I was in the Arctic right before, right before, yeah, I just came back from Svalbard, which
is-
Where's that?
It's in the Arctic Circle.
So it's like the last point that there is an inhabited city, I mean it's a town, a really
tiny town before you get to the North Pole.
So it's like the only place that you can sort of set off in an expedition from the
North Pole or to the North Pole.
And it has some relationship with Norway, but it's not technically a part of Norway.
So you actually cross out of the border of Norway to get to Svalbard.
And there's one tiny town there that's mostly a coal mining town and scientific research,
but like it's crazy, like the sun never sets there.
So yeah.
Whoa.
You made any cool people there?
Oh yeah, the town was dope, I mean and you meet everybody within like the first 15 minutes
that you're there, because it's that tiny.
Oh shit.
So like we were up there, I sort of convinced my buddies to go and do a marathon in Svalbard,
which is like the northernmost marathon in the entire world.
And it's the only one with polar bear guards.
So they have like dudes with guns just like hanging out in just in case like marathon
runners get attacked by polar bears.
Is it one of those marathons where they swim and run?
No.
Or just run?
No, those exist, but I just thought it would be like a one of a kind bachelor party for
my buddy.
So yeah, I convinced him to come up to the Arctic Circle with me and we did our best
on the marathon, nobody got eaten by a polar bear, which is awesome.
I had a guy in here once that did one of those marathons.
Also eaten by a polar bear?
No, no, they were in the, where were they?
He was swimming across that channel between Russia and Alaska.
Can you do that?
Yeah, he swam across it.
There's like a little island in the middle.
Yeah, I've heard about that.
Isn't that like, don't they call that like tomorrow island or yesterday island?
Yes.
Yeah, yep.
It's like one of the only places in the world where I don't even, like I've descended
into the twilight zone even trying to figure out or to explain it.
So it's like the day moves forward, but it doesn't move forward on that island for some
reason.
Is that the deal?
I don't know what the exact, how, what the exact time difference is, but like that basically
if you, if you move from like this one part of land to this island that's I think less
than a mile away, the, the time changes by like eight hours or something crazy or maybe
12 hours.
I'm not sure, but it's like you're, you're definitely in the next day.
Yeah.
Was there anybody there to like greet him?
Yeah, there were some people, there's like a small village of people that live there,
like a very, very few people live there.
It's a very remote place, but apparently they, they get by.
I mean, this is, this is like one of the, you know, the, the sort of like dream projects
is to like just go to literally the most remote places on the world and the world and just
see what people do there.
What is the, what is the most remote place you've ever been?
Remote.
Remote's not really what you're going for, but.
Yeah.
I mean, I think maybe, maybe the Somali desert.
Oh shit.
Okay.
It certainly felt, it felt really remote.
You know, you're just far away from any metropolitan city center, but there was infrastructure
out there.
But you know, when, when we went out into the, the desert of Somaliland, it's like you're,
you're basically driving through wadis, which are these sort of dry river beds and there's
no infrastructure whatsoever.
So your driver just kind of has to know how the desert looks as far as I understand.
I mean, you know, I didn't speak enough Somali or any Somali to ask him exactly how he's
navigating.
But, but yeah, we were, we were in jeeps in a sort of armed convoy for like maybe eight
hours, no roads.
And then eventually just sort of came upon a nomad village and I was like this.
Did you chew any of that cat?
I did.
Did you really?
How was it?
It's pretty great.
What is it?
How does it make you feel?
It's like, okay, the best I could describe it, at least my experience with it is like,
it's like you have the energy of having drunk like 12 cups of coffee, except without any
of the anxiety.
Yeah.
So it's just like sort of mildly euphoric, you know, like a, like a maybe what I'd imagine
a low dose of MDMA would be like something like that.
But it's, yeah, it was, it was funny when I, when I took caught, I decided to, you know,
give it a try because I was, I was sort of finished up my work in Somaliland and I was
like, okay, well, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna get really high on cotton because I
deserve it.
That sounds awesome.
I was listening to Rick Strossman talk about how he was growing it in his yard.
Can you do that?
Apparently.
I don't know.
Well, it's interesting.
The plant's pretty interesting from an economic point of view too, because it's like, from
what I understand, like the, like cod has to be transported every day because it has
to be quite fresh for it to be psychoactive.
So, you know, in the middle of a desert, it's hard to get really green leaves.
And that's the first thing that you notice when you chew cod is you, you know, strip
some of the branches away and it's like, it's sort of really vibrant green chlorophyll
flavor.
Like, I mean, imagine biting a plant and that's exactly what it is.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
And then it turns your tongue like this vibrant neon green, but it kind of sneaks up on you.
Like, I went to this, this hotel that was in the area and I was like, all right, I'm
gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna eat a bunch of mildly hallucinogenic East African leaves and
just see what happens.
And so I was like, okay, um, you know, put like five leaves down and they say that you
have to eat like the leaves of 10 branches or so.
You don't actually eat them, right?
So it depends.
From what I understood, unless somebody was messing with me, which is totally possible,
in Yemen, they tend to spit it and like they spit out the sort of mash.
It just keeps it stuck up there.
And then in Somalia, they tend to swallow the full mash.
Totally possible.
Somebody was just like messing with me and just trying to get me to eat leaves.
That is 100% possible.
But if it worked, it worked.
Yeah.
I mean, look, I ate a lot of leaves.
I, I kind of, I had a belly full of leaves.
And I think it took like maybe like 30 branches.
But since it snuck up so slowly, I was like, uh, like, you know, I've eaten maybe 20, you
know, 20 branches of this stuff.
And I was just sort of washing it down with non-alcoholic beer.
And it's not like it, it tastes good by any stretch of the imagination.
So I like came up with a strategy where I just sort of like mash the leaves together
into this like tight ball and then just like put them back in my, my jaw and sort of like
chew it as hard as I could and then like swallow it.
And then I just felt like an absolute idiot because I'm like, I've literally just been
eating leaves for like the last 20 minutes, maybe an hour.
I don't know.
So like, I was like, I'm going to go home.
So I went back to where I was staying.
And then I realized as I was sort of like looking at this like really gorgeous sunset
and having these, you know, remarkable feelings of, of, you know, warmth and gratitude towards
the universe, um, that I, I was still like eating the leaves.
Like I had never stopped and I was just like, well, that's, that's interesting.
And, uh, and then immediately I was just like, you know what, my clothes have no idea how
much I care about them.
And I was like, I got to wash my clothes.
And I, at this point was like, maybe I'm getting a little bit high right now because I've never
really thought about my clothes feelings towards me before, but at that point I was just sort
of tearing through branches of cotton doing laundry and, you know, sort of like firework
show of gratitude about, about, uh, you know, the world at large and at a certain point
I was like, while I was doing, you know, uh, uh, laundry high on, on East African leaves,
I like looked at myself in the mirror and I realized my whole mouth was just like slimer
green, like glowing green.
And I was like, I, I think the cot worked.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You see the photos and the videos of those guys that do it all the time and they're like
their whole jaw is like decaying.
Yeah.
And that's an interesting part about it too is, and so at least how it was explained to
me was that cot actually has a, a, a different effect to the longer you use it.
So you might start out with the sort of like, you know, this rapturous, almost hallucinogenic
experience, but then as you get addicted to it, it starts to be more of a sedative.
So when you see cot shacks and, you know, in Somalia is the only place that I've really
seen them, um, Somalia land, I should say, um, then, you know, what you're essentially
seeing is people like laying on these return mats and, you know, maybe they have like a
bottle of water or like some tea next to them, but they look strung out as hell.
And, and that was the exact opposite of my experience with it.
My experience was it was like super energetic and effusive and, and my mouth was green.
I was essentially just like, you know, a, a, a three year old just running around doing
laundry.
And, and chewing on these leaves.
I had a guy in here the other day was trying to teach me all about the stuff.
Cratom, I guess I've heard about this.
Yeah.
There's bars that are dedicated to it, right?
All around here.
This is a Florida thing, right?
I think so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I had a hippie give that to me one time and it was just, it was just weird murky water.
Yeah.
I don't know what it is, but a lot of like recovering alcoholics and a lot of recovering
opioid addicts sometimes use it.
And I guess it helps them sort of like kick the alcohol or the pills they were taking
before.
Yeah.
I've heard about that.
Cause it's like, has a similar effect to alcohol, but this guy was also telling me
that it has a very similar effect to Adderall.
He's like, I drink it with my coffee and it makes me like super charged.
It's like drinking 20 cups of coffee.
Oh, was this, was this the guy that was on the podcast?
No, he was, he was not on a podcast, but he was, uh, he was here with one of my
guests and he was telling me about it.
I guess it's like, he has a crad on business.
He was trying to teach me all about it.
Isn't, isn't there also like a Kava bar deal out here?
Kava.
Yeah.
I think it's the same thing.
Is it?
I have no idea.
I'm not sure.
Cause Kava is like, is from the South Pacific somewhere.
Uh, I think it's like, uh, cure body is, is like one of the main places that they
have it.
And I, from what I understand anyway, it's like a root that, that used to be sort
of like chewed up and then you would like, like, like, I think they had like kids
that would like chew it up and then spit it out.
And then you kind of drink this water out of shells.
So as, as the drug would take effect, you'd like, um, you'd be like, oh, I'm
two, three shells in, and, and then, you know, suddenly be, um, you know, impermeable
to pain.
I have no idea.
I've never tried it before.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's interesting.
I've never tried it either, but I'm going to definitely try that crowd on stuff.
Um, yeah.
Anyways, so thanks for coming.
Yeah.
And, uh, tell people how you got into this journey of traveling all over the world
to these non-existent states or nations.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, and I, I don't actually know the right word either.
Um, like I, I should.
I should know about neutral zones, right?
I would just say like unrecognized countries at this point.
Um, and after like studying it for five years, I was just like, I don't think I've
gotten any further to like understanding.
Like, like I, I did a bad job at research.
Yeah.
Um, I should, I should know more about this.
Um, you started out working in intelligence.
Yeah.
Briefly.
How did you get into intelligence?
This is super weird.
Um, oh, so yeah.
I'm, I'm Eric Zuleger.
Um, I'm, yeah, tell everybody who you are.
I'm a, I'm a writer.
I'm a, I'm an author and, uh, and I've got a, got a book out today, um, called, uh,
you are not here travels through countries that don't exist.
So basically I spent a year or the poster poster.
Here it is.
Yeah.
People see it.
Let's see.
Up a little bit.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Yeah.
You are not here travels through countries that don't exist.
That's right.
What is the picture?
Um, the picture, uh, was, was done by, uh, by Arabuza of Aparat studios in, uh, in
Kosovo, and it's kind of like an amalgamation of various landmarks and the,
the five unrecognized nations that I went to.
So down here, we've got, uh, the, the Citadel, which is, uh, uh, an old, old, uh,
monument in, um, uh, the center of, of Erbil, which is the capital of Iraqi
Kurdistan.
Um, we've got, uh, a MiG jet from Somali land.
Um, this is some, some stuff from Kosovo.
Uh, we got little, little bits from Libra land here.
Um, but yeah, that's, that's cool.
Yeah.
We kind of wanted to go for like a, a, a Where's Waldo vibe.
Okay.
I like it.
Very few people are going for the Where's Waldo vibe these days.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, I, um, I, I decided to, to write the book, um, because I, I,
just kind of followed a really dumb question that, uh, that I came across
while I was working briefly as, as an intelligence analyst.
Um, and, uh, yeah, I like, I got that job in, in potentially one of the
stranger ways that one gets a job.
Um, basically I, I had been a Peace Corps volunteer before, uh, and I had
always been a writer, so I was working mostly.
Peace Corps volunteer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Peace Corps, Albania 2011, 2013.
Yeah.
Well, they, they sent me to, uh, to Northern Albania.
Um, I was in a, uh, a small, small town called Byram Surrey.
Shout out Byram Surrey.
Um, uh, in, in the district of Tripoya.
So like the, the, the claim to fame of that area is that like the bad guys
in the movie Taken were from Tripoya.
Um, yeah.
And, uh, I mean, it's, it's a beautiful area in, in Albania, but it
doesn't have, have somewhat of a reputation for, for being the seat of
more traditional Albanian culture, but also there's, they've had an issue
with organized crime there too.
And so they decided, you know, they need to send American Peace Corps
volunteers there to, to make sure that everybody stays nice and peaceful.
Well, it's interesting you transitioned from that into not the CIA, but you
worked for a, uh, contractor of the CIA, right?
They weren't a contractor.
No.
So like what they were was a, a geopolitical forecasting company.
So, like Stratfor?
Yeah.
Just like them.
Mm hmm.
Just like them.
Uh, so what, what happened was while I was in, while I was in the Peace Corps, I,
uh, you know, I had, I had come out of, of university with a degree in theater.
Um, and as soon as you leave, uh, university with a degree in theater,
you're like, that was a mess.
It was a mistake.
It was an error for me to get a degree in theater.
Like there are zero people out here.
Zero crossover.
Nobody wants me to do two contrasting monologues.
Um, nobody, nobody wants to know about Shakespeare.
So I, I should probably go and go and get some skills.
Um, and so I went to Albania.
Uh, and, uh, you know, while I was there, I was, I was still writing, um, I was,
I was producing plays that were going back to the States and they were, they
were kind of like live blogs that were performed back in the States.
And then the money would come over to Albania and we'd started to like a
mobile library out there in, in Tripoya.
Um, but as they started doing more like nonfiction stuff, I was like also
reading a lot more nonfiction.
And so guys like Christopher Hedges and, uh, Sebastian Younger, and I read
this one fantastic book about like big wave surfing called, uh, the wave.
I can't remember who it's by.
Have you ever heard of it?
No.
Oh, it's awesome.
Um, and like, I never, you know, you're, you're fairly starved for books in
the peace courts, like the library has what the library has.
So, you know, what did you learn from the big wave surfing book?
Well, it was, I, because I'm not, I'm not a surfer.
I'm pretty, pretty well an indoor, indoor child.
Um, uh, and, uh, I, I found it like really engrossing and I was sort of
struck by this journalist who was following these big wave surfers who
were basically taking their own lives and their own hands and nobody could
quite understand why they were doing this.
It's like, you know, if you, if you don't, if you're not successful on
this hundred foot wave, like you'll either die or, or be injured greatly.
And the book was largely about like, why do people take these tremendous risks?
Um, and, and what I found in that book was, you know, that it was uniquely
meaningful to them.
Uh, and, and that the, uh, you know, the proximity to danger was, was inspiring
life affirming to not only to, to them as athletes, but, but to the community
around them.
And so as I was reading that, I was also reading, like I said, Christopher
Hedges and Sebastian Younger, all these like incredible, like geopolitical
writers and, and work correspondence.
And I was thinking that like, well, journalism felt, especially international
journalism seemed a lot like the, the sort of like big wave surfing of writing.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, and, and also I was sort of coming into a time where I was
thinking like, I have a certain amount of skills and then this sort of like weird
Venn diagram of like, you know, um, wanting to go to places that are a bit
more unusual, um, being decent at putting a sentence together.
Um, and being interested in history.
It's like, how can, how can I be the most useful writer possible?
And I didn't think that, that, you know, writing a, a, an American
realist play was going to be the most useful thing for me to do with my skills.
So I was like, okay, well, I want to start being an international journalist.
Um, and so I, I basically knocked on the doors of a bunch of journalists and I
was like, how do you do this?
Like what, how does, how does one do any of this?
And who'd you talk to?
Um, I talked to a couple of people who were reporting in, I think it was Israel.
And, um, a couple of Middle Eastern journalists.
This was like over 10 years ago now.
Um, but basically a lot of the, the feedback that I got from them was just
like, just go, you know, just, just, just go and start reporting.
And, and, you know, at this time, uh, Syria was, was the, the, the crisis
that, that everybody was, was writing about.
And I had some understanding of, of Turkey.
And I was like, well, it seems like a reasonable thing to do, to, to go, uh,
go throughout Turkey and just try and get some, some stories sold.
Um, but of course, meanwhile, like I had to save up some money to like, you
know, go, go write in Turkey for a little bit.
Um, so I, I got myself a job as like, uh, the head camp counselor to summer camp
in Boston and, uh, because I, I, you know, in the Peace Corps, I had education
training and, and then I worked in special ed for a little bit.
So, you know, I could, I can, I could run a summer camp.
Okay.
Again, I can tell people to tie their shoes and, and, and stop running.
Boy, boy can I really prepared me for work, man, prepared me for war zones, man.
Really, I've seen, I've seen some, some shit you wouldn't believe.
Yeah.
Some literal shit.
That's exactly what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
So while I'm, while I'm at the summer camp in Boston, um, I'm kind of like, you
know, getting my ducks in a row and I have this, this whole trip planned out
where I'm going to work my way down to, to the border of Turkey and, and, and
Syria and I'm, and I'm kind of, you know, considering, um, how I want to, how, how
I want to write about this kind of stuff.
And, and I'm realizing that, well, in a certain way, there are a lot of, uh,
there are a lot of good-hearted journalists and, and especially Western
journalists who are going into these places, um, to, you know, cover conflict.
Um, but sometimes that also ends up with them in the way of conflict and, and
potentially making a dangerous situation for them, making it a dangerous
situation for other reporters on the ground.
And so since I was just sort of starting out and, and learning to write
from these areas, I was like, I don't really want to talk about the conflict
directly.
I want to write about stuff that was on the side of it.
I wanted to, to, uh, to maybe write human interest stories about things that
were not getting covered because the war was the story.
That's always the most interesting stuff because everybody focuses on
like the big thing.
Yeah.
And it's like, I think that, um, you know, warfare, uh, as, as it is now, uh, as
it probably always is, is like, it's so, it's so fascinating to people and it,
it gobbles up so much of the news cycle that it's easy for people to forget that
there are just, you know, real people having normal days and, and, you know,
struggling through life and, you know, getting up and cooking eggs for their
kids and, and complaining about work, even though a couple of miles down the
road, there's, you know, bombs going off.
And I think that that sort of, you know, parallel universes are pretty
interesting to me parallel universes, subcultures, and the fact that like they
can just exist right next door to you.
And, and you would never know.
Um, I've always found that, that kind of thing.
Fascinating.
Yeah, that is, that is very fascinating.
That's what, you know, that's what I like.
That's something like the best documentaries that I find on, on YouTube
or stuff that like when people are just like picking up rocks and looking
under rocks and finding the things that like no one's shined a light on before.
And like, even if they just follow like a small group of people and what their
lives are like, you know, it's maybe affected by like the bigger picture,
whether it be a war or a genocide or something like that, but just like seeing
how their lives are.
Did you ever see, you may have even called it out on the show or had them as
a guest, but you ever see love and saucers?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The guy who made that documentary in incredible, incredible work.
I mean, it's like, that's beautiful.
That was a beautifully shot film.
100%.
And I thought it was, it was incredible because it's like one where we're
taking Brad Abrams, that's right.
I've heard him on a couple of different things and it's like, takes the subject
so seriously, like he's not, you know, sort of like, there's no, there's no
snickering at the subject.
Um, you know, this is, uh, so for those of you who don't know, like, uh,
love and saucers is, is, uh, it's a documentary about this, this guy who
feels that he had a, uh, relationship with an alien or throughout his entire
virginity to an alien.
Correct.
And then he is a painter.
So he like kept painting this alien for basically his entire life.
And does he live like Brooklyn or something?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so it's like, I don't know if it's Brooklyn, but it's somewhere around there.
Yeah.
So then it was like his first art show and, and like, you know, these are the
neighbors that you pass in the street every day.
Like people are, are quietly involved in, in their own galaxies.
And, you know, it's, it's amazing.
If you ask the right question, you can, you can turn the key and, and suddenly
like be involved in that.
Um, so that, that has always been like, you know, these are the best stories
as far as I'm concerned.
That's one of those things that, you know, that I think about too is like that
guy, like that guy truly believed that happened to him.
Like if you watch that movie, it's like a 30 minute movie.
He truly believes that happened to him.
I mean, he talks about every little detail and paints all these beautiful
pictures of these like hybrid human aliens that like took him into the woods
and fucked him.
Yeah.
Yep.
Mm hmm.
And like the, the, the alien had real human tits, real nice set of tits and like.
The large breasted alien is like a prominent figure of that film.
He impregnated the alien and gave him babies or gave, he gave her babies and like, man.
Years ago I was doing, I was doing a story that was killed.
Sadly, I was doing a thing about, about UFOs and I went to like these three
different UFO things in Los Angeles and I went to this like abductee support
group that happened like randomly every, you know, every like third Saturday and
Marina Del Rey.
Um, and it was, and it was just like in a random strip mall.
And for some reason I had to like pay $5 to go into a support group.
But I think it was because like some, you know, a fancy alien guy was there.
Um, I can't remember what his name was, but he.
Fancy alien guy.
That's great.
He was, he was the dude who was like the, one of the leading experts in like
removing alien implants.
Um, but he was a podiatrist and shockingly every implant that he
removed was from the foot.
Hmm.
Um, anyway, I saw him talk.
Um, but like, you know, people would get up and they, they would sort of say
their piece and at a certain point, you know, somebody was like, okay, well, how
many people have been abducted in this room?
And, you know, it's a room of like maybe 80 people.
And I figured, you know, 12 hands would go up and then it's like, I was the
weird one because like I, I mean, you know, at this point have not been abducted
by an alien still, still to this day.
My working theory on alien, have you, you're familiar with John Mack?
My working theory on the alien abduction thing is that some people, like a certain
percentage, maybe 1% or less of the human population has like something, uh, uh,
an advanced version of their brain.
Some people think it's the basal ganglia that lets them tap in to like another
dimension a little bit.
Like they, they're able to receive signals, right?
Like, like similar to a radio antenna where they can somehow receive signals
from elsewhere sometimes.
Like when you think of some people who talk about, they see ghosts or like they
see certain things, whether they're ghosts or not, or aliens.
Like I think that might be something when you're talking about this guy, uh,
David Huggins, the old guy who talked about, uh, fucking the aliens.
That's right.
Yeah.
I think it, that's might be what it is.
It might be something in their brain that they're actually experiencing.
And I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's real from another dimension,
or if it's all just hallucinations in their mind, or it's like, it's like the
whole DMT thing.
Like when you take DMT and you go to that, that world with the dancing.
Yeah.
The electronic, machine, machine, whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
When you go there, like, are those elves real?
Or are they in your head?
Well, look at reality.
Yeah.
Reality is all in your head.
It's all a construct of your senses.
So that's, that's the, that's kind of like how I think about it right now.
Well, it's like my working theory.
Your, your, your brain is, is a reality generating machine.
And, and then on top of that, or, or sometimes like, you know, the, the,
the pathway in is like, you know, what are the things that you really believe?
And, and it's amazing how like something as ephemeral as like what you believe,
it has real world effects, you know, like that guy believed that he had a
hybrid alien child, like try and convince him that he's wrong.
This is not that dissimilar from somebody in an unrecognized nation or
somebody in a recognized nation saying, you know, this place still exists.
Like we're, no matter what's, no matter what you tell me, I, like, this is
the best country in the world.
I have a, you know, an absolute religious belief about this thing.
And, and one of the things that I find fascinating is how that, that abstraction
can be leveraged to, to change how people behave, you know.
Obviously, believing in aliens and believing in countries are totally different
things, but there is this, this human mechanism for generating beliefs about
how their realities work that is, is one, it's able to be manipulated.
And, and two, it's, it's deeply important to us collaborating with one another.
You know, cause like when, when I was at the alien abductee, like support group,
you know, afterwards, honestly, I think the most fascinating part about the whole
thing was like afterwards, like all of these alien abductees went out to Denny's
together and it's like, yeah, I, and I'm like, I, I felt myself like so sort of
like glad for them that like these people could like hang out and have a
moons over my hammy and like talk about their abduction experiences.
Like, you know, they have community and, and they had this shared lexicon and,
and that, you know, was able to, to bring them together.
Like it may not make sense for, for all of us.
That's fine.
But like they were certainly like together in their own belief structure.
After, after that thing, I went up, man, you get some wild stuff in meetup.com.
Yeah, it's cheaper than a movie.
Just go into the depths of meetup.com and you'll find some.
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
So I went to an alien summoning from meetup.com.
Okay.
Summoning.
Summoning.
Yeah.
I learned how to summon.
Where was this?
It was a park in, in Los Angeles.
And, and now when you're imagining a UFO summoning, are you thinking about it at night?
Probably.
Noon.
Really?
In July.
Very hot day.
Um, and so I walked up, I pulled my buddies along with me to, to this thing.
So I was like, guys were.
You're more people to show up at noon.
Well, it's just like, guys, we're going to go to an alien summoning.
So.
Did you film it?
No, I didn't.
I, yeah, I'm, I'm a, I'm a writer.
I'm not technical at all.
Um, but, uh, we, I showed up and, you know, there's, there's a lot more people there
than I thought it was going to be.
It was like, maybe like 30, 40 people in this park.
Um, really hot day.
And, um, I, you know, I was always just like, pretty honest about people.
And I go, Hey, I'm, I'm, I'm a journalist working on a project here.
And then they're like, Oh, great.
That's awesome.
You should talk to our science lead.
And I'm like, okay, cool.
Who, who's the science lead?
And they're like, that's Hans.
And so this guy named Hans comes over.
Um, and, uh, and he's like, I got to show you the, the, the book of, of UFOs.
And I was like, okay, sweet, let's look at the book of UFOs.
And he like opened up these, this like a bunch of like pixelated, highly
pixelated photos and he was like, see that, that's a balloon.
That's not a UFO, but that is a UFO.
And then you just flip the page and be like, balloon UFO.
And then you flip the page and be like, that's a UFO pretending to be a balloon.
And I'm like, Hans, what kind of doctor are you?
He's like, I'm a dentist and I'm like, I'm like, I'm, I'm, I'm having, I'm having
less confidence in this summoning.
And, and he's like, we'll just wait for the summoner to get here.
I'm like, okay, sweet.
He's going to teach everybody how to, how to summon.
So I was like, this sounds, this sounds great.
No stuff, you know, that's a, that's a skill that's a little bit better than
the theater major.
Um, so everybody in the park kind of comes up around this, this summoner,
um, the summoner and, uh, he's like, okay, this is a three step process.
I like, okay, sweet.
And he's like, first you pick a point in the sky.
Everybody just, you know, 40, 30 people, just like in the middle of a park in
July, just like looking at this guy.
He's like, okay, now telepathically bring aliens to you.
And then you just repeat that until they come.
I was like, step two should have had more steps.
I feel like it was, I'm like, and, and like, you know, you, you got to try.
So you're just like standing in a field with like all of these people just sort
of staring at the sky.
And then eventually somebody will just say like, oh, there's one, there's one.
And then the crowd will just like rush over to somewhere else in the field and
like point at something in the sky.
And everybody's just like trying to like, you know, see whatever they're seeing.
And then it would happen again somewhere else.
And it's like, I have no idea.
I didn't, I mean, I, did you see anything?
I have no idea.
I, I, I, nothing that I would define, define as UFO.
Right.
And, and to add insult to injury, there was definitely a birthday party going
on in the park and like some balloons totally flew away.
And I was like, realized that that had happened.
I'm like, I think it's probably, probably time to go home from the summoning.
Yeah.
But it's like, you know, convince those people that, that they're wrong.
Like, no, they're like, that's, that's their, clearly it's their community.
And it's, it's also something that they feel passionate about.
And it's, it gives them some kind of place and understanding in the universe.
Right.
Literally the universe for them.
And I mean, who am I to, to tell them that that's, that's not a real thing.
Right.
Yeah.
There's some wacky people out there, man.
And, you know, that it's, they're beneficial to the government when they want to cover
up or use false information to, to either cover up real stories or push narratives
that they want.
They can easily use these people as like a.
Well, it's like, you know, one of the, one of the things that I always think about
with like, with these sort of like broad sweeping movements, like, and especially
how, how media often works is like, you, the, the loudest voices are generally
like not the most informed voices.
Yes.
Right.
And they're the most extreme.
Exactly.
Like, you know, not to get super political, but like the image that we have
of January 6th is who?
Like the QAnon shaman.
Yeah.
It's the dude with the dude with horns on his head.
Yeah.
Um, you know, pitch perfect.
Um, and, and when you have this image to collect an entire group of people under,
you know, oh, it's like, oh, you're going to be like that crazy person.
Then it becomes really easy to discount anything that, that might be a legitimate
complaint on either side.
Yeah.
And, and I have always like, that's, that's one of the reasons that I always,
that I thought it was interesting to genuinely go to places to find out what's
actually happening on the ground.
Um, because there's only so much information that we get in the United States.
Um, and, and oftentimes it's so salacious.
It's so sort of filled with, with fear and with, um, with anger that it's hard
to understand that there are, there are real people who are, are actually living
lives in these places.
Um, and that was, that was kind of the goal when I, when I wanted to go to Turkey
in the first place, um, was to, to find maybe some of the more quiet stories.
Um, and, uh, and then I didn't end up going to Turkey because they had a coup.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
So this was back during, um, I can't remember what year it was.
Was it 2016?
Must have been.
I thought it was more recent than that.
No.
Hmm.
Was this the fake coup?
I have no idea if it was fake or not.
It was a, it was a, um, uh, I, I know that they had, uh, while I was, while I was
working on the, uh, working at the summer camp there, uh, there was, it's like, you
know, telling kids not to run and like listening to reports about how there were
like tanks in the street of, of Ankara and, and Istanbul.
Um, and at that point I was like, well, shit, like I have a ticket to, I have a
ticket to Istanbul pretty soon and I didn't quite know, uh, what I should do
with that because I was like this, you know, I specifically didn't want to put
myself into, uh, into a situation where, where I'd be a liability for the community
or, um, like that I would, I would get myself like, you know, in, uh, into a
situation that I couldn't get out of just because I was trying to learn how to be
a journalist.
And so I was, I was talking to my folks about it.
My, my dad is, was, uh, close with this, this geopolitical forecaster guy.
Um, I'll call him Frank.
Uh, your dad was close with him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was close to them.
Uh, well, they were like pen pals.
He was like, I like your geopolitics.
And then the guy was like, thanks, I'm going to keep.
I like your geopolitics.
That is like the most great compliment.
It's like the most dad compliment ever.
Like everybody's dad, once they get old enough, they're like, you know, I
really like the, either the civil war or war war two or my dad is World War
One.
Okay.
So, so yeah, he's mad stoked on geopolitics.
So your dad introduced you to Frank.
Yeah.
He introduced me to Frank and he's like, well, don't you write Frank and, and
see what Frank says.
Um, so I wrote him and, uh, I had heard that Frank thought this was a terrible
idea and I was like, okay, well, he thought what was a terrible idea.
Me going to Turkey.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I was like, uh, hey Frank, that's me, Eric.
Um, uh, I hear you think it's a bad idea for me to go to Turkey.
So I still want to like learn to write about the Middle East and, and, you know,
what's going on.
And I kind of had in the back of my mind that I wanted to do something about
travel.
Um, and, uh, I was thinking about maybe trying to do like a non political
travel log of the Middle East, which I realized immediately was fucking impossible.
It's like, that's like trying to write like Moby Dick without ever using the
word whale or like the letter A.
Um, so I was like, I told him, you know, these ideas and then he wrote me back
and he was like, well, here's why you're going to end up in Turkish prison.
And, uh, you're not going to make it.
And I'm like, oh, well, okay.
Well, if you look back to my first letter, I said, what should I do?
And then Frank was like, okay, go to Lebanon and I'll coach you.
And I was like, okay, I mean, I don't know what that means.
I've never met this old man, um, but sure.
Yeah, I'll buy a plane ticket to Lebanon and have this old man coach me.
Why not?
So I bought a plane ticket with my summer camp money, uh, to go to Beirut
and I was there for like a month and, uh, so I was like, you know, got to Beirut
to my hostel and I was like starting to freelance stories and, uh, and I emailed
Frank and I was like, Hey, I'm here, what do I do?
And he's like, okay, well, you got to go meet this, uh, meet this man
and he'll send a car for you.
And I was like, okay.
Wow, great.
This guy was connected.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe it seemed like it.
I was just, I was just, you know, but the eager beaver with a laptop.
So I would just like go and, and like, I just like went and met a random car
outside of a place called Burj Hamoud in Beirut and guy waved me down.
He didn't speak any English.
I didn't speak any Arabic or French.
And, and, uh, you know, we start driving on the outside of town.
I'm like this, like it's at that point I was like, this might have been
a poor choice for me.
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition,
exercise and sleep as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length
with doctors and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels
with powerful ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body,
but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called Sertuans.
Sertuans are called longevity genes because by activating them,
they support overall health and slow down aging related effects by
regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damaged DNA
and ramp up energy production in your brain, immune system and muscles.
Now, you can't take NAD plus as a supplement
because it's too big for the cells to absorb, but NMN directly converts to NAD
plus while resveratrol activates your Sertuans, which increases their attraction
for NAD. These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus
more than just NMN on its own.
Verso also publishes third party testing from each batch produced to absolutely
guarantee you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout
to save 15% off your entire order or go to ver.so forward slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E
right now. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
Like I'm already like five minutes in the car.
And at that point, I'm like, hmm, this might have been an error of judgment.
That was the point of no return.
Yeah, it was. But then he ended up dropping me off at this, this, you know,
this office park in a place called Junae.
And I went into this office and the guy was like, oh, you're from Frank, right?
And I'm like, yeah, yeah, I'm definitely from Frank.
And then he's like, well, so how is he?
And I'm like, he's, he's good. He's really good.
And he's like, okay, have a seat. I'm like, great.
So guy turned out to be a counterterrorism expert and he was just like talking
about counterterrorism, specifically the Islamic State at the time.
Do you work for any agencies?
I have no idea. He was just a guy in an office.
OK. I was just taking notes.
And at a certain point, he was like, do you have enough?
I'm like, totally. Yes, I do.
I have enough for Frank.
And then driver took me back and I was like, well, that was strange.
And then the next day, like not the next day,
probably like a week later, I went to go meet like a political scientist
at the American University of Beirut and sort of same thing happened.
How's Frank? He's good. How's his wife?
Like, I didn't know he had a wife, but she's great.
She's doing good.
So chatted with him for a long time.
And then the final interview was a guy who identified himself as a Lebanese
general, still have no idea.
And we talked about the Islamic State for a bit.
And then he kind of set me on my way.
And then I was like, well, this was a strange trip through Beirut.
And, you know, I got some articles published, met some good people.
And eventually I was like, hey, I want to keep like learning about this stuff
and writing about this stuff.
So like, what do I do now?
And Frank was like, OK, well, I'm going to train you to be a geopolitical
geopolitical geopolitical forecaster.
And so you're going to you're going to go through my training.
I was like, cool.
And then, you know, I got an email that day.
I was like, intelligence analyst position.
Intelligence, I know, which tells you like I would be the worst spy
because immediately as soon as I got that email, I was like, you know,
when I am, hey, mom, guess what?
You know, who's an intelligence analyst?
Don't tell anybody.
Yeah, right.
So but I mean, ultimately, like what the work sort of boiled down to
was like being a really advanced news reader, right?
So he he sort of trained us to have this working model of of the world.
And you you break that down into whatever the constraints and imperatives
of major nation states are.
And by major, I mean the people who sort of wield the dominant
economic, military, social media powers, right?
And so every nation has a certain amount of imperatives, things they have to do,
things that they're forced to do, and then they're constrained by certain things.
So I mean, you know, using the United States as an example, it's like,
well, the imperative is to maintain the ability to project power
across the Atlantic and the Pacific simultaneously.
Constraint might be something like dwindling middle class.
So economically, we might not be able to support that power projection
over a certain amount of time.
And so you can start to look at how a nation will behave based upon what
their imperatives are and what their constraints might be.
And what that ends up making is a model of the world where you have,
as he termed them, fault lines and flash points.
So certain areas of the world where there might be this tectonic shift of power,
where there there are these areas that if something is going to change
the power relationships in the world, a flash point, it will happen there.
So an example of this might be, you know, the the Bab Al-Mandab,
which is is near the Gulf of Aden.
So this is a big power corridor that it's where I think it's, you know,
last I heard is like 60 percent of the world's oil travels through to the Red Sea.
So, yeah, huge, like important choke point for energy.
So you're talking about like countries ambitions and what they're trying to do
and what the downside of that ambition is.
So like an example would be with that, like if you relate that to America,
us spending trillions of dollars on the military and the dwindling middle class
is what takes the downside of that.
Like we are we don't we have roads with potholes,
but we're spending 16 trillion dollars a year on the military.
Yeah, so we're it's it's less some it's less the things that are blocking us.
But the the things that are, yeah, like holding us back, right?
So we're we're constrained by, you know, if we have a dwindling middle class,
that also means that we have a dwindling tax base to pay into.
You know, military adventurism. Got it.
And so and, you know, some, in fact, a good deal of of like
geopolitical constraint is actually just damn geography.
You know, it's it's incredibly hard to fight a war in Afghanistan,
as as history has told us constantly.
And it's just because there's so many damn mountains.
Like it's Alexander the Great was turned back, Napoleon, Russia, the United States.
We have the best geography, right?
Well, I mean, best according to what?
Right, like because we're surrounded by the two the two oceans.
Yeah. So we've got I mean, we we have like I can't remember which geopolitical guy
called it this, but but he he called the United States
this sort of the idea of this inevitable empire, right?
And the idea was that we have we have so many natural features
that make us highly defensible.
You know, you've got the the Appalachian Appalachian.
I don't I'd say Appalachian in California.
Oh, we have those mountains over there.
We've got this robust system of of arable land and rivers,
which allows for incredible amounts of agriculture to happen right in the center
of our country, which is obviously highly defensible, huge lakes on top of us,
a damn desert beneath us, rocky mountains, bracketing everything.
So invading the United States is a genuinely like insane thing.
Right, right.
We're also all super heavily armed.
So like yet another reason, right?
I think I can't remember who it was.
I actually meant to look this look this up.
But I think it might have been Lincoln.
But he he said I'm not even going to attribute some some early president
who either had a powdered wig or a really cool beard,
said something about the fact that because the United States was so
blessed geographically, the the death of the U.S.
as a nation would never come from outside that it would always that would be by suicide.
I can't remember who said that.
But maybe you can find that quote goes hard.
That is a hard quote.
I know it sounds like it seems like what's going on in the last couple of years.
Internal division.
Yeah, internal division is is another constraint.
It's it's a geopolitical constraint, but you, you know, in in a society
that presumably permits and encourages freedom, you have to tolerate
an amount of internal division.
But as as you divide away the the singular vision of a nation, then
suddenly there's conflict that arises within it.
You know, everything is is ultimately a trade off.
Yeah.
And was it was it?
Oh, hell yeah.
It wasn't.
Yeah.
America will never be destroyed from the outside.
Oh, continue with Facebook.
Said Lincoln.
If we falter and lose our freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves.
Wow.
Lincoln.
Damn.
Abraham.
Barred.
Dude, I know they don't they don't give give Lincoln credit for for his his sick flow.
Have you have you seen that recent video of all those guys pledging
allegiance to Trump?
It was like two days ago.
That doesn't surprise me.
But no, it is terrifying.
It looks like it's like a giant warehouse and they're lined up.
They're lined up.
Where's the here's the video.
Look at this.
No, what?
Oh, this was a mago thing.
Oh, that is they did this as Trump wasn't like going into court.
What I have questions about this warehouse.
Like, where's the warehouse?
Look close out of it.
See if you can see some find some more context of on the tweet.
I'm just like, is there is there like a Kmart next door?
Yeah, maybe they've got read us too small.
But yeah, man, that's that's fucking crazy.
That's insane.
But this this is exactly the thing that that that like I find so fascinating
about about the idea of of nationalism, because nationalism is this this huge
abstraction and and, you know, what your nation is, is something that's
collectively generated by the people within the nation, right?
Like how you believe about whatever America is, somehow gels with how every
other American thinks about America.
And that creates the picture of our country, right?
It's something that we're all generating together.
But when you have such radically different visions of what that is, then
suddenly you can see a bifurcation of of the nation, or you can even see
sometimes the they use the term of Balkanization in reference to the Balkans,
right, where it's like it's almost a shattering into into various person groups.
Because people are aligning with whoever they feel their affinity group is.
And I mean, you know, tell the thing that I find fascinating, terrifying
about this is, is that it's verging on a religious belief.
Yes, like this is a religious belief.
Yes.
And I think that that people need to continually check themselves as like,
is my belief well founded, or is it a religious one?
And then the best sort of like rule of thumb for religious beliefs has always
been to me anyway.
Do I know what information could be provided to me that would make me
change my mind?
Right.
So if I say, you know, I believe in gravity, you know, I, right, I use it every
day, uh, haven't haven't floated once.
Yeah.
Uh, like, I mean, pretty convinced.
But if, you know, somebody is to, to come floating over to me and be like,
oh, gravity is bullshit, man.
I'd be like, man, that's pretty compelling.
Like, yeah, dude.
So, so it's like, you can have certainty to a certain extent, but at the point
that you're saying, no, absolutely not to these facts, absolutely not to reality
on the ground, then you have a religious belief.
Then the thing that's powering you is faith and your own personal identity.
Your own personal identity is so involved in what you think that you can be
manipulated dramatically.
What was the quote you said?
You said, uh, the number one revolutionary in the revolution becomes the
staunchest conservative the day after the revolution.
That's right.
Yeah.
Because now they own the state.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's, it's like people when, and I think that there's this sort of
romanticized idea of, of, of revolution in that respect too.
It's like, and then, you know, there's the, there's the sort of musical
theater version of, of, you know, dude waving a flag and, and, you know, then
suddenly everybody's equal.
But the question is equal according to who, right?
So the, the, the revolutionary, the day after the revolution now controls what
equality is now they control what freedom is.
They're controlling what the abstraction is.
And so we're, if we're all going to agree on this consensus reality, how are
we going to generate that consensus?
And that's, that's ultimately what statecraft is about is I, I don't know
if definitely not Lincoln, but somebody said, I can't just keep leaning on
Lincoln this whole time.
Um, but somebody said that, that, you know, statecraft is all about.
It's the, the, the generation of consent by the governed.
Right.
And so there's a lot of ways to generate consent amongst the governed.
Like right now we're, we're the governed, you know, in, in the United States anyway.
So somebody can come in this room and, and put a gun to our heads and, and, you
know, make us participate in a, a phony voting, you know, uh, charade.
Cool.
Do they have our consent?
Well, yeah, I don't want to get shot.
Like, yeah, super.
You do have my consent.
Yeah.
Um, another way to do it and the way that at least we in the United States
have settled upon doing it is, uh, through representative government and
representative government is, is how we, uh, go about, you know, doing the
tasks of governance, which is identifying problems, creating paths to
solving those problems and then enacting those, those solutions.
Right.
Um, but the belief in the United States is that if we sort of crowdsource the
idea for how best to move forward as a nation, then we'll come up with not
only a better solution, but it will be fully supported by everybody who gave
their opinion on that thing.
Now that's the ideal version of it, whether it works that way or not, you
know, who knows, um, uh, the most, some of the most successful countries, you
know, monetarily, um, and military power wise right now are certainly not
democracies.
Right.
You know, they're, they're autocracies.
Right.
And Andy boosted Monte explained this to me beautifully in this, uh, this
diagram he calls the creation of a state pyramid where he says the bot, the
foundational explain that.
So yeah.
So he says the foundation of the pyramid, the bottom level of the pyramid is
individualism and that's basically whatever I hunt, I eat, um, every man for
himself.
Yeah.
The second level is tribalism and that's where four, eight or 12 of us
were a tribe.
I may be a good hunter.
You may be a good gatherer.
Uh, I go out and hunt the food.
You, you have your garden and we share in our resources.
Right.
I can't go into your house, club you over the head and drag your wife out
because we have these rules, right?
Cause we're this own little, we're a little tribe.
So we've given up certain freedoms.
Right.
I can't just go take your wife.
Above that is the creation of a state where there's a governing body or people
that you elect to basically run this nation or state or whatever.
And that could be a collection of resources like taxes to have.
So you have clean water, you have food that's safe to eat, you have electricity.
And basically what he was getting at is that we have to be okay with giving up
certain freedoms.
Yeah.
For, for everything that we have.
And we were talking about the context of the conversation started out talking
about Snowden and talking about like privacy and stuff like that.
He's like, I'm willing to, I'm willing to his position on this, which I'm just
kind of coming around to, but I don't know what, what I feel about it.
He said that he was okay with, um, the government looking at the porn that I
watch or like looking at my browser history, if it's going to keep us safe from terrorists.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, it's, this is, I think the, uh, uh, sometimes called like the, uh,
the neo-Hobbesian point of view, right?
So the, the, the whole Hobbes thing is like, you know, and man is in his natural
state is, is, you know, this sort of feral creature that, that, you know, just loves
to, to kill and rape.
And, and then we, as we sort of ascend this, this pyramid, um, things get better
because we are able to sublimate these natural tendencies towards violence into
the state.
We, we give the state the monopoly on violence so that we can have order, right?
Um, and you know, that certainly makes sense.
Um, but the, it's kind of like the who, who watches the watchmen type of thing.
Right.
And it's like, how much, how much transparency one, do you want and two,
are you comfortable with?
Yeah.
I think one of the things he said was, uh, he asked me if I had kids and I was
like, yeah, he's like, do you tell your kids everything you do?
I've, I've heard that before.
I was like, no, he's like, yeah, cause you're trying to protect them.
Right.
But now that I have like the ability to like watch it and listen to it.
And I'm like, it's not the government's job to be my parent, right?
It's supposed to be for the people, by the people, like in the cert, they're
supposed to be the servants to us.
Yeah.
I mean, that's certainly the abstraction, right?
Yes.
Like that's, that's like, it's like, I'm sure you've probably seen, um, uh, seen
a video of, of somebody on YouTube being, you know, yelling at a cop being like,
I pay your salary.
How well does that go?
Right.
You know, what they did, I don't imagine never goes good.
It rarely, yeah.
At no point is, is, you know, the, the, the police officer who's the sort of like
emissary of the state at that point, right?
Like, oh man, I, sorry about that.
Yeah.
Right.
Like, uh, that, that, like, yes, that, that person certainly believes that, but
in point of fact, is that actually happening?
I mean, not if they end up in handcuffs and with a black eye, right?
Right.
Um, I mean, it's, that's, that to me is the, the, the fascinating thing about,
about statecraft in general is like, how, how do different places navigate this
way of creating consent amongst the governed?
Because it's, it's, it's a cultural issue.
It's a, uh, it's a geographic issue.
It's a historical issue.
Um, so I live in Albania.
I live in, in Toronto, Albania, um, uh, cause you know, after Peace Corps, I just
went pro, um, and, uh, and so I've lived there for like, on and off for, for
probably four, four years altogether.
And at a certain point I was, I was in an Albanian art gallery.
I was looking at old pieces of artwork and paintings and a lot of it is this sort
of like Soviet realist stuff because Albania was, was, uh, one of his world's
first atheist state, um, because religion was outlawed there for 50 years.
Um, and two was under a sort of brutal, brutal North Korean style dictatorship
under a guy named Enver Hoja.
Um, but one of the things that I found really interesting was in a lot of the
Albanian paintings, most of the Albanian paintings, the people with rifles were
never painted pointing their rifles up.
They were always painted pointing them either straight or down.
And I started thinking about that.
And because I think of, you know, Western statues and, and artwork that I've
seen in the United States.
And then I realized, well, Albania is a mountainous country.
People weren't pointing their rifles up.
They were pointing their rifles down when they were defending
against the Ottoman empire.
Oh, wow.
And so the geography determined a lot about how the governmental structure
ended up, the geography and the culture.
Um, you know, even though the, the Balkan peninsula is sort of full of all
of these Slavic languages and Slavic people, Albanians are not Slavic.
Their language is not Slavic.
It forms its own branch of the Indo-European language tree.
And they're also surrounded by mountains.
So isolationism seemed to be this, this, you know, way of generating
consent amongst the govern there, because they were already not only
geographically isolated, but they're culturally isolated.
And so in the United States, we have, you know, uh, this sort of frontier
culture, because for the dominant part of our history, we were moving
west until we ran out of west to move, right?
So the geography determined who ended up being most successful and then
who ended up generating the culture that was propagated throughout our,
our country, right?
Interesting.
You know, you can tell a lot about a country based upon the people that are
their heroes, you know, I mean, who are some American heroes?
Like when you, when you think about like the people that, that individuals
point to and say, it's like, oh, that's, that's an American hero right there.
Right.
Probably people with guns.
Yeah.
Either that or, or people who are like, it's like, you know, people
who are leading freedom movements, you know, Martin Luther King, Jr.
Right.
Martin, yep, yep.
John Wayne.
Hmm.
John, I was going to say John Wayne.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He said, I feel like he's the main one.
Right.
Yeah.
Or people, or people who died Rosa Parks, you know, John F.
Kennedy, people who are going their own way.
Like we, we, and I don't, I think that, that goes, you know, we in the United
States and, and I mean, for every country, it's hard to see the water
that you swim in.
Um, and so we don't, we take for granted what a, um, an individualistic
culture we are.
Um, there's certainly Albania as a more collectivist culture.
And that's not just because of, of, uh, the fact that, that communism was,
was, you know, deeply embedded in their history, but it's, it's because, you
know, their, their family units are remarkably.
Is that Hillary Clinton?
No, it is.
What, what am I looking at here?
It's more like Bill.
Oh, I was looking at American heroes and looking at photos.
Oh, look at all those American heroes.
Look at all these powdered wigs.
Yeah.
Einstein.
Einstein was not American.
He, he was, as far as I know, I might have to go check in history about that.
Oh, it's hilarious.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Uh, so yeah, I mean, uh, I feel like, where are we?
We get off to, um, oh, Lebanon, Lebanon.
Well, no, I want to go back.
I want, yeah, you were in Lebanon.
What were we talking about?
We were, you were in Lebanon and, uh, that was in Beirut.
I was just meeting, oh, oh, geopolitics.
Frank was like, come back and be an intelligence analyst.
Yeah.
So I did that.
Um, it was, I was actually, by the way, Frank is a pseudonymous name.
It is a pseudonymous name.
Um, and if you Google around about me, you'll figure out who it is.
Um, you did a amazing podcast.
Who was the guy's podcast you did?
Chris Ryan.
Yeah.
And Chris Ryan said he was going to fuck Frank's wife.
God damn it.
Um, so much for keeping it pseudonymous.
He's a, that goes, I'm going to be dead by noon.
Nice knowing you, Danny.
Um, if my book comes out, uh, you're not here, travels to the
countries that don't exist and I died, I hope it sells well.
You're not here.
Travels through countries that don't exist.
Um, I can, I can cut that out if you want me to.
I'd appreciate it.
No, I don't know.
Keep it in if you like it.
Um, so, uh, yeah.
So you're working for him now.
So I'm, I'm working for him.
Um, and basically in entails being, uh, just a, a very detailed news reader.
Yeah.
So what a working day is like.
I had to get up really early in the morning.
So I was up at like four in the morning.
I was at living in Los Angeles at this point in an art colony, which is a
very weird place to be a, a, an intelligence analyst.
Art colony.
Yeah.
Brewery art colony and, and he's, dude, it's like, it's like, uh, the
musical rent, but like so much dirtier.
Wow.
Yeah.
Um, it was, uh, it was cool.
Like you get like a big old, big old art warehouse and then it's like, you
know, build your own walls and, and you know, do, do really, really edgy artwork.
Yeah.
You all say fuck a lot.
Los Angeles is a strange place.
Yeah.
Man, almost as strange as Miami, but not quite.
I've never been to Miami.
So yeah, I've never been.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
I, I, it's such a great place.
I literally, it's so close to the U S.
I, I, like, I, I just went to like my memory and I was like, what do I know about
Miami and like, I think a pit bull music video just started playing.
And, and that's it.
That's all I know about Miami really.
It's great.
Totally different animal than, than out here.
The traffic is almost as bad as LA might be worse sometimes.
I guess it's depending on the time of day, but it's very similar to LA.
It takes two hours to get, to drive two miles.
Yeah.
Sounds about right.
And everybody is Cuban.
It must be great sandwiches and awesome cars.
Beautiful, beautiful women, great cars, lots of rich people, lots of great food.
But just so many people packed into this tiny place.
It's a great place to go.
It's a great place to go for like a day or two.
That's not at all the, the, I mean, like I said, my stereotype is literally
the only pit bull music videos and, and Big Willie style.
Okay.
That is the, so anything outside of a music video, I have no concept.
You got to go man.
All the places you've been, you've never been to fucking Miami.
This is the first time I've been to Florida, man.
Yeah, yeah.
Wow.
I honestly, I haven't explored the U.S. that much.
I have spent most of, most of the last 10 years, you know, in, in well,
in unrecognized countries.
Right, right.
Um, can't blame you.
Yeah.
Um, but when we were training, I went out to Texas, um, which was like, so
training and like, I don't know, I got an email and it was like, okay,
you're coming out to training and I was like, okay, sweet.
It'll be like a weekend or something.
And it was like a month and I'm like, what?
And like, it was like the three notes.
Yeah.
There's three other people that I was training with, you know, to be an analyst.
Um, I feel like I should do this the entire time.
I mean, honestly.
Air quotes.
Yeah, air quotes.
I was a, I was a very, very advanced news reader and future guesser.
Um, learned a lot though.
I mean, fascinating, fascinating work.
Um, but like we were, you know, me and three other strangers who turned out to be
amazing, um, shout out to Cheyenne, Xander and Lawrence.
Um, great people.
So like we would stay in this like house in, in like suburbia outside of Austin.
And every day we were just sort of like power learned geopolitics and like had to
like read through this huge book about World War two.
And then, you know, we go over to Frank's ranch and, and, and he'd like hold globes
at us and be like, that's just the Philippines.
I'm like, oh, cool.
And he's like, well, it's a, it's a bayonet going into China.
And like then tell us like all of the history of the Philippines and, and what,
you know, America's geopolitical positioning around the Philippines was.
And we were just like trying to pack as much geopolitical knowledge into our heads
as possible.
And each one of us kind of got some area of the world to look at, right?
And so the goal of that was to take as much open source information about that
area, so publicly available information.
Um, and try to determine, uh, based upon the, uh, the constraints and
imperatives of that country, what might happen, um, what they might want to do
strategically, um, or, or what might, might occur to them, right?
So I, and, you know, after, after, you know, two whole weeks of, of learning
about geopolitics, I was like, yeah, my tinfoil hat was like firmly on.
I was like looking at Belarus and, and just, just dreaming about Alexander
Lukashenko at a certain point, I was just like, you know, Alexander Lukashenko
doesn't think about me nearly as much as I think about him, um, which is a shame.
And I was like, oh, okay.
So, you know, it's, uh, like Russia, uh, and, and Belarus, they're, they're
like right now anyway, they're like, you know, having these sort of weird war of
words, like I think Belarus was saying, you know, you're using us as a 10
million person human shield against, you know, uh, invasion from, from NATO
countries and stuff like that.
And then NATO or Russia was like, ah, shut up or something.
I can't remember the, that's the exact quote.
Right.
Vladimir Putin shut up.
Um, and so I was like, I was, you know, talking to, uh, uh, to Frank about this.
And he's like, well, like, what do you think is going to happen?
I'm like, um, like, are they going to fight or whatever?
He's like, no, I'm like, well, why aren't they?
And he's like, research it until you find out why.
And I was like, what, okay.
And so it just kept reading more and more.
And then you find out that like the energy infrastructure of Belarus is like
completely indivisible from Russian energy infrastructure.
Um, you know, there, there's oil there, but it's, it's unproven.
So it would take years and years for them to actually get that oil out of the ground.
So the constraint is they certainly can't break away from Russia.
They can't go, they can't have a war with Russia.
So why are they having this public war of words?
And at that point, that's when real analysis happens is you're, you're
looking at what is actually going on when you know what the constraints
and imperatives are.
Okay.
And so that was kind of the training area for me.
Um, it was just like, oh, you know, write up a report about Belarus.
Um, so I wrote, what was going on?
What'd you figure out?
I don't remember actually nothing.
Yeah.
And that's the other great thing about the, one of the wonderful things about
learning about, about, you know, geopolitical analysis is like most of the
time the world is not burning down.
Like most of the things don't mean a lot.
Um, I had the best example of this was, um, one day a colleague of mine sent me,
um, an article about, uh, I think it was Tajikistan and some guy had blown up
into Tajikistan and, uh, she was like, what do you think of this?
So it was like one line email and I was like, okay, so I started researching
Tajikistan and I was researching it for a week.
And then, uh, I was like, okay, well, you know, is there, is there some
relationship with the Taliban?
Is that happening or the, are they going through the Wakhan corridor?
Like what's, what was it?
Was it a bomb maker?
And then it turned out it was like a science teacher who accidentally
blew himself up like that, that the, and it's like, yeah, sometimes people
just accidentally blow themselves up.
Sometimes stuff just isn't that important.
And sometimes things are totally geopolitically irrelevant.
Right.
Um, and depending on how you look at the world, that can either be very
comforting or very not, because it could mean that nothing is, is significant.
You shouldn't worry about anything or it could mean that the most mundane
thing is deeply significant and you should worry about everything.
Right.
So I, I mean, for me anyway, at that time when I was doing that work, I was the opposite.
So as I was doing that work and in the book, um, I, I started out the book
writing about this time that I was, I was analyzing an Islamic State beheading
video and I was like trying to, I was trying to sort of like impress the boss.
Why are you analyzing that video?
So that video was, was, uh, it had, it had cropped up, um, at some point, um, like
it was, I think it came out in, in the Islamic State magazine.
It's called, I think it was called Dabak.
Um, but, you know, if it's just a regular video, them sort of talking about
the normal stuff, you know, then it's probably geopolitically irrelevant and
you can kind of toss it.
Um, but this one specifically was in Farsi.
Um, so it wasn't in Arabic and the, uh, people who were being beheaded were, uh,
in the uniforms anyway of, uh, the popular mobilization units who are, are Shia
backed or Iran back shield militias that operate in Iraq.
And so I was watching the video, uh, to see if there was a way of determining that
this was definitely an Islamic State message to Tehran, right?
And as I was watching this thing and, you know, realizing that I was, I was finding
myself becoming more and more paranoid and liking the world a whole lot less.
The more I studied warfare, I mean, you know, go figure.
Um, I was realizing that, that there's no way for me to actually determine this,
right?
Because yeah, like you can put those uniforms on anybody.
You can put that insignia on anybody.
Right.
Um, so does it mean that something's going to happen tomorrow?
Like is, is the Islamic State going to roll some tanks into Iran or not tanks?
Anyway, like, you know, uh, Toyota Hiluxes or like, are they going to, are they
going to do that?
Like probably not.
But it was like, that was the only thing that I had to analyze that day.
And, you know, you get on these cryptic phone calls and they're like, what
do you have?
And you have to like spit out this brief without like stumbling on a single
world word.
And, and by the end of the, my brief, they were like, nope, that's irrelevant.
Don't worry about it.
So like I had, you know, in my art colony in Los Angeles, I'd spend the
morning like watching, be heading videos and it wasn't even seven in the morning
yet, like my own, my coffee shop wasn't even open yet.
Before you had your coffee, those heads get cut off.
Yeah.
And so like, I was like, and I was, I remember like looking at, you know,
cause I definitely had like, like I leaned into the stereotype, like
out of yarn wall in my room.
It never really got to a yarn wall status.
I bought yarn, but I never like put anything up.
That was like two arts and crafts.
I know it.
I know.
I wish I had a picture of that, um, but, um, yeah, like I was looking at all
the maps on the, on the wall and I'd done a lot of traveling before and I
love traveling and I, like, I like liking the world.
And I realized as I was looking at now, after, you know, a couple of months
of just researching how the world was tearing itself apart, that I really
not only didn't like the world, but I was pretty afraid of it.
And, and that was not a great headspace to be in.
And at the same time, I was also like the worst person to sit next to it, a
bar, because I'd just be like, Oh, did you hear about these missiles?
Like, you know, you know about the range of that missile.
You ever hear about this World War one treaty?
It's like that nobody wants to sit next to that guy at a bar.
Right.
Um, so like, I had to, had to make a change.
Um, and, and fortunately it got fired like a month later.
So I would, but while I was looking in the Middle East, especially this is on
Islamic State at the time, you know, the, uh, the Kurds and Iraqi Kurdistan were
this enormous force and, and beating back the Islamic State out of, uh, uh, you
know, out of North, what is it?
Northeastern Iraq.
Right.
Um, and so they were using this political capital that they had at the time.
So this was in 2017 in order to launch a referendum on independence from Baghdad.
Right.
And so I had been reading about this area constantly and of all of the stories
that you're, that you, you read in the news, it's so rare that you find one
where you're like hopeful about it.
And it's like, and it's exciting where you're like, this is an independence movement.
Not only is it an independence movement, but it's a, it's one that's done through
basically democratic means.
Like it's, it's a new country that could potentially vote itself into existence.
Right.
And so as I started researching it, I was like, and you know, as I was done
watching the heading videos, I was like, you know, cause anytime you lose your job,
you're like, oh man, well, if I could do anything in the world, what would I do?
And I was like, I want to go see the referendum on independence in Erbil,
in, in Iraqi Kurdistan.
And so like I Googled jobs in Iraqi Kurdistan and I found a job as a third
grade teacher and teacher.
And so like two weeks later had a ticket to Northern Iraq.
Oh shit.
Yeah.
Teaching white English.
Uh, I was, so I was, I was basically third and fourth grade.
Um, in the book, I call it the Kurdistan International School, but it's a, it's a,
it's a Lebanese school system called Sabah's.
Um, and they, you know, put me up, gave me an apartment and, you know, uh,
and paid me okay for the area, but it was third, third grade, fourth grade, um,
social studies, homeroom, and, uh, in English.
By yourself.
Yeah.
Jesus.
I mean, there were other international teachers at the school, but yeah, just,
just went out there and that was like a great way to basically start
trying to, to figure out about, you know, trying to start writing about,
about things where it wasn't the world tearing itself apart.
It was, it was actually new things being created.
Um, but of course that didn't actually end up happening for, uh, for the Kurds
and in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Um, so while I was there, I was, uh, obviously teaching, but it was also
meeting, meeting other journalists and I'm talking to NGO workers.
Um, the, made great friends with, with some of the locals.
Um, and, you know, was watching and waiting as this, this vote for
independence was happening.
And it's amazing how the city, Erbil started to feel as it, as it got
closer to this vote because there was so much uncertainty in the air.
Um, the larger regional powers did not want and still do not want this
independent Kurdish region.
Um, and the reason for that is because the, the Kurds are the largest
stateless group of, of people in the world.
So there are about 35 million Kurds.
They're, um, uh, they're spread across in, in one sort of unbroken
band across from the Zagros mountains, um, in, in Iran and Iraq, all the way
down to Syria and through a large portion of Turkey.
Yeah.
That's a big Wikipedia version of Kurdish, the Kurdish nationalism.
Yeah.
And, and so, yeah, the notable Kurdish dynasty is shout out to
uh, Selahdin the great.
He, uh, he was, he was the, uh, the leader of the IUBID dynasty.
So was that, so yeah, so where, where did they come from?
Um, they were, uh, so there were nomadic, uh, person group, uh, that was,
was, uh, that was, I mean, you know, they're, they're, uh, uh, originally
from, from the Zagros mountains area.
Right.
But why, so what did the word Kurd come from?
So I've heard that, and sometimes like, I don't know if this is just
like a general reading of it.
I've heard that it relates to tent dwellers.
So nomadic, nomadic tribes people.
Okay.
Um, but I, I didn't include that specifically in my book because I couldn't
confirm it basically.
So this is the, this is the flag of Iraqi Kurdistan.
And it's important to, yeah.
It's important to understand too, that, um, there are many different Kurdish
governments, Kurdish languages, um, and, and Kurdish groups that are contained
within the larger area that the world would consider Kurdistan or certainly
Kurds would consider Kurdistan.
So there are, there are, you know, um, there's a Kurdish region of Iran.
There's a Kurdish region of Turkey.
There's a Kurdish region of, uh, Northeastern Syria and also Iraq.
Each has ostentatively different governmental systems and even sometimes
different languages.
So Kurdish languages.
So in Iraq, Iraqi Kurdistan, they speak a language called Sorani, but you also
have, um, uh, Kermonji, which is a majority Kurdish spoken language.
Um, and one of the reasons that these regional powers don't want any sort of
independence movement from, from certainly Iraqi Kurdistan is that it'll
animate independence movements in these other countries.
So Turkey doesn't want a Kurdish independence movement to happen when,
within its borders.
Yeah.
So this, this red area here, this is the disputed area between Iraqi Kurdistan,
which is in the green.
And then, um, yeah, the disputed area is, um, uh, is in the red there.
And so while I was there, the Kurdish referendum on independence happened.
Um, but immediately Baghdad was like, Hey, you super aren't independent.
And you're also not taking care cook with you.
So the reason that care cook is important is because this is majority.
I mean, a huge amount of oil comes out of care cook.
Okay.
Back in the day, Saddam Hussein was like, I got too many Kurds on that oil land.
So I got to move a bunch of Arabs up there and, and what, and what he called
Arabize the area so that he would, he would have, uh,
which part of this map were you at?
Erbil right there.
That's where I was teaching third grade.
Erbil.
Yeah.
Okay.
You were in Erbil.
I was.
So it's the green zone right here.
Correct.
And why is that green?
What does that say on the bottom?
What's that little?
So that's the area of the Kurdistan regional government.
Okay.
Got it.
So it's an autonomous region within Iraq.
Got it.
Okay.
Just, it's just an autonomous region that Iraq, they leave it
alone.
I mean, yeah, it's, it, that there's, there's to an extent, to an extent.
Yeah.
There, it's a, it's a, is it kind of like similar to how, um, Eastern
Ukraine was sort of like a lot of Russians were there.
And there was, there was a, there's a differentiation in government.
Okay.
Definitely.
Wow.
Okay.
Yeah.
So there is, there is a government that, that is run independently.
Um, but it has direct relationship with Baghdad.
It's under the control of Baghdad.
Okay.
And so when they tried to vote themselves independent in 2017, um, Baghdad
reasserted its control and decided to basically go to have a small war over
Kyrgyz with the Kurdish fighters to ensure that Kurdistan, the Iraqi Kurdistan
never took the oil producing region with them.
And so at the same time, Iraq basically said, okay, also all your airports
belong to us and we're shutting down your airspace.
And, you know, at this point it was, I was, I was sort of early on in, in wanting
to write about, about unrecognized nations.
And I didn't realize that, uh, my book wasn't going to just be about Iraqi
Kurdistan.
That's what I thought it was going to be.
Um, but then I decided to leave Iraqi Kurdistan because I was going to see my
girlfriend who was a, uh, a Fulbright scholar in Bulgaria at the time.
So what, you know, the school had told me was like, okay, well, you know, if
you leave, you might not be able to come back in because like we don't, you
certainly can't come in through the air because Iraq or airspace.
Yeah.
Baghdad shut down the airspace.
So I was like, okay, I'll leave, I'll leave Iraqi Kurdistan, um, on a bus.
I'll just take a bus across the border and then fly from this place called, um,
Sirenac, I don't know if that's how it's pronounced, um, in, uh, in Eastern Turkey.
So yeah, I went, I went across the border, um, and, and spent, you know, uh, Christmas
with my, my girlfriend at the time.
And then we decided to just go back through Turkey for, for New Year's because I
was like, okay, well, like I have to go back through Turkey over a land anyway, uh,
to get back to Iraq.
You know, I have my apartment there, my job there.
And so there's a great train that you can take from Sophia Bulgaria to, um,
to Istanbul.
So we're taking that train and, uh, you know, they take us off the train at like
three o'clock in the morning and they're like, um, you know, passports and give them
our passports and they start looking at us a little funny and they're like,
where, where do you live?
And then my, my girlfriend, uh, Savannah was like, um, oh, I live in Bulgaria.
Fulbright scholar.
And, uh, I fucked up massively.
And I said, I live in Kurdistan.
And immediately they were like, oh, um, you gotta come with us.
And so they took both of us and I got a, I got a, uh, probably about an hour
and a half, two hour interrogation from the, uh, the Turkish authorities.
And what they thought was that I was some kind of political agent, um, either
operating on behalf of the United States or operating on behalf of the PKK,
who are the Kurdish Workplace Party.
Right, right.
Um, because I mean, frankly, it just didn't look good.
Me, there's probably so many CIA agents in that, that area of the world.
Probably.
Yeah.
There's gotta be.
I mean, yeah, they, they, I would imagine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I ran into mostly third graders.
Absolutely.
None of them seemed to, too shadowy to me.
Yeah.
Um, so.
Who pulled you to side tears?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So interrogate me.
Any physical beating?
They swatted my legs a little bit.
Really?
I did just because I like, I don't know.
I didn't know if it was an offensive or not.
Um, uh, but I like crossed my leg, like, you know, just like crossed my leg and
dude, like hit my leg and he's like, sit up straight and I was like, oh, shit.
Like this is, this is real.
Wow.
And so he's like, he's like, so, you know, you work for PKK, do you work for CIA?
Like, who do you work for?
I'm like, dude, I'm a third grade teacher.
I'm trying to write a book about.
I'm recognized countries.
Good cover, by the way.
See, I know, and that's the worst part.
And then they Googled me and then they like found all the writing that I had
done for, for the previous, uh, uh, you know, uh, geopolitical forecasting company,
which was a lot of stuff about Turkey.
And then they were like, let me see your camera.
And I had just previously been to a rally, like an independence rally for, uh,
Iraqi Kurdistan.
So like the whole memory card was just nothing but like hyper nationalistic
Kurdish imagery.
And I'm just like, I'm fucked.
Yeah, I was so fucked.
And I was just like, I was thinking two things basically at the same time.
I was like, one, like, how mad is my girlfriend going to be at me, uh, for,
for getting us like kicked out of Turkey?
Um, or two, am I going to Turkish prison tonight?
Um, oh, what's a fatalities map of what?
What is this?
What, what, uh, Turkey, PKK conflict, a visual explainer.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Oh, and I should say, I didn't, I never, I never really went into, uh, into the,
the Kurdish area of Turkey, um, for, for, you know, for the research from my book.
Right.
Um, and you know, I haven't been back to Turkey since because they banned me.
Um, they banned you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm straight up banned still.
How did that happen?
They handed me some papers that said you're banned.
Right when the after they targeted you.
And they said walk, like we were on the border of, of both.
You still have those, I have a picture of those papers we can pull up.
I don't have it on me.
No, no, I'm sure I can find it though.
I'll send it to you.
That's, that's, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Um, yeah.
Uh, what would happen if you went back?
Beheaded?
Uh, no, I don't think so.
Do the, I don't think they'd be hit.
I actually tried to go back one more time.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Well, cause I, I, we, we thought that it was some kind of, uh, you know, we thought
that there was a, there was like a term limit on it, like there, cause there was
some sort of antagonism between the United States and Turkey at that time.
And we thought maybe this was like, you know, not that big of a deal.
Turns out it's a really big deal.
So they, they banned me from entering Turkey.
I can fly through Turkey.
Um, but as far as I know, I haven't tried the airport.
Yeah, I haven't tried to go back into Turkey since.
Um, but yeah, they, they kind of left us at the border of Bulgarian and Turkey.
And we're like, okay, well, you know, walk, it's, uh, it's December and, uh, and
three o'clock in the morning in Bulgaria.
So what, how cool, what was the temperature?
Super cold.
Um, but fortunately a cab was coming through the border at that exact moment.
I was like, we waited a little bit and a cab was coming through because there's a
bunch of casinos on the other side.
And this, this absolute saint guy named Demeter, he, uh, uh, he picked us up and,
and drove us to like, uh, small town called Svelingrad, Bulgaria.
Um, but at that point I'm just like, Oh shit, like there goes like my book.
And this is also my thesis project.
I was working, I was, um, uh, getting my master's degree in writing from, uh,
from Oxford at the time.
So I was like, this, like this totally torpedoed my whole book.
And also I lost all the stuff I had in my apartment.
I lost my job.
Um, like I'm, I'm starting from ground zero here and, uh, and this is not looking good.
Um, so I was like, okay, well, I've got to continue on this journey of unrecognized
countries.
There are other unrecognized countries.
So what if I just like make my year about trying to go to other unrecognized
nations at these sort of like politically relevant times for them.
And so I decided originally to go back to Kosovo.
Um, so Kosovo is, um, is, you know, you're going to have a lot of mad
Serbian listeners right now.
Um, according to the Serbs, uh, Kosovo is a part of Serbia.
According to over a hundred nations in Europe, um, and around the world, uh,
Kosovo is its own independent nation.
So when Yugoslavia fell, uh, Kosovo fought a war to break apart from Serbia.
And actually it's, it's pretty geopolitically active right now.
Um, there's, there's a lot of, uh, a lot of things happening in, in Northern
Kosovo where Kosovo meets Serbia.
Um, yeah.
So Yugoslavia broke up and Serbia, there was Serbia, Kosovo and Albania.
So Albania was never a part of Yugoslavia.
Okay.
Um, but, uh, so, uh, Montenegro, um, Northern Macedonia, uh, Kosovo, uh,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovenia, um, I'm missing one.
Did I say Serbia?
Serbia.
Yes.
So all of the Serbians are the ones that were massacring everybody, right?
Yeah.
So it was, it was a, uh, a Serbian side.
Yeah.
It was the, the Serbian led, uh, this was under a guy named, uh,
Slobodan Milosevic.
Right.
And so, yeah, there we go.
His maps are awesome.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, so the reason for that dotted line around Kosovo is because it's not
recognized by everybody in the world.
Ooh.
Right.
And so I was there for the 10 year anniversary of Kosovo.
And so in, um, and you know, oftentimes countries don't recognize
Kosovo because they have a close relationship with Serbia or because they
have their own independence movements that are within their countries.
So weirdly, Spain doesn't recognize Kosovo because they have, uh, independence
movements in Catalonia.
So it looks a little bit strange for them to say, Hey, yeah, we recognize
your independence movement, but not ones that are going on in our own backyard.
Mm hmm.
Right.
Interesting.
Mm hmm.
So when you're building a country, essentially it boils down to declaration
and recognition.
And so you can declare being a country all you want.
In fact, I just saw, um, hit some, some DJ in the, the, uh, California
desert decided to declare his own country called a slow Jamestan.
If you really look up slow Jamestan, slow Jamestan, slow Jamestan.
So he's declared world is this something California.
Oh, perfect.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Joshua tree.
I've, there we go.
The Republic of slow Jamestan.
Stop it.
That's right, man.
Stop it.
Travel advisory on Americans wishing to travel to slow Jamestan.
Sultan invites you to join the assault.
He's a Sultan too.
And so, I mean, and these, these types of movements, like essentially
they're, they're the, they're not the exception of the rule.
They are the rule.
This is, this is, you know, this is fucking goofy.
But at the time when like a group of violent revolutionaries decided to
meet in a bar, you know, they, they created a country called the United States.
Like, yeah, it was probably a pretty goofy idea to some people at the time, but
it ended up working because they're able to gain recognition.
Not only could they generate consent amongst the govern, but they could
generate consent amongst other countries to say, yes, you exist.
And that's the thing that.
Iraq, you heard a stand was missing, certainly.
They needed support from the United States.
We didn't support them.
We supported them to help us fight the Islamic state, certainly, but not.
We, we armed them enough to do that, but not enough to fight back against Baghdad
to have a, a revolution within territorial Iraq.
And when was that?
When did we?
2017.
2017, we armed them.
Well, we've, we've worked pretty closely with the Kurds for, for a long time.
Um, and I want to say in 1992, there was an operation called Operation
Provide Comfort, which installed a no fly zone over Iraq.
And this was to, uh, help the, uh, help the Kurdish population along
the border who were fleeing, uh, ethnic cleansing from Saddam Hussein.
Oh, wow.
So we've, we've had a close relationship with them, but you know,
we're constrained by our, our relationship with Turkey and with federal
Iraq, so that we would never actually support an independence movement with them.
At least that's, you know, that's my understanding of it.
The, you know, um, I'm a geopolitical numbskull.
So, uh, apologize for the dumb question.
Well, look, nobody, nobody consulted me as to whether or not like they
should support Kurdish independence.
I, I, I was, uh, you know, teaching sentence structure to Kurdish.
Let's take a break.
Eight year olds.
I gotta fix this AC.
Um, we're, uh, we're, we're both the Zinnan right now.
Oh, Zinnan.
We're on the Zimbabwe.
Um, so I was in, um, uh, Nicotine conversation, by the way, we're back from our
bathroom break.
Nicotine conversations and unrecognized nations.
Bars, not, not Lincoln-esque bars, but bars nonetheless.
Yeah.
Um, so I was, uh, I was in, uh, uh, Mitrovica, which is, uh, this area in
Kosovo, um, oh, Kosovo's gone.
Um, so it's the Syrian Kosovo, which is like disputed between, uh, the, the
Serbs and the, uh, the majority Albanian population.
I should say that the, the, uh, majority of, uh, Kosovo is Albanian and Albanian
speaking, but there are other, uh, ethnic minorities that live there.
And there are also Serbs that live there.
Right.
Um, yeah, there it is.
That's Mitrovica.
And so I, uh, you know, I wanted to, to go up there because let me look, I'm,
I'm an American, uh, and I live in Albania.
Uh, so that, that certainly like tilts my point of view on Kosovo, uh, because
America, uh, sort of led the charge for the NATO bombing campaign that stopped
Milosevic and, uh, led to the establishment of Kosovo as an autonomous state.
And so they really like Americans and, you know, I was saying, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so I, I really like Albanian.
So I'm, I'm massively biased towards that point of view.
And so while I was working on this book, I was like, well, I also need the Serb
point of view.
Um, I need to understand what they're, uh, what, what living in a country that
essentially they don't consent to is like for them.
So I went up to, uh, to Northern Mitrovica and there's this bridge that
crosses over a river.
It's called the Ibar River.
And it's sort of patrolled by all of these UN peacekeepers, um, Italian
carbonary, um, who are sort of keeping the Serbian side and the Albanian side
separate because if anything's going to pop off of war is going to start again,
uh, in the region, then it's going to start probably at Mitrovica or in one
of these borderland areas.
And so I went up there and I was like, well, I need to cross the bridge.
I needed to go, you know, like just talk to somebody.
And as I was crossing the bridge, I was like, you know, I immediately felt
like this intense sense of, of, you know, anxiety because I was like, it quite
literally felt like I'm crossing over from the side of us, just from my own,
like nationalistic conceptions to the side of them.
Because I know for a fact that the United States is revered in Kosovo
because they helped stop Milosevic's genocide.
And I know for a fact that the Serbs do not love America because we
bombed their capital.
In fact, the bombed out buildings are still sort of kept as monuments.
Oh, wow.
Right.
And so feeling yourself change, you know, how you feel in a place based off
of how other people are perceiving you.
Like that's kind of the essence of, of the illusion of statecraft, right?
I'm just crossing a bridge.
Like nothing's changed, but everything's changed about my internal life.
Suddenly I feel like the other.
And so I cross the bridge and, you know, I'm kind of doing what I usually
do as, as a, you know, as a travel writer, which is just, you know,
try to make friends.
Right.
And so I go to this bar.
Same thing as spy would do.
Yeah.
Except they'd have health care.
Yeah.
Be awesome.
Hire me.
CIA.
What's up?
Not doing anything right now.
Except for my book, you are not here.
Travels through countries that don't exist.
CIA recommended.
Um, so I go to this, this coffee shop and I'm kind of just sitting there having,
uh, having a drink and smoking a cigarette and minding my own business,
but also trying to, you know, uh, trying to make friends.
And at some point this guy looks over to me and he's like, um, you Balkan.
He says it in English.
And I was like, nope, not.
Why'd you think that?
And he's like, well, you drink like a Russian, you smoke like a Turk and you look
like a Jew.
Damn.
That was accurate, man.
Like, so I'm like, Hey, can I buy you a drink?
He's like a Muslim.
No, but you can buy me a coffee.
I'm like, cool, man.
So we start chatting.
And so Muslims don't drink.
Uh, I mean, some do, um, but, but obviously more Orthodox Muslims don't
drink as it's a haram to them.
Wow.
Um, and he was.
And so I was a fascinating conversation with the guy.
He's, he's, he's Bosniak, right?
And so a part of Milosevic's genocide was Bosniaks was, was Muslim men and boys.
Like the, the Shrebenica massacre was this horrifying massacre in Bosnia.
And yet there I have a Bosniak guy who's sitting next to me in, you know, the
Serbian dominated side of Mitrovica in Kosovo, a majority Albanian country.
And I'm like, what are you doing here?
And he's like, what are you doing here?
I'm like, I'm trying to write a book about unrecognized nations.
And I'm like, can you explain, you know, can you explain how you sort of see
your national identity to me?
And he's like, Oh, you're not, you're not Balkan at all.
You would understand this.
I'm like, no, I'm not like, you know, he's like, look, I speak Serbian.
I have the same religion as many of the Albanians.
I even speak Albanian, but I know that I, and I grew up in Yugoslavia, but I
know I'm not Albanian because my father says that I'm Bosniak and certainly
I'm Slavic, but I know I'm not Serbian and I know I'm not Croatian because
I'm not Catholic.
And I'm like, okay, so what you're saying is that you understand your
identity based off of the things that you're not.
That's a big portion of like what your identity is.
And there's even a term for this.
It's called schismogenesis.
And the idea is that national identities, group identities can often come
from another group that you're being different than that you're identifying
yourself away from Yugoslavia was the land of the Southern Slavs.
That's what Yugoslavia means.
And so there are all these different groups within Yugoslavia, Croatians,
Slovenians, Macedonians, Serbians, Bosniaks, and they all had different
national characters.
And so when Yugoslavia fell apart, they divided along cultural lines.
And so he understood himself, his own personal identity, how his identity
plugged into the rest of what he felt his nation was, was as a Bosniak,
specifically because his parental lineage, his religious beliefs, and also
who he said he wasn't.
And so at that point, I was like, okay, one, you're right.
I'm definitely not Balkan.
And maybe I would understand that a little bit better if I didn't
grow up in Southern California.
And then two, what's it like, you know, living in a Serbian city after there
was this, you know, massacre of Bosnians?
He's like, well, you want to, do you want to see how Serbs treat Muslims now?
I'm like, yeah, he's like, you should go to a funeral.
I'm like, okay.
He's like, you want to come to one tomorrow?
I'm like, what?
And he's like, yeah, I'm like, who died?
He's like, my mother, like, okay, yeah, I'll come to your, and it wasn't, it
wasn't like a funeral, it was a wake.
And so like, I was like, yeah, I'll totally, so staying on the Albanian
side of the bridge and decided to shout out to Ayrton, by the way.
What's up, man?
The really cool guy.
So he definitely watches this.
Yeah, totally.
Ayrton.
So I, you know, and it had the weirdest experience too, because I was like, okay,
yesterday I felt like all this anxiety about like crossing the bridge and like,
you know, am I, am I them?
Are people going to, you know, think badly of me because I'm so squarely on
the opposite side of things?
I mean, even literally physically, because it's a damn bridge.
Um, but then the next day I'm like, okay, I'm going to like awake.
So I better like bring something because it's like rude show up empty handed.
So I went over to an Albanian bakery and like got some baklava, but then I was
like, oh, shit, this box is written in Albanian.
I'm like, is that going to be offensive?
And I'm like, no, fuck it.
Baklava is great.
Like I'll just bring, you know, bring baked goods to this thing.
And so I walked across and, you know, and, and sort of sat with his family as,
and, you know, it was a, I don't know if that's a typical Bosniak wake, but
we all just sort of like sat around and, and kind of like held silence for,
for his mother who had passed.
And after a little bit, he was like, well, you want to come out and
have a cigarette with me.
And I was like, okay, so we went outside and, um, and he was like, let me,
let me show you what my mom looked like.
And so he goes over to this sort of like death notice and it's, um, it's sort
of stapled to, um, you know, one of the, the light light poles in the area.
And he's like the, the, the green box is because she was Muslim.
But as you can see, you know, this, this house is full of Serbs Bosniaks.
Like, you know, we're, we were trying to move on and like at a certain point,
like the dead don't care about their, their nationality.
And, and then I had a similar conversation with, with a Kosovar.
Who was, he was running the Reuters Bureau, um, in, uh, in, uh, uh,
Pristina at the time during, during the, uh, during the war.
And I asked him, you know, was, was there a time that he sort of felt this
like elation, right?
I mean, you know, this is going to be released on, on July 4th.
And Americans have this sort of like, at least I do, I can, let me speak for myself.
Like I have this sort of like assumption that like at the point that the
declaration of independence was signed and you know, the flag is waving, like
there's this sort of like glorious elation that like we have a country and we
did it.
And I think that might actually be fiction because I asked him about that.
Like, was there ever this point of, of like, you know, absolute joy that you,
you won?
He's like, no, no, because then you have to build a nation.
Yeah, you want it, but like you have to build it.
You have to build institutions now.
You have to, you have to do all the hard work.
You have to clean up all of the, the buildings.
You have to, you have to help repair the shattered lives.
You have to deal culturally with a genocide.
There was no moment of elation.
And I was like, so when, you know, when does, when does the work of building
a nation actually stop?
And he looked at me and he was like, look, there's a, there's a graveyard on
the border of Albania and Kosovo.
Their work's done.
They don't have any work to do, but the rest of us, we're still creating a nation.
And I went back to Kosovo fairly recently and I was, I was there for the 15th
year anniversary and, you know, I talked with Serbs and, and, uh, and Albanian
Kosovars, of course there are other, there are other, other, uh, uh, you know,
minority groups there as well.
The Grani, there's Bosniaks, there's, so Turks, um, there's a lot of people there.
Um, but I talked with one Serbian guy.
Um, he's a docent at a monastery called Gracinica and it's like this sort of
enclave, a Serbian majority enclave in Kosovo.
And, you know, I'm, I'm in a Serbian monastery and immediately asked me where
I'm from, it kind of surprised me.
And normally I'd say California, but I'm like, like, you know, some cool.
Um, but I was like in the United States and he was like, oh, okay.
And then kind of went the other way.
And so, you know, um,
they don't like Americans though, right?
We bombed them, man.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, like Kosovo has a statue of Bill Clinton.
Really?
Yeah.
And he has a really big hand.
See if you can find the, the statue of Bill Clinton.
Why do they have a statue of Bill Clinton?
Because he, he was the, uh, he was the sort of leading force in the bombing
campaign against, uh, against Bolshevik forces.
Yeah.
Bill Clinton's.
Oh yeah.
You said it was 91, right?
Yeah.
Oh, no, later.
It was, uh, it was, uh, no.
Oh, shit.
Look at that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's Bill.
There he is.
Savage.
Yeah.
They also have like a closed shop called Hillary's.
Huge hand.
Just absolutely enormous.
Um, but, you know, I was talking to this guy and he's like, you know, it's my
job to protect this monastery and, you know, he starts walking me through the
alternate history for him, you know, the alternate Serbian history.
And it like, it's not like he's just sort of like spouting off propaganda.
These memorized, like he's deeply affected by this too.
Um, and, and he's saying, he used this, this phrase to me.
He's like, you know, this is half time in the football game.
It's not over.
You know, Serbia is going to come back.
It's going to get this area again, even though this area is deeply within Kosovo.
So it's again, it's like that, that people's ability to construct
reality around themselves can lead them to believe whatever promises them a future tense.
And so while he looks around outside of the village of Grazinsa, and he sees
everything in Albanian writing, and he sees, you know, um, the EU trying to sponsor
a institution building in the country, he's saying to himself, well, in the future,
it's not going to be like this.
In the future, it's going to be part of Serbia again.
And this is something that I think is always, um, something to look out for
with political leaders, because political leaders tend to promise you either a future
or a past.
And the reason that they promise you a future or a past is because it's not
something that's happening right now.
You won't be able to determine the results of it.
So look at make America great again.
Right.
Cool.
When exactly?
Like, was it, was it, you know, when we had this robust driving middle class after
World War two, because the manufacturing infrastructure of the world, the world was
destroyed in Europe and we had shipping lanes across the Pacific and the Atlantic.
Was it then?
I mean, it wasn't great for everybody.
So who is it great for?
Right.
And the answer to that is his voters.
And then sometimes political leaders are promising you the future.
What do you mean, his voters?
No, that's who he's talking to, you know, uh, MAGA voters.
When do they believe that again was?
I don't know.
I'd be curious.
Like there's, there's this sort of, from what I understand anyway, there's this Norman
Rockwell version of America.
And I'm not, I'm certainly not a person who, who will just, you know, write off the United
States.
I think the United States is great.
I mean, we've done remarkable things, but to look at your own nation through only rose
colored glasses is to, to not actually see your nation, you know, every nation, much
like every person contains some really incredible bright parts, but also incredible
shadows and any nation that's able to elicit violent force and domination on the
world has done horrifying things.
And this goes all throughout antiquity.
Like that is the state of a nation.
And so how people perceive that, whether or not they perceive that as greatness, that's
something that a political leader can use to guarantee them a future that is brighter
than their current present.
Okay.
You know, that makes sense.
Or take for example, you know, the Soviet Union, we're moving towards communism.
We're moving towards pure communism.
Right now we need to hand over all of this power towards strong men so that resources
can be redistributed and then we'll have, you know, this fair, equitable, non-hierarchical
government structure.
But first we have to, you know, we have to do this sort of like really intense autocracy.
Right.
And so again, political leaders are promising the future or they're promising the past.
The important thing is they're promising something that's not immediately visible because
they need your consent.
It makes me think about where we are right now in the country and like where do most
Americans believe that we're going?
What is the message?
Like Trump, I mean, Trump had a great marketing campaign.
Yeah.
Nobody can deny that.
And I don't see any other presidents doing that.
Having a great marketing campaign?
I'm not just having a great marketing campaign, but promising some sort of future or like you
say a past.
Like they're not really giving in these sort of grandiose vision of something that people
can get behind.
Like Trump had something that people got behind and like you said, they made it their religion.
Yeah.
Well, that's the, I think it's Zuboff in surveillance capitalism.
She talks about this sort of like this human need to have a right to the future tense.
Right.
And so a right to the future tense is this idea that when you can project your own personal
identity into the future reasonably, and you can say, I'll be more productive, I'll be
more wealthy, I'll be more secure, my children will be thriving and healthy.
When you can do that, you don't have many problems with the system at hand.
But when you can't do that, when your vision of the future becomes dimmer and darker, and
when it looks like things are actually getting worse from you or when it looks like things
are getting worse for you, then suddenly you're going to cling to any ideology that promises
you that future tense, even if it doesn't actually bear any resemblance to reality.
Because we as human beings need that.
Like we need to feel that our future is going to be secure.
That we have some sort of purpose.
Exactly.
And you can so easily pour purpose into national identity.
You know, as I was talking with the guy in the Serbian monastery, he was, you know, he's almost
to the point of tears talking about like how Serbia is going to reclaim this monastery
that he cares so much about.
Like he has to believe that because it's his identity is so deeply involved in it.
Right.
When everything around him is telling the exact opposite of that.
It's so interesting to see these tools used in nations that are unrecognized or that they're
building up their own national identity or that they've won a national identity partially or
pardon me, or that they've won national recognition, but not throughout the entire world.
And then to come back to the United States and see that like we've grown up in a nation where
we think of that as immutable.
Right.
We've grown up in a nation thinking that the United States has been around, always will be around.
And it's not going anywhere.
Right.
And that's just not the case for most nation states.
Right.
You know, the USSR crumbled into its constituent parts as soon as as soon as independence
movements started moving through the country.
That was a 250 million person country is the biggest land mass in the world.
Right.
And it disappeared.
So what do you call yourself?
Like, I mean, what do you call yourself?
I run this question all the time.
Like America disappears tomorrow.
Right.
Like, what am I now?
I would probably still identify as an American.
I wouldn't be a Californian.
Right.
I mean, I live in Albania.
I'm not Albanian, you know, would I go back to like whatever my grandparents were?
Oh, what do you think you would do?
I don't know.
I asked the question, though, to a lot of people all the time, like, what would they
do if the United States was no longer than the world's superpower?
Like, will we become some, some huge target to some of the other superpowers?
Like, would we become like a vulnerable target to Russia and China?
Would they, how much of a grip would they have on us and how, how much security
would we have living here if we were no longer the number one superpower?
So that, that's a super interesting point of view on it.
I think it's like a super, it's definitely like the dominant American point of view
because it's like, I think one of the things that, that defines the American
character is self-determinate, pardon me.
One of the things that defines the American character is like self-determination.
But on the flip side of that, the shadow of that is paranoia, right?
It's like, I'm going to be the one who's leading this thing.
I'm going to go out and make it on my own.
I'm going to, you know, dominate world markets.
I'm going to innovate.
I'm going to do all these things.
But what happens when I'm no longer on top?
Well, other nations treat me like I've treated other nations.
Right.
And, and the, I simply don't know.
I mean, I, if I were to assess that, I think you'd have to look at really the
geography, like how much can we decentralize to produce the things that we
personally need to survive?
We have an enormous amount of arable land.
We have drinkable water.
We have navigable waterways.
We've, we've operated in a sort of like federated mode before.
And does it make sense to invade us?
Like, does it?
Genuinely?
Does, does China want our land?
They have a lot of land.
Right.
They have quite a bit.
So, you know, what would be the imperative?
Why would somebody be forced to act violently on the United States?
You know, it does, it's interesting when you think about like the geography of
the United States and how we are surrounded by the Pacific and the Atlantic
Ocean, and it may not make sense to put boots on the ground in the United
States if you're another country, but you could, you could sort of take over the
United States in other ways, which is a lot of people talk about how China is
doing that with us through like TikTok and trying to make us dumber, like,
right, with like every kid between the age of 12 and, you know,
12 and 20 in their 20s, they're just scrolling through mindless TikTok stuff
all the time, China is putting fentanyl, you know, literally like shipping
fentanyl to Mexico, which is getting into the drugs, which is, you know,
killing a lot of people in the U.S.
They're doing it in these weird subversive ways.
They're sort of like, like injecting them themselves into us.
It's like this, this negative, all these negative aspects of, of drugs and
media into us, which is killing us from the inside.
Like, quote, like Abraham Lincoln said that we would like rot from the inside,
which seems like what's happening right now.
It's like, it's like end stage, late stage, empire kind of thing.
Yeah, it's, well, it's interesting too.
So in the, it's a, it's a really interesting assessment.
And I think that that's something that a lot of people feel right now, especially
when I come back to the States.
I think the first thing that I noticed when I go back to the States is there is
so much paranoia, there's so much fear here constantly.
It's, and there's so much political polarization.
As soon as I have any conversation with anybody, they're sort of probing
for whatever my politics are.
Like, I mean, I can say something as innocuous as blue hair.
You already have a political picture, right?
And you already have a menu of beliefs that like this person, like I literally
said two words.
And so like that's astounding, right?
That is that, that Americans are constantly probing one another to say,
are you on my side?
Or are you on their side?
Because if you're on their side, I want nothing to do with you.
And that is so corrosive to any nation.
But going back to your point about China, I mean, I'm in no way any sort
of expert really on anything, certainly not on China.
But, you know, you'd have to ask yourself, what's the imperative behind it?
Like, I think if I'm, if I'm moving towards being a dominant power in the
world, I want and a dominant economic power, certainly, I want markets.
Right.
You know, I don't, I don't care about, about turning somebody, you know,
Chinese, I want, I want wealth to come from outside markets into my country.
I want to maintain the wealth within my country and use that for the betterment
of my people, right?
And this is, this is ultimately the reason that I think that we're in this
stage of reconceptualizing what a nation state is.
Because frankly, the nation states just hadn't been around for that long.
Previously, it was like empires, it was kingdoms, it was five domes.
And it was clans.
So like, as we go down to that base level of the pyramid, it becomes
more and more decentralized and it becomes more communal.
But what happens when you have a global economy, capitalism doesn't care
about your borders.
It cares about maximizing the benefit of business and it will fall to the point
that the price point for labor is the lowest and it will rise to the point
that they can sell goods for the highest, right?
And so we've had this drain of low, of value added work that's been exported.
And so our GDP looks great because it's like, wow, all these businesses,
they're multi-trillion-dollar businesses, right?
But who's doing the labor?
Like it's going to Foxconn.
And, you know, the, and so.
From what I understand, our GDP is not that great.
We're like on the border, we're like borderline in a recession.
But the reason that they're the way they're keeping us out of a recession
is by funding the wars, like the military industrial complex, like funding
more money into these private military contractors, all these billions
and billions of dollars is keeping us above that line of us falling
into a quote unquote recession.
Well, I see, I in no way can speak on, on whether or not we're in a recession
or not, because I don't think anybody actually can.
I mean, there's, there's, you know, the, the last thing that I heard is
people will always say, well, the target is two percent inflation.
OK, but like, what is it actually?
And also, how do you define that?
But what you have is you have these really high producing businesses.
And so as we've sort of evolved as a nation economically, we're not in the
sort of post World War Two era where manufacturing is being done in the United
States and it's being shipped off to other nations to sell our goods there
because we're just the only game in town.
Europe used to be, but its infrastructure was destroyed and nobody
could ship to both the Pacific and Atlantic.
And so suddenly we had this robust working class where not only are we
building in the United States, but we're innovating in the United States
and people are getting richer and richer.
That's the point where people are talking about.
That's when America was great again.
Right, right.
When people had this assumption that their life was just getting better,
because I mean, I look at my parents and my, you know, grandparents, you know,
they came from being very small town subsistence farmers to my dad's a judge
and my mom's an author to, you know, being metropolitan, highly educated,
wealthier people than their ancestors could have imagined.
And so when people in the sort of make America great, when people in the make
America great, how do I say it again?
Yeah, when people in the MAGA movement are saying make America great again,
I think what they're what they're calling for is give me a future I can
actually believe in again.
And that was happening in a massive economic way post World War Two.
But then, you know, we become instead of a labor-based economy, instead
of a value-added based economy, we become a knowledge-based economy.
So suddenly you need one Steve Jobs instead of a thousand workers at a
Ford plant, right?
And suddenly labor goes to India.
It goes to China.
It goes to wherever the price point is the lower and lowest.
It goes to wherever the price point is the lowest because.
Wow.
Wow.
Huge dick on that guy.
Loud pipes.
Yeah.
Um, because money ultimately doesn't care about borders.
Right.
Yeah.
And so that that's one of the reasons that I think that that we're having this,
this reevaluation of, of what a country is.
In fact, there are some people who think that like we're moving towards this
like statehood as a service model, right?
Citizenship almost as subscription model.
I mean, think what is, what does your country do for you?
Right.
It provides protection.
Sometimes it provides healthcare.
Um, uh, it provides a galvanizing sense of national identity.
Um, but what does that mean when we can have relationships across the entire world?
You know, people are playing online with, uh, uh, you know, players from Russia and
from all over the world, they're, they have an affinity group that doesn't live
where they live and they're working.
I mean, I, I've worked from Albania for American companies for a bunch of different
companies and, you know, never once lived in the United States.
Well, I did live in the United States, but yeah.
So, so what, you know, what does a country do for us in this world where we are all
becoming sort of like digital global citizens?
That's kind of creepy.
That is interesting.
That, you know, that's, that's one of the things that, um, people talk about when
they talk about like type zero to type one, two and three civilizations.
As they say, like right now we're a type zero civilization.
And to become a type one civilization, we have to become a global civilization.
Yep.
Yep.
And we're kind of on our way there because we have the internet.
The internet has made us far more global.
But we're also experiencing these enormous growing pains and, and because, and
because of these growing pains, it's, it's leaving, I think a lot of the world with
this huge identity crisis.
And that's why, that's why it was so interesting to look at unrecognized nations
where it's like, like for example, the, the next place I ended up going to is a place
called Transnistria.
Um, have you heard about?
Only from you.
Oh yeah.
So yeah, Transnistria, um, sometimes called the black hole of Europe.
Um, it's this sort of like little slip of, of, um, an autonomous zone.
It's only, uh, recognized by three other countries who are also themselves unrecognized.
It's a Russian protectorate, even though Russia doesn't recognize Transnistria as
its own sovereign nation.
That's the center of Terraspol.
That's their flag.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
And try to find a map of it.
Yeah.
It's a, it's really tiny little slip of land and it's right on the border of, of
Ukraine.
Oh, okay.
Right by Odessa?
Yep.
Correct.
It's only, I think like an hour or two away from Odessa by, uh, by train.
Okay.
Yeah.
So what made you want to go to Transnistria?
So they were having Russian elections.
Um, so I was in Kosovo for the 10 year anniversary.
Um, and that's in the book.
And then I realized like, wow, you know, Russian elections are happening outside
of Russia.
Super interesting.
So in this country where even Russia doesn't recognize that it's, it's, it's
its own autonomous country, um, they're hosting Russian elections because it's a
majority Russian area.
Right.
And the reason that it is a majority Russian area is because literally because
Captain the Great went to war with the Ottomans back in the day and they took this
little slip of land because what, you can see the sort of border there.
Yeah.
There's this river, the Deneaster.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Deneaster River.
Um, hence the name trans trans Deneaster trans zoom out a little bit.
So I can see kind of like the whole area.
And so what it does is it lets you have access to the black sea.
Right.
And so Catherine the Great saw this as a geopolitical imperative.
We've got to push the Ottomans off of this area so we can gain access to the black
sea.
Um, and then when the Soviet Union sort of took a hold, uh, the Bolshevik revolution
kicked off and suddenly they needed to gather up all of these areas.
They needed to gather at Moldova.
They needed to, you know, push their borders all the way out to, uh, Central Asia, but
they needed to install that galvanizing sense of identity within the people that are there.
Right.
So suddenly you're not a Moldovan, you're a Soviet, but there were all these
Russian, you know, Russian speaking people who were in the, uh, Transnistrian area.
And so they're, they're sort of sandwiched in between Ukrainians and Moldovans.
And as the Soviet Union started to rattle apart, they were like, no, we're, we want
to, we want to keep the dream alive.
And so that's why they still have Lenin statues.
That's why they still have portraits of Stalin.
I mean, it's, it's literally like going back in time to like what the Soviet Union
would look like today, except in this sort of weird oligarchic way.
Like mo, a lot of the things in Transnistria are run by literally a grocery store
brand called Sheriff.
Wow.
Yeah.
Look up a grocery store.
Yeah.
I mean, if you think about it, it's a great idea to, um, uh, if you want to sort of like
have control over an area, like what do grocery stores do?
They're responsible for supply lines.
They're responsible for, uh, large amounts of real estate.
They partner with local businesses and they control the food.
Right.
Right.
So Sheriff, second largest, the second largest company in the unrecognized
breakaway state, Transnistria Sheriff's supermarket under construction in the
city of Bendry.
Yup.
Whoa.
Yeah.
So they own the majority of everything in Transnistria.
And, you know, it's a way of having a sort of de facto government.
A great way of doing that is keeping control over the food.
Uh, it's keeping control over how resources have brought in supply lines.
And since Moldova has this, uh, has a sort of agreement with their companies,
you can do business so long as they're considered Moldovan companies.
Now Sheriff is kind of the only game in town because they have relationships with
that logo.
It's a literal, literal Sheriff's star.
Yup.
Yup.
In fact, they even have that come from like the US.
Was that inspired by like, so I, I've heard, I've heard different things that I
in no way, uh, can, can confirm, but I, I heard that the inspiration from it was
the fact that the, uh, the sort of, um, you know, the, the, the lawmakers in the
town, the sort of secret police and, and, uh, the, uh, yeah.
So the lawmakers that were still active in, in Transnistria were like, okay,
well, what do we even call our company now that we need to have a legitimate
company?
It's like, well, what are we?
We're the sheriffs of this town.
Sheriff's star.
I don't know if that's true or not.
I really have no idea, but it's so funny.
It, it, that Sheriff's star exists for a reason.
They even have their own football team.
Sheriff football team.
Yeah.
Really?
Like soccer.
Soccer football.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
And I think they did pretty well this last year in something.
Um, but yeah, it's a bizarre, bizarre place.
Um, and it kind of feels like you're being watched all the time.
It feels like you're being followed there.
I don't know if I was, it certainly seemed to be the case.
Um, and, but it also feels like you're kind of living in this fossil.
You know, people in Transnistria have like five, six passports because they
need to have some recognition outside of Transnistria because nobody
recognizes a Transnistrian passport.
So they'll have, you know, they'll have Moldovan, Romanian, um, Russian passports.
Okay.
And you know, it's, you look at that place and what it feels like being in that
place is like, well, what, what's the future that people want here?
Is it that they're once again subsumed into larger Russia?
I don't know.
Um, that would mean.
What kind of sense did you get from the people there?
I got the sense that, um, people considered themselves Russian, but they
also knew that they were kind of between this rock and a hard place that, uh,
and I certainly can't speak for all Transnistrians, um, but that they were,
they were sort of on this island, which they clearly are.
And, and a lot of the stuff with the Ukraine worn out too is like, well, is
Transnistria, is the Transnistrian military going to activate and going to Ukraine?
Because they have Russian tanks that are over there and they have a Transnistrian
military.
So is that, I'm actually surprised that it hasn't really activated the same way.
I'm, I'm actually super surprised that, uh, that Transnistria has not really been
a part of the war effort at this point.
But from what I understand anyway, there is this strategy of trying to connect,
uh, the land bridge, you know, if you go along from Southern Transnistria all the
way across to, uh, um, uh, the occupied territories in Ukraine, that that would
sort of help them gather up the larger Ukraine, or that would help them gather
up the larger Russian forces.
So what side would they be on Ukraine or Russia?
The Transnistrians?
Yeah.
Likely Russia.
They're Russian speaking.
They're, yeah, they're, they, I mean.
That's like with a lot of, um, areas in Ukraine, right?
Like, uh, Crimea is mainly Russian.
And yeah, I mean, uh, that's what I've heard.
I don't know.
I've never been to Ukraine.
Um, so yeah, I mean, this is what I've seen in, uh, documentaries.
Totally something that I've heard, I've heard and seen, yeah, but, but I, I truly
don't know.
Um, yeah, it's a really strange place.
Um, but at this point, I, you know, it's sort of three, three countries down, uh,
that were all unrecognized.
And, and during this time I had met this, this journalist in Iraq, I told him
about my project and, and he was like, oh man, if you like unrecognized nations,
you should get a load of Lieberland.
I was like, what's that?
Lieberland.
Where's this at?
Uh, it is a, an island in the middle of the Danube River, the Free Republic of Lieberland.
How big is it?
Uh, seven square kilometers.
It's about as big as the Vatican.
That's their flag.
And so this, this journalist, um, you feel a lot better flags.
You know, I, I agree.
I agree that, that could, that flag is a little busy for my taste.
Um, so this, this journalist was like, yeah, well, you should, you should check
out Lieberland.
Do you want the, the president's email?
I was like, yeah, totally.
I'll take that.
So I basically just started bothering like the, the, the government of Lieberland
for like months while I was in, you know, well, once I got kicked out of Turkey
and then I was in Kosovo and then I was in Transnistria, just started bothering them.
And eventually they wrote me back all is in Transnistria and they're like, look,
if you want to come and visit us, you can come for our third year anniversary.
And I was like, done.
Let's, let's get, let's get to the Danube.
And so ran basically all the way across from Eastern Moldova to, uh,
Novi Sad Serbia, which is where they were sort of having their, their, uh, their
third year anniversary celebrations.
And somebody was like, okay, um, if you want to meet Lieberlanders, you got to go
up to, uh, Appatine Harbor.
Now I didn't really know much about Lieberland at the time.
Uh, I knew that they were the world's first libertarian microstate.
Um, and that was it.
Like that's all I knew.
And so I go up to the small harbor, uh, in Appatine, Appatine, or, so I go up to
the small harbor in Appatine, Serbia, and I see a boat, just like a houseboat
hanging out in the, the harbor and it's flying to Lieberland flag.
And I'm like, is that Lieberland?
Like, where, where, where is it?
And so, yeah, there's their website.
Um, great website for our country.
I know, right?
And, uh, and so I go up to the boat and there's like, you know, this shirtless
Dutch dude on top of it.
And he's like, you, are you a Lieberlander?
And I'm like, no.
And he's like, well, come aboard.
Let's change that.
And I'm like, okay.
So I go up on this boat and I start talking with this dude.
And I'm like, this is what I've been working on.
And so he starts talking about how like they are not only the first world's
first libertarian nation, but they're this sort of crypto anarchist nation
that's funded based off of crypto currencies.
And so what, you know, they've done this, this really fascinating little
trick of statecraft, right?
So when Yugoslavia fell, there was this declared no man's land between Serbia
and Croatia.
And in that no man's land, that was the Danube river.
There was this island, that island right there that nobody really claimed.
Croatia decided that they weren't going to claim it.
Serbia decided they weren't going to claim it.
So nobody was on this island.
Cut to the future.
And a libertarian political scientist guy, I guess I'm just going to call him.
So anyway, I don't know what to call him.
The president, so sounds good.
Yeah.
Cut to the future.
The president of Lieberland is like, I think I can start a country there.
And he's a, you know, Bitcoin millionaire.
And he goes up and he's like, puts a flag in and he's like, I got a country.
Now, I just got to work on recognition.
Because remember, if you start a country, it's two things.
It's like a declaration recognition.
And so they start building actual infrastructure.
They have Lieberlandians that are living on this.
And mostly they're just like Bitcoin millionaires who are just like, this is,
you know, the future of statecraft.
What we're going to do is we're going to have this sort of libertarian paradise
where we fund ourselves off of cryptocurrencies and we don't have to
interact with the, you know, legacy financial system.
And so that's why I'm talking with this like shirtless dude on a houseboat
in the middle of the Danube River.
And I'm like feeling kind of two ways about this, because it's like on one hand,
I've been through all of these countries that have had these violent
revolutions, you know, blood and treasure to draw a line on a map.
And meanwhile, a bunch of cryptocurrency millionaires decide, well, we can take
this land because nobody wants it.
And we can start our nation here and we can sort of live parallel to the laws
of the world by making our own, we can live parallel to the laws of the world
by making our own laws on this little island.
Because again, now we're in a place where that's, that's the.
That's the future plan.
That is the future plan.
Yeah.
Hmm.
So these crypto guys are going to fund all this.
I mean, that's what they're trying to do right now.
Um, I, I ended up with them for their, uh, their, like I said, the third year
anniversary and, uh, eventually, you know, after, after bothering the, the
Librelanders as much as possible, I ended up in, in this sort of cryptocurrency
conference in, in Novi Sad, Serbia.
And I was, you know, just talking with the various Librelanders.
And at one point somebody was like, Hey, that's the Secretary of State.
Just go talk to him.
And it turns out he was coming to find me.
And so, you know, after talking with the sort of shirtless Dutch crypto
anarchist, I was like, is this just kind of like a burning man thing?
Like what's, what, what is Libreland at this point?
And as this dude is like this really genteel, super smart, um, English guy.
And so we sit down and, and start talking about statecraft.
And I'm like, what are we doing here?
And he's like, we're making a country.
I'm like, legitimately.
And he's like, yeah.
And I'm like, how?
And so he sort of starts talking me through like the various ways they're
gaining recognition.
And one way was actually pretty fascinating.
So they kicked everybody off of Libreland.
Croatia did.
Serbia nominally supports them.
And so the Croatians kicked people off of Serbia, or pardon me, the Croatians
kicked people off of the Libreland Island because they said it was a front
to their sort of national integrity.
Um, but through treaty, they actually say that they have no claim over the island.
So the president of Libreland ends up getting himself, um, arrested by the Croatian
authorities.
And so what that does is it makes them have to make a legal decision.
Do you have claim over this territory or not?
Because according to this treaty, you don't.
But you arrested somebody who's a European citizen for apparently illegally
entering your country.
So either you have a claim or you don't.
And so by taking them to court, they were able to sort of start carving out
recognition from Croatia.
And then meanwhile, at the same time, Croatia starts running patrols up and down
the river, hoping that people just don't go to the island.
But what does that do?
It gives them a de facto border.
So it's almost like this like keto move.
And so I, I find out from the Librelandians, Librelanders, I still can't
remember which it is supposed to be.
Librelandians sounds good.
It does sound good.
So, uh, I find out from them that like this whole thing is going to be like,
we're not allowed to step foot on the island, but the third year anniversary is
going to be this boat party, right?
And so they have all these boats, like the sort of flotilla boats that's going
to like take off from the harbor.
And then everybody's just going to go look at the island.
And I was like, I got to talk to the president.
I've just, I got a, like this is, this is my mission for the day.
And so I find the biggest boat and I get on that boat because I assume he's
going to be on that boat.
And I mean, it's a boat.
So there's only so many places to look for the president.
I can't find him anywhere.
And then we take off and we're sort of floating down the Danube river.
Suddenly Croatian patrol boats start coming alongside of us.
And they're like making sure that we don't eventually go to the island.
And it's like this sort of party like atmosphere where everybody's
drinking like Lieberland wine, which is called Tierra Nullis.
And just like out of red solo cups and like dancing to top forties hits.
And I can't find the president until I see him, like until I see the
president like speeding along on a jet ski throughout all of the different
boats and in between the Croatian police.
And so that's Vigilika.
And what he's doing is he's like going to each of the boats, giving a little
speech and then like coming back and like giving another speech to somewhere else.
And I'm just like looking him zipping around on this jet ski like between
Croatian police and all these Bitcoin millionaires on like tiny boats and big boats.
And I'm just like, I got to get on that jet ski somehow.
Like this is this is pop on the back.
This is yeah, I'm like, how, how can I get on this jet ski?
And I'm, you know, staring off the side of the boat, I'm looking for the jet ski.
And I hear this guy from behind me.
He's like, you want to get on the jet ski?
I'm like, yeah.
And he's like, I'm the foreign secretary.
Like, can you just is everybody just like nominating them?
Like at this point, a hobbit could have come up to me and been like, oh, yeah,
I'm the I'm the diplomat of Lieberland.
I'm like, OK, yeah, sounds good.
And he's so turns out the foreign secretary is this guy named Tom.
I think he lives in Florida.
And he's like trying to create diplomatic relations with other countries for
Lieberland for recognition of Lieberland.
So he ends up waving down the president on his jet ski.
And I finally get on the back of the jet ski with the president of Lieberland.
And that is like the weirdest first impression that you can make on somebody.
Did you have to hold on to him?
That's exactly what I did.
Do you wear a life jacket?
No.
Yeah, I probably should have.
I don't want to think about it.
Yeah.
So I'm just like clutching on to the president of Lieberland.
Beautiful.
It was the strangest first impression.
And I'm like, hi.
I like it's also loud because, you know, there's boats everywhere.
There's Russian police and there he is.
It's a bit.
Oh, man.
Yeah.
And so I'm like holding onto him like a spider monkey.
And he's like, hold on.
And then we just sort of blast off.
I'm like, hey, I'm Eric.
He's like, I know who you are.
You've been sending a lot of emails like, OK, well, this is going to be a short ride.
Like I'm like, God, OK, I get the single question to ask the president of a country
that just got created, even though it's been like on this like at this point,
eight month journey through unrecognized nations.
And the only question I could come up with and I'm like yelling it in his ear.
I'm like yelling it in this dude's ear.
I'm like, so you created a nation.
What advice would you give to other people who start want to start a country?
And he kind of like idols his engine a little bit.
And he seems to like consider it while the Croatian police are on one side
and like Katy Perry songs are coming from the Libra landboats.
And he's like, everybody should start their own country.
And then he just like bust out a sick 180 and then like speeds me back to the boat
and deposits me there.
And I'm like, like, I don't know if I'm impressed.
I don't know if like this is how nations will be created in the future.
I like I'm I'm just sort of like dumbstruck by a failed referendum
and subsequent violent conflict in Kurdistan, but it up against.
A boat party and a president on a jet ski in the middle of the Danube.
And so I'm just like standing on the boat and I start talking to the foreign secretary.
And he's like, so where's the final stop on your trip?
I'm like, oh, I'm going to go to I'm going to go to Somali land.
The it's like an autonomous region in northern Somalia.
And he's like, we have an embassy there.
It's like all these nation states that are trying to become nation states
are like they did somehow.
Yeah, they recognize one another.
Yeah. And they're the first ones.
Yeah. They're the early adopters.
That's right. Yeah.
And so he's like, you want to stay at the embassy?
And I was like, I mean, yeah, totally.
Yeah, that sounds great.
And so I have like a little bit of downtime in between going to Somali land
and I'm kind of waiting in Bulgaria.
And I am not hearing anything from him.
You know, the brass at Lieberland, and so I start sending like furious text message.
I mean, you know, polite, but firm text messages.
I'm like, hey, remember when you said I could stay at the embassy in Somali land?
Because like at this point, I have no money, like all my resources are drained.
And like, there's no way to stay like safely in, you know, Somali land.
It's a safer place in the Horn of Africa, but it's not the safest.
And I think I had like $300.
So I really needed to stay somewhere and so I get a call from the president.
And he's like, so we had a problem and I'm like, what's the problem?
And he's like, well, we lost our ambassador to Somali land.
So I'm like, fuck.
There's no way I can like just show up in Somali land, not knowing anybody,
not knowing like anything or not having a place to stay.
And so I'm like, I don't know what I'm going to do at this point.
And then he's like, well, I don't know if this would mess up your book,
but like, would you want to do that?
I'm like, what?
And he's like, do you want to be the Libra land ambassador to Somali land?
I was like, can I stay at the embassy?
And he's like, I mean, yeah, but you also have to do stuff for us.
And I was like, yeah, okay, totally.
So I became the Libra land ambassador to Somali land.
Are you still currently the Libra ambassador to Somali land?
No, I was just the.
Are you resigned?
I resigned.
Yes.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
I was there for like six weeks.
Um, if you, I don't know if you, if you look up my Instagram,
you can probably find my embassy.
Wow.
Yeah.
So you went there.
Yeah.
So I went there and like in the.
Where exactly is Somali land?
Somali land.
Somali land.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like in the.
Where exactly is Somali land?
So you have the Horn of Africa.
And you basically take the full top part of it.
Right.
Um, so goes up into the horn and then on the horn is another sort of
unrecognized nation called Puntland.
And then there's federal Somalia.
Then there's federal Somalia.
Of course, according to federal Somalia, according to federal Somalia in Mogadishu,
the entire Horn of Africa is theirs.
Um, but Somali land is trying to create its own autonomous state on the Horn of
Africa.
Can you zoom out so we can see like the whole bottom of Africa?
Okay.
There you go.
Yeah.
So if you look up Hargeza.
Capital of Somali land.
That's right.
Wow.
Google recognizes it.
Google recognizes it, but probably with a dotted line.
That'd be my guess.
So we click on the map.
That's, uh, that's called the, the breasts of Hargeza.
Those mountains.
Ah, this dotted line, red dotted line.
That's just around the city as far as I know.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
But if you go back a little bit more.
Yeah.
Oh, it doesn't even have a dotted line.
Hmm.
Yeah.
So in the beginning, I basically had two jobs as ambassador to Somali or in the
beginning, I had like two jobs as acting ambassador from Libra land to Somali land.
Hmm.
First job was to buy furniture for the embassy because there was just, it was just like an
empty mansion.
Hmm.
And then the second one was to like establish diplomatic relations between Libra land and
Somali land.
I'm like, I have no idea what any of that means, but like,
Sounds fun.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
Let's, I can buy furniture.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Let's figure out that other stuff too.
So they had set me up with a contact who was like their attache to the UAE and he was like
building roads in Somali land.
Okay.
And so he kind of gave me a contact in the Somali land government.
So I ended up having like a meeting with the vice president Somali land.
And it was astounding at this point because I was like, like, I'm just some dude who was
on the back of a jet ski.
Like I, I, I'm just like, I just showed up in Somali land.
I have no idea what's going on right now, but like I have to go ambassador.
And I was shocked because like when I, as soon as I got in front of the vice president of
Somali land, I was like, all right, let's just say whatever a politician would say.
Like let's try and say diplomatic stuff.
And I was like, oh, oh yeah.
So that's Abdul Rahman.
He was my, he was like my, my main contact.
Okay.
And he kind of plugged me into the, the infrastructure of Somali land.
Incredible guy.
Sadly he's passed.
Oh no.
How did he die?
I don't know.
But, but he truly, truly incredible man.
Yeah.
Really, really wonderful human being right now.
We're in the middle of the Somali desert because that relates to the third job that I had when
I spent about like a week in the country and then all the internet just kind of shut off.
And I had no idea what was going on.
And I went to the sort of like local international hotel and I was like, do you guys have internet?
And they're like, no, there's, there's no internet anywhere.
And I had like zero clue what had happened in the country.
When the internet came back on, we found out that a cyclone had blown through the country cyclone
sagar.
And yeah, there we go.
This is news from our embassy in Hargeza Somali land.
Thank you, Eric.
Currently working on getting aid cyclone victims on behalf of Lieberland underscore or we will
have food to 100 families before EID.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the third goal that I had other than buying furniture and establishing diplomatic relations
was to deliver aid.
And I'm like, I'm a Peace Corps volunteer.
Like I taught English to Albanians for two years and like worked on a mobile library.
I have no idea how to deliver aid.
And specifically I have no idea how to get money into Somali land.
So I'm like, so I started like a Somali bank account on behalf of Lieberland.
And that was a wild conversation because like I literally had to go to a bank in Hargeza
and be like, I am the ambassador from Lieberland to Somali land.
And I would like to use your bank as our official embassy treasury.
I have no idea what they thought I was, but they thought it was hilarious.
They like, they opened up this bank account.
But then when the cyclone came through, I was talking with the secretary of state and he's
like, well, that's not going to work because we can't get the money there soon enough.
And we need to get it to our, you know, our aid team.
And I'm like, who's the aid team?
They're like, it's you.
I'm like, oh, nice.
Good.
And so they transferred money to the guy who I was working on his office, the Syrian guy
and Bitcoin.
And then he just like handed me $15,000, like in cash.
In US cash?
Yeah.
The money in Somali land is kind of funny, to say the least.
So it's like, it's so depreciated from inflation that it's, it's you, you pay for things and
like blocks of cash or you use like sort of a digital transfer where you text somebody
to bring a certain amount of cash.
So like the de facto currency is the US dollar.
So I just had like $15,000, which was like super unsatisfying how few bills that was.
Like I was kind of hoping for like a big metal case or something, but it was just, you know,
small stack like that of $100 bills.
And I'm like, okay, well, I have to use this money to, yeah, there's Puntland.
I have to use this money in order to figure out how we deliver aid.
And so again, I go meet with the vice president.
I think if you go to my Instagram, you can see a picture of me with the vice president
and and Abdul Rahman.
Sorry, I'm sending you all over the world.
I'm out of any pirates.
No, no, that's, I was, I was pretty far from the ocean.
I did go to the ocean at one point to a port called Berbera.
But it's, I mean, Somalia is a big place.
And so that, that certainly is an element that exists in Somalia, but it's not, it's
not like, you know, you're, you're not seeing like, you know, people being like, I'm a pirate.
Right.
At least I didn't.
So it's like a largely nomadic culture.
How far is that from the Red Sea?
I think it took me about two hours to get there.
Okay.
That was, that was a weird road trip because so this is a total sidebar, but like there's
this one hotel that's kind of like the international hotel in the area.
And I walk in one day and there's this white dude there and like we stand out in Somalia.
Like, definitely stand out.
And this guy sees me in the coffee shop and he stands up and he's like, you want to have
coffee with us?
I'm like being a guest.
And so he's with, from what I understood, a preacher, Reverend Anthony.
And his, this guy is named Robbie and he was also with like a Chinese student that was
studying in Ethiopia.
And I'm like, what, what are you guys doing in Hargiza right now?
And they're like, what are you doing in Hargiza right now?
And I'm like, yeah, I guess, I mean, whatever store you have probably isn't as weird.
So fair point.
And so what they were doing, Robbie used to be in the American military.
Reverend Anthony was his preacher.
They connected while he was in, I guess, some military school in Coronado.
And I never quite got an understanding of who the Chinese student was.
He didn't speak anything that I spoke.
But Robbie spoke Cantonese and he also speaks Swedish.
And so what he was there to do was to open businesses in what he called blue water markets.
So anytime there was, there is some geopolitically unstable area.
He goes in and he has manufacturing in China and he decides to sell cell phones or whatever in these areas.
And the dude had a passport like that.
I mean, if anybody, he was a fascinating guy.
But anyway, I think you can see Reverend Anthony.
I don't know if you have my Instagram up.
But anyway, so anyway, we're having coffee for a bit.
I tell him that I'm the Liberland ambassador to Somaliland.
And he's like, oh, cool.
Well, we're going on a road trip to Berbera tomorrow.
Do you want to come?
I'm like, I mean, I'd like to, but to travel outside of Hargiza, you need armed guards.
And I'm like, I don't have the money for armed guards.
And he's like, oh, it's fine.
We got him.
I'm like, okay.
So decided to just like get in this like small convoy with Robbie, Bishop Anthony,
and then this, this like Chinese student that was calling himself David.
And we just like went sightseeing together.
Like we went to these caves and saw like old cave paintings.
Then we went to Berbera port and we're like just sort of looking around.
And we're like, yeah, it's a support.
Yeah.
So I'm going to start a cell phone business here.
I'm like, cool.
Literally none of that made it into the book because I'm like, I have no idea what happened.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Super interesting dude.
But anyway, yeah.
So the, so Cyclone comes through.
I have to figure out how to deliver aid, meet with the vice president again.
And I'm like, okay, we're trying to make an aid delivery on behalf of Liberland to Somaliland.
All I'm asking is we provide translators and guards to take us out to the affected area.
And will you give us an idea of like, you know, what we, what these people's needs are.
And he's like, fine.
And so I take, I think it was like $8,000, me and Abdul Rahman.
And we just bought like tons of food.
We brought, we bought like, I think it was like bags of flour, oil, sugar, salt.
And just all these workmen just sort of loaded it up into this enormous car, enormous truck.
And they drove it out in the center of the desert.
And I was like, okay, great.
We've delivered aid.
And then Abdul Rahman is like, no, no, like, you know, that's not delivering aid.
Like, I'm like, what are you talking about?
Like we, we sent the food out there, right?
And he's like, no, like you have to go out there because like we need pictures and stuff.
I'm like, oh, right.
Like diplomatic aid is soft power.
So it's not enough that like we're just giving food to people who need food.
It's a matter, what matters is the story around the aid, right?
And so we all traveled out to the middle of the desert to find this group of, of nomads who are really affected by it.
So the cyclone had come through, pulled a lot of water pumps out of the, out of the ground where they were irrigating their, their animals.
A lot of the wealth in Somaliland is kept in the form of goats, killed a lot of goats, even killed a lot of the, the, the people in the area.
But then there are also these, these second knock on effects of a disaster because when you don't have this sort of robust system to deal with a disaster like a cyclone,
then there are these secondary effects, which are even worse.
So nobody has pumps to get clean water.
So suddenly there's a collar outbreak.
And so we drive for like eight hours through the desert.
We're in the center of just this sweltering, sweltering heat, you know, nothing but mountains and a couple of like improvised structures around us,
sort of like these stick tents and nobody's there.
And I go up to Abdul Rahman.
I'm like, where is everybody?
He's like, Oh, there they had deaths from cholera today.
Oh, yeah.
So this is over there is the vice president of Somaliland at the time.
On my left is Abdul Rahman.
I don't know if you can tell I'm the one in the white shirt.
Oh shit.
Okay. I see now.
Yeah. Yeah.
I have the glasses.
Right.
Yeah.
Your hair looks great.
Thanks.
Um, but you know, we're, we're just sort of sitting there in this empty village and he's like, we've got to wait for people to come back from the funeral.
And I'm like, Oh God, like can't, this doesn't seem like a photo op time.
Like, can't we just leave the food for the people?
And he's like, no, no, you know, this is, this is the point.
This is what we're doing.
And I'm like, it was at that point that I was like, you know,
Hearts and minds.
Exactly.
I'm not an aid worker.
I'm a political tool.
Right.
And that just like, so the, the sort of head of the village is walking me through and he's, he's, he's showing me the, the affected areas where the pumps had been taken out.
And all of the, all of the, the goats that I mean, they looked like, they looked like stone because they'd been sort of sandblasted.
And they, they died to sort of embedded into the, into the ground.
I think you can probably see some of them.
And he showed me all of these, these goats that look like they're running away from the storm.
But of course that's like, that's their wealth.
And he's telling me, you know, we need this, we need that, we need the other things.
You know, we need new pumps.
We need livestock again.
You know, food's great, but we need all of these things.
And I'm listening to him and I'm telling him through my translator.
Like, I'll relate all this information back to Libra land.
I'll relate all this back.
But at the same time, I'm also like, I know that my job here was to be a political tool and it wasn't to have sustained aid.
And it was at that point where I was like, you know, as a, as an acting politician for like the briefest amount of time,
I realized so quickly that like, I was behaving like a politician.
I was, you know, the beneficiary of respect that I didn't earn because I was just operating on behalf of something that was slightly more powerful than myself.
People were treating me in a way that was like respectful and different.
People were treating me in a way that was, people were treating me in a way that was respectful and full of deference because they assumed that I had power,
which I got because I was just on the back of a random jet ski.
And I was, I was acting as the role determined that I acted.
Like, I'll tell the president, but I didn't know at that point, like, is it, is it cruel for me to give this person a certain amount of hope that Libra land will come and help them more?
And so I came back from that day after delivering aid.
And I was like, I like, I don't know.
Like, I was the beneficiary of, you know, the illusion of state backed power.
I was a political tool for a photo op.
I brought food to people.
Cool.
But like, to what end?
Right.
Is it just to gain recognition?
I mean, it's interesting, man.
It's like a, it's like this, just like very, the very smallest scale of what some of the biggest nations in the, in the world to do on just a massive scale.
Yeah.
And that's, that's one of the things that you notice in smaller countries where, you know, the writing on the wall is so much clearer, right?
That a nation has to push to gain recognition in whatever way possible.
Again, it's like that, that concept of how do you, how do you generate consent?
Not just of the governed, but how do you generate consent to do business with you as a place that's doing your best to carve out a new line on a map?
How do you get somebody to say, I'm here and you're here?
And, you know, you can do that at the end of a gun.
That's the way it's been done throughout a lot of history, or like a sword.
But you can also do that through gifts, through aid.
And, yeah, those are.
Oh, look, is that one of the goats?
Those are, yeah.
Yeah, it's, it was, I mean, the day, fun, oddly enough, the day after, like I'd basically done all the other, you know, like I gave aid and I,
and I made diplomatic relations with Somaliland, you know.
Yeah.
And, and then I had been like putting off buying furniture, because I was like, I don't, I don't really care how much furniture costs.
I'm going to try and give as much money to the aid donation as possible.
Right.
And so like my last week, I was like, I got to buy furniture for this embassy, like I said, I would do it.
So I went out with one of my buddies and just went like to, I guess the Somaliland version of an Ikea.
We were just like looking at bed frames and offices.
And there was a surprising amount of bed frames that like glow in the dark and had like lion heads roaring on them.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, really fancy.
That sounds pretty cool, actually.
It was, but I was like, this is not embassy furniture.
Yeah.
I did think briefly like get them like the glow in the dark lion head furniture.
I didn't do that though.
So I ended up buying them the furniture.
As far as I know, the Liberland embassy in Harghiza is still going.
Really?
Yeah.
I think so.
With your furniture that you got?
With, with Liberland's furniture.
With Liberland's furniture.
Yes.
That Liberland got.
Yeah.
That, that, are you looking up Somali?
Somali furniture?
Trying to find the lion head glow in the dark furniture.
I mean, we went to like a couple of stores and it was like a theme.
Yeah.
I was like, you know, it was like, how do you think, how do you think about the, like
after all these crazy experiences, like seeing what it's like on the ground, like dealing
with these people firsthand, which you didn't expect to experience, but it was a great learning
experience.
Yeah.
How do you think about like what's going on, for example, between Israel and Palestine?
Don't know at all.
No.
No.
You know, I was, so when I was, when I was, you know, briefly an analyst, like my area
was like, I was researching a lot of the Levantine area.
So like Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan.
Yeah.
But pretty much Southern Turkey over to Iran.
I never once like touched on Israel and Palestine.
Well, talking about what, like the way, the way you're speaking about like these states
and how they look at the future in the past, Israel is a very interesting one.
Super.
Probably one of the most interesting ones they have from people I've talked to.
They have like the best intelligence agency that exists on earth.
And like, like person for person, like I don't, if there was a war between the US and Israel,
I don't think, I don't think that they would win the war.
But when it comes to like their intelligence apparatus, it is far more effective and they're
willing to go way farther than we're willing to go.
And I think in Israel, I think the citizens are, it's mandatory they have to serve in
the military for a certain amount of time.
So I mean, like I said, I, you know, I've never, I really have not ever researched Israel
and Palestine that much because my work really never touched on it.
And also specifically with this book anyway, you are not here, travels through countries
that don't exist.
With that, I tried to stay away from kind of the, you know, the big like highly politically
charged, unrecognized nations because I mean, especially in the case of Palestine, I think
the last thing that the world needs is like some dude from Los Angeles being like, I got
it guys.
Right.
I figured it out.
For sure.
Yeah.
But I think that to your point, but they, like what I'm saying is like, when you think about
that and you think about Israel, it's like, like they have more of a like national galvanizing
for lack of a better word story than anybody, like look at the history.
It's a great one.
Yeah.
Look at the history of Israel.
And like, like if anyone has more will to continue to thrive into the future, it's them.
Well, I mean, I'm sure there's other countries too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I think that that from, from one perspective, you should look at the, the
constraints and imperatives of Israel.
Right.
You know, they're a, they're a small nation and they are surrounded by antagonistic nations
to them.
So what does that necessitate that you do?
Like turn everybody into a soldier, like have an incredible defense apparatus, right?
Have strong international relations.
That's the imperative there.
Okay.
They're constrained by their landmass because they don't have, like they're constrained
by their landmass because they don't have the natural buffers that we have.
Right.
So that's a big part of it.
But I think, I mean, and in terms of, of national story, sure, I mean, you know, according
to, I wouldn't speak for an Israeli, but like it goes back to the Bible times.
So right.
Like that's, that's a pretty compelling story.
Yes.
You know, I mean, I think that when I think about the countries that I stayed away from,
I mean, largely I was constrained by the fact that like one, I didn't know I was going to
go throughout all of these other unrecognized countries because I didn't think I was going
to be a band from Turkey, you know, crazy.
But the other thing was like, I, I wanted to sort of shine a light on this conversation
as it is globally.
Like these aren't the only unrecognized nations that, that exist in the world.
There's literally probably about a hundred of them as far as I know.
And that's, you know, there's, you look at Taiwan too, you know, there's partial recognition
of Taiwan, Tibet is another one of these areas.
There's constant independence movements in, in Spain, obviously, Romania even has, has
an independent contingent in it.
So I think that there are, there are independence movements in the Transylvanian area.
So this is, this is kind of indicative of where we're moving globally, in my opinion
anyway, because now the things that previously, you know, we're not a part of empires anymore.
Like we're not a part of the Ottoman Empire, the, the time of empire is, is largely spent.
And now we're, as you say, like trying to become a global community.
But what does a global community mean?
Can you separate your own national identity away from the pool of wealth that your nation
controls and its ability to do violent force, presumably on your behalf?
And that I don't know.
You know, what, it kind of goes back to the question about like us as Americans, right?
So without the American military, without it being wealthy and presumably prosperous
nation, like what, what makes us Americans?
I think, so here's a good thought experiment that I think about sometimes.
Let's say, you know, America goes away.
And there's, there's a huge refugee population of, of Americans, people calling themselves
Americans who have spread throughout the entire world.
How do we group up?
You know, how do we what?
How do we group up?
Okay.
Let's say there's, you know, an American contingent in, you know, Beijing.
Do we have a America town?
Like do we carve out our own, you know, little neighborhood where only Americans go?
I don't know.
Probably not.
I think we would, I think we would separate differently from that because it again, it
goes back to the individual nature.
It goes back to the individual nature of being an American.
Would we go back to whatever our previous nationality was?
I don't know.
Like how do you find those people who believe the same national story as you do?
And because of that, even though you don't know that person, you have a shared affinity
with them.
Right.
I mean, right now we're seeing this movement of people who are, I think they're, they're
calling them the passport bros.
So yeah, like there's the, there are these golden passport schemes and this is huge in
the crypto universe where it's like, okay, well, I have a bunch of wealth, but the U.S.
makes it really difficult to cash out my cryptocurrency or it's, you know, my, my businesses
are not protected in any sort of legal framework in the United States.
So what do I do?
Get a new passport.
Malta is like this huge place for this.
You get a Maltese passport, suddenly you get access to the EU and they have pretty liberal
laws in terms of, of working with alternative finance.
And so we're already seeing wealthier classes of people start to find alternatives to their
citizenship so that they can benefit more.
Wow.
And there's even, oh man, um, this is such a great point and I can't remember what it's
called exactly.
The seafarer movement.
Can you look that up?
Seafarer?
Oh, this is crazy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is really dope.
It's like billionaires who are starting their own nations on the sea.
Try seafarer or Peter Thiel.
Libertarian seasteading utopia from Peter Thiel.
Whoa.
What is this?
Silicon Valley billionaires dream of a floating libertarian utopia may have finally been killed.
Peter Thiel's dreams of, okay, that's the same title.
Keep going down.
Wow.
What was this all about?
So the, the, the seasteading movement from what I understood was, was again, it's this,
this movement where you can have all the benefits of coming from, you know, whatever
nation you come from, but you can also, uh, resist any detriments that come in the form
of taxation.
Ah, okay.
Right?
So, hey, I don't live in America anymore.
I live on these crazy libertarian boats or maybe on an island in the Danube River or
in the Metaverse.
Right.
And now you don't have to pay taxes.
This is, this is the thing that I'm talking about about the statehood as a service model.
Right?
It's, it's citizenship that provides for you the things that a nation provides for you,
but it's essentially the wealth and protection of the nation state without actually the culture
or the story of the nation state.
Right.
So if you're a guy who's like a billionaire like Peter Thiel living on a yacht, being
a seafarer, you're still, you can still have businesses in America and make tons of money,
you don't have to pay taxes, but you just don't get, but can you still benefit from
having residents there?
I have no idea.
So if you were a seafarer like this, would you be able to legally be a citizen of the
United States as well as like some other country?
So there are certain countries that allow for like dual citizenship.
Yeah.
Um, and the U.S. is like one of the, if one of the two countries in the world that taxes
you no matter where you live, actually weirdly, the other one is Eritrea.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, so that I don't quite understand.
Well, that's an interesting thing that people always complain about and then like on media
too.
They complain about like all the billionaires like, like Elon and Bezos and Zuckerberg like
putting all their bank accounts overseas so they don't have to pay taxes, right?
So what happens if you put your life overseas so you don't have to pay taxes, right?
Then you, you, this is, this is sort of spelled out in a book, um, it's actually pretty haunting.
Uh, I think it was written in 1997, it's called the sovereign individual.
And so what it does is it, um, uh, it, uh, predicts the rise of, uh, the failure of nation
states to provide what citizens would need or want and the rise of self sovereign individuals
who can provide their own goods, services and protection, right?
Right.
Right.
And then I, I'm, and you'll see in the book, uh, like I'm, I'm of a couple of minds about
like the libertarian leanings that, that exist, especially in the, the cryptocurrency space
and in, um, uh, in Lieberland, certainly, because I think that there's like two ways
that you end up becoming a hardcore libertarian.
And it's like, one, you're wealthy enough to afford only private services.
Yes.
Right?
Yeah.
Right.
Your state's collapsed.
And suddenly you're a libertarian overnight because the state isn't there to provide any
services for you.
So suddenly you just became a libertarian.
And so I think the people on the one side of things where they've become wealthy enough
to afford only private services to sort of dance in between the borders of the world and
to, uh, to fund themselves beyond borders and oftentimes laws, they look at the rest
of the state-based population and they're like, well, we did, why can't you?
And it's like, well, because it takes a lot of capital to sort of reach the escape velocity
of the nation state.
Right.
And at the point that you reach that escape velocity, you're not believing that national
story anymore because you just don't care, in my opinion.
Right.
Yeah, man.
That's probably true.
Like what does the U.S. do for you at the point that you provide your own protection?
You provide your own health care.
You provide your own everything.
If you move out to a boat.
Well, at some point, like, okay, let's take, let's take Elon Musk, for example.
He relies on a lot of government contracts for like his businesses like SpaceX or Tesla
or whatever it may be.
So he kind of depends on the U.S. for this stuff.
So if the U.S. wanted to strong arm him into paying taxes, they could.
They could say, okay, we're just going to get rid of all your contracts and basically
like choke off all, all this money from your companies.
Same thing with, with, um, same thing with Bezos, right?
Because the U.S. could, if they wanted to, they could decide to restrict Amazon or like
put the, their boot on the neck of Amazon and sort of like cut off.
Like that, that's what's happening with, um, that's what's similar to what's happening
with in the FDA right now with, um, supplement products.
So there's, there's in the FDA and with pharmaceutical companies, they, I don't know if you're familiar,
but they have.
Yeah.
I heard your bet on that.
There's these patents, right?
These patent laws where pharmaceutical companies can get, basically get patents on certain
drugs and make a ton of fucking money, um, on these drugs, but there's this weird blurry
line between certain supplements and patentable drugs.
And, um, if one of these big pharmaceutical companies or the F, which they work in cahoots
with the FDA, like they, they literally like somebody who works for the FDA can get hired
to work at a pharmaceutical company and it's like a revolving door.
So if the FDA decides that they want to help this pharmaceutical company by making this
supplement, a quote unquote drug under patent, they, the FDA can strong arm Amazon into taking
all that shit off of Amazon.
So the government can do things to manipulate these big companies that these like billionaires
oligarchs, um, rely on.
It's totally accurate, but when we say the government, you're talking about the American
government.
Yeah.
And suddenly we're seeing the fact that America is the only game in town.
You know, there's an enormous amount of wealth that's coming up in China, in Southeast Asia,
in Africa, especially, um, there's an enormous amount of wealth there.
And when you have a business, let's say a digital business where, you know, you're, you're
trading bits and not Adams, then you'll put your business in whatever country is the most
permissive and it has the best deal for you.
So yeah, certainly the U.S. could, uh, you know, stomp on, on, uh, Elon Musk's companies.
But what would the U.S. miss out on?
Right.
What wouldn't they have access to?
Right.
You know, and, and a lot of, a lot of the, uh, you know, a lot of the ethos has been privatized
in the U.S., right?
Is R&D, um, and, and stimulate businesses that are doing things in our national interest.
Right.
So if you stomp on businesses that are within your national interest, then what happens to
your country?
Hmm.
You know, and this is, this is the, the dangerous thing about money not caring about borders.
And so what happens then when there's an enormous amount of fiscal flight to more permissive
areas, like what happens to the, the people that are left within those borders?
Are they just customers that are stuck believing a national story?
Right.
I mean, I, I, I don't know.
I mean, the, the, the sovereign, the sovereign individual sort of predicts that everybody
will have a certain amount of sovereignty, but this will come after a period of, you
know, chaos as people are, are emerging from sovereign nation states where their identity
is plugged into a nation state to being a global citizen.
Yeah.
And I mean, like they're, and of course in the sort of like conspiracy theorist community,
there's like this huge antagonism towards like, well, they want one world government
and it's like, like one who's they, um, and yeah, so I hear from, from the, the YouTube
videos that I watch at like three o'clock in the morning, um, tin foil hats strapped
on.
Um, but yeah, it's like, what do we progress towards?
Do we progress towards, uh, uh, globe that's just dominated by one power?
Or is it a group of nation states that are subject to the most powerful nation state?
I don't know.
I think it ultimately depends on our reassessing of what national identity is and can you separate
that away from, again, military power and financial power?
Like does that happen?
I don't know.
I can't even fucking wrap my head around what that would look like.
I can't either.
I like, there was, there's, there's some really cool sci-fi books about these things kind of
happening.
Um, really?
Yeah.
Um, there's one, oh, it's a fantastic book called, uh, Forever War.
Um, it's not, there's a, there's a forever war book by Dexter Filkins, um, and that's,
that's about Iraq.
Um, but then Forever War is about, I think it's by Joe Halderman, um, and it was written
in the 1970s, I want to say, incredible, incredible book, but it's about this soldier who's sort
of shipped off to, um, war and he has to, uh, on another planet, you know, some galaxy
far, far away and he has to go through a wormhole every single time.
So every single time he leaves and comes back, like, Earth is like a couple hundred years
in the future.
Right.
It's super cool.
He stays the same age.
He stays the same age and also since his like military paycheck is like constantly getting
dumped into his account, since he constantly gets paid from his like military paycheck,
he's like wealthy beyond imagination and he doesn't really know what to do with himself
and this was, this was a, uh, uh, a book from what I understand, it was a book about the
sort of dislocation that soldiers returning from Vietnam felt as soon as they came back
to the United States.
And so in one of these versions of Earth that the soldier comes back to, um, the, the world
had, or at least the United States has sort of subdivided into, um, these farming communes,
which are, um, you know, they are, they're well fed, uh, but they're also sort of work
courses.
Um, and then there's sort of like decadent city centers, which are quite dangerous and
people are doing more like, um, knowledge based labor, but everybody's sort of scrapping
to find work.
And so you have like these, this massive polarization in the community of the United
States.
And so if we have, and sometimes they even, this isn't the exact same topic, but they
call this the, the barbell economy.
And this is something that we'll see, you know, that people predict we'll see with, with AI,
which is like, you'll have an economy that instead of going, you know, like this, where
you have like people earning more and more.
And then in the center, you have this sort of, like I said, a robust middle class, you'll
only have people who are like the laborers on one side, and then the sort of like highly
paid technocrats on the other side.
And then everybody else would be sort of operating on like UBI, um, which I think is in the book.
Yeah.
Wow, man.
Well, we just did like four hours.
Did we?
Yeah.
Almost like three, three hours and 45 minutes.
Look at that.
So thanks.
Happy.
You just broke my brain.
Sorry, dude.
Happy, uh, happy Independence Day.
Happy Fourth of July.
Yes.
Happy Fourth of July.
Happy Independence Day.
Perfect day to drop this.
Everybody, uh, go out and buy.
You are not here.
Where can they buy it?
Where, where, where is they, where are they finding this book?
So this will just be on Amazon for right now.
You can get it in, uh, paper, you know, um, so you can get it in paperback or you
can get it in digital, um, and then other stores to come.
Uh, I think it's right now just in, in wherever Amazon ships to in, um, Europe and the United
States.
Perfect.
Um, more places to come.
Um,
Where are you going next?
Where?
So many places, man.
Um, uh, so I'm going, uh, to, uh, I'm going to New York.
Yeah.
I'm actually just going to friends' weddings.
I'm not going in there.
Okay.
Interesting at all.
Yeah.
I'm going to go back to Albania and like, like chill out for a while.
Yeah.
It's been, uh, it's been a lot of pushing on this book to, to make it happen.
Um, so, so yeah, I mean, there are some other thoughts, the projects that I want to do with
like weird travel stuff.
Um, I kind of want to do back to the Arctic.
So that's one thought of it.
And it kind of is like a, a future book.
Um, I was thinking about doing this like travel book about like how to love the future.
Um, because it's like, I don't think anybody takes seriously that the human race is going
to stick around for a thousand years.
Right.
Right.
But like, don't we have to get off the planet?
Yeah, man.
And so it's like, I'm, I'm curious about, um, I'm curious about like places and technology
that actually sees that as a serious thing.
Um, and actually in, in the Arctic in Svalbard, they kind of have a project where, uh, where
they're doing this kind of work where they have the, uh, the Arctic seed vault, which
is this crazy vault that's built under a mountain and obviously Svalbard is as close
to the North Pole as you can get, you know, where there's human habitation.
And so they have all of the world's seeds, um, that are donated by seed banks of respective
nations.
Yeah.
So that if there is a cataclysmic event and some type of species is wiped out, um, then
they can go back to the, the seed vault in Svalbard, which is under this mountain.
Yeah.
And they've been used a couple of times in Syria.
That's wild.
And on top of that, they also have, I want to say it's like the, uh, global memory project,
which is, um, a store of the world's data.
And it's literally in a mine.
Like I went to, and nobody's allowed in it.
Like even the king of Norway is not allowed in, um, and it's sort of operated as like
a global service to the, the, the world on behalf of Norway.
Um, and so the memory project is like, okay, so we have this, if you look up the seed vault,
it actually looks like a level from, um, uh, 007.
Yeah.
Oh, that's the seed vault.
I've seen this.
Yeah.
It's cool, huh?
That looks like something from Star Wars.
Super.
Yeah.
It's not, it's not as big and impressive as you think.
No.
Which is unfortunate, but it, if you, you have to go into this mine to actually see the entrance
of it, and it's like super highly, highly guarded.
What do they keep in there?
People's fucking crypto wallets?
I have no idea.
Um, they didn't, just the seeds.
They didn't let me in.
Um, no, they, they keep seeds in there, but then they also keep, um, like treasure troves
of the world's data.
Oh my God.
But the, the, the thing that they told me about it, which is really interesting is that they're
like, we're kind of at, we have a problem.
It's called the global memory project.
They're like, we have a problem because like, again, if we take this whole, you know, the
human race is going to be around for the next thousand years, even if there's some sort
of cataclysm, um, we have the problem of the decay of the data.
Like what do we store it on?
And you know, I'm at the bottom of this mine with this like, you know, really nice Norwegian
tour guide.
And she's like, you know, the, the future of this is really storing data on DNA because
like it won't, it won't decay at the same rate.
And we're just, I'm just like in the middle of a mind listening to this lady talk about
storing like the world's information on DNA.
It's so, yeah.
So that's one thought.
That is some spooky shit, man.
Super, super.
And then, yeah, I mean, I don't know, um, if somebody, if somebody wants me to do a
crazy travel thing, I'd love to do it.
The other thought is to do a back in time travel bit and recreate what's called the
hippie trail, which is a overland journey from Austria to Calcutta, um, that hippies
used to do back in the 60s was only around for like 10 years or so.
But it's not around now because like, you know, it goes through Afghanistan.
It goes through Iran.
And I had an idea of like doing it with no technology that existed past 1969.
Oh, that's great.
It'd be cool.
Yeah, you'd have to film the whole thing.
Exactly.
The only technology to be allowed to have is cameras.
No, no, no, film it on film.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Fuck yeah.
Be really cool.
That would be great.
If anybody wants to pay me to do that, it'd be pretty cool, man.
Well, we'll get you back in here and talk about it.
Absolutely.
Talk about that shit, too.
Dude, thanks so much for having me.
Honestly, again, huge fan.
All right.
Good night, bitches.
