Thank you so much for coming down here and doing this.
It's an honor and I'm very grateful for you guys spending the time and we timed it perfectly
with your birthday and we had a quite an amazing experience last night on the beach.
So what was it we were seeing last night on the beach?
That's the first time I've ever seen anything like that.
It's also the first time I've ever stared at the sky for that long, I think.
There was a lot of air traffic, we could see a lot of planes flying around, we could
tell what they were.
There was obviously a very dense highway of airplanes landing in Tampa that were coming
off the beach.
But there were some things that we saw that were definitely not airplanes that were moving
in weird directions with the lights getting very bright and then going very dim to where
we couldn't see them anymore.
What were those orbs?
Well they were the orbs and the question of what are they is an ongoing study of research
that we're all trying to figure out.
It would have been much closer but I think all the traffic and the population from the
beach kind of makes it more shy.
So to sort of give you an introduction, Chris, out of all the people that I've talked to
involved in this phenomenon, I have a lot of people on the podcast before who have spoken
about it and studied it for years and it seems to be the consensus that you are one of the
most if not the most credible person that has ever experienced this phenomenon.
As I told you earlier, my friend Andy Bustamante who was here a couple of weeks ago was telling
me that through all of his experience filming that show that he was doing for History Channel,
the Beyond Skinwalker show, the night that he spent with you witnessing those orbs in
the sky, out of everything else he said that was the one thing that stuck out to him the
most and it was the one thing that was truly unexplainable and real at the same time.
Hey guys, I want to ask you a quick favor.
Over the last few months, almost 70% of the viewers of this podcast are not subscribed
to the channel.
The most important common denominator that allows me to keep creating these podcasts every
single week is you hitting that subscribe button below the videos.
I want to thank every single one of you who watches and supports these podcasts.
I would not be able to do it without you.
Please hit that subscribe button if you enjoy it.
Now back to the show.
There's more people in the government and aerospace scientists that seem to be really
interested in you, the CIA, DIA, FBI, NRO, and even the Vatican seem to be very interested
in you and they also seem to have their hands in this.
So can you go ahead and explain how this whole thing started for you?
I mean, I know you've told a bunch of the stories before on other podcasts and your
book goes through it very well, UFO of God.
Incredible book.
Thank you.
Incredible book.
This, nearly 17 years ago, we were, let's say over 17 years ago, in 2006 we had sold
a company that was going down the tubes because of the desert, not the desert storm, but the
911 attack when they blew up the World Trade Center.
I got caught with too many houses for sale.
I was a builder, a contractor, and had been successful for nearly 20 years and building
anywhere from 80 to 120 homes a year.
My wife and I had a Remax Realty Company.
She sold them.
I built them.
But when they destroyed the tower, it locked the Fort Bragg, which is where we live, now
called Fort Liberty, I think, but it'll always be Bragg to me.
So the soldiers quit buying homes.
Most everybody did.
It just threw the housing market, and two, it was the start of the housing collapse.
It further collapsed in 2008 completely.
But I was in a bad way.
I was dealing with Crohn's disease and had been for, since I was a young guy in my 20s.
At that point, it started getting worse and worse and worse because stress makes it worse,
right?
So I had to wear stress trying to hide the fact that I'm shelling out everything I ever
own, money, apartments, was going out the window to try to keep this company at least
to pay the interest on the notes.
So we sold the company in 2005, and I'd had a near-death experience in 2004 from being
over-medicated.
It's in the book.
It's a very tragic thing that happened.
My daughter died from an overdose that he was on drugs himself, some kind of medication
he was taking, and he put 113 people in the hospital, and I was one of them.
So that was a severe setback, going through that along with what I was already dealing
with, and that was one reason the company had to be sold.
So we list fast forward to 2006.
Along about October, I accepted a job my dad arranged to go oversee a home, a big house
on the ocean at Holden Beach, North Carolina.
Four-month-long job, it was over by Christmas, and we had to finish it up to get paid to
the last 10% after Christmas on the New Year.
So I sent the guys back down to the coast to do their job and bring a check back for
the retainer, and they did, and this was January the 8th of 2007.
They called me and said, we finished the job, and we got you a check, and we want to celebrate.
Can you take us fishing in a day?
I said, well, sure, I guess.
My wife was out of town with the rest of the kids.
It was just Chris Junior or not.
And so they came in, got their checks, broke mine, or my dad's actually, and they went
to the bank and came back about two o'clock and said, let's go.
And so I followed them to their house, picked them up at 2.30, and the way we went to the
river fishing.
And this is how it all started.
The reason I went through this is because it's important, it's one of the most important
things in the world for anybody to know about this phenomenon of 17 years nearly of research
that I've been doing.
It came because I was in the worst suffering way.
I was at the bottom ready to give up on life.
I was crying out to whoever's up there, you know, help me.
Why?
I'm 45, 46 years old, and I have to get free lunches at school now for my children.
And just moving out of a million-dollar home with a pool in the back.
My kids have lived in that standard for most of their life.
So it was a big thing, and I was suffering bad from it, crying out to the skies.
I left these guys fishing.
I left them fishing about three o'clock.
I walked away, and I just never did pull out a pole.
As my son and three other guys were sitting on the bank of the Cape River, a little small
river about 70 yards wide, and I said, I'll see you later.
And I walked away about a quarter mile to the field to where we came across this cornfield.
We turned off the paved road, drove right through the middle of this field on a little
two-road dirt road to the back side and to the treeline.
And when you get to the trees, you go downhill 100 feet to the river, and before you run
into the river, you make a right and parallel to the river another eighth of a mile to a
cul-de-sac.
So it's a quarter-mile walk out of that cul-de-sac up to the hill.
When I got near the top of that hill, I noticed what I thought was the sun setting.
It's about 10 after 5, 5.15 in the evening in January, so it gets dark, about 5.30 the
sun sets.
And I'm probably 50 feet from the top of that hill, so I'm looking up at the gate.
The gate is up at the top of the hill, but you can't see the field because it's elevated,
right?
And the higher I got up, the wider my field of vision became.
So I'm looking down a road that has trees straight up on either side of me, really close.
So I have narrow field of vision.
So the closer I got to the top, I saw what I thought was the setting sun.
And so I looked down to take a few more steps because I'm walking through mud and bushes
and it's dark, almost dark where I'm at now.
And four or five more steps up that hill, and that's when the shock came.
I began to see a second one.
Instead of what I thought was the sun, the top edge of it.
When I made a few more steps up, I could see the top edge of two suns.
And I knew right then that this wasn't anything from that we had.
And the reason I knew that instantly is because I'm a commercial rated pilot and I have studied
it all my life and love it and I can name every airplane from World War II to today pretty
much.
And so shock came real quick.
I am afraid of what I'm looking at.
So I dropped to my knees using the hill to hide me from these objects.
Thought I was hiding and so I sat there and I kind of crawled out of the road to the ditch
because the weeds were real tall in the ditch.
And so I buried myself in these weeds and I start crawling, inching up the hill to where
I could see.
And I peeked my head up and they're still there.
And I don't know how long I was there standing or kneeling in these weeds, on my knees, using
these waist high grass and what we call reeds or cane, which is down near water wet areas,
right?
And I began to ponder everything I'm looking at and my son, and these guys behind me fishing,
I thought maybe I should get back down to where they are.
So I turned my body to point down hill and I'm still hiding.
I thought, you know, I've got this hill up above me.
I could raise up and I could see them.
I lowered down and I couldn't see them.
So the minute I decided to run, when I made that decision, I was thinking about it.
But when I turned my body to actually run, I looked back one more time when I stood up
to see if they were there.
And when I did that, a third one, same thing, same size, 40 foot, 50 foot round blood red
to orange balls of fire, just what we saw on the water last night.
That one of those looked like it come up out of the water that she found.
And so the next thing I remember is walking up to the fire, trotting up.
They couldn't see me because they're standing around the fire and it's burnt down to a little
campfire now and we had a big blazing fire there when I left.
And they were just standing there and I could see them from the fire glowing on them.
I didn't have a flashlight.
So they didn't know I was coming until I got right up on them.
And I said, hey, you won't believe what I just saw at the top of the hill.
And they looked at me and said, where have you been?
I said, what do you mean?
Where have I been?
I was just up at the top of the hill just 20 minutes ago.
And they said, no, you've been going on night.
And so I couldn't ponder, I couldn't imagine what they were saying.
They just did not connect with me.
I argued the fact, no, I've been going 20 minutes.
They said, no, we've been looking you all night.
And I realized Chris Jr. was missing.
And so I kind of freaked out, worried about him because I knew the direction they pointed.
He went in the back of the cul-de-sac along the bank of the Cape of River, which is real
rugged and valleys and big trees.
And it's just a place you can get lost real easy.
And he was in there looking for me.
So I took off immediately and ran to the back of that cul-de-sac, shouting for him, still
not understanding that I'd been gone but 20 minutes, right?
To me, that's what had just passed.
And when I found him, he was in shock.
He was laying on his stomach and had backed up under the undergrowth in the back of that
cul-de-sac, wouldn't answer me until I almost stepped on him.
I'm trying to get into woods to look for him, no flashlight.
And what had happened with Chris Jr. was when about an hour after I was gone, he realized
that I should have been back by now, it's dark.
So he started bugging the guys, we need to find my dad, where's he at?
So they got in the truck and drove looking for me, left one guy at the fire, and two
guys in my truck drove up and down, crossed the field, out on the highway, they went everywhere
looking for me.
Chris Jr. went on foot into the cul-de-sac because I had actually walked in there for
a little while before I went up to the field.
And he had what he saw, what he said he saw was he could see all the way down the road,
the path from the back of that cul-de-sac to where it turned and went up the hill.
So he had a good, probably a quarter mile view of that road and the trees grow over
the road so it's like a tunnel, you know, you come through real thick stuff.
And while he was looking at me, he saw a red ball of light, like an orb, he described
two red balls of light, crossed the road way up about a little less than a quarter
mile and they went in on the river side.
So he ran back to the fire, which is toward the orbs, right, had to run back towards them
and they were sitting on the bank so the road parallels the river and they're part of the
way ahead of him on the right, right on the bank.
So he runs up there and he tells them what he saw and they were like, don't kid around,
you know, you know, don't, what are you doing, Junior?
They took it as a joke, right?
He's growing man and saying, you're messing with us, Junior, don't mess with us.
So he runs back to the back of the cul-de-sac again, looking for me.
And he sees the same two balls of light come out of the river side now, back out in the
road and here they come to and towards him.
So he began to back hide, he tried to hide, so he backs himself up under this rub.
So around the field, if you're familiar with in our area and even here, the edges of any
field is really thick undergrowth.
You got all this thick stuff.
Once you get in the forest, it opens up, right?
So he's trying to hide under this thick stuff.
And what he described when I was walking him back to the fire was that these two balls
of light came all the way to him, the closer he got, the more he got afraid, then he started
hiding and they got about 15, 20 feet from him and there were two little beings about
three feet tall that had red glowing eyes.
So they looked like individual orbs when you saw them, but when they were closer, two little
eyes about this big.
And he couldn't shout, he couldn't scream.
He was paralyzed the whole time he was laying there, just afraid.
And so I took him back to the fire and funny thing was these guys were freaked out now.
They were really freaked because what I was talking about, I'd seen up at the top of the
hill and what Chris Jr. is talking about now got him even more distressed.
I mean, one of the guys shouts, look, and we all look up to the heavens and it looked
like eight or nine stars or orbs like you saw last night, these big, they were white
that they were glowing huge and white and they just went around in circles and like
they were chasing one another and they'd go out and they'd come back together and then
three of them landed in front of us about 75 yards away across the river.
And that's when pandemonium sat in.
We ran, left the poles in the water, coolers, everything they had, we just left it, jumped
in my truck and took off out of there.
And when we got back to the top of the hill where I was looking, you know, I was hiding,
well, the same three orbs are sitting there, two of them are in the same spot.
But the third one that appeared and came down is now on the road in front of us.
It's just about 150 yards away between us in the highway and we couldn't drive forward.
We didn't want to go back because we just left three on the riverbank and so you can
imagine the fear that was in, in my truck, my son, he was in bad shape.
These three guys were freaked out bad, but the weird thing, Danny, was I wasn't afraid
anymore.
I'd lost all my fear somehow.
I was curious.
I wanted to get out and walk up to it, but they weren't having a part of that.
And that was one weird thing I couldn't figure out is, is it took my fear away.
I was afraid when I first went up and saw it and to run down the hill.
But as it appeared again, I was mesmerized.
I wasn't afraid, but they were terrified.
It was everything happening from crying to, this is the last time I see my family, please
get me home.
They started fighting who was going to go home first.
It's all in the book, but that's how it all started in 2007.
So after this experience and you guys started driving the truck home, there, was there anything
else that happened after you got home?
How far away did you live from the river?
How long of a drive was it?
Okay.
That was only the beginning when we got to the field.
Now we're setting up in my truck, five of us with this object sitting in the road halfway
to the road and two up over the road.
And suddenly we heard three gunshots.
We don't know who was shooting, move on and everybody investigated that.
They went around the neighborhoods looking for witnesses and they found eight different
witnesses, how five of them are from NASA found and interviewed eight different people
that saw it that night.
They were sitting on the porch when they flew over or whatever.
So after the gunshots, this object in the road, it's not sitting on the road, it's hovering
five feet off the road.
It's about 40 to 50 foot long.
It looks like an egg or it looks like if you took a round ball or let's say a raindrop
and you set it on the ground and it just kind of flattens out, kind of egg shake.
It's the orbs around in the sky, but when it's sitting on the ground, it looks like
a football and it just pivots.
It don't turn, it don't lean, it just pivot straight at us and here it comes down the
road to us.
So it goes right over a truck about 50 feet above the truck.
I could have shot it with a slingshot through the sunroof of my truck when it went over.
And it pivots again to the north and it blasts off like a gunshot at Poo.
I took off, couldn't go fast enough for these guys.
They were screaming, yelling.
Halfway down that road to the first house we had to stop two and a half miles away.
Halfway in there is this curve, this really sharp curve, dead man's curve.
I grew up that curve, everybody in our community knew about that curve and it was so sharp
If you try to go around it more than 35, the car just bound up, you could feel it on the
edge of losing control.
And the crazy thing is, in 2000, shoot, 1982, 81, I was married to a different lady that
died, she died in that curve and I found her of all the weird things.
I was at home, I was at the coast and I came home and drove up on her after she'd turned
the car over and killed her right there.
So this orb, huge thing, was hovering right over where she got killed and we had to drive
up under it and I tried to get out, I wanted to get out and look at it and they won't have
no part of it so we had to move on.
But what it did, the reason I brought this up, is what it did, it spoke to me in a way
that I understood and these images, it went right in my head and I relived the whole thing
that happened that night in 1982 and it said, don't worry anymore.
This is not your fault because I had thought it was my fault and I should have been there
but I wasn't.
I was out of town hunting that day with my father and so I'd carried that for all those
years, this feeling of guilt and it was removed that night right away and so I had to put
that in there because it's really important to understand the phenomenon and I don't
like to talk about this but if people are going to understand it, how it reacts, it
reacts based on emotion, suffering.
Thousands of people reach out to me about this and they'll all say the same thing.
When they started seeing it, they lost a family member, they lost their husband, their wife,
their child, pretty severe suffering brings them and this is something everybody that
studies this is aware of.
So we left there, never stopped, never stopped.
We were down to about 10 miles an hour and I was trying to hit the brake and they were
pounding on my seat, go.
And so I hit the gas, ended up having to go four miles further and take the father scout
home first because they were fighting who got to go home first, dropped him off, came
back and dropped the other two guys off and then on our way home, we went the long way
because we didn't want to get back under that same curve where that orb was set and my son
didn't want any part of it.
So anyhow, we get to the house, Chris Jr. is running through the house locking every
door, turning every light on inside, outside and he would, he would go in the bathroom
even when the windows, he'd turn the light on and lock the door, he was that afraid.
I was in my study trying to find anything on TV, we just knew we were being invaded
the whole world, you know, that's what we thought.
And I couldn't find anything, it was just a normal night, you know, and it was the weirdest
thing, we couldn't compute what had just happened and nothing's going on on television.
And so when Chris gets all his lights locked and doors locked and lights on the whole house,
he runs back to where I'm at and suddenly the dogs start going crazy.
My dad lived next door, he had 15-hound dogs and a kennel, he'd raised them all his life,
he'd, upwards of 100 dogs at one time, 104, so he's always raised dogs, right?
So I know their sounds, I know their different barks and suddenly this whole pin full of
dogs is barking in a, in a fearful way, they were scared and I knew it.
The way they were sounding, anybody would have detected, they didn't know what they
were seeing but they were, they were all going, you know, loud mouths, hound dogs really are
very loud.
Imagine 15 of them all at one time, just this terrible, fearful sound.
About a year ago, I started working with this company called Merrick Health and I wanted
to get a comprehensive breakdown of what was going on inside my body, from my vitamin levels
to my lipid levels to my hormone levels, etc.
Using the most elaborate and cutting edge testing on the market, they were able to advise
me on a new diet, sleep, training and supplement protocol designed to maximize performance and
support longevity.
I tell all my friends about Merrick Health because you simply cannot get this level of
knowledge or attention to detail from a general practitioner who sees up to 50 patients per
day.
Plus insurance companies regularly deny progressive treatment options, primary care physicians
refused to order comprehensive lab work and standards of care lag years behind the leading
research.
Merrick Health represents a paradigm shift in how we approach medicine, empowering those
who want the most out of their health care and wish to maximize their potential.
Every client who orders Merrick's optimization package receives extensive lab work, over
84 carefully selected biomarkers to help provide detailed insights into your hormone
profile, cardiovascular health, organ function and metabolic status.
Expedited onboarding for those interested in working with a Merrick Health medical provider
for personalized treatment options, ranging from hormone optimization and cognitive enhancement
to hair loss prevention and body recomposition and all from the comfort of home.
The Merrick optimization package includes the same elaborate panel I get myself and with
those test results, that's how the Merrick Health clinical team optimizes my personal
protocol.
If you want the same panel and medical oversight that I receive, go to MerrickHealth.com forward
slash Danny and use the code Danny for 10% off at checkout.
It's linked below, now back to the show.
And so we had this Chesapeake Bay Retriever, 110 pound dog standing on the back door steps.
She's just sitting there and she was growling and she was barking at the same time.
So I walked up to the back door and could see her through the door.
Chris Jr.'s got me by the shirt, please dad, don't go out there.
Don't go out.
I'm like, son, somebody's breaking into dad's shop because his garage is next to the kennels,
plain view of the kennel so all the dogs could see the garage.
And I had a lot of stuff in that garage, I still do, at my mom's house.
And all our tools and welders and boats and fishing gear, I just knew somebody was stealing
something, right?
The dogs could see it.
And so I talked Jr. into walking quietly with me with no flashlight using our Chesapeake
to stay in front of us and keep us safe.
I just wanted to walk over and see if I could see who's getting in that shop, try to scare
them away.
And when I opened that door, Rosie took off straight toward the kennel where the dogs
were.
And she ran out about 40 yards and looked back and then took on off.
So Chris and I snuck our way up to the dog kennel and when we got there, the weird thing
was all the dogs were looking behind the pen in the woods, not toward the garage.
They were all barking everyone up.
It was a pretty long kennel.
We put a whole lot of dogs in there and it was, you know, just imagine a 50 foot long
kennel with dogs in each pen and they're all facing the back.
And Rosie, the Chesapeake is pointing.
She's frozen.
She's looking into the woods the same direction as the other dogs.
Chris and I are standing there and I said, this is really weird.
Maybe it's a bear or something has snuck in here.
Dogs are usually afraid of a bear.
They'll make, they'll sound different.
And so I said, junior, I'm going to send Rosie in to whoever's in there.
She'll run them out, whatever it is, deer or whatever.
I don't know.
But we made a plan.
We're going to send her in and we were going to run back around to our property.
So it was two lots.
They were on my dad's property or on his lot, right?
So we were going to go back to ours.
And see if she pushes something out across in front of us, just to see what it was.
So I sent her in the woods.
She took off wide open park.
And so junior and I ran hard as we could down this path back to the backyard.
And I had to make a left and go to the back of the property.
Another 60 yards, I guess, run.
So I had to run fast to stay in front of whatever was coming out of there.
And what I didn't know was this Chris had me by the back of the shirt the whole time.
He didn't want to turn me loose.
When I made that left turn to go to the back, he pulled away from me.
I thought he just turned to lose.
I actually slipped a little bit.
It was sprossed on the ground and I didn't know it, but he had all he could stand.
He ran back to the house, opened the back door and went in and locked the door.
I didn't know that.
I thought he was still behind me running.
So I ran all the way to the back and I knew where there was a big oak tree back there
I could run up to and stop myself.
You had to do this quick.
His dogs, usually something in front of a dog will be way ahead of them.
So I knew I had minutes to see what was in there.
So I run up to this stop and to this tree in a full run, stop myself.
And I'm trying to catch my breath.
I'm panting and panting, but I'm trying to be quiet, right?
Because I didn't want to scare whatever was coming toward me.
I could hear the dog coming.
It wouldn't bar.
It's probably 20 yards in the woods coming in my direction.
So the minute I hit that tree, I turned around to see if Junior was coming behind
me and Junior weren't there.
But what was there from me to you away, probably four foot.
I could have leaned over and touched it with my hand.
Good thing I didn't.
Somebody from NASA told me it would kill you if it did, could have the energy from it.
So there was a being standing there, just like Junior described.
It was that he saw on the river.
It was three, three and a half feet tall.
It looked like a child, not like a gray alien.
You would think about people talk about it was a little glowing color of the moon.
Soft glow, three and a half foot, four year old, looked like a four year old child.
Head and face was a little different.
Definitely want human eyes were glowing red.
They look mechanical.
When you look at them, they look like the little markers on a transfer truck.
The side markers, you see these little round lights along the side.
They were about that size, inch and a half.
It had this triangle on its chest glowing.
This thing was glowing, but it had a dark section that won't glow.
It was in the shape of a triangle and I knew I was in trouble the minute I saw it.
Now, it's all happened so quick.
I ran against that tree and I stopped myself and I look back and I'm like, oh, my God, what do I do?
So I got closer to the tree.
I didn't want to get closer that way to turn around, so I backed my back against the tree and I'm facing this thing and I said, I surrender, I mean, you know, harm, I'm sorry, you know, I'm not here to, I was just surrendered to it.
I just knew I was dead and I heard this voice say, you don't understand, we're not here to hurt you, we're here to help you.
At that time, Rosie comes out of the woods, she's still coming, she's still tracking whatever it is and it just vanished right in front of me, just disappeared.
Instead of telling Chris Jr. what had just happened, I walked back up at the house and he's standing in the back door looking for me and I was scared to tell him anymore because he was in shock, right?
And it wasn't the end.
I was a smoker back then.
I had to have a cigarette.
I just had to have one.
I was just basically hyperventilating.
I had smoke, so I walked into my study.
I have a couch with a sunroom.
I had windows all the way around and my couch was backed up to these windows, so I put my knees on the couch and I reached over the back.
I started to raise the blind and Jr. was freaking out.
Don't open the blind.
Don't, don't, please don't.
And when I raised it up about halfway, I was going to open the window and smoke and blow it out of the window, right?
But he had all the lights on around the house and there was this thing, this being a tall one.
I drew it.
I painted it, but it's not.
My wife thinks it's too scary, so she hid my painting away.
Right.
Did she really?
Yeah.
So it's a four foot tall painting and she saw the same thing.
Is it scary Emily?
It's a conversation piece in our house back in the day for sure.
She turned it around and hid it somewhere.
I don't know where it is now.
It's in her, in the pod.
Somewhere in storage.
She won't let me bring it out, but anyhow, that's what I saw coming about 20 yards outside that window.
Remember all the floodlights were on so I could see it perfectly.
How tall would you say it was?
It was a seven foot.
It freaked me out so bad that I shut her down without telling Chris Jr. anything.
I'm trying to protect him as a dad, right?
So I pulled the blind down, grabbed him by the hand, ran out the front door, jumped in my truck,
and we drove about five miles away to a big hayfield,
set in the very middle of the hayfield until daylight the next morning, afraid.
That was the beginning and the end of January the 8th of 2007.
Believe it or not, he did leave out details.
It's a big story, but they're all in the book.
Yeah.
So that seven foot being, what would you, how did that thing look?
Was there any details you could see?
Was it, did it look like it was a real biological thing you could touch?
It was a tall, two-legged, two-armed humanoid figure that looked more tan looking than gray,
but it's similar to these gray aliens that you hear people talk about.
You always said it had human eyes.
Yeah.
It was huge.
It had human eyes.
Sorta.
Yeah.
Bigger, but it looked more human looking.
But it was an alien.
With the pupil and like an iris?
Or was it just all one color?
It was all one color.
It was all one color.
Okay.
But the way it looked at me and yeah, it was a scary thing.
So I haven't seen those since, but it was there.
It was on my property.
And usually I've heard stories that they kind of run together.
These taller guys and these small ones, but I don't know.
I have no clue.
So out of all the people that were there with you that night, other than your son, has anyone
else corroborated any of that?
Yeah, they do.
They told their story.
The guys that were there with you.
Yeah.
They went on the Discovery Channel and told the story just like we did.
And they reported the Mufon.
I have all their interviews from Mufon and they all corroborated every bit of it.
And what happened with them was the same thing with me.
They had children, my children's age or older and or younger, all three of them married with
children.
And they were just good old country boys that worked for my dad as subcontractors with families
and they all went to school with my kids, the most of them, either elementary or middle
school or high school.
And so when the Discovery Channel made their show in 2008, they made a circus out of us.
They made me look like I was crazy and a liar and they tried to discredit all of us.
When they told us different, they were going to vindicate us.
That's why we all agreed because we were catching so much slack from the community.
It became worse because of that documentary.
My children were at school and they would get made fun of and she'd come home crying
from teachers and the kids in school making fun of their what was going on, right?
So that shut them up to never want to talk about it ever again.
That's why you don't hear much from them.
So after this happened, did you tell anybody else?
Did you tell your family immediately or did you keep it to yourself?
Yeah, I told everybody.
I thought it was the most wonderful thing on planet Earth.
We're not alone.
We've always been told that nothing exists.
Even people say God doesn't exist.
So it's all faith.
It's only us.
And we were created by evolution.
Just time.
Enough time, anything can create itself.
That's what they say.
So I just experienced something that what I didn't say was the next day when we left
the hayfield and came home.
I came home and was worried about my medication.
They'd take medicine every day.
And if I missed it, I would get worse.
Couldn't miss one day.
It just had to stay regular.
And I didn't feel sick the next morning.
And I didn't take any medication.
For the Crohn's.
And I haven't had a symptom since then, period.
Went away that night.
And I was so sick that she can tell you I was in the bathroom 20 times a day, 25 at the worst.
And it was at the worst point.
That's what Crohn's does to you.
Very painful.
It's an intestinal disease.
Right, right, right.
So I told the world, you know, this is what happened.
Suddenly I became a lamp and stop.
And I was playing with demons.
You're playing with the devil himself.
And for long the churches were coming, sprinkling holy water on my kids, on my house, on my property, on me.
Really?
Yeah.
When you would go to church?
Well, I wasn't going to church then because I was told if you can't come if you ever talk about this again.
So I'm like, I'm going to talk about it.
And so I never went back.
And how did word get spread throughout?
Emily, you said you saw people at school were cracking jokes.
How did everyone find out about it?
Well, it's a small community.
And dad was born and raised.
Our generations of our family are from that area.
And so the people that are from there know each other very well.
And dad and my mom also were prominent business people in town.
So everyone knew who we were anyway.
And so when one person found out about this, oh, Chris Blutzo is crazy.
The whole community finds out.
And then you go to the grocery store and people, you know, recognize you and know things and people at school.
And then the documentary came out a year later and it was impossible to keep it hidden from everybody.
It sent the first five years, I call five years of darkness.
And that was the first year it happened.
The second year after the Discovery Channel did their thing from the second year on, it just got worse.
And I mean, it got so bad that I didn't want to ever talk about it again.
And I actually went outside and shouted to the heavens, I'm done with you.
You know, why do you do this to me?
Why is my children affected now?
You came in and you healed me and now I've got this problem.
Right.
And it's important to note that through these five years of, you know, we call darkness, not because of the phenomenon,
but because in those five years, we were having continued experiences together and separately.
Like I was 10 years old when this happened in 2007.
And throughout all of those years, we were seeing things and then going and being ridiculed publicly and, you know, in different circles while we were still having the experiences.
So there was a lot of like cognitive dissonance there with like, oh, we're actually seeing it, but nobody believes us and it's still happening.
So this first experience sort of unlocked a whole bag of other experiences on everybody.
Absolutely.
On all of us, yeah.
Even you last night.
So what other types of experiences are we talking about?
Well, go ahead.
You can talk.
I mean, anything you can think of, really, I've seen things, we've seen things like jump off of the table without being touched,
like moving things, moving on their own, seeing shadow figures being touched, anything.
Like you would think it was a haunted house growing up, but that's, you know, part of how we explained that this is all spiritual in nature is because it can really manifest in any way that it wants to.
And so the phenomenon is not limited to what people think of as aliens or UFOs.
Where we were obviously seeing orbs every night as well.
We were seeing things in the home that you would think of as like ghostly maybe, but it was all the same stuff.
When did the orbs, the orb sightings start immediately after?
They were quit from 2007 that night.
It just continued to this day.
So from then on, you just started noticing things in the sky?
It was in my face.
It was, yeah.
I mean, I write about it in the book.
So many stories that we didn't write about.
I wrote 140,000 words for this book, and we published 85,000 or 90,000.
That's including the introduction.
So there's a lot that we didn't include.
Daddy would wake us kids up because mom didn't really like the conflict with the phenomenon.
So she didn't really encourage the experiences.
But dad would secretly wake me and my two other brothers, Ryan and Jeremy up at whatever time of night.
And we would go out on school nights at 2am, 3am, and just look at orbs in the yard right in our face.
And then we would go to bed and go to school the next morning like nothing happened.
Some of these orbs would be 50 feet around and 100 yards away.
Huge, biggest trees.
And flying some of them through the trees.
And sitting out there for hours, we had one blue orb that just stayed there for everybody to walk by the door.
And we'd look through the wind and see it going through the trees and stuff.
Now, do these orbs make any sounds?
Sometimes they do.
Not all of them, but if they're close enough, you can hear them.
How would you describe the sound?
Like a ringing, like a buzzing kind of energetic.
Electrical.
Sizzling.
You ever took a light switch and when you go to turn it on an old switch, especially, you hear a crackle sometimes when you go from on to off.
That's a lot of what it sounds like, a crackling, sizzling sound.
Any, is there any other, is there a smell?
No smell.
No smell.
No smell.
And what about the colors?
What is the color spectrum of them?
What is the range of colors that you see?
Nearly all of them.
All of them can change colors.
I don't think there's a, you hear people say, oh, there's a red one and it's mean and there's a yellow one and there's an orange one and there's, these green ones will kill you.
I've heard so many people talk about that.
But it's, from my experience, they're all the same.
They just how they decide to appear in color, but they usually will start out white and shift from white to red.
So everything in between yellow, orange, blood red, back to white, yellow, orange in that spectrum.
But occasionally they're blue.
They'll go from red to white to blue.
This blueish white light, not like an American flag thing, but, you know, they're shifting red.
You'll see the red in with the blue, several videos of blue ones.
What is this photo right here we're looking at?
That far, if you look at Christopher, that's Chris Jr.
If you look at his left shoulder behind him where the woods are, that's where I had the encounter with the three foot beam.
Oh, really?
Yep.
And that's where they landed.
The orbs landed in my yard.
You can see this circle here is two years old.
The grass still not growing.
It killed the grass.
It's set for a little doughnut in the middle.
And those streaks you see behind him are where two other orbs came from different directions and scooted along the ground, burning the grass until they set down and created their circles.
There were three of those circles in the yard.
And Mufon tested that as well.
Can you explain what Mufon is?
Mufon is the mutual UFO network.
And that's who you call.
If you have a sighting and you want to report it, you call those guys and we're going to their website and you can put your sighting in.
So basically it's just people scattered around the country that are interested in the topic and they just donate their time to research it and collaborate.
It's a pretty big outfit.
You know, they have board members, full time people there, but it's basically a volunteer.
The investigators are mostly volunteers there.
But yeah, they tested that soil.
And the funny thing is the tree back in that back corner, there's a big oak tree in the woods where I run up to it and stood there with this being from me.
And the tree just died.
The limbs fell.
Big, huge tree.
It just crumbled down.
Just like the top of that burning tree.
Remember that orb where that orb landed there is 12 feet from the tree.
I'll show you right here.
This is the...
Well, here's a better photo.
So when it come over the tree, one of those or the one that had the full circle, the other two had tracks leading up to where they landed, right?
But the other one, Chris Jr. was standing at, actually, we believe, came over the top of that tree and irradiated it because you can see 40 feet of the tree is missing.
It broke right off.
It looks like it's burnt off at the top.
Well, it wasn't burnt.
It just broke and fell.
It died.
Really?
Tree died and then caught fire.
So the first time you noticed this, you just saw the tree in your yard burning?
Yeah, we have a video of it.
Oh, there's a video?
Yeah.
Do we have that?
Yeah, we can find it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Mom tried to put the fire out three times and it came back.
There you go.
Top one.
Here we go.
It lit itself on fire three times at nine o'clock.
It caught fire.
This tree is spontaneous.
Oh, here we go.
It combusted in our backyard.
Oh, wow.
It hit the full screen button on the bottom right.
Yeah, right there.
This is so weird.
There's Emily coming home.
Isn't it been thundering a lot?
No.
I don't even think it rained today.
There we go.
You see the grass is wet.
We're all standing out here looking.
It ran as fast as we could in the backyard.
Tree just spontaneously combusted.
That's my brother Ryan.
Yeah, burning from the inside out.
How is it burning from the inside out?
I don't know, but here's the weird thing, Dan.
We don't know.
This is when I quit smoking.
Remember in 07, I had to smoke to blow out the window right.
This is 2013.
And I was, I walked, I paused my television.
Vaughn and I, her mother and I were sitting watching TV in our study.
I said, I paused the TV.
I said, I'm going to go smoke.
So she got up to go to the kitchen.
I went out the back door, pull glass door.
And I'm standing on the patio, split up a cigarette.
And I could see this tree is 75 yards from the house,
back in the back of the property, in the middle of nowhere.
And I saw sparks come from the ground and go up.
It looked like the little bottle rocket.
She'd shoot off the little tiny ones that red sparkles.
That's what it looked like.
They came out and they went weird looking.
So my wife is coming back down the hall.
And she could see through the back door, see me on the patio.
But she could see all the way to that tree.
And she opened the door and said, what's going on with that tree?
I said, I don't know. I see it too.
And suddenly it just erupted like somebody just poured gas on it.
Poof, it just erupted into flames.
And it was dead.
Now look, this is after the fire.
It came back.
How long after the fire is this?
That's the very next summer.
The fire was in, like, October.
This was the next, like, spring summer.
Spring, yeah.
Wow.
It had been completely dead.
That year before, 2012, April of 2012.
I'm going to talk about The Lady here.
It's in my book prominently about The Lady.
And Easter, Saturday night, Easter, the night before Easter of 2012,
I was so distraught because of the way my kids were being traded.
I'm a big guy, you know.
I got to the point where I didn't care.
You can laugh at me.
You can call me crazy.
You can do what you want.
I don't care.
You just won't be my friend anymore.
I don't need you in my life.
It's kind of what I thought about everybody that I grew up with, cousins,
just family and friends.
So I'd wash my hands with them.
But now it's affecting my children.
Extremely bad.
It made fun of and all.
So I was desperate to prove to the world that I had actually experienced something
that I want crazy.
They labeled me that, the whole community, or you play with a devil, one of the two.
And I knew different.
I knew I was praying to God and these balls of fire came.
I knew they took my crumbs away.
I knew it wasn't the devil.
If it was, what a big trick.
Why does the devil answer prayer?
If it does, I don't want to be praying, right?
So I had given up that night and I walked outside and I said,
look, I've been trying to film you.
You're in my house.
You're around my family.
Everybody here sees your presence.
These orbs.
It's intelligent.
They're intelligent beings.
These orbs are beings.
They're individual beings, sometimes more than one.
And so I shouted to the heavens, I'm done.
You won't let me film you.
You won't let me share you with my mom and dad lives next door.
The minute they come out, it never shows.
When they walk back in the door, boom, it's right back in our family's face.
So it was like, it was, it was so real to us as a group of six people,
but it wasn't, I wasn't able to share it.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by SEED.
Have you ever been in a situation where you had a gut feeling and it paid off?
There's a reason you trust your gut.
And that's why our enteric nervous system, which regulates the gut,
is often called the body's second brain.
SEED's DS01 daily synbiotic is a new standard in probiotic,
which supports digestive, skin, heart, and gut health.
Its non-fermenting formula is supported by clinical trials and scientific studies
and delivers what you need, where you need it.
I personally use SEED because it helps support my body's ability to break down fats and lipids.
And it maintains my blood cholesterol levels already in the healthy range.
And with SEED's DS01 synbiotic, it's two capsules in one.
The outer layer dissolves in your stomach with fiber that feeds your gut bacteria.
And the inner capsule is designed to travel all the way to the colon
for the precision-delivered payload.
Additionally, SEED is rigorously tested for 14 classes of allergens
defined by the European Food Safety Authority.
Listen to your gut with SEED's DS01 daily synbiotic.
Go to seed.com forward slash Danny and use the code Danny
for 25% off your first month.
That's 25% off SEED's DS01 daily synbiotic
at seed.com slash Danny code Danny.
Back to the show.
So you couldn't witness it with anybody outside the family?
Not before the first five years.
It was...
But I did with other people.
You know, some scientists got to see.
It was very selective.
Yeah, very selective.
But it was almost impossible to introduce anybody to it.
And so I went outside that night and I shouted to the sky,
I'm done with you.
You have ruined my life.
Thank you for healing me.
I'm not sick anymore.
But my life is in worse shape now than it ever has been.
I'm a big guy, but my kids, I can't take them coming home crying.
And three boys, 15, 16, 17 years old trying to date girls.
And now they're withdrawn because of all this.
And so I'm talking to the heavens, to the sky just like this.
I'm done with you.
I'll never speak of you again.
Don't come around me.
Don't come in my house.
I'm done with you.
And that's what I did.
And I walked in and I went to bed.
My kids were there because of Easter.
They always had friends come over.
So the house was full of children.
And they were in the front part of the house playing video games.
And I'm in the back alone.
My wife's sleeping with her because the boys had all these boys over
and mom's standing guard, right?
So she's, I'm totally by myself.
So I'm asleep, three o'clock in the morning, three o'clock on the dot.
I heard this voice say arise in a manly voice.
I mean, it sounded like thunder.
It was so loud and it woke me up from a dead sleep.
So I jumped up out of bed and to a sitting position and I looked
around the room panic.
I said, I heard that who's in here.
If it had been my wife, it wouldn't have startled me.
But because it was a deep, thunderous, manly voice that scared me to death.
And I looked straight at my clock.
Had old desktop clock back then.
Everybody had alarm clock.
Right.
I don't use one.
So now we use a cell phone.
I looked and it said 3am.
And I could see movement in my room.
And it looked like these shadowy figures that we've been used to seeing.
They were at the bed, put in my bed, these shadowy figures.
And what they did, I don't know.
They put me in some sort of trance like thing to where I stood.
I got out of bed.
I was in just my underwear.
I put on full jeans, pants, shirt, shoes.
And I walked right out the back door following them.
And we went back out to the dog kennel to where everything had happened before.
Right.
Just right up to the dog kennel.
And just before we got to the kennel, one of these beings.
Stopped and turned.
And handed me this object with two hands.
Just like this.
Handed it to me.
And I reached out and I took it.
It said, this is yours.
You must keep.
So when I grabbed it, it felt like a hedgehog.
It was prickly.
It wasn't hurting, but it was prickly.
And it felt like it was a living, like a dog.
But it had no head or no legs.
I could see it, but it scared me really bad the way it hit my hands.
So I dropped it on the ground.
This boy said, no, you must keep that.
This is yours.
You must keep.
So I reached down to pick it up.
And when I did, when I stood up, there were gone.
There was no more beings in front of me.
And I thought, what am I going to do with this thing?
And I'm juggling it.
And I thinkin' quick.
And so I opened the dog kennel and I set it in the kennel and closed the door.
I'm thinking, you'll be safe there.
I don't know what it is.
This has all happened so quick.
And the minute I closed that door, I stood up in this blast of wind.
It was so strong, this wind.
It was a mighty wind, but it was localized.
It wasn't the trees around me.
It wasn't the forest.
It was a blast of air in a circle in front of me.
That the tree, this oak tree in front of me just disappeared into a black hole.
And out of that hole came this wind, which pushed me backwards really quick.
It was like so fast, it caught me off balance.
And I fell all the way to my back, flattened the leaves.
And as I'm falling, I can see what looked like a 1,500 pound bull, a cow.
Come out of that hole ran right over top of me.
And I could see through it.
I could see the stars right up through it, but I could see this bull.
And so I land on my back and I roll to my stomach.
And when I roll, and I'm trying to get up, right, I'm going to run.
It happens within seconds.
I hit my back, I roll to my stomach, and I'm facing the other way.
So I'm trying to get to my knees and to my feet to run, to know where this thing went.
And immediately the cow wasn't there.
It was a woman, beautiful, beyond measure.
She was glowing, this bluish-white color.
And she had this white dress on that sparkled when it was flowing.
The dress just moved and it looked like an old Roman dress.
It went all the way to her feet and sleeves out to her hands here in a collar.
There's a painting of her right there.
That was done.
You painted this?
No.
The man standing to me is a famous artist from New York, Doug Auld.
And Doug painted that just out of what I described to him.
You can see the bull through right there.
And there's actually a triangle on her chest.
He put it on there.
And pretty crazy that painting's big, but her face is different,
but that's similar to what was in front of me.
So three foot floating in front of you.
Yeah, three foot off the ground, but six foot away from me.
Six foot away.
And the size of her, was it like the normal size of a human?
She was smaller.
See through?
Because you're not seeing through?
No, she was solid as you are.
But her mouth wasn't moving, but I could hear her plain as day talking to me.
But she was hovering barefooted, just like that, three feet off the ground.
And she looks at me.
I'm just in this biggest shock.
Words can't describe how the power I felt from this wind and this bull run me over.
And the fear that set in flight, I had to run.
You know, I had this instant fear hit me.
But now I'm looking at this woman.
So that whole fear thing turned into, oh my God, what is this?
Is this an angel?
What am I looking at?
She leans over and she looks at me and she says, this is your burden.
And she said first, she said, you know why I'm here?
And I knew why she was there, because I had struggled internally for five years.
These orbs coming, it talks telepathically.
I hear them.
And we proved this on the History Channel, live with Andy, right?
They knew that my brain was communicating with the orbs, even though I wasn't moving.
We did this on camera.
And neuroscientists measuring my brain waves, they could tell.
So I'd had, for all these years, this overwhelming desire to tell the world.
And the more I told it, the worse it got, the worse it ridiculed.
And it spilled over to my children.
So that's why I was ready to quit.
But she said, this is your burden.
You've got to bear.
And she said several things.
And this is, I've been telling this for a long time about the times we're in now.
We're in some pretty weird times, right?
But she told me about that.
And I put it out there, 2012.
This happened Easter of 2012.
She said, there's going to be trouble coming.
And we're going to wake the people up.
And we're going to let you do it.
We're going to use you.
We want to help you introduce us to the world.
That's what she said.
And she told me about an alignment.
She said, there's going to be, she said, when the red, she said, when the star of Regulus,
when the star of Regulus arises on the horizon in the gaze of the sphinx,
at that time there will be a shift in the knowledge of humanity.
That's what she said.
I didn't know what it meant.
I had no clue if this star would align on.
Star of a Regulus?
Regulus, a star called Regulus.
When it aligns on the gaze of the sphinx, before daylight,
and that star comes up and it's right above the horizon, like the orbs last night, right on the ground.
In view of the sphinx, there'll be a shift in the knowledge.
There'll be a new knowledge for humanity.
So I told that.
I also saw visions of trouble that would happen beforehand,
which is we've been having weird troubles, right?
So I'm not a prophet and I don't want to claim to be, but I did say this in 2012
and I've said it for the last, what, 11 years and it's all happening.
So the amazing thing is, Danny, is I went from totally quitting and announcing it to the heavens.
I'm never going to do this again to a new renewed energy of now what am I going to do?
If I tell this about the lady, they're going to come lock me up.
They're going to think I'm crazy for sure.
So I didn't say anything for a while.
And two weeks later, a week later, I had vowed not to ever speak about it again.
One week later, I get a call from Mufan saying, we want you to talk in Asheville, North Carolina, which is six hours away.
And I readily accepted, yeah, I want to talk.
So I was a different attitude towards it.
And that's where I met Diana Pasolka two weeks after the lady came.
And I started talking about the lady in that conference and the audience began to heckle me.
They made fun.
They didn't want to hear about the lady.
They wanted to hear about the river event.
So it was a very traumatic thing.
And that bonded Diana and I for all these years to where that's how we became to know one another.
But the crazy thing is, is immediately when she left, that's when I began to document everything.
I could get pictures.
I could take you out and share it with you.
Only after she came.
Only after the lady came.
Yep.
What do you think the bull symbolized?
I don't know, but I know this.
It got the attention of Diana and the Vatican and CIA, NASA and everybody, DoD, even the Ministry of Defense in Britain, Australia, all these people.
They wanted to know about the lady immediately.
Let me tell you.
In fact, I put it in writing to two generals at the Pentagon what she told me.
I was asked to do that.
I have a whole bunch of questions in my head right now, but I want to try to figure out how to pick this apart a little bit.
First of all, Steve, do you remember when we were talking to Randall the other day, we were going through the different ages in the great year?
Yeah.
What age are we in now as far as the constellations?
That's the first thing I thought about is the age of the bull and the lion.
We're in Aquarius right now.
Like that song, Age of Aquarius.
Right.
We were singing Age of Aquarius.
What's the next one?
Is there a way you can pull up a diagram, that circular diagram he was showing us?
Well, let me tell you what she told me.
She said that there was a shift in the powers of the heavens and that she had been away.
The feminine energy was about to come back and they weren't stopping it and that there would be a shift and that that shift would be into Aquarius and that the defined feminine would come back as the energy that would create a thousand years of peace.
That's what she told me.
There'd be trouble first, but in time that peace would come to this world.
Alright, so it goes Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Aquarius, followed by Pisces.
Okay, so we get a long way to go before we're in Taurus again.
Interesting.
But you know the lady in Egypt is depicted Hathor with bull horns or a bull next to her.
Many countries the lady is always depicted with a bull or either have bull horns with a solar disk or beside the bull.
So it goes hand in hand with her throughout many countries.
What did Diana say about the lady?
Did she have any speculation about who she was?
Yeah, they quickly referred me to the Fatima lady and the lady of Guadalupe, the lady of Lord's France and Fatima and there's several others.
There's one in Egypt that I don't know the name.
Can you pull up the lady of Guadalupe?
Yep.
Now the Sphinx, there's been people that have speculated the Sphinx was originally a lion.
Yeah.
What's weird is Regulus is in the Leo constellation.
Regulus is in the Leo constellation.
So when the Leo constellation comes up and aligns with that brighter star called Regulus.
Is there images?
I think it's Leo. I'm pretty sure it's Leo.
The lady of Guadalupe.
So yeah, that was the first time you saw the lady.
And when did she give you a specific time when things were going to change with humanity?
You know, I've seen her more than one time.
And yes, I didn't hear from her except at Easter of 2013 she came back.
Okay, yeah, Regulus. It is a star. It's the star of Leo, the lion heart.
Yep. And when she told me when that star aligns on the horizon before daylight and in the gaze of the Sphinx,
there would be a shift in the knowledge of humanity, a new knowledge.
And that's what she told me.
But there would be trouble along the way first.
And they gave me the images of war.
I even wrote that I saw Israel, Bahrain, and Syria.
And we're looking at it right now.
I put that in writing for years. I'm not talking today.
I did it. I've said this for a long time.
And it's coming. It's happening. Let's hope it don't, but it's looking that way.
At what point did you start getting visited by people in government and people in NASA or CIA?
2007, 2008.
So right after?
Yeah. Well, I didn't report the incident to October.
So it happened in January of 2007.
I come home telling this and my wife was so afraid that the kids were scared.
They didn't know what was happening.
The church being in a Pentecostal holiness church.
I was a deacon in the Pentecostal church.
So you can imagine Pentecostal church is way different.
That's Dr. Pauvin Meyer, Hal Pauvin Meyer.
So they immediately related to demons.
So my wife is trying to keep the family under control and hush me up about it.
So I didn't talk about it for 10 months other than my kids.
Orbs would be in the yard at night.
Two in the morning, I'd wake them up and bring them outside and say, look, your daddy's not crazy.
There they are, right?
So my wife began to experience it.
What time was it in 2007 when she got shoved in the kitchen?
It must have been in the fall.
It was a few months later.
She got shoved in the kitchen?
Yeah.
Yeah, twice.
Dad had been praying that mom would have an experience so she would believe him.
And she was doing the dishes and no one was awake or around.
And something shoved her into the sink and it scared her so bad.
She said, don't ever pray for me again.
Shoved her twice.
I don't blame her.
So I didn't speak about it for the first 10 months.
And it was October that I had cable finally.
We didn't even have cable.
I couldn't afford it.
I had no TV other than local.
You get a few channels with a rabbit ear.
And so we got cable and I started researching the UFOs.
How do I tell somebody?
Who do I talk to?
I've got to get this out of my head or I'm going to go crazy because my heads hurt really bad.
Every time I tried to think about the subject, I would go into almost, I did pass out very often.
It would hurt so bad I would pass out in front of everybody.
My brain had a lock on it.
So it was October.
I saw a move on ad on the history channel about Stanton Friedman, this nuclear physicist who was talking.
And the first time I'd seen a show like that, I thought he's pretty cool.
If this guy would tell it, I'm going to tell it.
I Googled them and found their application to submit a report and I wrote it out.
Two weeks went by.
I attempted to push that button and I knew if I pushed that button, I'm going to lose my wife.
That's what I thought.
I was under that much stress.
So after two weeks, I agonized.
Finally, I hit send and I felt this relief, but I didn't expect to hear anything back, right?
So within a week, I get this call.
Within days, a couple of days, I get a call from a move on out of California saying,
we want to come see you right away.
And I'm like, oh no, you can't do that.
I just wanted to say it.
So I told them no.
And they kept calling me and calling and calling.
And come January of 2008 or right around the first of January, they wrote me again.
And I finally said, I've got to tell this.
I can't hold it no longer.
So I said, yeah, you can come.
And it was February of 2008 when the first person showed.
And that's when I told my wife was sitting there on the couch while the investigator was there.
And she looked over at him and she and I hadn't talked about this period.
Only me and the kids.
She was always busting at me.
Don't get them out of the edge.
They've got to go to school.
And that's when she asked Steve, the investigator, if you ever seen any shadowy beings.
I've been seeing them and I got shoved in the kitchen.
And I said, my prayer is working.
I've been praying you would experience this.
And she looked at me and pointed her fingers and said, don't you ever pray for me again like that?
We all thought it was funny.
That was the first time you ever heard her talk about shadowy figures.
But she wouldn't talk around me.
She would around them.
But she wouldn't me.
And she was trying to hide it, you know.
But it just became, within two weeks, within two weeks of MUFON coming to my house in February,
they had already taught me into doing a documentary with the Discovery Channel.
This will vindicate you the whole neighborhood and know you're not lying about it.
So they taught me into it and that was a bad mistake.
Bad.
Because it turned the opposite way.
I don't think they ever believed it would happen again.
I didn't think that.
Because it don't normally happen.
So I might see something that's it.
But it didn't stop.
It came back.
Did you ever see any of those three-foot childlike beings again?
Yeah.
Yeah, I sure did.
In fact, there's a picture of them.
I'm trying to find it.
I can't.
It's there.
Seemed to find the photo.
And you mentioned the first time during the river experience when that first being explained to you,
he wasn't there to harm you, he was only there to help you.
Right.
Was there any other communication, any other times that you saw them or experienced them?
Yeah.
Two nights later, this was on a, it was a Monday night when we had experience on the river,
Chris Jr. and a group Wednesday night.
Now, wife wasn't coming home to Friday.
Right.
So we're staying the rest of the week there.
Just Jr. and I.
And Wednesday night, I'm struggling with Chris Jr.
Because he's in shock and he's had a really scary experience.
Right.
And he was in a bad way.
And so Wednesday night, it was about 9 o'clock, 8.30 or 9 at night.
Suddenly, we're at home, he and I, watching television, just dad and son.
And these same dogs start barking again.
Same way, scary bark.
So I ran to the back door and could look out over the whole property out through the back,
full glass back door.
And there was a Christmas tree farm beside us, a big one.
They had new trees where people would, they would send them out, you know, cut all these trees down.
But it was a section of that Christmas tree farm that was overgrown.
You see the far back right corner on the wood lines, our property line.
But on the other side of that, excuse me, it was this huge Christmas tree farm.
I can see it looks like a wall of trees.
Yeah.
So the trees were so big that they grew together.
So there was no walking through the place.
There were 40 foot tall spruce pine trees.
But underneath you could get down on your knees and there was no weeds at all.
It was just these short little pine needles.
And it was a section three feet of height underneath all them trees.
You could see for a long ways.
And so I just crossed the fence, the lights were flashing, pulsating in the Christmas trees.
The whole tree was lit up, tree at the farm.
And I knew what it was because we'd seen it Monday night on the river, these white, big white orbs flashing.
And I don't know what got into me, but it was a change in my life at that moment.
Because I had been a hunter.
I was raised with a rifle and a shotgun.
I shot my first deer at five years old.
I was shot in the back at ten years old, had a near-death experience nearly.
You know, I was the luckiest guy in the world when I was ten years old.
It blew a hole in me, but it's big.
Big as an orange.
Shot in the back with a shotgun.
Yes, from me to you.
That's a whole nother story.
The scar is still the size of like a big orange or a grapefruit.
Straight in line with my heart right there.
If I pull up my shirt, you can see lead right here through the skin.
That was the first near-death.
And so I don't know why, but I was angry.
Just seeing my son get upset again all over.
Because now we got two nights later these lights in the backyard again.
And it's taken me two days to kind of calm him down, and now he's freaked out bad.
Oh my God, he's just really freaked.
And so I just had this bit of rage coming me, and I walked over to the gun cabinet
and I grabbed a little holster, a .44 magnum rifle, a little short saddle gun.
I used to bear hunt with.
I'm on record, Boone and Crockett record book for shooting a .660-pound black bear.
Wow.
North Carolina.
It's the biggest.
It was a record at that time.
Still in probably the top five.
But I took that gun and I said, you come with me, Jenner.
He said, no, I'm not going out that door.
He said, please don't leave me, Dad.
I said, son, I'm going to end this tonight.
That's what I thought.
I was just being a father, I guess.
So I walked back to that far back right corner, and I went through that little opening you see.
Walked another 50 yards along that side, and there was a fence there.
Old hog fence that the trees had fallen over in one spot, so it wasn't used anymore.
It was crunched down.
And I knew it there.
I didn't want to cross that fence until I got back there.
So I could step over it.
So I stepped over that fence, and the first 10 yards of that tree farm was nothing but pine.
So there was a buffer area of pines, and then there was the wall of Christmas trees.
Sure wall.
I mean, there was no going through it.
You couldn't drive a car through or a bulldozer.
So I got on my knees, and I started under, and I could see this orb is about 50 yards away.
We're not even that far.
50, 60 feet, 70 feet maybe.
And it was pulsating.
I could see the bottom three feet of it.
That's all the view I had, three feet of view under there.
So I crawled, dragging that gun under these trees until I got about 20 feet from that orb, 20, maybe 30 feet.
And the electricity from it, the buzz, the static, my whole body felt like needles.
The hair was standing up, and every goose bump on me was just tingling.
And the energy was so strong, I couldn't go any closer.
I just turned around, and I backed away, walked back out of the forest, crawled out.
And I got to the pine trees where the fence was crunched.
I stood up, and I went to step over that fence.
And the minute I went to step over that fence, there were two of these beams just appear right in front of me.
One on, I mean, and they were standing like three feet from me.
And just enough gap, I could walk between them.
And immediately, I felt this shame come over me.
Shame that I had this rifle.
Why I brought this to fight something that there ain't no fighting, right?
So I took the gun, and I tried to hide it behind me.
And what they put in my head was what changed me.
From that point on, I never hunted again.
I don't harm bugs.
I have a way with animals now, nobody understands.
I have 50, 100 ducks.
Wild ducks will fly in and fly right up to me.
If you come out there, they're gone, but they'll fly right up to me from me feed them wild mallards.
And if anybody knows about mallard ducks, they're one of the most skittish creatures in the world.
They fly thousands of feet high at 80 miles an hour.
And you need duck calls and blinds and decoys in the water to get one to land.
Well, I have whole flocks of them fly right in and feed them.
But that wasn't like that before.
But these beings told me that they changed me.
They told me that the way they put it in my head, when I say told me, they don't really talk.
They put images that you know.
It's just telepathic, I guess you could say.
But it made me understand that the whole world is a living, is alive.
Everything from the grass to every single animal, bird, tree, all had a consciousness.
They even put images into me of the cells in the body.
Like within the human body, if you don't tell your body what to do,
something outside of us is telling our body how to function.
The molecules of each cell that divides from one cell to the other has a conscience.
So I'm just a part of that.
I can't get the words out, I want to say.
But it just changed me in such a way that I began to cry about everything.
I've cried for the last seven, eight, ten years, I guess, about everything.
When I see something get hurt, it just kills me.
But it came from that experience with these beings on how they told me how everything's a living consciousness.
And I don't have the right to take its life that we live in a mutualistic way.
Like your stomach, for example, you have bacteria in your stomach that digest chlorophyll, plant material.
Human can't do it, but it's bacteria does.
And it secretes the nutrients that you get from that plant.
And it survives because you're feeding it the plant material.
So it's a mutualistic way we live.
It's like a tree gives you wood for a house, it gives you shade for the sun, a nest for a bird, oxygen to breathe.
And the list goes on.
So everything has a part of life on this planet.
And it's not up to us to destroy it and abuse it.
And I could talk about this for days.
It changed me.
And this was in the very beginning.
How long did it take before you, obviously the word had to get out.
But like how long did it take before one of these guys like Hal Pov and Meyer from NASA to show up?
And was he the first one to show up?
And why did he show up?
Remember, we got past this, I guess, but February, they came and did the report.
By June, they were doing the documentary.
By late July, August, I think it was.
House shows up at our house knocking on the door.
And I was away in town.
My youngest boy, Ryan, answers the door.
There's a six foot four guy giant man standing at the door.
Yeah, it was just Ryan and I.
And he came and he was like, is Chris Buzzo here?
We're like, uh, no, who are you?
No calls, no letters, just showed up unannounced.
He drove all the way from Florida.
Cape Canaveral.
He was just on a whim and knocked on the door.
It was two and a half hours from here.
Yeah, it was 13 hours to our house.
And so he drove and Ryan calls me and he flashed some badges.
So we let him in and we just like sat at the dinner table with him until dad came home.
What was he talking?
What was he saying to you?
What was he asking you?
I don't remember everything.
I was pretty young, but he was just, I mean, mom came.
We were talking and she was just asking him questions and Ryan was probably taking the lead.
I don't remember.
I was pretty shy.
But what he did was is, um, well, to begin with, this is in the book.
For the first five years, we had been involved with the UFO world on a limited scale.
You know, they, everybody heard about us.
They wanted us to come speak.
They wanted to come visit and I let a few people come.
And the men in black was a big thing back then.
That was about the year it all came out.
Um, and so everybody was saying, the government will kill you.
Don't speak to this one.
Don't, if you see somebody from the government that don't speak, I mean, they put the fear of the government and my whole family.
Who?
Who was they?
The, well, the people associated with, with the move on the people associated with move on, which is the UFO world.
Basically, you know, so once that show came out, it brought everybody that's involved in the UFO world.
Knocking on my door, bringing groups of 10, 15, 20 people sometimes and they will come.
I'm not saying it was move on.
It's people associated with them, the UFO world.
So they were all about the men in black.
They're going to kill you.
They're going to kill you.
So when the government guy house shows up at the house, automatically it was fear.
We were all afraid and I didn't want to talk to him.
I didn't want to have anything to do with him.
And for the first few months, I would never give him any information, but yet he took to my children and he loved this one more than anything.
I mean, he came to my college graduation, birthday parties, recitals, like,
Wow.
He would drive all the way to be a part of our family.
Yeah.
He was always there.
And you know what he told me?
He said, Chris, he was that when he died, he'd been at NASA still holding security clerks for 60 years.
That's how long he's been there.
He worked with Werner von Braun before it was NASA.
He took his astrophysics degree in astronomy and astrophysics from jail in Heineck at Ohio State University.
He was like 15 when he graduated college.
How's a genius?
Yeah, freaking genius he was.
And so why was he interested in this?
Why was he interested in you?
Because they knew what I was saying.
The word, the triangle, the triangle on the chest of the being, that was a big thing.
A little child with a triangle.
The lady was 2012.
That happened later, but that even brought more people.
But it was, they knew the phenomenon was real.
They've known it.
Don't listen to them on TV.
I mean, they say we don't know.
We don't have anything.
Yes, they do.
They all know.
Was this personal for him?
Or was this business?
This was part of a NASA sent him.
This wasn't just him, like a side hobby.
No, I wouldn't say NASA sent him because he would always tell us not to say that.
Because he wasn't supposed to be there.
He was very selective with what he would say.
What kind of questions was he asking you?
Everything you can imagine.
He would ask each member of the family the same questions separately to see if they would
line up, and he did this for years and years, and one day decided he couldn't debunk it
and just decided he loved us, and that's when we started gaining a friendly relationship
with him, and he integrated into our family.
That was after years of him trying to debunk us pretty much.
So he was coming there to cross-examine you guys to find holes in your story to see if...
Basically.
He was sent.
He was sent to debunk this story.
That's what he taught us.
He worked with J. Allen Heineck.
He was the debunker, and we heard many stories how he would find a hole.
This person, son of a sheriff, fake something, he caught him.
That's what he did.
But he also would come and stay days while we weren't there.
Didn't know he was in town.
He would be at the newspaper.
He would be on every house on the street where this phenomenon first appeared to us in 2007.
He investigated every house within a mile or two of that place, and that's who found
the eight other witnesses that testified to him on his...
When he was getting the information that they had seen something that night.
So that's what he did.
What finally realized it was that he couldn't blow a hole in the story.
That too many knew it was real, and he became a part of the family.
And he began to see the phenomenon with me.
We'd sit out in the back and watch it come over.
But we loved him.
How was a great guy for our friends, for my family, my children.
We just loved a guy.
And he was coming to our house Thanksgiving of 2019.
He was coming.
2019.
Yeah.
And we were expecting him on Friday for the Thanksgiving that we can.
And he failed in his bathroom and hit his head and went in a coma.
Oh no.
Who is this guy?
Go ahead.
That's Colonel John Alexander.
The men who stare at goats, John Alexander?
That one, yep.
That's John.
Can you zoom in a little bit?
You see my hat there?
I've got a whole box of those.
John wears one too.
CIA.
So, okay, explain this story.
How did you meet John Alexander and what was your relationship with him?
Well, John starts off the first chapter of the book.
This guy's like a legendary military general, right?
Yep.
He's a Colonel.
Colonel, yeah.
What do they call him, Dr. Death?
Yeah.
That's his name.
Yeah.
He was an assassin in the military.
Isn't his PhD in death?
Yeah.
Near death studies from Harvard, I think.
Is he still alive?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I talked to him this week.
Wow.
We stay in contact.
I mean, we love John.
John was at my house not long ago.
In fact, we're going to spend...
Oh, wow.
That's Joe McMonigal, CIA spy number one, remote viewer number one.
001.
001.
That's him.
Joe McMonigal.
He's a legend.
That's at the Monroe Institute, by the way.
Yeah.
Which we love to be.
How were you introduced to him and what was his interest in you?
John, it was 2015, I think, this lady by the name of Pam Nance.
She's a research scientist for the government and her home base is Wake Forest University.
So Pam calls me.
I was introduced to her by somebody and then I've called her back long, short, short.
She says, Chris, I'm researching the paranormal.
Me and my assistant, Ashley, she said, we're researching the paranormal.
And I just got to tell you.
She said, I've been on Pilate Mountain in North Carolina.
She lived from Winston-Salem, works at Wake Forest right there in Winston-Salem.
She said, I was on Pilate Mountain or Mount Pilate, like the Andy Griffith show, Mount
Pilate, right?
She has a cabin near there of her home place from way back.
She said that she and Ashley would hike up on Pilate Mountain and sit under the stars
and turn on this voice box, they call it a spirit box, I've never heard of such.
But it's a little device about like the size of a cell phone that has this awful noise
that comes out of it.
It sounds like a static, white noise, but it's ticking tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, like
so.
And what it's doing is scanning millions of frequencies.
And these investigators believe that, and I know now, that disembodied spirits or voices
can come through that thing.
So she said she was on Pilate Mountain, and she would ask it questions.
And it kept saying, Chris, UFO, Chris, UFO.
And it said it over and over, over several days, she would hear the same thing, Chris,
UFO, even said Hope Mills, which is where we live.
So she gets on the phone with Mufon and finds out, who is Chris in the UFO?
Well, they gave her my number right away.
So she comes to the house, and we're out at the burning tree.
First we did about an hour and a half interview in my study, and she had all her equipment
running.
And then we went, not to get ahead of myself, but why they did the hour and a half study
inside.
They got like 60 or 70 voice communications audible that was recorded on a recorder, just
coming out of thin air.
So we go out to the tree, and we do this investigation.
And I'm just holding this box in one hand, spirit box, with a cord hooked to a digital
recorder.
So this is recorded in what this is saying, and you can hear this thing.
So she talks me into standing at the burning tree while my wife, her assistant, Pam and
Ashley, my wife and Stephanie, my niece, there were four ladies standing, you know, 10 feet
from me looking at me.
I'm leaning against that burning tree, and I'm holding this thing.
And we start asking questions.
Crazy thing, this thing started talking, and it would answer my question.
It would say my name, and four or five voices would come through it.
They recorded 350 audio clips, and she said, I've never seen anything like it.
She said, I went to the Charleston jail to do a ghost hunt.
She could take six of these recorders and let them run for hours, each one, and they
might get one voice out of, you know, 40 hours of recording, where we got over 350 recorded
clips.
But one thing it said, it said, Chris, the Pope is in danger, help him.
You must help the Pope.
It was saying this, we got it on recording, and she even made a PowerPoint with this,
with all these clips.
You're going to listen to them?
Are they online?
No.
Okay.
I've got them.
Okay.
But with all this happening, I knew that the Pope was going to Philadelphia.
He was already, had been into Washington and was making his trip to New York City, and
he was going to go to Philadelphia.
Was this Pope Francis?
I think it was Francis, right?
When they were going, he was going to make a speech at the Congress, old of the original
Congress Hall in Philadelphia.
So I call a friend that called me last night, the guy you asked about who it was that called.
I said, I called this guy.
I said, Hey, Larry, you won't believe this.
I said, this thing, this lady has, and I'm, I'm talking to him right after all this investigation.
I said, this thing keeps saying that the Pope's in trouble.
He's coming to Philadelphia, but he said, you must help him.
It was saying this, not, you can hear it, you must help him.
So immediately my friend says, well, maybe you should come to Philadelphia and let's
see what we can do about it.
So a couple of three days later, I'm in Philadelphia, and when I walk in his house, there stands
John Alexander, first time I ever met him.
And that's when we started remote viewing the whole Pope, first chapter of this book,
and they actually arrested a guy for trying to blow him up.
I even told him he was going to use a bomb.
I saw where the boat ramp beside Ben Franklin Bridge, I drew it all out and they verified
it.
And so they got secret service involved.
And then John calls Jim at Monagall and just says the same exact thing that I say.
And so from that point, they shut down Philadelphia, closed every access into it and made people
walk from the Jersey side across the Ben Franklin Bridge.
You had to walk in, you couldn't drive, and they arrested a guy for that.
So that's how I met John and it was a real thing of what happened there.
And that got the attention of a lot of people.
Did you ever speak with the Pope?
I never had personally.
I had words, I had messages relayed to me from the Vatican through Diana and my friend
from NASA, Tim Taylor.
And he sent me pictures of orbs of St. Francis with these orbs appearing.
And he had these hands were zapped and at that time I couldn't use my hands.
I could barely button my pants, I didn't get my kids to button my pants.
And I couldn't tie my shoes, I couldn't hardly pull my pants up, my hands were just in plain.
This is the arthritis that kicked in.
This is rheumatoid, which is an autoimmune disease.
So yeah, the other NASA individual you met after how?
How long, where on the timeline did you meet him?
I met him in 20, it was either late 2012 or early 2013.
And what happened there, I was at a gathering in an old log cabin in upstate Pennsylvania
on the Delaware River on a lake, we crossed the river and did this beautiful historic
cabin had Thomas Edison's bedroom suit there, right?
So big money and Taylor had heard I was there and he was out in LA, California.
And so he heard I was at that meeting and he wanted to meet me and he called and said,
I'm coming from LA, I'm heading to Huntsville, but I'm going to swing by Pennsylvania first
to meet you.
I want to talk.
And so he showed up that afternoon.
I'd been there one day, we got there Friday, Saturday evening, he shows up and we became
very close friends from that point on and after he left from there, he flew out the
next morning back to Huntsville.
They come in one evening, met me, made arrangements to come to my house and to meet my family.
And a week or so later, he was in Fayetteville at my house and the rest is history from there.
So Tim, what was his background, where did he work, what was his, what was he studying
and what was his interest in you?
Tim is an amazing guy, he's a genius and he's a very kindhearted person.
He is an engineer for NASA that he's probably been at NASA now 40 some years, over 40 years
and he runs all the launches.
He's the man.
He's an NRO guy, National Reconnaissance Office.
Sorry to interrupt, but let's just clarify for people what that means, National Reconnaissance
Office.
What do they do?
National Reconnaissance was a very secretive organization until a few years ago when they
were discovered and it went public.
But he was a part of the Air Force, a part of NASA and the CIA, all three.
So he holds the credentials for all three.
And what they do, these guys, they're the top ranks, they have the highest security
credentials, they're so high they can't even travel, they can't go into hospital and have
surgery unless somebody's escorting him because he might talk.
So they're the eyes on the sky and NRO guys see it all, they have, if there's anything
flying in our space, there's a select few of those guys that get to see it.
And I mean, it's compartmentalized down to just a handful.
So they own all the satellites, all the spy planes, they run the launches because every
time they launch something, something from up there, come check it out, swim right up
to it or fly up to it and make sure it's not something that shouldn't be.
And I'll stop with that.
So let's just say some of this.
Well, that's something we're going to have to talk about a little bit later.
Swim right up to it.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Anyways, we defined NRO.
So he was an aerospace engineer working for NASA for 40 years.
And about 40 years now, probably, he was there 30 years when I met him.
And what did he say to you?
What kind of things was he asking you when you guys first met?
He was the kindest person, understanding somebody I liked.
He never doubted me.
One of the worst things to do with this subject and everybody feels that you're, you know,
a new person on the block is so afraid to tell anybody because of the way you're going
to be perceived.
You're crazy, right?
Right.
But he was never like that.
He was, and what really was the difference, and I'm sitting here with a lead scientist
from NASA, one of the top guys from NASA, he runs the launches.
He runs the launches.
He runs them all.
This guy, he's in charge.
He's the dragon, he has a dragon tattoo on his arm.
His console is called Dragon Console.
I had the number to his Dragon Console.
Yeah.
His console is named the Dragon, which is his space in mission control where he stands
and runs the launch.
He's the dragon.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
And so to have that kind of person questioning me about what they look like, not, are you
sure you saw this?
No, I don't believe you.
It was none of that.
It was, what, what did they look like, describe them to me?
Were they this way?
Were they that way?
Did they walk this way?
They knew.
They knew all this stuff.
And so for right away, I found somebody that, that I appreciated, that could help me understand.
And he, he felt so sorry for Chris Jr. that his mission was to meet him.
He wanted to meet Junior.
He came and he spent a lot of time with him.
Changed his life because Junior had the worst problem being 17 years old with people telling
him he's a liar.
You know, that's the worst thing you can do.
Grandma's and grandpa's even said, and I don't believe you.
You know, were you on drugs or something?
And it wasn't the case.
And so this guy comes and he knew it was real.
And he went right straight to my house and he met everybody, briefed us with official
briefing on a laptop with our name, our eyes only, the Bledsoe family.
He tested each one of us with metamaterial and to see if we'd have a reaction to it.
And he, he counseled Junior for a long time and changed his life because now he had some
pride.
He had somebody to believe him.
And if NASA people would do that, then that's a really big deal.
So that's how that, he briefed you specifically.
What do you mean by that?
You can tell him.
Well, you can see in this photo, it was the day of my homecoming game.
I had, I was running for homecoming.
And so we were all called into my brother's room one by one to watch this briefing video.
He had this PowerPoint that said, for the Bledsoe eyes only, and it had different photos
and things that he would explain to us that I probably am not going to say or share.
And then he would hand us all a piece of metal and we would, you know, hold another piece
and see if there was any sort of reaction.
And he would test this all privately and separately so we wouldn't know what was happening.
So he could get more of like a, I don't know, like a real reaction.
So we didn't like pretend or something and we all felt something.
But when dad held the material, even though we all felt like electricity, he was like
seizing from it because his experiences had been so intense.
The photos he was showing you or the stuff that he was showing you, was it like trying
to cross-reference things that you guys had seen with things that he had documented or?
You know, some, some of it was Area 51, which I can't say nothing about, but he would show
us things and then ask questions, why do you think that's like that?
Why do you think that door is nine foot tall?
And I won't say no more there, but let's just say, um, because it was official brief
and I probably shouldn't go very deep into this.
And why do you think it's so classified?
It's always been the most classified subject, higher than the atomic bomb.
And it's been that way forever.
Do you think it's a good thing that's so secret?
Well, I think it's just the cats had the bag now and they can't hold on to the secret.
They're going to try it because they have no choice.
So there's nobody at NASA qualified to walk up in front of the television and say, this
is this and that, because it takes an act of Congress to change their whole mechanics
before they can do that.
So then these organizations can't tell it and they're not going to Congress is up there
wanting them to trying to demand them, but their protocol says no.
So it takes a whole lot of politics to, to maneuver around to get the Air Force to ever
open up about anything.
This is on entity basically and for technology and for, um, state security, national security.
That's why the government's not open about it.
Uh, they don't want to talk about it because this technology involved with the stuff is
incredible and they're not about to give it away to just anybody.
So explain what happened again when he handed you this piece of material?
Well, he handed me, I was the last person in the room.
So imagine my five, my wife and four children and Jenny.
I wasn't in the room when you held it, but go ahead.
But most everybody was in there.
They were sitting on a bed or on a, Ryan had a couch in his room, but, um, when I walked
in the room, everybody was watching me and quiet.
I couldn't say a word and up on top of the dresser, you know, the dresser is tall, not
the, the nightstand, not nightstand, but the dresser, he had the laptop set up there.
So it was, I'm looking up at it and he goes through the whole briefing and watching his
PowerPoint and asking questions.
And then he goes over to the chair and picks up a backpack, reaches in it and he pulls
out this little piece of metal.
It's about a half inch square size of a postage stamp, thin, I mean thin and he put it in
my hand and it just looked like a square of gray metal.
He said, what do you think of that?
I said, it looks like aluminum.
I don't know.
I didn't know what it was.
So he reaches in his backpack and he pulls out another piece and he puts it in this hand
and it's like aluminum foil.
It looked like aluminum foil.
You could crinkle it up, but it wouldn't crinkle.
It would stay wavy, but it wouldn't crease.
So I messed with it and it just sat there.
But the minute he put it in that hand, as thin as aluminum foil, yeah.
This one was thicker.
It was a piece of metal.
This was aluminum foil and he described this as the insulation.
He said, this is the insulation.
Like I already knew what he was talking about, right?
But when he put that in his hand, it made a connection through my body to this hand and
my arms began to thump like that.
And suddenly my eyes just started to black out and he reached in my hand and took it
out.
Got my vision good and he said, he was this close to my face.
He said, why you?
I said, dude, what?
What just happened?
He said, why you?
I said, what do you mean?
Why me?
He said, I would have known you were lying if you hadn't had a reaction.
He said, I'd never seen a reaction like this.
He said, I've only ever seen two.
The yours was by and for different than anybody's.
Why you?
I never understood what he meant by why you, but he said it three or four times.
And from that point on, we've become friends and done some traveling together.
And I ended up with him.
Where is this?
I said, Cape Canaveral.
That building right there, that door, is very famous at NASA.
That is the astronaut crew quarter.
And that building was built in the, I think in the fifties.
So when they, or sixties, when they put the first rocket in the space, when an astronaut
rides that rocket, they can't, they have to be in quarantine for like six weeks, I think.
So they don't get a cold and the doctors, so they have a crew quarters that have veterans
in there and a conference room and bathrooms and a doctor's office.
And when they go in there, they live for weeks with their wife and children and the same
house den mother that arranges food.
And so there's a lot more pictures of inside that place.
But he told me that, in fact, when we walked in the front door of it, the den mother come
up and said, how, who are you?
I said, I'm his friend.
He said, how'd he get in here?
Who would you point to, your who's friend?
Tim.
Oh.
It was me and Tim walking in there.
And she said, who are you?
I said, I'm his friend.
She said, well, you know, there's only 300 people ever been in this building and that's
only one U.S. president, no Congress, nobody, just 300 since its existence.
That's including all the astronauts and the family members.
In other words, she was asking why I was going into a place with such security.
And I couldn't answer it, but I enjoyed the tour.
I got to sit where John Glenn said, or all of them got to hang out in the whole place
and got to sit where they put their suits on.
And then they filmed me coming out the door.
That door is where all the astronauts would walk out holding their gear with their suits
on.
They would walk out that door and get in an airstream camper fan, a gas-powered one.
And they would be transported from that door to the rocket before they took off.
So that's a really famous photo up there.
So they treated me like royal.
And I'll give you a secret he told me.
He said, he says, your life will never be the same when you leave from this place.
It'll change you.
I said, what do you mean by that?
He said, well, every time these astronauts went to space, something come back with them.
And it's here.
It's still here.
Something comes back with them.
It's invisible, but it becomes visible every now and then.
They see orbs all over the place there.
Sure do.
Near the launch site, they see orbs.
At pictures of them.
What comes back with them?
I don't know.
I know it heightened everything happening with me.
This with the phenomenon grew greater.
Understanding of it grew spirit.
There's a lot of misunderstanding about these orbs and aliens.
Maybe it's technology, maybe.
But to me, it's more like a spirit.
They're like spirits, like ghosts.
It can come full physical.
Did he ever clarify what he meant by why you?
Nope.
He never did.
He's a secretive guy.
I mean, he's like a ghost.
Tim is.
That's why Diana wrote his book, wrote her book.
She didn't put his name in there.
Oh, yeah.
He was Tyler D. in American Cosmic.
But that was then.
Now the subject is, he probably don't like me talking about him, but that's okay.
It's part of my life and I'm sorry.
You're a good friend of mine, Tim.
So he never clarified anything about them trying to learn more about it and them being
interested and why were they interested or why did they make themselves so visible to
you and not other people?
Yeah, we went over that a lot.
And you said there was two other people that experienced the same thing you experienced
with the metals.
He didn't tell me who.
He just said, I've seen two other, in my life, I'd seen two other reactions, but nothing
like yours.
I remember something from your book.
I don't remember in what it was a reference to, but I remember there were, you mentioned
a conversation that you had with him when you were at Cape Canaveral and he said something
like they weren't interested in anyone else.
Like they're, we know about them, but they don't, they're not interested.
They don't care about us.
Right.
Okay.
When he first came, remember we were afraid of government people.
We were still had a howl there and I was still petrified about this guy.
So I asked him, remember we were afraid of the government.
So I was being tight-lipped and I said, why are you here?
You know, thank you for helping my children.
Thank you for helping junior.
But why are you here?
Why do you need me?
Why does the government need me?
Cause I'm still worried about the government, right?
Everybody's talking that they're going to kill you.
People have died and I heard all this, but that hadn't been my feeling.
Everybody I'd met had been really nice people.
He said, because we see him, he said, we see him, but they don't, nothing to do with us.
Zero.
And we want to study them.
We want to know more.
And we would like to study you.
And we would suggest you don't go to any UFO events, don't go to any conferences, don't
get involved because people that go to those tend to take on each other's stories.
You get somebody that sees a light fly by during the car and the orb goes over.
Suddenly they're involved with names.
They're from the Galactic Federation.
They were the Pleiadians.
They were the Octurians.
They did this.
They did that.
They know everything about when they only saw a light.
This happens in the UFO world and a lot of those things people tend to know more than
the experts do, you know what I'm saying?
So he said, we see them, but they have nothing to do with us and we'd like to know why they
want you.
We know they like you.
We know that and we just want to investigate something.
So that's how that happened.
Do you have any idea the answer to that question?
Why do they like you?
Why do they want to communicate with you and not with anybody else?
I have no idea.
I've asked that to a hundred times.
And Hal Pavamar told me one day and he was always very tight-lipped to Hal was.
He would ask a million questions and tell you one answer, right?
That's the way he always was.
And I'm like, Hal, why are they here?
Why do they want me?
Why are they around me like this all the time?
He said because of your family.
So he told me, he said, they're probably your family.
What that means?
I don't know.
And I'll tell you something else Hal told me.
Serious is all get out was Hal mapped the moon.
He wrote the book on occultation grazing.
I don't know how you say that word.
Occultation grazing.
In other words, he wrote many books on the moon.
So he mapped the moon.
He mapped the landing spot for the Apollo mission.
He said you got to land here and he drew out the coordinates.
That's what Hal did.
He studied the moon more than anybody in the world.
He's an expert on the moon.
So we were talking one night out watching the stars and I'm like, Hal, I said, is there
really something on the backside of the moon?
He looked at me and he said, there are buildings up there, big ones.
And we didn't build them and they're ancient, ancient, ancient.
So help me.
That's what he told me.
And I didn't ask any more questions, but he wouldn't answer.
He told me that.
He said there are structures up there that we did not build and they're very old.
This is coming from the world's expert on the moon.
Did you ask him if the moon landing was real?
I never did.
I never did, but he says it was.
So I believed him.
Wow.
Wow.
He had, his technology is still on the moon that he put up there.
Something for lasers to shoot off of and stuff up there, scientific equipment that he was
responsible for putting up there.
Wow.
Didn't he say the buildings looked like mushrooms?
Some of them.
I thought that was really weird.
Some very ancient buildings that look like mushrooms on the dark side of the moon.
That's what he said.
I said, Tim, what do you think about the moon?
Is there, there's something going on up there.
Is there structures up there?
He said, he said, do you think that it landed by chance in the perfect spot where it eclipses
the sun and it doesn't ever change its face to the earth?
It stays locked in a position.
He said, none of that was by accident.
He wouldn't elaborate anymore.
He said, but there's something going on up there.
I can't say, but it's not by accident.
I knew the moon was a spaceship.
Damn it.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's what he told me.
So what is it?
How is it all?
I don't know.
We're at the beginning of studying this thing and what is it we're dealing with?
Who is it?
How all I can tell you is how it reacts to me and demonstrate that part.
So okay, getting back to what he told you about music and keeping music in your head.
Why did he tell you to do that?
Because long about 2015, I think, 2014 or 2015, somewhere in there, I get a call from
a lady.
I showed you a picture today of Chris Jr. walking in a field with Tim and a lady by
the name of Chase.
Yes.
Chase is a very well known in the UFO world.
Chase Klutsky.
I have her photo here.
Chase and her husband, Pete, work with the U.S. Navy in the intel, right?
So just so happen, Pete's, Tim's at my house and so the day that we were tested with metal.
The bottom one.
There they are.
That guy on the right is Navy, U.S. naval sub commander, naval intelligence.
And Tim is National Reconnaissance Officer, NASA, Yvonne, my wife, and of course Emily.
This was the 10th grade, right?
11th grade.
He told them if they wanted to visit, they had to come to my game.
So they all came to watch me.
So after that event there, when was this homecoming?
Um, yeah, it would have been like September or October of 2013.
So I think it's, we're fast forward to November of that year.
Chase calls me and says, Chris, you ever heard of St. Paul's?
I said, yeah, but before you tell me, let me tell you something.
I said, Chase, I said last night, Saturday night, I was sitting on my back patio, had
a fire going, just me laying back, looking straight up at the sky.
And two orange orbs appeared, red ones, just like you saw last night, the same color.
They just appeared, boom, just appeared, sitting stationary above me up, way up, and they came
on down.
And when they got to the top of the trees, they stopped.
Now there's these two orange balls.
Suddenly they fired off straight towards St. Paul's, just above the trees.
She said, oh my God, I can't believe this.
I should have known.
She said, um, Saturday night, this was Monday night, she called me.
She said Saturday night, um, I got a call yesterday about a ghost hunter group from Wilmington,
North Carolina, Wilmington ghost hunters, Wilmington paranormal, I think the name of
the group was.
They were in St. Paul's at an old plantation house investigating ghosts, and they walked
outside into the woods and there's this old rickety of house that the farm tenants used
to live in.
It's old.
I mean, it was falling in, but they were in there in the edge of the woods.
And these two orange balls of light flew right over their head, right over the trees.
And it freaked them out when they saw it.
And suddenly one of them said that this tall being peeped around a tree at them, and they
pulled out their guns.
One of them was a police detective.
One was a prison guard, but they started shooting at it.
They were shooting at this, they didn't just had a glimpse of it.
So they were shooting in the woods, you know, at this thing.
She first asked questions later.
Right.
And so I said, I said, oh, my Lord, she said, would you go with me over there?
I'm coming next Saturday to investigate.
I said, yeah, I'd be glad to go with you.
So Saturday comes Friday.
I'd already called Jim, I said, Jim, I've got something, and I told him the whole story
about seeing the orders at my house and then over St. Paul's, and this happened to these
people.
He said, pick me up Saturday morning from the airport.
So I went to Fayetteville and picked him up Saturday morning, and we rode over, and that's
the picture you saw of them walking across the field, Tim, Chase, and Chris Jr.
So we walked across that field and went into these woods, and what I noticed immediately
was that the whole place had been timbered, except where the house sat, there was a grove
of trees, but behind it on behind it had been timbered out, and they went in through the
swamps and the cypress pond and destroyed it, and it was just a mess in there.
And I got the impression that it was because of the destruction of that environment is the
reason they were there.
Who knows why, but that's what I told Jim.
He said, you think they're still here?
I said, yeah, I think they're still here.
They haven't gone anywhere.
He said, what they decided to do was to recreate the ghost hunt that night.
They wanted us to go with them and do a ghost hunt, so Jim's like, I'm going back to Alabama.
So I took him three o'clock to the airport, and he flew back to Alabama, come in just
for the day.
And that night, I went back over there at six in the evening to do a ghost hunt with them.
And so that evening I show up, and I'm with the ghost hunting group, and there are eight
of us.
I'm the eighth person, so you've got Chase and Pete and myself, and then five members
from Wilmington, the ghost hunter crew came, so we were going to recreate the whole thing.
So eight of us, they finished the house thing, and then we walked across the field to the
old farm tenant house.
And here, if I can explain it to you, because I wrote about this in the book.
When you walk in, the cabin is old and dilapidated, just the one room, basically one room cabin.
It is 10 feet into the forest, in a real thick forest, so you can't see it unless you get
right up to it.
But once you get into the forest, there's this old cabin.
When you walk out the back door, couldn't even go in the front, you had to go in and
out the back door.
The front was boarded up.
But when you step off the steps of the back door of that cabin, you walk about six or
eight feet, is all, and then there's a ditch, a real big ditch, a six foot deep.
And it's dry, trees growing up in the ditch, it's old, but the ditch goes all the way down
the property, right behind the cabin, less than 10 feet from the back door.
So they were telling us after we were recreating everything, we went through the little house
and they had all their ghost hunting equipment inside, and they said, now we're going to
go out the back, take you the same way we went before.
And Tim and I discussed the possibility that these beans were still there.
I told him, I thought they were, and why they came, and he said, well, tonight, to get in
a little more depth, he explained to me that these beans can hear your thoughts and they
can stay hidden from you by knowing what you're thinking.
So if you happen to see one by accident, they can rewind your memory, basically, by a device
that they have, that I've seen the patents on it, patents.
But if you were to sing this song, not let them know what you're thinking, you might
get a chance to see one, that's what he told me.
I've held this, I'm telling you this first time publicly about these little details.
So that night, we walk out the back door with the ghost hunting crew, and I'm in the back,
I'm in the eighth guy in the rear, Chase is in front of me, so she's seven, I'm eight,
but Pete, he navigates under the world with submarines, right?
He's got a compass on his arm.
And so Pete's got us in tow, and we got to go out of the back of that cabin and walk
across the hundred yards, his hall of woods, that's really thick in that spot.
The rest of the forest to the right and left has been timbered, but we got to walk through
that clump of trees to get to a power line, one of these big high-tension power lines
you can see for a mile either direction, right?
So it runs parallel with the cabin field.
In a hundred yards, you walk through, it takes 15 minutes to walk that section from the back
of the cabin to the power line, it's important I say that, because when we started through
the woods, everything was fine, we were all perfect, talking, carrying on, excited, made
our way to the power line.
So when we get to it, we walk up and down the power line for an hour, and we were testing
all these equipment, they had these ghost hunters.
Just recreating the whole thing.
So when it was time to go back to the cabin, we had to go straight east, 15 minutes, and
we would end up at the cabin.
We went right back to the spot we wouldn't come out at, right, where we exited onto the
power line, we started back in right there.
Peets in tow, it is watch, navigate, so I'm behind them, I'm singing my song, singing,
singing, singing, and I noticed everybody got out louder in your head, in my head.
I noticed everybody got nervous, kind of weirded out, and there, you know, I saw what looked
like they were drawing their guns again, getting ready to, and what I've learned about this,
that they can put fear in you, these beings can control what you think, so they can make
you afraid, make you go a different direction if they don't want you here, right, they can
put fear into you.
I'm just repeating what I was told.
We're starting in, 15 minutes cross, peets leading the way, I saw them get nervous, and
that's when I started singing, suddenly I saw these green orb, look like eyes, people
were in the tree, I tapped Chase on the back and pointed at it, she saw it immediately
with me.
Next thing I know, Pete is right at the ditch, so when we walked through that ditch, nobody
else saw this, just chasing us, right, she remembers it, but when we crossed that ditch,
we had 10 feet to walk, I mean you can see, it was from here to that wall, it's the cabin,
right, but when we got to the ditch and we walked in that ditch, when we come out to
the other side of the ditch, we step back out on the power line, and that freaked everyone
out, it freaked Pete out, he's like, what just happened, he's a submarine commander,
navigates under the ocean, it blew him away, what had just happened, I knew what had happened.
So you basically stepped out exactly where you started?
Yep.
Yep, we pulled an east heading for 15 minutes, we got to the ditch, we walked in the ditch
and out onto the power line, and there's no ditch on the power line side, so what happened?
They couldn't figure it out, but I saw the bee, and I knew right then we were missing
time, what they did is they wiped our mind on the trip across, so I didn't tell them
that, because once we got to the cabin again, we went back across, went in the ditch and
come back out the cabin, so we made two trips across that power line, from the power line
to that building, so Monday comes along, Chase calls me, Chris you'll never believe this,
I said, yeah I will, Chase, we lost 15 minutes didn't we, she said no, we lost 12 minutes,
and they recorded it, they had helmet cams on, they had all these stopwatches, and they
know that we lost 12 minutes at a time with that group of people at night.
And Tim was there?
Tim was there that day.
Oh the day, that was the night after he left.
And they'll tell the story, the same group of people, Chase tells it, tells about missing
time with me, that's not the only group that's done that, this happened with several.
Okay, so fast forward to when you were going through the security doors at Cape Canaveral
at NASA, there was a black, a black glass building that you go, that you pass?
It was like a hut, like a guard shack, right beside this fence, you know you got mission
control and a fence around it, we got fences within fences, but when you get to the main
building where the launch is going off, they had razor wire and a barbed wire fence, about
10 foot high all the way around that thing, with guards standing there with machine guns,
and to go through that gate you got to walk by this guard shack, and it's about eight black,
the middle is black and the wind is black, you can't see any at all, but it was like,
it was like when you walk by that building, they can read your thoughts, never told me
who they, or what they, or how they, he just said, they can read your thoughts, they just
sing a song, and that's why I first heard about it, this was before the ghost hunting trip,
so I already knew about it, he just told me to do it again when I was on the,
this was before the ghost hunting trip, what was in the building that could read your thoughts?
I've had that question ever since, I have no clue, this is the kind of way these guys
will communicate, they give you a little bit, is it a lie, or they throw me off on a wrong
course, but they didn't, they seemed pretty real, what he was telling me.
So once you were, once you got into the building, the launch control center, where Tim goes,
what did he show you in there, the specific room, was there, did he show you specifically
where he is, and what he does, and what he works on when he's there?
Yeah, so if you can imagine, mission control is basically a square, it looks like a square,
it looks like one of those construction site trailers you would bring on a job, but bigger,
and it's square, and there's a hallway right down the middle, and glass on either side,
you've got this hallway with glass, big long hallway with glass, and if you look to the right,
is NASA scientist controlling the launch, so you've got all these 50 people, or however many
are in there, standing or sitting at each console, like you see on TV, same thing,
on the left side is the exact duplicate of the right, but the left side's all Air Force,
so the Air Force is involved big time with NASA, that's part of the NRO thing I think,
so there, all these cadets, all these young soldiers are there learning to control launches,
and I got to meet the general there, she came out in the hallway and spoke to me,
and I was even told how to address her before I got to meet her, and which I did, and that was
pretty cool, but there's a room, that's a closed off room, only Tim goes into...
How big is the room? I don't, I didn't get to go into it, but I saw it where it was,
and he explained to me that was his office, and in that office, once the launch goes off,
he has to stand in his control, when that rocket leaves and everything looks good,
he goes into that room, and it's for his eyes only, and the other guys in the NRO that are
involved in other ways, in other words, when that rocket leaves the ground,
they have ground-based cameras that looks like giant binoculars that you sit in, and they can
swivel and film this rocket, right, but once it gets up so high, it gets gaseous, and they can't
see the detail, and they want to know every angle of that thing, they want to see every bit they
can see, okay, something goes wrong, they know how to fix it, right, and it's how they found that
O-ring that leaked and caused the explosion with the shuttle, remember when it blew up,
they could see... Challenger, yeah, they could see the fuel coming out where the O-ring was stretched,
but when that rocket gets to 50,000 feet, they have what's called a WB-57, which is a really big,
it's like an old U-2 spy plane, huge wings, and it just hovers up there about 50,000 feet,
a group of guys in NRO, and they intercept the rocket, so when it's going up and starts going over
that rock, that WB-57 is right behind it filming it, because the ground-based cameras don't have
clear now, this airplane has it, when it gets on up there about 100,000 feet, they have, you could
see the picture of the 104 Starfighter that sit right there, that thing can fly right on up to
about 100,000 feet following that rocket, that can, and they chase it, keeping a film on it,
a camera on it the whole time, and the rocket's going so fast, it'll outrun it right, and it
loses sight, and then comes the satellite cameras, pick it up, and when Tim goes into that door,
his eyes are on every stage of that camera as it's going up, and so he sees if anything from
somewhere else up, gets nosy, and goes up and takes a look, or even shoots it down,
because it's happened before. It's got, they've gotten shot down. I've seen one,
you saw one get shot down? I saw the video, I did. Is this one that we all know about?
Some people do, you won't find it, it's been scrubbed, and what was it shot down by?
The video I saw was, you see I get a little nervous here, was a rocket, this thing was going
15,000 miles an hour, and when it arcs over, and it don't go straight up, they go up a ways,
and then they go over, and they fly out gradually, climbing up as they go around the world,
they don't leave it. What I saw was when this rocket left over the Pacific coast,
I think it was launched out of Bandenberg, and when it went up out of, started over,
all of a sudden this little flying saucer appears, flies right up to it, intercepts it,
as it's going 15,000 miles an hour, flies around it, and a little white laser beam comes out and
shoots it from every side, as it's going around it at 15,000 miles an hour, suddenly the whole
rocket malfunctions, doesn't blow up, just quits and tumbles out to the sea. I saw that.
What was on this rocket? That's what I asked him, he said, why do you think they did that?
I said, do you have weapons on there? And he wouldn't answer that. He said, well,
there might have been a Mott warhead, but it wasn't live. On man? Yeah.
So I saw it with my own eye. So that rocket, that one out of Bandenberg is known,
it's known, there's people that have seen it before. I think I've heard vague stories told
about that before. It's real, I've seen it. Did you ever, have you ever heard or spoke to Gary
about the research he's been doing on, and the brain scans he's been doing with people that
have experienced the phenomenon where he's noticed a certain part of the human brain,
I think it's the caudate pitamin in the basal ganglia, that is, it's extremely dense with neurons.
It's different. Yeah. I'm surprised he spoke about that because that's been kind of secret for a
long time. Well, you know, they study my brain. They're going to start studying hers this year,
Emily. Oh, really? You know how to talk about that? Well, I can't say no more, but we're just
going to say, yeah. Yeah. So what are they, what's going on here in this photo? That I
write about in the last chapter of the book. That's at the Monroe Institute. That whole deal
was created basically around me that whole week we were there. They wanted to get me up there
and see if we could film the phenomenon. It's never been done, right? Nobody's never walked out and
had it come and they filmed it like that. So if they get a video, it's by accident,
but we were going to do it intentionally. And so they invited Emily and I and some other people,
friends of ours, that came. And the rest of the group was while they were dining or having fun,
I'm in the lab being wired up, right? The lab rat. Yeah. And so when we go out at night, we had orbs
appearing. They'd never seen anything like it. They filmed, they got sensors sitting on tops of the
mountains, random generators and all, and they were going off and the orbs were up here. And
there is an orb that we filmed, a friend of ours named Rob Freeman. He came from Canada. He brought
a $250,000 camera that he bought just to film the phenomenon. So it's all, it's a big apparatus of
cameras and spectrum and all kind of stuff. I couldn't even tell you. It was a big setup.
So he walks up to me and he says, Chris, he said, you know what? You've changed my life. He said,
I want to apologize. So I stood up and I said, thank you, Rob. Don't worry. I'll forgive you.
I reached out and I hugged him. And as soon as I hugged him, flash. Somebody said, look, flash.
So Rob runs back to his camera, locks it in on this object, turns it on. And for 45 minutes,
that object never moved. It set their flash, flash. The star field moved across the sky, but the
object never wiggled. So you can find that called the Monroe Flasher on YouTube. And that was from
that night when Rob and I hugged. And we made a great bond. I mean, I'm going to be with Rob again
this November. Wow. The Monroe Flasher on YouTube. Can you, you got, you got Safari? Maybe we should
look at it. Oh, wow. This is like a, some sort of like analysis video. Somebody may be talking about
it. Okay. Now these are, so this is that $250,000 camera that this guy brought out here. Yep.
Let's see if it flashes. There it is. You see it in one spot. You can enlarge the screen. You can see it better.
It varied in intensity to how bright it flashed.
Wow. It's so tiny. Well, it was way up there. Right. But it got bigger and brighter at times.
A lot brighter. About the same distance as the one we saw last night. No, this is further up. Further.
This is way up there. But the thing is that there was 45 minutes of it. And there's parts
of that is a whole lot brighter and bigger. But move on Canada, which is where he's from, certified
it, true and so on. So that was a story there that what we were doing was filming with scientists,
government scientists, a whole lot of them using sensors and all to record this for the first time.
Now, were they using some of the same technology that Andy was using during the filming of that
show where they were kind of tracking it against the FAA and against satellites to make sure it
wasn't planes or satellites? I didn't see one of those. They may have had it because they had
sensors on the mountains and so on. Right. But yeah. Can you play that video from last night?
It's on there. It's in there. It's, there's like, I think there's three videos, but there's two of
them. Is it in here? Yeah. It's in there. Oh no, never mind. Steven has them. Okay.
Steven, I do. Steven's got them. Look at them queued up. So yeah. So we sat out there for maybe
30 minutes before, before we saw anything. And then all of a sudden these things started appearing
on the horizon. And there was a couple, a couple of things that happened over our head. It looked
like shooting stars. Yeah. That's, that's the orbs a lot of times because they'll, they'll go straight
up. See if we got audio going on here. What's cool is this, this, there's the surf you can see.
Oh, it's a, the contrast is like crazy. It's like darkened on the screen.
You can see the horizon. Okay. There you go.
So, so the planes were far above this. This was very, very low on the horizon. And you can see
the planes that are, there were airplanes above it.
Find the one that's the longest one, the 52nd one. That one has two in it. There are two orbs in
that. Right. Right. And the first one's right on the water. In fact, I don't doubt that it didn't
come from the water. As you know, what's weird is you just had to ask me about that
right before. Right. About the water. What do I think about the water? And then we get one right
on top of the water. So that thing was right above the horizon and it was
getting really bright and then getting, going invisible, going dim. Yep. And airplanes don't
do that. Nope. Nope. And we could, we know that because there was literally airplanes coming in
for landing that would turn on their, their bright headlights for their landing approach or whatever
it's called. In that 52nd video, you can actually see planes all around it flying up above it.
There was one there, top right. You see that little flap? Yes. That one was flashing.
Let me see if I can get the, the older one, the bigger one working because that doesn't
make sense why it wouldn't. So what, what is the connection do you think? You talk a lot about in
your book, this sort of, which, which it got me wrapped up in this Edward, this Ed Casey thing
with the healing power. What is the connection with this ability to heal? How real is that?
And, and, and was Tim involved in any of that with some of the stuff that he was doing with
the medical research and the medical patents? Well, yeah, in a way, how that came about was
in 2013, Easter again, one year later, remember 2012 on Easter, I had the lady experience, right?
She came and told me about the red star or the star of Regulus and
granted me the ability to record this stuff. She did it. It came straight from her 2012. Well,
2013, she comes back. This time she takes me, these beings take me. Somehow I'm transported
from my home up through the top of my house. I saw the rafters. I went and was pulled up into a ball
of light. Next thing I know, we're touching down from this orb and walk out of it into this desert
environment look like Utah. I have been obsessed for five years with Utah, more than that. Now my
kids know this. Okay, so here's the video. You got it pulled up, Steve? Yeah, it doesn't play on the
computer, but it does play in Dropbox. So here we go. Okay, so you see a, is that a plane?
That's an airplane, two planes. Now that thing comes right out of the water. Yep, right up out of the
ocean. Those are planes around it. Now it's going to disappear, but if you'll look to the right of it
here in a second, there's a second one right close to it that appears. There it comes. Now it's
going to appear. That thing goes down, disappears, then that one. What? It gets real bright.
Those are your orbs. And see these planes right above it? They can see that. That's why they're so
elusive. I mean, we, there's three planes, four planes in the picture, and then you got this one
to work. And then it, I think it goes out again, right? Yep. It just disappeared.
I don't know how you can explain that away with logic. You can't. You can't. And if you,
maybe tonight we go out sky watching again. Maybe I'm just hoping something comes much closer,
like real close. Well, we were, we were right on Indian Rocks Beach in front of a lot of really
bright buildings and condos, and there was lots of airplanes. So we were on the main flight path.
Right. Right. But it's pretty amazing for that to show up with all of that around.
Yeah. I knew it was a hamper though, because all these planes around. Now, what do
the, like the most hardcore skeptics say about these things? Do they, do they try,
how do they try to explain these things? Well, you know,
there are hardly no skeptics anymore. I don't really have that issue.
Okay. The main thing I hear now is this demon, you dealing with demons, because they've already
accepted the fact that there is something there. There's something happening. It was like satellites,
or at one point someone said swamp gas. Ball lightning. Yeah. But now it's like, oh,
there maybe is something happening, but it's evil. Yeah. It's gotta be evil. It's gotta be a demon.
There are videos on YouTube you can watch about ball lightning where people show these balls in
their house, these light that explode. They show up and they float around and they explode away.
But in your situations, there was no thunderstorms. There was no lightning.
No. And this is every day. I mean, I, I record this stuff every single day. I showed you my
sonics out and there are 2,700 videos in less than 24 months. That's a lot. And I could have taken
twice that because half the time I don't even record. We see, we'll see 10 times more than I
ever record. Cause a lot of times it's so fast, you can't get it on camera. It'll come by you at
a pier of 10 feet away and zoom right by your face pool that quick happens with crowds of 20,
30, 70, 70 people. I've had it appear around and 20 feet away. And it happens at significant
moments. So it's like, why would ball lightning respond to specific questions, thoughts, emotions?
Right. And, and yeah, so this is a new day. The people now are knowing there's something there.
And so the skeptics have mainly gone by by most of them. And the ones that are skeptical more
would be the scientists because they just, the paradigm don't allow anything there.
Right. In fact, I think between you and I, one reason they don't that they've hid this so long
and don't want to tell it because it's not the people that would melt down. It's not me and you.
It's not Alice in the mobile home park down the street or the average person. They would say,
Oh boy, wonderful. And then tomorrow they're back grocery shopping. But it's the scientific community.
It's the academic world that has spent their life in college and teaching people about evolution
and all this far old things that they're still teaching that so far they got to change everything.
So half the community that's teaching this would be lost. Where do we go from here?
You know, so I think the meltdown would be there more than the average people.
Another thing people say about this is that if this was to become accepted
in within humanity, it would destroy all religion. But what you see now with like going back to even
the Vatican is that they are looking into astronomy. I mean, there's an observatory at the Vatican and
they're looking at the stars and they're talking about the idea of extraterrestrial life.
And, you know, they even say like, if God could have created us and it could create ants and
caterpillars, why couldn't it create other beings that are somewhere else in the galaxy that are
even intelligent, right? You can't limit God's creative freedom. And, and, you know, the Vatican
is kind of becoming, you know, the religion. It is not counter into it is not counter to the idea of
extraterrestrial life or another sort of multi-dimensional life form or being or entity
that lives parallel to us. So when you think about that, I don't necessarily believe that
it would have a negative effect on established religions today.
I think it will for the strictest of people. You got religions that are pure cults that,
you know, only we're going to go to heaven. You know, these Baptists over there, they can't make it
or these, these are them, you know, they're, you know, you believe like us or you're going to burn
in hell. They don't even rationalize when it comes to this stuff. It's just straight by that book.
And they'll be the ones that would have the most to deal with, I think, because they don't have room
for any deviation of possibilities other than what that book says. Example, in our area, North
Carolina in the mountains, you have these snake charmers, snake handlers, churches that get together
and they pull out rattlesnakes and they're sitting there dancing with rattlesnakes and
about every year or two or three, I'm fall over dead. But they still believe because the book says,
if you believe in Jesus, you can drink poison and you won't die or you can take up a serpent and he
will bite you and you won't die, but yet they get several a year fall out dead because of it.
But they still go right back and do the same thing. And if you brought anything else into their
belief spectrum, you're probably going to melt their brain. Didn't you also say that sometimes
beings come out of the orbs? Yeah, I have a video of one coming out of an orb. Do we have that?
I have it on my phone right here. I don't know how you're going to, I can download it. Is it the same
video to this photo? No, that's not it. No, that's a pretty interesting photo though, if you want to
show that while I find this. Well, I have this one that we showed them yesterday. Oh, is this the
one of the person walking through the woods? It is very dark, but yeah. This person right here you
can see is our friend Laurie. Yeah. And we're, I wasn't there, but this was in a wooded area behind
our old home. So it's a little shady here, but you can see the light daylight outside beyond the
trees. But this figure here was not anyone in our party. So whenever they looked at the photo later,
there was just this fully fledged figure standing in front of Laurie, and also this peculiar flash
of light appeared right behind her. Right. Turn your airdrop on if you know how there.
I'm going to send you what you're going to see here. This video she's getting now.
Okay. Is this the video of the thing coming out of the orb? No, she should be getting it now.
Okay. This video down? That one. Okay. Now, let me tell you before you start this what you're
going to see. Okay. I write about this in my book. There was a lady by the name of Sharon,
very close to me and this family. We met her. I met her in a chapter in the book about how
this Bible college tried to set me up and it backfired on them. The whole audience left with
me and left them sitting. But one of the ladies there was sick, had kidney cancer and her cancer,
she had one kidney already removed and her second kidney was already massed at
size with cancer and her chemo wasn't working. So she was looking at death.
And I met her on a Saturday night. It's in the book. There's a lot about it. But
Sunday morning, or Monday morning, she went in for a scan and it was gone. Her kidney cancer was
gone and she was healed from it. So a couple of years later, she calls me and we stayed in touch,
but she had cancer, had come back in her lungs and she had stage four lung cancer.
And she called me worried. She had to go in for a scan on Monday, this next Monday,
and said, can I come to your house? Can I come for prayer? I want you to help me because word had
gotten around about this healing thing, which we bypassed earlier. So she shows up from two hours
away on Friday evening or Saturday evening with her about half a dozen friends. It was about five
or six of them in total, all ladies. I had three Native American friends. We were born in,
I was born in Robinson County, which is where the Tuscaroras are from North Carolina. The tribe
is there. So wonderful people. I was raised with them all my life and three of them actually called
me and said, can we come by? We want to see the burning tree. I said, absolutely perfect time to
come because I have a lady that's sick and we all said prayer for her. So they show up at my house
and Sharon is standing on my left and her friend, one of them standing on my right, where I'm right
between these two ladies and everybody else is meandering around. It's about eight or 10 people
there, more. And you'll hear the natives standing at the burning tree singing, singing there or
whatever they're singing. So chant. And at 31 seconds in the video, you'll see an orb appear
six foot away right in front of us. And it's rotating. They're always spinning. And it comes
right up to me five or six foot from me and then flashes. When they flash like that is when these
beings step out of these orbs. So the being comes out of the orb. And now the orb is inside the
being. So you can see this translucent figure with the orb inside. And so that's how they come.
I've seen them many times do this. And it moves to my left out of screen, right in front of Sharon.
And on Monday morning, all her cancer was gone, but one tiny little speck. She's cancer free today.
How long after again? How long after was it all gone? It was, it was gone. All these masses in
her lungs were gone, but one tiny little speck. How many days later? The weekend that Monday morning.
So you'll hear them singing here and then watch at 31 seconds. It'll flash, but there's you have to
stop and play with it to see the six foot tall, seven foot tall light being that comes out of that
orb. Okay, I'll try my best. Can't hear it.
Right about here. Oh, I got one finally. Now slow it down and rewind. You see the orb, that's the orb.
All right. There's the being during the flash. And that don't show it as good on this screen for
some reason. Yeah, the screen is very bright on here. But yeah, if you can look at that, you can see
the full blown beam, legs, arms and all. Really? Yeah. I don't know if I can turn it to you.
See how bright that orb is? Yeah. So where's the beam? To the left of the screen.
This is inside the beam now, this orb. Can you go frame by frame, if you hit the side arrows
on the keyboard, on the bottom left of the keyboard itself? Yeah, you can go frame by frame there.
All right, go back the other way to it, peers. Come on back and you'll see the orb appear and
approach us. Right now, right here, the orb appears. I've already backed up. So I'll back up again
to before. And it flashes. We're before now. Okay. This is headed forward. Okay, now we're
going forwards. Orb appears. Flash, there's one flash. Yeah. It's like one frame. Yeah. Now it's
gonna go away. So go back to that one. So during that one frame is when you're saying you see the
beam? Yeah. Yeah. But that frame right there is the beam. And now the orb stays inside of the
beam. And you can see if you look at it on a good shot, a good camera or a computer, you can see
a translucent figure move and the orb is with it. Yeah, right there, we can only see like a sliver
of something. Right. But you can see the difference on this computer. Right. Yeah, you can.
But that, that was right. That was in 2014, I think. Remember, I couldn't share anything before
2012. Right. After 2012, I began to share it with everybody. But when 2013 comes along, the lady
comes again. And she texts me to some desert place, which I perceive as Utah. I'm pretty sure it is.
I've been obsessed with it. And I think she's going to come back. And I'll be able to film her there.
It's bizarre. Yeah, it's pretty bizarre. So Sharon, what did you make of her being healed
of the cancer that literally two days later? That's why she came. That's why she came. Yeah,
and see, let me say this, in 2013, when the lady came back, and I went about this,
take me to Utah, when I saw her, she imparted another thing on me that I didn't, I had it before,
but I didn't realize it until two weeks later. This is how it arose. And this is what got NASA,
Tim involved with the health thing. Easter, 2013, I had the experience with her again.
May the fifth, I think, it was just a few days later, less than two weeks later,
this investigator from Canada calls me and wants to come by and visit. He's on the way to Miami,
and we live right along 95. So it was five minutes off 95 for him. He said, can I stop? I'm leaving
Washington, going to Miami. I'm just sure it's that night if you want. So he did. And my Labrador,
Nelly, was, this is Nelly. She was walking along beside us. We went out to the tree, and he must
have took 20 pictures of the tree, and we talked with 15, 20 minutes standing there. Nelly was
laying on the ground beside me. We get back to the edge of the patio. We walked all the way back.
It's about 75 yards out there. So when we get back to the patio, my kids are on the patio,
hanging out, sitting around. Grant and I stopped right at the edge of the cement. Nelly stops,
and she's laying there beside me. She walked everywhere we went. She'd walked and stopped and
lay down. So I looked at Grant. I said, Grant, kids are here. You want us to help you get your bags?
You can go ahead and put them in the house and use the bathroom or whatever. He's like, yeah,
why not? So he's between me and the house. I'm looking at him at the back door. So he turns his
back and he starts towards the door. Nelly stands up off the ground, and when she walked by him,
I saw blood shoot out of her neck in a long stream, and it wet the whole side of his pants.
Went right by Grant and wet his pants, and I had pictures of it. And she left the trail of blood
going in and ran in the back door. Now dogs are getting in front of you and try to go in before
you do. Well, that's what she did. Door was wide open. Blood spraying everywhere, and I freaked out,
oh my God, what's happening to my dog? And I ran in and I tackled her. She got five or six feet in
the back door when I grabbed her. Blood all over the floor, and at a laminate floor, it's like
slipping on grease. And I picked her up, and it was all I could do to get her up, because I was
dealing with rheumatoid then, and it was just a struggle. I met it to the patio later down,
and I looked at her neck and she had a hole, maybe inch and a half, two inches long, a gash
across her vein right there, and blood's just pouring out. So I laid my hand on her neck,
and blood's pouring up through my fingers like this, and feel her heart beat. She was just kind
of squirming, but she won't fight in too hard. I look up at them, and I realized that she was going
to die. I knew it, because they weren't calling no ambulance. There wasn't no time to get her to
the doctor. We lived 20 miles or 20 minutes from anywhere, and everybody's freaked out,
Grant's sitting there taking pictures. He's recording this whole thing. And I said,
what am I going to do? And I looked up at the sky, and I said, Lord, what am I going to do? She's
going to die right here. And as soon as I said that, I felt this energy come through my hand,
and I felt her go completely limp. And when I raised my hand, there was no more hole in her
neck. Nothing, it was gone. Everybody witnessed it, and it freaked me out. I was not there, no.
But all her brothers were there. It was a weird story to come home to though, I will say. But
there was a lot of witnesses to it. Grant, a UFO investigator from Canada, he's one of the most
famous out there. He's the one that saw it all. He took that picture. I didn't. And there were
more pictures of it, of the blood going in the house and all. But we couldn't figure out what
happened at all. How did she get the hole in her neck? What did that? I didn't know who to call,
so I called Tim. I said, Tim, the craziest thing that's happened today, you won't believe this.
This is the same dog. It's so pixelated on that screen. But anyhow, he told me, he said, Chris,
he said, maybe the phenomenon was showing you, you have a gift that you need to try to do something
with. And so that changed my life that year to, this was 2014, to where it is today. That's what I
do. I've done more, I'm trying to help people who are sick than I ever reveal or talk about. It's
every day of my life. I have people write me, people who are sick, people I go and visit and
try to help. And I've seen some miracles happen. Why me? I don't know. What caused it? I don't know.
But it is, and it happened. And immediately, Tim's like, you need to follow this. And that's
what got me involved with him, with his encouragement to help, get me to help others,
and working on his project he was working on for stem cells. And it just led from
a two, three weeks later, a month later, I get a call from the guy in that great big house you
were wondering about and said, we have a child in Washington that's sick. And he's from a prominent
family. And we want you to see if you can help him. Like, Lord, I don't know what to do. This is all
new to me. I have no clue what has happened. How did this all happen? Why? You know, what do I do?
He said, well, you just need to come try. I'm like, well, it's 4th of July. My family's coming home
the weekend. All the kids, we're going to do something. And he's like, what's more important?
You know, hanging out and partying or helping some child that is got to make a wish. He's going
to die. He's not going to live past 12, 13 years old. I said, well, you got me there. So next day,
I was on an airplane to Washington, and I was sitting at that young boy in the bottom
right there. To his left is Jim Simivan. This whole party, that was his bar mitzvah,
was the heads of the CIA, the director. Ryan and this is Mike Morrell, the deputy director.
This little boy is right in there, a group of people. And so when I got to his house,
I was terrified. I didn't know what to do. I didn't know where to start. You know, I've been asked to
do this. What the heck do I do? I don't even know how. I help the dog, much less to help a child or
somebody sick. And so I've sat there with him and his mom and dad for several hours, just talking
and feeling out this situation and silently praying, Lord, help me. You got me into this. How
do I deal with this? What do I do? And this boy said, not an audible voice, but just something
spoke to me and said, just hug him. Just reach out and hug him. And so I waited till the perfect
time to do so. And I reached out and I hugged him real good. And he couldn't eat. He couldn't eat.
He hadn't been able to eat most of his life at all. If he ate, he would throw up. He had this
mitochondrial DNA disease, which your body just doesn't digest food and get the nourishment.
Usually they don't live past 12, 13 years old or dead. And so he had to make a wish.
And this group of people pulled around him.
And he's in college now. He's completely healed. He's fine.
Wow.
Yep.
And it is a lot more to it. In that party right there, you see all these people, they're hundreds
and their people, hundreds of Washington, Washington, DC, the most prominent Intel folks,
judges, doctors, cardiologists, his grandpa was their cardiologist.
And I'm sitting at a table next to Jim's table. These big, round white tables were
clothed with Jewish flags. And it was just, I never been to a bar mitzvah. But the table behind me,
I heard this ruckus and the band, they were dancing just like that whole crowd. You know,
they know how to party and they were having the best time. I'm sitting watching my children have fun.
And I heard this ruckus. Next thing I know, Jim's wife, Debbie grabs me said, picks me up basically
and pulls me to this other table and said, you got to help this guy. And he was slumped over face down.
I mean, alcohol completely turned white and they were trying to revive him couldn't get him away.
And they drug me through the crowd and I put my hands on his shoulders. The very incident I did,
he set up and took a big breath and they looked at me and said, my God, you saved him. That happened
in that party. Wow. Yep.
In front of these people, imagine
that's Washington. How do you, how do you even deal with that? Like being you
and that happening? Like how, how do you even comprehend that?
I don't. I don't.
Yeah.
That's amazing, man.
Dad's helped a lot of people and he, he doesn't always talk about it because he's afraid of
sounding like, you know, that he does special things. He doesn't want the credit for it,
but he really has put a lot of energy and a lot of effort into helping people.
Not always in front of people either, you know, behind closed doors.
Right. Most of us private.
He's very emotional when it comes to that, understandably.
This little boy, he's in his 20s now. He's a junior in college. Wow. Yep.
But no, I don't know. I don't know, Dan, I have no clue.
Sorry, Dad. It's always interesting when, when people ask us what our experiences,
you know, they expect us to say we see UFOs and aliens, but it's so much more complicated than
that. And it comes down to this sort of thing as well. How do you explain that to someone
in a 10 minute, you know, conversation that it also is so spiritual and there's like a healing
aspect to it. It's so multifaceted that I don't think people can really wrap their heads around it.
But if like anyone could try to understand from a base perspective, it's just like this is a
benevolent spiritual experience that is open to everybody that for some reason we are, you know,
I guess semi-responsible for sharing and promoting to people.
Is there, if it were evil, why would we be, why would he be able to heal people, you know?
Yeah. But I don't see it as me doing it. It's, it's the phenomenon maybe.
Whether you're a vessel or whether you're doing it, it's like happening around us. Yeah.
And so I'm not saying necessarily you have powers or anything, but there is evidence and facts
that you, for some reason, are surrounded by healing. And if this were an evil sort of
phenomenon, why would this happen? Yeah. Be happening.
It's, it's really hard to comprehend all of this. I mean, it's, it's so mind blowing.
Yeah. It's, it's incredible. It's incredible.
And there's, there, I know, like we talked about this a little bit last night, but
there's people who try to gain this or, or tap into this phenomenon the same way you do,
right? Like I know Tim, there's Diana talked about in her new book, how Tim,
he has like a protocol that he tries to follow to try to like cleanse his spirit and, and meditate
and be in the sunlight to where he can sort of, people can, can learn or train themselves to tap
into, into something else that you are just intuitively you're already hardwired into it.
Yeah. And, and one way or another. Well, that's what this, they're studying my brain for, right?
They know it's connected under history channel thing. The scientist said he's
can just, you know, Buddhist monks studies 30 years of his life to get to this enlightened state.
And they said, well, he just goes in it instantly, just at my fingers and I'm there and I don't
understand it. I don't, I don't know that I'm even doing that. I just, I don't, I don't understand.
But that's questions I don't know. And I try to stay away from that. I just had the,
I have a mission to share this and the way it comes, you know.
Well, I can't wait to go out and watch the sky with you guys again tonight. I'll tell you that
much. Yeah. Thank you so much for coming on here and sharing the story. We just talked about it for
like four hours, I think. Yeah. I will link your book UFO of God below for people to check it out.
I highly recommend it. One of the most gripping books I've ever read. It's phenomenal.
Appreciate that. Thank you for writing it. And thanks again. Is there anything else that I should,
any, anything else I should tell people about to get a hold of you guys or find you guys online?
Yeah, you can find my website is UFOofGod.com and there you can find a link to Amazon
to buy the book or you can go straight to Amazon or wherever books are sold, I guess.
But you can find me on TikTok. I post about this stuff. My name is Blood So Baby because I'm the
baby, you know. So I post stuff relevant to the story on there. And then I have a website
called Emily Holloway.com where I teach voice, but we do have one announcement before we go and
then we'll we're good. So the also on my website, you can find my Instagram where I post videos.
A few hundred videos or photos on there. I'll make sure I link all those below. Yeah. And
this I think we can just go ahead and talk about this without getting into any details.
This book has been is in the is in the process of making a motion picture.
Oh wow. Yeah. Exciting. Yeah. This is our first we got to go ahead to just say that much and that's
all we're allowed to say. Okay. This is the first time publicly we're admitting that there is a
motion picture. Teasing me. I can't wait. It's under development right now. Okay. We'll have to keep
me posted. Remember as it might be three parts, three shows. Wow. Yeah. Exciting stuff. Let's see
where it goes. Well, cool. I hope I hope this helped get the word out. And again, I can't thank you
guys enough. Thank you. Honestly, I appreciate it. This is wonderful. All right. Goodbye world.
