Is it true, you were one of the first, or were you the first active duty fighter pilot
to come out and talk publicly about UAPs?
Yeah, specifically active duty.
I was actually active duty when I did first speak about this.
David Fraver, I commend David Fraver.
He was kind of the first one to, I think, come out and speak about this.
At the time, he was no longer in the military.
Why is it that you were the first one to come out and talk about this?
Because people have been witnessing this and observing these things for long before you came out, right?
Yeah, that's my understanding of it.
So, I mean, why was I the first?
That's a great question, I think.
Perhaps I wasn't, just maybe I'm the one we're hearing about.
But from my position where I was, it was a little different because we weren't just seeing a one-off
object on the radar or on a camera and they never see it again and question whether, you know,
we really saw it or not.
We were seeing this on such a regular basis that it was something that we were briefing to every time.
We were not only briefing to it, but we were also informing others that did not have the
proper technology to see them.
And we were notifying the general public, essentially, with our notice to airmen,
essentially broadcasting out that there were objects that we didn't understand what they were,
but they were essentially a safety of flight hazard.
So, for me to speak about it, it was just trying to solve that particular problem.
And that's why I spoke out about it.
And there was just the day we're recording today, which is, what is today, the 13th of January.
And I think it was two or three days ago, the report came out that there was now over 500 reported
incidents of UAP sightings or UFO sightings by like service members or military members.
Yeah, my understanding is that reporting comes strictly from the reporting mechanisms that
have been created within the Navy and the Air Force.
And so, yes, they are seeing more.
And we would expect to see that, you know, assuming what I've been saying is true.
An increase in reporting will lead to an increase in reports.
And so, that's what we're seeing.
Now, it doesn't necessarily mean the quality of the report will increase and it'll likely have
more false negatives when we do have that.
But generally speaking, you know, they're out there and now we have the agency to
actually report them.
And so, we're seeing the data come in.
I believe the New York Times, there was a bunch of articles about it.
But the New York Times article, I'm sure you saw, was speculating that a bunch of it was
basically junk in the sky or weather balloons.
And they even mentioned, I think they quoted about the gimbal and the GoFast video saying
that the GoFast video, the object was only going 30 miles per hour.
Did you see that?
I don't remember if they specifically called out the GoFast video in those articles.
But generally speaking, you know, there are aviators out there that are talking about this
constantly.
They've talked to me about it and they tell me how this is something that they're talking
about in their cockpits all the time now.
What they did express disappointment in was the fact that there were no reliable
mainstream media organizations that they could talk to about this.
Not that they're necessarily looking to go out and make news, but they are looking for an
opportunity to tell their story.
And what we're seeing from the mainstream media is just kind of the same old little
giggling little, okay, well, maybe it's real, maybe it's not.
And these people are putting their careers at risk to come forward to talk about this.
So to have it blown off like that didn't really go over well to the aviators I spoke with.
They're saying that the big mainstream media corporations weren't taking them seriously?
Essentially, they didn't feel like they could go and have a respectable conversation about this.
And we see that with some of the reporting we've had where they've essentially dismissed
these sightings.
And what that does is act opposite of what I've been pushing for, which is to increase
reporting.
If you're going to mock the aviators when they actually do report something,
well, guess what's going to happen?
Naturally, you know, some people are going to second guess whether they should report
if you have in our news organization like New York Times, you know, putting things out that
are detrimental to the safe operation of aircraft, right?
We have to report safety incidents.
And if we are minimizing those that report it, then guess what?
We're not going to have as many reports.
Yeah, a Navy aviator seems like it would be the last person you would want to mock.
Well, it's that topic, right?
We kind of did it to ourselves.
It's a conversation where it may not be pure mocking, but it's almost a defensive mechanism,
at least what I've seen.
People immediately want to laugh when they hear this topic.
And I don't think they're laughing because they truly think it's funny.
I just think they don't know how to react, right?
And so they just burst out laughing and then they listen for a real response and sometimes
they're shocked when they hear one.
But I think that we're going to see people continue to kind of hold that flag of ridicule
until they convince themselves of it.
I don't think that one thing will be able to show them that data and they'll say,
okay, that's clearly something interesting.
I'm going to now stop mocking this and really pay attention.
I see some of these people kind of holding on for quite a while until they have real evidence
to stand behind.
Yeah, I don't see that.
I don't see many people that have that stance really.
Maybe it's just the people I surround myself with, the people I talk to.
But it's interesting hearing you say that because you have, I'm sure you deal with a
lot of people that are still active military or still in the Navy.
So a lot of people that you talk to that are still active service,
are they the ones that you're referring to that still kind of are holding onto that stigma?
Well, certainly I'll say in the military, but I think it's more complicated than that
because now that there is a classified reporting mechanism for this,
I wouldn't expect them nor would I ask them to communicate about it.
However, I do still think the stigma is there.
The stigma that I was referring to primarily is on the commercial side.
Since they do actually have the agency to have a conversation about this,
they really want to.
Some of the aviators I've talked to have got some pushback from their employees about speaking on
this, including seasoned assist orders.
I don't think they're necessarily asking them to cease talking about UAP or UFO, but
just generally talking about operations of the aircraft.
I could see why they might have an issue with pilots communicating a safety issue publicly
throughout, without their filter.
Where are the seasoned assist coming from?
Just corporate airlines or commercial airlines,
when there are pilots that are interested in speaking out,
occasionally they have received seasoned assist orders.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, so I'm interested.
What was your take on that new report coming out with over 500 new sightings?
Or was it 500 total or 500 new?
I think it was 500 total.
Yeah.
Well, it's a good thing because we're going to continue to see those numbers growing,
I think, as more people report.
And again, that's only military.
What also came out at the same time as the report was also a
interesting PowerPoint presentation that was given to the National Transportation Board.
By Dr. Sean Kirkpatrick, which kind of fell out actually, I think the same day,
which has some interesting information regarding how serious they're taking this aviation safety
threat.
Additionally, we also have seen the release of even more of what they're calling the
Range Fowler reports.
Those are the actual reports from aviators who are,
those are the data sets that they're generating these reports from.
Right.
And so those data sets, I would, I'll suggest, are much more interested in the report themselves.
You actually hear from the pilots themselves about the objects that they're seeing and why
they're so confusing.
Interesting.
Okay.
So for people out there who may not be familiar,
can you summarize your career as a Navy pilot?
I'll try.
Yeah, it's, I mean, it's really not that complicated.
I, you know, I'm at a four-year degree.
Get your degree in mechanical space engineering,
from Worcester Polytechnical Institute.
My junior year decided that the degree I was going for
wasn't really that exciting enough, essentially.
I had an internship that really sucked.
So I, I essentially changed my major to the aerospace and decided I wanted to go fly jets,
applied to officer candidate school, got in as a pilot.
And essentially, you know, the rest is kind of history.
I just kind of kept passing tests and, and moving forward.
And, you know, luckily the needs of the Navy were such that I was able to get the,
the aircraft that I wanted, which isn't always the case.
But yeah, I joined, or excuse me, I got in the F-18 Super Hornet for the first time.
I believe in 2011 and VFA 106 on the East Coast.
I was there for a year and then immediately assigned to VFA 11, the Red Rippers,
where I flew the F-18 for three and a half years.
And two combat deployments.
Once I was finished up with that, I went to Merdine, Mississippi,
where I was an advanced strike fighter instructor.
And the T-45 Gauzhawk, teaching people how to land aircraft carriers
and dogfight, drop bombs, fly formation, all that good stuff.
And that was, that was when I first actually spoke out about this kind of near my,
the end of my time in that instructor tour.
And that was the last tour before I got out as well.
So I was in for about 11 years.
Wow. What's it like being a fighter pilot?
I don't know, I'm still figuring it out.
It's one of the like, it's one of the most fascinating things.
You know, they make movies about it and there's the mechanics of it.
And just, it's just hard to wrap your mind around flying a machine like that
and then landing it on this boat in the middle of the ocean.
I mean, it's just, it's hard to grasp, you know?
I mean, a lot of people in the military do kind of like mundane things
that aren't necessarily as thrilling as flying in a jet, you know?
Even people that are, you know, boots on the ground in the Middle East and stuff like that.
It's kind of, it's just not as, I mean, it's definitely terrifying,
but doing what you were doing is just like on a whole another level, it feels like.
Well, I mean, I was very fortunate to be able to be in a position like that.
Truly, for most of it, it's, you know, a matter of your own skill
and how you can perform.
So, in a way, it's unique in that there's just so much concentrated effort and focus on
applying the skill sets to the maximum capability of the aircraft and the weapons.
All right?
We don't go out there and fight you at 60%.
We're always pushing the envelope.
We're always max performing the jet.
And guys and gals on the ground as well are doing that,
but when we're up there, we're very protected in a sense,
even going into combat, at least in the environments we've been in,
we're not doing air-to-air combat.
And so, my job may have been more thrilling,
but I have that most respect for the folks that are on the ground doing the hard work there.
It was, you know, my great honor to be able to fly around in Afghanistan and Iraq
to provide support for the people on the ground.
That's essentially, you know, what I was there to do.
What can you talk about as far as what you were doing in the Middle East,
flying, and like what sort of missions or objectives did you have,
and how similar was it to the Top Gun movie?
Well, I was trained to do flights like you see in the Top Gun movie.
That's typically called like a high threat.
We would call it close air support.
That was a pre-planned strike, which is relatively rare,
but we do train to do low ingresses like that.
The reality is a little more complicated, however,
because typically what we're doing is kind of playing chess
while we're down there.
We're not necessarily just trying to go as fast as we can toward the target.
We're usually identifying things and executing tactic while we're performing down there.
And to get to your question earlier, that's really what's so difficult about being a fighter pilot.
It's not the flying itself.
It's learning how to employ that weapon, because that's what it is to us.
We don't learn to fly that F-18 for very long, maybe a couple months.
I think it's our third flight is when we fly by ourselves in it.
We're trained aviators at that point.
What we're doing is the learning how to employ a weapon system.
And it's very complicated to learn the tactics and the timings and the distances
and all the things that are required to survive up there if we are to go into combat.
What sort of targets are you going after?
And what sort of objectives do you have?
What is day-to-day life like on the aircraft carrier in the Middle East?
Are you spending your days and nights on an aircraft carrier, I'm assuming?
Yeah, so once we leave, we're pretty much out there for 9, 10, 11 months or so,
depending on how long it is.
But on a daily basis, essentially, you're looking at anywhere between eight and nine-hour missions.
You're going to launch sometime between five in the morning and, well, I don't want to use times,
but pretty much all day we're launching and going out in those missions.
And once we fly out there, it's very complex to kind of get into the battle space.
We fuel several times with tankers to get out there.
So it's quite the trip.
And then once we're out there, really what we do is we get tasked to various ticks,
as they're often called, troops in contact scenarios where we have to buster over as fast
as we can to provide support to those troops that are in combat.
And that either looks like us identifying targets on our own with our sensor systems
and either questioning or having authorization due to the role of engagement to employ on that.
Or talking with someone that's on the ground or in some base somewhere that is identifying
targets for us, then we come in and prosecute them.
And so that's the majority of what we do on a regular basis in, say,
Afghanistan or Iraq, at least what we were doing.
However, a few years ago, we were also operating near Syria, and there were aircraft that were
launched, and we actually had one of our first combat shoot downs since the early 90s, not too
long ago. First one since the early 90s. Yep. I believe it was a Syrian MiG that was
essentially getting too close to one of the fueling operations, fueling tankers,
loaded jet. I don't know the specifics, but either way, so we were seeing a little bit of
air-to-air combat over there as well, which is somewhat unique. Air-to-air combat is unique,
like dogfighting? It is. It's not something we do on a regular basis or trained to, at least over
the past decade or so. You guys more have strategic strikes from air-to-ground, right?
Well, let me be clear. We do train all of it 100%. We don't even prioritize one over the other.
But when we are in those operations in the Middle East, we already have air superiority,
so we're not focused on air-to-air combat. We're simply employing on the ground.
Right, right.
Not to say we don't carry. We do have the weapons, as we've seen with that shoot-down,
but primarily it's air-to-surface. When you're training to become a pilot,
how important is vision, like human vision? What sort of, do you do any tests on vision?
Oh, yeah.
And what is that like? Can you walk me through that?
Well, I don't think it's overly complicated. It's just, is your vision correctable to 2020
and below some limit? My vision was not. I had to have PRK, laser eye surgery before I joined.
I did one eye at a time since I was still in college at the time,
so I could still see the blackboard. So I did that to correct my vision so I could fly.
And it's pretty common. I mean, you can fly with glasses. Yeah, it just has to be correctable.
Interesting. Yeah, because you're moving so fast and you have to make,
I heard you describe it before, like when you're flying, you're kind of,
you're moving so fast, you kind of just don't even have time to think about anything.
You're just sort of reacting to your environment and just using your senses and your intuition
to make decisions.
A lot of times, yeah. I mean, I think the trade of a good fighter pilot would be to
overcome that to some degree and push that. There are best practices and there are tactics,
and there's standard operating procedure. How do we push past that bubble to adapt to a real
life scenario in order to engage the targets? Now, an air to surface arena, everything's pretty
static and fixed, but when you start talking about large air-to-air battles, that's when it
gets a little more art, a little less science. What are the biggest dangers of your job when
you were a fighter pilot? Probably crashing into the back of the boat. Oh, really?
Yeah, that's probably the most riskiest thing we do.
What is that like? How do you, how can you describe the difficulties and landing and
taking off from an aircraft carrier? Yeah, so I guess the best way to describe it,
and so I was actually a landing signal officer, which means I was specially trained
as kind of an authority to land on the boat within my squadron and the air wing.
I was eventually trained up to a head landing signal officer for my squadron,
which generally means that means I would go to the back of the boat with my team,
with an actual like telephone looking thing and talk to the pilot as they're coming into
the land. And what we do is we train them to our voices so that if we give a verbal command,
they immediately apply that command, whether they agree with it or not, because there are
misconceptions, visual misconceptions, and cues that they can receive under certain scenarios,
and that's why it's so important that they listen to our voice once we start talking
over what we call the ball or the lens, the landing system. And so, you know, what is it like?
It's, it's difficult and it's never something, you don't just get it one day. You know, I've seen
commanders and admirals, you know, having the worst passes, just like the new guys.
And so it's very much, it's very much kind of like one-on-one in a sense, you know?
It's just you in the boat and a lot of times you'll, at least for me, it was very meditative and
almost serene, especially at night on these long straight ends when you can barely see
anything. I can send you a video of a night landing that I have. It's pretty cool. Yeah,
you just see a speck of light in the distance for a while and then it's just an aircraft carol,
as soon as we're landing on it. But, you know, how do you do it? Like, you have to,
it's so difficult because imagine if you were driving a car at about 170 miles an hour and,
you know, three-dimensionally. Car is kind of easy because you can only go two ways really, but
you need to drive this car within a one-foot, one-foot box or fly your head through a one-foot
by one-foot box. While you're in the cockpit, going over the aircraft carrier at a particular plane,
your head needs to go through that one-foot by one-foot box in order to catch a three-wire on
a perfect pass, essentially. So, about 170 miles an hour, you're constantly making corrections to
the right because the aircraft carrier is an angled deck and so it's slightly moving to the right.
So, you come down, you're making these little corrections, looking to fly your head, kind of
on that curve, you know, you're kind of curving down a little bit to fly your head through that
box and that's essentially a perfect pass. Wow, man. It's gonna be tough. And there's a lot of
risk there. Flying a perfect pass is not what we teach. We don't want people to fly a perfect
pass. We want them to fly a slightly high pass because that's safer because if you're flying
a perfect pass, any descent is gonna put you below glide slope and that's where it's dangerous.
Have you ever failed in doing that or have you, was every single landing kind of flawless?
Oh, no. Definitely not flawless, but fail now. I'm still here, so.
Right, but I'm sure not every failed attempt would be fatal, would it?
No. So, when we come in, well, I want to call it a failure, not the trap. So,
sometimes you do everything right and you just don't trap. So, what we do when we come down is
we immediately put our speed brakes in, which kind of slows us down and we bring the throttles all
the way up. As soon as we touch down, we rotate. So, it's almost as if if we didn't catch the wire,
we're just bouncing off the deck, which is exactly what we do. If we do catch the wire,
then it stops us there. And so, if we miss it, we just outs up and go around and do it again.
And I don't know if I call that a failure per se, but that's kind of the negative example
of a pass that doesn't involve a crash. Right. That would be the best case scenario,
other than catching the hook on the wire. Pretty much, yeah. Yeah, the worst thing you'd want to
do is clip the edge of the ship and take off your landing gear. Yeah. What's the worst thing you
ever saw on the aircraft carrier like that, like with a landing gone wrong? I've seen a tail hook
hit the back of the boat. It's called a ramp strike, but it wasn't too bad. It didn't explode,
which was nice. I mean, because sometimes the hook, it hits the back of the carrier and you know,
the metal shrapnel goes everywhere, but it didn't happen. My buddy ejected off the front of the
cat. It wasn't a landing, but he ingested foreign object debris or FOD during the cat shot, which
took out one of his engines. And there was a subsequent issue with the other engine as well,
and they ended up ejecting shortly off the front of the boat. Really? They're pretty low too. His
was a weapons system officer in the back seat got pretty messed up. I broke his back in several
spots and you know, X, Y and Z. He's actually flying again. I think either was or is the
commanding officer at XO of the Blue Angels now, actually. Wow. How rare is it for someone to eject,
especially during training? I don't know the numbers, but I'm sure there's a number calculated
in hours of flight time, but I've witnessed, I think five ejections. You've witnessed five
ejections. I've flown over two of them. The fireball is in the jet. What? Is this during combat
missions? No, these are all training. These are all training. Wow. It was much more dangerous
in combat. But you yourself, you've never had to eject. No, no. I don't think I would have survived
my back. It would have got messed up. Did you ever talk to these guys after they ejected?
I was responsible for investigating some of these missiles. So I had to interview these guys.
What do they say? What does that experience like? It's a lot for some guys. I think it kind of
depends. They kind of like, I mean, in movies, they kind of gloss over. I mean, it seems like
something that when they do it in movies, it seems like the guys are always good to go.
Especially at the recent Top Gun. What does he go on like 10 mock and then he just walks into a
diner? We should all be so lucky. But no, I've seen, I've seen, I say, I'll say varying degrees
of response, right? Some younger guys are easy and happy to just brush it off and go back up.
They're guys that have families and stuff. It can really shake them. I mean,
these guys are getting almost as close to death as you can get and still surviving some of these
times. I mean, one of the cases I'm thinking about, I mean, they basically ejected at the
ejection window, basically 135 degrees down about 400 feet up from the ground, essentially ejecting
into the ground. Oh my God. And luckily they came out and they were able to swing at least once
before they hit. And they were fine. But, you know, they had varying responses to how that kind of
made them feel and their comfort level. And I was, you know, the Navy trained me to be an
Aviation Safety Officer. They sent me down to their Naval Aviation Safety School for about five
weeks. And that was my job. That was one of my collateral jobs as a pilot. If for when someone
goes down, I go out there and I figure it out, you know, I clean the pieces up and figure out
what happened and publish a report and then go into the manuals and try to make it so it doesn't
happen again. We had to do that, you know, a number of times. Every time there's a mishap,
that's what happens. And that's why we say our pocket checklists are typically written in blood
because we usually fix the problems afterwards. And I've seen that lesson over and over again.
And I can't say for certain, but perhaps that was part of my motivation to kind of speak up
about the UAP topic because it was just a matter of time for someone just slammed into one of these
objects and we lost air crew. Yeah. So when was the first time you experienced one of these objects,
the first time that you noticed one of these things? Can you explain like what was happening
before you saw them and then what was happening after you saw them? From what I understand,
you had some new equipment. Yeah. So we got back from our deployment on the USS Enterprise in 2012
and we ended what's called a workup, excuse me, a maintenance phase where essentially we kind of
give our good jets to the four deployed squadrons and we cannibalize some jets and we fix some stuff.
And our jets just so happened to be ready to be upgraded to a better radar, had the cooling
systems already installed in X, Y, and Z. And so eventually we upgraded. And as soon as we upgraded,
we started noticing objects on our radar that we hadn't seen without that upgrade. And so we went
from flying around with our APG-73 radar and we see our little sweep, right? And just like a radar
you've seen in a movie. And APG-73 you call it? Yeah, APG-73. Okay. And it's kind of like a...
Is this the thing like the clock that goes around in the circle? It kind of, but we only,
we see it kind of just like as a box with a line. Okay. Box with a line. And so,
you know, what do we see? We basically just see like a little icon, a little blip and it tells us
the speed and various kinematics about it. And that's what we would expect to see. We weren't
seeing anything on APG-73. We upgraded our radars to APG-79. Big jump. Kind of like digital to
mechanical to digital in a sense. Much better, stronger, more powerful, see farther, all that stuff.
And we go out there and we'd see objects. We'd see things on the radar. And it's like, okay, well,
you know, I just, you know, does my wingman see this? No, he has a different radar. I had,
you know, so we kind of just thought it was some kind of error at first. We were seeing objects
on a radar that weren't there with the other one. It was just a natural assumption. They were
vulnerable, not vulnerable, but they were prone. There was all those errors that are involved in
things like this. And so we thought maybe some of those had carried over. But, you know, long story
short, we eventually got close enough to see these not only with the radar, but also with the
camera system that's on the jet, the FLIR. And so that kind of tucks in on our cheek pad here.
Whenever we look at stuff on the radar, all our sensors go to that spot.
And so as people were kind of noticing these and taking locks on them and our sensors would go
over, eventually people were close enough to see that there was IR energy coming from those spots
as well. What kind of energy? Infrared energy. Okay. So our camera system, the FLIR, shows us
either just like a camera view or IR energy, heat energy. And so that's what you see on, say, the
gimbal video, that black and white. He's able to switch it from black to white, right? You can switch
it from black hot to white hot, which means the white is the hot that you see on the screen or
black, just changing the contrast. Or you can go to like a full color mode, which is TV, you know.
It doesn't show you heat, but it shows you, you know, what you look through on the camera.
We typically fly with IR because you can see better, you can see further. It's more prominent.
And yeah, we're seeing IR energy come from these spots where radar was dropping us off,
essentially. And so at this point, we had to conclude that there was physically something
there. And we had to at least respect it as aviators and not, you know, get too close to
these objects or just ignore them and fly around them because we thought they were clutter.
Yeah. At this point, you know, we were confident they were physical,
though we didn't know the origins or even that it was overly remarkable.
What do you mean confident they were physical? What does that mean?
That if we were to fly through the spot that we, our radar was showing us there was something that
we could damage our aircraft. Okay. Generally speaking, right.
So what, what, what are the possibilities of, if it wasn't something physical,
what would show up on the radar that wasn't physical?
Well, there could be energy in that spot. There are, I believe plasmas can be captured on a radar
and other things you can have extremely thick clouds can return radar signals in the APG73.
And so even, even like temperature inversions where the air is extra thick with the older
systems could potentially show you radar track files. So that was our initial assumption that
there was some strange things like that. But now to have energy coming from that spot in this
guy as well in very precise manner, as if someone was shining an IR flashlight at us,
we had to make the assumption that they were physical at that point just for safety of flight.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by hostage tape. Nobody wants to be a mouth breather,
but the truth is 25 to 50% of the population habitually breathes through their mouths.
I, like many people, learned about the importance of nasal breathing when I first read James Nester's
book. And I have actually been sleeping with my mouth hole taped shut for the past two years.
And the problem isn't just snoring and sleep apnea. There is tons of science behind how mouth
breathing actually is responsible for an array of neurological, respiratory, and even metabolic
problems in humans. The nose not only filters bacteria in the air, it humidifies it, it removes
particulates in the air, and gives you a huge release of nitric oxide, which is extremely
effective in fighting off pathogens and viruses. Now I've tried probably close to a dozen different
brands of mouth tapes from Amazon and they all suck. Hostage tape is the king of mouth tapes.
It's perfect. It sticks perfectly, even if you have a beard and it's easy to get off. You just
put it, here I'll show you. It's not something like this. Comes off easily, doesn't chap your lips
when it comes off. Head on over to hostage tape dot com forward slash concrete to get your year
supply of hostage tape for a $150 discount, which equals like 55 cents a day to sleep better and
be healthier. That's hostage tape dot com forward slash K O N C R E T E. It's linked below back to
the show. When you saw these things, you mentioned you were flying with a wingman. What does that
mean when you're flying with a wing? Is that that's not the whizzo? That's not the person in the
cockpit with you, right? Nope. We'll have one person in the back seat called a weapon system
officer. And then if we have a wingman with us, if we're a section, that's two aircraft,
lead kind of trail like this, flying formation like that, and we'll go do our mission. Once we
get out there, maybe we'll break up, maybe we'll be fighting against each other. Maybe we'll fly
around as pairs and drop bombs. It's a million things we could do, but we'll fly out there in
close, close formation. Once we get into the areas, we'll do our stuff and then we'll join back up
and fly back as a pair. Okay. Is that typically how all missions are carried out with multiple jets
flying in formations and planned attacks like that? Is there ever a solo jet flying? There is.
There is all time, but I would say it's just as common to go out into. We pretty much,
it's just one of those things you might just go by yourself, but there's plenty of two sections
or singles or even four aircraft in what we call a division. So just all the above, frankly.
And what is it like to, sorry, I'm kind of like going off on a bunch of different dates,
but flying in formation, like what is that? How hard is that to learn?
That's like flying at the boat. So that's what I would tell the students, right? Because I had to
teach them that as well. And it's the same power motions, right? When you do that is when you land
at the boat. Because when you're on the boat, you have to ride a glide slope. If I add power,
I'm going to start going above that glide slope. And if I just keep the power there,
I'm going to keep going, right? That's to make what's called three-point power corrections.
I have to add power, get myself going in the right direction, pull it back to kind of
de-accelerate, then re-add power a little bit less to stabilize on that new higher glide slope.
Every time I have to make an adjustment, it requires three power corrections every time.
And so when you're flying the ball, boat, you're doing this the whole way down, just very, very
small. Actually, we'll leave our pinky up like this on the rail too, so we can have like a reference
point where we are. And so when you get close, you'll be just doing finger, you know, and moving
the two throttles just with your fingers and using that as a reference point, essentially.
When you're flying formation, the same thing, pinky up there. And now instead of your reference
being the glide slope, your reference is the other aircraft. And so if I am falling behind,
right, I have to add power to stop that de-acceleration so I can catch back up. And then,
you know, then I have to take power off the de-accelerate and then add a little bit back
to stabilize where I am in that relative position. So three-point power corrections all day long.
And if you're in perfectly clear skies, you might go out to a mile and do that, you know,
in a transit position where it's much easier and the small mistakes is not dangerous to kind of
look away for a second. But if you're in bad weather, man, you're gonna be a few feet away,
potentially for hours. Hours. Oh, God, yeah, it's painful. It's gonna be very painful. Holy
shit, man. My first flight into Iraq, I was on day one mission when our squadron got there. I was
one of the senior lieutenants in the airline at the time and only one in our squadron lieutenant
anyways that had been on a prior combat deployment. And so I got to go in on day one and we had to
go through a damn thunderstorm and not only that, but we had to tank in it. We were all running out
of gas. We're in a thunderstorm. The tanker's there and you're refueling in the air. Oh, yeah.
In a thunderstorm. Yeah. The very first guy, he could not get in the basket. He couldn't get in.
And he was getting frustrated. He ended up going below his bingo number, which means he should
have already diverted, right? Which is not good day one. You know, we don't necessarily have like
bases set up into that nature. But anyway, long story short, he ended up getting in and just
just how it is every day. It's just something to deal with all the time when you're flying. You
never know what you're going to get. Okay, back to where we were. Your first time you saw one of
these objects, you guys were you guys were flying in formation, doing a training day. What was the
weather like that day? Well, let me let me correct you a little bit. I don't want to, it's hard for
me to say what the first time was because you're seeing those radar never was like, okay, we're
seeing them and we didn't quite realize they were real. And then all right, they're on the
flyer. But then we did see them with our eyeballs. So this wasn't just like the first time it happened.
It wasn't just like this unbelievable experience like home. Okay. No, it was just kind of like,
ah, you know, something's messed up, right? The radar is messed up. And then when we're seeing
energy, it's like, okay, our curiosity is peaking a little bit. But, you know, you're
driving to survive and do what you're doing out there takes precedence over a lot of things. So
this is 2014. Yeah. But we were getting more curious as we were seeing them more. And then
eventually, one of my squadron mates, well, four of them, but two, one saw it, they were flying out
in a section. So two aircraft, four people, again, in this kind of formation, flying out to the working
areas. And there's a single spot in the sky where all the traffic going into those working areas goes
through. Cap point? Not a cap point, just an entry point. An entry point. Okay. What is the
difference? Yeah. Well, what, yeah, definitely what is the difference, but what is the reason for
that? So cap point is a, is kind of a tactical term that we use as a combat air patrol holding
position when we're looking for a line of defense against enemies. We might be holding at that
cap point such that we give a command to push and now we're attacking enemies. The entry point is
just the administrative point in the sky that we all agree upon that is the safest way to enter an
area. For entering only? Yes. And there's a separate spot for exiting? Same spot,
1,000 feet below. Oh, wow. Okay. All right. And so it's one of the busiest places, you know, and he's
ghost prior for air traffic. And so they, they, uh, how far offshore? With 10 miles. 10 miles.
And it's that like maybe, uh, I forget, maybe it's like 18 or 19,000 feet, I can't remember.
Maybe 12 actually, for a while. But either way, you know, it's not like at 2,000 feet. It's,
you're not going to be seeing Cessna's up there very often. Either way,
they were flying in that formation and at, right at the entry point, one of these objects went
right between their aircraft, um, closer towards the lead side. Uh, the lead air crew saw the,
the air crew and the other aircraft did not, which is not surprising because you're so focused in
on flying formation. You're not, you don't have much of a scan going on. You're not taking in the
scenery. No, uh, but lead does and lead did see the object and they'll write down, uh, the lead
aircraft, lead pilot. And, um, and they, he just described it as a dark gray cube or black cube
inside a clear sphere. Um, that's, that's the description. And it went in between their aircraft,
but I'd be careful when I say that because we don't know whether it was moving or not necessarily.
All right. Um, I don't believe he had it on the radar. If he did, I don't think he would have
flown through it because we knew they were physical at this point. Um, I also just can't remember
whether he had a radar or not, but my assumption is he did not. Um, they ended up turning around
and coming home after that. Uh, they didn't trust their radar anymore, right? And they're going to
do a combat mission or not combat mission, but you know, like a dog fighting training set,
something that requires a radar. So if you're not even seeing objects and almost hitting them,
it's time to come home. Right. Um, but he came back and you know, he would have all the gear on
the ready room and he was describing what he saw, just as I just described it. And
you know, he's just like, I almost hit one of those fucking things, you know, because we were
all very familiar. We didn't have a name for them or anything, but we all were aware of them
that they were potential safety issue. And you know, but no one had seen one with a naked eye
not yet, not until this point. So now, of course, now we're all like, well, this is getting weird,
right? Maybe there's some kind of weird drone thing or X, Y, or Z. I mean, he didn't describe
any propulsion. There's no obvious lifting services, but, but hey, that's, that's what he
saw. So we kind of thinking it was a drone at this point or something. So we, we submitted a safety
report, um, a hazard, hazard report, which is something you submit when there's a, a chance
of a mishap in the future. Like maybe you got lucky this time, but next time you might not be so
lucky. And this is a good example of that. And so we submitted out and, you know, we were thinking,
hey, maybe this is someone's classified drone program. Maybe this is, um, who knows what, but
maybe by submitting this report, uh, they'll get the message that, you know, they're stepping
out of their, their lane here and creating a safety hazard. Um, they, right? We, we assumed
it was some classified program at this point. Of course, nothing actually happened. Um,
I forget the total number of reports that are related to UAP off these coasts in that period
somewhere around eight or 10, I think. Um, so it wasn't just our squadron, it was other squadrons
that had this type of radar. Um, and you know, over the course of time, we weren't necessarily going
out and, you know, um, interviewing people or taking any type of datasets, but generally speaking,
whenever we talked to, whenever I talked to anyone on the East coast that was a pilot
that had that's sufficiently powerful enough radar and they had seen the objects,
they described it the same way. Cube and the sphere. Really? Which is very unique compared to
what commander Fravor talked about. He talked about like a tic-tac object. They didn't, it was
not even close to what you guys saw on the East coast. Yeah. I don't think there's going to be
just one answer for this whole thing. But so there's no, so if I can recall, commander Fravor
talks about sort of trying to chase this thing, right? He was trying to chase it and the thing
was mimicking him or mirroring, mirroring his movements. And then he talks about the thing
showing up at his cap point before he even knew where his cap point was. He knew where his cap
point was, I believe. He probably had it written down, but it's, he hadn't been there. Right.
From what I can deduce from what he said, he wasn't sure where, like he didn't even know where he
was going to be prior to where, like there was no way maybe the object knew where he was going to
be before he got there. It's kind of one of those things where you have like a bunch of
waypoints and you're like, I know I need to be at waypoint nine, but I have no idea where it
is. That's like, you know what I mean? So it's probably like that. Like when he took over, like,
hey, he's at your cap point, you know, it's like, oh, shit. The guy who, who saw it with his naked
eye and you guys were in the ready room and he was describing that. Who, who else was there and
what was like, could, like, could you read the room? Like, what, what did you take in from
the other people that were there and what were, was their reaction to it? Kind of had a similar
reaction to the look that everyone had on their faces when we watched the Gibbel video.
Wasn't the same people, but kind of had that like looking around with a dumb look on everyone's
face. Like, what the fuck? You know, I mean, the, you know, the commanding officer of squadron was
there, four or five lieutenants like myself, the duty officer who is always there. It's always
someone at the desk and he's the one on the radio with the planes, welcome back and, you know,
troubleshooting and stuff, dealing with the issues of the, of the day, which this was. And
yeah. And, you know, everyone's kind of like, you know, I was hit with those things and it's like,
well, what are we going to do now? You know, and the answer was to talk to the safety officer and,
and submit a hazard report. And eventually these, the hazard report, you know, of course didn't
change anything. It's more of a data collection mechanism than a proactive, you know, prevention
mechanism, aviation safety. Like I said, a lot of our procedures are in blood.
Right. But, yeah, so I forgot where I was going with that.
Did you ever see one of these things with your own eyes?
No, I didn't. I looked, what would happen is crazy. And I talked again,
when I didn't talk to people that had seen it, almost all the others had seen it,
but not physically seen it was, you know, on the radar or had tried to see it, but couldn't,
much like myself. And so what that looks like is, okay, we have something on a radar.
Maybe it's, you know, 20 miles away or some distance, not within visual range.
As you get closer, you start to pick it up on your FLIR, you dial, you know, dial in your
course and you're trying to have a 500 foot pass with it. All your sensors are slewed,
your radar is looking at it, your camera is looking at it, your weapon system cameras and,
and sensors that are on your weapon, individual weapons are now all looking at it. Right.
All that information is getting pumped into my helmet. And so when I look out, I can see a box
around where I should be looking. Right. And I look back at my radar. And yes,
I still have the object locked and it's right in front of me. And I look over at the FLIR.
And yes, I can still see the energy coming out of that piece of the sky, you know, very precisely.
Right. And, and then my sensors are telling me where to look. And we fly right by it within a
few feet and, or, you know, a few hundred feet. And just can't see that. And you don't see anything.
Yeah. But then it's still in the FLIR. What is going through your mind when you see it on
every single one of your instruments, but you can't see it with your bare eyes.
Yeah. Your naked eye.
You know, I don't know. We didn't, we didn't make anything of it in a sense. I mean,
you think it was like a something's fishy with the radar or something's wonky with the
mechanical instruments? No, at this point, it's, it's inconceivable to us that our radar and FLIR
and visuals would potentially be now not for everyone, right? Not, not everyone, but for the
cases that we did see objects to be able to fool all three of those is interesting. Now,
what you can do is you can say, okay, well, perhaps some were physical and some were not,
right? That's one way you could go down this. And bottom line is we just don't have the data for
that, right? To say whether every object represented a physical object or there were only some
physical objects and the others were, were not physical. We just don't have enough data to
kind of make that assumption. But when you're flying around out there, you have to make the
assumption that they're all physical. Right. And how long, how long did it take before people in
on the boat when you guys got back and did debriefs or went over how many of these reports were
there before things started to change? Well, or did any things ever change?
I don't know how many reports to where there were about, I think eight or so
hazard reports that were submitted to the Aviation Safety Center that were specifically
referencing objects that were, I don't want to say unexplainable, but not identified as drones
or anything else. Right. There's a lot of others that indicate it's a drone, but you know, what
else are you going to call it? Right. But I don't know how many because we weren't really tracking
it. Right. And so then what did change essentially to answer your question?
Eventually the Navy implemented a reporting process through the UAP task force where they were
mandating, I believe, naval aviators submit reports upon landing of any objects that
they witnessed. And it didn't go through the Naval Aviation Safety Reporting
method. It went, you know, to the UAP task force. And so that, that is what changed. I don't know
how many incidents to where before that, but the UAP task force report and now the ODI report
came out shows that it's happening quite often. You spoke about, I forget where, which podcast
it was, but you spoke about a moment when you were in the room and there was a senior officer,
like a head, like a top guy who was reviewing it. And then he looked at it and he like turned
around and walked away. What was that? So everything we've talked up to this point has been off the
east coast of Virginia Beach with no aircraft carrier involved. In 2015, we started to prepare
for our workups. Actually, it was 2014, but it was right at the chain of the year. But we left
essentially on the on aircraft carrier to essentially get ready for war. It's called the
workup cycle. We spent months on the boat and we basically do all that training from the boat,
just the practice like we play. And while we were off the coast of Jacksonville, Florida,
that's when we filmed the gimbal video that people are familiar with. And so yeah, it's pretty
intense. And there's actually bases on the coast where they have called Red Air, contract Red Air
essentially where they come out and test us, right? So they'll, they unite, they'll come out and fly
out and try to like penetration test the carrier, right? Well, we're doing missions. We might be on
like a training mission and then we might need to break off of that because we're going to intercept
some other Red Air fighters that have been launched off the coast to test whether
we can intercept them before they get within weapons range of the boat or things of that
nature, right? It's kind of, I mean, in one sense, it's awesome fun, right? I mean, you're out there
sipping around, intercepting aircraft as they try to, you know, break their way into the carrier.
So it's kind of like, where are these guys coming from? Various bases off the east coast near
Jacksville and I forget where they're, where they are, but, you know, they just buzz right out there
and they're essentially targets for us. And we do that for our air to air training as well.
But anyways, we were doing an air to air mission out there. This is actually, well,
interesting little tidbit, I'll get to that after. No, please. Right after I tell the gimbal story,
I'll tell you this little piece so that doesn't get talked about much. But
yeah, we'd going out doing an air to air mission, the air crew that filmed the gimbal,
essentially started coming back to the boat after they had run out of gas or waiting the land.
You don't like just come back and land, you have to wait for the deck to open up.
And so what that means is you essentially have to just slow down and do what's called like a
maximum endurance profile, fly at a certain air speed that maximizes your time airborne
versus being an afterburner in a dogfight. That burns the least amount of fuel.
Yeah. So if you're in like some dogfight training mission, you're in the boat,
you're eventually going to hit a fuel number and you bring your throttle back and you essentially
just hang out. You're done being tactical at that point. And so that's, that's the position they were
in. They're coming back and they ended up seeing these radar contacts on their radar. And they
initially thought it was a penetration test, as I had talked about. So they went over to intercept
the aircraft and they were looking on the radar and all that. But the kind of mechanics of it
didn't really jive with what they would expect to see. It's too slow and performing turns that
they wouldn't expect to see. Long story short, they essentially went to stern convert the object,
which what that means is you essentially want to, if the object is just flying around, you're in
any position, you want to kind of arrive in a position like this. Okay. Stern convert. And so
what that really looks like in real life, usually you're like 10 miles apart. You make this big
arching turn kind of come in like that. Okay. And so generally that's what they were doing
as they were trying to get closer to the objects.
What they saw, well, what they saw on the radar was one object and then nearby were about five
other objects that were flying in like a wedge formation. And so the wedge essentially proceeded
along more or less a straight line and then kind of got jumbled up and did a very tight turn,
essentially, and started proceeding in the opposite direction. These objects that are in formation
is my assumption that they were the object we were seeing off the east coast on a regular basis.
And I say that because they appeared on the radar similarly as what we were seeing on the east coast.
There are ways that we could identify it, such as the way the objects kind of like skipped around
a bit with what we were seeing on the radar. It wasn't like a perfectly clear radar representation.
It would kind of skip around as if it couldn't really tell exactly which direction it was going,
even though it was showing it moving in a consistent manner, which is confusing. But
that's how we were able to identify them on the radar. And these look similar.
All right. So it's an assumption that they were the same. However, the gimbal object we had not
seen before, that was kind of located below the objects, I'll say, or maybe to the south,
if we assume up as north, but they're kind of like below the wedge and are falling in the same
direction just slightly behind. And when the wedge made that term and rolled out in the opposite
direction back in formation, the gimbal object just kind of went, it's just kind of going in one
direction and appeared from a God's eye view that it just started going in the other direction with
no radius of turn. That gimbal video was from a God's eye view? No. Okay. But what I saw on the
situational awareness page, you hear the pilot referencing, that's a God's eye view. And so,
that screen, typically between our legs, we have one screen here. Okay. Screen here, screen here.
Typically, we keep the SA page down here, and then we'll have our radar here, or our FLIR,
and a different type of radar over here. And so the SA page takes all of our sensors and has a
fused image. It's a God's eye view 360 degrees around our aircraft, aircraft in the middle. Oh,
wow. With map color maps and all this stuff, right? So like, that's like kind of like the
conglomerator of all the data. Right. Okay. That makes sense. And that's a God's eye view. So the
object, you know, you have the things here, and then the other, the gimbal down here,
these turn, and then this just kind of, with no radius of turn, just start going in the other
direction from a God's eye view. What that turned out to be, it seems, upon further analysis, was
that the object did with a vertical turn, essentially like a vertical J hook. Whereas,
if you're looking from a God's eye view... So, like that? Yeah. Very tight, though, in like,
few hundred feet, to reverse direction. Which is not something you see a fighter jet do.
No, certainly not. It takes almost a mile for a fighter jet to turn. Wow. But, you know, I don't
think this was fighter jet size, per se. It was smaller. And I say that because our velocity vector,
which is in the HUD, but also gets transcribed onto the FLIR, that's set to a size. And we can set
that in our jet so that if we're in a dogfight, and the wings of the aircraft in front of us in
our HUD are equal to the size of that velocity vector, it gives us a rough estimate of the
distance of the aircraft. And so, if I look at that velocity vector, and we're 10 miles away,
and that object is half the size of that velocity vector, it gives me a rough estimate of the size.
Okay. And I don't know what they necessarily had it set to. So, I can't necessarily make a judgment
on the size. However, if it was set to standard, just, I don't have a number, but looking at it,
it would be smaller than an F-18 based on its relative size to the velocity vector.
Smaller than an F-18. How long is an F-18? Oh, shit. Put me on that.
That's like 30 feet. That's something you should know, right?
Yeah, 30 feet. 35 feet. I don't like that.
35 feet long in the wingspan, roughly, 28. We're gonna have to cut this part because I'm probably
wrong, but yeah, it's been so long. Maybe you can find that. We fried ourselves. Okay, there we go.
Look at this. That doesn't affect us in combat. 56 feet. Wow.
I know. That's the Hornet. So, the Super Hornet is quite the size.
Not necessarily length, but it's a big aircraft. 60 feet. That was way wrong.
Whoa. So, that's what you were flying. The Super Hornet.
It looks the same, but it's 33% larger overall. Carry
different engines and electronics and all that. Carry lots of weapons.
Mm-hmm. Wow. That's incredible, man.
So, you know, so, yeah, anyways, we...
Look at that one. Look at all the bombs on the bottom of that one.
The one in the middle. Yeah, right there. Geez, that thing is loaded.
Argum ER. What?
It's Argum ER. Oh, okay.
Advanced anti-radiation guided missile. Extra range.
Argum ER. So, that is something that you would shoot...
And that's actually not an F-18 right there. Oh, it's not.
No, that is actually a Growler. A Growler.
Yeah. And actually, well, I tell you what, that's actually probably a test one.
What is the sickest jet that exists? Oh, man. I hate this question.
I'm partial to the F-35 because it's just the right aircraft for the digital
environment that they need to operate in. You know, we talked about flying and operating
a weapon. That's a 36. Yeah, I don't think a 36 exists.
Okay, this is a 35. Yeah. I mean, the F-22 is a great jet as well. I mean, the F-22...
Wow, that thing looks pretty cool. It's like very stealth looking.
It is a stealth aircraft. It's a Gen 5 stealth aircraft that's designed for penetration.
Okay. Like basically every fifth generation fighter is nowadays. That has pluses and minuses.
For example, the F-22, fantastic aircraft. Lots of thrust, ability to operate high and fast,
all the good stuff, and it's stealthy, and all its weapons are carried internally.
But that also means the sensors on those weapons can't look out either.
And so... What does that mean? The sensors on the weapons can't look out?
So you build weapons, say there's one called the AIM-9X, which is an IR-seeking missile,
which we use to employ it in close range. It could also be used for,
let's consider, high off-bore sight shots. And that sensor needs to be able to kind of
almost look behind you in a sense to like find that guy. And if your weapons are loaded internally
to your bay, it doesn't have the ability to do that. Right? And so there's some interesting
problems. I know they worked through them at this point, to some degree, so that those aren't as
much of an issue. But no fighter is perfect is the point. And they're built for different things.
The F-22 is no different. And the F-35 is no different. Both very different aircraft,
but both applicable in the modern warfare. Yeah. You know, it's funny. Isn't it true that when
that first, I forget the name of it, but the first, that big triangular black stealth bomber
came out, there was, I think the government was going along with stories that it was UFO.
They were trying to like, they were trying to like push the fact that it was a conspiracy,
because they hadn't officially announced it yet. But yeah, so this is the gimbal video, right?
So this is the object we were seeing next to the five other objects.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead and roll it.
These are friends of yours.
It was so weird when I was, I'll tell you what I said.
Yeah. One of them was in my wedding party. Really? I won't say which one, but one of
them I spent most of my career with. We went through training together in the fleet replacement
squadron. We were first met. So we were like in a five person class together. We trained together,
and he ended up going to the boat with me. He was like my WIZO, not my WIZO, but
he was the WIZO in the back seat when we went to do our night landing for the very first time.
Oh, really? And it was her first time landing on a boat because the WIZO's don't do that until
later, but the pilots get day traps when they're in the advanced strike fighter training.
So the wait with the WIZO, they don't, they don't do the landing though, right?
They don't, but it's still like, this is like now they're like with another student, right? And
this might, the student's first time landing on a boat and now he's in the back seat. You know what
I mean? So it's kind of like this big trust thing in a way. It's really, it's like, all right,
saddle up. You know, here's a guy who's never been to a boat before. He's doing it by himself
and you're sitting in the back. Oh my God. Right? So I imagine it's a little nerve wracking. They don't
have a stick. I mean, they're not pilots. Right. They're just holding their breath. Yeah. So we did
we did this together and it was an interesting story. Hey, I know that guy.
We're those two guys. Yeah. But so we were going to do our first night trap together and the way
we do that is we hold way back behind the boat up high and we actually, when our time plus or
minus three seconds of our push time, we have to be at a particular point in the sky. So as we
hit that, a certain air speed, we go down eight degrees, nose down, 250 knots, which is pretty
aggressive. That's like, I'm pretty sure that's aerobatic flight in a Cessna, theoretically, but
in fact, it's no big deal. We're coming down and then at about 5,000 feet, we arrest our descent
from eight degrees, nose down to four degrees, nose down because there's something called the
minute deliverable. If we're, if we're descending at that eight degrees, nose down, our rate of
descent is greater than how much altitude we have left in one minute if we were to continue doing
that. So like, you're going to die in one minute if you don't, you know, change something here. So
that's why we, we bring it up a little bit. So what happened was as we were kind of approaching
that altitude where we start to roll out, we're down eight degrees, everything's steady. That's
all good. As soon as we start pulling, essentially, our mission computers inside the jet fail and
they started resetting. So what that led to was all of our displays going blank and resetting.
So not only, now this is night landing. So there are no external lights. I have no navigation.
The jet's still flyable. I just can't see where I am. And this is just as I start to pull up,
which means I've lost my equilibrium. All right. And so I'm pulling at one, one G,
which means it feels like I'm sitting in a chair, but I could be upside down. I could be sideways,
you know, I could be inverted about to the water, just feels like I'm sitting in my chair.
Right. It's no different. And that's what's so terrifying. And the mission computers reset,
we're pulling up, they come back and we find ourselves somewhere like this, you know,
and then they go out again. So now I'm like, fuck me. And I'm like, I'm like,
I'm not like waiting from the reset. Now I'm like looking for my flashlight, you know,
so like, I can at least like turn it on and shine it at my backup instruments.
Because there was no like real lights on those. And so I'm trying to do that while I'm fiddling
with that, essentially trying to like somehow keep the plane upright, because there's like a
layer overcast layer at 8,000 feet, which means there's zero light. If there's just no moon and
just sunlight, that's cool. Like you can see the waves, you can see the ground. But when
there's an overcast like 8,000, might as well have your eyes closed. You just can't tell.
What is this?
What is it?
Night landing. Oh, this is a night landing. Yeah. I have a video just like this.
What are we even looking at right now? This is a tiny, it looks like, oh, oh, it's the aircraft
carrier. There it is. Wow. So that's, I mean, see how it's like black up there? That's what it
looks like if you have that overcast layer, you literally can't see anything. So you're basically
surrounded in blackness and you lost all your, it's like I just went blind. Everything went
gone and you pull out your flashlight in the cockpit and you're shining it on
trying to at this point. Yeah. I'm like trying to get it out because it's strapped right here
and I'm like, I'll just tilt it down, turn it on, and then it'll be like, I'm on the
foil. Meanwhile, you don't know if you're about to hit the water, hit the, where are you above
the water? You're above the, yeah. It's all ocean below us. We can't see it. Like I said,
because of that overcast layer. So yeah, it was just like, man, we, we, we ended up, you know,
the mission computers were rebooting again. They ended up rebooting and staying up that time.
We were somewhere like this, you know, kind of just floating there around like 3,500 feet or so
as we were kind of coming down like this, just slicing down like this more or less, you know.
Oh my God. So again, we had a minute. It takes about 10 or 15 seconds.
What is the protocol? If, what if your instruments don't come back online? What, what is the protocol?
What is the, what are you supposed to do? Go to my standby instruments.
Yeah. And then fly that back essentially. So, so at this point we declared an emergency.
We were probably about four mile, five miles from, we're like two miles from actually like
being on the pass, you know what I mean? Like being in that image where you like see the runway
and there's a lens over there. So we declared an emergency and that was the easiest landing.
I thought it was going to be very difficult and stressful, the land at the boat for the first
time. But as soon as I saw the landing lens in the runway, essentially the boat, I was like,
wow, you know, at least I won't hit the ground because I know where it is now. And so everything
else was just easy because I was just happy to be able to see, you know, see the ground essentially
if they went out again. Wow, that's terrifying, man. So anyway, we did that together. And then
we ended up going to the boat and I was, I was taught my class on the boat. They sent me priority
alpha, which means I was deployable to, or I was, I could be sent to a forward deployed squadron
just because my grades were high and then I did well enough. And so about two weeks after I finished
that training, I was sent out to the USS enterprise and I flew my first combat mission
a week after that. And the gentleman I was just talking about, he actually got assigned to the
same squadron. Oh, wow. So then we hung out for the next three years. We did specialized training
together. And then when I left, he left too. And he actually transitioned to be a pilot.
And so he actually ended up in Merdea, Mississippi when I was an instructor there as well.
No way. Yeah. So pretty much spent our whole career together.
That's incredible. So this, that gimbal video that we just watched, it was only 35 seconds long.
It was much longer than that though, right? I don't know if I want to say much longer,
but it was definitely more there. Yeah. Why are they only, why do we only get 30 seconds?
I don't know. I don't know. Do you have any speculation why?
I mean, you mentioned that there was like the wedge shaped formation. Was that a part of this
video? I never saw those on the FLIR. But what I did see them on was the SA page.
And that was primarily what I was looking on. And when I did look at the FLIR,
basically saw the same image that you saw, plus maybe a little bit more near the end
as a flight mechanic, seem to get rockier. So it kind of, it kept kind of doing that,
that motion that you see that kind of seemed unstable in a sense. But I don't want to
put words onto it until it comes out. Cause it has been like six years from me now,
since I've seen that video and it hasn't, you know, which one is this?
Just that more of the gimbal, essentially the full version. Yeah. So correct me if I'm wrong,
but I, they believe Christopher Mellon was the one who sort of leaked these videos.
And as the reason they even came out in the first place back in,
what was the year that first came out in the New York times?
It was 2017. 2017. That's when it was. Yeah.
And, you know, he talked about in James Fox's documentary, the phenomenon, how there's much
more, there's, these videos are much longer than they're yet to release the full videos for whatever
reason. Do you have any speculation of why they wouldn't release the full videos?
Well, I think it depends on your definition. So full video, the full video has radar data,
right? So the FLIR and the radar and the situational awareness page are recorded at the
same time, not necessarily those two pages, but the screens that they're displayed on.
And so if you have one, you have the other. And so what that means is the situational
awareness page with all the radar data, you know, it did exist. I don't know if it still does exist,
but you know, that's where you'd want, that's what you'd want to see because it has all the
radar, the kinematics, and it's going to show it over the entire course of when they were detectable,
whether they were directly looking at it or not. So there's much more data to be had even outside
of just the video. What is your buddy, the guy who actually filmed this, the guy who was in your
wedding party? Would you guys talk about this often or? Not really. I mean, he's still in,
he's deployed a lot, he's very busy, so he just heads down. But no, not really. I'm eager to
engage with him when the time's right. You know, I know this isn't the time to be distracting
and stuff like this. And I'm sure he's already has enough of it from the people inside. It's no
secret, you know, like who he is within the military, just based off the uniqueness of his
response to the video. Is that, you think the reason that he hasn't gone public about it is
because he's still in there and he just doesn't want to, he doesn't want the attention or?
Not even attention. Legally, he's not allowed to speak. Legally, he's not allowed to.
Do you see any other military people just kind of talking about it? Yeah, I was almost arrested
for that. Really? Yeah, that's what I've been told. So when I did that, I was, you know, I
communicated to the best extent I could that I was just communicating as a
private citizen about experiences I had. The night before I left to go to DC, I got a call
at like 10 p.m. Saying that I now had orders to be there. I need to be there, my uniform,
my whites essentially. And I need to go to the Pentagon before I went to Congress in the Senate.
Which was not a great revelation. But so I was scrambling, right? Like I was months away from
getting out, my uniforms packed up and like shipped across the country at this point. It was like my
dress white, you know, it wasn't affecting the wear in case there was someone died or something
really. Right. So I'm like going around my buddy's houses at like midnight, borrowing their uniforms
and their, their stuff so I could, you know, show up. Like my flight was at like six and
more the next day, you know, like, so it was a bit of a scramble. I ended up going to the Pentagon
into the bowels with some naval intelligence folks, some who we might be more familiar with
nowadays since the public hearings. Who? I'm so bad with names. But we had a conversation about,
you know, my, our experiences. It was nothing to ferry as necessarily. It was more, I think,
wanting to hear from the horse's mouth before him. I got quite entourage from there over to,
to the Senate. There was representatives from the, you know, numerous admirals from the Navy and
the Pentagon that accompanied me to the, to that meeting, which included representatives from the
executive branch, Pentagon Senate elsewhere. And essentially me at a table like this with, you
know, pending on folks on one side and senators and whatnot and their staffers over here and
me at the head of the table. How old are you at this point?
God, that's a good question. How old am I now? That's a great question. I was probably
27, 28. Wow. Yeah, maybe a little bit older. And what, what, what was that like? What was the
conversation like? What do they seem, what did they seem interested in? Like what, what did you sense
the priority was there with them? They seemed to just want to understand what they were seeing. So
from the Pentagon side, it seemed like they're just, you know, they had some understanding that
there was a problem in this regard, but it was classified. We weren't really able to have too
much of open conversation about it in that environment. I would say things senators would
ask me questions and they asked the DOD folks, what do you have to, you know, do you have any
comment on that? And the answer would either yes, no, or we'll talk about it in a, you know,
under a higher classification essentially. And so they were, they didn't have a lot to add to
that conversation on the, on the Pentagon side, but it was clear that the folks on the Senate side
were, were intrigued and were interested and were, they would seem to be asking the right
questions. Of course, at the time, I didn't know where it was going to go. I, I, you know, said my
piece and then just headed back essentially. It was maybe, you know, an hour, maybe conversation,
I think. What was, what were you afraid was going to, were you afraid that something was
going to happen? They were going to get fired or something? Yeah, that are 11 worth, I suppose,
but you can't really get fired from the military per se. I mean, you kind of a little bit, but
I don't think that was the fear, but anyways, I was, what do they say? Like, like, so I was kind
of, I was like ignorant of all this kind of drama going on in the background. Right. After
later that night, I got a call from someone who was in the, in the, in the meeting that we had on
the Hill. Okay. Inquiring whether the, the Pentagon hadn't intimidated me or whether they had asked,
you know, tried to influence my story or anything of that nature. So there seemed to be, you know,
somewhat of a distrust between those two. Wow. That's, that's very interesting. And what I
communicated was that, that was not the case. I did not perceive that. Well, maybe a little bit.
Well, I imagine that's got to be an intimidating situation for a 27 year old to be
called up there the next day and sitting down in front of all these people.
Especially disgusting thing. I mean, that it was classified stuff, right? So, so it was not,
it was not classified. It was not classified because it wasn't, it wasn't happening,
right? Like, there's wasn't a thing. And what gave you, what, what made you think that you were
almost going to be arrested? What indication did you have of that? Did they make that clear? The
person that ended up being responsible for giving me the orders came up to me and told me they did
that. So I would not be arrested. That's how I know that. Wow, man. Well, that explains why no
one else is speaking out about it then. Again, I wouldn't expect, yeah, I would not expect military
members to publicly speak to the press about this. That is, I would suggest out of bounds,
especially now that there is action going on, right? There is a proper way to alleviate this
through the system. I didn't have that luxury at the time. Now that I don't have the luxury,
people didn't even think this was a real thing. And so I made a decision I made so that we could
prevent someone from getting into a mishap preemptively instead of it happening and then us
writing our PCL and blood again. When was the first time you ever spoke to Commander Fravor
about this stuff? I spoke to Commander Fravor the first time I interviewed with the History
Channel for the show Unidentified. Not the first time, the only time I did. They introduced me
to Dave prior, and then he was there as well. I think they were kind of using it as a kind of a
comfort thing for me to show that there was someone else. And I actually had recognized Dave
because I hadn't known him personally at all, but he was in a show called Carrier, which is kind of
like a documentary of Squadron, and he was the commanding officer of the Squadron at the time
Dave was. So I had seen him actually before I was even a pilot on that show. So it was funny to
you know, I'm popular. We're friends now. We talk a lot now, but yeah, that was the first time I met him.
I know the objects were very different and the stories are very different, but were there,
what was the biggest thing that stuck out to you talking to him?
I don't know, it was the biggest thing, but the thing that kind of seemed similar was just kind
of how what the reaction was, right? How it was just completely laughed off and ignored and trivialized,
which always pissed me off. Not because, I mean, I, you know, we all joke and it's fun. That's all good,
but you know, this is directly something that we train for and have a lot of respect for,
which is not only aviation safety hazards in the sky, but tactical threats as well.
We're very well aware that other nations are spying on us, you know, at various times we're
flying out there and this could very easily be an extension in some cases, or it could be leveraged
to be a vulnerability for us if a foreign nation wanted to do so. And so from my perspective,
I just wasn't, I don't approve of the mocking from that angle because this is exactly what
we're trained to do. A friend of mine, James Fox, he produced the movie The Phenomenon. I'm sure
you're familiar with it. I don't know if you are or not, but he was worked close with Dr. Jacques
Vallet, who was one of the, I don't know how close you pay attention. I don't know how close you
pay attention to like the history of UFO sightings and the whole, and the different documentaries
that have come out about it. I know Commander-Favorite doesn't. I know he's not a very interested in
UFOs in general, but James is a big name in like the UFO community as far as investigating the
different events that have happened throughout history of the United States and around the world.
But when he was making that movie, The Phenomenon, he told me before he went to interview Commander
-Favorite for the first time, he was working close with Dr. Jacques Vallet, and he asked him if he
had any sort of, you know, can you give me any sort of guidance to how I can approach this guy?
And Jacques Vallet, his question was, I'm very interested in the possibility of them seeing it,
if they ever saw it with the naked eye or not, or if this was only on radar, because his main
concern was holograms in the sky. So, and when he brought this up to Commander-Favorite, he was
actually kind of like, he almost stopped the interview because of, he's like, how, how, you
think I'm an idiot? You think, you think I don't know what DARPA is? You think I know what holograms
are? You don't think I knew what I saw? He said, he was very like, not happy about that question.
But a lot of people speculate, especially on, depending on where you look online or wherever,
that a lot of these things could potentially be some sort of secret military technology
that is used to confuse enemy radar, like with different holograms or whatever it may be. I
don't know which part of the military would be responsible for this. I don't know if it'd be
the Navy or the Air Force or whatever. But are you familiar with this idea?
Yeah. What are your thoughts on it? In particular, I even had a guy on here that was a Harvard
professor that was contracted by DARPA. He was the one who brought this up to me in the first place.
And he claimed, he said to me that these sort of holograms that are designed to distract enemy
radar are a real thing. Something I've never heard of before. Yeah. Let me just kind of provide some
background on what DARPA actually does. I've worked with DARPA. It'd probably be mad at me,
but Dave's worked with DARPA. He works generally, well, I don't want to say anything more, but
DARPA is a very low technology readiness level organization. What that means is they work on
things that are very low TRL, call that TRL zero, where the other end of the spectrum would be
TRL or technology readiness level nine. And nine means that it's a capability that is deployable
for testing essentially with operators, right? Nine. And so DARPA usually works around the zero
to maybe like doing a little bit more like three or four TRL. So what that means is the technology
is not really proven. If it's a zero, it might be math equations. Okay. And so when people talk
about DARPA doing things, DARPA's MO isn't to build an operational technology and then test it for
years, right? That's not what they do. That would be post TRL nine, right? That would be
another organization would be the Navy, right? Because they would be the ones or perhaps another
organization. And I don't think there's a realm like NSA or CIA, like they could potentially
leverage that technology and take it in. So if we're talking about nemesis, which is what I
understand to be kind of generally speaking, kind of the holographic, EW, confusion type technology,
it would be the Navy testing it in our most active training ranges off these coasts.
That's what that would mean. It would mean that they were doing it for the better part of a decade
and still doing it. It would also mean that they're doing it over international waters,
which means any country can go out there and study it. And it would also mean that we're
not testing these things at our billion dollar ranges that we have out in the western U.S.
that are designed specifically for this type of activity, such as, you know, Navy China Lake
or any of these other testing facilities that we have.
Navy China Lake?
Yeah, it's a weapons testing place that a lot of test pilots go to in the Navy or other places.
It's where we develop weapons, essentially, and test them out. We get a new bomb, send it to China Lake,
strap on F-18 of the test pilot, and see what happens when you drop it, right? Like,
it's an operational test area. So we have places to test this type of stuff. So when people talk
about, you know, these programs like that, that's all well and good. There is a lot of
interesting technology that could be pieced together to provide examples of how something
could be feasible. But if you step away from that and look at the application and the implementation
of that technology, it starts to not make as much sense, right? Why would we be testing this for
seven, eight, nine years after it's been public in international waters off the coast,
especially when there's safety reports? Now,
why would we be testing it for eight to 10 years
in international waters? Like you're saying that we wouldn't typically do it for that long?
No. I mean, that's a whole cycle of development. You know what I mean? Like 10 years is a long
time to be testing a particular piece of technology in a public yet hidden manner. You know what I
mean? Right. So maybe this doesn't, this doesn't like directly refute what you're saying. I understand
that, but I'm just kind of providing some context around kind of these systems and why
I think, I think what you said about DARPA is very, I think what you said about DARPA is very
interesting and a lot of people could, could gain some context from that. So, so you said you guys,
you worked with DARPA. Why would a Navy pilot work with DARPA and, and what exactly is DARPA?
Navy pilot, yeah. So a Navy pilot did it, but when I was working at BA Systems as a
technology development manager, that was my job was essentially to source or create or IDA on
technology that would be relevant to the warfighter in 10 to 15 years that I could essentially pitch
to DARPA and we'd build it. And so primarily what I was doing when I was at BA Systems was
automating my job as a fighter pilot. I was working on multi-agent intelligences, right,
so autonomous wingman, forward edge tactical systems such as tactics on weapons or aircraft
related to autonomous systems, the reality of what hypersonic weapons and tactics look like. So
this is all areas I was working in. Wow. So, and what specifically does DARPA do?
What does it, what does it stand for? DARPA is a Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, okay. So their charge is to work on technologies
that are highly risky, that could fail. They expect a lot of their projects to fail. In fact,
they call it DARPA hard projects. Like, if you bring a project that's not hard enough,
they'll just tell you no, right? They would prefer to see something that has a lower probability
of success but a greater reward if it's successful. Okay. And so that's kind of the regime that they
work in. And they work close with these quote-unquote think tanks, correct? Is that? I don't know if
that's the case or not. I mean, what is a think tank? I don't know. I mean, I'm sure I think
sounds cool. Yeah. I mean, I think tank could potentially just be a group of smart people
that bid on a contract for that DARPA's boot out and they have the specialty to win that contract.
But DARPA typically works with big defense corporations but also with the startup community
in some sense. The intelligence community essentially has its own version of DARPA
that is specific for intelligence type operations. DARPA is more military. Yeah, that's what they do.
So are you aware of anything? Is there any sort of technology that's utilized with the military
to confuse enemy radar like this though? Like, is there even? There are tons of it. There's not
like this per se, but there's a ton of them. That falls under general category of electronic warfare.
Okay. Or even cyber warfare, you could consider it that. But that's, I mean, another branch,
essentially, that's being stood up at this point. Cyber command, having an understanding. The F-35
that I told you about is very much an electronic warfare aircraft. It soaks everything up. It can
jam. It can do all sorts of stuff. We start talking about, and it's not just us.
Everyone wants to see how we can fool the next, the first wave essentially, right? If we have
a World War III with anyone or whatever, there's going to be a lot of jamming and missiles are
going to be falling out of the sky and things of that nature. And one way to do that is with
fooling radars to make them think that there's something there when there's not.
I don't know why you would then take that and apply that to IR. I guess there are some reasons.
IR sensors are getting better for combat, I'll say. There's something called the IRST.
And that is essentially a IR targeting pod. The Russians have been using them for a while,
but we didn't quite use them that much because our radars were better. They were essentially
compensating for a lack of radar technology by having them. But we're getting IRST now as well.
And so really what that is is a different way of being able to target into these things
at range. Because if you think of the way Fravor talked about the tic-tac moving, it seemed like
he was basically describing a laser pointer, right? That's the way those things moved.
I'll give you a point at a wall. It was moving as if it didn't have mass. I think
it was a good way of describing it. Light does not really have mass. So
a shadow or something that was nonmassive could move as if it doesn't have mass,
if it wasn't physically real. So it was nuts and bolts, but it was also
psychic, if you will, like knew where he was going to be, right?
Yeah. I mean, the object showed up at the cat point.
Is that, quote, that wouldn't be psychic. I know sort of the way these things are moving
doesn't necessarily jive with general relativity, right? Like these things could be using some sort of
some sort of propulsion that is gravity, like anti-gravity, or it's not necessarily
like a jazz, not shooting something out the back to move. It's somehow manipulating gravity
to move like that. I'll agree that we don't see them spitting stuff out the back, but
the mechanism that they are using, although gravity and spacetime metric engineering
is a potential option for that. There, I think, are others as well.
Really? Yeah. So, you know, there's, well, let me just say this.
Transportation really, at the end of the day, comes down to energy, right? If we, if you can
put enough energy into one piece, we have the math to build, you know, a warp drive or what have you,
engineer spacetime metric, warp spacetime, which therefore would be warping gravity and allow you
to potentially move super-eliminally. That's, you know, one fun theory. Mass reduction is,
you know, a technology that has been proposed. If you were able to reduce the mass of an object,
then moving it through there would be much more seamless. Reducing air friction. Is it warping
spacetime around it to avoid the friction, or is it somehow moving air particles around it,
right? We just don't know the answer to these questions. So, one of the things I'm doing is
trying to get the answers to those. And the way I'm doing it is through the American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, where I chair the UAP Integration and Outreach Committee.
It's about a 50-person large engineering organization under the AIAA, or AIAA as I call it,
which is a professional engineering organization with 30,000 plus members.
And we've built a team of fantastic, you know, industry engineers that are kind of coming out
of the woodwork to study this, kind of from an industry-first viewpoint. And one of the projects
that we have underway is to help define what some of the detection mechanisms could be for these
objects. And just like you said, is it affecting gravity, and how can we detect that? Is it using
some type of ionization and magnetohydrodynamics to move air around the vehicle? And if that's
the case, how can we detect that? And so, we're going to be promulgating a document to the engineering
industry on a yearly basis that updates the best-sensing phenomenologies and lessons learned,
and everything we know. So, the rest of the industry can start putting technology together
to expand our data sets. So, there's a lot of private aerospace companies that are working
on this, correct? That are basically sharing information and trying to work together to
put more data together to try to understand this? I don't have information on that. I thought I
read that that was part of AA, what is it, AAIA? Our group is made up of engineers and scientists
from all across the industry, from NASA, to various DoD, to industry, to startups. And so,
I wouldn't say necessarily any of those companies they represent. Actually, I would say they don't
represent the companies at all when they're there. But there are members of cross industry that are
very interested in this. Do you think it's possible that there is private aerospace companies,
contractors that have technology that they're not sharing with the mainstream academia?
Technology? Yeah, absolutely. 100%. Science? I don't know.
Like, anti-gravity. Do you think it's possible that there's some sort of private aerospace weapons
contractor, like whatever, for example, Boeing or Lockheed that has figured out anti-gravity and
that's not being shared with the public? I think it's possible. Because it would effectively,
it would be immune to FOIA requests, right? Because it's a private company.
That's a theory I've heard, or maybe it's not even a theory, maybe it's a fact. But
generally speaking, yeah, I think that is possible that our private defense industries and contractors
have technology that isn't promulgated and is classified. But it would be for them to be testing
it off the coast of... That's not a defense contractor. That would be a government program.
It would have to be, right? Yeah. Lockheed wouldn't just be out in those areas. That would have to be,
again, approved military tests, which means... Forgive me if this is an ignorant question.
I don't know anything about this stuff. So Lockheed wouldn't be able to get permission or
work with the military to do this kind of testing? I'm not saying it's impossible. I'm just saying
that's not the way things work on a regular basis. Right. They go to ranges all the time. I've been
to ranges in the defense industry to work on various technologies. But operational flight
training areas and flight operation areas are a totally different beast. You know what I mean?
That's a difference between... I don't even know what the difference... I don't even know the best
way to phrase it. But like I said, that entry area to a working area is one of the busiest places
of sky on the Eastern seaboard. Right? Right. So we're now... We're testing objects by booting
them directly at the entry point of that area at altitude after hazard reports have been submitted
for eight years. Right. I don't see the logic. I don't see how we could be testing against ourselves,
especially when we kind of zoom out and say, okay, where are we now in the world about this topic?
Do we really think that John Ratcliffe and President Obama are going out on a limb because
we're testing some EW on the East Coast? The conversation's got too large to support the
thesis that we're testing EW. Okay. You know what I mean? In my opinion, we've gone beyond that just
based off of how much conversation has been around us because we're just drawing more attention to
this. Right. You know what I mean? Right. And that's another kind of element you have to throw
into this whole thing, is if it was something we... Why would we be throwing all this attention?
Why would the U.S. government intentionally kind of like acknowledge this like this?
Why would the Pentagon acknowledge it so much? You always have to question their intentions
just based on history. Right? Speaking of history, one thing I often think of,
this isn't necessarily a leading question, but what lessons did we learn from the proliferation
of nuclear weapons? We created a nuclear weapon and others were trying to create it. Now we live
in a world that has nuclear weapons everywhere and it's a fear. If we developed a technology that had
the power of a nuclear weapon, perhaps even greater, what lessons would we have learned from
that proliferation and taken that and applied to this new technology? Yeah. Where would we have
blackened out the conversation, the engineering side, at the fundamental science side? I don't
know how to answer these questions, but I imagine we learned some lessons from that.
Yeah. I don't know, man. I feel like we were a species that has amnesia when it comes to this
kind of stuff. You know what really kind of like tipped me off to or made me start leaning in the
direction of it's, it could be human technology is that when the Pentagon started really acknowledging
it and putting out the New York Times dropping these articles and the Pentagon putting out more
and more information about it and declassifying these reports, but not showing the whole thing.
That's when I started to sort of go switch to maybe this isn't some sort of extraterrestrial
thing. Maybe this could very plausibly be something a foreign nation has or that we have that we're
just not getting the whole truth about it. I bet it's probably somewhere in the middle.
Somewhere in the middle as in like we took the technology that we found from somewhere off
earth and then we sort of like back engineered it or something. I think that'd be the safer bet
to make that assumption that it's very probable if this has been going on for a while that some
of what we're seeing is our own but generate but originate from something else and not to say alien
or whatever the flavor of other you like. But I think that's a very feasible consideration to
think that we've been trying to work in engineering this and some sightings could be contributed to
that. That's a reasonable statement. What do you think about Bob Lazar's story? How much credit
do you give that? Have you ever talked to him? No, personally, no.
I mean, it's interesting and like I told Joe, I want to believe it. It's interesting but I just
don't have any evidence other than the media that's been created to tell his story and that's
just not a sufficient for me to draw conclusion on my own. What do you think about the way he
describes the way he describes the the anti-gravity propulsion and being able to manipulate time?
That's something that you study, right? That's something that you're very much interested in.
That's grounded in good science. Anytime that you would create some type of
field that warps space-time around you, you would be by necessity warping time as well.
Any increase in gravity or concentration of it in some sense is going to cause time to slow down
the more dense and the stronger the gravity is. I don't know if that supports his story
necessarily. That's something we've known for a long time, 20 years or so, but it is consistent
with, I think, special relativity or general relativity. Being a pilot and experiencing
everything you've experienced and just being immersed in this war technology, which is incredible.
What do you see as the future of war and technology developing together and what does that look like?
Does it look like some of these objects you think eventually in the future this is just like
there's no more pilots and fighter jets? What do you think it looks like?
Yeah, I think that's where we're going. I think the direction we're going is,
you could call it like an objective-based autonomy in a sense. A mission commander who
might be an F-35 or eventually maybe back on the boat or elsewhere will likely assign
mission objectives that need to be accomplished to a swarm of assets that the pilot doesn't
necessarily know what they are. He doesn't know where they are, he doesn't know what weapons they
carry, he doesn't even know what they look like potentially. I'm moving around.
You're good.
But he verifies the target and validates it and issues the commands and then the target is
prosecuted with those assets that the autonomy has suggested we're going to use this and this
and this to create those effects first, taking one jet with a bunch of different weapons and saying,
okay try to make those effects work with what you happen. There's more of almost like a cloud
concept to warfare and the mission commander is making those decisions and so I see autonomy
playing a massive role in that and what that's going to lead to is more congested battle space,
right, which is kind of what all this kind of talk about EW is all about, right, is about
congesting the battle space and making it more difficult to target and making it so the pilots
don't know if the radar contact they just shot at is a real aircraft or not or if they just wasted
missile, right. You can, wasting missiles is great, you only have so many of them, so you can have
the enemy shoot at drones or at false tracks on the radar then you're going to win that fight
eventually. What this could lead to is a reemergence of dogfighting as a valuable skill,
right, so our fights actually take place over such long distances. If it is a true, you know,
war type scenario where missions need to be accomplished, eventually you're going to have
to go in and increase your risk if all your long range weapons are gone, right, or if they've been
trashed through EW. So what that means is getting closer and using your guns and iron missiles at
a dogfight. Oh, wow. And so there is a potential should things get bad to actually kind of reinvigorate
the dogfighting regime if they'll likely be a transitioning period where there are still pilots
where if that has passed then it'll just be all, you know, autonomous stuff fighting each other.
But before that you could have a chance where the EW is so good that everyone's trying to
employ their weapons, they get trashed, you have to go and close. So if that's the case,
well, I'm going to that, but so, you know, what does it look like? It looks like congestion,
right? It looks like a fog of war. It's more confusing, there's more uncertainty,
there's more wasted assets, there's more ability to be clever and tricky perhaps.
There's a weird thing that happens. I've had a guy, I had a guy on here who was a drone pilot.
He was working at a base in Las Vegas and he was operating drones and pulling the trigger and
killing people on the ground. I forget in what country, but there's a thing that happens,
there's a disconnect between people who are doing that across the world operating some drone like
a video game and then someone who's actually flying a plane and like being there in person.
And, you know, I just wonder like the psychology of if that's what war comes to, people being
across the world just like hitting buttons on a controller versus being there in real life,
like what are the long-term implications of that and how does that affect the world?
I think the long-term implications is that it could probably get to a new
deterrent system similar to nuclear weapons in a sense, right? If you have confidence in your
ability to be successful without risking lives or making it politically tricky, then it might be
more likely in order to engage in those type of skirmishes. That would be the fear in a sense.
It's like life becomes more disposable. Yeah. In a sense, though, the technology,
I've argued for this. In fact, you know, when I was at BA Systems, we had some interns come in
and, you know, one of them actually, you know, took the opportunity to ask, you know,
how do you justify this type of work, you know, creating weapons and things of that nature at
this point. And as someone has, you know, been out there employing these weapons, it was easy for
me to answer because accuracy enables safer warfare if you have a moral government in a sense,
right? If your government doesn't want to kill civilians, being more precise
is better. And that's what I said. As long as we assume we have moral leadership,
then we would want our weapons to be as essentially powerful and as accurate as possible
as a mitigating force. And so, yeah, I think that's where we go. Things will continue to get
more accurate and more precise, which may have negative consequences because people may feel
more justified using them. So I think you're the perfect person to ask this question. What
is hypersonic? I hear about it all the time. I hear about missiles being hypersonic, especially
when it comes to this war in Ukraine and Russia and Russia having these hypersonic missiles.
What is that? What does that mean? Yeah. Is it the same thing as like Mach levels,
like Mach 1 through 10? Yep. Okay. Mach, everything below Mach 5 is just supersonic,
they call it. Above Mach 5 is hypersonic. Okay. So hypersonic, I forget what the barrier is,
but there's also a thermal barrier that you need to get through to go certain speeds. You can't
just continuously go faster if you're a more powerful engine because you're going to start to
melt stuff, right? So there's kind of a thermal barrier that's related to our material science
and engineering level. But generally, it is what it sounds like. Things are just going a lot faster.
What does that mean? War is not that complicated at the end of the day. You just need to do the
simple thing better than the other person in a way. When we have these ICBMs and cruise missiles and
all these things like that, the most important consideration is how long can I intercept that
missile for? When is it visible to me? It's visible when it's on my radar. So if there's
curvature of the earth, depending on where the missile is launched, we put radar sites in
various places so we can see the missile sooner, right? We put them in space so we can see them
as soon as they launch perhaps, right? Hypersonic missiles reduce the time that you can see the
missiles because they're traveling so fast that they can go at altitudes that prevent
radars from seeing them due to the curvature of the earth in some cases. And then it also decreases
the time to intercept that missile. And so, for example, if Russia had a hypersonic missile
that could just travel over to the US, that could pose a significant issue because our
systems might not be calibrated to be able to hit hypersonic missiles, maybe only supersonic
missiles, right? So it's just a stair step, just like everything in war seems something fast.
You find out a way to take it out. Let's speed it up so those other systems don't work anymore.
Are there any sort of missiles that can just change direction on a dime?
Well, no. No. No. There's some interesting stuff you could do if you had like a throttle
missile, but that's not what you're describing, instantaneous movement or anything like that.
Even if we had a missile, so where these missiles work is that you lock up your shoot
and they'll go near the object. And once they get within a certain range, they'll save
some energy so they can perform what they call like a Max-G maneuver at the very end
in order to trade all their energy to get close enough to impact the aircraft with shrapnel.
And so when they do that, they might pull like 70 or 80 Gs, which is a lot, but compared to an
injection where the first few milliseconds is like 300 Gs. 300 Gs? Yeah, for like a millisecond.
No other reason you can, and then it backs off to like 12 Gs, but it just kicks off very fast.
The only reason that's survivable is just due to the inertia of your body and the blood.
Wow. And yeah, so 300, boom, and then it slows down.
Yeah, sorry, I forgot where we're going with that though.
Yeah, we were just talking about like the way the missiles travel and how fast they travel,
and then you got to ejecting at 300 Gs. Yeah, but when you start talking about
something like what David Fravor and moving positioned very fast, the Gs in there could
be in the thousands. That's the first thing I just thought about is if there was, if there was
actual, if there were actual like, like beings inside of those things, they would just be liquefied.
Potentially, if they, if they had mass and if they were operating with our normal spacetime frame,
right? So if you're bending spacetime, then you're going to be in your own isolated bucket and
you're not going to be feeling those inertia changes, right? Because gravity is a field,
right? So gravity is affecting the atom of your body all at the same time. It doesn't pull on your
head and then pulling here. It's a field that's pulling all in the same direction. So if you're
moving gravity, you're not going to be feeling that inertia changes. That's one way you could do
that. Another way is to reduce somehow the mass of the object so that it doesn't have as much
of effect from inertia. Right. And I don't have all the answers here. I'm just kind of just explaining
a couple potential options where you could see that minimum, you could see the, you could see
that movement and still survive. If we don't assume any of that and assume they're operating in our
normal environment without reducing mass or affecting spacetime, then yeah, the G-forces would
be probably, well, not probably, they would be too much even for hardware. Has anybody ever seen
one of these things manipulate the environment, like for example, punch through clouds or affect
the water at all or anything like that? Well, Dave Fravor talked about kind of the water being spun
underneath the tic-tac, but I'm not aware really, no, I'm not really aware of any cases like you
described. Well, yeah, what did he say about how the thing was like hovering right above the water
and there was just sort of like white water below him or? Yeah, I think they kind of described it
as like foaming or bubbly in a sense. Because that's another huge element of this is being
underwater. How much attention do you guys pay to being a Navy pilot? How much attention do
you guys pay to like things happening on the surface of the water or ever? Do you ever do?
Yeah, no, we do. We have particular radar modes for ships. Are submarines a threat?
Not to me. Not to aircrafts? Okay. Not that I'm aware of. Okay. But they're certainly, well,
if we're on an aircraft carrier, they are. If the submarine comes to the surface though,
could they be a threat? I honestly don't know enough about submarine weapons systems to tell
you. I hope not. But typically, we're not worried about submarines. But we don't really have the
capability to track objects in a trans-medium manner. So if we see something get close to the
ocean, we may have trouble tracking it depending on how close it gets, just do the movement of water
and all that stuff. And then if it goes below, it's just going to disappear off our radar. There's
no continuation. So we can't necessarily make that assessment of it going in the water. We just
see it and then we'll see it. Our radar, so it can see very far away. So almost 99.9% of the time,
what we're seeing on the radar is well beyond our visual range.
What is sort of happening currently within the government publicly or not that you're aware of
to sort of move this whole conversation forward and push it more into get it away from the
stigmatization that people are used to? Yeah. And we're seeing a lot of good work on that.
Within the AIAA, I mean, that's one of our primary missions is to mitigate
the stigma around this topic so that we can do real science on the topic. And we're seeing that
form up now. We're seeing the engineering skill sets and prowess come in that want to approach
this scientifically and agnostic. Within the government itself, we have the all-domain anomaly
resolution office or as I call it, AERO. It's a mouthful. Yeah. Not a bad idea. Yeah. Yeah, double
A. But there seems to be a very concerted effort to actually get to the bottom of this in my view.
Dr. Sean Kirkpatrick of AERO, I've heard him express that he believes he has all the access
that he needs in order to continue investigating this. I know that he's made trips at National
Archives and he's really putting the legwork into understanding this. So I believe that he
is truly working to uncover this to the best of his ability. And from my perspective, he's
getting the support he needs from the Senate and Congress in order to do that with the National
Defense Authorization Act that was signed by President Biden recently. What is that one? What
does that act? National Defense Authorization Act had somewhere around 30 pages of UAP-related
legislation in there that essentially forces a reckoning of any classified programs or manipulation
attempts on the public related to this topic going back all the way to 1945. Additionally,
removes whistleblower limitations for potential whistleblowers from $300,000 for liability to
unlimited. And that applies both for defense contractors as well as military folks as well.
And so really what we see is this is a mechanism for kind of opening it up and allowing Congress
and Senate to really run this to ground. Yeah. Oh, and by the way, the NDA also
has Arrow reporting, I believe, to the SECDEF or Deputy SECDEF now versus ODNI. And so the last
report that came out was an ODNI-based report. I would think going forward, there might be a
little more ease in communication now that there's been a transfer.
What, Dr. Sean Kirkpatrick, what is his background and what is his...
He's a former chief scientist at the, I think, the Missile Defense Agency,
U.S. So he's been, he's a well-established and published scientist that has been working for
the DOD in various capacities for quite some time.
Okay. How much attention do you pay to some of the other stories that are coming out? I mean,
obviously you, your background is very objective, is very science-based, very tactical.
But when it comes to like some of these other stories and some of these other things that
are coming out, like for example, like James Fox's latest documentaries,
how much attention do you pay to that kind of stuff? Or even like abduction stories.
Is that just too out there for you or do you pay attention to it?
I'm doing my homework to some degree. It's just, there's a lot out there.
I, you talk about the, I said, how do you pronounce it? Varginia?
Varginia.
Is that the one?
Yeah. Did you hear about that?
Yeah, I watched that. It was fascinating. I mean, it's interesting, but generally speaking,
it's not the way I kind of... So there's two ways I kind of approach this topic.
There's, one is, in a sense, it's almost due diligence where I am engaging in those types
of stories to some small degree. I mean, not small degree, but just through the literature.
I'm not actively investigating or like talking to...
The problem is it's so entertaining, right?
Yeah. It's, well, there's been a trend, I think, in the past where due to lack of data,
probably for one reason, that there has been an entertainment industry of sorts that has kind
of folded on around this. I don't see myself as necessarily participating in that.
And so, yeah, go back a second. I tried to do my homework to get a broad understanding of this,
but I'm very focused on the future as well. I think that there are real solutions that we
can bring forward in order to better understand this outside of the military leash, right?
I don't think the way to expand this conversation is to just wait for the government to essentially
provide us with the answers. We know we can see these things, right? We can see them on
certain radars. These radars aren't... They're classified, but the technology necessarily isn't.
You can find phaser-raiser radars out there. And the democratization and access to these
technologies, I think, are going to allow us to expand this conversation with or without the
government. And I think that maybe is why this time is so unique. The tools that you have access to
can provide answers that the government can't necessarily keep a leash on.
Yeah, man. But like the Virginia case is so interesting too, because a lot of the people
that were there that day, James says that they were just intimidated to the point where they
would not talk about it. Like the one guy, he literally chased them off, threatened to shoot
them and kill them if he didn't leave his property. Because the government intimidation,
they say these people, these quote-unquote men in black would come and basically tell them,
like, if you love your family, don't say a word about this to anyone. And then additionally,
to that, the so-and-so, the so-called being that was found, the Air Force, the United States
Air Force, all these United States planes landed the next day. And basically like hushed everyone
up and took all the evidence and went back to the United States. So like, it's almost like the
biggest barrier is at the same time, the government, even though the government is claiming to
put all these things out in the New York Times, the Pentagon wants to openly talk about it. It's
this is what we're doing on the public side. But on the other side, we're also doing all this
stuff with intimidation and all this stuff to keep people to shut up.
Yeah, I don't disagree. But I think one of the misconceptions is that the government is extremely
well run. So one, I think there are different factions. I think there's different people
within the government that are involved in this. And I don't necessarily think that they all work
together. The government is so big and there's so many people and personalities and interests.
It's not as monolithic as people make it out to seem. And the story you just described,
you know, it's interesting because, you know, what official channel of communication exists
between Brazil and the United States in order to facilitate something like that?
You know, that must be, it must be an ongoing relationship of some degree.
Well, the Brazil from what I understand really relies on the United States,
and they rely on having a good, really strong relationship with the United States.
I could be wrong, but. On UAP?
On anything, if they had something and so if you're Brazil, why would you want to keep that from the
U.S.? What's the U.S. you're studying, right? Like officially, the government wasn't really
studying this. So was there some communication between them? If there was some high level commander
or high like the like the head of the military in Brazil, do you think they have an open line
of communication to somebody here? No, they would have to go through political channels.
So, you know, I don't have any answer here, but like these are these are the things that
interest me. The case is very interesting, but what does that relationship tell us?
When did it start? Did it start then? Or did it start elsewhere? And if it started elsewhere,
why did it start there? What else do we know? You know, and so I don't, the case is fascinating.
I want to know more. I want it to be true, but these are the clues I try to look for to
help better understand, you know, really what's going on, you know. And it's so much different
than what you're seeing too, because there's, if that case was true, there was a biological
being inside of a craft that accidentally crashed. If these things are so advanced,
how the hell would it accidentally crash? And why would they travel so far and put a
a biological being that is of importance to whatever civilization it came from?
Why would they leave us? Why would it be strained? You know, it seems like they're so advanced that
that sort of thing wouldn't happen. I think there's some assumptions in there
that I'll push back on. Okay. One, a Lamborghini is incredibly advanced, you know, or even
you know, anything a Tesla, they still break. Now, even if you take that to the extreme scale,
is there, you know, 100% success rate? I don't know. That's just one poor argument against the
crashing, right? If you were to take one back to 3000 BC and drop someone a car,
they probably think it worked all the time too, but let's just put that aside. That's fair.
Let's put it aside for the most part and then talk about the assumption around a biological
entity having importance. I would imagine that technology would move into an area where you'd
be able to replicate biology artificially and that would be probably a much more efficient
means of reproduction of the asset or the modification of it and that the maintenance
of it versus say a heavy mechanical object. That's just an asset. I'm not saying that's
truth or anything, but I'm just saying we would be able to print like 3D print our bodies, right?
Just because something's biological doesn't mean that it's evolved over millions of years to be a
self-intelligent, self, you know, its own agent, agent, right? Intelligent agent. It's biological,
but does that mean it's not a robot in some sense? Right. I know that's an assumption I think.
So just because it's biological, maybe that's just, you know, the best means for doing the thing.
Right. Yeah. No, no, no, that doesn't make sense. And then, you know, that kind of like goes to the
idea that once we do advance to a certain level that we, you know, we, like our bottleneck right
now is our biological bodies decay and we age and we die. But if in a thousand years it seems
plausible that we would be able to, I mean, we're already doing it. We're already, we're already
cloning ourselves, we're cloning cells and basically like 3D printing skin, like burn victims can get
brand new skin. So why wouldn't we be able to eventually just create new meat vehicles that
we're in right now and just, and just basically take our consciousness and put it into a new one?
So essentially that if this was in a civilization that was that advanced,
they would be able to do something similar to that. Maybe there is no consciousness too.
Another assumption, you know, you potentially have a biological being that isn't necessarily a
conscious agent, perhaps. You know, I'm going to at least get rid of the consciousness transfer
that you mentioned. We can throw away that assumption. But these, you know, these are the
fun conversations. We're never going to like get to a conclusion on any of this. But it's interesting
because I try hard to not anthropomorphize this conversation too much. And it's so easy, right?
We assume it's a biological entity on there and so that has value to the society in some sense.
Maybe that's not the case, right? Exactly. That's what makes this conversation so difficult.
Right. The thing though that is, it is a very different situation, what happened there with
the thing crashing with something in it than what you, it seems like compared to what you guys were
seeing. I agree with that. You know, and then if you were to attribute something like a technology
that we have, like some sort of advanced military technology, then how do you explain all the things
that were happening in the 40s? All the different, you know, sightings and, you know, there's documented
cases of all these things hovering above nuclear bases in like the, you know, the early days,
I don't know what decade that was, 50s, 60s, 70s. You know, how plausible is it that we had that
technology back then? You know, what the hell was going on back then? Yeah, I don't have an
answer to that question. You know, but that is kind of the weird thing about this subject,
is it's so entertaining and it's so fun to talk about, but at the same time, that's at the same
time what makes it kind of like, what makes people be able to dismiss it so easily. You know,
because you have the history channel, but the history channel just makes stuff entertainment.
It's really entertainment. I don't know if you've ever watched a show on the history channel, like
some of these shows like Skinwalker Ranch, like a person like me who's familiar with like
production and how it works and watching this thing happen, it's just they're making a fucking
movie and they're trying to entertain people. Like for somebody who understands some of the stuff
that has actually happened in these situations and the research that's been done behind it
scientifically and then you watch it dramaticized on television, to me, kind of like doesn't do it
any favors. It makes it less credible to me, but I understand like it's fucking entertaining and
people want to see it and you can make money. Companies like the history channel and the discovery
channel, they make tons of money because it is entertaining. And now with the conversations
that are happening with the New York Times and the Pentagon, now it's actually getting more and
more truth. So this stuff is becoming more and more of a financial opportunity for entertainment.
Yeah. I mean, generally speaking, I think more attention that goes on this, the more people,
for good reasons and bad reasons, will try to financially gain from it.
I do have one pushback, which is one thing I've seen a lot is that there seems to be this
almost gatekeeping around the topic, where if you're not doing it for the pure enjoyment of the
topic, then you're doing it for the wrong reasons. And I don't agree with that. This has been relegated
to a hobby for way too long. And a hobby is not a sustainable way of creating a new industry around
something that we're seeing out there that requires technology and investment and research and
people to commit to that research and write papers. And guess how that gets done? Money.
Yes. So, hey, eventually we got to grow up and start putting our money where our mouth is.
That doesn't mean necessarily entertainment, but hey, the government, they're not going to
buy sensors for the general public to figure this out. Well, NASA, I doubt it. I've had conversations
with members from NASA and people from Aero. And they both are pretty aligned around the fact
that the normal funding channels for this type of work, it doesn't really exist within DoD.
And they don't really exist within NASA. And we're seeing a little bit of a change. We're
seeing NASA put a little bit of money, $100,000, as they essentially build a program to study.
$100,000. Yeah. But the point is that they're not doing work with that. They're building a
recommendation for a program. And that's the output. They're going to be looking at the data
and various things and providing a recommendation on how NASA can actually gather data to bring
answers forward on this. And so that's when I think more money will come in and stuff.
And to go back to your point on entertainment and stuff, I think that's why a lot of pilots
haven't been willing to talk about this because it has been more in that UFO attainment type of
mindset. UFO attainment, good word. Yeah. And pilots don't want to risk their careers by going on
something like that and getting labeled as a believer or something like that, right? It's,
I think, a little derogatory to kind of label these pilots that have witnessed things, believers,
in a sense, because a lot of these people have seen some very inexplicable things with their own
eyeballs with multiple aircraft and multiple aircrew, like their first officer and multiple other
professional aviators. And they're seeing things that have changed their lives. Right. You know,
that have, they've gone out and talked to artists to do drawings of what they've seen and they've
kept in touch with the pilots they've seen this with. And so to take those emotional experiences
in some cases and take it on to a UFO type attainment thing, it's just, no, they're not going to go
anywhere near it. They will, they will potentially lose their job. And the way it works in airlines,
you can be at a company for 40 years. And if you leave that company and you go to another airline,
you go right to the bottom of the pile with 20 year olds, you know, that will be more senior to
you. It's very, it's all seniority based. So if you've been in and you have a long career and you
want to start talking about something like this, that's quite the risk to take. Yeah. And so,
you know, that's why I've created the podcast merge, because I want to provide a scientifically
focused neutral place for aviators, scientists and innovators to actually have a serious
conversation about this outside of entertainment. And it'll be more than just a podcast, because
we're going to be able to take that information. And we're going to be able to apply that within
the AI double A and have conversations about the technology and perhaps pursue that if someone
has a good idea and we have a conversation about it, we can go get things done. We don't just have
to talk about it. We have potentially the resources and the equipment and eventually the
equipment and the people and the minds to actually start to solve this. And so we want to try to
bring those together and have those conversations, both the pilots and the people that are going to
be able to figure it out. That's powerful. Having somebody like you being able to sit down on a
podcast and talk to some of your peers and some of the people that you respect or some of the people
that respect you in this industry and not have it be wrapped around entertainment. But I do
understand what you're saying. Like it is important to have an industry. There should be a big market
on this niche because that's how you fund things. That's true. The market should be,
no matter how it happens from the ground up, if it is with some of this outlandish entertainment,
I mean, that's the way naturally it has to evolve. That's the way that we're going to attract money
to the situation. That's the way people like you- It got me. Yeah, I knew there was something there
to talk about. But the document I talked about being able to release within the AI double A,
that's really what that's going to be centered around is being able to provide a broader understanding
throughout industry of the science and the sensing phenomenologies and things. So that technology
can be built. So they kind of answer your question. How do we get from there to where we want to be?
We're getting there. We've created scientific organizations. They have been created to actually
study this. What's going to happen from that? We're going to be putting out information and data
and conclusions and results, and that is going to go directly into developing new and better
technology that's going to help us understand this problem better. So we're there. We're getting
there. We're establishing that. When we look out in the wider scope of things, we see that
Arrow and others are taking a whole-of-government approach on this. This isn't one department,
one agency, one organization, one senator or congressman with a hobby. The whole of government
is kind of wrapping itself into this so that we can take that whole approach and make sure that
we're using all the resources we have as a nation to understand that. And that's what's
happening now, whether people see it or not. We're building the stage. We're setting the stage.
And I think this year, we're going to see a lot of activity on that stage.
How many episodes have you recorded of your podcast so far?
Four.
Four episodes. What kind of people have you had on there?
We had Professor Gary Nolan. We're going to be airing that episode tomorrow, actually.
Oh, wow.
And the rest, or the other three, were commercial and F-18 pilots.
That's amazing. And where is it on YouTube, or is it on Apple?
Yeah, you can merge point podcasts on YouTube. You can also find us on mergepodcast.com.
You'll be able to find all the episodes starting tomorrow on there. And of course, it'll be on
all...
Starting tomorrow.
Starting tomorrow.
Oh, wow. That's amazing.
Yeah, good timing.
This thing won't be released yet. We'll release this next Tuesday, whatever date that is.
Yeah, so we're going to, I think, then we're going to be airing about every two weeks now,
and then hopefully every week, with just constantly interviewing pilots, because there's
nothing out there, and they have their stories, and they've been seeing this for a long time.
And so we'll have that conversation. And at the same time, we'll be bringing in scientists.
And not just... I have a lot of respect for Gary Nolan, but he's pretty wrapped into this
conversation. But I want to bring in some people that aren't aware of, that have been in the
industry for 40-plus years, that have now volunteered to help at the AIAA that are really
tackling this. No entities. I'll say senior engineers and scientists from across the aerospace
industry are really getting around to put their might behind this in a public manner.
And so we're going to see a lot of progress, I think, this year and in the future.
Have you thought about what happens once, if and when this becomes just accepted public
knowledge, that if there is another civilization that is trying to communicate or traveling here
and monitoring us, and that is here with us, and we're not alone. If that does become
common knowledge and accepted knowledge within the world and all the main governments in the
world, have you thought about what the implications of that are? What are the public implications
and how does that affect wars and military? Yeah. I don't have the answer for that
entirely, but I will say that I know there are efforts underway to form
certain organizations that will study this from a more broad perspective like that.
Of course, within the AIAA, I'm focusing on science and engineering around this topic,
but I think we'll hear soon about some other efforts that consider the sociological implications
of this, that include the economic implications of this, the xenopolitical nature of this, but to
kind of get to... What does that mean, xenopolitical? External politics. We have to now consider
something other than ourselves in our relationship with how we interact in the world perhaps.
How do we retain our agency if we do exist among highly technologically capable societies?
I think that's really what it boils down to, if we do come to terms with this, is that how do we
maintain our dignity and our sovereignty in such an environment? I think truly we have...
I think that's what it boils down to really. How do we interface on perhaps a stage like that
as the weaker candidate, but with the self-respect that we should have in order to operate at that
level? These are the conversations and the questions I think that we'll be able to explore
in a more organized manner. Once we kind of get past this uncertainty phase, this...
It's very... There's so many more questions in there. That's gonna be the fun part. I can't wait.
I mean, it's scary. It's scary to think about what could happen, because obviously the human
mind goes to all the fear first. What could the worst... What would the worst-case scenario be if
the public knew that, okay, that we're not everything. There's other beings here. Would the
economy collapse? What would happen to religion? It's unfathomable. I think we will do okay. I
really do. I think that one of the reasons that perhaps this is an okay time for this is that
our society is measured in some sense right now by how fast we change, how fast our technology
advances, and we see it all the time. Our society and our social standards don't necessarily keep
up with the technology. Our technology is created, and then we try to find a way to
live with it in a sense. I don't think this is going to be much different in a sense. I think
as long as we can retain our agency and our self-respect in a manner like we were just talking
about, that we're going to be able to integrate that information, because really that's just...
That's how the modern person lives right now. Every year there's new technology and something
different. Not to mention the state of the world in some sense with COVID and everything else that's
been going on. I think people's comfort in reality has been shook a little bit by the event of the
past five to eight years. If you did want to introduce some drastically different knowledge,
I'd suggest that this would probably be a good time as a shock would be lessened.
Yeah. I am optimistic about it to an extent, just hearing some of the stories. It doesn't seem like
these things, if they are from a different civilization, are a threat to us. It doesn't seem
like they are here for that. They don't have any mal intentions, especially when you hear...
Some of the most fascinating things to me is how there's been a large number of sightings near
schools with young children seeing these things and reporting these things. I don't know if you're
familiar with the Zimbabwe, the Rua school in Zimbabwe back in the early 90s. There was something
that landed and there was like 30 or 40 school children that all witnessed the same exact thing.
And there was that famous Harvard psychiatrist who interviewed them all.
Yeah, John Mack. And there was communications. They said that when they stared into the eyes
of these things, that they felt this feeling of be careful with technology. Technology can
lead you down a dark path or it could be bad for your civilization.
Probably not the thoughts that these children were having.
Probably not a natural thought that these children would be having,
especially during that time in the early 90s. I mean, looking at where the world was then.
And then there were so many school sightings like this, which is very interesting to me.
Because when you think of children and how much more open-minded they are than adults who are
just hardwired into thinking the world is a certain way. That alone just makes me whether,
how real that is or not, that makes me optimistic about this whole thing.
And I'll say too that I don't think what we're experiencing is probably a new phenomenon.
I think that would be a statistical unlikeliness or be unlikely statistically to think that
this just started in the very recent past. I work from the assumption that this is probably
been going on much longer than that. What that means in my daily thinking, I don't know.
But I don't think this is new. And if we assume that, then I don't think we have to have that much
to fear as we better understand this because we're already living in that world. We just don't know
it. So the fear is all just our own internal chains that we need to come to terms with.
Stories like this, there's only two things you can really do with it in a sense.
You can accept it or you cannot. And I think a lot of people choose the latter,
like maybe perhaps as a school teacher, because it's almost like a cognitive dissidence in a sense
where you cannot process that information and continue about in your normal life immediately.
And so your brain just kind of dismisses it as either confusion or
temporary stupidity or what have you and go about their lives. And I've noticed that in this
conversation that I've been having more broadly about this topic. Sometimes there's just people that
and one of the best ways you can identify them is as soon as you mentioned something
quote-unquote alien, they're just different or UAP, just immediate laughter. The first reaction is
a ha, and then they realize you're not laughing. And then they kind of like, oh, okay, but they
don't know how to move forward from that point because they're not ready to integrate that into
their reality yet. I truly think people really do live in their own realities.
You create your perception of the world in your brain and you do that based on your experiences,
whether they're true or not. And a lot of times I think people use that kind of mentality to
protect themselves from this type of information almost as a protection
mechanism where it's just too outside, their scope of every day for them to really just stop
and integrate it because it's just too much. Right. It's too much and we're busy. We're busy.
We got shit to do. It's almost the same thing that you dealt with in the Navy in a way.
Oh, 100% is exactly the same way. We got missions to do. We got this. We got that.
I want to promote. I want to do this. I want to eventually get home and see my wife.
People are just so focused on their day-to-day lives and what they have to do in the next hour
and staring at their phones on social media. That was even true for us as fighter pilots
when we were literally in the sky looking at these objects, which bad on us. But
we only have so much fuel and X, Y and Z and there's a lot of reasons why that was the right
answer. Of course. But it doesn't prevent me from looking back with a little bit of regret
wondering what we could have learned if we paid more attention at the time.
Well, cool, man. I really appreciate you coming and doing this. This was fascinating.
Yeah, it was my pleasure. It was great. Thanks for having me.
Tell people again where they can find your new podcast and whatever else that you have online.
People can follow to learn more about you. Yeah, absolutely.
Oh, look, there it is. There it is. The Merge Podcast.
MergePoint podcast on YouTube or mergepodcast.com. We're going to start airing our first episode
tomorrow. It'll already be out by the time you hear this. You can also follow me on Twitter
at Uncertain Vector. I can't wait for you guys to see it.
That's incredible. How'd you come up with the name Merged?
Well, that's how we saw these things. We have a merge with them. A merge is a fighter pilot term
when you get close enough to an object to visually ID it because you're uncertain of its
origin or its makeup. We go to merges and dogfights all the time. That's when we go nose on.
We get as close as we can. We merge plot, which means the radar operators can no longer distinguish
radar contacts on their scope anymore. We've merged into one radar contact.
Oh, that's fascinating. That's great. That's how we visually ID things.
Appreciate it again, man. Thank you. Good night, world.
Good night.
