We just finished covering the last three hours.
We sort of covered your background in machining and engineering, and we got into all of the
details of the Great Pyramid and the different chambers and shafts which you theorized, essentially
that the Great Pyramid of Giza is a solid state electron harvester that gathers electrons
from igneous rock deep inside the earth and creates microwave energy.
Did I get that right?
Yeah.
For the most part.
For the most part.
Okay.
Right.
All right.
So, we're jumping back in, and we also talked about how there was a discovery that there
was a huge hydrogen explosion inside of the king's chamber.
That's what I theorized, yeah.
And the theory is going back 12,000 years ago, roughly when we know that there were
no, we don't know exactly, but it's potential that they could have happened during the Great
Cataclysm that has supposedly happened 12,800, 13,000 years ago when a series of comments
at the earth, potentially comments, could have been mass ejections.
I have to be clear on one thing though.
Yes.
Two things.
Okay.
One is that as far as when the Great Pyramid was built and as far as who built it, I have
no opinion on that.
No opinion.
I just focus on how and why.
Right.
Just focusing on the engineering.
Now, as far as the who and when, my position is that it's up to the Egyptians to decide
the answers to those questions.
Why is it up to the Egyptians?
Because it's in their country.
Oh, you're talking about, okay, you're talking about the specific people that are involved
in the science behind this stuff that are in Egypt.
Not necessarily, you're not referring to-
Well, I mean, I think you're talking about different disciplines.
Okay.
So, to understand the functions of the Great Pyramid and to allow it, get it to work again,
then you are going to need your physicists and your scientists and technical skills on
many levels, but as far as deciding the history of it and the time period when it was functioning,
that could involve another branch of academia or the sciences to understand those questions.
And so, I stay out of the historical thing.
And also, the whole issue of one thing I've always avoided is resorting to Atlanteans or
aliens.
And there's a good reason for that.
When you look at history and the Egyptians and what they have experienced from outsiders
who have come to their country, whether it's from Napoleon to the British and the Germans
and the Americans, they see a lot of their treasured artifacts left the country.
And some of those artifacts, they're demanding be returned or requesting they be returned.
And so, another aspect of that is not just the physical artifacts are now leaving the
country, but also the heritage is being questioned.
And by some people who claim that, well, the Egyptians were not capable of doing that.
And so, therefore, it must have been another race.
And I think that is where there is a misunderstanding in terms of how that is interpreted by the
Egyptians because it's like, well, not only are they ripping off our artifacts, but they're
ripping off our history and our heritage.
And so, they're very sensitive to that.
I don't want to do that because we don't know.
And when you consider looking at these artifacts that are beautifully crafted, beautifully finished,
and if you look at the what happens to any civilization after a cataclysm, what would
happen to its industries, to its scientists, to all the specialized skills that exist within
the culture that make that civilization function?
I mean, it's so myriad and dynamic and varied and nuanced, and no one person can interpret
everything about what happened in a particular culture at a particular time.
There's nobody.
Archaeologists, historians, they don't know.
They just have a very, very narrow field of view into society today.
Can you imagine what the viewpoint in society is that led thousands of years ago?
It gets really murky really quickly.
So, if you think about it, if our society, if America was suddenly hit with a comet and
everything was destroyed, we would be brought to our knees or all our technologies would
disappear over time, everything would be destroyed, a large section of the population would disappear.
There would be an extinction event that have been in the past, and there couldn't be again.
So what happens then?
I mean, in terms of the survivors, what are they going to be doing?
They're not going to be going on Facebook and checking their iPhone, not for long.
All the cell towers that go down, everything will become.
So, they'll be stuck in caves trying to survive, scrimping, so how long does it take a person
who is reduced to rubble, everything that they've known and enjoyed, how long does it
take for them to build back to that particular stage?
Right.
And to say that the people that survived a cataclysm in America were not capable at some
point in their history of doing wonderful, amazing things, and, you know, having brilliant
scientists arise out of the general population and do brilliant, amazing things.
To say that that particular culture could not support an advanced civilization, I think
is wrong.
It's just a matter of, you know, our civilization has been dependent on, first of all, resources,
human resources, and also the physical resources of nature that provide us with abundance and
freedom, freedom for educating people and developing programs where instead of being
out in the field, they're giving potatoes or whatever to feed the family, they're sent
off to university to learn physics and, you know, and it's kind of like that development.
You have to have that, the underpinning of science is based on people having that kind
of freedom and people around them that recognize that they are different and that they should
be nurtured and developed and they can eventually benefit everybody and whereas if you're just
living in an agrarian society and, you know, just to live, just to survive, you've got
to work the land.
The education institutions no longer exist and if they did, you won't have time to go
to them.
Right.
So, yeah, I mean, it's a scary thought, really, when you think about it.
Yeah.
If it wasn't a crazy advanced civilization that had essentially hit the reset button
on everything that we would lose, like if that happened right now, we would have within
500 years, there would be no evidence of any of the skyscrapers, there would be nothing
left except for Mount Rushmore, the Great Pyramids and like the Hoover Dam, right?
The stone structure would survive.
Maybe, yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, it's kind of like to say the Egyptians because when you look at how
they lived and worked 5,000 years ago, I mean, they did have an amazing civilization just
in that period of time.
But to say that there was no point in their history when they were capable of building
the pyramids, I think is a mistake.
You just have to know what period of time it was when the destruction came and everything
stopped.
Which is a very interesting perspective that I haven't heard anybody.
It seems like there's so much war going on between people that are talking about this
and debating this, it's become such an entrenched ideology and almost like a religion for some
people to where they just want to fight.
But like you said, yeah, it is entirely possible that the Egyptians that came later were just
the survivors of who came before who had the tools and had the machines to build some
of these insanely precise structures and objects and machines.
Right.
I mean, the evidence is there, all you have to do is recognize it, take measurements.
Right, yeah, like you have done.
So we're looking at the Queens Chamber right now on your slides.
We talked about the hydrogen explosion and it would be probably a good thing to talk
about where the hydrogen was created and why hydrogen was considered to be the gaseous
medium where laser activity takes place.
So if we look at the Queens Chamber, it had two shafts, in 1872, Weynman-Dixon detected
a crack in the wall and found that a compusher rod threw into, perceivably, an open space.
So he had the limestone chiseled out, initially they were not connected to the chamber.
Really?
Right.
See, that's a very, very important point is that there was a five inch, what they call
a five inch left, it's been called, where the shaft was cut almost to the inside wall
but five inches remained.
Then there was a crack.
So there's your five inches, there's your crack, right.
Then in 1993, Rudolph Gansenberg explored this shaft and he found that it ended at a
stone block.
Okay, before I go further with this, I should add that Weynman-Dixon also opened up the
northern shaft, I tap in on the wall and detecting a hollow space directly opposite
the other shaft, he chiseled the limestone out there and opened up that shaft.
So you've got two shafts that are closed off at the chamber, they don't connect with
the chamber, they just have that layer of limestone.
Why do you think they weren't connected to the chamber?
There's a reason for that, I'm getting to it.
Okay.
Good question.
Thanks.
So anyway, when Gansenberg sent his robot up, he found this, he found the Gansenberg's
door and everybody's heard of that.
And then through the door, he saw that there were two fittings, metal fittings.
I haven't read any metallurgical analysis of what the composition of the material is,
but they have some very unusual features.
Number one, which is important, is that the one on the left here that you see here is
shorter than this one.
They found a piece of it that was on the shaft floor further down from it.
So it had broken up or dropped off and fell down.
This one was intact, but you can see that it was tapered from the top to bottom.
You can see a little tapering on that.
Right.
So there is a reason for that.
So essentially, once that was discovered, and they were talking about drilling a hole
through that limestone block, it's called a door.
That shaft is only like eight inches square.
So a door for what?
There's no one there.
It's just a misnomer.
I think, actually, how us was involved in that, and a door, it seems like, okay, we'll
call it a door because maybe Kufu's tomb is behind it.
There's some treasure back there.
Yeah.
So it's a door to some other mysteries, right?
So anyway, when they were testing the thickness on the door, I had published in my book, this
image right here, and basically I had speculated that behind these Kaffa fittings or whatever
material they made of, were connected to some cables that went down to a chamber, and the
reason for the Kaffa fittings or whatever the material was, was to create a circuit.
They served as like a fluid switch.
So if you can imagine, what is the reason, what is the purpose of these shafts, where
they're closed at the bottom end and closed at the top end, why?
What would they be using?
What would pass through there?
There's only one substance that would pass through, and that is a fluid.
How would a fluid get into a closed-off shaft with no openings?
Well, that's it.
It had to have been pumped from below, from somewhere below, right?
And so the two chemicals, there was a chemical engineer that worked at the company I was
working at, and his name was George Ryuski.
And I said, well, what two chemicals could I mix to produce hydrogen?
And he gave me a formula for it, it was hydrated zinc and a dilute hydrochloric acid solution.
Okay.
So looking at the erosion or corrosion of the pens, and considering the operation, you
have a layer of fluid that is covering the pens, creating a circuit, okay?
And so electricity flows from one of those, I call them electrodes.
One of those electrodes to the other, electricity is flowing.
So that signals a closed condition, all right?
So when the fluid drops below the level of those pens, then the circuit opens.
Now, what is important is the metering of this fluid into the chamber.
And so by gathering information from numerous sources, right, I was puzzling over the Queen's
Chamber shaft.
And I was talking to a civil engineer, he was doing percolation tests in the property
I had in Southern Indiana.
Well, Southern Indiana has a lot of limestone, as you know, right?
And so I was out talking to him as he was doing a percolation test, and basically what
that is, it digs a hole, right?
And then he times, he fills it with water, and then he times the disappearance of the
water to determine how many cubic feet that you would need to handle a septic system,
right?
Okay.
For a house.
Okay.
So your fluid waste goes into a septic tank, and then it's dispersed through these runs
that will distribute it through several pipes and into the surrounding soil.
So I asked him, I said, well, what do you do if you're doing a percolation testing around
Bedford where there's a lot of limestone?
What happens then?
So you dig it into limestone, do you still drill a test hole and fill it with water?
And he said, yes.
I said, really?
He said, yeah.
They said, you drill your test hole, and then you determine what the dispersion rate is,
or the percolation rate.
And I said, well, okay, that's interesting.
And what determines the dispersion of the percolation rate?
He said the head pressure.
The what pressure?
The head pressure.
The head pressure.
Right.
So really, that is the weight of water, or the weight, yeah, weight of the fluid that's
pressing down on the limestone, pushing it through the limestone.
You got it?
Yes.
It goes through the limestone at a certain rate.
But in order for that rate to be precise and continuous, the head pressure or the column
of fluid has to be maintained at a certain level.
So how exactly does the fluid get in there?
It gets in through these things, these two things?
Well, no.
I propose that there was a, behind this particular limestone block, there will be a vertical shaft
going down to the bedrock, and where you had the equipment necessary and supplies necessary
to pump more fluid behind the canterbrink's door, and then replenish the shaft and maintain
that level.
And it replenishes the shaft by going through the limestone, which is the door?
No, there is a gap underneath the door, and there's also a notch on the side.
So...
Oh.
So there won't be any problem with it going through there.
So another point I want to make is that, you know, a part of the evidence to support that
idea...
You say there's a gap under there?
Yeah, there's a little notch in the corner over there.
Okay.
Those pins are tapered top to bottom.
They're thicker at the top of the bottom.
Right.
Right?
So if you got a corrosive fluid that is covering those, and then slowly dropping, then you
would actually have a corrosive effect that would leave a taper, because the lower parts
of that pin would be submerged longer than the upper parts of the pin.
Right.
And then when the fluid gets to below the pins, not touching it anymore, that's when
they're triggered to fill it with more.
Right.
Exactly.
Okay.
Exactly.
And notice this kind of substance around there, it's like an insulation, right?
Well, this becomes a little more interesting as we get into further research.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
So we got that.
Now, when they actually did the exploration, they used a, this is about like an impact
test, a thickness tester, where the...
Of the door.
Of the door, yeah.
Yeah.
So they measure the thickness of the limestone, they're recording it down there and it's 3.25
inches.
Okay.
Right?
So in my drawing, I had illustrated 3.64 inches.
Interesting.
So just a little bit off, but still close, right?
So this is before they drilled.
After they had drilled, they found that there was no indication of wiring in their images
because it was like a fish eye lens and everything was focused.
Yeah.
Straight through.
Straight through and there was no articulation of the camera or anything like that.
So they were unable to look around.
But I had kind of modified my theory a little bit and posted it on my website and I proposed
that the shaft may exist, but it may have been on an angle and it may go to the outside,
to the south.
So it's just like, okay, we get more information, we adjust the theory and we could still be
wrong.
Right.
And I probably still am, but at least we're making progress, right?
Okay.
After that, the Jedi program, it was a dentist from Hong Kong who was very, very energetic
and very persistent visiting Dr. Hawass numerous times and trying to get permission to do an
exploration.
And he got a team together from England, Lee's University.
And so they created a robot, they called it the Jedi.
And they were going to put the robot where?
They were going to put the robot up the southern shaft.
Okay.
Yeah.
Maybe, actually, I should probably go in order before that.
Sure.
When the pyramid, it was a pyramid rover in 2002, when they explored the southern shaft
and they drilled through it and they went up the northern shaft.
Oh.
Gantembrink tried to go up the northern shaft when he sent his robot up there and it gripped
the ceiling and the floor and he couldn't get around some obstructions in the bend.
Okay.
Okay.
The bend that goes around the Grand Gallery.
Right.
Okay.
And so the pyramid rover, what the team, what they did is they turned their device on
the 90 degrees and it gripped the walls instead of the ceiling and the floor.
Okay.
So they went up and they visited the, found the same kind of condition, a blockage at
the end of the shaft.
Wow.
And the pins in this case look a little different than they did in the southern shaft.
So the pins here are basically, you have the left one, it has this kind of a white substance
on it and on this particular pin, it's clear.
This pin also is recessed in the granite, I mean in the limestone.
The limestone was cut away, there was a groove cut away and that pin is recessed in the limestone.
I got an email from a guy in England and he was, he said, you know, they used recessed
cathode to extend the life of an electrode and I was like, cool, that's pretty good.
So these recesses weren't evident in the south shaft though, just in the north shaft.
Right.
Just in the north.
Okay.
There was something else in the north shaft that was recorded at that time, but it remained
hidden until just like a couple of years ago, 2021, which we'll get into.
Okay.
We'll go back to the Jedi exploration and what they explored the southern shaft with
their robot, they got to an articulating camera that went through the same hole that the Pyramid
Rover drilled and got to look around.
And interestingly, you see that the pins, when they push through and enter the space
behind Gansenbrink's door, they're looped around and seem to be locked into position
in the back of the so-called door.
And so you also, you also see in this as a kind of like a white substance around that.
Right?
Mm-hmm.
And then on this one, it seems fairly clean, except this is like, seems like this is some
kind of a rubber washer or something.
It looks like a stain on the stone.
Could be.
Could be.
You never know.
I mean, until you physically examine everything, you can just speculate, I guess.
They also were able to look on the floor behind the door and they picked up these symbols
that were painted with presumably red ochre on the floor.
And you have this device right here, and then there was kind of like a letter five.
It does look like a number five, doesn't it?
Yeah.
And something similar here, but it's, you know, it's hard to really tell.
So and then there was also a line, right, which was basically right in line with the
pens that came through the door.
Okay.
Right.
So they didn't know what those markings were.
They assumed that they were Mason's marks.
I actually said, well, no, they're electricians symbols, electrical symbols.
And what this one is is a twisted pair, right?
So you've got a cable with two wires coming out of it.
And then a couple of clips, one on that side and one on that side, positive and negative.
And then the line on the floor is to identify the polarity of the door.
So it's really a wiring diagram.
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition, exercise and sleep
as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length with doctors
and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that
hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels with powerful
ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called certuans.
Certuans are called longevity genes because by activating them, they support overall health
and slow down aging related effects by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damage DNA and ramp up energy production
in your brain, immune system and muscles.
Now you can't take NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb,
but NMN directly converts to NAD plus while resveratrol activates your certuans, which
increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN
on its own.
Verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Danny, it's spelled D-A-N-N-Y, to save
15% off your entire order or just go to ver.so forward slash Danny, back to the show.
How would people get up in there though to read that?
Good question.
When you read more of my book, you'll find out.
I read the whole thing.
Maybe I blacked out on this chapter.
No, the whole thing.
Maybe I know the answer.
I'm just asking you.
It is a maintenance issue, right?
Because if you've got, it's like, okay, so we see that one of those electrodes was heavily
eroded to the point where the part of it broke off, right?
Without presumably any intervention by human beings or man or mouse, right?
So there had to have been some action on that particular electrode for it to break off.
And that's where your dilute hydrochloric acid comes from.
Okay.
Then the other part to that is because that broke off and because it is an item that would
need to be replaced on occasion, then they would have to have some way of accessing it.
And I first thought about, you know, there is a theory, a theory put out by Jean-Pierre
Houdon who claims that there was an internal ramp and they used that ramp to haul stones
up and build the pyramid.
And so I was thinking about the internal ramp, but then I kind of settled on the idea that
the most efficient and quickest way to get to that particular spot would be on the south
face, just a very short tunnel for maintenance workers to reach the back of that door, pull
out the existing door and put another one in there.
So they could remove the outermost blocks of the face of the pyramid and just go right
in there.
Yeah.
So there would be some way of accessing it on the south.
There would have to be some way of accessing it because, you know, obviously it would
need to be replaced periodically.
Okay.
There's a drawing in my book that I show that.
Right.
Okay.
Yeah.
So that said, on the southern shaft.
And so there is still more to learn about what point or where the fluid is introduced.
I had assumed that the fluid was introduced behind the blockage or behind the Gantenbrink
store and its counterpart on the north side.
So my scheme was that the chemicals will be delivered to the back of those blocks.
Right.
That was until 2021 and there's a YouTube channel, Ancient Architects, and they created
a video that showed all the, a load of photographs that were taken by the pyramid rover that had
never been released to the public before.
And it was the pyramid rover, actually photographs at stages as it was climbing up that shaft
to reach the so-called door of the blockage, right?
And about halfway up, about 90 feet up, they came across this.
So there's an opening in that shaft and it's near one of the bends.
You see the two rods there, those were exploratory rods that were pushed up there.
And you can also see that there's a lot of trash in there.
But the area in front of that opening is fairly clean.
Yes.
How far up the shaft is this door?
This opening?
98 feet.
98 feet.
Yeah.
Wow.
And is this in both north and the south shafts?
That is a good question.
So we still have to...
This is south or north?
Right here.
This is north.
North.
This is north.
And it's on the east side, right?
I'm sorry.
I'm blanking, but north is the side of the door of the entrance.
That's the south shaft.
Got it.
Yeah.
This is the north shaft.
Gansham Brinks is on the south.
This is the one on the side of the Grand Gallery.
Right.
Exactly.
Okay.
Right.
Oh, there's a hole.
That's a hole.
So where does this space lead to, this little access?
That's an unknown right now.
How could they not have found out where this goes with all the scans that have been done?
Well, yeah.
I mean, it was actually in an article that was written by Zahe Huas and this image appeared
in that article, but it was in some arcane journal, you know, and no mention of it whatsoever.
And so, you know, it seemed like everybody was more interested in the destination rather
than the journey.
They were just pressing on to seek in the end of the shaft rather than paying attention
to what was appearing in the cameras on the way up there.
That's insane.
Yeah.
Isn't it though?
So this could be where they introduced the chemicals.
Right.
Exactly.
Where do you speculate the other end of this little doorway is?
Right here.
Where's this?
This looks like it's outside.
It's outside the pyramid and it's on the east side near the center of the pyramid.
Okay.
Okay.
So this vertical shaft is like, there are two parts to it, right and left, right, but
it's kind of interesting.
The surface of this wall or what we're seeing right here, the back wall, is kind of interesting.
It doesn't appear to be natural limestone and it's kind of like there's a separation
between it and this wall right here, you see.
Right.
Right.
So I don't know what has happened in prehistory or reason.
It looks like stairs down there.
But they're not stairs.
But the funny story, when I was there in 2021, my hat blew off and landed down in there.
Oh no.
Yeah.
No.
A very nice young man, Egyptian young man jumped down and got it.
Oh, that was nice.
Yeah.
So it was windy.
But so what I would like to do is to do an experiment and fill the north shaft, just
cap it off in the queen's chamber and just pump water in it until it reaches the level
of that opening and then monitor what goes on on the outside and see where it goes.
I suspect.
Where do we get, how do we get the liquid into the north shaft through here?
No.
No.
Through the queen's chamber.
Go into the queen's chamber, cap off the northern shaft.
And fill the queen's chamber up with water?
No.
Fill the shaft with water.
Just start pumping water into the shaft.
Okay.
Pump water into the shaft and then see if water comes out of here.
Right.
Okay.
That'd be cool if we could do that.
Probably not in my lifetime.
Or couldn't you just fill this thing up with water until it eventually comes out of, see
if it ever comes out of the shaft?
If it ever do that.
See, you never could do that because of the different levels.
Oh, got it.
Okay.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It would just start pouring out of here.
I got it.
Yeah.
It's gravity.
Gravity.
Damn gravity.
Damn gravity.
So.
Wow.
So this would be potentially, what do you think the function of this would be?
This opening here outside of the pyramid?
This would facilitate some means to deliver the chemicals to the individual shafts, one
on the northern shaft and the southern shaft.
But didn't you just say if we poured stuff in there, it would never reach the shaft?
Not without pushing it up there.
Oh, you'd have to push it.
You'd have to push it.
So I mean, you would restore it to its original function and pump it up when there's a signal
for more chemicals.
Okay.
So it would have to be pumped through there.
Got it.
Right.
And okay.
So then basically what we're doing is we're taking the idea that the chemicals were pumped
all the way up here and then, you know, I think it makes, you know, those Egyptians,
they were brilliant, weren't they?
So this east, on the bottom here, this east side bedrock chemical supply shaft, it looks
like it's under, because this is a 2D diagram, but this is actually on the outside coming
towards us, right?
Exactly.
And those shafts, those outer, those, okay, there's two outermost shafts that connect
to it.
That's the speculation at this point.
Right.
You know, what the reality turns out to be is another matter.
Right, right.
But right now, there's kind of, there's, hence, there is an area in the southern shaft that
is of interest, but hopefully they'll be able to find something out soon if they go back
in there and explore it.
Okay.
So that's, this is assuming that that same little opening is in the southern shaft, but
we only have found it in the northern shaft.
Right.
So chemicals are being introduced through this outside shaft, through the ground, being
pumped up into these south and north shafts, which slowly introduce these chemicals into
the Queens Chamber.
And inside of the Queens Chamber, what is happening with that chemical reaction?
Well, ultimately, they would be mixed and boil off hydrogen, then the hydrogen would
fill the interior of the Great Pyramid.
Now there are, there are, there's other evidence that we haven't discussed, and early explorers
in the Queens Chamber found that the walls were encrusted with salt up to about an inch
thick.
Really?
Yeah.
It's funny how that happened.
When was this?
I don't know.
Long time ago?
I mean, if you're, if you're reading Piazza Smyth, then, you know, he was reporting on
earlier visitors being driven out of the chamber by a noisome odor, which, you know, kind of
suggests a chemical reaction, kind of like opening a kind of...
Odor, yes.
...smelling salt.
Yeah.
What happened to those smelling salts here, there?
In case we need them?
Oh, yeah.
The world needs to see Chris Dunn huffs of smelling salts.
No, they don't.
So this is what, this is an experiment.
You reproduced, in a lab, you reproduced what would be happening in those shafts with
those electrodes were going through the door.
You can explain this better than me.
Go ahead.
No, you're doing fine.
No, I said, no.
Basically, I created a model out of plexiglass of the Ganttumbring, a so-called door, and
I crafted these electrodes with the loop on the end, and also fitted it with clips, shaped
like a number five, and wired it up to a light source, and then put it, then I made
a model of a tank, right, same dimensions as the Southern shaft, a much shorter length,
obviously.
8.4 by 4.8?
No.
No, this was more like 8 inches square.
So then I fitted it up and demonstrated it to work.
So that was a setup in the lab at Danville Metal Stamping, and basically, I actually took
that photograph after the liquid had dropped, but I demonstrated it for the ancient aliens,
folks, and I had everything set up with the lights off and then filled the tank and brought
the liquid up until it covered the pins, and then the lights turned on, and so everything
worked.
That's wild.
So what is that liquid, which is, what exactly is that liquid again?
It's just regular water with some food coloring in it.
And as soon as it reached the pins, it turned on the light.
So then the other part of the experiment was to create the hydrogen, and I mixed the zinc
and hydrochloric acid, dilute hydrochloric acid, and so the hydrogen boiled off, escaped
through that chimney, and I put a flame to it.
And is that like a solid flame that's being created right there from those from the zinc
and the...
Just where the gas is coming out of the top of that chimney.
And it's sustained like that?
It stays like that?
Yeah.
Wow.
Right.
So that would be the effect inside the queen's chamber?
Yeah.
Except without the flame, we hope.
Has there been no evidence of any other artifacts that could have been like the guts of the
pyramid?
Ah, good question.
One point before I address that question.
Okay.
I'll get it, remind me, because I'm getting old now.
Another point to make is that when I made those pins, and I inserted them into the hole
and then bent them down 90 degrees, right?
I had to apply a little heat and the pressure that I had to exert on the end of that to
cause it to form was a fairly significant amount of pressure that I had to put on it.
And so when you look at the pins that are there now and the fact that one of them on
the left broke up, there's no way that those pins, the one on the right or the left, could
have been bent into that position after being installed.
Right.
Right.
They would have broken up before you actually got there.
Because when they went to test the thickness of the limestone, whether intentionally or
accidentally, the one on the right was shortened and broke off, but nobody said anything about
it.
Well, couldn't 10,000 years of corrosion just made them break?
You can believe that if you wish, but then how do you explain the northern shaft not
being broken?
I mean, yeah, I guess it's just chance.
If you got four metal pins and ask them all to survive 15,000 years, I mean, there's
a chance one of them would break and three of them wouldn't, right?
I doubt it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
We've left alone with no interference of anything, any mechanical, chemical kind of, no.
Okay.
So there's one thing that I wanted to touch on that we kind of move past rather quickly.
When we were talking about the input signal from the northern shaft and then the south
shaft with the horn antenna, the inlet point on the north shaft, the shaft goes through
a series of bends, right?
So you see one band, one, two, three, four bends before it enters the king's chamber.
The point where it enters the king's chamber is one quarter of the distance of the length
of the chamber.
So like a resonant cavity, a standing wave, the quarter wave point is considered to be
a point where the highest amplitude of sound would exist or the energy would be the greatest
at the quarter wave point.
That's a significant point.
The other thing is that there are four bends rather than just one or two, why?
And that is the design of waveguides, according to my good friend and aerospace engineer, Eric
Wilson, would be used to correct the beam.
They go through different kind of steps.
So you'll find along the shaft there is a step down in one area, another place there
is like a bump where the shaft is constricted.
And so he believes that those are definitely fingerprints of an ancient waveguide.
The other point to make is you see where the shaft is located, right?
And the theory about why it is bent is to pass so it doesn't interfere with the grand
gallery.
And you'll see if it just went out straight without those bends, it would miss the grand
gallery, right?
And so it's that doesn't, that seems to, by about three feet, yeah, yeah.
And then when you look at when it finally takes its last bend and goes up past the grand
gallery, it passes the gallery by about 13 and a half feet.
So that to me is significant.
It means that I don't know how thick those wall blocks are of the grand gallery, but
I can imagine that they are extremely thick.
Meaning that all these bends, they are on purpose.
They aren't just too, it's not like they were just figuring this out as they went about
building it.
It's not like, oh, look, this is too close to this, well, let's build it out this way.
No, these bends have a specific function.
Right.
This is a 3D drawing of it, where this was actually taken from Gantan Brink's drawings.
He's the one that did all the measurements.
And so you see how that looks, right?
Compared to if you wanted to just ventilate the chamber, you could just go straight down
into it and, you know, the position where that ends of the chamber is so specific.
The quarter wave location?
The quarter wave location, it's undeniable.
What is so specific about it?
That it's at a high energy point in the resident chamber.
Oh, okay.
The cavigal tunnel.
What is that?
The caviglia.
The caviglia was an Italian explorer who reportedly dug that tunnel to reach the northern
chef.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
And you see where that bend eye is?
Yes.
That's where Gantan Brink installed a ventilation fan.
And this sort of invisible shaft, the less complicated ventilation shaft, that's how
they could have installed it.
Oh, to be simple.
If they wanted to make it easier.
That's the point I wanted to make.
Okay.
Very interesting.
When we scale this whole pyramid down and sort of test everything on a smaller scale
to see if it works, like to make a pyramid that's like one-tenth the size of this pyramid
just to see if it works on a smaller scale?
That's a good question and yeah, a lot of people will have asked that.
I think in terms of scale, you can't really scale down a wave guide that has specific
dimensions in order for it to function.
Okay.
So it's like, you know, it's going to be 8.4 inches.
And then as far as how the entire system operates, it covers 13 acres.
So it's collecting energy for over a 13-acre area.
And if you reduce that down, do you reach the energy levels that you need in order for
it to function?
So I would say that in some, you know, if you wanted to test the Freund effect theory
and you wanted to be able to, you know, without all the mechanisms on the inside that you
see in the Great Pyramid, you just wanted to force the release of electrons from the
lithosphere.
And then, you know, you would build a simpler system to do that.
But the other part of that is also is how do you collect the energy and how do you distribute
it?
You know, that's the other question.
And so this is where I get a little creative.
Oh, look at that.
That's beautiful.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms.
With only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee, you get energy without the jitters
or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose, cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot
chocolate like flavor, lion's mane to support focus, cordyceps to help support physical
performance, and both chaga and reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about Mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their time to
find all the perfect ingredients to develop a product that helps you feel better every
single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments as they believe the country
is in a mental health epidemic and sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals with depression,
PTSD, anxiety and other mental health experiences.
So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below mudwater.com forward slash Danny
and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny and use the promo code Danny at checkout to get
15% off.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
So is this what it looked like when it was working?
So basically I see the vibrations coming from underneath the earth hitting up into
that 13 acre square bottom base of the pyramid, right?
And it's okay, and it's traveling up there and it's the, you know, the interesting thing
about the first thing I noticed about the chambers in the pyramid, they're not directly
underneath the very tip of the pyramid, you know, I would imagine that you'd want this
thing to be symmetrical.
Like it's off center, which is interesting to me.
That's interesting.
The southern, the, the Queen's Chamber is pretty much central.
Okay.
Right.
And the, the top of the grand gallery is pretty much central, but the, the King's Chamber
is offset.
It's offset, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
And I see you have here around the King's Chamber, there's like a square around it.
Well, that's just, yeah, there's nothing.
Yeah.
Okay.
And this dome, what is this dome that we're seeing around the whole pyramid?
Well, that is the, that is the Tesla connection.
That's the Tesla connection.
With the, with the Freyne, you see, with Freyne's experiments, he needed, he needed to have
the handshaking going on.
So as these positive holes are released from the lithosphere, they have to join with negative
electrons and basically create, you know, create that energy flow.
So this would be, the energy that's created would be sort of like free energy, free energy
in the air.
It would power everything that they had.
It would be, you know, based on, you know, it's a nod to Nikola Tesla and his Walden
Cliff Tower, right?
His what?
The Walden Cliff Tower and his vision of a wild, wildest distribution of energy, right?
So if you have like a, you know, like a cage over the pyramid, you can have several connection
points that go to the surface of the pyramid where that handshaking takes place.
And then it's radiated out through, through, through the dome.
Whoa.
I know it's crazy, right?
Is it more like science fiction?
It really is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It really, but everything is like science fiction nowadays.
Well, you know, the thing is, is that the more you learn about what the ancient Egyptians
were capable of, I don't think you can put limits on your imagination to determine the
full extent of it.
You know, it's kind of like, you know, we'd say, well, this couldn't be done today.
And I've always avoided that, that kind of conclusion that it can't be done today.
But I also think at the same time that it's like, well, what else were they doing that
we don't know about?
Right.
We're only, we're only just scratching the surface.
We clearly don't think and operate the same way because if they were building things like
that, they, they went down an entirely different path than we went down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because if we're on the trajectory that we are on now, as far as our civilization goes
and the way we harvest energy and the way we do everything, it's, we're going to end
up at a complete, if we keep going down, we'd have to completely start from scratch to get
to here.
Well, we may end up that way anyway when you consider, you know, the reserves of coal
and oil in the world.
Do you think there's a possibility that we could end up, we could end up with something
like this on our current path?
It would, it would take, it would take somebody, it certainly wouldn't be, you know, a political,
it wouldn't be a political thing.
The government would probably wouldn't do it.
It would be a political thing.
Yeah, it may become, I don't know.
If somebody sees this and decides that money could be made and our profit could be made,
then I think that it's possible, you know, to take somebody like an Elon Musk who is
building all these cars.
Well, he only spent 55 billion on Twitter.
He could spend half of that and reconstruct this pyramid and get it working again.
I got a perfect site for him too.
Have you ever heard of Marfa, Texas?
No.
Where's that?
Oh, well.
Marfa?
Marfa.
Yeah, it's a Marfa lights.
Google it.
Marfa, Texas.
Marfa.
M-A-R-M-A.
What's so, what's so special about it?
They say, that's a light show all the time there is earthquake, you know.
Earthquake lights.
Oh, terrestrial lights, I would say.
Terrestrial lights, right?
Right.
Which is the same thing as earthquake lights.
Which is the same as earthquake lights.
Okay.
But there's definitely a lot of activity there.
Wow.
Are there, there are big tall mountaintops there or what?
I think, I don't, I'm not so sure about that.
I just recently learned about that.
Marfa, Texas, earthquake lights, we should be able to find something like this on Google.
You should.
Yeah.
So, but then again, you know, this drive for everybody to go electric and building all
these electric cars, how are they going to be eventually powered, you know?
They're still powered by, burned by coal and these typical power plants that we have now.
You know, in my book, I show a graphic of a coal pyramid next to the, next to the Great
Pyramid, right, in 2021, they mined by weight enough coal to equal 76 Great Pyramids.
What?
Just in the United States.
That's bizarre.
Yeah.
But that's what they did, 76, 76 times the size of the Great Pyramid.
It really baffles my mind that there's not some like really smart, super billionaires
around the world that could be fascinated enough in this technology and just this, just
the stuff that you've dug into and uncovered and theorized that they would want to sort
of back engineer this thing for real.
Well, you got to, hopefully, people will start to tune into it.
I mean, you know, right now, my book isn't even available, so people aren't reading
it.
Right?
Well, the Giza power plant is.
The Giza power plant is, but the Tesla connection is like the Giza power plant on steroids, right?
It's got a lot more to it.
Because it introduces the idea of the igneous rock creating energy.
The, yeah.
Yeah.
The fried effect.
Then the fried effect, right.
And what do the other two pyramids have to do with the Big Pyramid?
Are they similar in construction?
Well, I think that every, most of all pyramids, really, will serve the same purpose.
They just performed in different ways, but essentially, you have a very energetic part
of the world, which is that part of Egypt, and drawing energy from the Earth's lithosphere.
I mean, you go to Sakara, it's a very lively place, very lively, you know.
What do you mean lively?
Vibrations.
Oh.
You know.
It's.
Tectonically live?
Well, whether it's, yeah, I mean, it's tectonic or just the way it has been terraformed in
a way to, they've got a lot of these deep shafts and tunnels, miles and miles of tunnels
in and around, under and around the, the bent pyramid, the step pyramid.
So yeah, I mean, I think that whole, that whole area is massive.
It's all part of this.
Energy manufacturing site, yeah.
Have any explorations been done on the other two pyramids that are next to the Great Pyramids
to this level?
Like, are the, do they know if the shaft, they have the shafts and all the chambers just
like this?
No.
And, and one of the things that, that, one of the criticisms that I've received over
the years is that I seem to be looking at this in, out of context and in isolation.
So I isolate the Great Pyramid and I analyze the Great Pyramid to the exclusion of all
the other pyramids.
Right.
Right.
Fair enough.
The only thing is, is that in terms of doing a reverse engineering study, there's more
information, the Great Pyramid has produced more information and more interest than any
of all the other pyramids combined in, you know, for researchers.
So, you know, the available information and the technical aspects of it and the dimensions
of it, have been a focus of many, many researchers over the years and so all that information
is like preliminary information whenever you're doing a reverse engineering project is taking
measurements of what you want to reverse engineer and all that work has been done over
and over.
Right.
I wonder if the other two pyramids though could have been like backup generators or something.
They could have served as like some, like sort of a crutch for the Big Pyramid or something.
If there was any sort of, there had to have been some sort of function for those to help.
I think they all worked in unison and they may, you know, played off each other because,
you know, frequencies sound, I've described the Great Pyramid as a huge musical instrument
because of its nature when you go on the inside of it.
Now what about the Sphinx?
How do you think the Sphinx ties into it?
Do you think that's a part of the engineering?
You know, we talked about Cadman's hydraulic pump generator, right?
A little bit we did, yes.
So if you look at the water erosion, I mean, the Sphinx enclosure and the signs of water
erosion in and around the Giza Plateau, there are deep shafts, you know, to near, well,
the pyramids to the east, small pyramids, Queens pyramids they call them, to the east
of the Great Pyramid.
And then some shafts that have signs of water erosion, some shafts are clear like no water
erosion whatsoever.
And then there is a really deep shaft that's off to the south.
When I saw it in 2001, they had dug down about 100 feet and they were still digging sand
out of it, so I don't know what the status of that project is anymore.
So there was obviously a lot going on and hydraulics does seem to enter into the picture.
And when I look at each of the pyramids individually and you see different features on the inside
like the Great Pyramid, it has that sub-chamber, there's no exit point for water to flow to.
And so when I think of the Cadman model in terms of a hydraulic pulse generator, my thoughts
turn towards...
Can we find the Cadman, is there images of his model?
Yeah, probably.
But my thoughts turn to having underneath the entire plateau a much larger pulse generator
that causes the entire plateau to vibrate.
And so you're releasing electrons not just for one single pyramid, but every pyramid
on that site.
That's the conchal...
So what did he theorize that was happening with this?
I don't theorize anything.
No, what did he...
What was his idea?
That is...
I think that is the Edward Conchal model.
Oh, okay.
Right.
Which John abandoned because he couldn't get it to work and he's focused on just the
lower parts of the sub-chamber, which he did get to work.
But...
Yeah, he built a replica for this thing at his house, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I went out and visited him.
Yeah.
Question that when he demonstrated it working, you felt some rumblings underneath your feet.
I certainly made the ground shake.
Yeah, that was an interesting visit and I met, I was a hydraulic engineer that met us
down there.
His name was Jack Cole, Dr. Jack Cole.
So John started up his machine or his pump and then it started to flow down into a catch
basement.
Right.
They had a...
I think it was a spring-loaded valve at the bottom and then there was a...
When the valve closed, there was a shock wave that was shot back up into the chamber.
Oh, wow.
It was causing the ground to shake underneath.
What I found most interesting was the beat, it was beat like a harp.
Like a harp beat.
Yeah.
Loved up, loved up, loved up, about 60 beats a minute.
So I found that interesting but it's like, yeah, there's a lot of interesting research
going on.
Backyard research.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, none of it.
Well, go up to where it showed the, yeah, right there, the Nile River, oh, wow.
So okay, when Ben was on here, he described the large granite boxes that are in the Serapium.
And I think you measured them personally by hand.
You found out that they were almost perfectly square inside and polished.
And they were in this long hallway and separated almost like it was horse stables.
And they were kind of depressed down into the floor a little bit too.
And people specular, the Egyptologists' theory on this is that those were the tombs, right?
So they put the mummies?
Supposedly.
That's what they say.
For an apis ball, yeah.
That's the official.
That's the official narrative.
Right, okay.
Now, what do you think the purpose of those massive granite boxes with perfect precision,
what do you think the purpose was for those?
Oh, do we have time?
I'd rather just talk about the, I don't know.
There is a...
You don't like talking about it?
No, there is a chapter in my book, right, on the Serapium.
And it introduces some ideas that I picked up along the way and addresses some of the criticism that I've received.
Some of it rather harsh and incorrect.
And some of it quite nasty.
So the problem that you have when you're talking about measurements and you're going into a, obviously, a site where work has been performed,
whether it is a site you would go to today or a site that was created 5,000, 10,000 years ago.
Pick your date, I don't know.
And you are doing an analysis.
How far do you go with your analysis?
What are your motives for going there, right?
My history with the Serapium goes back to 1995.
And in 1995, I went to Egypt on the invitation of Graham Hancock and Robert Baval.
Graham was in the finishing stages of his book, The Fingerprints of the Gods.
And I had read Robert Baval's book, The Orion Mystery.
And in that book, he had described Ganton Brink's exploration of the sun's shape.
So I was very interested in that, very excited about that.
And so I sent a letter to Robert via his publisher and enclosed a copy of my article, Advanced Machining in Ancient Egypt,
which appeared in Analog Science Fiction, Science Fact, August 1984.
It appeared as a fact article, by the way.
That was nice.
Congratulations.
Not science fiction.
Not pseudoscience, me?
No, no, no.
And so that's another story.
Maybe we could talk about that.
But anyway, you want to talk about the Serapium.
Then one day after, yeah, I went over there.
They interviewed me in the King's Chamber.
And then the following day, they were off to film in the Serapium.
And I met a guy there.
His name was Robert McKenty.
And he was a Canadian who was doing some research for a website that he had developed.
It was an educational thing.
I think it was Sonship.com, I think was the name of it.
So anyway, he suggested that we get a taxi.
He wanted to show me an artifact at Sakari.
He wanted to get a taxi out.
And then after he showed me that, he thought that maybe I would proclaim it to have been a very precise machined artifact.
So I looked at it and I said, no, it's not conclusive.
And so after that, we said, well, Graham and the lads are over at the Serapium.
Why don't we just head on over there?
Okay.
So we went over to the Serapium and they were filming in Subpart.
And I walked down one of the underground passageways.
And I'm looking around and this is my first experience seeing the Serapium.
And I'm just like blown away.
Never knew it existed before, never heard of it.
And so I had with me, I had what we call in the shop, a lot of machinists out there will recognize it.
It's a parallel, just a six inch parallel that you use in machining vices for machining vices.
Is this thing, it looks like a ruler with a T on the top of it?
No, no, it's just a parallel.
Just a straight piece of steel.
Okay.
Very precise edges, I mean, you know, to within about two, ten thousandths of an inch.
Oh, wow.
So it's fairly close.
Pretty straight.
Right, pretty straight.
And so I jumped down into one of the crypts, the column crypts.
But the interesting thing about these crypts is that they're about three, three and a half, four feet below the surface, the floor of the tunnel.
Right.
Right.
And then these boxes that weigh probably 70 tons.
The box is about 13 feet long, seven and a half feet wide, about eight feet high.
It's recessed into a recess in the floor.
So, you know, the floor was actually dug out and these boxes were dropped down into the script and then inserted into these recesses.
Very interesting.
So while there, I just went to the, I was on the outside of it and I put the parallel up against the surface of the granite and I was like, wow.
You know, I spent many, many years and hours checking parts, using gauges, working with granite surface plates in manufacturing.
Okay.
And granite surface plates, they have their own specifications.
You have, you know, machine is great, tool room grade, inspection grade, laboratory grade.
Generally, you know, you're looking at one 10,000 of an inch precision for an inspection grade and surface plate.
And generally, those, those tolerances are given as per foot.
So you can accumulate a top, you know, a variation over a large surface plate.
There's more than that.
And so I'm looking at this and the feel of it is just like I'm back home, right, in the shop with and sliding it on a granite surface.
Right.
And so I was like, wow, that's unexpected.
That was, that was very unexpected.
It blew me away.
Wow.
You don't normally find that, right?
Right.
I was, I mean, you know, it's just like this is a totally out of place artifact.
I didn't know the ancient Egyptians were holding tolerances like this, even over a six inch.
Right.
Area, right, very small area.
And so I thought, oh man, well, Robert, Robert was an engineer.
And I yelled, hey, Robert, come over here.
You got to see this.
And I said, oh, and the producer was, his name was Ro Luster.
He was with Netherlands TV.
And he said, oh, we're filming.
Shut up.
Get up.
Go away, boy.
Actually, I don't know where they were.
They weren't near me, but they heard me, obviously.
And so I was like, okay, so anyway, that was interesting.
And I left there with a desire to revisit in the future.
Right.
And it was just brief, like, you know, I may have been like five minutes looking at that
and taking a quick check, you know, wiping off the granite and saying, well, that's impressive.
Then I went back to Egypt in 1999.
And I wanted to go back into the Serapium, right?
And there was a, I was talking to a business guy at the hotel where I was staying.
I said, I need to get in the Serapium.
Is there any way you could get me in there?
And he says, oh, I think I can do that.
I have some connections.
Tomorrow night, we'll make arrangements.
Okay.
So following night, I'm there, you know, ready to go.
And no, it's impossible.
It's dangerous.
It's close to the public.
Well, what's the problem?
Oh, there's a lot of water and a danger of falling rocks from the ceiling.
Oh, really?
Where's the water coming from?
I wonder.
But I didn't press that.
So anyway, that year, I was unable to go.
I had improved my data collection tools.
So I didn't have a 12 inch, I mean a 6 inch parallel.
I had a 12 inch straight edge.
It was ground flat to within one 10,000th of an inch.
Okay.
Right.
And I also had a tool maker's square that was ground, that was precise to within, it
was calibrated to within 50 million.
So about half of that, right?
Wow.
Yeah.
So fairly accurate.
Okay.
It'll do.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Got enough for horseshoes and darts, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So then the opportunity came in 2000, what to go back in 2001.
And that's when, you know, I went with, with Gail Fallon, who was the field director for
Grizzly Adams up to Zae Hoase's office.
And he gave us permission to, to go.
He rolled us a note to give to the, the director of the, of Sakura.
We went and visited with him.
We had coffee or tea rather.
And then we walked down to the seraphim and he let us in.
It was a very, very short visit because I didn't want to become too much of an interference
with his day.
Right.
Well, let's put it that way.
He was there.
He was in attendance and he was observing.
Okay.
At the time.
Right.
And so I got into the, into the one box that had the, the side had been blasted open.
And you know, it's probably the only one that had a corner that was missing on it.
And you could crawl in there.
Could you put my feet up there?
Yeah.
Right.
It's amazing that he's just got like the keys to all these, these amazing.
Right.
Ancient places.
And he's the one who can let you in.
He's the only one with the key.
It's so interesting.
Right.
Oh, wow.
So, okay.
Is this one solid piece of granite?
Yes.
The, the box itself is crafted out of one solid piece of granite and the lid weighs about,
probably weighs about 25, 28 tons.
It's huge.
And so with that square, I pressed it up against the, the underside of the lid and, and up
against the inside wall.
Were there any gaps?
No.
There, there was like no, no gaps.
I mean, I'm not saying it was as precise as that instrument.
It was just a visual observation.
Right.
Anybody who has done any kind of scaled or precision work who looks at that photograph
will be astounded by what they're seeing because what, what you're looking at are two surfaces
that are parallel to each other and a flat lid that spans the two, the width of the box.
Right.
So.
What caused the corner to break off like that?
I wonder.
I think it was, they dynamited it or something like that.
But, you know, the, the, the things that are missing from the archeological record is,
it's not just the, the means to, to do the cutting and hollowing out of the box, but also
the means to inspect it and measure it to within that kind of level of precision.
Even though it may not be perfect and it has, may not be perfect throughout, I do put a
qualifier in my book that the entire surface needs to be scanned and analyzed completely.
Now, I'm, I'm at Adley, who was an Egyptian engineer, went into the Serapim to check me
out and he measured the one box.
He was using a digital or a laser distance measure and then a digital square.
I'm not a big fan of digital squares because of the electronics.
They tend to drift and you have to, you have to be able to calibrate them.
And generally you would use a, you'd use a square like that to calibrate a digital square.
Do you have any wild ideas to what the purpose of these boxes were?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
It's in my book.
Let's hear it.
Wild.
Too wild.
I love wild.
The wilder, the better.
I'm not finished here yet.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Let's keep going.
Okay.
So I think overall my time spent in there was probably 10, 15 minutes, something like
that.
Ah, he's saying when he said, when he saw you squaring that up like that, was he?
Oh, he wasn't with me.
Oh, he said he went, he went there with you.
No, no.
He stayed back at the Giza plateau in his office.
Is everything okay, Stephen?
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So anyway.
And look at that too.
Above your hand on the left photo, the reflection of your hand.
Exactly.
That's wild.
Right.
So this is an ancient artifact.
How would we recreate this today?
Did you talk to any of these big granite manufacturers and ask them their thoughts on this thing?
Well, I contacted four granite, precision granite manufacturers and these companies make granite
surface plates and other precise objects like V blocks, squares, angle plates and things
of that nature.
Okay.
Also, machine beds for variety of machine tools, optical beds and stuff like that.
You know, granite is very stable as long as you maintain the correct temperature.
And so the only company that responded to my request was a company called True Stone.
True Stone.
Yeah.
And they said that they don't have, they didn't have the means to create one out of a solid
piece.
Meaning they would use five separate pieces and bolt them?
Yeah, five separate pieces and bolt them together.
And you said the material costs would be, I mean, white, I think they said white granite
would be like $175,000 and then they would be Department of Transportation costs would
be extremely expensive.
$50,000.
Right.
But the, you know, just the fact that they would not make it out of a solid piece because
if you go to start making these out of solid pieces, then the time for material removal
increases and the difficulties, like even the corners, you're looking at a very, very
small radius.
It's about five-thirty seconds of an inch radius in the corners.
And so there's a lot of consideration when you're looking at a piece like that.
But the, I started to, actually, I think it was 2013 I was there, and I started to explore
other parts of the interior.
And I noticed that at the bottom, the precision seemed to fall off a little bit.
On the floor of this thing?
Yeah, near the floor of it.
So there was a, it was obvious that, you know, that the box was not 100% throughout precise
or within, I don't know, the tolerance of that gauge or close to it.
Right.
So even if you say, okay, given that the gauge is $50,000,000, let's say that the accuracy
of the surface is one-two-thousandths of an inch, which, you know, if it was, you would
definitely see light coming through.
One-two-thousandths of an inch.
Oh, one or two-thousandths of an inch.
That's like a human hair?
It's like a human hair, the thickness of a human hair, which is fairly close.
It's still, it's still extremely precise.
Yes.
And not what you would expect from a primitive culture or an underdeveloped industry or a
culture.
There's probably nothing in this room that's that precise.
Oh, no, no, there isn't.
Not even a lap, like a MacBook Pro or like a TV.
Do you think that TV is one-one-millionth of an inch or what was it, one-one-thousandth
of an inch square?
I don't know, it could be.
Tell me what this was for.
I'm not telling you that yet.
Okay.
Hold your horses.
I'm antsy.
So anyway, here's the thing.
We talked earlier about the demands on a manufacturer when they are creating aircraft
pumps, for instance, right?
There's no faking or fudging measurements.
You can't do it.
You don't do it.
You don't do it or people die.
Right.
If you do it, people die.
Yeah.
Right?
If you do it, you will get fired.
Tremendous consequences.
Tremendous consequences.
It costs a lot of money, a lot of money.
So basically what they're saying is that I went into the Serapium and I faked and fudged
measurements, but because in other parts of the box, they didn't find the same precision.
Right?
The two really don't compute.
I'll tell you why.
Okay.
You go into any manufacturing plant.
I could show, I could take you to the manufacturing plant that I worked at and I could take you
through the shop and I could show you parts and you wouldn't, you'd look at them and you
wouldn't recognize what was precise and what was not.
Right?
But I could say, okay, I'll point to a part, a feature on the part and I'll say this is
very precise.
Right.
This area is not, but it's to the customer requirements.
Right?
Right?
Of course.
It's kind of like, if you look at a, for instance, you look at a camshaft in an engine, right?
You have the, you have the throws and you have the webs and the counterweights, the counterweights
are forged.
Right.
Most times they don't machine the forging for the throws, for the counterweights, but
say you will machine the throws where the pistons are mounted to, right?
Those have to be precise.
Right.
So that's an example of parts that has, have non-precise areas and very precise areas.
Yes.
Yes.
Also, even on a finished part, you may have different requirements for different, different
areas of the part.
You may have dimensions that have to be within two, ten thousandths of an inch.
You may have dimensions that have to be within ten thousandths of an inch, all right?
Does the fact that ten, a ten thousandth of an inch variation from true form defines
the whole part and be the respective precision?
Right.
And do you ignore the two ten thousandths of an inch precision that has been machined
into it and say that the part is no good?
Right.
Yeah.
So we're like in an airplane, for example, all this, all the little tiny parts inside
of the turbine are probably extremely precise, but the joystick inside the cockpit probably
is nowhere near.
Oh.
Well, that's, yeah, that's comparing apples with, I don't know.
It's all one thing, right?
Right.
Yeah.
It's a part of the airplane.
Yeah, I know.
I'm sorry.
That was a bad analogy.
I tried.
Yeah, but I'm talking about the same part.
Okay.
We're looking at the same.
You're talking about one piece.
Yeah.
And at the same part, all the features are integral and they're contingent with the same
material.
Okay.
I see.
I see.
Yeah.
Okay.
So here we go.
We haven't talked about what the purpose of these boxes is yet.
You know what the purpose is, or what my speculated purpose is, it's in my book.
Yeah.
This is a podcast.
We need it from the horse's mouth.
Can you tell the audience what your speculated purpose is, or are you going to keep that
a secret, or make them by the book?
If you want to make them by the book, that's fair.
No, they don't have to buy the book.
I mean, they can go to the library.
Eventually it'll end up in holster.
Okay.
Oh, they can download a pirated coffee from Google, or like most people.
So you really don't want to say it?
It's not my theory, so I think...
Whose theory is it?
Eric Wilson.
Eric Wilson.
Yeah.
Is he the airspace engineer?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He came up with a brilliant idea.
We were down in the tunnels, 2018 and 1918, no, 19, and he came up with the idea that
they were used for growing crystals.
The aerospace engineer thinks that the boxes were used to grow crystals.
Right.
How?
Good question.
So, you know, when you hear of something like that, and it doesn't quite settle right
away, I can tell it's not settling with you.
Not at all.
Not at all.
You are like...
But I can guarantee you I'm a lot dumber than him.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's pretty safe guarantee.
No offense.
Thanks.
So, yeah, and I thought that was an interesting idea.
And I kind of expanded on that in my book, but the other interesting thing is related
to manufacturing, right?
So you go through the tunnels and you'll find boxes in different stages of manufacturing.
Some are roughed in like they may have been created like that in a quarry before they
were shipped or they could have been loaded and worked on as they were in transit or something
like that.
We don't know.
But there's one box that's stuck down one of the tunnels that has a rough interior,
but it's fairly regular in terms of its orthogonality squareness.
I mean, even though the surfaces are definitely rough, you can see that, you know, it's probably
may have maybe a half inch of material to remove to the final finish and dimensions.
We don't know.
This is...
It's just speculating.
This is evidence that those things would have been finished inside?
Yes.
And I make that observation in the Geyser Power Plant, too, is that one of the things about
granite is that it's affected by heat.
How so?
Oh, it'll move and change.
It's very sensitive to heat.
When they finish a granite surface plate, oh, actually, before they do, the manufacturer
will rough machine a piece of granite and then they'll store it outside.
And they may finish it to within, well, maybe five, 10,000 or a couple of thousand, I don't
know.
But it'll sit outside and it may be out there for several seasons and, you know, it goes
through hot season, cold season, hot season.
So with every change in temperature, the granite changes.
And before they, when they get an order for that size piece of granite, they'll bring
it inside and let it normalize back to temperature.
And it assumes the same precision that it was machined to before it was put outside
in the yard.
And then they, yeah, so it has a kind of a memory.
So they bring it in and then they'll finish it, finish the machine and lap it and basically
make sure, you know, to whatever grade they're maintaining on it.
So it's, granite is very sensitive to heat.
It's also sensitive to light, or at least we think it's sensitive to light.
John Bartow, who was a precision granite manufacturing resurfacer and a calibrator, he has a company
in Ohio.
And I met him when I was working in Indianapolis and we had a conversation about granite, precision
granite surface plates.
And he was telling me about one shop that he went into and the piece of granite, the
granite surface plates that they had had developed a crown in the middle of it.
Come to find out, the reason why he'd had that slight crown in the center is because
they had a single light bulb over the top of it.
Right?
Wow.
Now, there's no information on how much, you know, how many watts that light bulb was
or, you know, how much heat, there's no real scientific analysis of why that was, but that
was the conclusion that it was because of that light bulb.
The light?
Mm-hmm.
Do we know how close that light bulb was to the granite surface?
Nope.
No.
Don't know.
Okay.
But I just found that to be an interesting observation and point to make.
Yeah.
And even with regular tool steel, when you are creating precision artifacts to within
10ths, right?
10,000s of an inch, two 10,000s of an inch, you're generally, temperature is your worst
enemy, depending on the geometry of the piece that you are cutting.
So if you are working on a very large ring and you're grinding an inside diameter or
outside diameter, and you're working in a shop with the temperatures like 90 degrees
or over 90 degrees, and then it goes into an inspection department where they're maintaining
68 degrees Fahrenheit temperature, it will shrink, right?
Right.
And generally, you know, a lot of times they will, when you're grinding a block on a surface
grinder, and you want to, you're measuring that block and comparing the dimension with
a known gauge like a geoblock, the column geoblocks there, gauge blocks.
But these are a collection of gauges that are like square pieces of metal of a specific
thickness.
They are hardened steel and very precisely ground to a standard of measure that is traceable
back to the National Bureau of Standards.
One of the techniques, tricks that you use when you're grinding something that you want
to gauge it against one of those geoblocks is you may put the geoblock on the magnetic
chuck on the surface plate as you are grinding the object that you want to measure against
it.
So what you're doing then is you are actually putting that geoblock in the same conditions
of temperature as the object that you're grinding, so they are the same temperature.
So if there's any changes in the geoblock in terms of size, whether it's, you know,
micron differences, when they are sent to the inspection department, then in like a
68 degree temperature, both the geoblock and the piece of steel you just ground will reduce
back to the correct size, so they can still be compared the same.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, that makes sense.
Right.
So in a grinder you would run a coolant on it, so you're actually flooding the geoblock
at the same time you're flooding the piece that you're grinding.
Right.
Right.
So, yeah, finishing the boxes on the ground rather than outside would be necessary if your
intention is to create extreme precision and hope that that precision will remain and be
put to use.
Right?
Mm-hmm.
So here's the other thing.
I was thinking previously that the boxes were finished underground, but they weren't
installed in the crypts.
Now it seems that they installed them in the crypts before they finished them, because
you find unfinished boxes inside crypts and semi-finished, right?
Okay.
So three stages of manufacturing, you've got the rough finish or forge finish or cast
finish, quarried finish, then rough machining where the material is removed to bring it
closer to the final dimensions and then final finishes where the final accuracy is cut into
it.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So...
Go ahead.
So that's one thing, that having, finishing those boxes to that precision and then making
sure that they stay precise as an objective, they seem to be accommodating by doing them
in situ.
Right.
So going back to the crystals, how would they have grown crystals inside of those boxes
as he speculated?
And for what purpose?
Well, he didn't elaborate on that, but I did in my book.
But it was, it's where you kind of have to stretch your imagination a little bit.
Okay.
I'm always open to stretching my imagination.
Right.
Do you ever read Engines of Creation?
No.
Oh, it's a great book.
I'll write it down and make a note.
No, seriously, it is very futuristic.
I love that.
We are not there yet.
Definitely not there yet.
It's a wild, out there, futuristic sci-fi theory.
It is super, super sci-fi, super wild.
And you think about going out on a limb and having it chopped behind you while you're
out there.
This is one of those times when I'm feeling like I'm way out on a limb.
So you think by talking about this out there theory that people will be able to use that
to discredit you for your other work?
Like I'm not already discredited.
Right, exactly.
Right.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, my enemies will love it.
They will, oh my God, it'll be like feeding them red meat.
So were these crystals used for the Solid State Electron Harvester Pyramid?
Well, it's hard to say.
I would say that there are more futuristic and advanced applications for the process
if you can develop it.
And that is the crystal growth of rocket engines, jet engines, advanced materials using nanotechnology.
The crystal growth of rocket engines, jet engines, and nanotechnology.
Using nanotechnology.
Using nanotechnology.
Yeah, Drexler talks about what he calls them universal assemblers.
These are nanomachines, right, that assemble products one atom at a time.
And so basically they are used to, he said that using this technology in the future you
could grow a rocket engine that would have like 10% of the mass of a current rocket engine.
You could grow it.
Grow it, yeah.
Okay, I have no fundamental baseline idea of where this is even coming from.
We're not even talking like quantum computers or anything here.
We're on another limb, on another branch.
Yeah.
So when you look at the, when you look at the boxes in the therapy, when you're looking
on the inside of the boxes, you have the upper part of the box, which is fairly flat.
Right.
When you look on the side of the lid, it's fairly flat.
You've got, you know, specific dimensions.
They may vary a little bit, but essentially you could look at that assembly, one of the
boxes with the lid on top as a Cartesian coordinate system.
A Cartesian coordinate system.
Yeah.
What is that?
Well, that's where you have a precise, a precise location to reference when you are in three-dimensional
space.
Okay.
You got your X, Y, and Z.
Right.
Right.
And so if you have, if you know where you need to be in that three-dimensional space,
and you can reference a precise surface in that three-dimensional space, or three surfaces,
then you can, you can figure out where you are in three-dimensional space.
Three surfaces.
Yeah.
X, Y, and Z.
Sorry, but you've got, you've got.
That means you would need six surfaces though, right?
You've got five surfaces to work from.
Yeah.
Wouldn't you need top, bottom, left, right from the back?
Don't need the bottom.
Why don't you need the bottom?
Top.
Top defines the Z.
It's science fiction-y.
You know.
Yeah.
I didn't take the book as being a, you know, a futuristic science fiction look at the future,
because one of the things that I do discuss in the book is the, you know, the validation
of the UAPs, and the, you know, these craft that perform amazing miracles of flight.
Yeah.
What's more science fiction-y than that?
Yeah.
That is real.
That's happening in our airspace, right?
Exactly.
But 10 years ago, you'd be laughed out of a room for talking about that.
You would.
On a TV show.
Definitely.
I wouldn't talk about it.
I've never talked about UFOs.
Right.
Ever.
But when you, when you see, when you see that kind of performance in, in our airspace,
and not just in America, but other countries around the world, it's like, okay.
It is, it is possible that civilization will develop to the point where we could match
that performance, right?
And have craft that perform in a similar manner.
But we've got a lot of, a lot of discovering to make, right?
We need to be able to control gravity and we need to have an alternate system for propulsion.
You don't see afterburners kicking in on those jets when they, on those tic-tacs when they
shoot off at impossible speeds and turn on a dime, right?
But the interesting thing about that is too, if you, the recent evidence that has come
out points to the fact that dark programs within the US government have been working
on this since the thirties.
So if you take the fact that they've been keeping it secret, if they have been since
the thirties, not keeping it in public light, keeping it dark, if they were to look into
something like the pyramids and the possibility of the Great Pyramid being a solid state
electron harvester, wouldn't they keep that dark too?
I doubt they would keep that in the public.
They would not keep that research open source.
I mean, all those are unknown and, you know, I hear lots of speculation and conspiracy theories
and I just have to ignore them really because there's no answer to it right now.
It's just like the UFOs, you know.
I mean, they were largely discounted and ignored.
So then the governments suddenly walk up to the fact that, hey, these things exist and
then they have hearings on Capitol Hill about them and, you know, it's like, wow,
times are changing.
You know, it's like there's a huge shift.
Right.
Right.
But the thing, like, to be able to get to where you've got, to get as far as you've got
with your theory on the Giza power plant harvesting electrons from the igneous rock underneath
the earth and being a massive free energy generator, you have to, you can't start at
that.
You have to start in a science fiction world first and then you start with a big granite
block and you have to chisel away your statue to figure out and test it against different
things to figure out the real life possibilities of it or the real life, the real practical
implications of what that would be and the way that we would put that to use on earth.
Right?
You can't just start with the answer.
So when you say, yeah, right?
Right.
Like the same thing with the UFOs.
Yeah, absolutely right.
I mean, everything needs to, I mean, all the subsystems need to be built and checked out
and perfected.
I mean, there is definitely a strong indication and evidence in, on the Giza plateau that
when they designed and built the King's Chamber, they tested it out before it, before it was
installed in the Great Pyramid.
So the technology that they installed was tested outside of the Great Pyramid.
They have what they call these trial passages on the east of the Great Pyramid and basically
what they, what they have is like the beginning of a, of a grand gallery.
Right?
There's a descending passage and then a vertical shaft that goes to the bottom of a grand gallery
that goes up and then it's like, it comes out of the open.
And so when you look at those trial passages and the same dimensions that you find inside
the Great Pyramid, they were, they were measured by William Flanders Petrie and the, and they're
in his book, Pyramids and Temples of Giza.
So, you know, when you consider any, any kind of development on, on technology, you, you
prove out each system and subsystem before you put them together.
So there are some things that are fairly well known and simple, such as the creation of
hydrogen, but the, the function of the Great Pyramid and the, you know, the balance and
tuning of all that granite to work harmoniously and in resonance with input vibrations.
That's, that's something that you would want to test out and tweak.
Right.
Let's talk about the Petrie core.
You want to do that?
Yeah.
Now you were the first, you, you were one of the first people to get your hands on this
Petrie core and measure out the grooves around the edge of it and run a string along it and
determine that it was actually a spiral groove, not just horizontal grooves.
No.
Actually, William Plendor's Petrie was the first.
Right.
Right.
I thought it was called Chris Dunn's core number seven.
Yeah.
No, it's not.
Petrie core number seven.
Yeah.
I, I really, I really caused a stir with that, didn't I?
So I was writing the Giza power plant and, and like I said earlier, a friend of mine recommended
that I submit an article to Analog Magazine, which I did and it was published in 84.
So that was called Advanced Machining in Ancient Egypt.
And in that, in that article, I referenced the Petrie core and relayed what Petrie wrote
about it, that it was a, a tapered core came out of a hole presumably that exists in the
valley temple and that it had a spiral groove that the grooves were 100,000 distance apart
and that he, he rounded, he checked like four turns of it and claimed that it was a true
spiral.
And he also said that the groove was cut deeper in the quartz as it was the fell spiral.
Okay.
So when I was trying to figure out, you know, using my machinist toolmaking background,
what kind of technology could be, could create those kind of features, I proposed that, that
perhaps they had used ultrasonic machining because ultrasonic machining is not, you wouldn't,
it's not like a conventional type machining where you know, conventional drilling of granite
as I learned from a, an ultrasonic or a conventional granite manufacturer, Rahn granite in Ohio.
They conventional drilling holes, the penetration rate was like two 10,000s of an inch per revolution
of the drill.
Two 10,000s of an inch per, okay.
Per revolution.
So if you, yeah, if you look at 100,000s per revolution, that's like 500 times greater
than the, the conventional drilling.
Okay.
It's an impossible feed rating granite.
So.
And you, you can figure out the rate by the distance between the grooves.
Yes.
Okay.
Right.
And that's where the controversy began is that I proposed a method that was totally unacceptable,
ultrasonic drilling, which is where you use vibration to impact the granite and remove
material and then advanced the tool into the granite using a screw nut method.
As you can see there with the capstone at the top and you just put pressure on it, moving
it into the granite.
Use a slurry, which will actually do the cutting.
And then there is a taper on the bore and the outside of the, the tube drill.
And that taper, the tube drill will wear as it is penetrating the granite and that is
reflected in the, on the core and the hole as a taper.
Right.
So that's, that was just my idea, just a simple idea.
It received limited attention and, and after the article was published, there was a couple
of protests, one by Elsprague de Camp who objected to it.
He wrote a book called The Ancient Engineers and so he, he claimed that, you know, the
working of stone by the Egyptians is well known, went through the whole list of, you
know, copper, copper tubes and bashing stones and stuff like that.
So I responded to his email and then that was pretty much it.
And then in 1995, I was invited to participate in a message board discussion on Deja News
and there was a guy called Rodney Small who had read my article in 84 and evidently had
become a point of discussion on the Deja News alt archeology, a message board.
So I joined in and that was my first taste of message board discussions.
Wow.
Yeah.
And so after, I don't know, maybe a thousand, thousand or so posts, I, it, it kind of peed
it out.
I don't think anybody changed their position on it.
This was what year?
Roughly?
1995, I think.
Oh.
Yeah.
You've got mail.
You've got mail, right?
Yeah.
The old key.
Yeah.
That was before that probably.
It was actually 95 when I first got online.
Oh, was it really?
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I was on AOL.
I'm still on AOL.
Are you really?
I know.
People look at me strange like that when I say that.
Yeah.
I'm still on AOL.
Good for you.
Still have the same email.
Still holding strong.
I don't know about strong.
Holding.
Okay.
All right.
So then, after that, there was a book published by Chris Ogilvy-Herald and a guy called Larsen.
Oh, I forgot his first name.
I'll think of it.
So anyway, they wrote a book called Geese of the Truth, and in that book they report
on an examination of the core by two people, Reed and Brownlee, who go up to the Peacham
Museum where the core is located.
And they determined that it's not a spiral, that it's a horizontal group.
Okay.
Okay.
So I looked at that, I read that, and I was like, okay, interesting.
It looks like the core is slightly tilted, and that would kind of throw you off when
you're trying to visualize the core, the spirals, and it's, yeah.
So I was still on Petri's side, but I was willing to be proven wrong, right?
But not just with that photograph.
So knowing where the core was, I arranged to go to the Peacham Museum and inspect it
myself.
And so I went to the Peacham Museum, and I wrapped a thread around the core, and I
righted the core, you could see it tilted on the left in the same way that the book
shows it.
And then on the right, I squared it up to the frame, right?
And then in my book, I included this which is a common pipe thread.
It shows you how just a slight tilt on a pipe thread, you can turn a spiral into a horizontal
very easily.
It doesn't take much movement, right?
Simple.
Very simple.
All right.
So there I am at the Peacham Museum, and there I am with my thread.
And I found, well, it's a spiral.
Okay, so...
You followed it the whole way.
Yeah, followed it the whole way.
So I reported on that, and on my website and in message boards, I reported on it.
And then I had, now we don't believe you, you guys could be playing tricks with you and
probably confirmation bias comes into play where you are controlling, more in control
of where the thread goes than the groove.
And I'm like, well, no, that's not the case, but okay, that's the way you feel.
So there was another time that came up, and this was in 2003, I think, yeah, 2003, and
it was with a man who contacted me, his name was Malcolm McClure, he's a geologist, and
he was retired from British Petroleum.
And so he contacted me and said, you know, there's a lot of mysteries discussed, and
you know, there's still two that I haven't quite got figured out, and one of them is
the crop circles, and the other one is the Petrie Corps number seven.
I was like, yes, I haven't figured the crop circles out either.
I'm sorry, you're on the pyramids, you got to get your hands full.
And so he said, and I said, well, we could, we could take a trip to the Petrie Museum
if you like, and you know, I would join you because I, because I'm getting a lot of push
back on my observations, it would be good to have somebody along to do a check themselves.
And he said, sure, that would be great.
So he made arrangements with the museum because what I wanted to do at the same time, I wanted
to have a latex impression made of the outside of the, of the core.
Right.
And you guys did this, you guys both wrapped the core with the string, you guys both found
that it was a spiral groove, right, took video, took pictures.
Right.
So he, he said, well, you know, it would be good if you, if maybe we could just like
take photographs from different angles, different angles around the core and then just stitch
everything together and see what we get.
Too primitive.
And I said, well, okay, so this is what he sent me after he had, he had stitched his
photographs together.
Yeah, that doesn't work.
And it's like, okay, yeah, I don't think that that's not a valid inspection method.
For mechanical, I mean, I would think that it is, would be normal for a geologist to
display a core out of the earth in this manner so that they could study, study it and compare
the entire circumference.
Right here, you see, like this is copied again right here, but I guess you have to do that
to line up the grooves.
Yeah, yeah.
You have to copy it.
So it gets confusing.
It gets very confusing.
So if you recall, we talked about the use of cones inside jet engines.
One of the techniques that is used for creating cones, say you are creating a, you know, a
state or something like that in the old days, or maybe even today, they would create a flat
blank and apply geometry to it.
A manufacturer engineer would get a drawing and it would, it would show the cone in assembly
and as a detail and the, it would have a series of holes that were cut on the outside.
They may also, those holes may be airfoil shaped or they may be round.
And then the engineer would actually unwrap that cone to make a flat blank.
And so by making the flat blank, that they, in the process of unwrapping it, the geometry
of the holes that penetrated changed dimension.
Because as you're looking at it in 2D, right, you're looking at a geometric feature on a
cone in 2D, it's wrapping around in three dimensional space, right, XYZ.
So when you unwrap it, so it's flat, then it changes shape, changes diamond, right.
So that, that is a common thing that was done.
So if you look at a frustrum of a cone, you've got a, a 2D drawing of a frustrum and you
see horizontal lines straight across, right, that's just a regular 2D drawing.
Now when you, when you wrap a cone and you look at the frustrum as a 3D surface and your
focus is on one of those lines that it will appear horizontal, but the lines above and
below will begin to curve as the angle of the cam, you know, the direction of the cam.
So you'll have a radius at the top and a radius at the bottom, right.
Those things happen too.
Okay, so there you go.
After we inspected it, we went to see the director of the museum.
That's your mold right there?
A very nice fellow, Dr. Stephen Quirky.
And I asked him if it would be possible to have a latex impression made.
And so, yeah, I paid him the required amount to have it done and he had it done and sent it to me.
So there it is.
The latex had split at the end, so what I did is I actually created two reference holes.
There were those squares that were cut in it and then I cut the line between them.
Okay.
Right.
So the objective was to lay it out flat and then inspect the lines to see if they
were horizontal or spiral.
Okay.
So the horizontal groove would start at one place and end at the other place, right.
And start at this same place.
Yes, exactly.
Right, so.
I see.
It's not ending, it's ending lower.
It's, yeah, I mean it's flat, but it's ending where it started.
So it's a spiral?
If it's spiral, then it's not going to end at the same location that it starts.
Right.
Right, makes sense.
So then I laid out the flat blank, I squared it up and I started to see the general kind
of sweep of the arc and I mean you could stare at that for an hour.
The right side of the spot, the right side of the line is higher than the left side of
the line.
Exactly.
Right.
So it is a spiral?
So it is a spiral.
That means this thing was cored out of a piece of granite using one of these,
what are the machines called again?
It was a machine.
Yeah, it was some kind of technology.
I, you know, really I don't think it was ultrasonics.
I backed off on that.
You backed off on, you don't think it was ultrasonics?
Right, because of some of the other features on the cone.
But it was a machine?
Well, it would have, yeah, I mean they were, they were an employee in a technology.
They certainly wasn't done with a copper tube and quartz sand.
Right, absolutely not.
Because you won't get those penetration rates, right?
Now, what about the edges of the grooves?
You said, you mentioned that they were very smooth, was that because they're not very sharp grooves.
Now, is that just weathering in like thousands of years of degradation?
You know, the thing is, is that it's really, really unusual.
The features on it are bizarre, really.
And yeah, and it's forgivable to be a little confused by what you're looking at.
So, when you, when you look at a like a 10 power close-up of the grooves on the latex,
you can see where there's all kinds of variations and stuff going on.
There are runs between the grooves that are almost vertical in places,
somewhat at 45 degrees, you know, I mean it's kind of like.
Yeah, it's all over the place.
This area right here, this one right here, this one right here, that one here.
And so, you know, it's kind of like, yeah, it's a mess.
And making sense of it is very difficult, right?
It's chaos.
It's chaos.
So, how do you sort it out?
Right.
I mean, you know.
And then, of course, the work that is, that is cited for the true method that was supposedly
used to create these is Denny Stocks, who did some experiments.
And he wrote a report in his book and also some articles that he'd written that the
horizontal striations were similar to the ancient ones on Rose Granite.
But he does not, anywhere in his book or articles, he does not talk about
Petricorne number seven, nor does he display an image of Petricorne number seven, right?
He ignores it completely when he says they're horizontal.
And that's what people are relying on.
It's Denny Stocks testimony, right?
Because it fits their narrative.
The other thing was, I emailed Dennis and I asked him if he had a
clearer picture of his call that I could have, because the one in his book is not very clear.
I was wondering if he could send me a clearer picture.
And he basically said, no, he's not going to send me it.
Oh, wow.
And, you know, just make your own.
So I did.
That was rude.
Yeah, that was, no, I wouldn't say.
Yeah, he was just, yeah.
I don't think he likes me.
I don't blame him.
So, going back to the smoothness of it, do you think there's any evidence that this,
the stone was heated up and made soft and softer?
You see, that I think, as a preliminary matter, is the first thing that you think about when
you look at a polished surface is that how did it become polished?
Was it, was it through polishing?
Was it through, it certainly was and not through grinding with sand and carpet.
Right.
Because that's the core that I made.
And to the right of it is the core that Dennis Stocks made.
And those surfaces are not polished, right?
Right.
So then the question becomes, how was the, how did the Petrie core receive its polish?
Right.
And considering that you do have those weird runs from, you know, one of the grooves to the next,
you know, it seems like it's a really, I don't know,
not, not precise, I would say, but really quick and dirty way to sink a hole in the granite.
And it may have involved a means of softening the stone, maybe even melting it locally.
That's the first thing I thought of when I saw this.
Really?
When Ben showed me these vases for the first time,
I thought that they had been melted and thrown on a wheel.
Because that's what it looks like, right?
It looks perfectly symmetrical.
It is perfectly symmetrical.
Well, I mean, it was on a wheel, but for sure.
Maybe not melted though.
I don't know.
Are we talking about this now or are you, are you ADD or something?
We're still on the core.
So we're talking about, okay, they could, they could have been heated up or possibly melted at
that spot.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
And there's a hole, I hope I right, that's the hole in the valley temple that they speculate it came
from.
There's no, no way to know for sure.
Wow.
Whether that's the one.
But that's the hole that I made and the core that came out of it on the bottom.
Right.
Wow.
Okay.
So then there was an article published by some, a Russian research group and they had
done kind of like a debunking article on, on my work in Petri's work.
And they had essentially photographed the core at various places around it and then stitched
it together and came up with a, a surface and grooves that looked like that.
Okay.
So it was, this was performed by a professional geologist and mineralogist P. Cellevanov.
The article is you can actually Google seventh of Petri rather than copy in that,
that URL into your search bar.
Yeah.
But you'll, you'll be able to read, read the whole thing.
Okay.
So there's the thing is like, okay, I, I totally get why a geologist would want to examine a
piece like that.
This was featured on a video by a YouTube channel called scientists against myth.
Okay.
Right.
And so anyway, the, the interesting thing is now up to now we had my first examination,
it's a spiral and then Malcolm McClaw who checked it with a thread and found it was a spiral.
And then Eric Wilson visited the museum and he's a crystal guy.
He's crystal guys, the aerospace engineer.
What is he, does he work for a big aerospace company?
Yes, a very big one.
Oh really?
Yes.
Which one?
Do you, can you say or no?
But with that ruin is a job.
What do you get fired?
Eric, you're talking about crystals.
You're fired.
Sorry.
Well, let's say the headquarters are in England.
And he was visiting.
So he went to the Petrie Museum while he was there.
Oh, okay.
We have a video of it.
Oh, you've got the video right here.
Oh, let's, let's transfer to Stephen's computer so we can play this video.
I had the opportunity to go to London and I had some time and I wanted to go to the British Museum
there and the Petrie Museum.
And I learned from you actually that you can't get into the Petrie Museum to see
the good stuff, the Petrie Corps and specific artifacts unless you fill out a request form.
They also have to be credentialed too, right?
You have to have a reason.
You can't just walk in off the street and request pieces from the archive.
You have to have credentials.
Yeah, you have to be, you can be a historian or you can be an engineer.
Knowing the controversy that was surrounded the Petrie Corps.
It's like an interrogation video.
You designed an experiment when you got there to determine whether the Petrie Corps was a
horizontal groove or if they were spiral.
First, it requires more than, you're just, more than just your eye.
You need to have some optics, some high-powered readers.
Right.
Seemed to work the best.
I actually had a jeweler's set with lights, you know, that you could really get down into the,
you can see the material structure.
And then we took a thread and rotated and wrapped around the groove.
And it was definitely a spiral.
It wasn't just me.
It was my colleague.
I'll mention his name, Josh Gere.
Also aerospace engineer.
We both, we both witnessed and wrapped that groove.
So.
You think, and you consider that to be a legitimate way of methodology for determining
whether it's a spiral or...
Yeah, I mean, every, every, we rotated, what's my picture got?
It's probably got 20 wraps.
Yeah.
I mean, there's 20 observations.
Every time you come around and you cross.
Eric basically confirms that it is a spiral.
After a dozen wraps, they were not crossing.
So.
Showing the picture.
Yeah, that's a...
Eric Wilson's put me to sleep.
But yeah, no, I mean it's...
He's an engineer.
Yeah, he's an engineer.
Kind of about have respect.
Well, it's clear.
I mean, I don't think, I couldn't imagine anyone could come up with any sort of real
argument against this, you know, all the stuff that you guys have done to prove it,
that you guys, no one's disproven it, right?
Well, you've got two aerospace engineers.
You've got a manufacturing engineer and you've got a geologist.
Yeah.
Let's show the vase that, so your son was a big part of making this vase, right?
Um, he, the vase belongs to a gentleman from New York.
His name is Adam Young.
And he and Alex met in Egypt and became good friends.
Adam was talking about the collection that he had and he had several of these,
what he called, pre-dynastic vases.
Right.
All right, Alex.
They set up a time to meet in Indianapolis at a company that Alex was working at at that time.
They were a defense contractor and they, he brought his vases and we did some mechanical
inspection on them on the surface, surface plate with a rotary table and indicators to
check run out roundness and flatness and stuff like that.
Right.
So, I was in attendance at the time and, you know, it was like, yeah, this is interesting.
It kind of looks like a, looks like an Egyptian vase, but because it was bought on the antiquities
market, there was always in the back of my mind, there was a question of Providence that might be
an issue with it.
But anyway, Alex was passionate about it.
They suggested that they have it scanned, you know, structured white light scanning,
which they did at a company called Capture 3D.
And for people that don't want that, are curious about seeing those images, we did that with Ben.
He showed all the slides and all the measurements and everything.
You're all up to date then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So essentially that's, that was the path that that took.
And then they went on Ben's program and the STL was made available to a lot of really
interested engineers around the world and different people.
And then there was this one guy in Spain, he's from Denmark, I think, named Mark Vistad.
He did a mathematical analysis and then wrote a paper about it, which was unbelievable.
So there are many interesting features about that vase.
And I'm sure Ben covered it in great detail.
These had to have been made on a computer.
Well, that was the conclusion.
Um, I've always been a little more reserved than that, but I'm not looking at it.
You're reserved?
The guy who says the pyramid, was it a solid state electron harvester?
That's a pretty conservative estimate.
Could be even more sophisticated than that.
What's more conservative?
That or the fact that this was made on the computer?
That is the question.
I guess I will.
I mean, it's all just doesn't fit with the current narrative.
Well, hopefully stuff like this will blow that out of the water.
Well, you know, the thing with this is, is that, okay, admitted,
provenance is a huge issue with this.
And it left Egypt and it sat in a collection, some, some, you know,
oligarch somewhere may have had it in a collection and, you know, he died and his
heirs sold it to an antiquities deal.
And then, you know, Adam bought it.
So provenance is an issue.
The thing about it, though, is that there is one particular feature that I found,
I connected with it.
It was like, it is like an ellipsoid.
The body of it matches an ellipsoid.
And if you read my book, Lost Technologies of Ancient Egypt, I look at the
statuary in Egypt and the use of ellipsoids in many of them, particularly the crowns.
And so that's, that, that was a, a huge thing for me.
But the precision is, it is kind of beyond belief, considering it's like, you know,
cutting granite.
And I'm reading comments on Ben's channel and, you know, machine, I'm a 25 year
machinist, we couldn't do that today and blah, blah, blah.
And he's like, well, we need to find somebody who is able, who thinks they can do it and
have them give us a quote.
So I think that is still an option that we're examining.
But ultimately, the real objective is to say, okay, Egyptian engineers,
there are some of these in your museums in Cairo.
So we encourage you to take the same steps we did and do a metrology examination of them.
On artifacts that have no provenance.
And then all the naysayers and debunkers can go to, go to bed.
Well, Chris, thank you.
I really appreciate you coming through and spending six and a half hours here with me
and talking about all the stuff and your decades of research.
It's truly an honor.
Where can people find your books?
Are they on Amazon?
Yeah, Amazon, all the online bookstores and brick and mortar bookstores.
And what's your website called Giza Power?
GizaPower.com.
Perfect.
Yeah, under construction.
All right.
That's it, folks.
Thanks again, Chris.
You're welcome, sir.
Good night, everybody.
Good night.
