Welcome back, Ben. This is your homecoming.
Good to be back, Denny. Cheers, man. Thanks for the invite.
It was about a year ago. I had you in here.
And then since then, you've been on Joe Rogan, you've been on Flagrant.
What other podcasts have you been on?
There have been a few. I think those were mostly the big-in studio ones.
Yeah.
I was Rogan and Andrew Schultz's Flagrant, which was hilarious, actually.
That was a lot of fun. I was on Rogan with Jimmy.
That was a great opportunity. I enjoyed that, although it's a bit of a blur in my head at this point.
But I've been on a few others, just like Zoom and the remote-style ones.
You were the first guy to... the first in-studio podcast.
Well, cool, man. I'm happy to inspire those guys to discover you.
I know Rogan already knew about you. He'd already seen videos of your stuff.
I think so, yeah.
But you've been all over the place, too. You just got back from Turkey, I think, recently.
Well, Turkey earlier this year, and then England.
I came back from England a couple of weeks back.
First chance to visit sort of the megalithic structures there, the stone circles, the museums, things like that.
So, I mean, you could spend months in the British Isles.
There's so much to see there. I definitely want to go back.
Yeah.
But Turkey earlier in the year.
So what were you doing in Turkey? Where'd you go? You went to Gobekli Tepe?
I did. So we did a couple of weeks in South-Eastern Turkey.
So in that Gobekli Tepe region, like this, it's all centered around the city of Şenlörfa,
which is the biblical Edessa. It's the city of prophets.
It's a city that goes back thousands of years.
I mean, it goes... there's been occupation there since Neolithic times.
It's a really interesting city.
It's sort of Abrahamic traditions there,
that a lot of the legends from books of the faith that now are like Judaism, Islam and Christianity,
a lot of the events that happen in those religions are all centered in that area.
It was part of like the Silk Road, the northern-ish end of what was Mesopotamia back in the day.
So it's an ancient place.
Really interesting city. A lot of fun.
I wasn't sure what to expect. It was my first time in Turkey.
And different to Egypt, I'd say. It was a really nice place.
And the timing was... I don't know what happens with me in travel, man.
I'm trying to even get over here. We had the hurricane.
But man, it just... I have the worst luck with travel because they had...
Obviously, they had the earthquakes.
Earlier in this year, those big earthquakes that...
They killed a lot of people.
I mean, I think the government estimates, they said something like 50,000 people,
the guys that I knew on the ground there who were out like...
My guy there, Ramazan, who we did the tour with, lost his home.
Like his home fell down. He was living out of his car.
But within the next day or two, he was out helping in the villages,
trying to help people to sort of recover from it.
But he said it was probably more like 250,000 people that might have died in that.
Just from... If you include Syria, because it's just...
It's right next to the Syrian border.
And there was a lot of Syria that was affected as well.
But yes, if that happened and they're like, man, we...
Okay, so the city itself of Shanlurfa wasn't...
The infrastructure was still up. The roads were okay.
Like a few buildings fell down. Some of the other cities were much...
Were impacted much more.
And then they had these rains.
They had these floods, which were almost unprecedented floods in that region.
It just poured down.
And there were people that died in Shanlurfa purely because they were...
They didn't have anywhere to live and they were in these tents.
And they got sort of washed into these alcoves and carried away in these floods.
And a bunch of people died.
So I was like, man, and all this happened within the couple of weeks.
And I guess around the month leading up to it.
So we were like, geez, are we going to do it?
And he was like, yeah, we can do it.
And we sort of reassured the people that were coming with us.
We can make it happen.
And we did. Unfortunately, obviously places like the museum,
they had this wonderful museum in Shanlurfa where a lot of the artifacts from
Gobekli Tepe, Karahan Tepe, like all of the recent archaeological finds there,
a house in this museum.
But they had to evacuate it because of the floods.
They basically boxed up, I don't know, like 100,000 artifacts or something
and shipped them off so we couldn't get into the museum.
But also as a consequence, it did make the place green.
Like normally if you see pictures of that region, it's brown,
but we were there.
It was just breathtakingly beautiful.
Like these limestone hills were just breaking out in wild flowers and grass.
And everywhere we went, it was just gorgeous.
And of course, the sites there are just incredible.
They go back forever.
There's Gobekli Tepe, which was everyone, I think, who is interested in this field,
should know something about Gobekli Tepe.
It's the site that was, I mean, it was originally discovered in the 1950s, I think.
There were some farmers that they saw some, the tops of what it turned out to be
these big tea pillars sticking out of the ground on this side of a hill.
I think it translates to Potbellied Hill in that language.
And they sort of dismissed it as being, they thought,
well, no, this is a relatively modern cemetery or something like it.
It's not a, you know, it's not that stonework was too good to be considered very ancient.
And it wasn't until the mid-1990s when the German Archaeological Institute
and Klaus Schmidt, who sadly has passed away since then, began to excavate at Gobekli Tepe.
And that's when they found, okay, yeah, so this is actually tremendously ancient.
It does have some very unique stonework, including megalithic work.
You've got, you know, tea pillars that are 18 feet tall and 20 plus tons.
And it's a very large site.
It's all of these stone circles, these pillars that are encompassed by more of a loose or a rough stone walls.
And it spreads out, it's quite large.
There's a number of them.
They've only excavated maybe 10% of that site.
And it shook the world up because they based on some of the material that they found in that dig,
they pretty much conclusively dated that thing to about 11,000 years old,
which is much older than any previously recorded, you know, evidence of civilization or of this type of occupation.
So going there was a really interesting experience.
People have said for a long time that it was deliberately buried.
The work and the research and the science on this is slowly changing.
They're starting to move away from this idea that it was deliberately buried.
It may just have been layers of sediment that have built up over time.
There might have been some periods of burying.
In fact, if you tried to bury it deliberately, it would have taken years and years and years.
It's a huge site.
But what's interesting to me, you know, researching this site is that if you look at the picture of it,
this is a good picture of it.
I have some photos too, but this works.
You have two styles of architecture here.
You have the megalithic work, the tea pillars, and it's not just the pillars here.
They would actually cut down to the bedrock.
You see that area around the tea pillars?
When you go there, it looks like cement.
It's not cement.
It's actually the, I believe, limestone bedrock that they've lapped down to be flat.
So you have these huge, big, flat areas, and they inset these stones into them,
or some of them are set up on pedestals like that central one.
And these tea pillars, a lot of them, they're not all complete.
Some of them are broken.
They have the most amazing high-relief artwork on them.
By that, it means you're carving away the negative space to make the figures and the symbols pop out at you.
Right, right, right.
See, and that's a good example of that image there of that one stone.
Yeah, if you look at that, so you see how the walls, the walls around it kind of encompass those stones?
Like they actually cover up some of the features.
And you can clearly tell the walls seem like they've been built to reinforce these stone circles, to sort of preserve them almost.
And looking at the walls, and this is also true at another site we'll talk about, Karahan Tepe,
inside the walls, there's actually pieces of broken pillars have been used as material in the building of the walls.
And the material or the organic matter that they've used to date the site to give it that 11,000-year-old age came from inside these walls.
So it's like, to me, I look at that, it's two different architectural styles.
I think it is a potentially indicative of two entirely different periods of occupation and building, because these walls are quite primitive.
It's local stone, and they're actually using pieces of broken pillars, which means that those pillars could have been there for who knows how long,
actually fallen over some of them might have broken, and they've been encompassed and used in these walls that were then used to sort of resurrect or renew or renovate the site and protect these pillars.
So do we know if it's 11,000-year-old?
I think that's kind of the earliest date for it, the youngest date.
It could be vastly older than that. We really don't know.
And you said there's a bunch of this that's still under the ground?
Heaps of it, yeah.
So they've kind of excavated on one side of a hill, and that's where the UNESCO World Heritage site is now.
They've put a big cover over the top of it.
It's actually great, like, yeah, you see the walkway there, there's this big.
They want to keep the rain off it, I think, when it does rain, if they left it out in the weather, it'd just get really muddy, and it'd just wash away a lot of the sediment.
It's a great way to view the site. It'd be lovely to get down in there, but they get a lot of traffic.
Like, this has become a major tourist attraction for that part of Turkey now.
A lot of people want to see this, and they've built a big visitor center.
Yeah, so it's a nice way to view the site, and if you have a camera with a zoom lens, you can kind of see a lot of the detail.
Oh, wow, that's incredible. That negative relief.
Yeah, the higher relief.
There's, you know, lots of interesting studies that have been done on Gobekli Tepe.
Martin Sweatman, who I've talked about, he was presenting at the Cosmic Summit recently as well.
I've talked with him on my channel.
He wrote a book called Prehistory Decoded, and he contends that Gobekli Tepe is something of a celestial calendar.
He uses a method of statistical analysis that shows that it's extremely likely that's what it is.
He's looking at the figures relating to, you know, procession and constellations in the sky,
and that when looked at through his analysis, it seems to mark, you know, interesting events that we know sort of happened,
like periods like the Younger Dryas, because this site dates back to the Younger Dryas,
and had there been, you know, this comet or these impacts or these fragments of things coming from the sky,
that's probably something they would have noticed.
He wrote a whole book on this. It's a very interesting theory.
He gets attacked pretty hard on the basis of it, I think, from a lot of people that don't really understand the nature of statistics and how that works.
He actually wrote, there's a peer-reviewed paper that you can read if you're interested in kind of diving into his research or his detail.
There's other studies that have been done also that are interesting on the geometry of the site.
So there's, not only do you have these stone circles, which the circles themselves,
and this is true also at Karahan Tepe, have alignment, interesting alignment.
So they align to, you know, a lot of them may well have been used as solar observatories or potentially lunar observatories.
So there's, you know, there's alignments on the site that point to significant periods,
like solstices, equinoxes, lunar events.
But there's actually a geometric arrangement between the circles themselves at Gobekli Tepe.
So they form like equilateral triangles, I think.
There's been some studies done that shows that there was a very deliberate layout planned of how these stone circles were formed.
So it was fascinating.
So Gobekli Tepe was obviously a highlight, but what I didn't know on this trip was the fact that,
okay, I knew about Karahan Tepe, so that's another site that's nearby.
It's actually very pretty close.
There was a site that was very recently discovered.
It's an active archaeological site now, I believe the University of Istanbul is excavating there.
It's another stone circle site.
It's similar architecture to Gobekli Tepe.
You have huge tea pillars, but it's something like 10 times larger than Gobekli Tepe.
And they've only just sort of scratched the surface at Karahan.
They're still digging and we had special permission to go in there and look around the site.
And you can literally walk, look at these beautiful hills with flowers on them and just poking up everywhere are the tops of tea pillars.
You just see this tiny little top of it and you clearly see it's a tea pillar and there's something buried under here.
And there might be as many as a thousand tea pillars on this site.
It's at least five times or more, I think, larger than Gobekli Tepe.
And it's at least 500 years older based on the dating of material that they found so far,
which it's kind of funny because when they built a visitor center at Gobekli Tepe,
they called it like the zero point in history.
This was the brand name that it gave you.
You go in these big light shows and these, you know, big wall to wall sort of cinematic experiences to look at the site.
But it's like, well, I guess that makes Karahan Tepe zero point minus 500 or something like this.
Right. It's even older.
And I actually was out there like three, four times during the two weeks.
It's a wonderful site.
I could probably even pull up images if we want to see them.
But it's, yeah, they're just starting to excavate and you see a similar thing.
In fact, at Karahan, there's evidence of domiciles.
So this gets one of the controversies about Gobekli Tepe is, is this civilization, right?
Because technically if you go look at, and then I guess this is more along the,
I guess the orthodox line of thinking, the date for civilization hasn't really changed.
We're still saying, well, 6,000 years ago, you know, Sumerians and Mesopotamia, that was the start.
But when I look at a place like Gobekli Tepe or Karahan Tepe,
that screams civilization to me.
The theory is, oh, it's purely ceremonial.
You know, it was, it was what happened.
And this, this sort of came out with the Michael Sherma,
Graham Hancock and Randall Carlson podcast at JRE.
It's a well-known one.
I mean, they've essentially just changed the definition of hunter-gatherers to now not just be,
well, no, this is not just, we're not just out hunter and gathering,
but on the weekends, I guess when the men want to get away from the women and the kids or something,
they'd like to participate in a little bit of megalithic stone building and things like this
and, you know, building these 20 ton tea pillars.
It's insane.
But, you know, there's infrastructure on these sites.
They're massive.
There's systems.
There's quarries.
There are other structures at Karahan Tepe.
There's actually evidence for domiciles and permanent housing,
which is another indication of sort of settlement and civilization.
And I just, I just look at the scale and scope of what is on these sites.
And it's like you, that's not something you do on the side.
Like this is a, this requires specialization, right?
So for people to be able to specialize in doing this type of stonework,
this type of a logistical endeavor, the artwork that's required to carve these things,
you need to have infrastructure around you.
That means there's other people collecting food.
There's other people doing things.
Like it's that organization that essentially defines civilization.
I think just the scale and scope of the work requires that.
So it's, I think it's kind of ridiculous that we don't consider this civilization.
And the nail in the coffin for me, and this is something I learned on that trip,
is that it's not only is there Karahan and Gobekli Tepe,
but there's between 40 and 80 more sites that they've discovered just like that.
Around that area.
Around that area in southeastern Turkey.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a lot of other well-known sites, Sogmatar and other places,
but these Tepe's and these T-pillared stone circles,
they're doing a lot of ground penetrating radar and that type of thing.
And they've discovered somewhere between 40 and 80,
and I think they want to open up like 15 of them for tourism.
And that's like, at that point, you know, it's a huge civilization.
That's a, it requires a big population of people.
And it's civilization.
I mean, it's like a lost chapter of human civilization
that we really know nothing about.
Like we've got some artifacts and we've got some indication,
but it's a, yeah, I mean, it's, to me, it's just a whole lost chapter
of our history in this region.
Who are the organizations involved in doing some of this ground penetrating radar
and like discovering more of these sites?
Well, a lot of it is happening locally with the universities in Turkey.
Oh, okay.
Istanbul, I mean, they're excavating.
I believe it's the University of Istanbul is excavating at Karahan.
Who was doing Gobekli?
Well, German archaeological institute was the one working at Gobekli Tepe.
It's, you know, the way these projects get dealt out
and the way that digs happen and sort of institutions get involved is,
there's no regular process.
It's like a negotiation process.
I assume it's, you know, some academic institution somewhere in the world
wants to go and dig somewhere and it's a negotiation with the government
to get the permissions and then they kind of get to run the site.
Places like Gobekli Tepe, when UNESCO gets involved,
that's a whole other set of things.
You see the same thing in Egypt.
Like there's various, you have the British in one area.
You have, you know, the French in another area.
You have the Germans in another area.
You have the Egyptians themselves doing a lot of work in different areas.
So it's a case by case basis almost about who actually does the work and then publishes.
Certainly in Egypt, any publishing of findings has to be done in close concert
with the Department of Antiquities, formerly the Supreme Council of Antiquities.
So you would, they essentially control the release of information.
So people that have seen things like the recent, you know, scan pyramids project
and that sort of data when they found that new chamber in the great pyramid
and stuck a, you know, like a little camera in there to take a look.
That was all released by the Department of Antiquities in Egypt
in partnership with the people that were actually doing the work.
When did they find a new chamber in the great pyramid?
Oh, you haven't heard this so well.
It's been going on for a couple of years now.
So they, there's been a, the scan pyramids project is what it's called.
They're essentially using muon cosmology.
It's basically cosmic ray detection.
So they put all these sensors and I've seen them a bunch of times
because they, I've been into the pyramid over this period of time, several times.
And down in the subterranean chamber, there's like a rack full of gear
and there's, you know, there's these boxes up on the grand gallery
and in the Queens chamber, like the parts that you can't normally get to,
that average tourist won't be able to get to, you need to like book a special permission to see.
There's a lot of this infrastructure.
And so what they're doing is, is there's these, you know, cosmic rays and muons in this case
are passing through, you know, they pass through material.
They pass through stone and everything like that.
But, but there is a sort of a very slight difference when they,
when they pass through material versus a void.
So they put these detectors in there and they leave them for a couple of years
and they've got them on the outside as well.
So they're measuring it kind of from all these different angles
and putting all that data together and crunching it.
Let's, has let them kind of put together a rough picture
of where they think there are voids inside the pyramid.
Right. So these are like empty spaces.
And, and one of them was a small empty space behind above the main entrance.
And the main entrance is, is above where we go in today.
So today when you visit the pyramid, you go up on that north side and, and you,
and you enter in through what's known as, as a Elmer moons hole or my moons hole.
It's like, it's supposedly been hammered by the Caliph Elmer moon.
And he sort of hammered through the, the limestone superstructure of the pyramid.
And he hit the junction between the ascending and descending passageway.
Okay.
But up above that, and you can see that in the chevron blocks.
So the actual, the, the descending passageway actually goes all the way up to a doorway
that's below those two triangle shaped chevron blocks in that, in that center top picture.
Yeah, that one.
So there's a doorway there.
That's considered the original main entrance to the pyramid.
Now this was all in antiquity still cased over.
So this wasn't visible.
At some point it was certainly opened in antiquity.
It was Elmer moon wasn't the first one in there, but it's actually where the void is,
is above that sort of behind those chevrons.
There's a, there's a small chamber and they, and they either drilled a hole or they found a,
a space where they could stick a little tube in and then put one of those, you know,
little snake cameras in there and they had to look around.
And sure enough, there's this space and it was a big, yeah, this scientist reveal hidden corridor.
I mean, it's, it's, this is this little chamber and it's got these chevron blocks.
It's like those chevron blocks keep going back into the superstructure of the pyramid.
And it doesn't seem to go anywhere, but we don't know that because often these,
some of these passages would be blocked up.
That was certainly the case with the, what the ascending passageway that comes off the
descending passageway has these big granite plug, plug, plug blocks in it.
But the really interesting part of this scan pyramids project is that they found a massive void in the pyramid.
A really large void.
And this is a tiny little space that they've looked at, but in what,
if you've seen the layout of the pyramid in the, in the area above the grand gallery,
it's kind of above, and I think a little bit to the right.
They've, they've found indication for what is just a huge chamber.
Now this, it's something like 40 meters long.
Which one is the grand gallery there?
So it's that, it's that large angled piece on the, on the right.
See the, it's the one that's just to the right of the king's chamber.
It's the angled down, like,
Oh, I see it.
Okay.
Towards the top.
Next.
So the descending passageway is the passageway that goes down to this.
That kind of isn't to scale that picture.
That's not even actually, I don't know.
That's, that's not the architecture for the pyramid.
That's fair.
Osmosis.
That's a completely sort of diff.
Yeah.
That's not the actual pyramid.
That's like, there's a lot of chambers that aren't there on that map.
But it's, it's, it's a huge.
Yeah.
That's a sick diagram.
Yeah.
This is probably a little closer to reality.
I probably have a picture too, but there you go.
Is it obvious to you when you go in the pyramids that these things were made for people to
walk through?
No, not at all.
It doesn't feel at all that way.
I actually think it, I don't think they were made for humans to put it that way.
And I don't think they were tombs either.
I don't, they certainly, I mean, this is not a, this would not have been an easy space
to take some sort of formal procession of Pharaoh's body into these places.
It's ridiculously difficult to move around in them today.
And we've added steps and handrails.
You know, it's, it's a difficult exercise for anyone.
Just the, you know, the, the, the passages are like three and a half feet high and feet
square.
So you do this pyramid crouched thing.
They're on a, they're on a pretty steep angle going up and down.
The longest passage is like 300 feet or something.
The descending passageway that goes down to the subterranean chamber.
And it's quite an exercise getting out of there.
And, you know, I can only imagine how difficult that might have been without the,
without the, the modern steps and handrails that we've put in there to help people.
It's not an easy task at all.
And then you get into spaces like the grand gallery.
I mean, that thing looks, there's so many indications in there that that had some sort
of function.
It's, it's outrageous.
There's, there's all these slots on the side of the walls.
It's as if there was a mechanism moving up and down.
I know there's architects and proposals that suggest this was a,
like a, almost like a sliding lever room that they would use to haul blocks up and do things
like this.
I'm not convinced.
Chris Dunn has his theories about that those slots might have been used to,
to house like series of, of Heimholz resonators that were part of this whole pyramid machine
that he proposes.
I'm, I'm interested in any functional take on it.
I don't have one personally.
I just, I get the indication from being in there that it feels like a machine, man.
It feels like you're walking around in the guts of a, of a, of a machine.
It's, it's just what it feels like.
It doesn't feel like it's meant for humans.
You can see the stairs and the handrails on this, but this is the grand gallery.
Oh wow.
It's like, how big is that?
It's huge.
It's probably about 40 meters long and God, it must be four or five meters tall at the
very, at the very top.
It's Chevrolet, you know, it steps up.
It has that, it has that, that stepped sort of it narrows as it goes taller and along
the edges of the walls, you have these, these slots at the very bottom of it, you go straight
and that goes to the chamber known as the queen's chamber.
And at the top, you go straight through an anti chamber and then into the, the granite
structure known as the king's chamber.
So the void that they found, however, is actually above this and it's, it's, it's
equivalent in size.
So more or less equivalent, it's something like 40 meters long, four meters wide and
potentially four meters tall.
They're not quite sure if it's angled or if it's straight, but it's, it's, and they,
they kind of prove their, they prove their, their, their mechanism and their procedure
with the first void.
Like they, they, they did their scans and they said there's probably a void right here
and this one's right, you know, near the, near the front entrance.
And sure enough, they drill a hole in there, they stick their little camera in there and
there it is.
We've, we found this void.
So they've, there's a very, very high likelihood that there's a void there.
There's an undiscovered chambers inside the great pyramid.
So, so who knows what that will reveal.
And, and I very much hope that if it is explored or plumbed or they drill into it to take a
look that it's, it's data that shared with everybody.
Cause it's, it feels like this is, you know, everybody's history in this monument.
Now, when you were at Gobekli Tepe in Turkey and some of these other sites, Karahan Tepe,
did you, are there any, are there any rocks or stones that show any of these machining
marks that you found in Egypt?
For all the time that we have been alive, the US dollar has been the primary currency,
but that may not be the case for much longer.
China is set to dethrone the dollar and possibly much sooner than you think.
And even the world's biggest economies are already ditching the dollar for the yen,
collapsing the US currency, causing unprecedented inflation and crashing markets.
And if that wasn't enough, this paves the way for the government to take total control
over all of your money with a new digital dollar.
Now is the time to take total control of your money and not let your life savings become a
casualty of the currency wars.
And you can do it using the only precious metal dealer that I trust, American Hartford Gold.
They will show you how to protect your savings and retirement accounts by diversifying your wealth
portfolio into physical gold and silver with the finest products, amazing customer service
and a buyback commitment.
But you don't have to take my word for it.
American Hartford Gold has a five star rating from thousands of reviews and an A plus from
the Better Business Bureau.
American Hartford Gold supports content like this that is committed to bringing you the truth.
And if you tell them I sent you, they will give you $5,000 in free silver on your first order.
So call them now.
Click on the link in the description or call 855-679-1326.
That's 855-679-1326 or text concrete K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E to 655-32.
Again, the phone number is 855-679-1326 or text concrete to 655-32.
Now back to the show.
Not at those sites that I've seen.
No, it's definitely, I mean, it's, it's, it, you don't see, you don't see that the same sort of
advance, what I would term the signs of advanced technology that you see in place like Egypt
and Peru for that matter and in other areas, Baalberg.
But I didn't see that in, on these sites.
There's certainly some very significant achievements, but, but it is, it is in my
estimation, all things that can be, can be done with primitive methodologies.
I mean, at Karahan Tepe, there's still a stone that's in a quarry.
There's a teapot that's been cut out.
It probably weighs around 30 tons.
I mean, so that's, you know, that's doable.
There's, and there's flint everywhere.
Like that's the other thing you see little, when you're looking around on the ground,
there's flint chips everywhere.
I can probably really pull up some pictures of it.
Yeah.
We would just, on the site, particularly at Karahan, you can find all of these chippings
and like little, like flint, either arrowheads or their, their pieces that have come off,
you know, flint chisels or blades and it's all worked flint.
You can tell it's all been napped, found dozens of them and just pick them up, take a photo,
put them down.
But yeah, there's a big tea pillar still in a quarry that's attached.
I mean, it's, it's a difficult thing to do, but logistically, sure, you can move, you
know, 30 tonne loads.
That said, there are other sites in Turkey that do, I have not visited them there.
I think there's one called, I think it's a Zanaki Tepe.
It's kind of hard to say, but it looks very much classical sort of megalithic matches the
stuff in Egypt.
I've seen photos of tube drills and other indications and it would take more investigation
to see, well, is this specifically something that needs, you know, some sort of advanced
tech to do?
I'm, I'm pretty careful about specifically what I say is like, well, this can or can't
be done, you know, with primitive methodologies.
It's, you know, it's, it's very specific signatures in stone.
It's particular achievements and it's, you know, things like precision that we've measured,
not just eyeballed stuff like that.
And, you know, I, I also classify like the massive logistical challenges over like say
250, 400, a thousand tons.
I don't think we've answered the question or, or, or satisfied the statement that that
can all be done with primitive methods like the, you know, I think, I think you can, you
can do that.
And people have demonstrated moving large loads up to 100, 150 tons, maybe even 200 tons.
I don't know.
But at some point there, there's a, to me, there's a line, I don't know if it's like
300 or 400, I mean, anything above for sure, above 400 tons.
I'm like, I'm really starting to question that this can be done with purely primitive
methodologies, particularly those attributed to the dynastic Egyptians in this case, because
you know, the Romans could do a lot of things, but the Romans use pulleys and cap stands and
they had metal, they had, they had steel, they had, they had a lot more capability than
what we know the dynastic Egyptians had, remember in the old kingdom.
And for a lot of the, that civilization, they had no use of the wheel.
They'd never, there's no evidence for pulleys use.
They didn't use cap stands.
They didn't use force multipliers.
They literally had like wooden levers, sleds, ropes and human horsepower.
There's no evidence they even used animals to, to horse stuff around.
So that's a very much a different challenge when you're talking about gigantic, you know,
single piece objects that weigh a thousand tons or more, which, of which there is evidence
for many.
And in fact, there's, I think there's evidence that, that stones of this size were even being
removed from quarries prior to the pre dynastic civilization.
I think there's strong evidence for that at the Aswan quarry.
It's a, it's a new area of it that I,
When was the pre dynastic?
When was pre dynastic?
So the, so the,
Give us like the rough timeline.
Yeah, I can actually show it to you.
Okay, perfect.
And Cleopatra was in the most recent.
She was the last.
She was the last, right?
Last.
And I think, I don't remember where I saw this, but Cleopatra is actually closer to us than to.
Indeed.
The building of the Great Pyramid.
The building of the Great Pyramid.
Yeah.
So this here gives you an idea.
So, you know, you're talking about a little earlier than, than 3000 BC.
So around 3150 is more or less the date where you have men as the first Pharaoh of the first dynasty.
So like 5000 years ago.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that was, so anything prior to that is what you would call pre dynastic times.
Okay.
And there's, there's a few cultures that we associated with that, the Ndak culture, several others.
It's a very interesting time because we get a lot of very interesting artifacts that come from that time.
Things like, you know, precision made stone vases, which we can talk about.
Yeah.
But that's the early, it's, it's what's known as the early period, the first couple of dynasties.
You know, then, you know, sort of 2700 BC or thereabouts, we get into what's known as the old kingdom.
This is the famous period.
I love studying this period for my favorite period.
This is where the mega pyramids come in.
This is the huge granite works of, you know, the valley temple, the sphinxes in here, all of this stuff happens in the old kingdom.
This is where, where mainstream archeologists believe that this is when they believe the pyramids and the sphinx were made.
Yeah.
They date this.
So the pyramids were all dated to a reign of, or a family.
In fact, the people don't realize this.
It's like the, the, the great, the stone pyramids, the, the massive stone pyramids, all of them.
I mean, just in Giza alone, those three pyramids supposedly were built in a period less than a hundred years together.
Like it with success, because you had, you had, this is the orthodox timeframe.
You had Khufu, then you had his son, possibly his brother, I think, Khufray built the middle pyramid and then Mencara, who might have been his son.
So you got this success of generations that apparently built these pyramids.
And if you, if you go back a little bit to include the other massive, massive stone pyramids that are attributed to one guy, Sneferu, who was the first pharaoh, I think, of the fourth dynasty.
You know, he's, he's, he has three pyramids.
He has the massive pyramid.
There's Edmaidum, which is just a huge structure.
There's the bent pyramid, which is, I mean, probably the best preserved, at least the exterior structure of the, is the bent pyramid.
The casing stones are all locked together and then most of them are still in place.
And then the red pyramid, so the bent pyramid and the red pyramid are at a place called Dashor.
And they're about the same size as the middle pyramid.
So very close.
These are, these are the same sort of achievements.
So if you take all of those stone pyramids, it, they were all supposedly built in just like a 150 year period, according to the orthodox timeline.
It's, it's kind of silly.
And if you, in Sneferu alone, I have a video on Sneferu.
I mean, it's, there's so many questions.
Like they never found him.
They didn't find any, this is the same story, right?
No inscriptions, no burials, no remains in these pyramids.
And why does a pharaoh need three pyramids?
They, they kind of say, well, you know, he kind of stuffed up on the bent pyramid and he didn't get it right.
So, you know, has this angle changed to it, which was a mistake, which is complete nonsense.
You don't make, you know, these things aren't made up as they go along.
And then they go, well, it's, ah, then he did the red pyramid.
He was probably buried in the red pyramid.
It's like, what does he need three pyramids?
And if he did build all three pyramids, I think I did the math at one point in the video.
I think it was like over a 25 or even 40 year period.
I think you had to have cut and installed more than 350 tons of stone every day for that entire period to build those three.
That's finished in 40 years.
In 40 years, I think something like that.
It's, you have the similar logistical challenges with the great pyramid, right?
And in a period of 25 years, because you have to, this explanation for how these things were built
is constrained by the fact that they have a rough idea of how long the kings they associate to them lived or ruled.
And of course, you want to build your pyramid while you're alive.
You want to be buried in it.
It's, the next guy to come along may not finish that for you.
He might take it off you.
Who knows what, right?
So they go for Khufu, for example, the great pyramid, roughly 25 years.
The math works out with that thing with, you know, two and a half million stones, more or less making it up.
And it's something like, you know, five to six million tons.
It's one block quarried cut, transported, dressed, finished, put in place, complete every five minutes.
24 hours a day, seven days a week, every day of the year.
What's the average weight of those blocks?
About two and a half tons with, with blocks ranging up to like 60, 70, 70 plus tons, like the granite blocks in its core.
A good example.
I love this story.
I use it in the one of the videos that I have on, on looking at the sort of the, this absurd timeline of these pyramids that is that.
So in France, there's a well on articles.
This was shown in the revelations of the pyramids of documentary made by a good friend of mine, Patrice Poillard, fantastic film.
But there was a quarry in France.
Like they dug us whole, basically, they quarried out a stone or something like this, this big pit and it was roughly the same volume as the great pyramid of Giza.
And they used it as a big hole in the ground.
And they're like, all right, well, we finished quarrying or we finished doing this.
So we just use this for a dump, for like material, like rock or whatever from these building sites.
So they would literally just dump truck, like dump trucks that just back up with this, you know, whatever dirt digging material from other sites and just dump into it.
24 hours a day is this is one operation when they all these construction projects, they just drive trucks up and just dump into it.
It took them 12 years to fill it by dumping it, dumping into it with with modern dump trucks, 24 hours a day all the time, 12 years just to fill that space.
And you're trying to tell me that in 25 years, you're building what is still one of the most precisely made structures on the planet in terms of alignment.
The incredible precision that that is exhibited in the stonework on the inside the whole the whole the orientation of the entire structure you've got and not included in that figure by the way is not for nothing is the bedrock.
I mean, you probably got years of planning, right, just to survey it and plan and design this thing.
Then they actually had to like level the bedrock and they had to get down to a point where they didn't level it entirely.
There is a primordial mound sort of thing in the middle, which is another interesting fact that relates to a lot of other sites, but it sits on tiles.
There are foundation tiles around this pyramid, some of them weighing 200 to 250 tons.
A lot of people walk up and look at the pyramid, but make sure you look down at your feet.
You're walking on something that was constructed before they ever laid the first stone down to build the pyramid.
So all of that's probably taken years as well.
And then you've got to go through this process of actually constructing the thing and finishing it because, you know, the inside they definitely use mortar.
And there's there's, you know, it's not a pristine wouldn't call it like super precise.
Most of the superstructure, but the exterior casing stones were incredibly well made, as was a lot of the structures on the inside.
The whole massive granite structure that's in the center that is the king's chambers part of and is what is above it.
There's like five or six chambers above it all made out of granite.
So yeah, all of this happens in the old kingdom.
So you go from there, you have these intermediate periods.
They're essentially periods when there's civil unrest or there's, you know, a disconnection between Upper and Lower Egypt.
It's the something happens to disrupt the kind of the unity of Egypt.
The Middle Kingdom runs from dynasties 11 to 14.
Another intermediate period, the New Kingdom.
That's the relatively famous period.
You have guys like Ramses, the second, you know, Maren Patar, said he the first notorious pharaohs.
And this is actually an age of great power for the dynastic Egyptian civilization.
They were very rich, very powerful during this period.
Another third intermediate pyramid period.
You have a late period.
Then you have what's called the Ptolemaic period, which is essentially the Greek Roman period.
And then the civilization, as we know, it comes to an end with Cleopatra, who famously commit suicide around 30 BCE.
So yeah, that statement that she's closer to us than to the building of the great pyramids is true.
Like it's, you know, it's what, just under 2000 years since Cleopatra killed herself.
But you have to go back, you know, two and a half plus like 2,700 years almost to the building of the pyramids.
To the official building.
And that's, yeah, the official date of the pyramid.
Right.
Which we, people have speculated, you've speculated that it's been a lot, it was a lot earlier than that, right?
Yeah, I would, I question the dating of the pyramids.
I think, I mean, it's a difficult thing to say purely because you're looking at the skeletal remains of something that's probably been worked on and renovated and reused.
And just, just, I mean, I'm sure the dynastic Egyptians were working on these things.
They did things to them.
They used them.
They became part of their culture.
I, my, my problem with the pyramid, particularly the Great Pyramid, because that's the one we've studied the most.
But actually most of them, obviously you have the logistical issues with the timeline that I, that I talked about.
I think these were multi-generational projects.
They must have to be.
We've got tons of examples of that type of thing in our own time.
How long it takes us to build, you know, the Panama Canal or these giant projects, their infrastructure projects.
They take a long time.
The other, the problem I have with them is, is the precision and the, and the knowledge that's encoded in them.
Like, I think, I think any honest analysis of the pyramids leaves you in a position where, where you have no choice but to reevaluate and rewrite history.
You either end up if you go, okay, the dynastic Egyptians built them, right?
Fine.
In that case, they had far more capability.
Right.
And far more knowledge than we, than we could, than we've ever attributed to them, right?
I think I've talked before about the fact that you have the dimensions of the Earth encoded into the pyramid, right?
It's, it's essentially a scale model of the, the Northern Hemisphere.
There's, there's, there seems to be specific information about the fact that the, the Earth's an, an oblate spheroid,
that it's, it's longer around the equatorial circumference than it is the polar circumference.
Right.
It's the grid of latitude and longitude, like that ratio, the fact that we're, you know, we're slightly, slightly longer east to west than we are north to south.
That ratio, if you knock it out on like a, a grid of latitude and longitude, they squares, they're not really squares, they're rectangular.
Because the, because of the way the Earth's shaped, the latitude lines are, are shorter than the longitudinal lines.
That's right.
So if you take a square unit, basically out of the Earth, starting at the equator, it would be wider than it is tall.
That's right.
And if you scale it down, it is like within inches, the exact, the exact size.
Yeah.
I have it here.
Let me, let me grab it here.
Pyramid stuff.
It's actually called, this is it here.
So it's, it's, so it kind of, it kind of starts here.
This is where, this is where that ratio is encoded.
It's in something called the Sockle.
Yes.
Which is essentially a qubit high.
It's like a little, think of it as like a little platform the pyramid sits on, which gives you two ways to measure its perimeter, right?
You can measure the perimeter based on the perimeter of the Sockle or the perimeter of the actual pyramid.
And, and then, so this is your, this is exactly what you were talking about.
So one quarter of one minute of latitude at the equator on the Earth is 3,022.9 feet.
A quarter of a minute of longitude is slightly longer at 30, that 30, 43.5 feet.
And then so the perimeter length of the pyramid without the Sockle is 30 point, it's like what, 0.2 of a foot off.
And this is 0.1 of a, of a foot off being exactly that same ratio.
So you have latitude and longitude.
You have the dimensionality of the planet.
This, this, which is, we, again, you know, Randall mentioned this the other day, it's, we, we, we didn't really get a good, an accurate understanding of that until we had satellite surveys and we did space observations in the 1980s.
And it turns out, because we were, we had a much different idea of this before that time.
And the more accurate we became, the closer we got to the pyramid numbers, you know what I'm saying?
Like we, we, we were, we've started to learn actually the pyramid very accurately encodes this data.
You know, you sort of have some other things on the pyramid.
Like it's, it has that ratio of four, three, two, though.
This is one of those cosmically significant numbers that's in that, that pantheon of very interesting astronomical numbers.
And it's, it's at a scale of 45,200, it essentially replicates the earth.
You multiply the height of the great pyramid by 45,200, you get the polar radius of the earth.
You multiply the base perimeter of it by 45,200, you get the equatorial circumference of the earth.
This was coming up a lot yesterday with Randall and he was explaining this plasmoid generator type thing and how the dimensions of the tubes and the sphere and the thunderbolt generator are, it starts at four inches, then it goes to three, then it goes to two.
That is used like throughout that whole mechanism, which is.
Yeah, there's, there's a lot of these numbers tend to repeat in, in lots of different ways and Randall's a complete master at showing it all.
But that's, so that's, that's why I say that I think I, and, and, you know, other people have argued that the speed of lights encoded in it.
And there's obviously all this precision stonework in the pyramid.
So, you know, and it's a logistical achievement like no other that wasn't equaled until relatively modern times.
I mean, so I think under either case, so either the dynastic Egyptians built it or they didn't.
Right.
So you have to, it's either one or the other.
But if you, if you go with they did, then we need to reevaluate and rewrite history based on what it means and what information they have and their capabilities.
And we've got to, we vastly underestimated the dynastic Egyptians.
They were far more capable and they, where did they get this data from and how did they know it?
Like that's a rewrite of history.
And if they didn't make it, like they for sure worked on it.
But if there was something else here and this inspired them, then that's, that's another picture likes who did then?
Like, so that's, that's where you get to this concept of inheritance.
And I, and this is why I'm a supporter of the lost ancient civilization hypothesis is that I think the vast majority of evidence favors that answer.
I just think there is so much evidence of renovation and reuse and imitation.
I think it's like a, I'd look at dynastic Egypt and I think this, this idea of them being basically a giant cargo cult, the world's most advanced cargo cult makes a lot of sense because you got to imagine the other problem with the pyramids is that, you know, these are the first pyramids that were ever made.
Right.
They're like that.
That's at the very pointy end.
The first ones were the best ones.
The first ones were the best ones.
Yeah.
You can just step pyramids.
Another story.
I think that is dynastic.
But then immediately after the step pyramid, you have these mighty gigantic stone pyramids that were supposedly constructed, but they kept making pyramids after that.
I mean, take a look at this.
Like, so, you know, it's, it's, to me, it's why I get this term a tale of two industries.
You have the earliest pyramids of these giant stone structures that are still standing today.
They kept building pyramids right through the middle kingdom.
But they were making them from mud brick and they were much smaller and they were much less sophisticated.
And they're today eroding away slowly because they were, this is how they were made.
It's like this technology just disappeared if they had it.
And then they were trying to imitate these other pieces of these other works with mud bricks.
And in fact, this is also supported this, this primitive methodology is supported by scenes on the wall.
Like there is a scene of pyramid building.
Like, but it's mud bricks.
It's literally, it's in the tomb of the nobles on the west bank of the nine.
How do they make the mud bricks?
Well, they'd put together these mud, they'd bake them in the sun or they might have baked them in ovens.
And they'd make these big mud bricks and then they'd transport them to, you know, it's like straw or hay and mud.
And you, you know, you bake it and you stick it in a mold and you cook it.
Geopolymer people, that's probably what it is.
It's a former geopolymer.
And then they'd stack them up and, and they'd build it that way.
And that's a, it's a process that continues to this day, people doing stuff that way.
But that's how they built them.
And so what's interesting to me is, is that this concept that, you know, there's a, there's an advanced version of a particular thing.
Pyramids is one of them.
And a primitive version of a particular thing that matches the tools and techniques that we know about.
Right.
We know that they were relatively primitive.
They didn't use the wheel.
They, they use manpower.
They used primitive tools like flint chisels and pounding stones and, you know, wooden implements for this sort of stuff.
That, that, and there's scenes on the wall that support it.
Right.
So we have, they showed us how they did it.
That, that exact set of circumstances exists not only for pyramids, but it exists for, for vases, for columns, for boxes, for slabs.
There's an advanced and then there's a primitive version of that.
And I've been slowly trying to document that in detail over the last couple of years and look at each category of these and say, okay, so what matches what they, the tools that we know they could use.
And the techniques that we know that they used and the stuff they drew on the walls that showed us how they did it versus the stuff that isn't explainable via those mechanisms.
And so that's why I think there's, when you look at these advanced things and you look at what the domestic Egyptians were doing and you look at their own history and what they say about their past,
all of a sudden this idea of inheritance, you know, and a longer timeline, the fact that maybe they got a kickstart, you know, when, when they finally came out of that,
that, that, that Neolithic or Mesolithic Stone Age and they began civilized enough people and they could organize and they started, they might have started with all of these artifacts and objects.
And, you know, I, and that's actually what they say to like they trace their own history back some 36,000 years like their origin stories with the time of Zeptepe when the time when the gods walked to the earth.
They talk about the time of the Shemsu Hall, these mythical, you know, demigod like people with magical powers, all of these rulers.
They have a King's List that goes back nearly like I said over 36,000 years, I think.
And then it gets to the dynastic civilization at the end.
Who came up with the King's List?
Well, there's a couple of different sources.
There's, there was an Egyptian priest called Minnaeus that, that, that talked about it.
The probably the most, the primary source for that is something called the Turin papyrus.
There's also Samaritan King's List that's different.
It goes back like 400,000 years or something.
But there's a Turin papyrus, which is, which is where this is written.
And it's actually, it's in, I think it's even in Turin.
But it's, yeah, it's, they deciphered it on the back of a, on the back of a piece of parchment.
So it's, it was, we're lucky we've got that much of it because it was, it's quite a long story about how that thing came to be.
It was falling apart and they managed to put most of it back together.
But there's a couple of different sources for that King's List.
You know, and not only that, they have cataclysm origin stories.
Like they, they, they're, the story of Atlantis comes to us from Egypt.
So that's entirely the source for that is all in Egypt.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I mean, that, well, that's where, so Plato in roughly two or 300 BC or thereabouts.
Dick, you know, he talks about it in the Thames and Critias dialogues.
That's how we get the story.
That's the, that's probably the best account we have of Atlantis that comes from his ancestor, Solon, who lived around 600 BC.
And he tells the story of when he was in Egypt at a temple up in the Delta.
This temple doesn't exist anymore, but it was a priest, an Egyptian priest at one of these structures at this temple in the Delta.
That told him the story of Atlantis and said, this happened 9,000 years ago, which so Solon's 600 BC, 9600 BC, 11,600 years ago.
That's the end of the Younger Dryas.
It, it, it locks right in with Mount Waterpulse 1B when we know the sea levels rose.
So this is the, the correlation.
I think Graham Hancock made it.
I don't know if he was the only one or he was the first.
I'm not sure who, but you know, this, this relates to Atlantis and it's not, it comes from Egypt and not only that, but it's also written on the walls of the Edfoo temple.
The, the, the primeval Digiba story.
It doesn't specifically say Atlantis, but it tells a story with Toth.
Who, who it's one of the few sort of Toth passages.
I've got photographs of it actually.
And they talk about the primeval land being an island that sank.
And then they had to go to the, to the homeland and build these primeval mounds that were, that was where all the temples would be.
And beneath these pyramids and a lot of these other structures, you have primeval mounds, you know, it's, so it's, there's a lot of correlation to this concept of a lost civilization.
Call it Atlantis, call it whatever you want.
But I, that's why I think all of this evidence makes sense.
So, you know, the Egyptians are connected to it.
We've got the evidence of the artifacts for it.
And then I think you're also with the Egyptian iconography, you're looking at, at that as well, because I do, I do believe there is, there is plenty of evidence that suggests a lot of these statues, not a lot, but certainly several of them.
And certainly the very large ones were required significant technology and will be on the capabilities of what we know about the dynastic Egyptians.
So when I, when I make the case for symmetry and precision in these statues, it's a question I sometimes get.
It's like, well, how come if you think these statues are so old, how come they look like Egyptians or dynastic Egyptians?
And I, I think it's the other way around.
I really do.
I think the dynastic Egyptians modeled themselves and their culture after that, after the stuff they inherited.
It's that classic iconography of what we look at and we go, that's a pharaoh.
You know, that's, that's, if you had inherited that, there's a, there's a poem, Ozymandias, was it Percy Shelley who wrote it.
It talks about a story of a desert traveler who comes in, who comes across these two vast and trunkless legs of stone standing in the desert.
And nearby he sees a giant visage that's half buried with a sneer of cold command.
Like you imagine coming along in a desert and seeing these legs and the head of this statue that was probably 1200 tons and 90 feet tall,
just broken down and it's looking at you and you're like, what the hell is this?
I mean, if you had inherited these, this iconography that you would, and particularly if your culture was connected to it,
like the Egyptians say they were, these are your gods, man.
Like this, these are your gods.
And, and one thing that doesn't really change is, is in the actual tombs.
So with all the beautiful artwork and you see how the pharaohs depict themselves,
that iconography of what they look like doesn't really change over the whole civilization.
It's pretty similar.
And they always depict themselves as being amongst the gods.
The pharaohs were considered god kings, right?
So it's, and then generation after generation after generation, they get more powerful and more arrogant and the hubris of it.
So they would, they would, they would start to believe it, I guess, or start to claim these statues.
Now, this is me.
I'm going to write my name on this statue.
I'm going to carve my name into it.
And then, you know, this is kind of what happens.
It, it, it, these, these artifacts and this, the iconography becomes part of that culture and exists for 3000 years.
It becomes tightly integrated into it.
These, these places probably became ceremonial places.
So whether or not places like Giza or Sakara had a functional purpose.
Abu Seer, for that matter, potentially had a functional purpose that had something to do with an advanced civilization.
I think that's a possibility.
I think it's worth investigating, but they would have become ceremonial because these,
the dynastic Egyptians might have had a cultural memory of it, but they had no ability to, to do anything with it.
So it becomes ceremonial.
And again, you can, you can make it a correlation of that.
So imagine the younger drives happens tomorrow, you know, touch wood, it doesn't, but, but if it happens tomorrow within a couple of generations,
wipes out our civilization within a couple of generations, I mean, we're going to be dancing around campfires, like with black pieces of stone that look like a cell phone.
Like trying to like, oh yeah, if we dance around the right way around this, around this fire, this black piece of stone is going to tell me everything.
It's, it's going to be able to talk to my ancestors.
I can do, I can get all the data.
Like the technology of yesterday becomes a myth and legend and magic and, and you try to capture it through ceremony.
I mean, it's plasma TVs or a story you tell around a fire at some point.
Right, right.
So long, long winded explanation for how I think, I think it's a, I think, I do think it's a viable lens with, through which to try and view our past.
Like in particularly places like Egypt.
I think there's a longer timeframe involved here.
And then going back to some of the inscriptions that are made on some of the stuff, like on, especially on the boxes that are inside the pyramids, you, it's, it's very clear that the, the hieroglyphs that are carved into the,
the hieroglyphs that are carved into those things are much newer than the actual boxes themselves.
And the boxes are perfect precision.
The lines are straight.
The angles are perfect.
And then you have these sort of roughly cut, roughly chiseled hieroglyphics or, you know, it looks like they've been vandalized by a much later civilization.
Yeah, that's exactly what I think's happened in a few cases.
And, and, you know, here's an example.
Like this is.
Yeah, this is a great example.
Yeah, use of an eye in the Serapium with these, which is a site with, you know, these 100 ton, they're about giant granite boxes, 24 of them.
They're, they're about housed in these underground galleries.
Wonderful, wonderful site.
But, you know, these boxes, yeah, I mean, I've got, I've looked at them in great detail.
A number of them are pretty perfect.
Like they've got 90 degree corners, the flat surfaces, they're straight lines, all these things.
You know, I love this image of it because, you know,
And then another, another thing to point out is it's not the high relief.
Yeah, it's carved in.
It's carved in.
Although the Egyptians did do high relief carving eventually.
And they did good carving as well.
But this is a good demonstration of kind of the point that, that you're making and that I absolutely agree with this.
You know, I love this image because on the corner, it's tough to see with the light there.
But on that corner, on the right hand side, you can see it's actually reflecting the light from the hallway in the stone.
Like it's.
It's so smooth.
It's what's smooth and it's polished.
And this isn't a natural property of granite.
You've got to work pretty hard to get a mirror finish on it.
And then, you know, obviously the people who make it, they can make straight lines.
They can make clean corners.
But when you get to look at the writing, it's, you know, there's no straight lines.
It's obviously the work of some dude with a chisel and a hammer.
If you made this box, why would you put this on it?
Yeah, you'd be, if you were the maker of the box, you'd be pissed.
Yes.
You would be upset.
So if, to me, it's like, it's two different technologies, right?
So the technology used to make the writing is primitive.
It's totally achievable with hand tools.
You can, you can knock this out with a hammer and a chisel on the granite.
And in places, it's even, the granite's too smooth where it's skipped over.
There's no straight lines.
And then this, this is, this illustrates one of the issues with a lot of modern or contemporary sort of Egyptology,
which is that the writing is the bedrock of Egyptology.
Once we, once we translated hieroglyphs that, you know, the Rosetta Stone and we were able to sort of start to translate.
And that's been a huge science.
It's wonderful actually.
It becomes the bedrock of how we date and relate objects and artifacts because it's, it's, it's whatever was written on them.
It's not the only way, but whatever's written on these things becomes the primary methodology for how we date them.
So if it is written on them, so you have the name of a guy on an artifact, it's just like, well, well, the inference is therefore that he probably had this thing made for him.
And he, and therefore he might have even made the whole site.
It's, you know, it's not the only method that's used, but it is a primary one.
It's probably the first one they'd go to for dating stuff.
And what's interesting even on this box here is, is, is one of the other issues with this idea is that you actually have an empty shen ring on this box or a cartouche, which doesn't have a name in it.
So it's all carved up and there's an empty shen ring in here.
And all you have to do is imagine that there's a name of a pharaoh in this, in the shen ring.
And then the history books would say that it was this guy that made this box and probably this whole site.
And that's how the whole story, that's what ends up in a history textbook, but it's empty.
And we don't know who, who, whose name was going in here.
I suspect it was whoever was going to pay the priests that ran the place the most because this box was probably being sold for dedication.
All right, this is the priests around this site.
We know they were dedicated all over the Serapium.
There's, you know, there's, there's little, little indentations on the walls that have, you know, there were these little limestone or granite stelaes that you would put in there and have a dedication to yourself.
And this would be a service is being sold by the priests that were running the place.
Like, it's one of the issues with it.
And, you know, it goes further.
Once you start to see this dichotomy between, of technology between the artifacts themselves and, you know, and the, and the writing, you start to see it in a lot of places.
And this is a great example of like the show people.
Yeah, it's a Hicksos Sphinx, but you can see that the ribs are kind of being shown up by the, just the light almost is being used to the reflection to show that the rib line on this thing.
But then you take a close look at the hieroglyphs and they're just crudely pizzled.
Like, it's, you know, you see the hammer marks, you see the fact that it's, it's done by hand.
And here's another key indicator for me.
The hieroglyphs are never polished.
Right.
So the rest of the stone is polished and there's obviously it's not all flat surfaces and easy polishing.
There's lots of interesting and tight sort of parts of the stonework that, that were polished, but the hieroglyphs are never polished.
So, you know, for example, if you look at some of these incredible statues that come from the Old Kingdom, you know,
you have the top of the chest, the clavicle here is all beautifully done.
You have the fingernails, the cuticles, the insides of the fingernails, all of that stonework's polished, right?
This isn't flat surfaces.
So they were capable of polishing stone.
Whoever built this statue could polish stone in whatever form they wanted to.
There's dust all over the statue, but it is polished.
And, you know, you get these beautiful examples of knees, like this is one of the best knees in str...
I mean, this is granite diorite, not for nothing, but incredible musculature and bone structure.
Diorite?
Granite diorite.
Granite diorite.
How hard is that stone?
Slightly harder than granite.
In some way, it's like a mixture between granite and diorite.
And what is the hardest stone on earth?
Diamond.
And diorite's how far?
Diorite's like a seven and a half.
So diamonds are 10 on the most scale of hardness.
You know, things like hardened steel might be a 6.5.
And granite can be a 6.5 to a 7.
Some are diorite and flint and some of the other harder stones, you know,
either porphyry or dollarite can go up to like seven and a half, eight.
Okay.
Corundum, topaz, things like this are a nine.
And we have artifacts made from things like corundum that they were shaping with a nine.
I mean, copper and bronze are like three and four.
These are extreme.
Marble's like a three.
Calcite's like a three.
This is why a lot of sculptures done in marble these days.
Statue of David.
Is that marble?
Yeah.
Yeah, marble.
It's much, much, much softer than this stuff.
Like incredibly.
Yeah.
If you're a modern sculptor, you ain't working in granite just because.
Like it's not a good choice.
Like it's that you're going to burn your tools out.
It's going to be a nightmare.
And modern sculptors will know this.
But, you know, the point is, is that again, even with decent, decent hieroglyphs like this,
you know, it's not polished, right?
Even in the, even in the good hieroglyphs that are on the side of this statue,
like this, the interior of the bird, not polished.
The, the, the, the shen ring around that, that, the king's cartouche there,
not straight and not polished.
The lotus flower motif below it is polished.
Like, so it's like when this is a different, this was done with a different technology,
potentially done at an entirely different time.
So it's difficult to say then that the writing is, is how we can date and relate this artifact
into the story of history.
It's entirely possible that this was inherited.
We don't know how old it is.
And then somebody wrote their name on it later and claimed it.
And in fact, we have evidence of that very thing.
And here's one more good example of the polish.
I like this shot because it shows you the polished stone.
And then that, you know, you can see the chisel marks.
This is all this, these, these hieroglyphs, they're good, but they're all done by hand.
You know, and we know that the practice of writings of somebody usurping an artifact,
Ramsey's, Flint is Petrie called Ramsey's the second, the great usurper.
He was one of the, people think about him as one of the most powerful kings of ancient Egypt.
He, but he was notorious for writing his name on stuff.
This is, this is an example here I can show you real quick.
It's like, that's the cartouche of Ramsey's the second right here.
This big guy here, it's carved in very deeply into, I actually love this photograph.
It's, he's carved it deeply into what is a reused section of an obelisk,
but look closely at the end here.
Oh yeah, the bird.
He's carving over the top of a preexisting inscription.
So you can see it here where he's blending in.
They got quite good at like writing over the top and like blending in his stuff into a preexisting inscription.
Oh wow.
And I mean, there's artifacts with two or three or four even different Pharaoh's names on them.
And he would Ramsey's became notorious.
He would carve his stuff really deeply because he didn't want other people doing to him that he would,
what he was doing to others.
But you know, what I love about this particular picture is you're actually looking at two or three different reuses of a particular artifact, right?
So this piece of stone was originally probably part of an obelisk, right?
It's a broken piece of an obelisk.
It had a place called Tannis, which is literally was forested with obelisks and columns.
And if you've seen obelisks, the ones that have writing on them, the writing's vertical, right?
It's not horizontal.
It's vertical.
Yes, when the obelisks are standing up.
Yeah, standing up.
So this isn't original writing.
So not only did this obelisk break.
This thing was originally standing up vertically.
Yeah, it's a piece of an obelisk, most likely.
Yeah.
And so it was re, and they were reused.
There's even like these walls that they built in the Tannis.
I mean, there's a foot from a thousand ton statue that's been repurposed into a block in a wall.
So they were reusing broken pieces of stones in walls.
So not only did they reused it once as a block in a wall, then someone wrote something on it the first time.
And then later on, who knows how long later Ramses II comes along and writes over it again.
So this thing's been inherited, renovated and reused like two or three different times.
And it's written on horizontally.
And all the vertical obelisks are written on vertically.
The ones that have writing on them.
Yes.
So it's hard to say, how can you take this cartouche and say, well, Ramses had this block of stone quarried and shipped to the side.
And, you know, we don't know that.
You can't date the stonework.
So it's just, it's a great example of inheritance and reuse.
What are the people saying that pushed back against this?
It's football season, baby.
And you know what time it is.
Time to gamble all that hard-earned money on some sports.
As a better, you demand perfection.
And that's where my bookie delivers.
NFL, college football and a brand new cash out system give you the options to bet and win all season long.
First two legs of your parlay already hit.
You can cash it out early and place another bet or sweat it out and let it ride for a chance at an even bigger payday.
Join the my bookie family for an entire season filled with daily odds boosts, same day parlays and super contests.
And this season, my bookie has a no strings attached cash bonus that lets you deposit and withdraw quick.
Use the promo code DJP on a deposit of $50 or more and you can receive up to $200 cash instantly into your my bookie account.
Bet your deposit amount once and you're ready to withdraw at any time.
Again, that's promo code DJP to claim your cash deposit bonus.
You can bet anything, anytime, anywhere, only with my bookie.
Like how do they, how do they defend this when confronted with some of this stuff?
Well, I mean, with the inheritance, I mean, the reuse of stuff, it's not really defended.
It's not, I mean, it's not like trumpeted as a common thing, but it's acknowledged that, yeah, Ramses would reuse stuff,
but it's kind of a weird, it's only in certain cases where they have very specific,
okay, we've got three names of rulers on this artifact, so therefore this is probably older, he might have renovated this,
but they don't, yeah, they don't, they don't, they don't really acknowledge it as a possibility for a lot of the stuff.
And I think it is, even the statues, like there's the big statues at Luxor have the names of two or three different pharaohs on some of them.
They just don't, I mean, one of the problems with, I mean, I hate to use the term,
but it's just like mainstream or orthodox Egyptology is that they don't really consider the engineering aspects of the stonework.
They don't care about precision or symmetry, they don't care about, you know, the vase game work, for example, that we've been doing.
It's not really factoring into the decision making, you know, they look at who's written on it, they look at what scenes are on the wall,
they look at the other data they can do to support and say, well, that's where it is.
You know, I genuinely don't know how they think about this.
I mean, for sure, they'd probably point to the fact, well, you know, you get the same sort of questions like where are the tools and, you know, where's all the structures and all that stuff.
I think we're looking at some of the structures.
I think we're looking at, but we're looking through the lens of thousands and thousands of years of renovation, reuse, remodeling,
and then thousands and thousands of years of destruction and quarrying.
And, you know, it's a really difficult picture to put together, particularly in Egypt, because it's, you know, people, even within their own civilization, they were reusing stuff.
But who knows when it started, but they kept reusing and rebuilding and changing the sites.
And then for thousands and thousands of years after, they've been used as quarries for stone.
People take the stone and they chop it up and they, it's all a great source for granite, you know, even during the Egyptian civilization, this was happening.
Ramses II was quarrying granite from the Middle Pyramid at Giza to go use in some of his other structures that, like, lished in a couple of other places.
And it's written on the wall at the pyramid.
It's like, I'm the quarry master for Ramses II and we were taking the stone from here because he's the boss, you know.
What was the original stone that was casing, like, the very outer shell of the pyramids?
There was, like, a very white, shiny stone.
Yeah, so it depends.
There's the Great Pyramid and most of the Middle Pyramid was something called Tura limestone.
Okay.
Yeah.
In fact, there's, you know, Mount Nemrutin in Turkey is also made from Tura.
It's a very hard form of limestone.
And yeah, it's very white and pure.
So it's not a local stone.
They had to get it from a quarry a distance away.
And who stripped all that off?
Well, a lot of it was probably done during the, started really with the Persian occupation.
But everybody.
Right.
Anyone that could, it wasn't in, so the pyramid, the story goes is that there was a, you know, the pyramid had its casing stones.
And they were, they're all, they're locked.
Like you couldn't get a bar in there to pry.
And they're huge, you know, they're like three, four.
Some of the casing stones are bigger than the other blocks.
So that might, some of those might have been four or five tons.
Funnily enough, the Middle Pyramid actually has giant blocks in its construction too.
Even on the outside, like 50, 60 ton blocks.
But the story goes that it was, I think there was an earthquake and I'm probably going to get the date wrong.
And the 400-ish AD, there was a big earthquake.
It might have been even earlier than that.
But it shook loose a couple of these casing stones.
So it either tilted them or a busted one out and a big shake up and some stuff fell off.
And then that gave people purchase to like scaffold their way up there and scurry up there and then start prying these things out.
And just like letting them fall.
Letting them fall.
Jesus.
And then they were just, it went from there.
And you know, it's a valuable stone.
It's obviously useful for all sorts of purposes.
But one of its main purposes was you could grind it up and make like a plaster out of it.
You grind it up, mix it with water and you make a fine plaster that you can plaster over things and carve into.
And I mean, literally the only reason we have a few casing stones still left on the pyramid
is because of the piles of quarry rubble.
Like there was 50, 60 feet of quarry rubble pushed up against the base of the pyramid from all of the quarrying activity
that covered up the few remaining casing stones that were still at the bottom.
Yeah.
Flinders Petrie always decried this.
And he was always admonishing people for this because he'd said it's literally,
and this is literally like 100 to 130, 40 years ago at all of these places.
He said, does everyone who's anybody has a headstone made from the stuff, like the stone from the pyramid?
And every day there's just camel trains and camel trains of people taking stone all the time.
And he dug, he actually excavated through the rubble.
He found the casing stones.
He documented them and then he reburied them.
He's like, if I leave this open, it's going to be gone.
No question.
So he reburied it and was like, they'll have to work to get to that.
So yeah, I mean, it's just people don't care.
Most people just interested in enriching themselves.
They're not that worried about taking the stone, but it's a human nature thing.
But you get to, you know, the middle pyramid, the bottom two courses,
maybe the first, maybe also the second, for sure the first was cased in granite.
Like literally all of those casing stones were granite.
The bottom layers, like the bottom two layers.
It's really cool.
In fact, I have a, I probably have a picture of it here.
So this is the bottom pyramid here.
So these casing stones are like the same shape as the ones on the other pyramid,
but these are granite and they're huge and they're perfect.
If you walk around the middle pyramid, it's littered with these amazing casing stones.
And you see this dashed line that's in this?
Yeah.
That's an attempt to quarry it.
They were looking to split this whole face off it and get to this square block behind it.
So this is, you see this everywhere on these sites and people are like,
what are those dashed lines?
It's quarrying.
It's called a wedge and chisel.
So you'd hammer it, you'd use like steel chisels.
You'd just hammer away at it.
You'd create these divots and then you'd get wood or something.
Or you can sometimes use stone too, like flint.
But wood was good because you'd pound wood into it and then you'd wet it.
And when wood gets wet, it swells.
So it would provide pressure on the stone.
And then you would get a lot of these flint chisels or steel chisels
and just hammer into these gaps.
And what you're trying to do is crack the stone along the line and take a piece.
And yeah, I mean, these things were perfect.
You know, these casing stones were perfect with their angle
and they're all polished on the outside.
And there's tons of it just from quarry rubble.
Talking about the boxes, it's funny.
I was reading Chris's book this morning, his first one, the Giza Death Star,
or the Giza Power Plant.
And he was saying how he interviewed one of the, or he talked to
like the guy who ran the biggest granite manufacturing company in the U.S.
and he asked them what it would take, what the resources would be
to reproduce one of those massive granite blocks
that were basically hollowed out on the inside.
And the guy said it would take at least $2,000 just to quarry it.
Not more than, it was $200,000.
That's what I meant, $200,000.
Yeah, $200,000 just to quarry it.
Another like $50,000 to transport it.
Easy.
And then he was like, it would make no sense for us to hollow it out,
hollow out a single piece.
We would just take four or five pieces and we would bolt them all together.
That's right.
He's like, we would never just hollow it out.
I couldn't.
Well, you'd need to develop the tool.
Modern granite processing, we cut slabs.
Right, right.
The quarry amount of the quarry in big blocks
and then we cut them into slabs for kitchen counters or whatever use.
When you talk about doing granite sculpture, which happens,
people do like complex shapes and granite, it takes very specific tools.
And man, yeah, hollowing out a single piece of granite like that
would cost a bomb in the tooling to make that happen.
When you burn out all the tools trying to do, that's a big volume of space.
But yeah, that's...
And remember these prices are like...
I mean, Wendy, write that book, the 90s.
Right.
So that's prices probably double the easy since then.
And then the saw cuts too.
Like the saw cuts, then the errors in the saw cuts.
If you take a skill saw and you're trying to cut something
and you go into it and you realize, oh, you got the angle wrong.
You pull it out real quick and then you go back in and make another cut.
There's evidence for this.
Yeah.
But if you're doing it slowly with whatever methods they have,
they claim they had to cut those stones,
you wouldn't be going the wrong way, then pull back out
and then start going the right way.
You would obviously be going so slow that you would be able to make adjustments along the way.
That's right.
And there's plenty of evidence for overcuts and exactly that type of thing
is one of the reasons why I think, look, we're seeing evidence for...
Call them power tools.
Call them just powerful tools that were cutting incredibly hard stone.
And that's one of the best...
We can look at some of those images if you like of tooling.
I mean, not just cuts.
You see these cuts all over the place.
I don't know if this is all broken up stone now,
but these types of things you see all over it at...
This is on the basalt pavement.
But one of my favorite ones is actually...
I really like the edge of this thing.
It's a slab at Abusir.
It's this beautiful slab.
And if you look along the edge, it's been just finely touched
with some sort of powerful tool that's sort of been backed out.
This thing's got markings all over you.
You have these giant circular saw depressions here and here.
Good Lord.
You can look at how many times this thing's been touched on.
What is this made of?
I think it's schist.
I think it's schist or it's blue quartzite maybe.
It's a very unique piece.
I'm amazed it's still there.
Because a couple of people could probably move it.
And it's just a remarkable piece of stone.
Let's see where else you got...
Yeah, so Juse is pointing out the big circular saw indentation.
All the colors come out of it when you wet it.
We usually wet this one and show people.
And it was actually cut right through here at the end
and then snapped off.
You can see that on the end here.
Cut straight through.
Here's some other looks at the circular saw marks on this thing.
Absolutely amazing tooling marks in this.
Perfectly straight.
Yeah, and you have...
Let me look.
I think it's in statues.
I want to show you the overcuts.
Yeah, I mean you have stuff like this, right?
So this is at Karnak Temple.
I just did a video on this.
This is in an obelisk.
And you literally have circular saw overcuts.
You see them on statues too.
But you can literally see on this one here
where it was exactly what you were talking about.
Yeah, you see right there.
It was reset.
The angle of the cut was reset.
And it was some sort of giant circular saw
because they start narrow.
They start here and they penetrate and they get deeper.
And then they peter out at the bottom.
The profile fits a big circular saw.
And in fact, there's some more of these at Karnak.
And I do this in the video,
but I've plumbed them with like a key card
where you can show the depth increase.
You show the profile of a circular saw cut.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So the depth varies from the middle being the deepest
and then it gets shallower towards the ends.
Yeah.
I mean, this is a classic example of a circular saw cut.
You see this here, right?
I mean, it's just, it's hard to...
They had straight saws too.
I should say that.
It's not all circular saws.
There was absolutely straight saws too.
This piece is very interesting.
This is at a place called Aberawash.
If Chris Dunn does talk about this in his book,
a lot of people have talked about this.
I think even maybe Petrie talked about it.
But you see how it's...
You clearly can see the orientation of the saw, right?
Mm-hmm.
Here's the crazy thing to think about this piece.
It's concave.
See this line in the center here?
You can actually see it here.
See this kerf?
Yes.
So it's shaped like this.
It's concave.
So it's cut this way and it seems to have been cut this way.
So it's not straight.
So what I think you're looking at
is a two-stage machining process here,
where they cut...
And this is where that concavity ends here.
Like you can see, it gets deeper and then shallows out.
So they cut it sideways through this.
And then it's almost as if they ran a circular saw this way
and they just pushed the block through like this.
So it was digging out that profile as it went through.
But it's hard to see in the photos,
but it's entirely there.
And again, you see the striations in the stone
from the cutting mechanism.
Right, right.
The little grooves.
This is a very sophisticated machining in stone.
Like I don't know what the purpose was for this,
whether this was...
It could have been part of a box.
They didn't cut all the way through the stone.
I don't know.
Here's another good...
That's just good stuff like this.
Yeah.
Like, you know, I mean...
We're blowing Steven's mind right now.
I mean, I've got endless examples of this.
And it...
I mean, I like this one too.
But it's...
You can see it's just been...
And you actually look close to...
You can actually see the striations,
like the individual cut lines.
So it gets really interesting with this because...
Yeah.
You know, these...
A lot of these saw marks, the basalt ones,
and again, basalt being as hard,
if not a little harder than granite,
are in what's this basalt pavement
that's to the east of the Great Pyramid.
And it's on the sides because
they would finish the top
and it was perfectly flat.
In fact, it's a wondrous
application of stonework.
But over the years, and millennia,
it's been falling apart.
In fact, as they even built...
Back in the day, they built a road...
They had a road over it.
Like, they literally put down a road
over the top of this basalt pavement.
They've taken the road away now.
But at the sides of this thing,
where it's falling apart,
you can see where they were rough-shaping the blocks, right?
There was different...
There was different types of tools, it seems to me.
The quarry, there was...
The scoop marks in the quarry,
they were looking to remove stone quickly.
And they didn't care.
It wasn't precise.
They're like scooping stuff out
to get out as much material as possible
so they can get the block out.
Then they had the rough-shaping of stone,
where they were cutting out the...
kind of the general dimensions of the block.
And we might be looking at that with this,
where they're just cutting on the side,
and, okay, we want to get this down to this point.
And then there was a capability
to just perfectly finish the stone,
like fine polishing, fine machining,
doing those fine little touches
to get those precision surfaces,
and then a polish to make it
kind of like that mirror finish.
So there's different levels,
and these were done in different places.
And what's interesting with the stone cutting
is that we don't have a good explanation for this.
There's tube drilling kind of falls under this, too.
But the stone cutting is like...
The explanation is that it was grinding
with like a copper drag saw, you'd call it.
It's like a V-shaped copper bar.
You put sand and water, and you grind and grind and grind.
So you just sit there and grind and grind and grind.
And the problem with that is that it doesn't...
It doesn't leave...
There's videos of this, right?
Yeah, yeah. Mark Lainer and...
I mean, it's a good experiment.
There's nothing wrong with the experiment.
So Mark Lainer and a guy named Dennis Stocks.
Mark Lain's a famous Egyptologist.
Dennis Stocks is an experimental Egyptologist
who does actually do these sort of experiments.
And it's great because we get some data from his work.
But there's a few problems with it.
One is it doesn't leave the same signature.
Secondly, you don't get overcuts.
You don't get these narrow cuts like these.
You're not going to get this sort of stuff with that.
Because it's V-shaped, right?
And based on that data, though, from Dennis and other people,
we have data on how long it takes to do this.
And it's something like two...
Let's round it off and say this thing is a little tiny bit over,
but about two millimeters per hour, right?
With that grinding technique?
Yeah, and that varies based on the length of the cut.
Obviously, the longer the cut, the slower you go.
So two millimeters, roughly two and a half,
whatever millimeters per hour.
It's very, very slow is the takeaway.
And at the same time, you lose copper.
Like the grinding, because it's the quartz sand
that's doing the cutting, the copper's kind of...
You could use horn or potentially even wood,
but even using copper, you lose copper at a tremendous rate.
So you lose almost as much, if not more copper,
than you're actually getting from cutting the stone.
And it's a very slow rate.
So, A, with that slow rate, you'd have to grind away
for hours to get these sort of overcuts that we see.
For starters.
And again, as you said, you're probably not going to...
You're probably not going to make that mistake
and sit there and keep doing that mistake
for hours and hours to get an overcut.
Like, all right, Johnson, you're in trouble.
And secondly, I have yet to do the math,
but I really... I plan on...
I'd love to do this.
I've said it a few times now, but I want to scale this up
to see what is the...
At an industrial scale, can the stuff...
Because we know, you can kind of calculate how many blocks,
how much granite was cut.
You can probably get to a rough figure
of how much tonnage of granite, say just at Giza,
or maybe just on the middle pyramid complex.
I don't know.
But, you know, Chris Dunn kind of calculated it.
Just to give you an example, there's...
There's a box inside the middle pyramid, right?
It's as a box in the room.
Kind of like the box in the King's Chamber.
It's a little bigger, a little longer,
like maybe eight feet long and, you know,
three or four feet wide.
And based on Dennis Stocks' experiments,
purely to make the primary cuts on that block of granite.
So, assume you quarry the granite, takes God knows how long.
But just to make, like, the North, South, East,
West, top and bottom cuts, right?
To shape the box.
Using the data that we've got from guys like Dennis Stocks,
would take something like 267 days of continuous grinding.
24 hours a day.
Just to shape that one box.
And that doesn't include hollowing it out.
Because, again, it's a single piece box, right?
It's been hollowed out.
It's been finished perfectly.
You've got tube drills in it.
It's all shaped and decorated.
And who knows how much work in doing that as well.
So, it's just like, you really think you could scale up
and do, like, hundreds of thousands of tons
worth of granite work using this.
And where's all the copper dust?
Where is it?
Like, there's tons and tons and tons and tons of copper
must have been used to do this.
And, yeah, so I...
Didn't they analyze that famous core, the Petrie's core?
And I think, in Chris's book, I think I read this also,
where they took a modern-day tube drill.
And they basically estimated, based on the rings
going around the outer edge of the tube,
the core that came out, they estimated that the drill
would have been 500 times more powerful
than any modern drills.
So, based on...
Yeah, so, Frank, this is Petrie's core,
where I've got another image of it here.
Let's see. Where's the other one?
This... No, that's not it.
This one will do. It's fine. Same thing.
Let's get a computer.
Okay, so...
Yeah, that's Petrie's core number seven there.
So, it's...
Yeah, so Petrie...
And it's called Petrie's core number seven
because Flinders Petrie discovered it when it's exhibit number seven
on his... And this is the one that's been studied.
So, he calculated, he looked at it,
and he determined that this spiral groove
that's on the stone has a...
what you'd call a one-in-sixty penetration rate, right?
So, if you take that...
if you unwind that spiral travel,
you stick it out in a straight line
for every 60 inches of horizontal travel,
you're getting an inch of vertical travel, one-in-sixty.
Right, okay.
Chris Dunn has since, I think, refined that a bit.
It's not quite as deep.
It's not quite...
It's a little less than one-in-sixty.
It's in the ballpark.
And yeah, so based...
And then when you compare that to our modern tools,
that's a...
It essentially rounds out to being about 500 times greater penetration rate
into stone than we can achieve.
And that's not to say that it may have moved very slowly doing this
or our stuff spins really fast, you know?
So, it's not penetrating it as fast per...
You know, you don't get a one-in-sixty penetration rate,
but our stuff can still maybe cut the stone pretty quickly.
But the actual penetration rate, based on the motion of the drill,
isn't anything like what we're seeing in the stone here,
which is crazy.
And, you know, there are a number of these cores.
I've talked a lot about this core, as has Chris.
And I'm sure when you get Chris in, he'll talk about it too.
But I can see the case is closed, bro.
They did a latex mold of it,
and he has proven without any doubt that it's a spiral groove.
The problem has always been the claim that it's a spiral groove.
That's the one thing that no one in, I guess, mainstream Egyptology will admit,
and they've got a great length to try and obfuscate this idea that it's a spiral groove.
But it has been definitively proved by the Petrie Museum, no less,
and Chris Dunn, who were both responsible for the latex core experiment,
which is this one.
So they made a latex core of it, right?
So this is this latex mold.
Chris stamped the latex mold with these notches.
Cut it open with these notches.
And then here's just showing you the notch detail in these blow-ups next to these little arrows, right?
So you can draw a straight line between these notches,
which is the horizontal line.
The straight lines are the horizontal line between the notches.
Same spot.
So it goes to the bottom of the notch.
It goes to the bottom of the notch.
Same down here.
And then what you're seeing is these dotted lines are tracing the individual spiral or individual grooves.
And in every case that we look at here, it starts above the line and it ends up below the line.
So there is spiral, right?
So it's higher here, it's lower here.
It's higher here, it's lower here, et cetera, et cetera.
It geometrically proves this is a spiral groove.
That said...
And the length between each groove is exactly the same, right?
The width?
That's what I meant.
Yeah, the width.
Not really.
Well, it's Petrie described as a drunken screw.
There are some cross-over.
It seems to have been more than one cutting point.
So there was multiple cutting points.
So there might have been some cross-over.
People speculate all day about this.
And the other thing to note about this is that it's actually tapered.
So it's tough to see.
You can kind of see it.
See how it's tapered?
Right.
Yep.
So it narrows down.
And this thing's upside down.
So this is probably where it's fatter at the bottom.
It's upside down.
It snaps off here.
And so you've got to imagine the holes that they come out of are straight, right?
And it's tapered.
So it tells us that the tool itself was probably tapered.
Right.
Which means that it's shaped like this.
So as it goes down, it's cutting down, it's cutting down, it's cutting on all surfaces.
And then so a lot of, this is where I, people say, well, you know, this, this groove could have been made when they retracted the tool.
Like it unscrewed itself.
I'm like, that isn't how it would work if it was tapered.
So if it's tapered, it's going to conform to the granites conforming to the shape of the tool.
And the second you move it up at all, it loses contact with the stone because it's the angle changes, right?
It's, it's narrower at the, at the top and it's wider at the bottom.
So once you get down and you're finished, you lift it up a bit.
And then all of a sudden it's, the tool's going to be wider right at that point where it, when you lift it up.
So it's not actually touching the stone.
It doesn't unscrew, it just lifts out.
It can't, I don't think, I don't think unscrewing it or removing the tool will give you the spiral groove.
Plus, look, it, you don't, it, it takes quite a lot of force to cut, to cut into granite like this.
It's not just a, it's not just a simple, you're not scratching granite and leaving a deep groove like we see in these two.
It's not just in the, you know, it's not just in the, in the, in the drills, but we see it in these holes too.
You have these deep grooves in the holes.
And you see this all over the place with, with as many.
Now is that an example of like them doing a core drill used to split a piece of stone?
Well, I don't think it's used to split, to split a piece of stone so much as they were sought out to then, to then split stone.
You know what I'm saying?
Like they, they, they will, I think the people that were quarrying the blocks were looking for these.
And then they would, they would try and split them along the angle of the tube drill.
You know what I'm saying?
Along the axis of the tube drill.
You see, there's lots of complete holes like that haven't been split.
And in fact, you see on the back of the stones, you see that dashed line, which is a, which is a, I mean, that's a technique that started.
I mean, they were the earliest, we know they were using it in like the, the new kingdom, but these tube drill holes go back way further.
And the oldest types of, we don't see that quarrying method way back in the day.
It's like the oldest quarrying method seems to be the scoop method at the quarry, which is kind of like an ice cream scoop.
Yeah.
And, but I think they were looking for them.
Like, for example, here's a giant tube drill, right?
This is a nine inch one at, at Carnac.
And this stone's been split along its axis.
Right.
So later, later civilizations found these things and used that to start.
Yeah.
Cause it, cause it's a natural weakness in the stone and you can split them.
So you see a lot of tube drills that are in fact split, but you see plenty of that are, that are hole as well.
And when we know the whole region, because we have the drill cores.
Can we look at some pictures of these scoop marks?
Yeah.
Actually, this is a good point.
Yeah.
I don't know if I have, let's just go straight to that.
And also, I forgot to ask you, what do you speculate that these saw blades could have been made of?
It's, it's less maybe what they were made of than what technology they were using.
I mean, you know, Petrie speculated that it could have been.
He's like diamond would fit the bill.
You know, like as, cause he was looking at some bronze embedded with gemstones or something, but he's like, there's no evidence for diamond.
And then he's right.
There's no evidence for diamond use in Egypt.
We see no diamonds.
It's not written about.
Would there be leftover fragments of diamonds?
Maybe you find something.
There's literally been zero.
And, and as far as gemstones go, as far as gemstones go, the gymnastic Egyptians sort of prized colored stones.
So diamonds wouldn't have been precious from that perspective.
I mean, who knows?
Maybe they did use them.
We just don't have any evidence for it.
But I don't, look, I don't know what it was using.
It could have any corundum or hardened substance, but it could have like, I look at the stuff.
I don't think there was pure mechanical force involved.
I think there's something else going on.
Like how?
Well, that's the speculation.
So they're softened the stones?
There's, who knows?
Were they changing the molecular properties of the stone?
Were they using ultrasonics?
Were they, I mean, you have to go back to the legends.
Plasmoids?
Have you ever heard of?
Well, that could have been plasmoids.
I don't know.
I mean, this is where it's, we speculate.
I just, that's, and that's why I think it's interesting to, to, to be open minded about
what we see on these sites and, and research it as best we can.
Let's use our best tools.
Let's microscopically analyze the rock.
Let's look at it and we're being open minded to any possibility because we might learn something.
You know, I think you go back in time, the legend of the Shamir is very interesting.
You ever heard this story?
Yeah.
The, the Solomon's temple of Shamir and all this.
So it's, well, the Shamir, I'm not that well versed in this.
You should really have, you know, Russ and Kyle, the snake bros.
Oh, the snake bros, yeah.
They would be great guests.
They would need to reach out to those guys.
Fantastic.
And Russ really knows this stuff inside out a bit.
So there, there's stories in, I think it's associated with King Solomon about the stories
of something called a Shamir, which it essentially, it's, think of it as like a lightsaber that
just cuts through stone.
It's a very hard stone.
It's off sometime described as a worm, but there's this consistent story of this artifact
called a Shamir that, that, that is like allegedly would let you.
Yeah.
I like to think of it as like this lightsaber that just cuts through stone and you could,
people really hard stone with it.
It comes out of history.
So it's like, was this leftover from these times?
I don't know.
I don't know.
And it's, it's, I try not thinking about it in terms of diamond blades though is like,
it's like thinking about it, looking in the mirror.
Like, like we can't assume that they did shit the way that we do shit, right?
This is what we've been talking about with Randall for the past few days.
Yeah, it is.
And I think that's the right approach.
Like it's, it's a tempting and natural thing to, to look at a problem.
We look at these challenges and we go, this is how, this is how we would do it.
Fit it into our box and again, I just think that there's, there's avenues of technology
that we are yet to learn about, that we will know more about in time.
And, and, and I think it's, it's hard to do, but it's like, here's our perspective
and here's everything we know, but some of the answers might be out here.
Like it's just, and that's what being open-minded about it and, and, and not just dismissing
stuff and scoffing at it and then researching it with some of those possibilities in mind.
We might even learn something eventually from it.
That's, that's what I want to do.
It's, I'm going to, people always like, well, what, what is it and what, what's the speculation
of how it does.
You can speculate all over the place.
Chris Dunn's new book, if you've got to it, the Serapium chapter.
Yeah, I'm like a quarter of the way through it.
I got to finish it.
He does some amazing speculation.
I'm not going to spoil it.
Really?
Oh God.
I love it.
It's, it's, I, he sent me the Serapium chapter because I helped him with some stuff for it
before he wrote it and now I'm writing it like a recommendation for it.
So I've got the book too.
It comes out early next, new year, new year.
January or something.
January 24.
Yeah.
For people.
Get them salts, baby.
And then, and then, and, and he does, I just, I love where he goes with it, but it's the,
with speculation, it, you know, the world, it's an imagination at that point.
You know.
Does he talk about these lightsabers?
I don't, I haven't seen him mentioned specifically to Shamir.
He's talking about more about a potential technological application for the boxes.
Oh, a technological application.
Yeah.
Like what?
Something I've always thought about too.
So here's, here's another way to think of it.
And I like this idea too is that, and because this relates to, he does talk about this and
this isn't giving the game away here, but it's like, if you consider the idea,
you added like the concept of an assembler.
An assembler?
Like this is, imagine we, we get nanotech down to the point and this is entirely plausible
if you just project technology forward where you create these microscopic machines that
essentially assemble themselves or they can, they're almost like a von Neumann probe or
something like that.
But at the tiniest level where you can use molecular.
Von Neumann probe.
Yeah.
It's like a self replicating probe.
Imagine you say, and there's some interesting books been written on that topic.
Yeah.
It's like you send a probe out into space, but it has the capability to replicate itself.
Okay.
And just by using the material that it finds and then, you know, project forward a thousand
years and see what happens.
Yeah.
But imagine you get to the point where we have these like microscopic, microscopic machines
that can, they're assemblers that can take molecular material, even at the atomic level
and, and, and assemble things and even replicate themselves.
So you could build anything, but it's, it's being done with technology that's so small
and you can't see it.
Right.
There's, there's, that's this, this concept.
It's been proposed by a number of sci-fi authors and people that have thought about technology.
Yeah.
And it's like that's, that's one scale of things.
And the other scale of things to think about as well, if you, if you, you go out and you
think about, um, you know, Dyson spheres and things like that, that are, that are almost
galactic in scope or the size of a solar system in terms of a machine that does a particular
thing.
It's an, it's just an interesting way of thinking and looking at technology.
We look at it and we go, here's a box and how would we cut this box and make this box?
But, but it's, it's possible, whether it's plausible or not, I don't know, but it's possible
that the answers to some of these questions could be so small, we can't see them or so
large, we can't comprehend them.
Like that's just the nature of technology.
Right.
We just don't, you know, you can throw simulation theory into that too, the idea that we're
all just part of some simulation running on the computers of the future.
But that's, it's all, it's just projections of technology.
And I'm just, this is all pure speculation.
So it's, that's, that's one of the challenges with speculation is that it becomes this, this,
this just endless, endless imagination of possibilities.
But I do try to focus on sort of following the evidence and looking at what, you know,
some of the answers might be based on the, the evidence that we have in front of us.
And, and it's fun to speculate.
And I'm going to, I'm in the process of writing a book too.
And I will speculate, give my speculation in there as well about what it might be.
But I always try to be real clear about when I'm speculating.
Cause as soon as you speculate, you people are like, look, he's crazy.
You think the moon's a spaceship or something?
Oh yeah.
We did our last podcast.
We were talking about the moon and somebody took a video and made some crazy, some crazy
reaction video.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Got to love that react model.
I got to pee real quick.
All right.
He's a, they've really figured out their construction guys.
Is it two guys?
Russ and Kyle.
Okay.
Yeah.
They, they've really figured out some really cool shit on how some of this architecture
might have been made.
Cause you know, these blocks that go around the corners, you know how in like Giza, the
blocks kind of go around the corner, like where they're cut and then they go around,
they're not like cut and just bricks in the corner.
They curve around, but he's, they've sort of worked out how that was probably done.
And they have a really good method for showing people.
They've made some really astute observations on like how the pyramids were built and how
these big granite structures were built.
Do those guys go out there a lot?
Go with me.
Yeah.
I'll see you next year.
And I've taken them out twice.
Yeah.
The two times I've been to Egypt, they went with me.
Yeah.
So I like to tour with them cause we, we also jam.
Oh dear.
Yeah.
We play the, we, those guys are fantastic.
Well, particularly Kyle, amazing musician.
Um, I use some of, if you watch the, that Karnak video, the song at the end, did you
get to the end of it?
Like the, the, it's, it's, it's the most recent one, Karnak.
Right at the end, there's like a music, there's like a song at the end.
Yeah.
The last like 10 minutes of it is like a song.
Yes.
I remember that.
Yeah.
That's Kyle's music.
Oh no shit.
Really?
Okay.
Yeah.
So, but we jam and they're good.
I'm not, they're more like, it's, they helped me to manage the group.
And then also, I mean, they're just more social and personable than me most of the time.
Yeah.
I'm a bit more serious.
I'm happy to have conversations, but those guys are funny.
Yeah.
So it's great.
We, we work together really well.
So.
Yeah.
But one of the things like getting back to those boxes, I wonder like, was the technology
just so hyper advanced that like making something that precise didn't, wasn't a big deal.
Like if, if some culture came along a million years from now and be like, how do they make
this bottle so perfect and smooth?
Like, not because there was a purpose, just cause it was easy.
So like those boxes, was it just really fucking easy to do that?
Or, and the pyramid too, or was it for a specific function?
Like how can you make that box functional?
Well, I mean, there is a relation and I make, I have a long video on precision and there
is, and I said this the other day, I think too, as well, that there's, there's, there's
a relationship between precision and function.
Right.
You don't develop precision, developing precision costs money.
Like it costs resources.
You have to, you only do that for a functional return.
And when you look at the development of precision in the modern world, it kind of stems out
of the need for like old naval cannons to shoot straight.
The old days, you would, you would cast a cannon and then fire it while it's hot and
go, well, I guess that's the barrel and hopefully that thing shoots straight now.
And then they were like, well, we can make more accurate weapons if we actually, you
know, maybe cast it and then carve out and machine it like slowly use a water wheel and
turn out, you know, a cannon barrel to make it shoot straight or in that they started
to draw that relationship, then we needed to make chronographers, accurate time pieces
that help with navigation.
Like you longitude, we talked about longitude earlier, but it's very difficult to measure
latitude.
Okay.
You can use the sun for that, but longitude, you need accurate time pieces to be able to
know where you are on that East West times, time timeframe.
And in fact, the way we used to do it, it was, it was, you know, you'd go to where you wanted
and we'd basically move in right angles.
Like if people would sail to get somewhere based on, you know, navigational maps, it was
called like running down or Westing or running down and Easting, you would, you would, you
would get to where you want it on a latitude and then go that way until you hit what you
needed to, because you knew you could head East or West, but you weren't sure how far
you had gone.
And it wasn't until the end of the 17th century essentially that we developed it, accurate
enough time pieces to be able to navigate using longitude effectively.
You know, then, then, you know, progression or precision progresses into the industrial
age and steam engines and the, you know, the, the need to, to create containment vessels
for pressure and, you know, and that's now in the modern world, we've got, you know,
seven, seven Newton meter processes that we're developing, you know, silicon on and
you've got, you're packing millions and millions of transistors in complex logical circuitry
into a tiny little footprint, but that costs billions of dollars to do and we do it because
there's a functional return on it.
A long way around of saying that, that you develop precision when you're chasing a particular
functional return.
And I think that's what is one of the indications to me when you look at some of these precision
objects, particularly the more like the, just the, the regular ones, the boxes are a good
example.
I think that were functional and potentially some of the structures and even the sites were
functional.
And I think in order to get that functional return, they needed to make these things with
precision.
Now, in terms of the bottle that we looked at and industrial design, once you have a manufacturing
system that supports precision, precision is what you get.
Like today you get by toaster, it's going to, it's going to have, it's going to be industrial
design on a computer and it's going to be made in a manufacturing system that is just
by its nature, very precise.
Like it's all, you know, there's no panel gaps on it.
I mean, cars, look at the, the panel gaps between different panels on cars today versus
in the 1960s.
It's, it's, it's much better.
Like it's, you don't need it, but it's, it's a, it's a result of the manufacturing system.
So that's also an explanation that I like to use when it comes to the more abstract artifacts
like statues that show tremendous precision that look like they've been designed.
And then they've been executed in a manufacturing system that, that gives you that precision.
It gives you that perfect symmetry.
You know, it gives you these features that are like kind of hard to explain in isolation.
But, you know, I do, I do believe that, that they develop that capability to, to, to get
some sort of function.
What, what that function is.
I don't know.
Like that's where the speculation comes in.
Why, what was the function that the boxes did those, this is crazy correlation of the,
you know, these boxes in these pyramids or these boxes in these underground structures,
your Serapim is an example, the pyramids are an example, you know, the, even across the
Giza Plateau, the Asara shaft, you see these boxes underground and in these big structures.
I don't know.
I, I, I get the sense they're functional.
There's, there's infrastructure on these sites.
Mine at, at Sikara, at Abu Seer, at Dashor, at Giza.
We have evidence for very complex systems of what I can only call channeled blocks is
U shaped blocks that are below the floor level.
So you have these floor tiles that might be a couple feet thick.
In some cases they're even cased on top of that, but right down beneath that stuff, you
have this infrastructure of essentially piping that runs all under these sites.
It's all over the place at Abu Seer.
We see evidence for Giza Sikara, like all these old kingdom sites and not something you
ever see on the later sites.
These are the oldest of sites have these very strange and complex, essentially either that
it could have been housing piping, it could have been housing cables, it could have been
we don't know, but it's, and sometimes it's not all gravity fed.
Like sometimes they'll run all the way down beneath causeways to, to where there would
have been water.
And then it runs all over the site in complex patterns at Abu Seer.
It's probably the best example that there's Y joins and all these other things running
beneath the floor and sometimes using fairly exotic stone types like granite or white
calcite or alabaster.
And a lot of those stones show evidence for machining is a great example at Sikara of
machined alabaster U shaped channeled blocks that are beneath the floor tiles.
And it's, it's a real mystery.
We don't know why.
I mean, it's like, if you, if you ask the explanation for how what this white calcite
or alabaster was used, it was prized for its white color.
It's an expensive stone to try and use.
It's difficult to obtain alabaster and calcite comes from, you know, extinct and calcified
natural springs.
Like you have to, you know, these are millions of years ago were natural springs.
They've calcified over time.
And to get white calcite, you actually have to dig all the way to the, to like the source
of the natural spring.
So it's wherever that was, it's not, it's not like an easy stone to get to, you know,
further out from the source, you get sort of yellow calcite and brown calcite, but they
were using white calcite.
And, you know, Egyptologists say that, that, that they prize that stuff for its color,
for its clean color or it's sometimes it can be transparent.
In that case, what is this stuff doing buried beneath the floor level where it's never
going to be seen?
Like it's literally a stone type that gets used in this underground infrastructure that's
never seen.
So they must have been using it for some other purpose.
Like I think some of these stone types that you see, particularly in the really megalithic
stone sites have, might have had a functional purpose, like choosing particular types of
stone like basalt granite, limestone, white calcite, even quartzite in some places, and
in particular, orders.
And there's some other, there's plenty of other indications that there was something else
going on at these sites.
I mean, in my last video I did on Karnak Temple, there's some really interesting, there's an
area of Karnak that, that it's normally off limits.
Again, we know the right people to get in and see it.
And I love showing people this stuff every year is there's a, there's a part of Karnak
that where the granite's literally crumbling apart, this granite, it's granite diorite.
It's something's happened to the stone here where, where it's like the inside of the stone
has swelled or it's like it's undergone a transformation and it's expanded.
And it's almost around the edge of the stone is like this a couple of inches of where the
stone is in good condition.
But because the inside's like transformed and expanded, it's put this pressure on the outside
and it's cracked all of the outside.
And in some places it's like falling apart, like it's cracked the whole blocks apart.
And then the inside of the blocks just crumbling.
Crumbling from the inside out.
Yeah, inside out.
And so wild.
And then we see that also at Abyssir and other places where you have, you have like crumbling
basalt and this happens in nature, right?
Right.
But it takes literally millions of years of exposure.
Basalt and these other igneous stones that are formed in the heat of like lava and formed
over millions of years of compression and heat in the earth.
I mean, you can expose them to millions of years of sunlight and okay, they're going to
erode and degrade over time, but we're talking about cut surfaces of stone that are doing
that.
And it originally finished.
And so at Abyssir, for example, you have, you have basalt that's been, that's been cut
and then it was cased in limestone.
So it's like, you know, it was surrounded by limestone, but those mating surfaces are now
crumbling and falling apart.
Now, who knows?
I mean, is it, is it, is it, it's pure speculation, but was it heat cycling?
Was it, was there, was there something going through it?
I mean, I've, I do have a video where we were playing with like a, a very high voltage
electromagnetic sort of field generated device and we were testing different types of stone
and they have different electromagnetic properties like granite doesn't do anything.
You can get arcs coming off limestone and then some sort of an arc coming off basalt.
So they do have different properties under different conditions.
And, you know, is it possible that those were some of these properties of the stone were
things that, that were being chased by the builders for a functional purpose?
Right.
I love these ideas.
And I know Chris Dunn is exploring some of those in some of his theories and his work.
He certainly knows a lot more about it than I do.
Again, I'm just, I'm trying to illustrate that there may be other, there may be reasons
for that type of stone and some of those properties might have something to do with a possible
purpose.
So it's like, why would we not research that further?
Why would we not apply ourselves and, and try and see, you know, is there anything here
that, that could possibly provide an answer or provide a clue for why this was done this
way?
Let's look at those scoop marks.
Okay.
All right.
So I, you know what, let me just give me a second hole.
Now, when it comes to these scoop marks, is there any sort of idea or explanation on how
they, how they were made either by the, the Egyptologists that are there or by you guys?
I mean, yeah, the explanation for them is, you know, is, is that they were, that's pounding
stones.
This is, this is the pounding stone explanation.
Here's the quarry.
I love the, I love the part of one of your videos where you guys are filming that lady
with the pounding stone and she's trying to pound the grain.
Yeah.
Watch out, you'll break it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let me, let me pull up this and then we'll go to, yeah.
I also want to talk about Yusuf.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
We'll get into, we'll get into that.
That guy seems super interesting.
In fact, they let him like run around there and do, do guys, do guide people and tour and
explain all this stuff that goes counter to the narrative.
Yeah.
Yusuf's great.
I mean, I love Yusuf in just the fact that he has, you know, he has a, yeah, he's just,
he's such a knowledgeable guy and I do, he's, he's the greatest.
He's my, my brother.
He, I sort of hit the jackpot when I, when I met him and, and, and he's a superstar
for, for teaching people.
It's what he does.
It is absolutely what he does and I will swear to God, I will find these pictures here in
a second.
You said Yusuf has lived right there his entire life since he was a kid.
He has.
Yeah.
Yusuf, so his dad, Yusuf's dad was Hakim, LA one.
So really famous indigenous wisdom keeper and, and guide.
He's unfortunately a westered since then or he's passed.
He was the guy that was used by guys like Graham Hancock, Robert Boval, John Anthony
West.
Hakim's well known.
There's, there's lectures you can find from him online.
He's got, I mean, use of shop.
He's, he's sort of got pictures of Hakim from all over the world.
He met all sorts of interesting figures.
He's kind of been really well known, you know, as a guide.
And really interesting guy.
So Yusuf kind of followed in his father's footsteps.
He doesn't believe every, he doesn't believe everything that Hakim does.
And, and there's a, if you're interested in Hakim's theories, there's an author named
Stephen Mailer who wrote a book, Land of Osiris, I think it is.
And he was Hakim's student.
And he, I mean, Hakim was the founder of this modern, I guess you'd call it,
Kematology, this theory.
Kemet being the ancient word for Egypt.
And he was, he has a lot of interesting theories.
But again, I wouldn't, I wouldn't say that Yusuf subscribes to all of them.
He has his own theories.
He's done his own work.
Yusuf say, you know, he's a practicing stone mason.
So he works with this material.
He's a, he's a very talented musician as well.
Works with this material with his hands.
He's very well versed in, in traditional Egyptology.
Like he knows all of the rules that he can read hieroglyphs.
And yeah, he grew up literally across the street from the Sphinx.
In fact, it's still where his family store is.
It's in Nazlet El Samam, which is a little village that's right near the entrance,
the Sphinx entrance to the Giza Plateau.
And yeah, he's the, you know, the Ewan family store is right there.
And his balcony up the top, you're looking straight at the Sphinx
and the middle pyramid complex.
It's really cool.
What are some of the theories of that guy, that guy came up with?
Hakim?
Yeah.
Hakim has, here we go.
Um, Hakim has, uh, has, uh, I mean, one of the things I can talk about,
he would, he would, he thinks there was acoustical properties to a lot of these sites that they were,
some of these were sound hospitals.
Uh, in fact, he even ran one for quite a while.
Um, and they had, I mean, look, anecdotally, at least very good results.
They would, they would take people to these ancient places into some specific areas that have,
you know, resident properties and they would, I don't know exactly what they were doing in there,
but they had people that recovered from illnesses and I mean,
at least anecdotally from what I've heard, it worked.
And then, uh, as the story goes, as it's been told to me,
Zahir Was actually shut him down.
He stopped him from doing it.
Um, who was Zahir Was again?
Well, Zahir Was was the long-term, uh, like head of the Supreme Council of Antiquities,
or the department of Antiquities and Tourism, I think it's called now.
Okay.
Uh, he's, you know, notorious kind of figure that's, that's, um,
he had that debate with Graham Hancock where he kind of lost the cool.
He, he's, he's probably the world's most famous Egyptologist.
Certainly Egyptian Egyptologist, world famous guy, uh, written a bunch of books.
Um, you know, I've, I talked about him a few times.
I've met him a few times.
Um, uh, in fact, with the last trip to Egypt, we ran into him like four times.
Really?
Yeah. Yeah.
He was just there.
He was, he was at the, he was at, uh,
Is he a nice guy?
Uh, he's a charming, he can be a charming guy.
I suspect he probably, like, I don't know him personally.
Uh, I know some, he's treated a lot of people very fairly.
He's probably been less fair to others.
Uh, you know, I, I had no problem with him.
I mean, I was just on a tour and he was, this was the Graham Hancock tour where he was
supposedly debating him and we spent a day with him.
Um, and I think he's, he certainly had a history of being quite, um, in the part,
it's strange, you know, he, he, he really attacks a few of the, of the alternative
authors Graham.
I mean, in particular, Robert Boval, he doesn't like, uh, he, he's pretty fond of
saying that, you know, people are just charlatans trying to make money and they're
all pyramidiots and stuff like this.
But back in the day though, he was quite friendly.
And in fact, I've seen a picture of like Zahi and John Anthony West and Robert
Boval and Graham Hancock kind of arm in arm at the Sphinx enclosure.
And he certainly, uh, has, has enabled some interesting research to happen.
Um, privately a few times, I had a video about the, the Sphinx temple that started
to get into some of that with, uh, you know, there's a, there's a, an interesting
correlation and at least these allegations of, of, uh, of connection between him and
the Edgar Cayce foundation.
Do you know who Edgar Cayce is?
The American prophet.
Okay.
So there's a, it's, this is an interesting story.
So Cayce was a, was a, was a prophet and a lot of people made a lot of money based
on his predictions for the stock market back in the day.
And, uh, and he ended up, he, he, he had these visions and wrote a couple of books
and one of his visions entailed the, you ever heard of, you've probably heard
of the hall of records, right?
Yes.
Okay.
So that comes, a lot of that comes from Cayce.
He talks about the fact that there's a hall of records and one of the locations
is three of them, I think.
And one of them's the location is one of them is under the, the poor of the Sphinx.
And then there's another one that's supposedly under, I think it was, um, I mentioned it
earlier, it's, um, Mount Nemrut, like the Nemrut tumulus pile, which is an insane site
that I also saw for the first time, uh, this year.
But, you know, so he's that foundation.
There's a, it's, it's the ARE, I think it's the association for research and
enlightenment is the, is essentially the Cayce foundation.
Okay.
And they've kind of been involved in, in, in private expeditions to Giza.
They've been looking, right?
They're trying to, they're trying to, they're trying to satisfy Cayce's prediction
about the, the, the hall of records.
And they have been essentially digging and looking around at Giza and these other places
since like the 1970s.
Now, Zahi is very much against the anything Atlantis related.
He's, he's like, there's no ancient civilization.
So in publicly facing, right?
He's, he decries any of that type of thing.
But he did also grant like the Cayce foundation, like a five year permit to do unlimited
essentially digging and excavation on the Giza plateau, including in the great pyramid.
And so it's on one hand, you sort of decrying all of this, this, um, you know, anything
lost civilization.
And then on the other hand, you're enabling essentially an organization who's stated
goal is to, is to prove out Atlantis and that there was a hall of records and everything
like that.
Not only that, but Edgar Cayce's son, Hugh Lynn Cayce, who wrote it, he wrote a book
and in that book, he claims, and I will say that Zahi Oasis denied this.
He claims that, that the Edgar Cayce foundation funded his education, like they paid for his
education at Pennsylvania university.
They found, like he literally says in the book, and this isn't me saying it.
He said that he found Zahi who was a site inspector at the time, like not, you know,
like lower ranked kind of guy.
And, but he was pliable and agreeable and they thought he was someone they could work
with.
So they funded his education along with Mark Lainer, who's been a long-term partner of
Zahi Oasis.
And, and that went through the Pennsylvania university.
They got him his doctorate.
And for sure it's verified like Zahi has had an engagements with the ARE plenty of times
he's gone and spoken at their events.
You know, he's been part of it.
He goes back there and lectures quite often.
You know, it's just strange to me that he's associated with an organization like the ARE
which has, has done these secretive digs and, and there's strong evidence as documented
by Robert Boval, which might be one of the reasons that Zahi doesn't like him so much.
He's documented the fact that Zahi's been enabling kind of secret expeditions, dig,
digging and drilling around the Sphinx since the 1970s.
Like there's, there's kind of one acknowledged drilling effort that they made to look under
the Sphinx.
I think it happened in the mid 90s thereabouts.
And they were, they were drilling under the body of the Sphinx.
And they were, the stated goal was, oh, we're checking the integrity of the limestone bedrock
given the water tables rising, blah, blah, blah.
But there's plenty of evidence for, for a bunch of other drilling that's happened,
like as far back as the late 1970s.
And there's pictures of, you know, Hewlin, Casey and Mark Lainer and Zahi Oasis from those times,
like a young Zahi, they're all together.
And then in the, in the, in the mid to late 90s, he enabled something called the shore expedition,
which was Dr. Joseph Shore, a couple other people.
Boris Said was one of them, but they're all ARE members.
They're all part of the Casey Foundation and none of them are Egyptologists or archeologists,
but he gave them a five year permit, open permit to do whatever they wanted up at the,
up at the Giza Plateau.
And they did a bunch of stuff.
They did a bunch of excavations around the Sphinx and Zahi was involved in it.
And they even made a documentary that's never been seen.
So Boris Said, who was a filmmaker, he's also since died.
And I dug into like these old Art Bell radio episodes from the 90s where he was talking about it.
They had a, he had a falling out with, I think Joseph Shore, the guy that,
that was funding the experiment or the expedition.
And just based on this fallout that the documentary kind of went into limbo and it's never been seen,
but apparently it's part of it.
And they, they had gone in under the Sphinx and looked at chambers and Zahi at the time,
Boris Said, they found chambers beneath the Sphinx,
like they 100% found chambers beneath the Sphinx.
By the way, also a claim made by John Anthony West and Dr. Robert Shock.
When they, they analyzed the area with ground penetrating radar, they found chambers beneath the Sphinx.
And at the time when they were doing this experiment, Zahi said,
Oh, we've got this incredible announcement and discovery.
It's going to shake up the world's history.
It's going to, we're going to change what we know about the,
the sort of the structure of the Giza Plateau and what's down below the ground.
He was teasing it.
And then this documentary kind of went away and he's never said anything about it since.
And in fact, to this day denies that there's any chambers or any structures or,
or, or things beneath the, beneath the Sphinx.
He, they, he, now if asked, he'll say, well, he, yeah,
they found fish, natural fishes in the rock and there's nothing else, which is nonsense.
I mean, Boris Zaid's on record and saying, no, I've seen him.
Like he's been down there and seen him and been in them.
Well, it's kind of what he says. Yeah.
And then, but it's very secret.
It's all private, privately organized and permitted by, by Zahi West.
And so it's, it's, there's an interesting history.
I think, look, I think if there are chambers down there and if there's anything in them or there was, it's long gone.
Like I just, I think it's been pilfered or it's been, it's been taken.
It's been, it's not public.
I mean, there's, there's also a chance that if there was ever anything in there,
and the Egyptians or the dynastic Egyptians might have taken it,
there's a couple of people with theories along those lines,
like Manu Saifazada wrote a book, I think called Beneath the Sphinx,
that, that talks about the idea that, that the Hall of Records may well have been there,
but it was discovered by the old Kingdom Egyptians who took it.
And then there's some evidence that they were replicating some of that information and knowledge
through a particular cult that persisted through dynastic Egypt.
And, and it's an interesting story that he puts together.
It is new data, but it seems likely that they're indicating some really interesting information,
like the spacing of planets, the relative distance of planets in the solar system,
all this cosmic information that it seems like they didn't really know what to do with,
but it was information that they'd gotten from, you know, this trove of data from a lost ancient civilization.
And it's just they, there's them were replicating it and kind of recording it down in their own way.
And there's all these interpretations of this stuff that seems to match all of what we know about the solar system and the structure.
So it's, it kind of goes, there's all these different directions that stuff goes in.
And I'd love, I've been meaning to do a more dedicated sort of deep dive into that shore expedition
and the history of secret digs around the Sphinx.
Because, you know, the Sphinx and the Sphinx temple, it is, it is like it's described as a gateway.
Like there is a lot of legitimate reasons to think that there's something below that structure in that part of the Giza Plateau.
Like even the way it's historically depicted and talked about from ancient Egypt,
like they, they often, when they draw out the Sphinx, I mean, they show it on a pedestal.
Like it, the Sphinx is always depicted in these stellases most of the time on top of a pedestal.
And in many of those pedestals, there's a doorway.
And then the Sphinx is often described as a doorway or as a guardian, a guarding a doorway and into the underworld or something like this.
And, and when you look at the Sphinx, there's, it doesn't, it's obviously sitting on the bedrock, right?
But you have to imagine there's, there's a structure in front of it that's next to the valley temples on like the left looking at the Sphinx.
Then there's the Sphinx temple in front of the Sphinx and the Sphinx is behind it.
Now, the Sphinx temple has been shut for public access for, I don't know how long, like Yusuf, I mean, he's in his forties.
He's never been in there until we got to go in there on one trip.
We were probably one of the first groups to ever, and thanks again to the people I know in Egypt who arranged this through the Ministry of Antiquities
to finally open up access to the Sphinx temple as a special permission.
And we went in there, very interesting structure, amazing, there's amazing granite cornice blocks and all this stuff.
But if you'd imagine it back in the day with its cornice blocks, which are these curved blocks that would have been around the edge of it
and you'd looked at it from, from down in the valley towards the Sphinx, it would have looked as if the Sphinx was sitting on top of the temple,
which makes the Sphinx temple potentially the location for the pedestal of the Sphinx, which has the doorway to the underworld.
Now, in the Sphinx temple, when you go in there, there is indeed evidence for shafts that go down.
There's these, again, these giant, there's like an 80 ton channeled granite block in the ground beneath the floor tiles that have since been removed.
That terminates at a shaft that goes down to, we don't know where, that hasn't been cleared.
And it, but it obviously goes underground. And I mean, not only that, but at the front of the Sphinx temple, if you walk back,
if you, if you're standing there at Giza and you're looking at it, it's where the, like where the seats are for the Sound and Light show.
Sort of off in the corner, about 30 or 40 feet in front of the Sphinx temple, there's a little concrete pad and there's a, there's a,
there's a metal tube sticking out of it like this, just off the ground, just sort of unobtrusively in the corner.
That's where Zahi Iwas himself did a drilling experiment. So they drilled down like 150 feet.
And this is a limestone plateau. And at like 150 feet or 130, something like that, they hit granite.
They just drill, hit granite and return these shards and flakes of red granite from 130 feet below the ground.
And there's not natural granite there. So what the hell is down there that deep?
And it's made of granite, right?
Whoa.
I mean, half, yeah, it goes on and on. Like you go halfway up the, up the plateau, up the causeway, like connects the Sphinx and the,
the valley temple to the middle pyramid complex, right? It's this big causeway, it goes up to the pyramid.
Halfway up, it is what's known as the Osiris shaft.
This is three different levels that you can go into. Again, it's a special permission.
There's water at the bottom, but there's three chambers that go down to about 150 feet and there's big granite boxes in them.
And they should go down there, right?
And there's tunnels that literally lead off down the causeway that have never been explored at the bottom level.
They're caved in and stuff, but they've never been explored.
There's, there's footage of when they did pump the water out back in the day when they're exploring it.
And there's, it was like a fox, I think it was on the Fox channel.
And Zahi was down there with a reporter and saying, oh, this was the tomb of Osiris or whatever.
And she's like, well, what about these tunnels?
He's like, no, we've never explored them. We sent a boy in and he couldn't get very far, but we've never looked at as to where they go.
So, like, there's definitely underground chambers and infrastructure down there.
And we honestly don't know if they've been explored and if, you know, there's anything in there or F, you know, what's happened, which is.
And what do you think his motivation would be to change his story on that and keep all the secret excavations secret and all the secret exploration and not to change the narrative?
Like what, what sort of motivations would he have?
I don't know. I mean, I mean, if you know that I think it's the typical, if there's any motive and his pure speculation, I'm not claiming this or that I know it.
And I will probably reiterate that Zahi's denied that he has any connection to the area.
For sure he was involved in these expeditions. I mean, there's plenty of people who talked about him doing, being involved in these expeditions.
And again, all of this happened, like, you know, 30 years ago now.
But yeah, I mean, what motivates people, right? It's money and it's power and it's all these sort of things. I don't know.
I don't know. And, and it's, it's, I don't like any real conspiratorial angle on these things in terms of, you know, fine stuff.
And is it hidden from us because it doesn't conform to the story? I don't know.
I'd like to think not. I'd like to think that if they found stuff, they'd, they'd talk about it regardless of if it had a significant impact on the story of history.
But.
Well, doesn't he make money quite literally from people visiting Egypt and exploring?
Yeah, I mean, he's, he's, he's made plenty of money. I mean, I don't know how directly he's, he's a very powerful figure in Egypt.
I'd say this. He's, he's also done a lot for Egyptology.
I mean, he champions the returning of objects to Egypt, which I think is a great cause, particularly if then, I mean, if they're in private hands and people can't see them.
The stuff that gets, I mean, Egypt's been pilfered by everybody for so long.
Yeah, you were saying much of this stuff has been found in Israel, right?
Oh, it's all over the place. Yeah, all over the place.
There's, there's, yeah, I mean, there's, there is, there is stuff that, I mean, you don't have to go back to just Israel, but you go back to the Americans, the French, the English.
I mean, during all the periods of occupation, the last several hundred years of anyone who's been involved in the governance of Egypt.
I mean, you know, I think Matt Simpson just did a video or some, no, Luke Kavins actually did a video talking about how the British Museum is essentially full of artifacts that were stolen from Egypt.
I mean, one of the sticking points is that the original Rosetta Stone is in the British Museum.
It's been there for like 200 years.
But it's, you know, I look, I'm, I'm like, if it's in a museum somewhere and people can see it, they have, they have people to understand the scope of artifacts that have been found here too.
There's, there are warehouses absolutely full of this stuff in Egypt.
Like some of the tombs in the Valley of the Kings are like, they fill them up with all the artifacts they find in other places and lock the doors because it's essentially climate controlled.
And I hope, and I've yet to see it, but they're building a giant new museum.
It should be just about done by now, the Grand Egyptian Museum, biggest museum in the world from what I understand it's going to be.
And I really hope that they have enough space in real estate to show us all of the artifacts that have, they just haven't had the space to show.
I mean, there's so much stuff in Egypt and that's been taken from Egypt.
And even then, even despite all of this, even the Egyptologists and Dahi will say this as well is that, is that it's like 70% of it is still underneath the sands.
Like he thinks that we've only, we've only maybe uncovered 20 to 30% of what's out there.
So there was, you know, there's a lot going on.
But yeah, look, I don't know. It's an interesting sort of story to dive into with the history of some of these excavations.
And like I said, it kind of goes back to my point about the pyramid earlier where I hope that whatever they do, and I'm sure somebody's planning it, they're going to go and try and look for this chamber.
I'd love, I would very much hope that it gets shared with the world. That's all I'm wanting.
And it's like, share that information, let everybody see it. I mean, it's part of everybody's history.
You know, I don't care who makes money on it or doesn't, but it's just like, I think a lot of people would be interested.
What is this right here?
So this is the obelisk.
This is the unfinished obelisk. And you talk about scoop marks, there's a few of them on top of it.
Oh, wow.
And in fact, you see some of the characteristic pounding stones there as well.
And in fact, yeah, that's probably a better look.
And some of these scoop marks are, you see on the right here, on the left of the thing as well.
And then all the way down, the, what do you call it, the, what is this, man?
Why am I, why is my brain not working?
Here.
The trench.
There you go.
I just needed to look at the smelling.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, so this one is still, this one was never actually pulled out of the quarry, right?
This was started and never completed.
That's right. Yeah, it was, it's not actually, in fact, it's not, the trench isn't quite deep enough.
Actually, you look at some scoop marks, see them on the right here as well, on the wall.
So what's interesting about the scoop marks, and I don't know if I have other examples in this particular.
Is there any explanation like of how this could happen naturally, those scoop marks, like from degradation?
It's not natural.
It's definitely not natural.
It's, it's not degraded.
So the explanation for this is, is that this was the quarrying technique.
You see this, you see this on the quarries, you see it around the artifacts where they've been quarrying things.
And it's not a, it's not a natural phenomena.
100%.
It's, it's, they say it's been made by these dollarite pounding stones, which honestly is, it's one of the silliest theories that's out there.
So they found at the site though, they found a lot of these dollar, dollarites are harder stone than granite.
You know, you will eventually grind away and remove some granite if you pound away hard enough.
And again, studies have been done on, on kind of the, the removal rate of stone using dollarite pounders.
But, and I cover it in my video, one of my videos about the quarry.
There's, there's a lot that's, that doesn't make sense when it comes to this particular quarry.
And in fact, if I take a look at where's the Isis quarry stumps.
So I have videos here.
I'm sure I've got some.
Okay.
So you can see a number of different quarrying techniques in play at the, at the Aswan quarry, the oldest being.
How far is that obelisk from the Giza plateau?
About 500 miles.
Okay.
So that's, that's generally the, so this is like the general characteristic or layout of it.
And you see these scoop marks all over the place, right?
They're all on the floor where they've been used to, to, to move stuff.
You see those other forms of quarrying too, in higher layers, you'll see chiseling and you'll see wedge and chisel.
But you also have these test pits.
Now I probably have, this is probably not the best example, but,
Holy shit.
So these test pits that go down, some of them 30, 40 feet, they're like cut straight down into the stone.
They're like, they're like a, I don't know if I have a better example here.
Most of my stuff on this is video.
But, oh, here's one.
So here you go.
So see, this is like, they have to put a grade over the top of this.
And this is done using those scoop marks as well, which is, which sort of starts to belie the challenge.
Like, how do you get in there and pound, you know, crouched down and it's barely wide enough or broad enough for a person to, to stand in there, let alone get down on, on their, you know, crouched down and pound it on the floor and then remove the material out.
These go straight down.
And what they're probably for is they're probably for testing the quality of the granite.
Right.
When you, when you're looking for a giant single piece of granite, it's not, you're not going to find that at the surface of any granite outcrop because the granite's inferior up there.
It's going to have cracks.
It's going to have defects.
When you cut down into the core of these quarries, this is where the highest quality stone is.
It's got the large quartz crystal inclusions.
And that's where you can find stone of a quality good enough to, to cut like a single piece block that isn't going to break on you.
Right.
So these test pits would have been dug looking for like, how deep do we have to go to get these blocks out?
Which is, opens up, opens up a whole bunch of other problems because they, a lot of Egyptologists don't credit the old kingdom Egyptians with the ability to quarry granite.
It's sort of ridiculous.
Yeah.
And, and you see tons of, let me, this is more of the test pit here.
These are really cool.
But you can see how it was done.
Good God, dude.
Yeah.
It's, the quarry is really, really interesting.
Here's some good scoop marks, actually.
This is, you start to see stuff.
So in some areas, there's really interesting particular block.
I probably have it here.
Do I?
Okay.
This is, this is probably the best indication of it.
So it's tough to see.
I don't know if you can see that.
Yeah.
So there's an unfinished piece that's not the, not the big one, but there's one on the side.
And so what, and it's, it's sort of cut out and it goes in underneath.
It goes in underneath the.
What's your wildest guess on when this was all done?
Oh, so I think some of the stuff has done wildest guess is, I mean, I, you know,
I, I would open up the range from 50,000.
I mean, I don't think it's necessarily just before the younger drys cataclysm put it that way.
Like that's a, it's a possibility that the civilization that might have done some of this might have been ended by the younger drys.
But I actually think given the extension of the human timeline, given the possibility that it may not have been just us,
it might have been other species of hominids potentially involved.
I don't know.
I open up that window to like potentially hundreds of thousands of years.
What do you mean other species of hominids?
Well, Denisovans, Neanderthals, we have a complex genetic history.
So us ourselves, our species is now out potentially 800, 900,000 years old.
That's based on teeth morphology studies into teeth morphology studies into like when we split from a common ancestor with the Neanderthals,
like our DNA train from a fossil record where we, the oldest human remains are like 300,000 years old.
But a couple of recent studies looking at the rates of dental evolution and our DNA put the window much further,
like towards a million years, but you know, 800, 900,000 years.
We're also finding that our, our, our history is more complex.
We have, you know, the discovery of the Denisovans or the Denisovans is a fairly recent thing that gets a whole other species of hominid.
And there's some evidence of tool use and even sophisticated tool use.
There's a jade bracelet that is a Denisovan artifact that has drill holes in it.
And the one other thing that I've learned recently that I always, I always thought that like Neanderthals couldn't talk.
Like that was, I thought, you know, our studies and what we found of Neanderthals,
the larynx and the structure of their throat meant that they couldn't talk.
I think that's recently been reversed.
I think now there's evidence that they could in fact talk.
And we don't know anything about the Denisovans.
We literally have a couple of bones that we're working from, like a pinky bone and a couple other pieces, I think.
So we don't know if they could talk.
And you kind of need speech to organize and for civilization.
At least we do it verbally.
I mean, Graham Hancock might argue that maybe some of their telepathic communications might have been some other mechanism.
So just again, in, in speculation, I don't rule out when you consider the concept of a lost ancient civilization.
I don't, I'm not saying aliens, but I think it could certainly have involved other types of humans.
We've got all the elongated skulls as well in South America.
That's a real interesting phenomena.
You know, Graham would, I've heard him talk about the fact that some,
that some of those people that they may have had other faculties that created or achieved some of this stonework.
I prefer...
What did he say about that?
Well, he, he, I mean, he gets attacked for this endlessly.
But he, you know, he says that it's possible that they achieved some of the things they did through other mental faculties,
not just telepathy, but telekinesis and stuff like that.
I mean, there's stories that just seem to go along those lines.
I prefer to take the technological angle just given that we have the evidence for some of the tools and powerful tools being used and achievements being made like these thousand plus ton statues.
I mean, God, I think I was telling you at dinner last night that, you know,
there's a quarry in Egypt that had they disconnected that one limestone block, it would have been 5,000 tons.
Right.
You know, there's stuff up to that scale that seems like they were working on it.
And it's crazy at the Minya quarry.
So I don't rule out the possibility for a lost ancient civilization that it could have involved other species of human, of hominids.
Like we're one.
We're the last humans left, right?
There were other humans.
We killed off the rest of them.
We're the last humans left.
Are you aware of the evidence?
I'm really fuzzy on this, but there's some sort of evidence that was found that basically says that our DNA or the telomere on our DNA,
the telomeres have been like capped or something happened where there's evidence that like a pre-civilization could have possibly had a lifespan that was like 10 times our lifespan or something.
There's some really interesting...
There's like a very stark difference between our DNA and the DNA that was found in what was it compared to the DNA and what?
Probably in chimps and other closest relatives.
So I'm not 100% familiar with the telomere that I've heard that, but I've always been fascinated by the work of guys like Lloyd Pie.
Lloyd Pie, that's the guy, that's how I heard about this.
Yeah, so Lloyd Pie is interesting.
He has a great lecture online called Everything You Think You Know Is Wrong.
He was probably more well known for being the keeper of the Star Child skull, which is this interesting artifact,
but he was genuinely interested also...
Star Child skull.
Oh, that's a whole other rabbit hole.
Let's keep you on. Let's not get you off track.
It's interesting, but he was interested in human origins and human evolution as well.
He wrote a book called Everything You Think You Know Is Wrong,
and I will say that he does do the whole Anunnaki thing.
He does go down the route of...
What's his name?
Who wrote 10th Planet?
Sitchin.
Sakurai Sitchin.
So he sort of follows that, but I don't think Sitchin is correct and I'm not really a believer in the Anunnaki stuff.
Oh, really?
No, I think Sitchin was pretty comprehensively debunked with how he translated his deliberate mistranslations,
and it's a long story with Sitchin, but not to say that that possibility isn't ruled out.
The work that Lloyd Pie did made it interesting from the perspective of a potential intervention theory,
which means that he was hinting at the fact that we might have been genetically engineered as a species.
And there's some evidence, at least from a genetic...
He was looking at the evidence to support that.
I think we have... I'm going to get this wrong.
We have a different number of chromosomes than other species, than our closest relatives.
Right.
And when you look at the DNA structures, it almost looks like they've been tied together and kind of engineered that way.
There's a few genetic oddities about our species that Lloyd Pie was suggesting might be indications that we've been engineered.
So it gets into that in detail.
It's been a long time since I've read the book.
And this flies in the face of evolution.
It does in a lot of ways, but there are sort of other examples.
I don't know if it's horses or something like that that have a similar chromosomal difference.
It's not the only thing he points out.
We're a weird kind of species with some of the diseases that we have.
He talks about the fact that we're one of the only species that dies of exposure.
It's like we're not well engineered for the planet.
Have you ever seen a dog just looks at the sun?
Like it's eyeballs that just look at the sun?
Don't look at the nuclear explosion. You'll go blind. No, they're fine.
We go blind if we look at the sun. We don't have very good night vision.
We die from exposure if we're left out without clothing and shelter and all those sort of things.
We have a bunch of really weird genetic diseases that other species don't seem to suffer from.
I mean, there's even some deficiencies in our genome that...
We're so far away from every other wild animal. It's insane.
It is. And that's always been true.
The whole missing gap idea is you'd actually need like a dozen missing links or the missing link.
The idea that, oh, there's a missing link in the chain of evolution to get to humans.
You'd need more than one.
To go from our nearest ancestors and Neanderthals to us is a huge jump.
And it's actually, he points out that in a lot of cases it gets obfuscated by the way they lay out skeletons.
By making skeletons of Neanderthals look more humanoid in terms of they space out the neck
and they don't show it like it was where they had no neck in their shoulders were kind of much closer to their head.
There was this huge genetic and evolution gaps between us and our nearest relatives.
Not in a number of different areas.
So he gets into that and it's an interesting idea.
But I don't know. I don't know how to explain it one way or the other.
I do rate the whole intervention theory as a possibility.
So either the O.G. intervention theory, which is life itself, panspermia, like DNA itself coming to this world by intervention,
or by just panspermia as an accident, like comets could well be the progenitors of life in the universe.
We're learning more and more about the fact that the amino acids in the building blocks of life could be contained in commentary material in those icy cores
or even if they're radioactive, they could be liquid cores.
Liquid water could be carried by these things, which could contain the building blocks of life.
And it's really interesting to think that this is the mystery that's at the origin of life altogether.
And we're definitely creatures of this planet too, I'd say that.
We trace our DNA, we're part of the tree of life of this planet.
But it's the one, as far as evolution's gone from single cell organisms through the dinosaurs to us,
the one part of that that's never kind of changed, that's never evolved is DNA itself.
So the way that life gets expressed as a technology, the DNA, that's never really changed.
Like DNA as a technology has not changed.
It's changed this expression, like it's the forms and the life that it creates has changed.
And there's a real mystery at the point of origin of life, like how DNA came to be.
This is an ongoing field of research, there are people trying to figure this out.
I personally think it's quite unlikely that it was a bunch of proteins and amino acids in some warm water that got hit by lightning and boom, there's DNA.
It's a very complex structure.
And even by saying that, oh, okay, so life might have been seated on this planet,
either like Prometheus style, where the aliens came and said, sprinkled some DNA in the river and where we go,
or it just arrived on a planet from somewhere else.
All you're really doing is kicking the can down the road.
Like it still had to start somewhere.
But it's a possibility.
I wouldn't be surprised if Panspermia was the origin of life on this planet.
Could have been another civilization, I don't know.
And I think there's some interesting lines of evidence and interesting thinking from people about the idea that it could have been a more direct intervention into evolution later on in time.
I'm not saying I believe that, I just think it's interesting and it's tough to rule out some of those possibilities based on the evidence.
Especially when you look at some of the stuff that we're looking at here and the stuff that you've discovered.
I mean, I think with beyond a shadow of a doubt that we have proved that you and people like you have proved that we're not coming from off of a linear timeline.
No, I would agree.
At least technologically.
Yeah, I would agree.
So let's see if I can show this to you.
It's hard to see.
I wish I had these photos.
Maybe I can pull up a video or something.
Which one?
So are you looking at that new 5,000 ton obelisk?
No, no.
If you want to see that, I do have a picture of that.
I would just say that with, I would finish off the quarry discussion by saying that with the scoop marks.
So one other thing I'd just like to point out to people is that, you know, these are regular lines.
You actually see it here.
I think it's not a bad example.
They start like these scoop marks start and they're consistent and linear and they go all the way down and they actually go up and underneath this stone.
So the stone's being quarried out the one in like in the foreground here and they go all the way up and under.
So it's like this one continuous tool mark.
I have a long video on the scoop marks that gets into the details of why this isn't the pounding stone hypothesis isn't a plausible example.
And I think it's telling also that if you look at the quarrying methods that they will show you in the quarry.
Okay, there's pounding stones, which is literally with a pound with a stone or rubbing on it with a stone.
And then you go up in sophistication to the wedging chisel approach that I talked about where you hammering wood into like you make these grooves and you hammer wood in.
And then the other example is, well, you actually have straight chiseling where it's later in time and you've got hardened steel.
You've got long steel chisels and you're banging it in and you're just like carving the rock and then splitting it.
So you can think of that as a sophistication goes up.
But what they're extracting and the stones that they're taking out is the absolute opposite.
They're using those other methods to take smaller pieces and little pieces off the sides of things.
But that pounding stone method, the most primitive one is also the one supposedly responsible for the biggest goddamn pieces you can find.
Like it doesn't make any sense that their most primitive technology is the one supposedly responsible for the thousand ton artifacts.
And there's a good example of just how old that is.
If I go back up to my podcast images, we go back to the quarry is in this area here.
So this is what's known as the harbour in the quarry.
You can't normally get in here.
I don't know. One time we wandered down here and we're in here.
And supposedly this is where they would park the boats and they call this the harbour.
And it's not a harbour.
To me, what you're looking at is the remnants of a trench for a giant object.
So look at this thing.
So this is a piece of stone that was probably extracted from here.
You see the scoop marks along the side.
I think it's as big if not bigger than the unfinished obelisk.
And it's in this lower area.
I'm standing there and it's called the harbour now.
But I think you're looking at what is left after they've taken something out using this scooping technique.
What's interesting about it is that it's got painting on it.
It's got all these paintings of ostriches or some people say they're flamingos.
And there's all this painting on it.
And what gets even more interesting about that stuff is when you compare,
you look at this style of this artwork that's on this area.
So it keeps going down here and all of these walls are gone.
The closer wall to us has been quarried out entirely.
But this was a big trench and this huge piece of stone was removed.
That type of artwork, and I've got many more examples than just this,
it matches this stuff.
Now this stuff is a style of painting and artwork that is very much associated with pre-dynastic times.
Before the dynastic civilization ever started,
the artwork that's on the wall in that quarry matches the pottery and diagrams and drawings
that we see on pottery vessels that come from pre-dynastic times,
that have been found in pre-dynastic burials.
So what this infers to me is that that artwork done in that quarry was probably done in pre-dynastic times.
It was done using the same art style.
They used a much different art style.
There's other carvings in the quarry where the Egyptians did their thing, you know,
the more dynastic, typical kind of hieroglyphic and artwork.
This red ochre paint with the style of carving, these birds on this thing match the birds in that.
There's a bunch of other examples of it.
It means that it was done in pre...
I think it was done in pre-dynastic times,
which also tells you that it was done on the wall that was left after they pulled that block out.
So you had to have pulled that block out first to even expose that wall.
Right.
And then it gets painted on.
So how long ago did they pull that block out of there?
And yeah, it's crazy.
Good God.
So I wanted to finish...
I just wanted to make that point about the quarry.
Yeah.
And I do have a video that dives into that giant block that's been extracted there and the connection to that artwork.
Let's talk about the vases.
There's a lot of new shit going on with the vases that you've been looking at.
There is.
We talked a lot about the vases on the first podcast we did and the incredible symmetry involved in making those vases
and the fact that they're extremely thin.
You can shine a light in them and you can see through them they're so goddamn thin.
And they're made out of some of the hardest rocks on earth.
And they still say that these vases were made during those times with chisels and pounding stones and all that stuff.
Right.
Even after you've come out with some of your videos and some of this stuff, no one's acknowledged it officially.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, nobody's looked at...
Nobody's really said that...
I mean, the hypothesis for how they were made at least in the mainstream has remained the same, which is...
It was people rubbing on them with rocks and banging on them with flint.
Nothing like that.
So made by hand.
And again, to speed run the vases, it's like they exist and they go back to well and truly pre-dynastic times.
In some cases, there's evidence of them going back to burials as far as 14,000 years ago.
Right through pre-dynastic times.
And then they've been found in times, basically during the Old Kingdom, up to about the fourth and fifth dynasty, most of them.
The majority of them were found beneath the steppe pyramid, like 40, 50,000 of them, which is a third dynasty structure.
Then they kind of peter out after that.
There's a few examples of vases that come from later periods, but we identify them as coming from those periods because they have very poorly scratched hieroglyphs on them.
Right.
I mean, we talked about that earlier.
But these are incredible class and category of artifacts, like made from all sorts of exotic types of stone.
Like I said, we talked about them before, perfect symmetry, extremely thin.
Petrie found one that went down to one-fortieth of an inch, which is I think the quote that I've got here from him.
One of the other things I always like to point out is that they're often found.
We talked about imitation earlier.
Painting them.
This is where you would find them and they're ascribed to the same person because they're found in the same burial.
But you have a hard stone vase here next to a hand-formed pottery vase that is painted to look like granite.
This is not a turned vase, this is hand-formed.
A lot of people, even when you get into the details of arguing about this, the people are like, okay, they made them on a lathe, but it was just a simple lathe.
Because the idea that you're turning the stone to get these results, I'm like, okay, so if they had lathes, why didn't they have the pottery wheel?
The pottery wheel was a much simpler application of the wheel than a lathe is.
But it's just a facetious sort of argument to suggest that these came from the same people.
I think they're inherited and they're older.
But what's happened, and there's lots of evidence, they go way back in time.
Lots of them discovered they were inscribed.
They were definitely reused and inherited.
There's a depiction of how they were made that was found at Sakara.
This is what they used to basically say, this is how they were made.
It's basically like bent sticks with weights on the side and flint tips.
This guy's got his hand in the middle of it.
Yeah, he's rubbing at it with a hand.
But what they're showing you here is the vase making industry that happened after the Third Dynasty.
It's the alabaster vases.
It's just white calcite.
It's a three-on-the-mose scouts, much softer.
And we have lots and lots of examples of beautiful alabaster vase work.
But it's very simple.
It's not simple.
It's awful.
It's not precise.
You don't see the same symmetry.
They're off balance.
They don't have the same properties as the very hard stone vases that seem to come from earlier times.
So what's happened though, since I talked to you last, was that we've finally been able to take this analysis to a new level.
We've finally been able to get our hands on what is a privately owned pre-dynastic rose granite vase
and subject it to structured light scanning.
This was the first step we've taken.
This happened at the start of this year, of 23.
And we've since come a long way since then.
And structured light scanning is a process where you're basically 3D scanning it with lasers
and you can basically create a model of the artifact down to the accuracy of about a thousandth of an inch.
So take an inch divided up into a thousand pieces.
A human hair is between two and three thousandths of an inch thick.
A sheet of printer paper, maybe five or six, something like that, thousandths thick.
So where accuracy is down to less than half the width of a human hair.
So it creates an extremely accurate model of the vase.
Now, once you've got that model, you can start to do some interesting analysis on it.
You can start to look at, okay, how precisely was this thing made?
And that's exactly what we did.
So this is the vase.
It's actually only about yay tall.
It's like six inches tall, maybe a little tiny thing.
And that's it being scanned.
And once we did that, there were a couple of professional metrologists and these guys work in the aerospace industry.
They make parts for jet engines and turbines and the space rocket ship stuff.
These are professional engineers.
They're professional metrologists and metrology being the study of all the science of measurement.
So in those fields, you use these techniques a lot in those fields.
And it's very important, right?
We want to make things precisely.
And this is a good example of precision enabling function.
It's like turbine blade manufacturer and stuff like that, like efficiency of jet engines, all that sort of stuff.
These guys work for one of those companies and this is what they do on a day-to-day basis.
So they analyze the scan and they ran it through a coordinate measurement system.
And what they found was just astonishing, like the results and looking at just how precisely this thing was made.
Absolutely astonishing.
And in particular, it's not just the precise nature of the surfaces themselves, but it's the interrelation of one surface to another.
So making the different parts of the vase be perpendicular or parallel or perfectly aligned with other parts of it.
So the way this works, it's fairly complex, but we can sort of step through it.
The first thing to note is the vase itself is an ellipsoid.
You can't match it to a regular geometric shape.
It's not a circle.
It's not a sphere.
It's not a cone.
It's an ellipsoid.
And what you want to be able to do is match geometric shapes or regular shapes to parts of the vase so that then you can do geometry on them.
You can calculate center lines and center points and how perpendicular or parallel are they to other parts of the vase?
So things like this.
So we essentially start by creating an XYZ three-dimensional grid, which helps us derive things like center lines, axes, and then we can start to compare the other parts of the vase.
So the way you do this in a CMM system is you match geometric shapes to parts of the vase.
Now, you could do that with five, you could say like, all right, we're going to match a flat plane to the top of the vase, the lid, and we're going to use five points to do it.
It's not going to be very accurate.
It's not going to represent that surface very well.
But if you do it with thousands and thousands of points, the more points you use of reference, the more accurately it's representing that surface.
So you'll see in these slides the fact that we're using thousands and thousands of points.
So in this example, there's nearly 4,000 points of reference has been used to match a flat plane to the top of the vase lip to the top surface.
And then the measurement we're doing is like how close to perfectly flat is this?
It's within three thousandths of an inch.
So it's very flat.
Like that flat, the flatness of that surface is within three thousandths of an inch of being perfectly flat basically.
So very close, very, very accurate.
Around the width of a piece of hair.
Yeah, yeah.
That's just the top.
So then you can go further from that.
Now we can look at, all right, let's look at the vase mouth.
So this is that round part on the inside of the neck of the vase, if you like.
And so what we're doing here is we're measuring it with a cylinder.
As you can see that on the left of the vase mouth there, there's a little cylinder icon.
And we're using like 10 and a half thousand points to match it, which is, which is a lot.
I mean, this, this actually has got some damage on the inside of the neck to this vase.
And we can match it looking at the cylindricity.
So how perfectly cylindrical is that?
It's within 13 thousandths of an inch of being cylindrical.
But now that we've, this is, this is on, I'll speed up a bit on this because now that we've got the, that top surface,
you can think of that as like an X axis.
And if you think of a cylinder sitting in the neck of this vase, we can now, because we've matched the cylinder to the surface,
we can, we can say, okay, how perpendicular is that cylinder to the top surface that we just managed?
And we call that the top surface is control surface A.
All right. So you can see like the perpendicular measurement, how perpendicular is it to control surface A?
And it's within one, it's one thousandths of an inch.
One thousandths.
Yes. So it's basically perfectly perpendicular to the top surface.
Now, top surface is A. And now we've got this vase neck, the cylinder in the vase neck and the centerline of that vase neck.
We can call that the axis of the vase and we can call that control surface B.
So now we can measure every other part of the vase relative to the top and the neck.
And that's what we do.
So we go on to measure like, all right, you can match a sphere to the lower part of the vase body.
And we did that using like nearly 80,000 points of reference.
So it's really accurate.
And then what you can do is you can, with that sphere, this is worth talking about for a minute.
This is the highest number we saw in the whole report.
It's seventeen thousandths of an inch.
So the center point of that sphere is basically within seventeen thousandths of an inch from the centerline of the vase.
So it's like a couple sheets of printer paper basically away from it.
Now, it seems like a big number relative to the other numbers, but this is telling you a lot more than just like how close is that centerline of the sphere.
What spheres are interesting, like if you took a sphere and you deformed it at all, like small on the bottom or you pushed or whatever,
it's going to shift that center point dramatically, right?
So what this is telling you is not only is this seventeen thousandths is no joke, like that's extremely close.
The exact center point of that sphere is really close to that centerline of the vase.
But it's also telling you just how regular that shape is.
Because if it wasn't regular and that part of the vase that matches a sphere, if that was at all deformed, it would shift that center point all over the place.
So it's telling you that it's not only is this very close to the centerline, extremely close, it's almost perfectly spherical in this section.
So it's a section of a sphere, that blue line, right?
That's the matching of a sphere.
It's very, very regular.
It's regular to the point where you couldn't possibly achieve it with hand tools by hand or by eye.
Imagine you're carving on that and again, they don't credit the old kingdom or certainly not pre-dynastic times with the use of the lathe.
But even if they had a lathe and even if you're using like a tool rest and you're trying to do this by hand, you're going to be a million miles away from this result.
This is genuinely not achievable by hand.
This incredibly regular shape.
It's a phenomenal achievement.
And even though that's the biggest number you see in this report, this represents something that would require some of the very best machinery we have today to replicate, even in other materials like acrylic or stainless steel or aluminium.
And this is in rose granite, which isn't a regular material, right?
The hardness changes microscopically as it goes through the material.
We get other results with same things.
We're matching a cone at this point to the vase bottom.
And this is the other end of the vase from the top and the centerline.
And we're within five thousandths of an inch of being perfectly perpendicular with the top.
We're within nine thousandths of an inch of being perfectly parallel with the centerline using 60,000 points of reference.
Like this is, it's infinitesimal.
It's so ridiculously well made.
It's not, is what we're seeing with this, right?
Jesus.
So this is, it gets interesting even with the lug handles.
And this gets into some of the, some of the details around how this might have been made.
Because you can imagine like turning this on a lathe.
You can't really do the lug handles, right?
Right, exactly.
You know, if this, if this thing had lugs on it and you were spinning it this way, you can't, you know, you're cutting it as it's spinning.
You can't really create the lug handles.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. They add those after in modern times.
Yeah, you'd have to, well, these aren't added.
They're part of one piece.
They're part of one piece.
Exactly.
Yeah, so you would have, you'd probably have to leave a bull nose and come back with a different procedure to make them.
But we can do things like compare the, the lug, the match a cylinder to the lug handles, compare them to A and B, which we're doing here.
And we're within a thousandths of an inch, like one and three thousandths of an inch.
So incredibly accurate relative to the, to those, to these axes of measurement that we're taking.
And then we can compare them to each other.
We can create like, all right, we can make one of these called reference surface F.
And we can, we can measure the other lug handle relative to it.
And again, we're within, you know, five or six or seven thousandths of an inch of being perfectly aligned.
What is that parallel with the other, the other lug handle?
Not only that, but it's like the tops of them.
Like there's actually a video of us spinning this thing on a, on a surface and, and having like a, like one of these precision tolerance gauges that measures in the thousandths of an inch.
And you sort of zero it out on one lug handle and you spin it round and it just zeroes out on top of the other lug handle.
Like they're perfectly the same height on the thing.
And that also speaks to the flatness of the bottom because it's turning relative to the flatness of the bottom of the base, which we didn't measure.
But that's the fact that you're zeroing out this gauge.
It's in some of the videos.
It's manufacturers and machine, it's, it's hard to explain it.
Machineists and people that understand these, these sort of measurements will understand it better, but they'll get it.
But it's interesting to think, all right, so assuming you have to, you've left a bull nose, right?
To create these lug handles.
You have to come back with a different tool and you've got to carve away that area of the vase body between the lug handles.
So what, what about that part of the vase?
Because they can't be made on a lathe.
It has to be made with a different process, right?
And so we looked at that.
We looked at the actual area of the vase between the two handles.
And we found the same level of precision.
And this is truly remarkable.
He's 20,000 points of reference.
We looked at, we matched a cone to look at how, how, how close is the centerline to the centerline of B, like that centerline of the neck of the vase.
It's within 5,000ths of an inch.
This is really remarkable because in today's manufacturing processes, when you change tools
or you change the process, it introduces errors.
Like this is accounted for in, in, in our modern manufacturing processes, things like making turbine blades and stuff like that.
We understand that tools and process changes, introduces errors, and we don't see that sort of error here.
We're not seeing it.
So it leaves you, it leads you to one of two conclusions.
One, they, whoever made this was able to handle tool and process changes better than we can.
Right?
So they could, they could deal with changing the process and the tool and just not have the same degree of error that we'd see.
Or it wasn't made on a lathe.
It was made in a single pass, which means that you're talking about five axes of freedom.
It's a mill.
So think about those CNC mills as computerized mills that can carve a sink, like a complex object with one tool tip.
You either, it's one of those two things.
It has to either be like 3D printing.
Not print.
This is, no, as far as we know, this is reductive.
Reductive, right?
As in we're, we're like taking it and carving it away.
Right.
Okay.
Yes, obviously.
Yeah.
Geopoly, the idea.
I don't mean, yeah, right.
That doesn't make sense.
But think of, think about like a CNC mill, like a complex five axes of freedom with an arm.
Yes.
That's computer guided.
Like that's, that's the, that's, that's one of those two things that comes out of this analysis.
And it's the fact that there's no perceivable lack of precision between the vase handles is, is amazing.
So, and this is just the start of the rabbit hole kind of thing.
Like it got, it got crazy from here.
This was a lot of fun because we, we made this, we made the STL file, like the model available online and sort of open sourced it.
And there's a cryptographer from, from Denmark named Mark Kavist, who runs this website called unsigned.io.
Really interesting guy.
I've spoken to him and he undertook essentially a deep sort of mathematical and geometric analysis of the vase.
And, and he found some just utterly remarkable aspects of it that I think have some extremely startling conclusions.
And he kind of started by looking for like, all right, what, what are the other geometric patterns that we can see in his vase?
So, so what can we see in it?
And so, you know, he kind of started and he found that it actually does encompass some of the sacred geometry that we were talking about with Randall the other day.
The things like the circle of life that there's, there's actually two circle of life grids that are in here and you can see them this way.
So if you look at the, the blue circles that measure at point D, that's a grid based on the maximum internal diameter of the vase.
And you can also see that grid matches the very top of the vase with the point A.
So it's a, it's a, it's a circle of life grid that matches the internal diameter, it matches the top of the vase.
And then you have another circle of life grid that matches the, it's, it's on, that's based on the external maximum diameter of the vase.
It also matches other points of it.
And this is kind of where he started.
And he found that that it created, not only were these his geometric patterns in it, but there's a bunch of these mathematically significant ratios and even algorithms and interrelationships between this, this, the shapes in the vase to the point where you could define it with a single algorithm.
And, and it, it, the overall point here is he's proving that this vase was designed like these degrees of interrelationship between these features in the vase aren't accidental.
It had to have been designed and then somehow executed in granite with just astonishing precision.
So one of the base principles that he found, he's sort of reverse, he's taking the object and he's reverse engineering it.
Like we're looking at it and he's trying to find out what was used, what is the, what is the philosophy, mechanism, mathematics behind this vase?
And the more you dig, the more you find.
So one of the fundamental principles he found in the vase is the use of the radian or particularly the one radian angle.
So this is a little diagram showing you what a radian is.
It's a simple way to, to, to express an, an, at any angle, right?
You go, you take the, the radius of a circle, you apply it to the circumference of a circle, the radiate, the, the angle that it forms when you draw lines to it on the inside is one radian.
So if you, you know, there's a two, you can measure, you could call something a two-radian angle, you could, half a circle is pi radians or 3.14, et cetera, radians.
And there are two pi radians inside of a circle.
So it's, it's like a, it's just an elegant way to describe any angle.
And you can see the use of the one-radian angle expressed here.
So, so the one-radian angle kind of defines the, the curvature and the, the angle of the top of the vase.
It just, it based on that circle of life grid center point, you can, you can see the one-radian angles kind of defining the placement of the handles.
There's a number of different uses of the one-radian angle.
And from that, he discovered something else.
He discovered that not only is there, are there radians in this thing, but the radian is the basis for an algorithm that can be used to describe all of the curvatures used in the vase.
Now this is, this gets a little, you don't have to understand the mass to understand the significance of this.
The most widely used shape in the vase is the circle.
Like sections of circles are used to describe the, the curves on the vase, the little tiny curves on the insides of corners and stuff like that.
Now the radius of these circles, so the size of these circles is very tightly interrelated with each other.
And it's only these radiuses.
Like this, if there's none of these, the size of these circles are accidental.
They're all tightly related to each other and they can be expressed with a single elegant equation that Mark was calling the radial traversal pattern.
And that's the equation right there.
But what, what this is telling you is that if there were circles or curves of a different radius, of a radius that there's none of it.
There's nothing here that doesn't fit this pattern.
So it's only the circles of this size that fit this pattern.
It's based on, it's like it's, it's users radians, but it's, it's, it fits this radial traversal pattern.
Right.
So you can see it's up to like, there's like 14 different or 12 or 14 different circle radiuses that is radi, radii that are used.
They're all related to each other.
They're connected to each other through this algorithm.
There's that 4-3-2.
4-3-2 is here as well.
Yeah.
And so this is, this is the point to take home is this isn't accidental.
You might be able to find one or two degrees of, of mathematical interrelationship in an object by accident.
But to, to, to define, to find 12, like 12 tightly coupled degrees of mathematical interrelationship in an object like this is not accidental.
Mark actually said in the article, said it'd be more, more likely for you to wake up one morning and have an entire new universe, like quantum universe
sprouting out of your left nostril than it would be for this to be an accident.
It's not accidental.
It was designed.
And in order to prove this, he went ahead and said, you know what?
Let's make a model.
We're going to go into CAD.
We're going to build this vase using just this algorithm, using these circles with this algorithm, make it perfect.
And then I'm going to compare the vase model to the CAD model that's built using just the math.
And he did that.
And the median radial deviation, so the difference from the actual model of the scan, the scanned vase to the model he built using the math
was nine micrometers, which is 0.3 of a thousandths of an inch.
Like that's the average deviation.
0.3 of a thousandth.
So like a 10, there's three, ten thousandths of an inch, which is at that point, we're talking about degrees where we don't know if it's an imperfection in the scan.
Right.
Or even in the vase.
We don't, you can't tell you at the limit of resolution at this point.
Of what we can measure.
Yeah.
So you got to also remember here that some of these circles we're talking about, they range from about 42 millimeters in size down to 1.1 millimeter at the small end.
So you have circles, arcs of circles that fit this pattern that are 1.1 millimeters in radius, which is kind of crazy, right?
Very small.
What was Randall saying when you pulled this up the other day?
He was like kind of freaking out.
He was.
I don't think he's watched all of the videos.
I'd love him to see it.
I want to talk.
I haven't had the chance to take him through it yet.
And I'll probably do that in Montana here.
But he was kind of losing his mind when he saw this because he saw something very similar with the radiuses of these circles compared to some of this plasmoid technology that he was talking about.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think he would, this other stuff was interesting too, the fact that other than the radial traversal pattern, we also see pie, golden ratio.
It was the other sacred geometry put in here.
So the image on the left shows you pie to within 0.1 of a degree.
The image on the right shows us the golden ratio square to within less than 0.1%.
I'm sorry, not degree percent, less than 0.01% accuracy with the golden ratio.
There's actually, the golden ratio shows up in a number of places.
I've just used a couple of examples here.
It also has encoded, encodes pie to within, you know, 0.1%.
Can you explain what the golden ratio is for people that might not know?
I don't know, golden ratio is the aspect or the ratio of the universe.
The golden ratio is a fundamental principle of the world.
It seems to be an encoded ratio that is encoded from DNA up to the formation of galaxies.
It's 1.6, et cetera, et cetera.
I can't actually remember exactly what it is.
It's a ratio expressed by living things that also can be found by basic geometry.
We went through it with the Randall Carlson podcast about how to define the ratio.
But it can be expressed in the human body in terms of how it grows from, you know,
the length of your hand down to the gap in your wrist here.
That's one part of the ratio.
The other part of it is down to here.
The ratio is a line that is dissected where the ratio of the small to the large
is exactly the same as the large to the whole, right?
So it's hard to think about, but it's like take a line.
The point where you dissect it, where the ratio of size is of the small piece
where you've dissected it, the ratio of that to the larger piece
is exactly the same as the ratio of the larger piece to the, oh, so it's like A and B.
B to A, A is to A plus B. That's the equation for it.
And it's expressed in life, right?
Everything that grows organic material, the human body, conch shells is the famous one.
It's the Fibonacci sequences attached to this.
You take a cross-section of a DNA molecule, you find the golden ratio.
It's in the spiral helix of the DNA molecule.
It's in the structure of galaxies.
It seems to be a fundamental constant of the universe.
And that's why I think the fact that it gets expressed in these artifacts
and in fact, this sort of geometry, even radians themselves,
they're showing us, the builders of this are showing us that there's a language behind this.
They're showing us their capabilities.
This vase is, to me, represents something of almost like a time capsule.
It's like something that's sent through time to us
that is expressing the degree of knowledge and understanding that its creators had of the universe
and of their system, even their system of mathematics.
I actually have a slide on this later, but I want to finish talking about the vase
because there's some interesting implications about the maths that we've been going through.
I'm not doing it just for the sake of maths, but come back to that time capsule idea in a minute.
When you think about the design of the vase and how it's been made very precisely in Rosegranate
and there's a mathematical design that's behind it, we get to a point where we're like,
alright, so the precision, the complexity, the depth of interrelation between the features really rules out random chance.
This artifact was 100% designed.
And it's like, okay, so how could you design this?
Can you design it on paper?
Remember that there are circles that have a radius of one millimetre basically.
Imagine if you were trying to draw that at Scout,
try and challenge anyone, try and draw a circle with a compass that's got a radius of a millimetre
and see how you go and then be able to execute that down to the thousands of an inch.
Remember it's made extremely precisely.
You might be able to draw it out on a piece of paper that's as big as the room,
but then you still have to scale it down somehow.
It's got to find its way to an output somehow.
You've got to be able to carve this thing in granite somehow.
I think the best way and Mark proved that the best way to design this is mathematically.
It's designed with the mass.
We can express it with an equation.
Once you've got that equation, you've got that mathematical design,
you have to then do the same thing.
You've got to get it to output somehow.
So how do you take it from a design to an output and into an output of a system that is extremely accurate?
Just be able to make something like this in rose granite would require some of our very best precision lays
or precision mills.
You're talking about extremely sturdy and firm bearings and rods and turn screws.
There's a whole lot of capability in this.
It's been made with astonishing precision.
The fact that we know that because of the area between the vase handles, it's extremely precise.
They didn't lose positional calibration when they changed tools to make the vase handle
or it was made on a five-axis mill in a single pass.
This is kind of where that evidence and logical leads.
I like to quote directly from Mark's article where he wrote about this.
This is what he said, quoting Mark,
For all the knowledge and insights we've accumulated over the ages, we know of exactly one and only one category of things capable of such behavior.
The kind of thing that we refer to as a touring machine,
a device capable of taking input, holding state, performing operations on held states,
according to predetermined principles,
and producing output.
Now you can make touring machines mechanically, pneumatically, electronically, hydraulically,
but we call this class of device a computer
and no plausible way of representing, operating on or manufacturing the design of this artifact exists.
He's saying that you cannot have made this without the use of a touring machine, a computer,
be able to take that design and produce the output to get the result that we see in this.
That's a very interesting statement.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
I think that's a good point.
That's a very interesting statement.
That's a mind fuck.
That's what we like to call a mind fuck.
Yeah, and it did fuck with the mind of one of these engineers that did the original analysis.
I remember we talked about the metrology at the start, one of these aerospace engineer guys.
Yes.
So Mark does this and this guy's name's Nick and he called me up.
He's like, Mark puts out his article and you sort of, it took me, you know,
you got to read this article a few times and figure out the math and try to really digest it and see what it means.
And for me, you know, this is validation.
I'm like, this is magic.
This is confirming some of the things that I've long suspected and I've held this particular worldview for a while that,
all right, there was technology in the past.
Nick, you know, he was amazed by the metrology.
He was like, this thing's incredibly precise, scratching his head, didn't know,
but it wasn't until he really sort of chewed on Mark's article.
He's like, he calls me up one day and he's like, dude, I have to talk to you about this.
This thing is, it's keeping me up at night.
It's like, I wake up in a fucking sweat thinking about this vase because you could tell it had kind of shattered his worldview.
It had like changed.
He's like, I can't explain this or rationalize it without this type of technology, what the hell was going on in the past.
And he said something to me that I was like, I put into a slide here, which I thought was really interesting.
Some of the things that I've said that I think this artifact is much more than just a simple vase, right?
It's encoding sacred geometry, which is the very fabric of a universe.
And I think it's telling us a tale of the creator's capabilities, their elegance, their knowledge systems, right?
Even their mathematical systems, like they might have a base radian system rather than a base 10 like we use,
which is an elegant mathematical system.
But what Nick said to me is like, you know what this reminds me of?
He said, it reminds me of the golden records that are on the Voyager space probes.
All right.
So when the space probes went out in the 1970s, they had these golden records on them.
And it wasn't like we wrote this information on there.
We used mathematical principles, geometric principles.
We even used the radioactive decay of, I think, uranium atoms to provide a launch clock.
We gave them all these clues based on different principles and maths on these vases to try and convey information about our species,
about who we were, about what we knew.
And we sent the goddamn things out into space.
I think this vase, it seems to be something like that, but instead of going through space, it's been sent through time.
It's like one of these golden records has been sent through time to us.
And if we have the ice to see it and the ability to decode it, there's all this information that we can glean from it
and we can learn something about the past from it.
And that's what Nick was telling me.
I was like, that's a fantastic analogy for it.
And that's truly what it is.
The deeper we look, the deeper this rabbit hole goes on this thing.
And yeah, the crazy thing is too, this is now, this was the start of the year we did this and we're working through it, but it's not the only one.
You guys did more vases?
We're doing more vases.
We have literally 20 or 30 more that we're working on now.
Early results, we're seeing similar results for a lot of them, even better in terms of the pure metrology and precision.
Like some of them are zeroing it out on like the thousandth scale.
What?
We're also measuring stuff in CT machines now, which can go down to the micron.
So even like, you know, 25 times more accuracy than the structured light scanning.
Yeah, I think very interesting.
It's, yeah.
So this dude you were hanging out with the other day, he has like a ton of these vases.
Do you have that?
Can you show that picture?
Yeah.
Of you with all these vases?
Yeah, sure.
Is that the first time you put your hands on one of them?
It's the first time that I've, here's me holding one here.
This one actually is translucent.
You can see through the light right through it.
But this is the collection that we're, some of his that we're working on.
We've been, I've been extremely fortunate and I do want to, I'm not going to name names,
but I'm very grateful to people that have been inspired by this vase work and they've,
and they have the means and the ability to go out and collect these things like this
because, you know, these are artifacts that can be bought on the antiquities market.
And they cost a bomb, obviously I can't do it.
But I mean, I'm extremely grateful.
Well, some of them, I mean, up to like $70,000, $80,000, $100,000,
the more provenance the better, usually some of them as low as like a few thousand dollars,
but mostly the good ones, you know, you're talking five figures, if not six.
And yeah, I'm very grateful too that they're willing to have them looked at and analyzed.
Of course, the goal is, the goal is to get into the museums and to look at some of those artifacts that are in there.
I would, we're working on, you know, creating a standardized process that we can then propose to museums
and we have some very good interactions happening and we're very hopeful that in the very near future
we'll be able to get into some museums that do allow this type of research.
They're willing to work with us, Petrie Museum being one of them.
They've got a number of artifacts that would totally fit within this knot.
And I think this technology and this technique is not, we don't have to use it on vases.
I'd love to see it done. We want to scan those drill cores that we looked at earlier
and really define that spiral groove.
We want to be able to, I'd love to see this used on boxes and statues
and be able to really do complex geometric modeling and analysis for those things.
So I think we're just on the tip of the iceberg when it comes to learning more about these artifacts.
The statues at the Luxor, for example, those things were analyzed similar,
not obviously under those techniques, but Chris Dunn pointed out that those statues at the Luxor were perfectly symmetrical.
Yeah, and the way we've done that is with photographic and photogrammetry.
But even the smallest, the relatively small statues, six foot statues,
I think we could scan down to this level of precision and we can define just how precise they are, how regular the curves.
I think there's tremendous things we can learn with this technology.
And I think that's exactly what I'd love, I think we should be doing.
Because who knows what it'll turn out.
I just think we should be following the evidence wherever it leads,
and no matter how much it kind of upsets the apple cart in terms of the established story of history.
So yeah, it's really interesting stuff and this has been a huge project this year.
And for people that are waiting for more vase file STLs, they're coming, the analysis takes time.
Like this stuff doesn't happen overnight, so the process is ongoing.
I know there's some interest in writing a paper.
We were looking for scientific papers probably coming.
But for me, it's the first time I think we've genuinely got some very hard evidence now
that is very hard to argue with about significant technology being deployed to make these things.
Because the challenge is out there.
I would love anyone to make one of these.
Like go make one.
If you think you can do it by hand, go for it.
If you think you can even machine it with a tool made out of acrylic, go for it.
If you think you can get down to these numbers, and trust me,
machinists and people that work in these tolerances understand just how well this thing is made,
I want to see it.
I would love to see people attempt to make it and even come close,
because I just think that we're a lot years away from this idea that these things were done by hand at this point.
And again, remember, these go back to pre-dynastic time.
Do you think there'll be any sort of attempts to suppress the kind of stuff that you guys are looking at,
or dismiss it?
Yeah, there's already people dismissing it.
What are they saying?
What do they say about it?
Well, mostly it's been like, oh, the vase is fake.
It's a fake vase.
Alex Dunn, so one of the engineers is Chris Dunn's son.
He's in my videos about this.
I mean, that's the only thing they can come up with that I've heard is, oh, the vase is fake.
It's like, you think the provenance on this particular vase goes back to the 1980s.
Some of these vases provenance goes back to where in terms of they have a known history.
Go back to the 1800s.
But even in the 1980s, I think you'd be challenged to make something that precise out of rose granite.
And if you think you can make it today that precise with that much of all of that maths that's behind it and everything else,
try and make it and try and see how much that costs you to make it and then try and justify that by the cost.
It's going to whatever you think you can sell it for on the antiquities market.
It's actually damaged.
The thing, it matches almost perfectly.
In fact, to the eye, exactly lots of pre-dynastic vases that you find in the Cairo Museum.
In my video, I show a bunch of them.
It is the same shape and size as many pre-dynastic vases.
Obviously, there's a variety of shapes and sizes when it comes to these artifacts.
But I mean, just calling it fake is about the best argument anybody's been able to come up with because they can't handle...
Fake how?
Well, somebody manufactured it and I mean, things do happen.
Like people make, try and sell fake artifacts.
But it's ridiculous to think that you could do that cheaply or it's not...
Look, this is not something that's made in some backyard workshop in China or India and then mass production sold on the market.
It's ridiculous.
If you think it's fake, try and make one and see if you can get anywhere near it and how much it costs you.
I just think it's a facetious argument with nothing behind it more than the desire to dismiss this because it doesn't match their worldview.
No one's arguing with the metrology.
Like nobody can challenge the metrology.
The scans out there are available.
It's public information.
You want to do it and you want to figure it out for yourself.
The scans right there.
You can make the same calculations, mark made.
You can measure it for yourself.
You can stick it in a CMM and work out the date of yourself.
So it's all repeatable.
But the best people can come up with it.
It's fake or sacred geometry is woo is the other thing I've heard which we talked about in detail with Randall.
Like sacred geometry is not woo.
Sacred geometry is the universe.
It is the fabric of the universe and it's knowledge of that is what essentially comprises the mystery schools.
And this is like the way you see the world.
The idea that sacred geometry is woo, that's the only other thing I've heard.
It's like, oh, as soon as you see the flower of life, forget about it.
It's crystal pippy nonsense.
It's just people that don't like what it means.
Right.
And they just are seeking any way to try and discredit it.
I throw shade at me because, oh, the crazy ideas that guy has or whatever.
It's like, I don't care.
And I'm going to, I think all these other vases are going to put proof to all of that nonsense too.
Like there's vases here that are being scanned that had provenance going back to the 1800s.
In fact, funnily enough, one of these vases that happens to be on this table and is owned by this collector
and is being scanned and analyzed happens to have been brought up in one of the videos that were made.
Like debunking this work as an example of a real vase.
So we'll see what this real vase actually looks like because he picked the dude picked a silly example
because turns out this guy owns that vase.
It's provenance goes back to the 1800s and we are going to scan it because it looks to me like it's going to show some similar properties.
Which one is it?
It's the back on the back one on the right here, I believe.
The big one?
Yeah, the big one here.
Yeah, this guy.
So the guy made the debunking video about that particular vase.
He used that as an example as a fake vase.
No, as a real vase.
As a real vase.
So assuming the first vase we scanned was fake.
Oh, this is what a real vase is.
I'm like, okay, bro, let's see.
I don't know what results it's going to show.
I will say that not every vase shows these properties.
There are handmade vases.
They did work on it.
It's often a visible difference between the ones that show these sort of precision properties versus the ones that don't.
Most of the handmade stuff is alabaster, but there were still handmade hardstone vases as well.
And you can usually pretty clearly tell the difference.
It's a fascinating space.
Are they all found in Egypt?
There is some actual artifacts from around the world that I'd love to see subjected to some of these, this process as well.
But in general, yeah, I mean, a lot of this stuff.
I mean, they got, and I would like to scan other artifacts like Roman things.
And I mean, typically there's not a lot of hardstone artifacts like this that seem to display these levels of precision that come from other cultures.
And obviously the technologies that they were using were getting better too.
But I'd love to scan them and compare them because I even primitive lathe made stuff.
I don't think it's going to come anywhere near the precision of these.
I don't know of any particular examples outside of these things in Egypt.
This seems to be a pretty common magna fuente bowl as maybe a few others that I'd love to see scanned.
But yeah, I think this technology is applicable for lots of different artifacts.
Yeah, there are like time capsules from a previous civilization of aliens trying to teach us something.
But what are they trying to teach us, Ben?
They're telling us that they knew, man.
I think a lot of it is an expression of, I mean, we're not trying to teach whoever the hell finds the Voyager probes, anything.
We're just trying to let them know that we were here.
We were here.
Yeah, we had it figured out.
Well, bro, you got to catch a flight.
I do at some point, yes.
So in about five minutes, you got to get out of here.
Okay.
So thanks for coming, dude.
We fucking killed it.
We did a whole flurry of podcasts this weekend.
We did.
Very enjoyable, man.
Thanks for bringing me out again.
Always great to see you.
Hell yeah.
Where can people find out more about what you're doing?
Keep up.
Obviously, I mean, sure, a lot of people are listening already know, but for people that don't tell them where they can research you online, read, you know, I don't know, your book's not out yet, right?
Nope.
Yeah, I'm working on another.
It's probably going to be a little while for the book.
But yeah, Ben van Kirkwijk is the name if you want to look me up.
But otherwise, UnchartedX.com or YouTube.com slash C slash UnchartedX.
I'm also on Spotify on Rumble.
You can find all my videos on Spotify.
Like I said, I'm on Rumble.
Wow.
Yeah, no, I'm throwing stuff on Rumble too for now.
But you can almost, I'm on social media.
I'm not super active on there, but yeah, Twitter, Instagram, that's all that's linked on the website and pretty much in all of the videos.
But yeah, YouTube's the main place.
Yeah.
You're engaging in some of the Twitter drama going on right now.
I don't play that.
Man, if I, I wouldn't be on social media if it wasn't for this stuff.
But yeah, there was some, I did, I did get some enjoyment out of some of the things that still happened on Twitter yesterday.
It's so funny that people, there's people on Twitter just for that stuff.
And there's people like you who are just on there just to show the stuff you're doing in the real world.
Yeah.
It's so funny when you see those two worlds collide.
I ain't got no time for social media nonsense.
Like honestly, I don't care.
I'm not spending time on social media looking at what people said about what.
Yeah.
I think, yeah, Twitter's meant for arguments.
It's literally engaged for conflict.
It's so stupid.
That's its nature.
It's fine.
Yeah.
Cool, man.
Well, I'll link everything below.
And thanks again.
We got to get you back.
Are you working on anything new right now that's coming out soon?
Or what do you got going on in the pipeline?
I am actually, I'm taking another look at the Serapium here shortly.
I've just got back from England.
We didn't even talk about the stone circle stuff.
But that's a lot of research involved in that for me as well.
But yeah, a new look at the Serapium is coming up.
Plus I haven't really done a video talking about the Osiris shaft.
I have like there's some other structures up there in Giza that are interesting.
South America.
Yeah.
I'm always working on things.
There's another vase video coming about the recent scans and some more data coming about those.
Were you filming when you were down there in Sarasota?
Yeah.
I mean, yes.
That was a chance for me to see these things in person.
Handle them in person.
It was the first time, as we said, that I'd ever got to handle them like full units.
You can get, you can find pieces of them in Egypt and like beneath the step pyramid.
But yeah, the first time I actually can handle them.
Yeah.
It was a thrill, man.
I'm really thankful to that guy for letting me play with his toys.
Tell him to at least put a seatbelt around him when he's driving around on his Porsche.
Yeah.
He had one might have fallen off the front seat of his car.
I wasn't there.
He said it's fine.
It's made of granite.
It's not going to.
I mean, the fat ones are probably okay, but some of there's one in here that's like
translucently thin.
It's kind of like that thing.
You don't want to break it.
Jesus Christ.
That was an expensive one too.
Wild shit, bro.
Well, we'll get you back in the next year.
Cool.
Thanks again and goodbye, everybody.
