When I, when I originally called Jim Diuginio, I asked him, is there anyone that you can
think of that has more information on this than anyone else?
If there was one person you can pinpoint that is the encyclopedia on what happened in on
November 22nd, 1963, who would that be?
He said, you are the person, probably the only person that has been through the millions
and millions of documents classified and unclassified.
I wanted to start this thing off by bluntly asking you, after the years that you've spent
researching this, to date, what is your opinion on what happened on November 22nd in 1963,
who was involved, why was the president assassinated, and why is it still being covered up?
It's going to be a subject of my last volume on the JFK series, but I won't give you the
same answer I give everybody else when they ask me that.
Go ahead and solve it and save me some time.
I'm actually going to go to Duquesne University this fall in November, and I'm going to actually
talk about my current view on what happened on November 22nd, 1963.
So it's a coup, it's a coup d'état, and the thing that people get messed up with is there's
a tendency to hate the CIA and to think that that organization is acted alone or did almost
everything.
It's not like that.
First of all, you have to understand how the hierarchies are put together, and we're
talking about political should be at the apex of a democracy, and the military is right
there at the top with them.
In a Cold War, which is what was happening in the Kennedy administration, it was right
in the middle of the Cold War, who does the fighting?
The fighting is not done by the political military hierarchies because they're not shooting
bombs and bullets at each other.
The spy services are the ones who do that.
So a coup d'état within a superpower is not done by the spy service.
The spy services can help Duquesne in other countries, but in the United States and in
Great Britain and in France and in the Soviet Union, a coup within a country is the military
overturning the political hierarchy.
That is what happened in 1963.
The CIA has a role to play, but it is not institutional.
We have to understand that by that time, we had a new director of central intelligence
who really had no idea about a lot of things that were happening, things that were not
withheld from him, McCone.
So what you're talking about is a series of people that were in on the Kennedy problem
way back when Kennedy was first became the president of the United States.
And so I'll do my best to try and take us through how that started and how that finished.
When did you first become interested in the assassination of John F. Kennedy?
How long ago was this?
When did you start researching all this?
When I was still in school, I was doing my PhD.
And I had been promoted from the NCO Corps as an officer.
And I ended up going up pretty fast and ended up working at the top of the NSA as the military
assistant to the director, General William Odom.
And I had decided that I wanted to do my dissertation on Chinese affairs, Mao Zedong, and things
that I knew a lot about.
One day when we were flying down to the Carolinas, I always carried his pictures and all of his
slides and everything, he put his newspaper down, his New York Times, and he said, John,
what's your dissertation going to be?
And I told him what it was going to be about China.
And he said, oh, come on, you can do better than that.
Show some metal, overturn an orthodoxy, which is actually what is expected of a dissertation,
but nine times out of 10, that doesn't happen.
Anyway, so I was taken aback by that, and I said to General Odom, what if I told you
that President Kennedy was going to pull out of Vietnam at the time he was murdered?
And he thought for a while.
And he said, you know what, John, if you could actually make a good case for that, that would
be a terrific dissertation topic.
Then he put his paper back and went back to reading his New York Times.
So we got home, back to Fort Meade that night, and I called my mentor, Dr. Richard Thornton
at George Washington, and I told him I was going to change my topic.
And he said to what?
I said JFK in Vietnam, and he said, I thought he'd never ask.
That's when that started.
It took me years, many years to, I took the maximum amount of time allowed for study,
which is five years.
And then eventually I submitted my thesis.
It was approved by a board at George Washington, and eventually I defended it with honors.
But at the same time, I got involved with Oliver Stone, Stone's movie.
He found out that what my thesis was, and it was something he.
What year was this?
Well, we're talking about 1980, 1991, it was 92 when the film came out.
But he got a hold of me a couple of years before that due to a meeting between somebody.
I don't want to go into all the details, but his chief of research found out in a bar in
Dallas, Texas that what I was doing my dissertation on, and said, oh my gosh, Oliver Stone, that's
what he wants to put in his movie.
So I got a call from Oliver Stone, and we got hooked up doing that.
But the point is here to not waste time, that what happens is my dissertation comes out
at the time of the movie.
And very quickly, what would have happened within weeks before that actually happened,
my book was suppressed, or attempted to be suppressed.
There were actually two episodes of this oppression, suppression.
First of all, I have to say that by law in the statutes that govern pre-publication review,
as an Army officer, my stuff has to be reviewed by the Army, not by NSA or anybody else.
And I did, I sent it in and it passed with flying collars, no problems.
I gave a copy to the CIA, and the NSA, excuse me, I gave a copy to NSA, and they said, okay,
fine, we'll keep it, but they acknowledged that it was okay, because the Army had okayed
it.
And that was the way it was from about 1989 to the time the movie came out.
And then all of a sudden, as the days approached for the movie to come out, I was told that
I got a call from the General Counsel's office at the NSA, and they said, you can't publish
your book, it's classified.
And so I said, well, what's classified about it, I'd be happy to look at that for you.
And the answer was, I don't know.
And I said, well, you know.
And the answer was, we don't know that either.
So anyway, there I was stuck with less than a year to go to get my pension and a lifetime
of medical care for my family, facing possibly losing my clearances and being thrown out
of the core and losing everything.
And so it was a tough time with my parents and my wife, that eventually I decided to
stand my ground, because I thought that, look, there's a lot of good people in the military.
Not everybody's bad.
And so I felt like this was part of my duty to stand up and tell the truth.
And so I stood my ground.
Anyway, it all turned out OK in this instance, because there was a big press corps briefing
that was going to take place the day after the movie came out.
And I was going to be there, interviewed by the press from all over the world.
And NSA called me out of bed that morning, early that morning, about 5 a.m., my time,
7 a.m. their time, back in Washington.
And is this major Newman?
And I said, yeah, who's this?
And they said, this is the National Security Agency.
Your book is good to go.
Have a great day.
Click.
And so I did.
But it wasn't over.
Early on in the next year, 93, towards the end, my book disappeared.
And I couldn't get my calls were not answered at Warner Books.
In the end, it turned out that they had illegally actually decided to suppress my book
instead of doing it legally, which would be to option my book and take it off the market
for a year or two or whatever and pay me something.
And then I would get it back.
But anyway, they had another book they were helping bring out, actually two or three.
But the one in particular was going to be arguing the opposite of my thesis to try and
take away all the effect that this was going to have, that the effect of my book and the
film had.
And so the Galbraith family got involved because Jamie Galbraith, one of John Kenneth Galbraith's
three sons, it was at University of Texas as he was in political science.
And his students, he actually wanted to use my book.
And by that time, they couldn't find it and they told him and he said, what's going on?
They said it's been suppressed.
So he called me up and asked me if I didn't mind the family looking into it.
They did.
They got ahold of Hale Boggs Jr.
He was the time Warner, Inc. CEO of the time, he was also in Congress.
People will know that name.
He looked into it and he called back and said, it's a scandal.
And he called the head of Warner Books and said, you need to fix this, you know?
And so I did.
They finally called me.
It was the president of the morning, he said, what are you going to sue?
How do you want to handle this?
And after some thinking, I said, give me my rights back.
And that's the end of it.
I didn't want to spend a lot of time in litigation.
So that's how I got it back.
But by that time, it had been remaindered.
So I lost out on a lot of money.
But the book sold and 25 years later, I wrote the sequel to it in 2017, which you have here
on the table.
That's how things got started, okay?
Now I didn't go into the assassination.
But what I did say and what I was very obvious was that after Kennedy died, we went into
Vietnam and he didn't want to do that.
He fought hard about it.
Sometimes he lied about it a little bit.
He didn't want people to know he was pulling out because he wanted to let them know that
after he was reelected, but things came along that changed all that.
And we can talk about that if you want to go back to the story from the time Kennedy
was elected until he was assassinated.
But my dissertation convinced me and eventually it was no longer a hypothesis.
We got tapes, White House tapes and things like that that showed that it wasn't a thesis.
It was true.
Kennedy was pulling out of Vietnam.
And there was nothing you could do to stop that.
And eventually, of course, nowadays new books that come out agree that Kennedy was pulling
out of Vietnam.
But that's one of the reasons that they didn't like him.
A lot of the powerful people in powerful places didn't like him.
Right, right.
So that's interesting.
So when Oliver Stone called you up and wanted you to work on the movie, in what capacity
did you help him with that first movie?
Did you advise on some of the facts that were involved?
Well, he flew me out to California and I said, I have some restrictions.
He said, well, what are they?
Were you still in NSA?
I was still an Army officer, yeah.
So I told him that, number one, you will not use my Army rank or anything like that to
hype the movie.
And he thought about that and he said, OK, all right, I get that.
And I said, the other thing is I will not talk to you about anything except the Vietnam
part.
This was the movie JFK wasn't just about Vietnam, but that was an important part of it.
And so I said, and I will not talk about anything else.
He said, well, why not?
I said, because I worked for 10,000-pound guerrillas and I know what happens when you
start talking about stuff that you are not an expert in and I'm never going to say anything
to you that I don't know is true.
And after he thought about that, he said, OK, we signed.
And I was one of the senior, in fact, I was a very senior advisor and one of the only
ones they got to participate in that press junket, as I mentioned a few minutes ago.
So that's what I did.
And he called me back again for the movie he did on Nixon and other things, too.
So I didn't just work on that film, but he liked my work.
And so I worked with Oliver periodically on other projects.
So your newest book is uncovering Pop-Hof's mole.
Can you explain to me the evolution of how you first dove into this with JFK in Vietnam
and how you got to where you are now with Pop-Hof's mole?
I decided after doing a book on religion to get away from this whole Kennedy thing back
in about 2003 or so.
And I spent six years working on a book called Quest for the Kingdom, The Secret Teachings
of Jesus and the Light of Yogic Mysticism.
Then I came back to the Kennedy case based upon my wife and of somebody who came, a producer
from Pennsylvania, and she stayed with us for a couple of days.
And my wife had not liked the fact that I spent so much time working on things.
And all of a sudden, they wanted me to come back to the case.
And I said, OK, look, here's the deal.
I'm not going to come back and write a book.
I'm either coming back or I'm not coming back.
And coming back means doing the whole thing, whatever it takes, however long it takes.
Are you OK with that?
Yes, we are.
So I did.
So the first thing was this one here, where I just tread lightly.
Hold it up next to the mic.
This is this book here, goes all the way back into the 40s and stuff and has appendices
to tell people how to, my readers, how to deal with pseudonyms and cryptonyms and a
lot of my, I broke in this book.
And later on, I wrote this one here, Countdown to Darkness.
This really was my coming to grips with General Lemitzer, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff and the Cuban Missile Crisis, many, many of chapters in there on all of that and
its role.
Eventually, I came into the storm.
I spent three whole chapters dealing with a guy, by the name of Sam Halpern, who was
a, it was CNA guy who was lying about Robert Kennedy being behind all these things.
And I became a very close friend with his son, Bobby Jr.
And Bobby Jr. endorsed this thing with a very, very nice blurb, as we call them.
But this was a book that took me all the way into 1962, the Cuban Missile Crisis and the
Berlin Crisis and things like that.
But what happened was, is I came towards the end of the book.
I noticed things that weren't, that I didn't understand.
And the next thing that was on, coming up, was a book I called Armageddon.
I've been working on it for a long time.
I've done many big shows on radio programs and, you know, on Zooms.
And at James Madison University, where I work, I've done presentations there.
But what happened was, I never had a conclusion to the, into the storm, as I do in all my
other books.
I didn't do it, because I knew I didn't have a conclusion.
So I just pulled down the curtain and I said, intermission, this is an intermission.
So this book, Into the Storm, ended as an intermission.
And we were working hard, I have my own inner sanctum of four or five people that are very
good and very solid and just want to be part of this whole program.
And so we ended up looking at things and trying to figure out these, I don't want to go into
details, but there were three or four things that didn't make sense.
And so when we looked at those in particular, it ended up that it looked like we all made
and I had made a huge mistake going all the way back to Countdown to Darkness and even
before about something called the mole hunt.
Okay.
When Oswald defected way back in 1959, there was a mole hunt afterwards.
And we all thought, I did and everybody did.
And I wrote about it, that the mole hunt was designed by the counterintelligence chief of
the CIA named James Angleton.
That was the guy in charge.
I thought I had done interviews with people in the security office that told me things
that I didn't understand.
And they were screaming at me at this time when we were deciding what to do with Armageddon.
And so it turned out that it looked like we were about to uncover Popol's mole.
Now Popol's mole, we'll talk about Popol himself, he was a Soviet intelligence, a guy
which is their GRU, Soviet military intelligence, had defected and told the CIA.
Defected to the CIA?
Yeah.
So what he had been, but eventually towards the end, not the beginning, he defected in
1952, early 1952, and it wasn't until, excuse me, yeah, that's right.
So it wasn't until much later, like in 1958, April, that he told George Kiesfalter, his
case officer, that there was a high echelon mole in the CIA that had access to the technical
details of the U-2 program, the secret U.S. spy plane that flies up at 52,000 feet.
And so that mole had never been discovered.
Popol's mole had never been discovered, 70 years out.
And so we just, we started looking at it, and my inner, all my guys that worked with
me, and Gals, I got them, Heather, Heather Fierce, she was a great asset too, Alan Dale,
Jay Harvey, there was a number of people that, they were actually telling me, you need to
stop or you can beg them for a minute, and you need to take a time out and you need a
separate book for this.
I resisted for a while, but then I realized they were right.
And so that's how Popol's mole came about.
I identified who the mole was after 70 years, who had never been caught, never been found.
How certain are you that you're correct about who the mole was?
Okay.
At the end of the book, and Popol's mole is a chapter called, hold it up here, this is
the book.
At the end of the book, there's a whole chapter called Providence, Authenticity, and Multiple
Attestation.
And I took every piece of an evidentiary hierarchy that I used for a hypothesis that the mole
was Bruce Sully, and vetted it in terms of that methodology.
And so every piece of that evidentiary hierarchy has not one, not two, but usually three, four
or five independent sources.
And so at the end of the day, and the thing that was most powerful that came late, I did
not know until four or five months to go, I'd already gone to Ancestry and done a work
up on Sully.
But I hadn't really noticed until that point in time that his travel records were going
to have to be really important because a high echelon mole, a high echelon mole has to travel.
They can't talk face to face in the open.
They have to talk face to face in a secret place.
And if they do anything else, like try and send a message or see encryption is broken
both ways, the CIA and the FBI could read each other's stuff periodically here or there.
And the same thing with secret writing can be intercepted.
The only way that somebody who's at the top of a spy service who's going to the other
side is they've got to travel, and either he's got to travel over there to Moscow or
Moscow's got to send people to him.
And I found a travel records, and they were astounding because the high echelon mole in
the CIA is not even going to be activated unless the top person in the KGB decides to
do it because you might lose your eyes and ears at the top of the enemy service.
And so it was a big decision to use him.
And he was used in a very important time, it was a crisis.
A war had started in the Middle East with both French and British troops in the Swiss
canal.
And that's when Eisenhower decided to send the U-2s over the Soviet Union, not just
Eastern Europe.
Anyway, that's how those travel, because we're going to talk about that, that's another subject,
but to finish your question, that was the icing on the cake when I put his boots on
the ground in the middle of these operations, and he personally had to travel over to the
Soviet Union, not to the Soviet Union, excuse me, but close to it in Eastern Europe where
Popov had been stationed in Berlin and in Vienna to dig up dirt on him because Khrushchev
wanted the technical details of the U-2, we'll get to that, and he will stop there.
Those were, I had five or six or seven very powerful pieces of evidence from different,
independent sources that gave me this answer.
And so there was no doubt in my mind, I called it a hypothesis, so I like to leave it to
other people.
You can read the book and you can decide, but you're going to have to look at the evidence,
and some people don't want to read the book because they know that it's going to be convincing,
and they missed it.
And a lot of people who love reading my books for years, sometimes as you go along, they
don't like me so much because I admitted I was wrong about Angleton and they don't want
to be wrong about Angleton.
So the problem is that good investigative work, whether it's crime or astrophysics or
chemistry, goes through all these mistakes that have to be made until you finally get
a solution.
You just have to, it's a part of what you do is to say this was wrong, and it's not
a cause for being concerned, you can break out of some scotch and say, it's time to celebrate.
We're that much closer to where we want to be.
Well, a lot of people that are on this case don't like it.
You know, they've got their colonel mustard with a wrench in the library thing, and that's
it.
They're done, and they don't want to hear.
So progressively over the years, I've lost people that like what I was doing, but it's
what I do.
And so, but I'm absolutely certain that Popos Moll was, in fact, sully.
But in the whole, all the trouble we went to to write that book, we knew that there was
a lot more.
There were so many leads.
Nobody's ever been before, by the way.
It changes everything, that the top of the CIA, and actually the CIA, MI6, the British
version of their CIA, and also power of the French intelligence services was just a riddle
to crazy.
Riddle of Soviet spies.
But all the Western spy services were owned by Moscow Center.
It changes everything.
You've got to go back and look at all the stuff I was writing before, and I'm looking.
I'm still looking at things, but what we're finding is there were more moles.
And the fact that you have sully by the, you know, the shortened curlies, that means we
can now find out somebody else, like the guy sully's boss, we can get to him later.
So anyway, that was a big deal, this book was a big deal.
Sorry.
Let me just say one thing.
I didn't do the digital version yet, usually I do a digital version, but I waited on purpose
because I'm going to do a revision of the book with the digital version later in the
year.
Didn't you tell me that something happened with Amazon publishing to Kindle?
They gave you some problems?
Yes.
Well, it was another, this is the second time in my life that they tried to suppress
my book.
Now, the first one was successful for two years.
This one here, within 24 hours of the publication of this book, I had a crashed computer.
The Dell people were on it, and I had to go back to factory records instantly, lost a
lot of data and things, but it wasn't fatal.
At the same time that happened, there was on social media, all my stuff, all the things
I was posting and everybody else was posting about it was taken down, and we were told,
no one's out, they told me they didn't like, they thought, they accused me of, misinformation
or something.
No, they said that you're using surreptitious means to get all these likes, all these people
liking you.
I usually had a couple of hundred likes about the stuff I was writing, and it was stupid
to say something like that, but anyway, I didn't pay any attention to that.
The third thing was, in the same 24-hour period that, excuse me, Kindle Amazon got a hold
of me and said, your book, we're not publishing your book.
And they said what the reason was.
It was because the travel records of Bruce Sully that were appendix one were illegible.
And that's not true.
Many of them, most of them are very legible.
And you can look at them.
You can look at them.
Now, I took them out of the book and put something in there that said, this is what happened.
And in fact, we started putting them all over the internet, you know, at the Mary Farrell
Foundation and other things, and we even threatened to start making up posters or bookmarks and
stuff with pictures of sold shelves.
So it didn't take long.
Within a week, my book was published.
Did you include all the flight logs and travel details in the book?
I did at first, but I removed them from the appendix.
But then I put something in there that explained why it's gone because Kindle Amazon says they're
illegible.
And then we started, it was much more, how can I say, embarrassing for them, for me to
take it out because they said so.
So I didn't scream and yell.
I just said, OK.
They took this stuff out because it's illegible.
And I hear some pictures that you can look at and you can decide.
And it was very embarrassing.
Who within these agencies in the U.S. currently, how many people and who are they, the ones
that are involved in suppressing this thing that happened 70 years ago?
Certainly nowhere near as educated in the ways of espionage, counterespionage as the
old CIA folks were, OK.
Their dad didn't go on most of them.
There's one or two still alive.
They ended up liking me pretty much over the years because they wanted to know what happened
too.
Most of them didn't know everything because inside the CIA and the KGB, you have need
to know.
Not everybody knows what's going on.
Very common.
And I was figuring stuff out and giving presentations.
And so I had an incident where they pickpocketed me once at one of the things down in Dallas
and my phone was gone for a while.
We were able to trace where it was using a service back in Washington or close to Washington
where I was, actually in Harrisonburg, Virginia.
And we could tell that my phone was like five or six floors upstairs and anyway.
And they secreted it back into my carry bag when there was a lot of people rushing out
of a door.
And then I went into another.
But so they put it back in.
They couldn't break it.
They couldn't get into it.
It was an Apple phone.
So at the end of that presentation, a guy walks up to me in a nice jacket, no tie.
He's waiting in line.
He's first there and people are still coming up in line to ask me questions.
And he says, John, you're okay.
You're fine.
You're going to be fine.
We just want to know what you know.
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition, exercise, and sleep
as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length with doctors
and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that
hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels with powerful
ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol, and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called certuans.
Certuans are called longevity genes because by activating them, they support overall health
and slow down aging related effects by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damaged DNA, and ramp up energy production
in your brain, immune system, and muscles.
Now you can't take NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb,
but NMN directly converts to NAD plus while resveratrol activates your certuans, which
increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN
on its own.
Verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code CONCRETEATCHECOUT to save 15% off your
entire order or go to ver.so forward slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E right now.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
And I didn't know what that meant first, but after we thought about the whole craziness
of my phone disappearing and then reappearing at the end of that conference, that's all
it was.
It was a message that they wanted to see.
They wanted to know.
It was a very important one.
I was a guy by the name of Esiana that one of these misdirections I was knocking down.
But anyway, so your question was...
I was basically asking like who in the CIA or any of these agencies currently...
So this new suppression of the book are people that are now coming out of the CIA in their
60s.
Yeah.
And they're all over social media.
And in fact, it's even on the internet.
One of them was a woman who actually outed all the rest of them saying, this is terrible.
We shouldn't be doing this, but they're all over the place in social media and they have
influence.
Well, they also have the investment from the Q Intel investment company that invests in
a lot of these big companies, which is it's mind boggling that they can have that much
control over some of these companies when they're able to invest in all these big tech...
Exactly.
Exactly.
There's something even scarier because I started thinking, what I ended up doing was going
to a security program that international finance banks use and all the international, multinational
corporations use because they can't...
Their stuff has to be secure.
And you can get a program as just as an individual.
And so...
But I started thinking about it, what if they infiltrate security companies too, there's
no end to this.
So anyway, you have to know that they can watch.
And so I always assume that that's happening.
And so my relationship with the people that work with me, we're careful how we handle
everything.
And so because it's two ways, when you're being surveilled and you're smart enough, counter
surveillance teaches you a lot of specific things that I know about.
And so I'm not afraid to continue what I'm doing.
In fact, there's a lot...
Look, I'm not going to say something because we're going to get probably to the Kennedy
assassination and the military's involvement in lots of things, that and other things.
And the same thing with the CIA.
I know lots of good people in the CIA.
I know lots of good people in who wear the uniform.
And I'm very careful when I give these Zoom presentations at the end to show pictures
of some of the generals who were fantastic.
And they would never lie.
And because of that, like under Westmoreland, gentlemen Christian had to be sent home.
He was the head of intelligence.
And every time he got...
He sent anything back to Washington.
He said the Viet Cong is getting worse and their determination...
He sent that back with every single one.
And of course, what was going on at that time in that part of Vietnam was the 600,000 troops
had been cut in half and things like that.
So when I tell us a version of what I think has happened here or there and involves bad
things, lies or things especially that are defrauding the American people to get them
in to go into a war, I'm going to stand up and talk about it.
But it doesn't mean that we don't have a lot of good people in government.
Right.
These are specific bad people.
Exactly.
You're not saying the institutions themselves are corrupt.
It's the bad apples that are inside there that make things go awry.
There's a photograph of me testifying in front of a committee and it took the Pentagon
by surprise and for a long time and then we talked about it and then my punishment was
to please let them know the next time I'm going to be in uniform.
But what happened was when I came out, these officers that I know, they said that they
were so proud of you John, you know, for what you've done for the Army because we did do
bad things.
The Army intelligence surveilled all these students and they're not supposed to be doing
domestic operations anyway.
There were a lot of things that gave us a black eye and so, you know, that's one of
the reasons that I stood my ground, you know, with JFK in Vietnam because we all have to
do that sooner or later.
But you've got to make up your mind whether or not you're going to just be a weasel and
bow to power or whether you're going to stand up to it.
Right.
Let me ask you this.
If you're in the shoes of the CIA or the American government, do you think it's a good thing
for the United States for some of this information to come out?
Like if you were to expose everything that happened to JFK and all the corruption and
everything about this high echelon mole, do you think that helps or hurts the U.S. that
the truth comes out?
Well, it can only help because without, you see, our republic is founded on the idea
that you have to have, the people have to have information in order to decide who should,
our leaders should be.
And if you don't know what they're doing or what they're up to, the whole concept of
our democracy fails right there.
So you have to, we have to deal with it at least very soon.
The problem is, you know, every four years, it could be a new president.
And are we saying that we can't, we can't find out when the next election comes up.
But like what they did, is that what you want?
Right.
But that's different than something that happened 70 years ago.
Yeah.
I'm wondering like what the implications would be.
If this came out, if the truth came out.
I think the truth is out.
I think that it's been there all along.
And a lot of the, what has happened are misdirections.
You know what a misdirection is, where you're confusing somebody, leading in the wrong way.
And so a lot of the investigations were compromised, even though they were much better than the
Senate Select Committee and the House Select Committee on Assassinations did real investigations
because unlike the Warren Commission, which laid down for this, to go ahead and do the
public thing because, because they told her a warrant, for a warrant that 40 million Americans
going to die if we didn't do the Oswald did it alone thing.
Later on, there are serious ones, but they get infiltrated before it starts to try and
control the narrative.
So it's a constant battle with this stuff.
And it's not just some, what we're talking about, the same thing happens with big corporations
and stealing each other's stuff.
It's not something we're talking about here, the spy services and Cold War and that kind
of stuff.
But there's just as much spying and all this stuff is done for reasons for money too.
So in most cases, both houses of Congress are compromised because the money goes to
both the Republicans and the Democrats, they can't live without it.
Corporations and politics are, there's a very blurry line between them.
That's right.
So in terms of the Cold War, who do you think, what spy agency do you think won the Cold
War?
Well, the KGB won for a long time, but in the end, you know, they fell.
It doesn't mean that some of the people that were doing that stuff, like Putin, whose his
job was deception, are still doing the same sorts of things, but there's no KGB.
There's a different, it was the FSB and now it's SVR and these acronyms we don't need
to talk about today, but here's the thing I want to say about the battles of the spy
services.
And again, remember that that happens when there's not a war going on.
Okay.
Once we got involved in Vietnam, things were heating up.
That was a real war, but it fortunately didn't get out of hand to the point of blowing the
planet up.
Look, Sully defected to the KGB, Popov defected to the CIA.
And I can tell you right now that there were, I don't kind of say hundreds, but many, many
people in our side of the street defected to the Russians and the same thing happened
in Russia because it was even harder to live there.
So the point is that in this world that we grew up in and these superpowers, people working
in the spy services of those superpowers, many of them didn't like what they were doing.
And so they ended up, people are being defecting in both directions.
So what does that mean?
What does that tell us?
Well, it tells us that it's not black and white.
And so you have the same problem in all these powerful countries which are not democracies
and our democracy is being compromised as we sit here today.
There are people who want to tear up our constitution right now.
So anyway, so it's not us against them.
We find out it's us against us in the end.
And so we have to be careful not to say that everything we did was great and fine and dandy.
Not to mention your name, dandy I meant to say, not dandy.
But look, I'll give you one example.
A lot of people still don't know about Operation Gladio.
Now Operation Gladio was put into play during, at the end of World War II.
There was a fear that Stalin was going to just go, march her all the way across Europe
and take everything all the way to the Atlantic.
He wasn't stupid enough to do that.
It was, there was no way they were going to be able to hold that kind of territory.
But that was, that was the war scare of 1948.
And so what they did was they buried caches of weapons and, and communication equipment
all over Europe.
And so that once, once the, the Warsaw Pact armies had gone by, they would have, they,
these people would come out of nowhere and, and behind enemy lines.
They were mostly, they were assassins and, and provocateurs and people that were, you
know, expert in blowing stuff up, which is what you would do if you were working behind
enemy lines.
Well, that never happened.
And so all that stuff got used another, a different way.
The CIA and, and MI6 were the most at fault here.
But they, what they did was to use that equipment to sabotage, blow up buildings, assassinate
people and tell the public that it was done by socialists and communists.
And it wasn't, it was done by the Gladio units that were being run out of two sec, two, we
had two particular committees in NATO that almost no one knew about.
You had to be, the head of NATO was always an American general, by the way, for a long
long time.
So anyway, for 40 years, this went on, murders and stuff blowing up.
And eventually it came out, a guy named Frankovitch went over there and filmed everybody, including
all the CIA people that were involved too, and many of them, senior ones, came, went
on camera to tell us what happened.
He had three reels of stuff, about six hours worth of stuff that was all filmed.
It was in different languages, but there were, there were, you know, there was almost
illegible writing, what they were saying in English at there, and my good friend Heather
Fear transcribed that whole, all of it, took her weeks to do it.
So I have actually a Microsoft Word version of every one of the interviews of all the
people that were involved in all those countries.
And there's several books on Gladio that have been written that are good books.
And I use those, some of these things, I use them in, at James Maddison, where I teach.
I teach counterterrorism there, and sometimes I tell them, you know what, what if I told
you that it, the term counterterrorism, I might not even have counter in it.
And that's when you're controlled, you're not, you think you've got, you're countering
terrorism, but you're not, you're, you're just falling for it.
In the context of this whole thing, what, what role did Bruce Sully play in, in this
whole story?
And how, how important was he in regards to what was going on with Lee Harvey Oswald?
He was the one who put the plan together for the Oswald affection and all that, and, and
that the hunt would be looking for the mole somewhere else, not him.
So he is the one who knows that there's going to have to be a mole hunt, and he needs, and
he can design it.
But about a year and a half to go, once he finds out, just before Pop Off, Pop Off tells
us, so that goes to Sully, so Sully knows now, that the West knows.
So there's going to have to be a mole hunt, and, and, and Oswald doesn't arrive until
the end of 59.
So it gives Sully enough time to jigger things around so that all the, the stuff comes to
his desk, all the other government documents and everything.
So he has control, full control of everything.
So, but that's just the first part of it.
He has to, so here, let's, I think it's time to talk about when Sully is actually activated.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Cause he, let me say a lead that, that cropped up in the book shows that James McCord of
Watergate fame ends up being involved as well as a mole.
They were in World War II together.
And this is not something that I finished.
His story is, is, is littered through three or four chapters in there.
And recently in the past several weeks, I've been getting ready for the new digital version.
And this is a big deal.
It's going to be a, it'll be a, a chapter or two all, all on its own, the McCord story.
McCord was actually Sully's boss.
So to understand where they are, let's just go over this again.
This is the office of security.
It is a high echelon thing all into itself.
There are six staffs, I won't name them all.
The most important one is the security research staff, research.
And within the research staff, there's, there's several branches, but there's one called the
research branch research.
And that is where at that desk, all information on moles, on false, on defectors, on false
defectors and the personnel files of everybody in the CIA, all there at that one desk.
That is where Sully is.
That's where he is.
And it turns out that McCord is the deputy chief of SRS, of that staff.
So he's the boss of Sully.
They're sitting at a desk close to each other and are keeping their mouths shut because
as Sully especially, if he says one word the wrong way, he could be outed, you know, for
what he was doing.
So he was sitting there as a sleeper the whole time.
These two guys, McCord and Sully were fliers in World War II over Germany.
They have bombers or bombardiers.
And so were the Russian guys there too.
And you know, you get, you get banged up and holes in your airplane, you got to land somewhere.
So there was a lot of interaction between Russian and American pilots.
In fact, we gave them most of their planes.
Someone came across the Pacific and so on.
There's a lot of interesting stories about, about all of that.
And so Bruce Sully was the guy who knew, because the security office was also providing security
for the YouTube program, knew the technical details of the plane.
The actual pamphlet, and not a pamphlet, it's a pretty thick little item that has the history
of the YouTube and it has the security part of it too.
And it's, it's, it's not classified anymore.
It's there.
The, the office of security provided security for the YouTube.
So he knew the technical details.
Now we have to go to the, the Cold War.
And the Cold War, when the Cold War becomes a hot war, which was in 1956, there was a,
there had been over the previous year, a sort of explosion or implosion going on there.
Of, of, there was suddenly a lot of the countries there, there was a lot of pro-Soviet influence
had cropped up real fast.
And so there were a lot of concerns about this in, in the Western powers.
And they made the decision to do something about it.
They wanted to, to, they wanted to, to make sure Egypt would be in the right camp and
that the Suez Canal would be in, in Western, in Western lands.
And so there was, they invaded.
At that time, Eisenhower was our president.
Now he's got a spy service and Khrushchev is, is in charge over there on the other side
and in Moscow, he's got the spy service.
Eisenhower had continued the decommissioning of American forces at the end of World War
II.
We had a huge army, the biggest thing on the, on the earth at the time.
It was just way too big to be used for anything.
So they, he continued to decommission and, and try and put emphasis on, on the economy.
And so, and the reason, his reasoning was that he could do the same thing with, with
nuclear weapons.
They were cheap.
Outfitting, you know, divisions and armies and training them is hundreds and thousands
of times more expensive than that.
So that's what he had done and was, and was doing.
And so he was at this time that the CIA had come up with the U-2.
And at first, in June of 1956, he allowed that plane to go over East Germany and Poland.
But that's it.
Well, by the time we get to July, things are heating up.
He makes a decision to let the U-2 fly over Soviet territory because what is he looking
for?
He wants to know, he's probing Khrushchev to see whether or not they're going to send
troops in.
Now, people that we sent in on the ground forever got caught and executed instantly.
So the only thing that he could do was to use the U-2 as a spy plane.
So it could look for troop movements and things on rails and that kind of stuff to see if there
was any indication that the Russian forces were going to actually themselves intervene
against the British and French armies in there.
What was so special about the U-2 besides just 52,000 feet was above what Soviet radars
could even see at?
So the PP, P2 or whatever, I forget the nomenclature, PP, something or other, was something that
Oswald would have known about.
He was a guy using with a grease pencil, or the three places that was in Great Britain,
they had one.
In Incirlik, Turkey, they had another U-2 base and then at Asuki, Japan.
The one in Japan was important because the U-2s could fly over the impact areas of the
Soviet ICBM program, which Khrushchev had boasted about, said they had tons of them.
And the fact of the matter is they weren't hitting their targets.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
The real truth was that Khrushchev decided not to, to that particular verse, that particular
missile to produce it because it was so bad.
He was going for second generation, so he was lying about all the stuff he had and that
truth came out literally when Kennedy got elected president.
So all the things, a lot of things he said, boasting that he was going to do to get Castro,
he had promises he had to keep.
And that's another whole story, but going back to 1956, this is when Khrushchev finds
out that these U-2s are flying over his territory and there's nothing he can do about it.
Now Khrushchev, it took him four years to win the leadership struggle after Stalin died.
And he's on a very shaky ground.
There are people in the wings waiting for him to stumble just once and get rid of him
and take his job.
So when he finds out about the U-2s and they can't shoot him down and he knows that they
have a high echelon mold over there that they haven't activated, who knows the specs of
the U-2s, he says, I want to shoot them down.
So he tells some senior KGB guys, you guys get on your hobby horse and you're going
to Washington and you're going to bring me back the details of that.
Oh, by the way.
So he said, go activate this guy.
Yes.
You got to go meet him.
See, that he comes here, but he also wanted to...
How do you activate this guy?
How?
Well, somebody has to tell him.
There has to be another mole somewhere.
Right.
That's got to be so difficult.
But that mole has had access to the Soviet Union.
Now, who would that be?
There's only one guy in the security office and no Americans were allowed to go into East
Europe and Soviet denied territory.
But I have McCord's travel records in that very month.
He was cleared by the security office for travel through W.E., Western Europe, through
E.E., Eastern Europe, and for travel in Soviet Denied Territory.
McCord, Zoli's boss.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's been over there for years.
That's what part of his job was to go over there all the time and go to visit our stations
in Berlin and Vienna and so on and so forth.
And so, he was able to have contact, because what do you think happens in Berlin?
People go across the borders and spies talk to spies and all this kind of stuff, the same
thing in Vienna.
So that's how Zoli was able to have contact with probably the GRU, which is where they
found out about it.
This is the Soviet military intelligence, some GRU units over there, but it has to be
somebody, because they knew Zoli had this material in 56, not just when before Popov,
who told his case officer in 1958, back in 56, that was the whole raison d'etre for this
trip.
Now, I want you to imagine that you are one of these high echelon KGB guys in Moscow.
And you were told you and two of your buddies are going to go to Washington, D.C., the United
States of America, incognito, and you're going to meet this guy who's been sleeping
the whole time and you're going to ask him questions.
You're going to be face-to-face with this guy.
You got to go over there and do that.
You happy about that?
Hell no.
You're married, you know, and you don't even know what's going to happen.
I mean, you could get assassinated, you can be PNG'd, but persona non grata.
You could be thrown out of the country, and there's a little bit of trouble, because there
is using false names.
Komarov was what the top guy used his name was Vladislav Kovshuk.
There's a couple of very, very good, I mean, capable KGB guys.
Konrad Shev is the number one guy.
Bagley, on our side, was the number one, Konrad Townsend's guy.
Anyway, this other one, Khrushchev used.
So you're the first person to ever find out these minute details about these officers
flying from Moscow to Washington when they did it.
Bagley under ...
How do you find this stuff?
Bagley wrote about it.
Bagley wrote about the trip.
He doesn't know quite as much as I know about it, because I've got Sully's travel records.
He didn't have that.
He didn't know Sully.
He didn't know who the mole was, okay?
But what he knew was that Kovshuk and two other people went over to find the mole, whoever
the mole was.
Got it.
This book here uncovered that mole.
That's why it's called Uncovering Pop-Offs Mole, okay?
But it's a dangerous thing that's going on here, and so the problem is how are they going
to talk to the mole?
How are they going to find Sully?
How are they ... somebody has to tell Sully, right?
But if they just go back there and start looking for safe houses, they're going to look like
three Russians looking for safe houses.
The KGB, the Hoover's Bucket Brigade, will be all over those guys, right?
So you've got to have somebody you can rely on, an American, who's going to go search
for places to meet.
Now that's what Edward Ellis Smith had been doing in Moscow.
He was the first real CIA plant in the embassy in Moscow.
He had been an economist guy, but the State Department had rules against any KGB guys
in being in the embassy.
So the CIA decided, well, let's not tell the ambassador.
So instead of having two or three or four guys, they chose one guy, Edward Ellis Smith, who
was married and his wife was back in the United States, so he didn't have any carnal relations
with his wife going on.
Anyway, so he's chosen.
And he ...
By who?
By Vladislav Kovchuk, you know why?
And why he was chosen?
Because he was the chief of KGB operations against the American embassy in Moscow.
That's where Edward Ellis Smith was.
He was in the embassy, working in the embassy.
So this one guy knew all the Americans in the embassy.
That was his job for years, was to know every American that was in there.
Okay?
He's the chief of KGB operations against that embassy.
So where are you going to find an American if you can actually turn them to your side?
Where are you going to find an American to do this in Washington that you are sure is
going to work for you, an American that's going to work for you?
Right.
Okay.
You've got to compromise them somehow, right?
Yes, but you have to have a good candidate and you don't know who's an American over
there that they can't just go on airplanes and go over there and go recruit somebody.
They got somebody because it turns out that a couple of months before July, 1956, Kovchak
recruits Edward Ellis Smith.
He uses his maid, who's actually a KGB major, pretty girl, and Ellis Smith falls into the
trap instantly and they break in with the cameras in the middle of this, what do they
call it, delecto something or other, it's just a word for sex.
They break in over the-
During the act, yes, and take pictures of him there and he's scared to death.
Anyway, I'll save us a little time by giving too many details, but what happens is he's
recruited by Kovchak and he's told a story right away.
You're okay, don't worry, don't worry, you're going to live fabulously for the rest of your
life and you won't have to keep doing stuff.
We just need you to do a couple of things for us and it's all going to be over.
You're going to be paid for life with money and you're going to have a great job in California.
McCord's the one that tells them all the details of this by the time they get him back.
McCord tells who the details of this?
McCord is the guy who brings him back.
He brings Ellis Smith from Moscow all the way to Washington.
McCord knows that Ellis Smith has been compromised.
Yes.
He's got to take him over there and then he has to be tried.
It has to be interrogation.
Now, McCord tells Ellis Smith not to worry.
In fact, Kovchak told him exactly how to handle the ambassador.
You're going to wait for a couple of weeks.
This was in, we're talking in April, so we're talking almost July, we're in June.
You finally go to the ambassador and say, oh, I'm so sorry I messed up.
I made a mistake and I didn't know what to do.
I thought that if I didn't do what they wanted me to do, that they would give me drugs or
kidnap me or something like that.
And I really am so sorry that I made this mistake.
And so the ambassador, Bolin was his name, he goes back to tell Eisenhower about it.
They meet on the golf course and we have the conversation.
He says, they didn't tell me they had a CIA guy working in my embassy and they took nude
pictures of them.
Anyway, he has this talk with ICON on the golf course about that.
But anyway, so let's get back to the situation here.
So we have this show of contrition in front of the ambassador, which is
feigned, it's on purpose.
He's going to have to go back.
They can't leave him there.
So that's what they want.
They want him back in Washington.
And so by the time they arrive, he's told what he's got to do.
Now, he had been looking for safe houses for Popoff because Popoff was going to get reassigned
to Moscow.
So he had, Ella Smith had been already learning how to scout for safe houses in Moscow,
but he did a terrible job.
Popoff said they all sucked the things he did.
So when he gets back there, he...
How do you find a good safe house?
What are the credentials?
Face-to-face.
Face-to-face.
Right.
Face-to-face.
But what is a safe house?
Where does it got to be?
What does it got to be?
Doesn't matter.
So long as nobody knows where it is and the two people that are going to go there know where it is.
Public places usually?
Well, yeah.
So it depends when you say public.
Right in the middle of a park, probably not.
Why is a movie house a great place?
A movie theater?
It's dark.
Can't see anything in there.
So that's what he's told he's going to do.
That's what McCord tells him to do, right?
And McCord can give him some skinny because McCord's growing up there in Washington.
So McCord can say, okay, these areas of the city are probably the best place because there's
going to be more whatever.
So that's what he does.
And it takes quite a while for him to come up with a set of places that fits the bill.
In the meantime, he's been thrown out of the CIA and while he's walking around looking for these
things, he looks like a whole bull who's down on his luck.
He's jobless.
He's been thrown out of the CIA.
This is what the FBI knows.
They're not interested.
Hoover's Bucket Brigade thinks this guy knows nothing now.
He's a nobody.
So there's been no attention to him.
That was part of the way too, to make sure that he would look penniless.
You would think after he came to them and told them that story about how they caught him in
that honey trap that they would be keeping an eye on him?
No.
That's early on.
So in other words, they know that, that he said, okay, I did it and I'm sorry.
So what are you going to do?
Are you going to keep him in the CIA?
Hell no.
You're going to throw him out.
But you're still going to keep an eye on him.
No, you don't keep an eye on him because that's Hoover's job is to keep the eye on him.
So now they did keep an eye on him, but not the good part of the CIA, not the people that do,
people that were working with cough shock or the Americans in the CIA who are in on this
operation.
So nobody got in their way.
Everybody in the CIA thought this is what, this is, they're in charge.
McCord's in charge of this.
He's a high-falutin guy, had been.
So nobody questioned anything in the CIA about this.
And so, but you only had the FBI to deal with.
Now the FBI never did catch him the whole time.
It was several months.
We're talking about, by the time he started scouting out the places, there's no way that
the cough shock and the guys are going to go buy their tickets and get their false passports
until those safe houses are in place.
Right.
And so they didn't ask for either their credentials until November of 1956.
And then it takes a few weeks.
By the time they were ready to go, it's in December.
But anyway, so Ella Smith has been going around doing this stuff for months.
And so he's told by McCord, even at the very beginning, while he's going through the interrogation,
don't worry, we're going to be giving you money on the side every single month.
And it was, I have the name of it here.
It's just one of these organizations that was CIA connected that they could give money.
And so, but there was the big money was going to be later on when it was all over,
when he could go to California.
And he was told what his job was going to be.
He was going to have a high position, a very nice office in the Hoover Institute of the
University of Stanford.
Now, the guy had already divorced his wife after all this stuff.
And so he married a Russian woman.
I'm still have to investigate.
I want to investigate the dates for all that.
But anyway, he was asked to stay around after the meeting.
The meetings took place in the first week of January.
They went off like, you know, no glitches.
The meetings with these two KGB guys and Soli.
Three of them, yeah.
Three of them and Soli.
That's right.
They met in the movie theaters.
That's right.
And so, but the next thing was.
And Soli gave them the technical details for the U2.
He did.
But he wasn't done yet.
There was one other thing that Khrushchev wanted, which was the enough information on
Pop-Off to hang him without betraying McCord and Soli's participation in this whole affair.
And that wasn't, that was not hard.
That's they knew about Pop-Off way back.
And he was so insecure that they just were just waiting for him to make mistakes.
So what happens is.
So wait, okay.
Explain to me again, like I'm a third grader, why Khrushchev wanted to get rid of Pop-Off
this early?
Because this is before Pop-Off told us.
Pop-Off was giving nuclear secrets and all kinds of stuff.
This guy was high up in the, in the GRU.
And how did he know about that?
How did who know?
How did Khrushchev know about Pop-Off giving all the secrets to the CIA?
Because he was making mistakes.
Okay.
He was making mistakes.
And, and he was, he was going across the borders in Berlin.
And, and, and his, his, what do we call it, his technique wasn't good.
His tradecraft was not good.
He was seen in a lot of places.
They, they knew.
He was drunk, wasn't he?
Well, he was drunk.
And he was also, he was married.
And he was, he was having an affair with, with Mielek all along.
And she ended up turning on them later on because of a political thing in,
in, in one of the countries in Yugoslavia where she was from.
But anyway, the point is that there were two or three different areas that were very,
look very good, that were connected with where he had been.
His remit had been to play.
He had spent time.
The GRU was one of the people that, that were well represented in,
in Russian Presidences, not Presidences, in, in Russian, in Russian people that are,
are, are working jobs in Berlin and in Vienna.
Those were the two biggest things that any, you know, they're in East Europe really,
if you think about Vienna, but it was neutral.
It was one of the first ones to go neutral.
And then when you talk about Berlin, I mean, you are in the middle of Eastern, East Germany.
It's not like you're in Germany or something.
There is no Germany.
Germany has been cut up and so on.
So very dangerous place to be, but that's where, that's where pop-off had worked.
And so, so what you want to do is get somebody can go, an American who can go to those places
and ask questions about pop-off.
And there's no better person to do that than Sully.
Right? Nobody can ask him why he's asking questions.
He's a senior officer from, from, from the Office of Security.
Right.
And, and besides which a pop-off's the guy who's created all this mess that's
endangering Sully himself.
He's got to protect himself in all of this.
Right.
So he has, he's got some skin in the game to make sure that they get rid of this guy and not,
not un, un, unmask him.
And he's, he's pretty bright.
Unlike does, like other guys who are drunk Sully, like Philby drunk Sully was not a drunk.
He didn't drink.
At this point in time, did Khrushchev, was he aware that pop-off knew about Sully?
Um, I doubt it.
Why would he know that?
I don't know.
No.
So pop-off just knows about.
But think pop-off eventually found out about Sully somehow.
Yes, but not his name.
He just, okay.
He knew there was a, he just knew there was a mole.
But yeah, because he had overheard in a GRU meeting that there was a mole at the highest
echelons who had the technical details.
Right.
Khrushchev knew about a mole.
He may have known the name.
There was really no need for him to know the name.
He probably did know the name, but you wouldn't want that name to get around because, because
both sides were penetrated.
And so there's very few people that understand what's happening here.
But where, where were we before you asked that question?
So you, so, um, Khrushchev wanted these guys, these three guys, the three GRU guys that went
to the U.S. to not only get-
No, they weren't GRU.
Those were KGB.
KGB, the two, the three KGB guys that went to the U.S.
He wanted them to not only get the technical details for the U2, but also wanted them to
figure out how to get pop-off.
Well, they weren't going to participate in that.
They are KGB guys.
So they can't walk into a CIA station in Berlin or, or, or, uh, Vienna and ask questions.
Right.
What we're looking for is the footprint that pop-off made when he went and, and across the,
the line in Berlin and so on and talked to CIA guys.
So you're going to go to CIA stations to ask these questions to hang pop-off with.
Right.
Well, you can't have Russians going in there and doing that.
You have to have an American and you have to have an American who, when he asks a question,
nobody says, excuse me, sir, what do you, why are you asking that question?
So Sully goes on his first trip over there after the meeting between Kovchak and Guk and,
and Kiesloff with Sully, Sully that, and that's January in, in February and March, Sully goes
over and you've got the map of where, when he sits down in Zurich for a couple of weeks
and, uh, which is well, about 30 to 40 minutes away from those two, two, Vienna and, and, uh,
Berlin and that's what he's doing.
Here's the map.
Now, when you look at that map,
it's, it, the thing that always bothered me about it, that I couldn't explain all this stuff,
I understood all, hold it up next to them, yeah, a little bit higher.
There you go, right there.
Perfect.
There's the map.
Here's France.
Here's Poland.
Here's Prague.
Here's Switzerland, right in the middle of everything.
And there's, there's CIA stations there in, in Zurich and in Geneva.
But anyway, um, a lot of times later on when Sully would go, he would always do it in Paris
because he would meet, he would meet KGB guys in Paris, which was full of KGB guys.
That's, but that's another story.
Let's leave that alone.
1962 and, and, and so this is back, this is back in 1950, um, uh, 56, 57 and 57.
And so, um, here is where he spends almost all this time.
All these other things are just legs that, that within 24 hours you're on your way,
except for Paris, he'd always stay two days.
Anyway, why did he come in?
He comes in and down here in Rome and actually before Rome, he started in Beirut.
So he went from Beirut to Rome, from Rome to Zurich, and that's where he stayed most of the
whole time on this long trip.
It was about two and a half, three weeks or so.
He's here because he can go and do these, these things from, this is his home base in Zurich.
Sorry, point it towards the camera a little bit more.
Okay.
So, um, later on, when I was writing that book on covering Pop Balls and More, I figured out
why he went to Beirut first, you see, because Kim Filby was, had always been the guy that
the KGB used to get all the, the information out of Angleton, the head of CIA counterintelligence.
Right.
They had worked together in Great Britain and, and they got drunk together and, and Angleton
told him everything.
Then they went to, to Washington and Filby became the liaison between MI6 and CIA.
Right.
So, Filby was one of the most, the secrets of the United States of CIA and MI6 until
there was a problem with a couple of guys, Burgess McClain had to run to, to Russia and
the stink wore off on him because they were his friends and so they interrogated him.
They couldn't prove it.
They suspected him.
And so what happens was he resigned and that was the way they resigned.
He resigned in 51 when the CIA was, was started.
Okay.
Okay.
So now we're, we're talking about Sully and McCord going there in 51, but not being used
in this operation until much later.
McCord was able to be here all the time because that was his job.
He could travel over there.
He was the only guy who did it.
Right, right, right.
So that's why he's so interesting and important to us because we have to have these, these
communication things, but anyway, so what happens is after five years of, of, of Filby
not having any work at all, they reactivate him to use, to go over to Beirut and look
at, cause that's where the, the, the crisis is.
Okay.
In the Middle East, it's very close to Beirut is right in the middle of the crisis.
Okay.
So they send, they send Sully there first, they send, they send, they send Sully there
first and what, what happens is, excuse me, I've got to hit myself, hit him, hit him.
That's where, that's where Filby is sent to and his job there is going to be just open
source information.
And he's going to give that to the CIA guy that, that is running the CIA station in Beirut.
Okay.
So he's over there now.
And Filby has a father who's well known all over the, the place he,
Yes.
And he had a mountaintop right over Beirut and, and so while when, at the time that Filby
comes there and at the very time, believe it or not, the very time that Sully shows
up in Beirut, Filby's father vacates the house, takes all his kids on a vacation and it's empty.
And so you have the KGB who needs a replacement for Filby and has had since 51 and you have
Filby alone on top of the mountain right over Beirut who knows all about how to, how to use
Angleton and that's why, that's why the first leg of this trip Sully was sent to Beirut.
Okay.
Finally, I got my answer. It took me a long time. I never realized, I thought,
what the hell is Beirut doing in this, in this, in this trip? Because I know that it has to do with-
How did you finally find this?
Because I started working on the Filby case and I got deep in, I have,
in every book on the, on the stuff you can imagine on the MI6 guy.
So that's, it was very, it was, it was, it was easy once,
Right.
As they say in China, very easy if you know how.
But not quick. Holy crap, man. You had to do a lot of research to put all these pieces together.
Well, it was the last four months that we started working the, the whole MI6 stuff in.
And it just, it was fantastic. People should have watched this series on TV. It was six,
six episodes called A Trader Amongst Friends and they, they messed up the Angleton stuff a
little bit, but it was, it was really accurate in a lot of ways. And it was more about Elliott,
who was Filby's case officer, if I can say that at the time, and he let him, he let him get on
the boat. He could have stopped it. He could have rested it, but they let, they let, they let in,
in 60, in 1960, I think, is when he eventually, he was, he was so drunk all the time with his wife,
because he knew that the end was coming. And he got on a Russian boat and he went over to,
over to Moscow and thank goodness, he wrote a book about himself. So we don't have to prove it
with documents. And he, and Filby actually admitted in his book everything that he did.
Yeah, he did. When he said the Angleton, he said it in Angle, it was so embarrassed. He told about
all that stuff. So, you know, the Sully stuff, I had to, you know, Sully didn't write a book,
okay? Filby did. So I had to do a little bit of work, you know, to put the, together who it was
that the KGB finally used to replace Filby with. Wow. What were the implications of him spilling
the beans on all that? Did he get in any trouble? Or was, did he give a fuck? Was he on his deathbed
anyways? Or who, who's he? Filby. Filby writing that book and talking about everything that he did.
I imagine that, no, he was already, he was, he was, he was safe. He was given the heroes award,
you know, in Moscow for all the years he spent a way back. This guy back in the 40s was already
working for him. And so, but they didn't really, they didn't want him to leave the country. He didn't
ever happen. They let his wife come over for a while, for once to visit with him for a while,
but she didn't stay for very long. Right. And, you know, he continued to drink, but not as hard,
but he did. I'm sure he died of liver cirrhosis of the river eventually. Okay, so, so what happened
after Khrushchev got these details of the spy? He finally got the details of the U-2s. He finally,
he got what he needed, all the info he needed on Popov, right? That's right. And they, and they
arrested him. They arrested Popov without compromising solely. Or McCord or anything. It was all
stuff that happened in places that Popov went. So, there was no, it was, they could use it.
Because, because the reason they, they had to be very careful for people who are listening,
who may not under, be keeping up. Basically, the reason they needed to arrest Popov for,
they needed to find other reasons completely disconnected from solely. So, because-
Events in his life. Events in his life. Right. Events in his life. Because if they did arrest
him that had anything with any sort of connection to solely, it would have-
How do you know this stuff is a reason? How do you know? And, and, and the reason is, well,
because he was insecure and he did this, this, and this, and that, you know, wasn't that hard.
But, Sully put the nail in the coffin there. But, but, you know what?
When you look at it now, there was something more important than that.
And that's the Beirut trip. So, you know, Khrushchev got, got the things he wanted out of it.
But the other thing that they're getting out of it, that his spy service is getting out of it,
is the new guy. And this is a, a, a bonus that Khrushchev will, he stays in power
for, for quite some time until, until after Kennedy's death when he's purged.
So, he ends up getting a new, a new mole even better than, than, than Philby.
This guy doesn't drink. This guy is pretty safe. And the thing he didn't really understand was
that one day, and he did, he did change the tags on his suitcases. The reason we know this is the
last chapter in the book is about a defector, a Navy defector from Russia that we got a whole
love and, and he was thrown back and used up and, and Sully had to escort him there. And,
and Sully basically helped turn him over to the Russians who killed him. And the, his wife was
with him. It was supposed to be a trip. And it's a sad, it's a sad chapter because on, on the way home,
Sully was in the plane where they never said a thing. But yeah, so anyway, it was a
big feather in the hat for Khrushchev. They solved everything. The, they got Kitty Hawk, which we
haven't had time to talk about. It's another operation that KGB had to save Nisenko. We
haven't talked about him either, the Nisenko defection, things like that. But what happens
ultimately is that the people in the, the CIA's Soviet Russia division,
battle erupts over KGB guys that they came over and they were supposedly
bona fide, but they weren't, they were provocations. All of them were and,
I mean, bona fide means in other words, if they came over, they really were a defector.
They really defected to us. That's bona fide. But if they're not, they're a provocation. They're
not bona fide. They're malafide. Okay. And so they were all, they were all, none of them were
bona fide. But what happens was Sully and his guys began to acquire power in 1955 and in 56.
And especially with Hoover, Hoover did not want anything to be bona fide because if it was, that
meant he missed it. Right. So he went along with the KGB's wishes that these guys were bona fide.
They really were. So if, if there, if, what I meant to say is if, if they were false defectors
and he missed that, that would be bad for him. Right. So the short version of the story is that
there was a battle that arraged inside of the CIA for, for three or four years and Sully won.
And he had the help of the director of central intelligence, Richard Helms, gave him charge
of everything to do, to decide what had happened and who should be, you know, and so Bagley was
put out to pastor. He was our best guy. A lot of things happened, but, but they sent new,
new guys in a guy by the name of Kachnoff who was there as part of this operation to
finish the job of the KGB's takeover of the CIA. Kitty Hawk was the last death knell of
anything authentic going on in the, in the Soviet Russian division or in the CIA.
And so Sully, who kept his mouth shut the whole time, finally felt that he could come out in
the open. And so he openly went along with, with Nosankov being bona fide, Galitian, who gave
us good stuff saying he was not bona fide. And this, this guy ordered him an off, wow, we should
use him in an operation or something. This was the KGB agenda. Sully went along with
publicly and eventually he sent a memo to, to Helms asking him to sign it to make sure that he,
it could prove that. And so later on in the House Select Committee, he got, saw that document
that, that, that Helms had signed about, you know, what was going on, this big argument. He,
they asked him, why did you sign Sully's thing? And he said, well, because I had to.
We weren't getting any work done. I had to take the bone out of my throat. He admitted in front
of the House Select Committee that he didn't believe the document he had signed and they were
just flummoxed at that. And that was his, that was his answer that, that, that he had, somebody
had to win in order to do any work. Everything had stopped because of this, the two sides were,
and Bagley was, you just, he couldn't refute his arguments. And so they had to just
do, you know, muscle their way through it. And, and so they didn't fire back. They, they gave them
a job, you know, overseas in, in Brussels and that's where Malcolm Blunt met him. And, and,
Malcolm Blunt and I were, were close and had been since I wrote Oswald and the CIA, which we
don't have that one on the table here. Anyway, that's a, it's a messy, complicated story. And
black and white you can find on both sides of the divide and the Cold War and in the world.
As far as Oswald goes, where did we left off with Oswald? The last time we spoke about him a
little bit earlier, he defected, he falsely defected to Moscow. And this information, this, the
documents regarding this came out publicly. How long ago did the US release these documents that
most of them, the million, six million pieces of paper were released in 2017, 2018.
2017, 2018, right. And this is, so this is publicly known that he defected to Moscow,
the false defection of Moscow. He was there in Minsk for a while, staying there, didn't like,
didn't want to come out. And that's where a lot of the Ukrainian KGBs were training at a high school.
Okay. He didn't want to come out until he got the mess, he only got the,
the heads up, it's time to come home. He was having a blast. He married a pretty woman.
There's pictures of him sitting there in, in Minsk. It's, it's, it's where the KGB higher
school of education is. And those are the, the people, the, some of the teachers in that,
in that the KGB school were the ones who were interrogating him and he knew it and they said
he knew he was being interrogated. Anyway, he was having a great time with his friends and some of
them were at that institute and some of them weren't, they were just from around town. It was,
it was his place where he lived was right downtown on the main, on the main street where the entire
cadet corps of that KGB school ran by his building every day, every morning. And so there came a point
where it was time to come home, right? It was nothing else for him to do or there. And the,
and one thing that they were interested in would be interrogating him to see what they, what the,
what the KGB had done to get his story. Right. You know, they don't get on the phone call and
call up Oswald and how's it going over there, Lee? You know, he had to come home to tell his story.
And boy, he, when he gets off the boat, there's a traffic jam in the world, man. It's called
the Cuban Missile Crisis. You name it, it's going on in, in the middle of 62. You know,
this is when Lemnitzer failing to get what he wanted out of Kennedy in the Bay of Pigs, failing
what he wanted to get out of Kennedy in Berlin two times, which would have been Armageddon for
us that, that we got out of that. And then comes the Cuban Missile Crisis. And Lemnitzer says to
himself, well, you know, Kennedy didn't go for it, you know, and the. Can you explain that meeting
that they had? There was a meeting, I forget the actual name of the meeting where Kennedy had to
go to with Lemnitzer and all these guys. Yeah, I'm just getting up to that. Okay, sorry. Yeah.
So Lemnitzer's idea, why he does this, why he says this to Kennedy is because he's thinking maybe,
you know, going into the Bay of Pigs, Kennedy didn't want to do because we were, it looked like
what it was, was we were beating up on a little country that hadn't really done anything.
So maybe if we give him a pretext, he'll be interested. And so the pretext was,
well, we shoot a couple of Cubans that are making out in Dingy's trying to go to, to Miami,
and then Miami, oh, we're going to shoot down a plane, by the way, over the, over the Gulf.
That's Operation Northwoods. Yes, this is all part of Northwoods. And we're going to kill
some people in, in Miami, and then we're going to blow some stuff up and probably killing people
in Washington. And we're going to tell the American people that Cruz, excuse me, that Castro did this.
Okay, we're going to tell the American people Castro did it so that the American people
will want to go to war with Cuba. And that is what I, what I say, you know, and I say it in the book
and into the storm, I already have that part of it in the book, you know, that was, he, he,
he violated his oath of office and, and selling the uniform in war. I said, that's in my book,
that's the way, and I'm going to say it and said it out loud and I'll keep saying it out loud.
Well, you don't, you don't go do things like that to trick the American people into going to war.
It's just, we don't do that. And when you do that kind of stuff, what do we got here?
It's not a republic. It's a, it's like a tyranny. And, and, and it, and it's, you know, eventually
become one, but there, it's, it's a very sad situation. Now, fortunately,
and in some terms, in some ways it's unfortunate, but the fortunate thing of what happened is,
in that meeting between Kennedy and Limit, Kennedy told him to, you know, get out.
I'm not going to do this. He, his precise words are, I've put it in the book, he doesn't swear
or cuss or anything, but he makes it clear we're not going to do what he wants. And,
and so Limitzer is turned down. Limitzer is coming up to his end of service and his end of tour
in the summer. And with a, with a flick of a pen and, and again, John Kennedy could have had him
extended as a chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff with, with a, you know, an act of Congress,
which is easy to do. He didn't do that. He let, he let that go. And he sent him over to Europe
and re-extended his, his, his term of service would have ended in the spring of 63. Anyway,
Limitzer ended up staying as the supreme ally commander of Europe for eons. And he kept getting
extended, you know, by other, Kennedy gets dead, you know, within, within a year. So Limitzer goes on
and on. But what Limitzer didn't know is about Operation Gladio. I mentioned it briefly in this,
in this conversation here that we were having. And you see, Limitzer knew about Operation Gladio
because he was actually working as a one star general with a bunch of generals that were putting
together the whole thing to, to, to protect Europe from a Russian invasion, the Soviet invasion.
And he was actually the guy who had a lot to do with what weapons were going to be taken from
weapons stocks of World War II, whatever, to send them over there. And so he, he knew, he would,
and, and he also knew because the Sack-Jure is one of the two or three people at the top. He is the,
the head of, of, of NATO basically. And he knows about those two committees, but he also knows a
lot about them because he helped supply those, those weapons way back in 1948. Kennedy has no
idea about Operation Gladio. He has no idea that they have these committees full of thugs and
assassins and all those kinds of people, right? So he delivered into the hands of Limitzer a bunch
of guys that could be sent back to the United States. They look like, you know, they're assassins
and you can have a ton of those guys running around Dealey Plaza and it just flood, flood the zone with
stuff. There's all kinds of things and people that turned up in Dealey Plaza that were from over there
and these bad guys, you know, that had, had records of doing stuff like that.
If you get into the Dealey Plaza stuff, you'll see it. You'll, you'll see, you know,
depending on which books you read, this guy was used of the guy who was doing a lot of stuff in
Spain or this guy, you know, the ex-Nazi guys that were in, in Germany and so on and so forth
end up being running around and all they are is they're just,
what do you call it when you, when you flood the zone so you can't, you can't find what you're
looking for. Right. Throw more, just throw more needles in the haystack. Yeah. Yeah, that's right.
So anyway, Limnitzer is over there, but here's the problem. Who replaced him?
Maxwell Taylor then did. Now, at the beginning of this conversation, we started talking about
like the Kennedy assassination and I was going to draw a line between the beginning of his presidency
when he said no to the Bay of Pigs all the way up to when he got assassinated. And I called it a coup,
I called it basically a military coup supported by elements of the CIA, those that few that were
privy to it. So Taylor, Taylor, I call him in my books the Trojan horse inside the gates,
not just of President Kennedy, but the Kennedy family itself. So what happens, how does this
happen? Limnitzer was working for Taylor in the Eisenhower administration. So Taylor was the chief
of staff of the army. And in Limnitzer was the deputy chief of staff of the army. And so
Taylor decided that we should change our policies, military policies,
from just these spasmodic nuclear weapons if we got into war that we should be able to,
if we get into a war, be able to have one without using nuclear weapons. This was called
flexible response. And he wrote, and he was, all the generals didn't like it. And so he realized
that he, you know, he was of no use. And there was no way he was, he decided to leave. And he
wrote a book on certain trouble on it. And his whole thing about flexible response. And so when
Kennedy decides that he wants to do an investigation of the Bay of Pigs failure, his brother, Bobby,
all of a sudden is put in charge of a lot of stuff because whereas he was just the attorney general,
after the Bay of Pigs, guess what happens to Bobby Kennedy? He's still the attorney general,
but he sits in every meeting from that day on, not at the table, but in a corner, in a chair,
empowered to, to pipe up anytime he wants and tell somebody, no, you're wrong about that.
Now, we have all these senior guys, military and civilian, that Bobby's pipe pops off too, right?
And so they don't like him. Nobody likes Bobby. He's like a rat terrier, you know, protecting his
brother after, after what happened. And, and so all of a sudden here comes, here comes Taylor,
he's brought in to this, this committee and in charge of it along with Bobby. Now, it's amazing,
everybody else hates Bobby Kennedy, but, but not Taylor. He loves him. He likes the president's brother.
And so what he knows is what he wants is he wants to get control. He is not a Kennedy supporter.
He is, in fact, there's a fear that, that having Taylor in the White House, the fear in the military
that, oh, oh, wait, you know, we've got a guy over there. How can we do our job with the new joint
Jesus after whatever they were? If, if the guy who's got the president's ear can, can go against us.
Right. And, but they fixed that. Taylor made a deal with Limitzer that, listen,
you tell me what you want to do first and I'll vet ways in which I can get Kennedy to go along with
it. So they were working together from the very beginning. Now, the next thing is we get to the
end of 61 and Kennedy decides that he wants, and everybody wants combat troops in Vietnam,
even at this time. By the way, Limitzer wants war in Cuba, Laos, and Vietnam all at the same time.
How can you do that? And you don't even have enough ground forces to fight one war. Right.
There's one answer. How are you going to do that? Nuclear weapons. You don't have to use ground
forces when you're going to blow the pogies out of everybody. Anyway, back on the ranch here.
So here comes Taylor and he becomes, so right after the, this investigation is over of the
Bay of Pigs, he learns from Bobby that John Kennedy is his brother, the president wants
him to take over the CIA because he's going to fire, he's going to fire Dulles.
And is it Bobby to take over the CIA? No, Bobby tells, tells Taylor that his father,
I mean, excuse me, that his brother wants, wants him to take over the CIA.
Got it. Okay. He's going to take over the CIA and, and, and Taylor says, no, I don't think so. My,
my wife and I, we've had too much travel overseas and I'd rather stay here. Now, look,
if you have something for me doing, dealing with military things, I'd be happy to try and help out.
Right. So, okay. He makes him his military assistant and he sends him over in, in December.
He sends him over to have a look around in, in Cuba.
No, it's, excuse me, not in Cuba, in Vietnam. He sends them to, to look at, at Vietnam, which
is starting to bubble, to bubble up pretty bad actually. A lot of, a lot of things going on
in terms of attacks, a Vietnam attack, but bottom line is he was sent there with a
direct order from the president to come home with a recommendation not to send combat troops.
It was phony. He was just, that was his job. That was, that was his job. His job was to go over
there, look around and come home and say, we don't need combat troops. Right. He comes home and,
and puts a proposal on the table to send combat troops under a flood relief task force cover.
Kennedy gets absurdly angry with him for doing that. He tries to recall all copies of the memo,
destroy it, and then he plants a false story in New York Times saying that he came back and
recommended it against combat. Kennedy did this. He does that to get even with, with, you know, he
plants stories and, and they don't know what to do about it because they know that he's behind it.
But anyway, and then, and so you would think that Kennedy would just fire him right there on the spot.
But the problem was that not only did he worm his way into the administration, he
worked his way into the Kennedy family. And so they loved him. And, and, and Bobby Kennedy
named his second son or third, his third, one of Bobby Kennedy named one of his sons, Maxwell.
After him. Yeah. And that guy named his son, Maxwell. Wow. So Kennedy lets him stay on, but not,
he can't deal with, with Vietnam, with Vietnam. He's, he loses his ability to
recommend things on Vietnam. But he's a weasel and he manages what happens by the time he
goes into 62 things are so bad that things are going to change. And so we have a new command
element, the military. What was there was the military advisory group. The advisory group
is going to be replaced by MacV, military assistance command Vietnam, a command, not just an advisory
position. So MacV comes in and the
the guy, General Carter, not General Carter, was it? No, I forget. I forget the name of the guy
who is, is assigned. Oh my God. Maybe I'll think of his name in a minute. So
whoever was that, that he sent as the MacV commander was actually Taylor's choice.
And he was Taylor's protege. So in effect, Taylor is still running Vietnam because the new MacV
commander is his guy. So after all the trouble we went through with the trip there and getting his,
getting them smacked down by JFK, he's still pretty much in control of what's going on in Vietnam.
So we go through 62. There's a huge order of battle thing going on that I describe in JFK in
Vietnam where the, all the forces of the Viet Cong forces are cut in not just in the half,
but 60% are eliminated after a big study is done. And the true story of what's going on in
Vietnam is not given to Kennedy. The false story he's given is that there's not that many troops.
And the truth is that there's a lot of them. Now what Kennedy had decided to do, there's three
options of Vietnam. We get out completely. We invade with troops. Those are off the table.
What's on the table for Kennedy is an advisory effort. But when those numbers were discovered,
how many Viet Cong were there, the advisory effort was dead on arrival. So they had to hide
it from Kennedy. But guess who knew all about it? The vice president got all the true reporting
and the president got all the false reporting. And I know about it because the guy who was
working was actually managing Lyndon Johnson, who was the vice president at the time.
Howard Burris was his name. And he took me to several places we, I met with him 15, 20 times
over a course of years. And he told me the whole story. He told me that whole story.
He didn't tell me some stories that I figured out later. But he knew that he had to give me
something. And that was a big deal. Nobody had heard about the order of battle deception
that had taken place in the spring of 62. Anyway, I don't want to spend too much time there,
but that's a big deal that had never been put out before and it is. And in army
books on the war, they have to use that now because it's true. And I was able to interview all
the people that were involved in it. So things continue to worsen all through the year. Kennedy
is busy with Cuban Missile Crisis and a few other things on the planet that it's not all about
Vietnam at that time. And so by the end of the year, Kennedy starts sending people over there
and sees that he's being lied to. And so what is happening is that Kennedy starts
making a plan to get out of Vietnam. And at the time, Kennedy is allowing somebody else,
and not Taylor, to be his advisor. And that's going to be McNamara. He reads,
he got so sick and tired of being asked to send combat troops that he blew up at the end of 1961
or 1962 when they put McVeigh together. And he brought in a lot of people he fired,
including Dulles and others that he fired and the replacements into one room.
And he walks in and it was short and sweet. He said, look here,
you either get with my program or you get out. And I want, who is it? Who's going to carry out
my policy in Vietnam? Who's it going to be? McNamara, the Defense Secretary puts up his hand
and said, I will boss. Me and L, that means LEMNATURE. But anyway, so there were Secretary of Defense
conferences for the rest of the two years, regularly. McNamara would go out and come back
and he would go at different times. But anyway, they fed him all the bad
information so that Kennedy wouldn't know. So they used McNamara as the vehicle,
while Burs made sure that Johnson got all the true order of battle stuff in Vietnam.
Anyway, I've got to hurry up here because what happens is Kennedy figures it out
and they know he's figured it out. And he knows that they know he's figured it out.
So they're kind of like in a game of chicken as we move into 63. Now at this time, excuse me,
at this time, we're, we move into a situation where something is, is got to give. And
in these sick def conferences that take place in, in the spring, there's a lot, by the way,
there's a lot of big Viet Cong strikes and stuff that are, that are just getting in the news and,
and things like that. But as, as we move into the spring of 1963, at one of these sick def conferences,
that is general there, by the name of Krulak, he ends up being, he's a Marine general,
he ends up being there with, with, I forgot to mention, I guess, when, I think I did. Tell
me if I, if I didn't, that, that when Lemnitzer was sent to sec, your Taylor gets the job as
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Right. Yeah. You said that. Okay. So Taylor's now in
charge of Vietnam. All right. And, and a guy he works with is General Krulak. Now they made a
plan called Commander in Chief Pacific operational plan 34 Alpha. What that was was a plan to invade
Vietnam and everything from pinpricks all the way up to evasion and, and, and, and old kinds,
you know, nuclear warfare, every, everything was, it was a total plan to take, to win a war
in Vietnam. And this is not. This is when also around the time DARPA was created, and they created
a bunch of different things, the chemical warfare that they were. Well, that's going to come, that's
going to come, that's going to come after, after Kennedy's death. Okay. Okay. Oh, okay. That's when,
you know, we send half a million troops over there. No, that we only had, all we had was
advisors. We weren't, we weren't doing the defoliants and stuff during Kennedy. Now there were, there
were some aircraft that were being flown, that were supposed to be flown by, by Vietnamese,
and they weren't, they just had some cooks in the back seat. And so we, there was technically
breaking some of Kennedy's rules. So there were some, some things that were over the line, but
nothing like what you saw in Vietnam. So we just, I mean, we just kind of got, got into the weeds
with everything that was going with the, the sec def meetings and the secretary of defense.
And we were on 1963. 1963. In the spring. And that's when they started to come up with a plan
to invade Vietnam and to be ready to do that. It was called out plan 34A. That's the short version.
It's, it's also a commander in chief Pacific designator on that, but we don't need to talk
about that. It's just that that's what they were doing. And what happened was Taylor and, and
um, Kurlak didn't want, what they did was they suppressed it. They didn't let that go back.
I see the, the, the, the contents and conclusions of a sec def conference are supposed to go
to McNamara and Kennedy. Right. Well, they suppressed this because it's, it's war in, in
Vietnam. And at the same time, you know, the first one of these, uh, uh, Buddhists
goods and sits in the middle of a, middle of a street intersection, dowses himself in,
in gasoline and lights himself and kills himself. And he's only the first of many. And in Kennedy,
he's just gets completely upset. Why is this happening? How come we didn't know this?
Anyway, it was, it was symptomatic of the whole political bottom falling out in Vietnam. There
was no support for the regime. What was going on, uh, the GM and his brother knew were, were very
corrupt and, uh, kept most, mostly they, they wanted, uh, troops and even of American forces
there just as to protect them, not to defeat the communists. They were just trying to
stay in power themselves. So it was, it was, it was just, it was a mess. And, and so Kennedy realized
that, uh, his plan was going to be to pull out after he was reelected. Uh, and that's basically
the, all, all of the, the troops wouldn't be pulled out till 65. And he could say things
like it's their war. They have to win it. He did that, but then he would say stuff like, but
you know, we have to, we have to help them. So he said things that, that misled people into thinking
and was used after his death by some books, saying that he would have done what LBJ did,
but he, there was no way that that was true. He, he just didn't come straight with the American
people because he was afraid, uh, as he was on other things, uh, African-American civil rights
and things like that. He didn't, he, they helped him get elected and he didn't want to do anything
until after he was reelected because he thought he would lose the Southern Democratic votes,
which was the base of the South. So you have this situation now in 63 where everything's going
wrong and he realizes, uh, and we need to talk about this too because he will, he will actually
go on television and say things. He wants to taunt with the Russians and he wants to, uh,
to really do civil rights and, and he wants to pull out of Vietnam.
Didn't he have a direct line with Khrushchev at this time at this point? Didn't he have
like a phone in his house and in the, and in the office?
I think of the Cuban Missile Crisis. It was, was where that happened. But, um, the, but the point
is that, uh, what is he going to do? Right? He realizes that, that it's over in Vietnam and he
can't wait until another whole year and a half or something to do anything about this, uh, because
by that time, it'll be too late to withdraw. There'll be no public, uh, support for it. And
so what he decides to do is to accelerate the withdrawal plan. So the new plan is that he's
going to, uh, pull out 100 advisors by before the end of the year. Okay. And he, he draws his line
in the sand. He says, I want, I want real troops. I don't just want, you know, ones he's enthused,
he's coming out and being replaced. I want to see, and he, and the helicopters too, you know?
So he's in, he's, he wants a real withdrawal to start in 1963. And, uh, and then after he gets
reelected, then he'll, all the troops will come out. Now this was kept secret for a while because
he, he didn't know what his opponents were going to do to him about it and what the American public
would do, what the newspapers would do and all that kind of stuff. So he kept it to himself,
but he sent Mack, the mayor and Taylor out together in, in, uh, at the end of September,
1963. And their job was to do the same thing as back in 61. They were supposed to go over there
and, and go, go visit all the Hamlets and stuff and counter chickens and hens and, and, and, and
went on to come home and recommend that, uh, we began the withdrawal from Vietnam. And they did.
Now on the way back home, the, the, the stopover in Honolulu, one of the, the, the number two
guy in the state department, his name was Sullivan. There was a couple of Sullivan's that were running
around, but he was one of them anyway. He said, he got ahold of, uh, uh, Taylor and he, and he said,
we can't do this. We can't be, we're not pulling troops out of Vietnam. We got to put more in.
If this stays in the report, he says, I'm going to write a, you know, a counter report. And so
they said, okay, no problem. We'll take it out. So you don't see it in the draft of the, of the,
of the report as it stood at Honolulu when they were on their way home. So they come home. It's,
um, first couple of days of, of October. And, uh, the helicopter lands in the, in the, in the garden
there and, and, uh, Taylor and McNamara walk into the White House and into the Oval Office. And, um,
and they sit down, uh, with a report. And the report looks like it was at Honolulu. And there's
all these press people in there. It's a press up and everything. And so after the press is out,
uh, before the conversation starts, McNamara and Taylor get up and say, just a minute,
and they leave the room, they go into the next room and they put the withdrawal plan
in the folder and they come out and it's just fucking pandemonium. Excuse my French. Um,
for the rest of the day, there's people down in the, in the, in the, uh, basements that are saying,
this is, this is crazy. Why, you know, why are we doing this? This is, this can't, it can't happen.
And so, uh, it ends up being a fairly, um, rigorous, uh, meeting that the Kennedy goes through and
tells people that the decision's been made. You know, and you can get out of here if you don't
like it, but you know, it's over. There's no argument anymore. This is what we're doing.
Now, this isn't in the newspapers, but this is what happened. And all the people that were
involved in this have written their stories and it's in the books everywhere. What happened that
day when they found out that Kennedy was, was proposing to start the withdrawal from Vietnam.
He didn't want to put it in a national security action memorandum, which is what, what happens,
you know, when a new policy is going to be made. But, uh, the, of course, uh, Taylor,
Taylor was on the wrong side. He, he told all of his, his buddies what was going on. So they,
the buzz got all around. And so it got into the newspapers, you know, the Kennedy was proposing
a withdrawal from Vietnam. And so, uh, um, McGeorge Bundy, his national security advisor,
who was a hawk, but was, I contend loyal to Kennedy and I can explain why, but, but anyway,
he says, look, boss, uh, if it's in the newspapers, we might as well put it in an
Ensam and they did. So even though the decision was made and discussed on the 2nd of October,
it wasn't until the 6th or the 7th of October that they actually cut Ensam 263, which was the
withdrawal from Vietnam and another part of it, which was a, an instruction to the, uh,
the station in, in Vietnam. And it didn't say what it was, but it was, uh, a coup against
the DM brothers. That was also in the Ensam, uh, that day. And so this is October. So Kennedy is,
is coming into the open, but he doesn't, what he does is he sends Taylor out, no,
McNamara, he sends McNamara out onto the steps of the White House to explain this Ensam and he
explains. So the reason he does that is to make it look like it's a recommendation of McNamara,
but Kennedy hasn't decided yet. That way, if something goes this way or that way, he's not,
he's not on the hook. And that's the way things are going. But everybody on the inside knows
what the hell's going on here. Now, um, so now we have, uh, the DM brothers are going to get
murdered. Kennedy has, uh, you, as this, you see this picture of his hand over his forehead. Oh my
God. And, and so, um, actually that was another, he had to do that a couple of times, but in any
event, um, they were at, they were at the point where it was going to happen. And so, um, after
the, what, what, what the DM assassination really requires is another sec death conference
in order to come up with a new policy because there, there's a regime change, right? In South
Vietnam, right? So now they, Secretary of Defense has to go talk to everybody and everybody goes
out to Honolulu for this one. And, uh, everybody, all the, the top guys and their, um, their guy who
does, um, uh, they're not reporters, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're publicity person.
Everybody who was anything in the, in the hierarchy of, of, of the establishment
said, so there's a lot of press there as well. And, um, it turns out that what happened that,
that day, uh, uh, was, uh, suppressed except for the, the briefing book. You see the date
that it happened was 20 November, 1963. This is 48 hours before the bullets are gonna kill Kennedy.
48 hours, but when they're all out there in Honolulu, and, and there's McNamara, uh, and,
and Taylor's doing the briefing, it's, uh, it's a military briefing. And the briefing says,
you know what? We've been wronged this whole time about winning the war. Actually, we're losing it.
It was the first time that the optimistic interlude that began in the beginning of 62 with the OB,
uh, reporting is now over. It starts back then and it ends two days before the president's murder.
They tell the truth at this place. McGeorge Bundy, uh, the, um, the, the national security
officer, he was there too. And, uh, I, there was a second NSAM that was made, not 263. This is
in November now. This is, uh, at the, at the very end, a new, a new NSAM was created
uh, before that conference and, and for it by McGeorge Bundy. And what it said was we need to
intensify the war effort, but we will use South Vietnamese forces to do so. And McGeorge Bundy
drafted that up. And that's the reason I believe that he was loyal to Kennedy, because if he thought
Kennedy was going to die, he wouldn't have done that. He thought Kennedy would be awake to see
that because Kennedy could approve that, that NSAM. Well, guess what happened? It got changed
the, right after, with hours after the assassination. And McGeorge Bundy had to take that and walk around
Washington to get the input into it. And there were a lot of happy-to-glads changes, but there was
one paragraph which had restricted the paragraph that restricted new intensification of the war
to South Vietnamese forces was, um, changed. And there were two big lines through it.
Wasn't a happy-to-glads. There were two just slashes in that whole paragraph. Right. So I got a
hold of McGeorge Bundy and I said, I needed, you know, to ask you about, you know, the stuff you
did out there. He said, I don't remember being there in Honolulu. And I said, Oh sir, you know,
I'm sorry to tell you, but, you know, your names on a lot of the papers and things. And he said,
look, do me a favor, would you send them to me? And I said, sure. And I did. And he got
hold of me right away. He said, Oh yes, you're right. I remember now, a lot of people were very
upset psychologically when the president was killed, okay, especially in the ones in his
administration. They were, it was kind of like, you know, being in a new planet somewhere, you
know, it just, it wasn't, they weren't ready for this. And I think a lot of them did suppress
what they heard that day. But anyway, McGeorge Bundy was totally straight with me. He said,
that was, yeah, and that was me. That was me walking that ensam around for, to see if there
were any changes. And I said, okay, well, let's go to page three. Who, who, although it was your
slash marks, you know, through there. And he said, yeah, and I said, well, who told you to do that?
And he said, LBJ. LBJ told me to do that. And the new language in the, in the new, in the new
NSAM 273 version two, it was published that weekend. Well, it's Kennedy's corpse is still laying in
state in Rotunda said, there was, there was no, there was no cap on it. There was, it didn't rule.
It didn't say Vietnamese forces. It was any forces you could want. So if you're, if you're a,
a war planner, looking at that paragraph, you know, everything's on the table now.
It's a reversal of Kennedy's from the very beginning, from Cuba in the beginning,
all the way to Vietnam, no damn combat troops. And so that's the, the last chapters here in my book
J.F.K. in Vietnam, where we write about how this happened. Now, so here's the bad news.
I told you about crew lack and, and plan 34A. What happened during the last six weeks of Kennedy's
life was the NSAM 63, 63, the withdrawal plan from that moment up to the time that he was assassinated.
General Taylor was actually working against Kennedy to gut the withdrawal plan behind
McNamara's back. Didn't tell McNamara what he was doing, gutting the withdrawal plan.
And at the same time, standing up up plan 34A at the same time, also, of course,
behind McNamara's back and Kennedy's back. Now, if you, you have to ask yourself a serious question
there, why would he be doing that? Why did he tell the truth only 24 hours before the president's death?
So what I'm trying to tell you is that's, that's, that is the pièce de résistance of what I saw him do
when he came back to and gave Kennedy the thing he didn't want to hear back in 61, you know,
with his combat troops under flood relief, task force, all this stuff.
He was, knew, he had to know, he had to know what he was doing and everything was ready.
Everything was finally ready. Now, one thing I didn't mention that I now need to mention
that dovetails with what is happening here in this six weeks is something that happened
after the Bay of Pigs and actually just around the time that Taylor was brought in
to the investigation group of the Bay of Pigs. Okay.
The, there is a subcommittee of the National Security Council called the NES, the National,
it's, it's the Net Evaluation Subcommittee of the National Security Council and it's all military
guys and including, but one, the, the head of the CIA, Allen Dawes. And they do something called
a PSIOP. I think I told you at dinner last night, I can say what that is, strategic
integrated operation for nuclear warfare. Not a psychological operation, the other kind of PSIOP.
Yeah. Okay. So, so what?
It's a plan for nuclear warfare that is briefed to the president every year
for the next fiscal year. Okay. It's a prediction.
Okay. And Eisenhower was the first one to get one. And, and this is when, you know,
he's increasing nuclear weapons to save money and, but he sees, they tell him what's going to
happen. Even though we have a lot of weapons and all that, he was absolutely stunned. Eisenhower
was president when he saw how many American casualties and casualties around the world
were going to be. Right. And so he did not want to do that. And he would never have done that,
but any, any event, that was the first PSIOP. And then Kennedy becomes president.
And so in, in the beginning or the, the end or not the beginning, the middle of the first year
was in 61. And instead of giving him the PSIOP for 62, they did something different.
And of course, the background is what happened at the Bay of Pigs and everything.
And Kennedy is, is, had to go on TV and say it was my mistake and he did. He took a responsibility.
He was kind of at his nadir because Khrushchev was kicking his ass in Vienna,
uh, you know, saying terrible things about war. And so Vienna, the Vienna conference didn't go
good and, and the Bay of Pigs hadn't gone good. This was that kind of a low point for Kennedy.
And so they sit down and they brief him on not the 62 PSIOP, but a PSIOP for the fall of 1963.
And so what they do is they tell the president that that's a special time that we, we could,
and they would, we're recommending a surprise total nuclear attack against Russia, China,
all that stuff in the fall of 1963, because that was the opportune moment before the Soviet Union
the Soviet Union would have to start bringing online ICBMs and we would have be at our maximum
power and a maximum advantage on both sides when you compare the nuclear power. That's what they
briefed him on. So he gets up and he, he says, I don't want to hear any of this kind of talk again.
And, and he's walking through the door in his way. You hear him say, and we call ourselves the human
race. That was his reaction to the PSIOP that they were talking about. There were other PSIOPs along
the way, but that was a, here's the importance of that. And, and what I'm interested in is knowing
who all was there. When did this meeting take place again? July 1961. Okay. The plan was for
63 in the fall. Yeah. The fall of 63 to do this surprise spasmodic throw everything and the kitchen
sink all at once. Now, the point I want to make here is that idea wasn't dead in the fall of 63.
We have what I just told you shows you, it was alive and well in 1963. Right. Okay.
And Sam 263 and the first version of 273 were being replaced, you know, by a PSIOP.
Now, the question is, how many people in the CIA knew about this?
Because we've got a whole new Oswald thing unfolding at this time, all through the summer of 63.
And in the fall, when he ends up out there in Mexico City, and we have another records, you know,
Can we jump to him real quick and explain what was going down with Oswald in 63?
Well, Oswald is on his way. He's got the, you don't actually need a visa to get into Mexico,
but you get in line and you get a piece of paper. How long had he been back in the U.S.
from Russia? He got off the boat in the second of June 1962 when everything was a mess in the
Cuban Missile Forces. Now we are in 1963. He's been there the whole year establishing his Castro
legend. It starts in January when he puts a placard around his neck. It says, Viva Fidel.
Right. That's when you know it's game on because he's already been a commie in the Soviet Union.
And now, you know, he's going to wear the Castro badge as well. Remember Castro on the KGB and Oswald?
Yep. Okay. So here we have him now in Mexico City. Now his story when he gets there,
and I have a reason to believe he was there, but he was also impersonated. That's another whole
story that people want to talk about and argue about, but I think it's very simple. Anyway,
what he is doing is he goes his first day to the Cuban consulate and says, I need a visa
from you to go to Cuba because I want to go through Cuba and go back to Moscow again. I want
to go back there. I'm re-defect. He wanted to re-defect. He told, this is the Cubans,
that he wanted to re-defect again to the Communist side. He wanted to go over to Russia again.
Now, and you have to understand that this is about the time, this is not even,
this is October. This is the first week of October. Actually, the day he went to the Cuban
consulate, I think it was probably technically something like 30 September.
Didn't he meet with the head of assassinations there?
Well, that's the rushes. I'm getting there, but he starts with the Cuban consulate. Now,
what she says to him is, look, where's your Russian visa? We can't give you a transit visa if you
don't have the Russian one, and besides which, you don't even have any pictures with you. So,
he has to go to a booth and take pictures of himself, and then he goes over to the Russian embassy.
And yes, one of the consular officials, one of the two consular officials is
Valery Kostakov. They're all consular officials. He just so happens to be
the KGB head of assassinations in the Western Hemisphere Division.
And that was what he was supposed to be doing. They wanted to make sure that he has contact
with Kostakov. Who told him to do this stuff? Who told him to do this stuff in the first place,
to go over to Moskow? His handlers, he had handlers who told, you need to get the story first, and
then we can maybe draw straws as to who and how many people, very few people are in on this.
And this is not solely. This is not solely. No, this is another, but it's the same thing.
They learned about it. They understood what happened, whoever was behind it. Just let me,
let me play this out with you. So, what happens is, the Cuban, excuse me, the Russians,
Soviets tell them, look, you're an American. We can't give you a visa here. The only place you
can get a visa from is your embassy in the United States in Washington. So, I'm sorry.
So then he goes back to Durand, Sylvia Durand and the Cuban consulate and says, yeah, they're
going to, they agreed to give me my, my visa. Right. She said, really? She talks to Kostakov
every day because I got, she picks up the phone, calls Kostakov and says, I got this guy here,
says you did, and then he's, no, no, no, no, no, no. That didn't happen. He was, he's a kooky guy,
you know. And so she said, nah, you're busted. We're not, we're not doing that.
Okay. And so he's, he's out of, he's out of bullets for that Friday. So he goes back on Saturday
and tries again with the Russians. And all of this is, is reality, this part of it.
So he should, he really has no business going there because the, the, the embassies and consulates
are closed on Saturdays. Well, it just turns out that on Saturday mornings, the, the Russian
consulate guys have a volleyball game. And so they're all there showing up in their shorts and
stuff. And here's, and the guard says, you know, buzzes them and says, there's this guy Oswald
out here wants to talk to you and says, well, they let him in. And so they go through it again.
And, and they, he, he puts his, he puts a revolver on the table and says, hey, what the FBI does to
me? You know, all the, they won't, they won't help me. So he's, he's saying he wants to go back to
Russia so bad and he can't get any help, you know, from, from Americans and he, you know, what,
oh, what was me? What can I do? So they said, okay, here's what we're going to do. We're going to
send a message to Washington that you need to fill out to request a visa and then they can send it
to you here from Washington. How about that? He just pushes the paperwork away and walks out.
That is the end of reality. Now it becomes Hollywood net, Hollywood, what I want to say,
fun and games. Phone calls start to be made and it's somebody calls up and, and, and, and starts
saying, asking for documentation and says, how has, has the reply come back yet from Washington for me?
Now the problem with that is there was nothing sent to Washington in the first place. Oswald
didn't fill that out and didn't care. Right. So you have to, you have to understand how that's
possible. And so there's a lot of people who just swear that, that there, there was a, an
imposter there, not Oswald. Calling and asking about it. Yeah, just basically Oswald didn't go
there. There was an imposter that went, went down there. Oh, oh, okay. So no, I have something better
because I had, when I wrote one of the, whatever book we're talking about here, I, all the, the
CIA was able to actually interview the Russians and the, the, the Cubans that were there. They
agreed to go to do a deposition of everything they remembered that happened in their consulate,
if it was Cuba, the embassy, if it was Russian. And the fact of the matter is that it was obvious
whoever was on the phone, there was more phone calls that were made. There was three of them.
But at every point it didn't, it didn't jibe with what we know happened inside the consulate
and the embassy. So that gave me the, the clue that, and actually the answer. Oswald failed
in his job to get the visas. He wasn't really going to go anywhere, but the, the CIA had a lot of
Cubana airline pilots that were on to take that as long as he got the visa, they could say he
would had been in Cuba. And there was already stuff in the mail coming from a, from a guy in
Cuba saying, hi, Lee was great seeing you here and all that. So all this stuff was in motion.
Right. And of course he never got the visa. So he was in trouble. They sent him there to tie
himself to Castro and again to remind everybody that he was KGB too. Right. That's what he did.
Now I have to tell you, here we have, we're, we're, we're just weeks away from the motorcade.
And the first thing that the FBI has to do for a motorcade is to know everybody who works on that,
on that trip, on the route, on the route, exactly. Anybody who is even questionable is removed
physically from that route or the route has changed. And so that's why Oswald wasn't taken off
the parade route. Everything was suppressed. Everything he did down there was put in a different
place until after the shots were, were, were, everything that he did in Mexico meeting at the
consulate and the embassy, all those documents. The whole year, the whole shebang of, of playing,
you know, that, that what he did in, in Dallas, in, in New Orleans, and again, then in New Orleans,
then back in Dallas again, none of that stuff made it into his 201 file. Why? Because he would have
been moved from the parade route. Who made it so that those files were not available to anybody
question. Good question. We know where they were filed. I think I brought, I don't know. I have,
I have these, these, these cover sheets where it shows that who read this file or that file.
And it's, it's very clear that they, they were not, he already had a 201 file. It was opened in,
in 1962, too late for, for a lot of reasons, but that's not the point here. His 201 file had been
opened for a long time and all the stuff he did in 1963 didn't go into it. It was hidden in another
place. It's like, it's just like solely having all the documents coming from all the other
government agencies being hidden at his, his desk so nobody could, could know what happened except for
him. So the same thing was going on only this time the documents were sent to a place called the
SAS. And it's basically that's, that's the Cuban affair staff. It's a huge staff now because of
the Cuban problem. And there's a guy by the name of Desmond Fitzgerald who has to know he's the head
of SAS and probably his deputy, but nobody else really knows that all these, these Hoover
letterhead memorandums about everything Oswald was doing in New Orleans and stuff were, were
not put, put into a one file. So then you have a situation while he's down there, while Oswald
is down there in Mexico City, when Scott, who is the head of the CI station, has to ask a question
because they don't know who he is. So they sent a cable to headquarters who is a guy named,
using the name Lee Harvey Oswald walking all around here. Who is he? What do you know about him?
Now the guy who was in charge of the Mexico City desk, his name was John Witton.
And the only thing they gave him to answer when Scott was down there in Mexico City was the 201
file. And he said, Oh, well, hell, the latest information we have was May 62. Oswald was still
in the Soviet Union then all his entire life had been expunged for the purposes of the communication
going between headquarters and Mexico City. So the lights didn't blink red. Right. The CIA.
Now over at the FBI at the same time, somebody took Oswald off the espionage list of its start,
which started when he went to Moscow back in 1959. Right. Nobody could put anything in the
Oswald file or read anything in the Oswald file without getting permission from the espionage
section of the FBI the whole time, until while all the lights are turned off in the CIA, the same
thing happens in the FBI. He's taken off the espionage list. So he's not on there for the
cruise that's supposed to remove people on the on the route of the motorcade. Who who could have
done something like that? Somebody who is very powerful, who is basically saying you're going
to do this. Now, how powerful? Well, you have to have somebody pretty high in the CIA to do it.
This is a CIA. It has to be CIA. Well, the 201 file part, not the FBI part. Right. There's a lot
of people that I could guess at, but it's not important right now. I'm working on this. And
this is why I don't write my book yet, because I have plenty of time. But I'm very close to answering
these exact questions now. And it's and it's not just the CIA. It's the military who are in
are actually taking Kennedy's plan and shit canning it and replacing it with an invasion plan.
You have to understand that's going on at the same time as this files caper. Okay. Right. So there's
military people involved. There's got to be somebody in the CIA who is a fireman. So what they're
doing is they've created a the true the true story of everything Oswald did is going to blow up like
a virus that's going to balloon big time as soon as the shots ring out. Now, for me, rather than
try and identify every single human being, I want to know the nexus of the people in charge of this
operation. And then we can work it down from there without telling without understanding who's
running the show. It's pretty difficult to say, okay, it has to be this guy or this guy.
Clearly, John Witton at the Mexico desk that that that element was not involved.
Okay, they did they didn't see it. Now we have we have the records now, by the way,
those same sheets, routing and record sheets, when you when you assign another government agency
document in the CIA, it comes in with the document, but you have a routing sheet on the front and
everybody who reads it has to sign put their initials and the date that they saw it. And so
down at the bottom, it shows the file where it was filed. And it should all everything should have
been filed in his 201. But it isn't it's 100 dash 300 dash 11. That's the FPCC file over in SAS.
And then later, there's a line through it at that was put through it after the Kennedy
assassination, they line through it and put his 201 number in there, you see the two numbers
on all these. Now, this House Select Committee asked for those routing and record sheets,
they wanted to see him. And you know what happened? The CIA said, no, you can't have them.
And this is our elected officials. So it was in 2017, 2018. And I even had another chance,
there was something, another a few boxes that my my friend Jay Harvey and I found
some years before that when there was five brown boxes of stuff that was put
put up before the big release in 2017, 2018, it was during the ARB, there was a small
five boxes of stuff. And there were some of those routing sheets there with a lot of blackouts.
But anyway, I got ahold of them later on. And it was just devastating, it's devastating stuff.
So what you have here is stuff going on involving again, like I said, you've got
a military, I think a military coup. And they have their things that they have to do.
But then you have before the assassination itself happening, what you have to do is have
a plan for the cover up. And that can't be made, you can't decide what your cover is going to be
after the after the shooting, it doesn't work that way. It requires careful coordination and
control of who knows it. So we're talking about military and civilian CIA, some people. So where
am I starting my investigation for this? I want to go back to where the idea started. The idea
started in July 1961, where the perfect time to do this big attack would be the fall of 1963.
And Kennedy had said no over and over and over again. So who was there? Who was there? And
I got the list of names of the people that were sitting there. And the name that popped out right
away is a guy who just became came on board for Kennedy. His name was Maxwell Taylor. He sat there
and watched. And he was the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the fall of 1963,
putting in the plan that Kennedy didn't want and the one that the chiefs had wanted back in 1961.
I want to not go too much farther in some of these things. You were right about one thing.
There's a few things I'm still working on that I don't actually want to put on the table.
But that's where I'm going. I'm looking very carefully at who could have been in both places
or could have had access to somebody in the CIA or the military who was then involved or in a
position to do these types of things and hide things. There was another defector who said that
there was former US presidents that were aware of the plan to assassinate Kennedy.
This is the story about the true Oswald story in Minsk.
So we had a lot of investigations, the Warren Commission and then the Senate and then the
House of Representatives. That was all over by the 70s. But defections were still going on.
And a KGB defector came over to the CIA in 1981. His name was Sergei Papushin.
It took me a while to figure out that out. The CIA tried to make it hard because they were told
not to reveal the guy's name. But I have my ways of figuring things out in a newspaper article
and a few other things allowed me to put it together. So he told us the story.
The first, actually, there was a story about him from another guy. Jirolev was his name, I guess.
And he said that there were two conspirators with Oswald, two American presidents that had
conspired with Oswald to kill President Kennedy. Now the problem with that was that
the previous presidents, there was only Truman and Eisenhower because Kennedy was dead.
And everybody else before him was dead. So whoever two presidents was,
that there was only two presidents there could be. And that's crazy. And so
it was almost just throw it in the trash can, except for there was another couple of lines
in this thing that mentioned, but there was a guy who defected who was bona fide. And his name
was Sergei Papushin. So then this crazy memo of this guy who walked in, we think maybe in Canada
to say to get a CIA guy to tell the story to. There was another, there was a throwaway sentence
at the bottom and the ARB got it and looked at it. And it was a little guy who really was
nondescript. I don't even remember his name, but he wasn't in the hierarchy of it. And so
went all the way up to the top and then they asked the CIA about it. Well, the CIA actually,
and you have to understand by this point, it's 1998. Okay. That's when the ARB is the last
week's 1998. When this, when, when they put the story together, they figure out his,
they get a CIA, um, Krypton M, uh, IJD Cantor, and they get the FBI pseudonym flash run. And I,
I get all this stuff on those things and they're the same guy. I can see, I can see that.
And so you can put this, this guy's personality together and, and there, there's, there's the
ballgame. Um, he, there were a lot of episodes in his history before he, he died allegedly,
uh, suicide by one-fifth of, uh, liquor, you know, under his bed. He dies after doing that. And
that's not, that's not very convincing. And it was right after his handlers came to visit him, right?
Yep. That's right. Um, but in any event, they, the CIA forked over all this stuff, asked, asked for
the, the review, the review board to, uh, not to mention the name and not to do this or that,
but they, they, they sent the whole, a whole big bunch of stuff that I used. Um, interviews, tapes,
that you could hear talking, all this stuff they sent. So we have plenty of, plenty of stuff to
work with, even the stuff that was released. And, and, uh, the newspaper article was very
helpful because it had the story, somebody had the story, but not the name. And I put the,
the story together with the other stuff I had, and it was easy to figure out his whole history.
So, but anyway, what he also told us led to, um, the Oswald story in Minsk,
because this guy, uh, had personal contact and knew those, those, he had visited, uh, the
KGB school there later. And, and some of those teachers were still around. And they told him
what they, they had talked to Oswald and everything. So this came out, he's, his defection was 81.
But it is, it wasn't until much, much later that all these pieces came together just before the,
the ARRB closed shop. So there were, there were a lot of FBI files that, that were not
collated with the CIA files and so on. So it took a number of years for all this to happen.
But it was easy. It was just so easy because I had all the information and that, and, and you
could look at the chapter yourself and decide whether you, you like it or not. And if you don't
like it, that's, well, that's your, that's your prerogative. But it is, it is one of these things
that has multiple independent attestation. And there's nothing he could do about it.
The FBI files, the CIA files, everything fits together. This guy was for real. He was
bona fide and, but eventually, uh, something happened. They didn't like something he was doing.
And it's, it's, we have precious time. Now we don't have to worry about that. But that's
how I put that chapter together and how it was the last act of the ARRB that was sitting wide in
the open all this time. And I finally decided to use it. I hadn't used it in any of my books and
I decided because we were talking about, you know, Oswald over in, in, in Russia, I thought,
well, it's time to put that in the book. So chapter three is, you know, Oswald and Minsk.
Now the interesting thing is the guy who's written the most about this, his name is
Titovitz, the people read his book. He was there. He knew Oswald. He was a friend of Oswald's. He
didn't say anything about any of this. We're not really sure why that he wouldn't know any.
Is this the guy who was a roommate with him? No, he wasn't a roommate, but he was a friend.
Okay. And what was the significance of the two letters that he wrote back to CIA when he was
trying to get back? There's one that apparently never got there. Yeah. So it's important for a
couple of reasons. What it does, what happened with the two letters actually allows us to see
that there was a CIA penetration that was trying to be covered up. And it looks like the House
like committee actually cooperated. So Oswald wrote a letter in 1960
at the time that his 201 file was being opened, by the way. Anyway, he, and that's what triggered
the 201 opening was that he had asked the, he didn't ask to come home. He asked the letter asked
the American consulate to give him his passport back so that he could go back to the United States.
And now what happens is then there's another letter in January that says,
hello, this is Oswald again. You didn't answer my first letter that I sent asking to go back,
whatever. So he actually, that's a first line in his second letter is, you know, I sent you the
first letter. And so when the House like committee gets this, they go along to the CIA to say there
was no first letter. And they, they say everything that's in the second letter, but they leave the
first line out where Oswald says my first letter. The HSCA doesn't include that sentence. So that
tells me that somebody asked them to help protect a sensitive source, which would be how in the hell
that what happened to that letter, that first letter. Right. And it was pinched by the KGB.
And the problem is that later on, they didn't want anybody to know because that's when the 201
file was opened. And there's another guy be other people behind that. But anyway,
I was able to put that story together. And without knowing, but it was just something I found
late enough to get it into, I believe the Oswald CIA book, which was 1995. And if not then in a
in another one of my books, I think, I think by then, I'd already figured it out.
Because this is 95. Okay. So the CIA, excuse me, the KGB falls apart in by 91. It's all over,
not just the KGB, but the whole Soviet Union is gone. And so there was a period, a honeymoon
period, where both sides were talking to each other. We gave them a lot of money to get rid of
weapons of toxins and things, and suitcase nukes and things like that. There was a lot of cooperation
trying to get our arms around all the things that could be sold on the black market and things like
that. But also for the media had a field day, they sent in people over there and interviewing
people, it was all okay for a while. Later on, Putin took care of everything. But anyway, the
point is that ABC News got in there. And it was a Ted Koppel at 11 o'clock p.m. I remember watching
those shows back then. Anyway, they were given access to the Oswald files and the letter was in
there. There it was. It was his biggest day. The letter was there. And so there was no doubting
about that first letter Oswald. And so here's the other thing it told us though, because his diary
didn't have it. And there's no way he would have put it in his diary. So there are a lot of things
wrong with that diary that we think that diary was made after his death. We think
they had a version, they had a version, but they made another version because there were other
things they wanted to cover up. Some of the sources they may have had sensitive sources,
who knows what it would all was behind it. But anyway, I told that story about the two letters.
And the first letter was sent at the time of the 201 opening in 1960. And they didn't want to know
anybody to know about that. And so they used the State Department for some help and so on.
Anyway, there's a lot more details to it, but it's a fun story to tell because we know somebody
actually found the letter, the first letter that... What did the first letter say? Was there anything?
Yeah, I would like to come back to Moscow and get my passport from you.
Because I'm planning to, and I need help, and I need money. He asked for money too,
to take his family back to the United States. Anyway, it took a couple of years, not two years,
but a long time, 20 months before he actually got on the boat with his wife.
We were talking last night, you said there was basically three main reasons that we're so far
behind. We're so far behind in analyzing everything that happened during the Cold War and
everything that you're finding with Kennedy. And one of the big points was about Martin Luther King.
It is 2023 now. And still, I'm writing books like this that have these big stories. And I get to the
King's story in a second, but that's just one of them. And all of this stuff was available back in
2017, and some of it even before then. But certainly by 2017, 2018, there are six million pieces of
paper. Now, there are so many people who call themselves researchers who don't do research,
but they do read other people's books. Now, it doesn't take very much research before we have
a book that is going around the table from one guy to the next guy to the next guy to the next guy,
and it never goes anyplace else. So we never make very much progress if the vast majority of people
who are getting into the Kennedy assassination are just reading other people's books and
and regurgitating the same stuff. So these are examples that like, for example, this Oswald story
we just told about in Minsk, that was there the whole time. The MLK story is a big one.
And I broke that story in Memphis this year on the 55th anniversary of his assassination down there.
And we had a meeting down there. We got put in a basement. They took away a good room from us and
gave us another one because it was I guess it was I don't know why it happened anyway. It was very
hot there. But anyway, I gave that presentation and it was brand new. And I mentioned some things
that had never been mentioned before. The only thing I didn't give up was the name of the
of the person that was working with the CIA
for the CIA is a mole in Martin Luther King's inner circle. And I didn't mention the name of his
case officer in the CIA. Originally, it had gone back all the way to basically
in the 1930s even before World War II. Initially, there were a lot of communist parties in the
West that were basically communist parties only because they were anti fascists. So the
communists were part of that. They were against fascism. And before World War II, along the
run up to World War II, there was a pact that Stalin and Hitler made together, the Nazi Soviet
pact. And this allowed the Russians to go off to do their thing in the Far East with the
nationalists versus the communists over there and gave Hitler plenty of room to go take Europe.
But the moment that that thing was public, the people were the the communist parties in the West
were running for cover. They're all got they all left the communist parties because of the
Nazi Soviet pact because of Hitler. And so there was this one guy who was an opportunist who was a
high school dropout. And he had joined the Communist Party too. And he was he liked money and he liked
to get his hands on it. Anyway, he ended up being high up in the the whole monetary structure of
the Communist Party and the American Communist Party and also in specifically he was he was
head of the Chicago funding of the Communist Party up there. So when the Nazi Soviet pact occurred,
he takes off. He steals all the money for the Chicago section of the ACP, American Communist
Party, and takes off to Mexico with it. Now the CIA doesn't exist back then. It's it's it's all FBI and
the FBI has a place down there. And the FBI catches him with all this stolen money. And so
he's basically the short story here is he's he's given a choice jail or you spy for us in civil
liberties groups or civilian civil rights. And so very soon after that you end up with with World
War Two. And there's a lot of things going on where the CIA eventually becomes the CIA. But there's
even you know, there's stuff going on during World War Two, while Bill Donovan and in all the these
groups that are are sent in to the war, British and Americans, not not just American. So
where we end up is that this guy that I'm talking about now ends up
working for the FBI in Washington. Okay. And he's had
by this time, he's he's looking for people that are in King's Inner Circle, one guy's name Stanley
Leveson. And Stanley Leveson had been a communist who was no longer a communist. And he joined
Martin Luther King shortly after the bus boycott began. And he was a very capable lawyer and very
big help to the king. And then there was another guy who helped him, his name's Harry Belafonte.
And he brought not just money, but a lot of prestige to it. And he was another guy who
who helped King out a lot. Now this mole ended up wiggling his way into both of their lives.
And he made a company with Leveson and he kept all the money. And then there ended up being a
fight between them. And Leveson got his money back from this guy, this con artist. But under the
condition that he never talked about it to anybody that they made the deal. So pretty soon,
Leveson's wife, ex-wife, ends up marrying the con artist. She's a, she's a psychotherapy.
That's what she does. She has the degrees and everything. She's for like, you know, she does
mine stuff. Yeah. And so he has some, some needs for some help with that. And so he picks her. They,
they find a way to get him during one of his presentations and, you know, because he's a
very famous entertainer. And so they show up at some events and pretty soon he worms his way in.
And, and then she becomes his psychotherapist. Harry Belafonte does. Now it's usually at the
end of the day. And then there's drinks afterwards and all this kind of stuff. And then he, I don't
really know whether he was under hypnosis or if he was, he can't remember, but he, what he does
remember is that they were pumping him for names and, and stuff on, on African-American
civil rights people, lots of them. And it really bugged the hell out of him. And so
he eventually decided he told his, one of his lawyers, because what had happened was,
he wanted some money. He had made a lot of money. He wanted just, there was a black effort
somewhere in Harlem. He wanted some money back to use for that. And, and, and the con guy said,
no, no, no, it's, it's, it's invested in, in soybeans and stuff. And, you know, it's making a
good profit. No, you can't do that. So he told his, his lawyer, he wanted to, to confront.
He wanted to confront this guy. And his lawyer said, no, don't do that. Let me do an investigation.
Now this guy was, you don't argue with this guy. He was a Longshoreman lawyer for the Longshoreman.
And those guys are, are, not to be crossed. And he came back with a real story. The whole story
I just told you is it came from this guy. His name is Katz. And they, they'd given him a nose
job and everything to change his, his, and he, he, this guy is his, his, his heritage was Russian,
Romanian. And so they turned him into an Irish Catholic.
It's a high school job out. And so, yeah, he's, he's, he's involved. And so, but,
so when he comes back, he tells, he tells Harry Belafonte the story. Harry Belafonte is okay.
He said, let me handle this. So Katz shows up in the office. The secretary's there and he says,
hello, Mr. X. And he tells his, his real name. And that name hasn't been used in years. And uh-oh,
he tells the secretary to leave the room. And then Katz tells him what's going to happen.
He's going to get all the money back or else. So they, they, they do this and, and, but
the, the con artist managed to get the same deal. They love us in the head. Can't tell anybody about
it. They got all his money back and then some. So here you have, and they become Levison and, and
Belafonte become some of the most important people in King's thing after, during and after
the, the, uh, bus boycott, which lasted a whole almost two years. Wow. So, um,
we've asked forward here now to a time which is very important actually for students of the
Kennedy assassination who know that John Kennedy, as I said, did, did want to pull out of Vietnam
till after it was elected. And so he hadn't done very much, but then he did. He faced the music
in the summer of 1963 because the bottom was falling out. And he needed to do it before,
he needed to cast it in concrete before the whole possibility would, would be, be gone.
And he did the same thing on two other things. On the 10th of June, he went to university,
he went to American university in, in Washington and delivered the commencement address.
And he made this one of the most famous speeches ever.
Is this the speech about secret societies?
No, about they taunt.
Okay.
He told Khrushchev that he wanted, they, he wanted to mend fences completely,
would open up the space program for those guys to, and all this stuff.
Can you know how the generals felt about that?
So it was, yeah, it was all about they taunt and, and stopping this, this, this war, this,
this cold war and everything. And he said, you know, if we have to fight, we're prepared,
but we don't want to do that. And he, it was such a great speech.
And people were kind of freaked out that the students didn't know what to think about it.
Because nobody had a, had, had a speech beforehand,
but it's, it was televised and you can watch it. It was on 10 June.
Can you pull it up?
1963.
1963. What's the name of the speech, the day taunt?
Well, that's what it was about. But it's, it's the American university commencement speech.
But the very next night on television, on live television, it's a long speech he gives on civil
rights. And it's a, it's a real wing dinger. I mean, he goes back and he says, nothing has
happened since Lincoln, you know, and so he's, he's confessing his own, you know, he's, he's
getting the courage of his convictions. These are things he was going to do after he was elected,
civil rights bill and, and a day taunt. Why does he do it then? He, he has to get,
do the Vietnam thing because he's got to get it in concrete before it's too late.
Right.
And he thinks he's got, he knows he's, that they're going to assassinate him somewhere.
We've had a Chicago plot. We've had a Miami.
There was a lot of Tampa, right? Right here.
Yeah. So.
So how, yeah, explain that real quick.
So what I, what I'm, what I'm telling you is Kennedy is a, they were always afraid. That's
why they didn't clean house when they got in power. They were afraid of the military. And so
my last book, when I get to it, when I eventually do what I've been asked to do by so many people,
which is go ahead and just finish the damn thing, you know?
Just give us the answer, would you?
Yeah, exactly. Well, it's going to have a title. I like this first one,
where angels tread lightly. That was like from a poet, a little bit different, but that was
some, June Cobb, who was a CIA infiltrator in, in Cuba, lucky to get out alive. She used that,
that. So I thought it was, it was cool. And the rest of these things, Countdown the Darks,
Into the Storm, the more, tell you a little bit more about what's going on, but the title for
my last book is going to be The Watchman, Wacath in Vain. Now, and the reason for that is because
on the day Kennedy was assassinated,
he was going to give a big speech at the, at the trademark. The trademark was basically
a couple hundred yards past the, the overpass. They were almost there. Okay.
And his opening to that speech was from the Old Testament, Psalm 127.
Less the Lord, keepeth the city. The Watchman, Wacath in Vain. Why would President Kennedy
say that? What does that even mean? Okay. Less the Lord, keepeth the city. And
lest God is protecting the city, the Watchman can go up there all he wants,
but it's not going to, it's not going to do any good. The city is, is going to go.
There is no use of watching or doing anything if you don't have God's protection.
It's a prediction of his death, like the, the things that he did that summer,
the things that he did with, with, with the, the withdrawal plan, the things that he did
for civil rights, the things that he did for Dayton, he wanted to get it out there before he died.
So the, so all the things that, the good things that he did, a lot of them were,
would go down in history and, and, and would, they would know that that's what he wanted to do.
How did that? That's Psalm 127. You can look it up. You can read it. And you can also
find out that what I'm saying is true. I probably have put a citation. I put that in,
at the end, into the storm, by the way. It's at the very, very end.
Because I thought it was such a weird thing for him to do. And then it finally, he got to me.
I figured that out, what it was. And he was before, he was assassinated right before he got a chance
to read that Psalm. And so the watchman did watch in vain for John Kennedy.
So that's going to be the title of volume seven.
What was the speech? What did you make of the speech that he gave on secret societies?
When is this? Can you, can you, can you search this one real quick? It's, it's, it's pretty easy
to find. Just type in a Kennedy speech on secret societies. For far greater public information.
Okay, let it roll for a second. To the need for far greater official secrecy.
Here we go. The very word secrecy is repugnant in a free and open society. Yeah. And we are, as a
people, inherently and historically opposed to secret societies. Yeah. But that's all he's saying
is, is that since the rise of the national security state, we have all this secrecy. Nobody
knows what's going on anymore. We are not a secret society. We're not supposed to be. But
that's what we're turning into. Right. That's what he's saying. Right. It's real simple.
It's not like, but that's what we are now. It's literally what it's what we've become. But it's,
it's not like these come, you need to come closer. It's not like these guys that are like,
you know, doing seances and, and all that kind of stuff at all. This is just what happened to us
once, you know, we had to keep all these secrets. Right. And, and it's, and the press has a hard
time because they don't know who to trust, right? Right. So that's why he said, you got a difficult
job. We have all these secrets all the time. It's crazy though, that that's where, where we've come
to today. He wasn't, gosh, it's even worse today than it was back then. You made the great point
that we wouldn't be sitting here today if it wasn't for Kennedy when it comes to the nuclear arms race
and us wanting to bomb everybody off the face of the earth. But when it comes to this stuff,
it's clearly gone off the rails to, you know, where we are today compared to back then and where
we're going to, where are we headed? Because democratic society is based upon free, free access
to everything our leaders are doing. That's the way that was the, what the, our founding fathers
expected it to be. And they would turn in their graves if they could find out what happened, you
know, to, to, how do you think, what's your opinion on how did this get so out of control
with the media being so corrupted by government? Well, that's another part of the same story.
First of all, it's just the problem of secrecy itself. Right. And, you know, there's a famous
quote, you know, who will guard the guardians? And, and the answer in the CIA is the office
of security because nobody can investigate them, you know. And so when, when, you know, secrets
are above any, anybody else, then, then you, you don't have a democracy. That's, that's for sure.
And that's, that's the problem. And so if you actually decide that you want to manipulate public
opinion, it's easy to do. All you got to do is put a few of your stringers inside of the,
you know, the media. So it's easy. And, and, and there's actually a long
string of, of books and things that are done on this whole practice of actually using
plants, CIA plants inside the media. Right. Right. And it's, what are the names of those books?
Do you know, I'll top your head names, any of those books?
Yeah, there's no. Okay.
But I mean, it's, it's, there, there are many books on, on that. And what you want to do is,
so much books as you just need to go on to, you know, Google and start Googling.
That's another thing. Google, Google is completely compromised.
It is, but you can still find all these, you know, allegations of what, what's going on.
Mm. There's lots of articles, lots of, you know, books and not just books, but
what do you call them? Things that, pamphlets and things like that that, and, and, and other,
maybe they're not even articles, maybe they're podcasts or maybe they're,
you know, speeches and things that talk about this all the time.
What do you think about, do you ever, do you ever have this conversation with Oliver Stone?
Because I know he's had to deal with a lot of backlash. I know he's had to deal with
censorship. He's had to deal with defamatory people trying to smear him and discredit him,
saying that he's anti-American conspiracy theorist. You ever had that conversation with him?
No, no, I actually, when he, he wants something where somebody who's been out of the field has
experience, he'll call on me and ask me for some help. But we don't, we don't correspond a lot.
He's, he's, he's got, he's going down another path and he's not really doing a whole lot on
the Cold War anymore, although there are some, some things he's done. Recently I've seen one
or two things on television about it, but no, I don't, I don't have a, basically, I get asked
for information. Right. And I, and I, what was your role on that, that latest film, JFK Revisited?
Oh, there were two different versions of it. I was used, actually I was interviewed twice. They,
they came to Washington and did their interviews for it. And then after they went back to California,
he flew me out there to, to do some more, some more takes on it. And so, I mean, that's,
and I told him what I, what I knew. Is there any particular question you have on,
on what we talked about? It's, it was, it was New Orleans, all these things we've talked about
today, all these, all these things. And, and this is something that, that still Stone likes to talk
about. It's, it's big, big, big Jim Garrison. I was very nostalgic about that, still to this day.
And he didn't, it helped his, his film and my book helped open the door, but he never walked
through it. For years and years, I sent him a lot of my books and he wasn't interested in that. He
was JFK'd out. Who was? Stone. Yeah. He had other movies he wanted to make and do other things.
And, and he did. And he's, he's a, he wanted to show that he's not a, you know,
he has breadth and he does. And, but he'll tell you a lot of things about Russia that he, he likes.
Yeah. Yeah. He did those Putin interviews where he interviewed Putin.
Yeah. And unfortunately, some of that doesn't look so good right, right now with the Ukraine, but.
Well, John, thank you so much for your time and explaining all this to me is very, very enlightening.
Well, I appreciate the opportunity to come here, to come out of my closet and talk publicly.
It's an honor to have you. Tell people that are listening or watching where they can find your
books. Do you have a website? How can people get in touch with you? Sure. JMN, JFK. Actually,
it's the other way around. JFKJMN, that's John Fitzgerald Kennedy, John Michael Lumen.com.
JFKJMN.com. And all your books are on Amazon as well.
Oh yes. All the books are on Amazon. Cool. I'll make sure I like all that below.
Thanks again, John. You're welcome. Thank you.
