This episode has been heavily censored due to some of the unsettling topics discussed.
I know you guys can handle it, but YouTube cannot.
If you want it uncensored and ad-free, it's on Patreon.
Please hammer that subscribe button below and enjoy the show.
Hallelujah, Neil.
Let's do this thing.
Nostocatformit.
Nice to meet you finally.
Dude, nice to meet you too.
You got an amazing YouTube channel.
Thank you.
How did you get into all of this ancient religious stuff and ancient texts and linguists
and this whole world?
It's actually a funny, well, not funny.
It's not funny.
It's an odd story how I got into it because I didn't do it the academic route.
I didn't get a PhD.
I went to prison and became a reader in there.
And yeah, I became a full-blown Christian at first.
I read the Bible cover to cover and joined the church when I got out, all that stuff.
But even when I was in there, I was into reading the Quran, the Vedas,
whatever texts I can get my hands on at the library that was in the prison.
It was an ancient mythology.
I was reading it.
Wow.
And actually, it's funny because my mom was sending me books when I was in there.
She was trying to find psychology self-help stuff.
She was trying to fix me or whatever.
And one of the books she sent me was Jordan Peterson's Naps of Meaning.
And I turned 21 in prison, 34 now.
This was a while ago.
And so I was not educated trying to read Jordan Peterson.
It was all gibberish.
I had no idea what any of this stuff meant.
It was all, it's like an academic book.
Right.
Like, I had no business reading that book.
I had no idea what I needed it means.
But it still was fascinating.
I'm trying to make sense of it.
And it was like, this is interesting stuff.
So I don't know, Jordan Peterson planted a lot of seeds in my head
when I was young about ancient religions and all that kind of stuff.
When I got out, I became a Christian.
Full-blown fundamentalist Christian for a while.
But I always had that heretic spirit.
So I was always trying to read extra the apocrypha text.
What did those say?
You know, the pastor would be like, be careful reading those.
You know, that's not part of the 66 books of the King James.
It shouldn't be read, whatever.
Are you still religious?
No, not at all.
Okay.
No, not even close.
But I studied my way out of Christianity.
You studied your way out of Christianity.
That's the best way to put it.
I read about the ancients, the ancients like Calces,
his arguments against Christianity, porphyry,
who the Neoplatonists were, all these different,
what was going on in the second, third century, all that stuff,
just became fascinated by it and just educated myself.
And then when I started my channel three years ago,
my main goal was to just get academics on my show, interview them,
ask them questions, whatever their expertise was,
whatever book they wrote.
I'll read the book, get them on, ask them a bunch of questions about it.
Bart Ehrman came on a couple of times.
What is, to you, what is the biggest, most blatant misconception of Christianity?
Or modern?
That people don't know?
Yes.
Yes.
So a lot, okay, this is a big one.
The manuscript traditions.
So a lot of people don't know that Mark is the oldest gospel.
People think it's Matthew because in the opening of the Bible,
Matthew is the first gospel that Mark is the oldest.
A lot of people don't know, most of the gospels are
dated to, they'll say first century, but it's probably late first to the second century
where the gospel starts showing up in the sources.
But this is a crazy thing.
In Mark, which is the oldest gospel, there's no mention of Joseph as Jesus' father.
Before that, Paul was the oldest text.
Paul never mentions Joseph.
So the first time Joseph gets mentioned in any of the sources is in Matthew's gospel,
which is like 85 to 95 AD.
But even worse than that, the scene in Mark where Jesus returns from the dead and shows
the disciples that he's risen, that's not in the oldest manuscripts.
In the oldest manuscripts, the ones that are dated to the second, third, and fourth century,
he doesn't come back.
It literally ends tragically with the women weeping at the tomb.
And the angels tell the women that he's risen, but they don't ever see him.
They don't ever, he doesn't have to come back.
Then in the manuscript tradition, after the fifth century is when you start seeing an extra
21 verses get added to the Bible about Jesus coming back and saying, hey, look, I'm risen.
No way.
And it's probably, it probably has to do with Celsus and porphyry.
These early, they call them pagans, they're not really pagans.
They're like Platonist writers who are very critical of Christianity.
One of the things Celsus says, this is a book from the second century
against the Christians where he even says, how do you even know he rose?
All you're going off is just two women that said they met an angel?
What?
And you think this is the Son of God?
I'm not believing this.
So, and we know that this was a big deal to the Christians because Irenaeus,
about a couple of decades later, had to write a whole book addressing Celsus.
It's called Against Celsus.
So, this, he was like, Celsus was like going after these Christians and he was whooping
their, I believe that part out.
Wow.
And like, Phil Sot, like debating wise, he was, he was beating them up pretty bad.
Right.
Which makes me think that's why they added those 21 verses and said, wait, wait a minute.
No, he did come back and here's what actually happened.
But if you can, and you can fact check me whoever's watching this,
Mark's, the last chapter of Mark, the last 21 verses in that, in that last chapter,
do not show up in any of the manuscripts before the fifth century.
The last, the last part of, but did you say Mark was the first one to write about it?
Mark's the first gospel.
Mark's the first gospel.
Mark's the first gospel.
And none of the manuscripts before that.
Yes.
Can you say that again?
Okay.
So, Mark's being the first gospel.
Right.
Has the, we have manuscripts of Mark, right?
So the first actual gospel, first actual Bible, church Bible,
where it has the Old Testament plus the New Testament is in the fourth century in 325 AD.
Okay.
Before that, it was all individual manuscripts.
So you have Mark floating around by itself, Matthew floating around by itself.
Okay, got it.
And some people would put together their own little,
like a guy named Marcian put together a New Testament where it was seven pistols of Paul
plus Luke and maybe acts, I think, but I can't remember.
But Mark, the gospel, the gospel of Mark that was in circulation before the fifth century
only had those up till the last 21 verses.
So if that's Mark right there, yeah, if you go to,
if you go to the last chapter.
We just lost, we just lost Neil's audio.
Yeah, I meant to unmute my mic, I was on his.
Okay, let's try that part out.
This one goes all the way down to the 16.
Does it go any further than that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
So if you go down, this is the last, this is Mark 16.
Yeah.
So if you go down, if you go all the way down to the bottom,
where it says, keep going.
All right, go up, go up, go up.
So afterward, he appeared to the 11 themselves
as they were reclining at the table and he rebuked that.
That's not in the oldest manuscripts.
That's added.
That's added.
All of that stuff.
And this is consensus.
Any Bible scholar will agree with me on this.
This is not some wild.
Is there a way to access online the original?
Yes, there are, there are.
How can we find the original?
Bart Ehrman is a textual critic.
Dr. Bart Ehrman.
Bart Ehrman.
Yeah.
And he has like the different manuscript traditions
and the translations of them, what they say,
what the variations are.
And he, and you could just like look up,
like he'll point out that those last,
so the last verse is 19 or 20, actually.
If you, yeah, it's all the way up until
when you start seeing Jesus appears to Mary Magdalene.
That's the last verse of the oldest manuscripts.
And now, it says it right there.
Some of the earliest manuscripts do not include 9 through 20.
No way.
I'm sorry, I said 21 verses.
I'm sorry, it's 11 verses, my bad.
11, okay.
Those last 11 verses.
They don't include 16, 9 through 20.
This is Bible.com that's saying that.
And this is, I'm not, this is not a crazy,
this is not like some war.
So they don't include this one right here.
And now when he rose early on the first day of the week,
he appeared first to Mary Magdalene,
from whom he had cast out.
Seven demons.
Seven demons.
That's, that's all added.
That's added.
And because people are criticizing and saying,
wait a minute, he, how do you know this is even true
if all you're going off is that they went to his tomb
and he wasn't there?
Because that's how it ends.
They go to his tomb and he's not there.
Now, to be fair, in, in the Roman, in the Augustan period,
or the Flavian period, which is the first century.
Right.
There was an ancient trope where if this is a,
this is a, this is a big trope,
where a hero would die, like Hercules or something,
and they would go to his tomb and his body was gone.
And it meant that he rose to the, rose to heaven.
It was an ancient trope.
So that, whoever wrote Mark was basically saying
this happened to Jesus too.
So that, that is a common thing.
If the body's disappeared, it means that, you know,
angels rose him up to the heaven.
But if you're being critical, you would say,
how do you know someone didn't steal the body?
So they end up adding verses.
Right.
That's, that's, that's the earliest gospel.
That's, that's what it is.
That's wild.
Yeah.
How did you, so obviously I just had our mutual friend,
Mr. Hillman on show.
He's incredible, man.
That's my, that's my Greek teacher.
He, he, how did you discover him?
I did, I did a show with, um, Carl Ruck.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
About Eucharist and the Ellesinian mystery and stuff like that.
And he follows, he's a big, he's a big fan of Ruck.
Yeah.
I mean, I think he would, he would call himself a disciple of Ruck.
I think he would say that.
Yeah.
Because he's, he's, throughout his career, he's always followed.
Ruck's been around forever.
How many people do you think there are like Ruck and Amon
that can have read that much Greek?
Not a lot.
I can't imagine.
Yeah.
Unless they're like a professor in classics.
Right, right, right.
They, but people like Amon and, uh, and Ruck,
well, Ruck is a professor in classics.
Right.
But they just do it for the love of it.
They love the ancient Greeks.
Yeah.
They do it because they love it.
They're not, not for a job and translating random texts just to get paid.
Like some academics do that or become a teacher or something.
They love it.
They, they do it for the love of it.
And I respect that a lot.
His biggest thing when I think when we, when I started that podcast with him,
I was like, I was like,
what are you most interested in out of everything that you've ever studied?
He goes, I want to know more.
I want to know what Jesus was doing in that park.
Yeah.
That's one of those things.
He won't let that go.
And that's enough.
It's in Mark too.
That's in Mark too.
Yes.
There's that passage in Mark.
It's a very strange passage.
No one knows what to do with it.
It's, it's, it's right before the day he gets crucified.
He's in, he's in a great, or what is it?
Uh, the Garden of Gethsemane.
And he's, uh, and when Judas pulls up with the, with the,
the people coming to arrest him, he's, he's, it says that a boy runs away.
And the word, the word in Greek is nia, nia niscos.
I think it is.
And it means like, the word literally means like baby boy.
Like that's, that's the, that the word's only used for children.
It's not used for teenagers.
It's not used for males.
It's used for children.
And it says, he ran away and his sin don't fell off.
A sin don is like a, like a, a, a wrapping you wear.
Okay.
And so he runs off naked.
So what, what, what's going on in this passage?
Right.
And, uh, yeah, it's in there.
I think what he, from what I understood from the podcast that we did is he said that Jesus
was at some crazy party drinking snake venom before that.
And then he went there and was using the boy as an antidote for the snake venom, the boy's liquids.
That's, that's what Amun says.
Um, it's, I mean, he has his reasons.
So he has his, what do you think about that?
Well, there is, so the only precedent I would say about that, because my, my things,
I like to look at the texts and what the texts say.
And in Ovid's metamorphosis, there's a pet right before Orpheus gets killed.
Uh, he gets torn apart by the main ads sent by Dionysus.
And the scene before that, he's, he's, he's mourning over the, the loss of his wife, Iridesi.
And, uh, it says in the texts that women are throwing themselves at him.
And he's denying them.
And then it says he, he took up the Thracian rights of plucking the young boy's manhood
before they came of age.
He became like, it says, it says he turned to the love of boys.
Oh.
And he became like a, this is Ovid's metamorphosis, not me.
And who's he talking about again?
He's talking about Orpheus.
Orpheus.
Who's an ancient hero, theologian, like great figure.
Like, um, like it's like, there's actually, if you actually look up the Oxford English
translation of Orpheus, it's gone.
Well, it took it out.
It's kind of, cause I don't even know if I blame them.
Omin was also telling me in the Greek language, there was also no word to distinguish like
heterosexuality versus homosexuality.
Not, not.
And he said, basically, there's no word for gay or homosexual in Greek.
Like they didn't think about it.
They just thought, they just thought of like having men and women was the same.
Yeah.
It's eros, which is love or, yeah.
Bizarre dude.
Agape, love.
There's different words for love.
Yeah.
Eros is that erotic.
That's eros, erotic love.
That's what they do.
So they would use that for men and women or men and men or women and women.
The men, they just didn't think about it.
It just didn't, just didn't matter.
Like it's just more, probably more common than it is today for people to engage in that
type of stuff, you know.
Yeah.
What, so that debate that you had between Omin and there was another guy who he was talking
to who was a Hebrew linguist or something.
Oh yeah, Kip Davis.
Yeah.
Dead Sea Scrolls scholar.
So what are the two points of views between Omin and Kip Davis and what were they sort of
debating about?
They were discussing which came first, the Hebrew Masoretic text of the Old Testament
or the Greek Septuagint, which version came first.
Okay.
The consensus is that the Hebrew was first and the Greek is the translation of that.
There is some scholarship though.
Like Russell Gamerkin is one of my good friends.
I've had him on my channel multiple times where it's not, they don't say that the Greek
came first, but they'll say that the Hebrew probably predates the Greek by no more than a
couple of years.
Like it was, all of it was written in the Hellenistic period.
So all of it's adopting Greek ideas such as Platonism is big and Genesis, for example,
he writes about Genesis, the creation myth, having things that line up with Plato's Timaeus.
A lot of Greek philosophy in this time period was rejecting the Homeric,
what we call Pagan world.
So Plato was not a fan of Homer or Hesiod.
Oh really?
Yeah, they were.
And so Heraclitus, for example, another one of these pre-Socratic philosophers
wrote about how idol worship was a bad idea.
These people are dumb, these people are idiots.
They're worshiping idols.
What are they doing?
Which sounds a lot like what you get in the Old Testament prophets.
He's saying these people don't understand the meaning of God.
They talk to a stone idol of the way they would talk to a doorpost, that's what he says.
And so that mentality comes, it's not just from, a lot of people think it's just from like the Jews
talking about the Greeks, but in the Greek world that same mentality is already there.
So Grussel Grimerkin points out like the pre-Socratics invented monism,
which is there's one God who created everything.
And underneath this one God is all these daemons.
And daemons also are called angels, which are messengers.
So that's probably where you get this dichotomy between angels and demons.
A daemon is just a God, but an angel or an angelos is a messenger.
Hermes is called the Angulos, a messenger.
So what it looks like is these are all daemons, but the ones that are loyal to the one,
the monad or the one or the good God or the crater,
demiurge, whatever you want to call it, those are, if they're loyal to him,
they're going to be his messenger.
So they're going to be angels.
If they're not, they're just daemons on their own.
So they come demons.
So you can see right through the Greek sources,
you can see that angels and demons is already something that's already going on.
So they're not necessarily bad.
They're just not loyal to the main creator.
They're just, it's distinguishing them from the angels that are loyal.
Yeah. And there's even early Christian nominations that would say like Zeus and Athena and Aphrodite,
they're all daemons that Jesus came to save everybody from.
Like that's one of the early, one of these early Christian groups called the Perete.
The Perete believed, they believed in all the Greek mythology world was all legit and real
and they're Christians.
They're not saying that didn't exist,
but they just think that those daemons are evil.
And this actually persists even in the, even well beyond the Nicene Creed,
Pope Gregory writes a letter and this is in the sixth century,
I think fifth or sixth century, Pope Gregory the great,
one of the great popes that everybody, Orthodox or Catholic,
they're all venerating this guy.
And he writes a letter to the bishop in London.
He says, he basically says like their gods are demons.
Like he's basically saying they're worshiping demons.
Like even though they're just like, it's Odin and Freyja,
whatever those gods are, I'm just naming off names from gods from that,
maybe not Odin and Freyja,
whoever is being worshiped in Britain in that time.
But he tells him, he tells him, he says,
listen, they're going to do what they're going to do.
Don't destroy their temples.
Don't destroy the pagan temples.
Here's what you got to do.
He says, take holy water or he says,
first remove the idol out.
That's the demon.
Take the idol out, replace it with a cross
and then sprinkle holy water in the temple
and convert it into a church.
So they're doctrine, they're way they're growing the church
is by repurposing ancient pagan sites into churches.
This happened, there's thousands of examples of this
all over Europe, North Africa, Mediterranean,
where they ancient pagan temples get reconverted into churches.
So essentially what Amun and Kip, right?
Disagreeing about.
They were disagreeing about was,
Amun was saying, yeah, here's the video right here.
If you, I don't know, you can find it on your channel, on your playlist.
Yeah, yeah, it's on my playlist.
The Septuagint, which is Greek, Amun was arguing
that the Hebrew, Hebrew came out of Greek
or Hebrew came after Greek, right?
Because the Greek language is like 250,000 words
and Hebrew is only 8,000 words.
And then you guys were arguing about certain phrases,
I guess, or certain terms.
And he was showing how there was like one word for fear of God.
Theosabase.
In Greek, Theosabase, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then in Hebrew, they turned it into like two or three.
Yeah, so Amun was making good points
and he was arguing like, look, in the Greek language,
there's thousands of words, there's even five words for one thing.
Like there's so many ways you can express yourself in Greek.
And then in Hebrew, it's a very,
very shorter list of words and a lot less vocabulary.
Well, here's the interesting thing.
If you can have fear of God, whatever that idea embodied in one word.
Right, exactly.
And in Hebrew, it takes break down into what it means.
Yeah, still, Greek has 250,000 words
and Hebrew only has 8,000 words.
That's insane.
And he was saying like, look,
it actually doesn't make sense for someone in Greek
to take the word, to take these three words, fear of God,
and then add a bunch of them into this one word Theosabase.
It would make sense that they would translate it as it is,
because you can actually write out like phobia, phobis is the word for fear.
Test Theos, you could say that in Greek.
So it would make sense if you're translating it,
you would just say fear of God.
But he's saying they're using a technical term, this word Theosabase,
which is a technical Dainese and cultic term.
Why would they pick that word to translate these three?
So he's making good points.
And you know, Kip was just like, dude,
I don't even know what you're talking about.
The scholarship says this, the consensus says this.
He's just throwing down consensus, the consensus, the consensus.
And look, I'm not a big fan of people who just
waive the consensus to disagree with someone's argument.
Like either their argument's good or it's not.
You should look at the argument, not just say,
the consensus says this, so you're wrong.
It's like, if that was the case, we would never,
there would never be any changes in anything
because the consensus would just stay the same.
The consensus is always changing.
Should always be, so that I don't agree with,
but I will say this, I am not a linguist.
I don't know, I'm not an expert Hebrew or Greek.
So I couldn't say, I can't sit there and judge
who's right between them.
Right.
But what I can do is I can look at the history and say, look,
we can test this.
There is a way to test this.
And so whether or not the Hebrew or Greek came first,
I don't really care.
I want to know is how old can we date
the Masoretic Hebrew Old Testament?
When does it start showing up in the sources?
People think that, people think that Moses wrote the Torah
in like the Bronze Age.
Some people say like 1300 BC, Moses started writing the Torah
and it's been passed down since then.
And then new books are added or whatever.
That's nonsense, nonsense.
In fact, when Israel got conquered by the Assyrians
by Nebuchadnezzar in 597 BCE,
most of the Jews were brought to Babylon.
Everyone knows this story, it's famous.
The fall of the first temple, right?
But what we found out later is that a lot of Jews
went back into Egypt and it was like an Exodus backwards.
And they built, they settled in this city called Elephantine.
So Elephantine is a city of an ancient Jewish city in Egypt
that dates, we have texts from that period from archaeology.
We dug up papyri, thousands of papyri.
So we know what they believed in.
We know what their ideas were.
There is no Moses.
There is no Noah.
There's no David.
There's no mention of Abraham, nothing.
And they're worshiping multiple gods.
So wait a minute.
If the Torah already existed before Nebuchadnezzar in 597 BCE,
wouldn't these Jews in Elephantine have Moses and Abraham
and Noah in these texts?
They'd have zero, we have thousands of texts from this place.
Not one mention of Abraham, not one mention of Moses.
How does that make sense?
Where did it come from then?
Well, like Amon points out, like I've been pointing out,
like Russell Gomerkin pointing out, these texts are written way later.
Yeah.
And they're just backdating themselves, which is common.
This happens all the time.
It happens in Greek sources, the sibling oracles.
They backdate themselves.
They'll say, this is a text from 10,000 years ago.
Like this happens all the time.
This is not some random thing.
And that's Elephantine.
That's where they're settled.
And they dug up thousands of papyri.
And inscriptions.
And they have Yahweh.
They call him Yahoo.
It's a different spelling of the way Yahweh, but he's there.
So it is the Jews and they're writing an Aramaic.
And sorry, remind me again, what year this is?
They fled Israel in 597 BCE.
597 BCE.
So between 597 and 410.
That's a long time.
200 years, right?
Yeah.
Between, we have texts that are dating between 597 and 410
from that city dating texts from that period.
And none of them mentioned Abraham, Moses, or Noah.
And when were those, when were Moses and Noah supposed to have lived?
Way before that.
Way before that.
Way, like we're talking like flex 3000.
2000 years before that.
2000 years before that.
Moses would be 1000, almost a thousand years, 800 years before that.
And when did the very first writings of Noah and these guys, the first?
Okay, this is a great question.
We can't say when's the first time it was ever written down.
We can't say if there's anybody who ever mentions Moses,
who's the first one to do it outside of the text that's claiming,
you know, that you can't date the text with the text, right?
Right.
You got to use an outside text.
Who cites this text?
Who's mentioning this text?
You want to know the first time it's ever mentioned?
When?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Bubz.
Bubz Naturals is a badass company that has collagen, peptides,
it has coffee creamer, it has coffee, electrolytes.
And they are amazing because they are a tribute company to a Navy SEAL and former CIA contractor,
Glenn Bubz Doherty, who died defending American freedom in Benghazi, Libya.
Again, there is obviously no shortage of collagen products available on the internet,
but I support Bubz because it is not only a superior product,
but they support American veterans by donating 10% of all their proceeds to veteran organizations
and 100% of their proceeds on Veterans Day.
Bubz collagen peptide packets are easy to use as a daily supplement.
I keep them in my truck and I drink them on the way to the gym.
It's flavorless, easy to mix nature, it makes it easy to mix into anything.
I prefer mixing it in coffee.
You may not know, but after the age of 25,
your natural production of collagen starts to fade, which can severely impact your skin.
And an interesting thing about collagen is the more you supplement with it,
the more your natural production increases.
Since I started using it a few months ago,
I've already noticed a huge improvement in my joint connective tissues,
my skin elasticity, and the overall quality of my hair, believe it or not.
You can support Bubz and this podcast by visiting BubzNaturals.com
and using the code DJP at checkout for 20% off your first order.
Again, that's BubzNaturals.com and use the promo code DJP at checkout for 20% off.
It's linked below. Now back to the show.
Hecateus of Abdera in around three, I want to say 320 BC.
First time Moses has ever mentioned.
He writes a text about Abraham.
He writes texts about Moses and Noah.
It's Hecateus of Abdera, that's his name.
A guy named Borosis.
A guy named Manito.
They're all contemporaries with each other.
Late fourth century BC, early third century BC,
you start hearing about Moses, Abraham, and Noah.
Before that, nobody mentions them.
For some reason, in Bible scholarship land, they don't talk about this.
They know this is true, they won't deny it.
They can't argue against it.
But they'll say, eh, there's probably an oral tradition, man, calm down.
And I'll say, well, what about elephantine?
There are all these texts there from 200-year period.
There was probably a fringe sect.
That's what they'll say.
When was the Dead Sea Scrolls conventionally,
what was the conventional idea when they were written?
First century BC.
First century BC.
Yeah, so that's way later.
Way later.
You can't use that, yeah.
But those are all in Hebrew?
No, there's Greek ones.
There's some in Greek too.
There's some in Greek.
And I believe Amun was claiming that some of the Dead Sea Scrolls came from Greek.
Yeah, so there's some, and I can't really talk too much about this.
I don't know too much, but I've heard for that it looks like the Dead Sea Scrolls,
some of them were translating from the Greek side.
So the ones that we found, and I don't, I'm not gonna die on this hill, I could be wrong.
Right, right.
But there are people who say that some of the, some of the Dead Sea Scrolls looks like it comes,
it's coming from the Greek tradition.
So, and by the way, in one of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
because in the Greek Septuagint Yaho, which is the Greek way to spell Yahweh,
there is no Yaho in the Septuagint.
But in the Greek manuscripts from Dead Sea Scrolls, the Yaho is in there.
And people-
When did the Septuagint come about?
Well, the oldest ones we have is from 325 AD.
325.
So anything could have changed between 300, well they say it's like 270 BC
when the Septuagint got produced or translated or whatever.
Right.
Now I'm fine with, if the academics are, if the experts are saying it's a translation,
I don't care, fine.
All I'm saying is there's no, it could be, it's fine, it's a translation all day, I don't care.
All I care about is when was it written?
And to me, there's no evidence that any of the Hebrew or the Greek
shows up before the 4th century BC.
Wow.
And that word Yaho in Greek shows up in the oldest manuscripts from the Dead Sea region.
But in the Church Bible, the Old Testament in Greek, the Septuagint, the Codex Sinaiticus,
the Codex Vaticanus, and the Codex Alexandricus, those three Church Bibles have no,
they changed the name Yaho to Curios, which means Lord in Greek.
So the Lord, the Lord, the Lord, that's why the Bible always says the Lord instead of Yahweh.
But in the oldest manuscripts, Yaho is present.
We have a Deuteronomy manuscript from Dead Sea,
and it says it's got the three letters Iota, Alpha, Omega, Yaho.
And by the way, I think I know why they changed it,
because the Yaho is actually an old name for Dionysus.
Really?
Yes.
Dionysus has the same name as Yahweh.
And get this, Plutarch, who wrote in the second century,
says that he has a whole text called,
which God is worshiped by the Jews?
And he says it's Dionysus.
Dionysus.
He said it's some Eastern form of Dionysus, because Dionysus wasn't just a wine God.
That's like an attribute attributed to him.
And then when the Romans adopted Dionysus, the Roman version of Dionysus,
he becomes this wine party God.
But if you go back, the oldest forms of Dionysus you could find,
he's way more than that.
He's a God of life.
He's a God of the growing of the crops.
He's a God of Baachic, it's called Baachic mania,
but it's like divine inspiration.
Wasn't he the son of Zeus?
He's the son of Zeus.
He's the heir of heaven.
He was born from the marriage between Persephone,
who's the queen of the underworld, and Zeus.
And in that text, he's the heir to heaven.
No other son of God, not Hercules, not Apollo.
Only Dionysus is called the heir to heaven.
That's it.
Only one time.
It's only Dionysus.
And he was Yahweh.
According to Plutarch, because they both have,
because yeah, in the oldest texts of Dionysus,
there are sources of that.
The Chaldean overcloses one.
His name is Yaho in Greek,
which is the same way you spell Yahweh in Greek.
They have the same exact name.
And don't you, you have a video all about
how Yahweh is the same thing as Satan?
Yeah.
So early Christians, early Christians come along,
and Marcian was one of these early Christians.
Also the Sethians, who else?
There was, there's Valentinians, I think.
There's always different groups of Christians blowing up.
The Canites are one of them.
Ophites, and they had this idea
that the God of the Old Testament
is actually the evil God called Yelda Boeth.
And so they were like, this God is not our true God.
He's an imposter.
And they had the whole text called Apocryphon John,
where Jesus tells John, look, Yelda Boeth
thinks he's the one who created this world.
He's wrong.
He wants to enslave people and put them under these harsh laws.
But really, I'm the son of a different God called Sophia,
which means wisdom.
And this is the real creator.
That's what it says.
That's what the text says.
So how does it tie Yahweh to Satan?
Because Yahweh is that Yelda Boeth character.
Oh, yeah.
They call it Yelda Boeth,
but they're talking about the God of the Old Testament.
And then Yah'o is one of his names.
One of the names Yelda Boeth is inscribed with.
Did Jesus say Lord or Jehovah Yahweh when he spoke to Satan?
I don't know if this is...
He says Lord.
They always use Kyrios in Greek.
But there is a passage in John where he says,
he's talking to the Pharisees, and he says,
he says, you are a son of the devil.
He says it's in the Greek.
He says, you are the son of the devil.
And I can't remember what passage it is, but yeah, it's in John.
So some people interpret that and say,
look, there's an example of Jesus calling out the Pharisees
and saying they're actually worshiping the wrong deity.
So that's one way to interpret John.
Some people say, eh, I don't know about that interpretation.
Right.
But it's there.
That text does say that.
So is the academic consensus that the Greek came after the Hebrew?
Is that...
No.
No.
Oh, after the Hebrew.
Yes.
Yes.
So okay.
The academic consensus is fully with the Septuagint
translates the Masoretic.
The Septuagint.
Septuagint is Greek, Masoretic is Hebrew.
That's the consensus.
But that just doesn't seem likely.
But Amon is the one who's saying,
no, I think these Greek technical terms, he says that he thinks,
well, this is actually a good point.
Adamus is one of the names of the primordial beings
in the Samoan Thracian Mysteries.
He thinks Adam's coming from Adamus, which could be true.
Also, Ewa, the name for Eve in Greek, is a Bacchic chant.
And her name is also in Greek is called Zoe, which means life.
And that's...
So he's basically saying this split between Adam and Eve,
because they don't have to split from each other.
This looks like to be some sort of early ancient Greek mystery religion
right of taking Adamus, which means indestructible life,
and splitting them into Adamus and life, Zoe.
So everything Amon is saying, it lines up.
Like it's plausible.
He's not saying some off the wall, just that me,
without having the expertise to be like,
to say he's right or wrong, I just don't have that.
But I'm listening to him and I think he makes a lot of sense
that he should be, it should be out there.
I wonder how far we are, how far off we are
from getting like chat GPT to be able to translate some of this ancient text.
Or how I mean, I don't know.
Chat GPT translates text.
It can translate ancient Greek.
I do it all the time.
Really?
I do it all the time.
I use all the time.
You can, you can even test it.
You can even send it.
You could take a passage from a certain story or a playwright,
like Euripides Bacchai, take a little passage out,
throw it in chat GPT-4.
It'll say, this is from Euripides Bacchai.
And this is what it means.
So it knows how to translate.
Yeah, because there were some people that were pushing back on Amon
when he was talking about, when Jesus was in the park,
he said, I am not a laystace.
Laystace.
And people are saying that laystace isn't what he claims it is.
Well, it can be.
So Amon is saying, if you go, there's a website called Perseus Tufts.
It's built by a friend of mine, Gregory Crane Professor
at Perseus Tufts University.
Our Tufts University.
And the website is called Perseus Tufts.
And it's the most amazing tool that we have.
It allows people like me to become a scholar from my house.
But this is it right here.
You can look up, you can type in any Greek word you want
on that top right.
And if you type in any, you have to use the Greek though.
So you won't be able to.
You won't be able to, yeah.
I don't have a Greek keyboard at the time.
You have to change your keyboard to Greek.
Or you have to copy and paste it.
You can do either or.
Once you get used to doing it, it's very easy to do.
But you can, if you type in the word, I don't know.
Lace days.
Lace days.
Yeah, type in lace days.
It'll show all the times that word's been used
in the Greek language forever.
It's far better.
It'll say 500 BC.
Heraclitus said this when he said lace days.
This is what he meant by it.
It's all in there.
So if you want to look up lace, it's L-E-H-S-T-E-S in Greek.
Go to the library.
Yeah, I don't know how to do it.
Type in Mark in Greek.
Mark's Gospel in Greek.
Mark's Gospel in Greek.
Let's see what we got.
Here we go.
Okay, so this is supposed to be lace days.
This word right here.
Yeah.
Now go to Perseus.
So we're looking at, for people that are watching this,
we're looking at the word.
Yeah.
This is at the Greek version of Mark
that we have pulled up in one tab.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We found the actual quote from Jesus.
Now we're pasting the word he used lace days.
Lace days.
Into this translator.
All right, so let's see what we got.
Oh, like, I'm sorry.
Go to all search options.
Go to all search.
Click on all search options.
Right, right there.
Oh, yeah, gotcha.
All search options.
All right, now try it right there.
Oh, okay.
Now if this doesn't get into word, yeah, right there.
Get into, okay, pasticles.
Try that.
There we go.
Okay.
Now click on where it says middle Liddell.
Middle Liddell.
It's using the middle Liddell.
No, go to the one above that.
Right there.
That one there.
All right.
Oh, wait.
Okay, good.
No, LSJ.
I'm sorry.
Use it.
Where it says LSJ.
LSJ.
Right there.
Click on that one.
Okay.
LSJ.
All right.
See, robber pirate.
Where does it say that?
Right on the bottom.
Robber pirate.
Bucking near.
Oh, yeah.
See, okay.
So what you're looking at.
Let me explain to you.
Let me explain to you what you're looking at.
So the blue text.
Yes.
Stay, keep going down.
Blow it up.
Yeah, that's the end of it.
All right, that's fine.
The blue text are sources.
So that's Cyrene.
That's Plutarch.
That's Plato.
Herodotus.
Aristophanes.
Those are all different sources that use that word leistes.
Okay.
And it's saying how they're using it.
So the first source is saying he uses it for pirate.
The second one says he uses it for buccaneer.
And then this one says piracies.
Uh-huh.
So it's, every time it's been used, it's used for pirate or buccaneer.
Piracy.
Right.
So he's not, he's right.
Bucking near.
Robert.
So whoever said he's wrong is just, is objectively wrong.
Because it only, it's only used for pirates.
But what would, so he was saying when he was caught in the park, I'm not a pirate?
Yeah.
He's, so, and so if you look up like, so that word being used and so.
Is that what we think now as a pirate?
Well, in the ancient Greek world, buccaneers and pirates,
especially the Thracian ones.
Human traffickers.
Where you were doing human trafficking.
Oh, so he was right.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
That's what they were known for.
Like, um, the Thracian pirates were known for that.
We had to do, it would steal people and sell them to the, to the Scythians for slaves.
We just had to do so much freaking work to figure that out.
That's, that's what scholars do.
That's crazy dude.
We did some scholarship right there.
Oh my lord.
But that's how you, that's how you look up at homologies of words and went, well,
that's how you do it.
I mean, that's, that's all Ahmone's doing.
He's saying, look, he's being called this title.
He's got a kid running away from him.
It's like, he, he's just putting two and two together and saying,
it looks like something's going on here.
And like, look, people might not be,
think that's a good interpretation, whatever.
But he's, he's, it's, it's, it's legit.
Right.
Yes.
It's still, it's possible, you know.
It's, it's, it's entirely possible.
Yeah.
What, who, what do you think Jesus was?
What do you think he, who was Jesus for real?
I think he was a mystic.
I think he was well educated.
I think he knew about the mystery religions of the time period.
I think he was also devoutly Jewish.
And I think at that time, Judy is, it wasn't Judaism, what we would say today,
that's rabbinic Judaism comes after 70 AD.
So when Jesus was around, it was a whole different type of religious
atmosphere going on in that period.
And there was a lot of magician stuff going on.
A lot of, like, you know, Simon Magus, the title Magus, those were,
those are like people who perform miracles.
And Jesus was one of those characters.
So Jesus was, you know, the title Magus or Magi, these were people who around,
by the way, he's the Magi, the ones finding the baby Jesus, right?
A lot of the early Christians in the sources had that title,
like Marcus Magus was an early Christian, Simon Magus was an early Christian.
These Magi or Magus characters were in the business of performing miracles
and doing mystery, rites, initiations, baptisms, Eucharists,
magic, mystic ceremonies, basically.
And Jesus was one of these characters performing these magic rites.
So was he just doing drugs?
Drugs are involved. Psychedelics are involved.
And look, let's go to the sources, right?
Epiphanius talks about an early Christian sect that he says descended from the Nicolations.
Nicolations are mentioned in Revelation.
So we're talking first century.
And they split off into a bunch of different groups.
There's the Barbarites, the Zacchaeans, the Phibianites, the Socrates,
Codians, Barbellites, Secundians, there's more.
I just wanted to give a whole handful, there's a whole bunch of them.
And these are all branching off of this Nicolation sect.
According to Epiphanius, this is what he says.
I'm just repeating what the sources say.
It's not like a theory that I have.
This is just what the sources say.
According to them, they had their own text.
It was a Gospel of Mary.
Now, people might say, I've read the Gospel of Mary.
It's not this one.
There's a different Gospel of Mary.
It's called the Questions Concerning Mary or something.
That's how Epiphanius refers to it.
But they call it a Gospel.
And even Epiphanius says they call it a Gospel.
And it's a different Gospel, a very different Gospel.
And in this text, the Aldeboeth is there.
He's the God of the, he's the Hebrew God, right?
Jesus is the son of a different God called Barbello.
Barbello.
And Barbello is associated with Sophia.
They call it the Mother Father.
It's like a figure.
It's like this, it's like this very fascinating deity
that is like the creator of all things, wisdom incarnate,
descending from the highest ions of the monad, right?
This is what they say in the text.
But there's an eighth heaven and Jesus and Barbello are
from, they rule that heaven.
We're on the below it.
We're in the seventh heaven where heaven and earth is.
And the Aldeboeth rules this.
I'm just laying out what their ideas are.
But what they did, according to this Gospel,
Jesus takes Mary up on a mountain.
Had sex with her.
Mary Magdalene.
Mary Magdalene.
By the way, Mark says the one he, if you put it next to Mark,
Mark, we just read it.
Mark says, Mary Magdalene, the one whom Jesus took seven demons out of.
Mark said that.
Exercise.
Mark's Gospel says, we just read that.
Yeah.
Mary Magdalene, the one who he exercised seven demons out of.
What is that?
Whoa.
But this is what these Barbarites said, that Jesus took her on,
this is in the sources.
Right.
Jesus took her on a mountain.
This is in their gospel.
So it's not just like in rumor.
This was written in a gospel.
Jesus took Mary onto a mountain, had sex with her,
told her to make it to the kingdom of heaven.
He has to eat his flesh.
She has to eat his flesh and drink his blood.
And he made her a Eucharist with his load.
Yes.
What the?
God, dude.
And that's what it says.
And by the way, so then.
And so who, Mark wrote that?
We don't know who wrote this.
We don't know who wrote this.
We have no idea.
It's a lost gospel, but it's cited in the sources.
It existed all the way up to the third century.
And then we start losing and it's not mentioned.
It existed all the way up to the third century.
And this was found in a pirate scroll.
No, no, no.
This is just cited by people in the third century.
Epiphanous.
Oh, it's cited.
Yeah. Epiphanous is one of these early saints in the church.
He's talking about this in his text called the Panerion.
Okay.
So then he continues.
He says, that's in their gospel.
But then we know, he says, they perform the craziest rituals
where they take psychedelics, they speak in tongues,
they prophesy the future, and they eat babies.
So this was like, I'm making this up.
That's so crazy.
But if someone's watching this, what is he talking about?
Just look it up.
Panerion by Epiphanous against the Borboreits.
Or actually look up Borboreits on Wikipedia.
Wikipedia even says this.
Borboreits on Wikipedia.
Yeah, Steve.
Borbores.
It's in the Wikipedia page.
This is like well-known scholarship.
All the people that were writing back then, how do we know?
How do we know?
It's hard to determine who was, what their motives were
behind what they were writing.
Or if they had access, an axe to grind against somebody
or an idea or a religion.
Or if it was just like an ancient tabloid,
like the National Enquirer of Antiquity.
Even if this exists among all these other pieces of writing,
how do we know to take that for real?
Or if that an ancient writer could have been full?
That's a good question.
That's your thinking like a scholar right now.
Because a lot of, Bart Ehrman is one of the people who think
that Epiphanous is slandering them.
He thinks none of this happened.
That Epiphanous wants people to not like them.
So he's making up like, oh, they eat babies.
Which could be true.
Or there could be something in the middle.
Well, that's what we say.
It could be somewhat true.
It could, maybe they are doing Eucharist with some stuff.
Just like a deluxe writer.
Maybe they're doing maybe nothing,
but maybe not eating a board of babies.
That sounds like crazy.
That's like what we say about Hillary Clinton today.
Right.
People are slandering people.
And sometimes the truth is halfway in the middle.
That's how I would approach it.
I would take it with a grain of salt
because Epiphanous does not like these people.
You got to remember that.
He's writing about people he does not like.
So you got to take it with a grain of salt.
But then you got to think like, if he was wrong,
somebody might have wrote and said,
hey, Epiphanous is wrong about this.
We don't have anything like that.
Nobody can test that he's what he's saying.
So that's another thing you got to think about.
So, you know, it could be somewhere in the middle.
Right.
That's what I would say.
Now, Mary Magdalene, what is their contention?
Because Amin also said something about her being a prostitute.
Yeah.
Or it's pretty obvious.
And then some people think that they were married.
Right.
There are people who think that they're,
I mean, it's...
What is the contention there?
And what...
The way Mary is presented in all of the Gospels,
not just the ones we have, not just the four main Gospels,
but the extra additional apocryphal Gospels,
there's another Gospel of Mary too,
where Mary is the one who gets all the secret wisdom
that none of the other apostles have.
She's the highest of all of them.
And that's called the Gospel of Mary.
That's the different...
That's the one that we have
that was found in the Nag Hammadi Scrolls in Egypt.
But the way she's presented is like,
she's just always around him.
She's always with Jesus.
She's always...
She's got other girls that are like following her.
So she has her own entourage
and she's following Jesus with his entourage.
It looks like they're together
and they're like both operating some sort of mission,
whatever it is.
Like they're both pimps.
Whatever.
This is what the mystery religions were like
in the first century.
Right.
And especially we look at the Dionysian religions.
And by the way, someone might say,
the Dionysian Christians are opposites.
Actually, John Clappenborg,
mainstream scholar,
one of the great academics of our time,
wrote a whole book called Christ Associations.
And he points out in that book
that the way early Christian churches operated,
they're called Ecclesias,
they were almost following the playbook
of the Dionysian Ecclesias.
They were doing everything the same.
So they're both...
Both groups are doing like,
oh, they bury their dead in the same catacombs together.
They do specific rights at dinner parties,
the way they bring out stuff.
The way...
Like he's basically saying like the evidence shows
that the Dionysian groups
and the Christian groups were operating in the same way,
just worshiping different gods.
Obviously, they're worshiping Christ here,
they're worshiping Dionysians.
So the devotees of Dionysus were similar
in the way they handled themselves
and carried themselves to the way the Christians were.
So this is not like crazy to think
that the mystery religions of the first century
could have looked a lot like what these early Christians,
what Jesus and Mary were doing.
Just in Judea.
Just under...
Just through the Jewish worldview
and their tongue and their Syriac,
whatever language they were...
Syriac was probably the language they were speaking in,
which is like an Aramaic Hebrew...
Is that what Jesus spoke?
Probably Syriac.
Syriac?
Yeah.
It's a form of Aramaic that was popular in Nazareth.
That was like the native tongue of the Nazarenes.
So that's probably what Jesus spoke in.
I think Amon said he spoke Greek.
Amon's just like, die hard.
He just loves Greek.
He's just a Greek.
Well, here's the thing.
Amon's going to say,
show me a text where Jesus is speaking in Syriac.
Okay, you're right.
We don't have that.
We're just basically guessing on...
What was the language of Nazareth?
It was Syriac.
And there was Greek everywhere, though.
So he probably knew something.
Everyone knew Greek.
It was the language...
That's like English today.
If you...
Like you can be here in Florida.
There's places where Spanish is big, right?
But everyone knows a little English.
Yes.
So he had to have known Greek to some extent,
because that was the lingua franca
of that period in the Eastern Roman Empire.
Right.
So yeah, Amon's not wrong.
He did speak Greek.
Yeah.
At least some of it.
At least he had to have.
Especially how educated Jesus was.
I don't buy this idea that he would...
There were just some random fishermen.
And like the...
Even the Talmud says that Jesus was close to the government.
His mother was close to the government.
And there was a trial and everybody was...
It was like the trial took long or something
because he was so close to the government.
And like, if you're going to...
And we're taking the genealogy seriously,
which I really don't think you should.
I think it's made up.
But his genealogy says he's from the Davidic line.
And like, if that's true,
then he's probably somewhat important, right?
Right?
He's probably not just some random poor guy
hanging out with some random fishermen.
So they're probably worried like...
What is the Davidic line?
From King David's line.
Oh.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
So if that's any somewhat true,
then he would be somewhat important, right?
So I mean, who knows if that's true or not.
But what I'm saying is, if you look at...
If we look at the parables that he taught
and the things that he's saying,
he's very well educated in the philosophies of the time period.
He comes off as like a cynic slash Stoic.
That's what he comes off.
So if you read the Stoics of the first century,
by the way, Stoicism came out of cynicism.
Diogenes was the great cynic philosopher.
He invented the school of cynicism.
He lived in the same time as Plato.
They hate each other.
They're arguing each other all the time.
But Diogenes' student was Crades.
And then Crades' student was Zeno.
Zeno invented the school of Stoicism.
So Stoicism comes out of cynicism.
By the time you get to the first century,
the Stoics were huge
and they ended up blending in with the Platonist.
Middle Platonism is Stoicism plus Platonism.
And that was the dominant philosophy of the first century.
And if you look at Jesus' parables
and the way he taught,
he lines up with the Middle Platonist philosophy of the day.
So he obviously was educated, taught Middle Platonism.
You know, it's just, it's so like,
it's such a weird thing to, or such like, to me at least,
it's such a bizarre field to study,
just like these ancient texts
and what was going on in these ancient religions
and all the different translations
and all the people telling these stories
that happened hundreds of years earlier.
Like I was just watching this video this morning
about the library of Alexandria.
And this guy was explaining how the modern idea
of this great library that held all the knowledge
of the world was like, I think it was like 400 BC.
And he was basically-
Alexander?
Yeah, Alexander.
Around 300 BC.
Okay, around 300's when it was at, it's like peak, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But at his point of this video,
he was trying to explain-
They're on them.
Like how shit just gets lost in translation.
And he was like, it was where Alexandria is
in Northern Egypt.
This is the video.
I love him.
I watch every video he puts out.
Yeah.
He's so, he's-
Yeah.
This is a great-
He's a real deal.
By the way, the title is fantastic too.
Pre-modernist, I love him, man.
The boring truth about the library of Alexandria.
He explains in this video-
I'm a huge fan of him.
I hope he sees this.
Yeah.
I want to get him on my channel.
He explains like, where Alexandria was,
those books would not have survived
into that humid environment.
They would have to have to kept
making copies and copies and copies
to keep them up to date
so they wouldn't just disintegrate.
And then he goes,
modern people think the burning
of the library of Alexandria
by either the Christians,
the Muslims, or Julius Caesar, right?
So Julius Caesar apparently did it
around like 50 BC.
Right.
And well, that's 300 years later,
those books would never, most of them,
there's no way they would have all survived
that long anyways.
And he's like, around 50 BC, he's like,
that library wasn't all that important.
There was other libraries,
there was like the Serapium
and these other places and-
Pergamon.
Pergamon had a huge library at that time.
Antioch, Syria, Rome,
major cities all had their own libraries
at that time.
By 50 BC, Alexandria wasn't even,
it didn't matter because everything was already
in these other libraries at that time.
But think about like this.
How different is the world from now
between the time of the Founding Fathers,
300 years ago?
Completely, we don't even,
who knows what they lived like?
Who knows what books they had?
Everything's different now.
The same would go for,
it's probably even worse between 300 BC and 50 BC.
That's the same amount of time period,
almost, maybe a little bit less.
But we're talking roughly the same amount
of time has passed from 300.
We think of the ancient world,
we think of, oh, 300 BC to 200 BC,
everything was probably around the same thing,
but no, it's 100 years have passed.
Everything's different now.
Every 50 years, things are different.
Even 50 years ago,
everything was different than it is today.
So you got to think, by 50 BC,
whatever was happening in the Library of Alexandria
is not what's happening in 300 BC.
It's a different world.
Right.
And another point that he makes
is that the first people to write
about the burning of the Library of Alexandria
was 200 AD.
Yeah.
Writing about something that happened,
apparently in 50 BC.
Right.
So.
That's another problem in sources.
Do they know?
Yeah.
Well, here's another.
So that's, this is what I would say about that.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
The older I get, the more I want to invest in my health.
Because I don't just want to look young,
I want to feel young.
Recent scientific findings demonstrate
that it is not only possible
to slow down the aging process,
but it's also possible to reverse it.
That is why I use cell being by Verso.
Cell being contains scientifically proven ingredients
that target the root causes of aging.
And that way you can avoid the whack-a-mole process
that you get when you use regular supplements.
It contains NMN, resveratrol, TMG,
and together these ingredients turn on longevity pathways
in your body to help fight the effects of aging.
It also improves metabolism,
boosting your NAD plus and so on.
I started using cell being years ago,
originally when nutritional scientist,
Dr. Don Dagestino came on the show
and explained to me all of the amazing benefits.
Now I use it for pre-workout.
I use it in the morning for an extra boost of energy.
And essentially it is the holy grail.
Verso also publishes third-party testing
from each batch produced to guarantee
you're getting what you pay for.
So if you want to support the show,
click the link down in the description.
It's buy.ver.so slash Danny
or use the coupon code Danny at checkout
for 15% off your first order.
Again, that's B-U-Y.ver.so slash D-A-N-N-Y
for 15% off your first order.
And don't forget to use the coupon code Danny.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
Whoever wrote about it in 200 BC or AD
probably had sources that we don't have anymore.
So he's writing about it.
He's passing it down.
And we, for some reason, that text survives.
But he had access to text that we don't even have anymore.
So there was different text to their availability
that are lost.
We have, think about it like this,
from all the texts that are ever written in the ancient world,
I would probably say less than 10% of them survive.
So more text, by far, we've lost than what we have.
Right.
And if you keep remembering that,
it's like we don't even,
there's a lot of stuff we don't know about, you know?
Or we just lost.
And then you have to go off of second hand sources.
What does the person say about the text?
That's how you, that they're called fragments.
A fragment means the text survives,
but not in its original form.
It's like somebody citing another text.
For example, a big example of this would be Eusebius,
as a church historian from the time of Constantine, 325 AD.
And he wrote a text called Preparation for the Gospels,
Preparatio Evangelica.
And in that text, he like copies chunks of other texts
that we lost.
That's him.
And he preserves all this ancient stuff
that we have, we don't even,
we wouldn't have it if it wasn't for him.
So we have to go through a text to find another text.
So what they call those fragments.
It means that we don't have the real text,
but we have someone else writing about that text.
That's what a fragment is.
Yeah.
It's just a freaking...
So you can piece together like some text that we lost
from what people are saying about them.
Right.
We lost out of Homer's text.
We only have the Homer's Iliad and Homer's Odyssey,
but he wrote eight of those.
So he wrote a text called the Achilliad,
which is the prelude to the story of the Iliad.
It's Achilles when he grew up.
Apparently, he grew up among the Amazonian tribes,
the women.
He grew up as a girl.
Who did?
Achilles.
Achilles, the great warrior hero Achilles.
The symbol of masculinity grew up as a female, as a girl.
Yeah.
Because he had to hide himself from Hera.
But Homer wrote all these different texts, the Achilliad.
He wrote, I can't remember what the other one's called,
but he wrote like 10.
He wrote...
I think they said he wrote eight major epics.
And we only have two of them.
But...
And Homer was also...
He was like a medical guy, like a doctor.
Homer, he's a bard.
A bard.
Just like a singer or a rhapsodist.
So he performs, he sings his...
Like the Iliad was sung.
It wasn't a book that you just read.
Oh, I'm thinking of somebody else.
It was a performance.
It was a whole full-blown performance in a theater.
That's what the Iliad was.
Like the way you would go to Star Wars and everybody's like,
the new Star Wars is out.
The new Homer just dropped.
That's how it must have been nuts.
Holy shit.
Homer's text, the Achilliad, the one I just mentioned,
we don't have the original Greek.
We have a Latin version from a guy named Statius
from the Roman period.
And he had...
So he rewrites Homer's text in Latin.
That's why we have the Achilliad.
Not from the Homer, from the Latin version.
So that's how you can piece together his text that we lost.
So we don't have the original Greek?
No.
Wow, dude.
Yeah.
That is so crazy.
And there's a lot of text like that.
There's a lot of...
Who was the guy I'm thinking of?
The guy, the Greek guy who talked about
like ancient remedies and medicines.
It's all about...
It's all in the chemical music.
Galen.
Galen.
That's who I'm thinking of.
Galen.
By the way, Galen, it was such a big deal.
He became...
Galen's works, because he's...
Galen's drawing from the guys before him.
Diascorides.
Esclipiades.
These are all like medical texts that these ancient writers
are talking.
Hippocrates is another one.
And Galen takes all of this stuff
and he writes, you know, he writes...
Galen writes his stuff.
And he's drawing from these sources,
but he's writing all the up-to-date medical procedures,
how to do certain medical procedures,
what medicines to prescribe.
He writes hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages,
dozens and maybe even 100 books about medical stuff.
Galen's works become the standard medical text
from the second century all the way to the Enlightenment.
It means Galen was the go-to forever until the Enlightenment.
Then nobody could cop him.
That's how good he was.
That's what...
This is just...
That's nothing like...
So they said Galen and Aristotle are the two pillars
of the West from the time of Aristotle to Galen.
So from the second century all the way until 16th,
17th century, Galen and Aristotle are dominating medicine,
science and philosophy.
That's where you go to.
That's so wild.
And that's why people still think people will...
The term dark ages.
This consensus is that it wasn't as dark as we thought.
But I think you can make a case that...
Look, before the Middle Ages, you had all these great...
You had Euripides.
You had Virgil, Ovid, Aristotle, Plato, Archimedes,
all these giant, great, amazing thinkers.
And then between 500 AD up until 1600 for a thousand years,
there's like...
You can't...
There's no comparison from the ancient to the...
That period.
The thousand years before 500 AD, everything is just amazing thinkers,
amazing new advancements, all this.
And then...
And by the way, what's his name?
I can't remember the guy's name right now.
A scientist.
He talks about this.
He got in trouble for saying this.
He said...
He said...
I think the dark ages is a legit term.
And maybe it isn't, maybe it is.
But at least as far as writing good classic text,
that stopped from 500 AD until 1600.
Can you name a classic text from 700 AD?
No.
No one can.
I mean, I'm sure the experts can.
But in the household titles, like Ovid's Metamorphosis,
Homer's Iliad, it's all the ancient stuff.
It's all pre-Middle Ages.
And then the Enlightenment is when all these...
All the Shakespeare, you got all these...
All of a sudden it's like we're back, baby.
And what do you think contributed to that?
Christianity.
And this is a hot take.
There are going to be some academics that are going to see this and say,
he's wrong.
The consensus is that the dark ages wasn't so dark.
I'm not convinced about that.
I think it was.
I think the dark ages is a legit term that should be used.
It's a hot take.
I'm going against the grain with that one.
Huh.
Yeah.
I think it was Christianity.
I think once the church...
What about Christianity?
I think it set up a new world where the main
focus was church, go to church, work or become a soldier for the Roman army or whatever.
The Frankish army or be a farmer or be a pat, be a cha.
It was like the world was just centered around the church.
There wasn't anything...
Like before the church, there was all these different world views.
There's all these different philosophies.
The Stoics, the cynics, the Epicurians, the playwriters,
whatever.
You have the tragic writers.
You have the comic writers.
And then all of a sudden, it's like from the time of Justinian until we get the enlightenment,
it's just all the texts are all church fathers.
Right.
It's all on the trinity.
It's like, oh, a new saint wrote another book about the trinity.
Great.
All the texts you get from that period.
And it's like the whole focus of the Western world is just on the church.
Right.
It's all anyone cared about.
They became, that was the world.
Now, what do you attribute to all the great thinkers of the time of Plato and Aristotle
and Socrates and the creation of democracy and the scientific method and all this stuff?
Like what caused that?
Yeah, like what do you think was responsible for that time and the creation of those or
there's a development of people who were able to come up with these crazy ideas and theories
that affect us today?
The ability to debate, to have dialogues and not dogma.
When you have a dogma that this has to be true and anyone who doesn't believe it
is a heretic and would burn at the stake versus everybody can pitch in and give their two cents
and disagree and agree.
And of course, there were dogmas back then too.
Of course, there were people like, for example, Socrates is famous.
He got condemned for importing foreign gods and leading people.
Of course, there was still that stuff going on,
but not at the degree in the Middle Ages where you couldn't be a pagan in the Middle Ages.
You're done.
That's a heresy that you could burn for witchcraft for that.
So I think what contributes, and by the way, Richard Carrier,
him and I don't get along, but whatever, he's right about this.
There's a term, they call it the Greek miracle.
And people look at the classical period during the pre-Socratic era up until Plato
and they just go, what the hell happened?
Right, exactly.
It's just an explosion of intellect.
Yes.
And it's like, it's hard to even describe it,
just explosion of intellect during that time period.
It never been seen before, never been seen again until 17th century.
I wonder if it was psychedelics.
I think that's a great theory because psychedelics rewires the brain.
And look, we know they were doing psychedelics because the Ellosinian mysteries
were centered around Caikian, which is a drink that they made using, it was a potion.
We don't know exactly what was in the potion.
There are some iconography to suggest that mushrooms were involved,
but there's also ergot, which is fermented grain.
And they would take this drink and it was called being inspired by the god, entheogen.
This Caikian was what, like an ancient beer or something?
Yeah, ancient beer, ancient wine.
They would use wine and or beer, depending on who was making it.
And it was a, it was a potion with psychedelics and they would drink this drink and look,
the Ellosinian mysteries, there's the Catholic church and everyone was,
it was the dominant religion of the Western world, Orthodox in the East, right?
Before that though, the Ellosinian mysteries dominated everything.
It was the biggest thing there was.
People would, there's a story from a guy named, what's his name?
Nicholas of Damascus, a guy named Nicholas of Damascus wrote a story about people traveling
all the way from India to get initiated into the Ellosinian mystery.
That's how famous they were.
They were traveling from India through Persia, through Babylon, through Anatolia,
all the way till Ionia, all the way and get on a boat and then go to Athens.
Just to get initiated into the mysteries and happened once a year where they do the initiations.
And Plato was initiated, Socrates was initiated, Alexander the Great was initiated, Augustus
was initiated, Cleopatra, Julia Domna, all the greatest, most famous people you can think of
were all initiated in the Ellosinian mysteries.
There's another one called the Samothracian mysteries, which is on the island of Samothrace
and it was older, but it was almost as famous.
We know that Philip of Macedon, the father of Alexander the Great, was married there to Olympias
when he was, he was Prince of Macedonia and she was Princess of Epirus.
And they met at the initiation ceremony.
But anyways, long story short, they said that at these mysteries, at these initiations,
people would, their lives would be transformed and they no longer feared death.
So whatever this experience was, we don't know much about it because it was secret.
And this is how, this is how secret it was.
Ascalus was one of the famous poets from the 5th century BC.
He wrote the Promethean trilogy, great Promethean trilogy.
He got almost killed, he had to go on trial, he won the trial.
But his, his, he was guilty of revealing the mysteries of the Yellow Zinians.
You weren't allowed to do that.
You weren't allowed to tell anybody what was going on there.
So all the texts we have is like very, like, oh, we, like what exactly goes inside,
goes on inside of there?
We don't really know.
But we know that when people leave, they, they report that their lives were transformed forever.
The only thing we do know is we know that there was a saying when you went in there
and you had to say these words, it's almost like when they said, you know,
they, when you get a Eucharist, I don't know if you're Catholic or not,
if someone watching might, might understand this.
When you get a Eucharist, you put your hand out and you say, they say, body of Christ, amen.
Well, they, the Yellow Zinian mysteries had their own version of this, where you would,
you would take, you would, after your initiative, you would say, I have drinking from the cup.
I have grabbed the, it's like, I have received the image and I place it back
in the chest.
Those are the words you have to say.
We don't really know what it means.
We just know that we just have a couple sources that say this.
So you drink from the cup, you receive the image and you put it back, whatever that means.
And they report the people who were initiated said their lives were transformed forever
and they no longer feared death.
Because the whole point of the initiation was salvation.
And they said that if, if you were initiated in the mysteries, when you die,
there's a special place for you in Hades, designated for the initiates of the mysteries.
It's called Elysium.
And it's where everybody just parties 24 seven in bliss.
And so when you got initiated, you know, you were, it was like being,
getting it, getting your confirmation at the church.
It was like, I'm part of the, part of heaven now.
So that idea of salvation definitely is credited to the Yellow Zinian mysteries.
Wow, man.
And it was like a deli.
Didn't Brian Merrescu do some studies on what was inside of some of these,
these old like vases and they've like found like remnants of what's in there and studied
like the chemical compounds or breakdown or whatever's in there.
Yeah. He's, his book is amazing.
Yeah. The immortality.
Immortality key. Got it. Got it.
What is this? Elysium fields?
Elysium fields according to Homer.
Look at, yeah, this is where you go.
This is the, this is the, the place in Hades.
Because Hades has different places in it.
It's the underworld.
Tartarus is the pit.
Tartarus is where people go to get tortured.
That's the, that's where you, that's hell.
Elysium is above Tartarus.
That's where you go.
And that's where all the people who are good people and initiates.
So you go there, if you're initiated, you're saved.
Chronos, like it says, Chronos is the rule of,
Chronos, Chronos rules Elysium.
And then Hades or Pluto rules Hades with his wife Persephone who's called the Corey.
And so that's, that's where you get the Fortune and Isles.
And so there's a whole map down there.
But that's where people, that, that was the ancient heaven.
That was the ancient underworld or heaven and hell or right next to each other.
It was like right, right across the street.
Oh, and by the way, in the New Testament reflects this,
because there's a, there's a parable about the, the rich man and the beggar.
And the rich man ends up in hell.
And he's like begging the beggar who's up there with Abraham.
It says he's in the bosom of Abraham.
And he's saying, give me a drop of water.
And Abraham was like, it's too late.
You should have, you should have, you know,
you should have repented before it was too late.
And like, they're right next to each other.
The heaven and hell.
So even, even, even in the New Testament,
the idea of heaven and hell or right next to there is reflected right there.
Yeah.
So it's not that, it's not that far off from Judeo-Christian cosmology.
They're all, look, we like to put a force field around Israel
and then say, these are all pagans.
And then this is the monotheist and they're in,
they had different religions going on.
That's not what it was.
They were all borrowing from each other.
They were all within the same cosmology.
They all believe in different stuff, but they all, at the end of the day,
it's all interrelated.
It's like, it's like Marvel and DC comics.
Like it's, that separation didn't really happen.
They were all in the same universe.
They were all worshiping different, different gods and different rituals,
but they all believed somewhat of the same stuff.
Like it was all borrowing from each other.
Right, right.
And going back to like the Ellucinian Mysteries,
what, like there was a lot of depictions of the pinecone.
Like somebody had the pinecone staff.
The Theosoi, the Theosis.
The Theosis, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dionysus held a staff and he wore an IV diadem on his head,
but he had this, he had this staff.
It was called a Theosis and it had a pinecone on top and a ribbon on it.
And it was a magic wand called a rhomdos.
That's what I mean, it's wand in Greek,
but the staff was called a Theosis,
but it was a type of rhomdos, which is a wand.
And it was a magic staff.
Yeah.
By the way, Jesus, the oldest images of Jesus in the world
that we have are not this old bearded guy.
It's a shaven young guy holding a wand.
You can look it up.
Jesus with wand.
Watch this.
Jesus with a wand.
Yeah, type in Jesus with a wand.
This is the oldest image of Jesus in the world.
This is what he looks like.
The oldest image of Jesus.
Those are the oldest images of Jesus.
Yeah, those are from catacombs from the second and third century.
We don't have anything from the first century.
Where, look, where, where is it?
Catacombs, probably somewhere in Italy, somewhere.
Blow that up, Steve.
Yeah.
That's, that's one of, I'm not going to,
we don't know which one's older,
but these are the oldest images of Jesus that exist.
They're the top 10.
What is he supposed to be doing right now?
He's holding a wand out.
He's raising Lazarus from the dead.
That's what that is.
And by the way, look, he's got no beard.
And how do we know that's supposed to be Jesus?
It's, it's, it's the Christian catacombs.
Oh, yeah.
The whole, the whole catacombs is all seen from the Bible.
It's all, all of them look like that.
They all of them have a young, no,
perfectly shaven boy.
He's, Jesus is young.
He's in his twenties, right?
He died in his, he died around 30, 33.
Right.
So yeah, he's just a young guy with a magic wand in his hand.
He holds a wand.
He's a magician.
What do you, do you think there's any connection
between the, the depiction of the pine cone and the pineal gland?
Could be.
Could be.
I mean, that's where, that's where the word pineal gland comes from, right?
Cause it looks like a pine cone.
That's what they said.
Right.
So there's probably something,
there could be something going on there.
And by the way, we know the ancients were taking,
were opening up bodies to look at the inside.
Gailin, Gailin, Gailin writes about the insides of the,
the brain, what it looks like.
He maps out the whole human body.
So they knew what the body looked like.
They knew what the inner brain looked like.
They knew what a pineal gland was.
They might have called it something else.
Right.
But they knew what it looked like.
So then that might have, that's possible.
They might have said that maybe there's a wand inside of us
with the pineal gland on top.
Right.
That could be what they thought.
Oh my God.
You know, I would say that's a good,
that's a decent theory right there.
I would say that's, that makes sense.
I mean, and it makes, it's also,
it also makes sense like the ubiquitous,
the ubiquitous use of drugs back then,
because of all of the famine and all of the people dying from combat
and combat injuries and the plagues that were going on all the time.
Josephus is rough.
Josephus writes about first century Israel.
And there are scenes where he says,
when I was walking through Nazareth and the whole road
was just thousands of people on crucified, dead bodies on it.
The whole Israel was like that because it's war torn.
They're getting destroyed by the Romans during the 60s, late 60s, 80.
And he says, in this one village, everybody was starving to death.
There was no food.
And the Roman centurions went into,
they started smelling something cooking.
And they were starving.
They're like, who's cooking?
Who's got food?
Let's go get it.
And they ran into a building.
And there was this woman named Maryam, Mary, Maryam in Greek.
And she was eating her baby.
Oh my God, dude.
That's how, that's how bad it got.
So yeah, first century was a different world.
It's so, it's so freaking wild to think about.
Just imagine walking through the countryside of Judea
and just seeing in the distance
a whole row of wooden stakes with people crucified on them.
And it's just like, that's just so, that's, that's crazy.
So is it true that the two guys that were crucified next to Jesus
were also traffickers or pirates?
That we don't know.
We don't know what they were doing.
There's no text that indicates what they were doing.
Well, that's something I won't say.
Yeah, that's what he said.
They were both, they were both lay stays.
He might have a source to prove that.
I don't know where he got that from.
I'm not going to deny it.
Like he, he might have a source to indicate that.
I never heard that though.
But here's the thing about Amom.
He says a lot of stuff that initially you go, huh?
And then you just, if you just ask him and press him on it,
he'll show you where he got it from.
He's never not had, he's always backed up, everything he says.
Yeah.
So I'm sure he, I'm sure there's a reason why.
He has it in a book.
He brought in an actual book of Galen, like showed it to me.
And I was like looking through it.
He's pointing out things to me on certain pages
and showing it to me and we were like looking it up.
And yeah, incredible dude.
That was like, I think that's what he got.
He got obsessed with the Greek.
So he's got his PhD and was like studying Galen,
which is like medical texts.
So he's all, he's like medically,
ancient Greek, medically minded.
That's why he sees everything through that lens
where he's, when he's reading stuff,
he'll think about it through that lens.
And what was the story?
So he got, he got ousted from the university he was at
because he was setting, he was, he was putting together a play
based on the God of...
Priapus.
Priapus.
Yes, that's what it was.
Priapus was the son of Aphrodite and Dionysus.
He was like a divine child.
His son.
He's always depicted as having a huge erect...
And people would take these Priapus statues
and they put them in their front lawn like a gnome.
Right.
To scare off animals.
Right, right.
That's pretty cool.
But he was making, he was writing a play for his students
because he was a classes teacher.
That's metal.
And he, he was, the phallus was a huge ancient Greek.
That's the phet, like, and those are the statues, right?
And he was, he was showing, he was showing this in class
and they fired him for that.
But guess what happened though?
His students were belled and had a protest
and shut down the school for a day.
There's a whole article written about it.
After he was kicked out.
Yeah.
Well, wasn't there like an investigation by the Catholic Church?
Yeah, he got investigated.
He got investigated by the Catholic Church
for all types of stuff.
For summoning demons and opening portals.
That's what, that's what it says.
That's what the, that's what the court says.
Yeah, they're, and they're, and you know,
all the Catholic churches, you go to Italy,
they really do exorcisms.
They really believe like, this isn't even in 2024,
they're still, they still do exorcisms.
They have buildings in Italy that are for people
who need to be exercised, like little, little,
you know how we have like these local medical places
you can go in, those quick medical,
New York state has them.
I don't know what they have in here.
The, the urgent cares.
Urgent cares.
They have like, they have exorcism,
urgent cares in the state of, in the country of Italy.
No way.
Yes, so that's, yeah.
Look up, yeah, you have to look up.
Italy, exorcism locations.
Yeah, they do them there.
It's a job too scary for young priests.
No, they're still doing them.
What's his name?
Just had to type in Italy exorcism 2024.
Yeah, try that, try that.
Yeah.
No, this is a movie.
Keep going, scroll down, scroll down, scroll down.
Cursing, you can try to find some locations.
I just saw resurgence, something said resurgence.
Resurgence of exorcism in Italy, see?
Oh, there you go.
Click that, yeah.
Good catch.
Zoom in on that.
Happily we are, what is this website?
Christian Healing Ministries.
We are rediscovering the fullness of the ministry of healing
and deliverance from evil spirits.
We know that there were embarrassing extremes
during the 14th through the 17th centuries
when preachers were fascinated with the witches and witchcraft.
And there was a shameful number of burnings,
including Joan of Arc, then came a massive turnaround
featured by increasing skepticism
about the very existence of angels and of Satan in particular.
The skepticism is still largely with us.
Since we are still learning about the healing and deliverance,
we should be eager to learn from anyone
who might have something valuable to teach us.
So when I read about the new book that has come out
and entitled the Vatican Exorcists
Driving Out the Devil in the 21st Century,
I quickly ordered it.
And then, okay, this is, so this guy is,
this guy is talking about.
You know who Cameron Bertuzzi is?
No.
He's a Christian YouTuber.
Big, he's got like 500,000 subscribers.
He's huge.
He just had an interview with an exorcist a couple of days ago.
And this, that's where I heard this from.
Oh, really?
The exorcist says in Italy,
they have these pop-up exorcist places.
People can just go to.
Is this exorcist they interviewed in Italy?
I don't know if he was in Italy.
He spoke English.
But I think he's, I think he got trained in Italy
because he was a Catholic.
So he had to do training.
They do like full training.
He's an exorcist.
He was telling, he's telling crazy stories.
That's so crazy.
He has to like diagnose if they're real or not first.
I wonder how they do that.
Because people fake them.
Which I think they all do.
Or maybe not.
Maybe they're just really like feeling it.
I don't know.
I don't know how to explain what the hell is going on with an exorcist.
Like that's, that's some next level psychology shit going on.
I wonder if they film it.
When you really put yourself into a certain mindset
and go full, go full with it.
It's, there's, that physical feeling is real.
Whatever it is, whatever psychology behind it is.
I don't know how to explain that.
I'm not, you know, but there's something going on.
Yeah.
It's definitely something real about it.
And I think the same thing for the Dionysian religions
of the ancient world, they're probably,
because when they would say, when you were inspired by Dionysus,
you would feel the mania from it.
That you would feel it.
It's like a whole, it's like a different version of the Holy Spirit.
Right.
In that sense.
So I'm sure they were feeling all the same emotions for their gods too.
You know?
Yeah.
No, I think that's probably the case with some of these exorcism people.
They just, they're, I bet you, if you, if you really did a study on like
all those people that are getting exorcised or think they're possessed
or believe to be possessed, I would imagine they would have to
be really, really religious people.
Yeah.
And really believe in Jesus and Satan and angels and demons.
If, and if you, I would be curious, like, I doubt there's any
atheists who get possessed by demons.
Probably so.
Here's, here's another sample.
Oh my God, look at this.
And you know, let's check this out.
And they're probably just, they probably just go into the psych ward.
And if I don't think it's a demon, they just think they're crazy.
Yes.
How old are you?
This guy's about to flip out.
Yeah.
He's possessed.
56 is a Christian and former pastor.
He's been dealing with entrenched demons his whole life.
His mother was a victim of incest.
Previous attempts, Sam's demonization is complex and deep.
Bob must first start to get him.
That's how he was a pastor though.
Yes, exactly.
He probably planted the seeds in his own mind.
Here's the drama.
Oh, he's faking.
He's a bad actor.
Yeah.
It's like role play.
Yeah.
It's like, it does look like role play.
They're never gonna look at that guy the same ever again.
Did that whole church, they're never gonna look at him the same ever again after this.
Yeah.
Oh, they're just selling it.
Stage play.
Yeah.
He's into it.
Look at that guy's alien shirt.
Ah, we all.
Yeah, he's selling it, dude.
There's no way.
Damn.
That's so fake.
Did they plan that out?
Absolutely.
I think, yeah, I think they probably planned it out.
They hired the videographer.
They're trying to blow up the YouTube channel.
Yeah, you're right.
There's definitely a video out there.
That's a good camera.
Yeah, they have.
They have it all planned out.
Yeah.
I mean, but like, I bet you it's not, they're not all planned out,
but these people probably have mental health issues.
And if you want to call, like, if we're gonna call it spiritual or mental,
there might be some sort of gray area, like we call, like whatever you want to call it,
right?
Yeah.
They might have those emotional problems that are going on.
And, you know, some might call it spiritual, some might call it emotional,
but I think there's just two words describing the same thing.
Right.
You know, whatever it is.
What was the burning purple?
Do you know what I'm talking about?
There was a recent article that came out where they discovered, like,
this purple dye in Egypt or something.
Yeah, I'm glad you brought those up, because this is gonna bring us back to the Christian stuff.
There is, in a lot of these ancient texts, concerning the mysteries, there's always
a reoccurring thing about this drug or drink that was considered to be burning purple.
And a lot of these seers, which are profits, were described with, like, purple stained teeth.
Because they're drinking this shit, right?
And that's what they called burning purple.
And so, but get this, there's a group of Christians called the Valentinians.
And just to do a quick little run up to that, I'll bring it back to the purple, I promise.
But this guy named Valentinus was a really famous Christian in the second century.
Maybe late first, too.
But he really became, like, famous in the early second to middle second.
Around 140 AD, somewhere around 140, 139, 141, whatever, one of those years.
He ran during the election for the next Bishop of Rome, which is what the pope is today.
He was gonna be the pope.
Okay.
The Bishop of Rome is the pope.
Pontifist Maximus, it's a title that goes all the way back to Julius Caesar and beyond that.
Julius Caesar was the Pontifist Maximus in his time.
He was the religious leader of Rome.
People don't know that.
But after, after Augustus, the title went to whoever was the emperor.
And then when Constantine, or somewhere, but from right before Constantine,
at some point they changed it to no longer as the emperor of the Pontifist Maximus.
They gave it back to the bishops again.
So the Bishop, the Christian Bishop became the Pontifist Maximus, the highest priest you can be
in the Roman Empire.
And in the second century, in the second century,
when the Christians had their own Bishop of Rome, Pontifist Maximus system,
that was different from what the pagans were doing when they had the emperor be the Pontifist
Maximus.
So this is a whole different thing.
Anyways, Valentinus ran for this office and he'd lost by like a couple of votes.
And he would have been the Bishop of Rome.
He would be on everyone's list of popes right now.
Peter was the first pope, right?
And then there's John Paul and whatever all the way down to who's the pope right now.
He would have been on that list.
He would have been like the fifth one from Peter, fourth or fifth.
He was like, there's only a few between Peter and this guy.
He just barely lost.
I just wanted to bring that up because I want to show you how important these people were
in the church early on.
This is not just some random nobody.
His successor was named, his name is Marcus the Valentinian.
His other title was Marcus Magus, Marcus Magus.
And this guy got in trouble.
He was in Rome.
He was performing Eucharist and he was adding purple, some purple substance to the drinks
and he was causing people to hallucinate.
It was a psychedelic potion.
He was adding it to the Eucharist.
We get this from Hippolysis talks about this and Irenaeus.
So we have two corroborating sources about this saying that this guy Marcus,
the successor of Valentinus was performing Eucharist with burning purple in it.
It says purple, let's say burning, but it says he was adding purple to the drink,
which put two and two together.
Purple psychedelics, it has to be, most likely it's this burning purple stuff that
everyone's talking about.
Right.
And so he was causing people were tripping out and seeing and getting the Holy Spirit and
seeing Jesus and Mary, whatever.
Yeah.
And this is what he was, he was basically making it happen with this drug.
So Hippolysis writes about this.
He says this guy was a magician.
He was an illusionist.
He was causing people to trip out with this drug and it's purple.
It's purple drink and they call it.
But yeah.
So that text indicates that these early Christians were using this purple substance
in their Eucharist.
What was in the Eucharist itself?
That's the wine.
So the Eucharist is the wine, which represents the blood of Christ and the bread is the body
of Christ.
Right.
There is a precedent for this in the Ellosinian mysteries,
because Demeter is the grain goddess, Dionysus is the wine god.
So those two together, when you drink the caikion, you're taking in the gods.
And this is not like, this is what they would say too.
Dionysus was entering your body when you drink this, when you drink the wine.
And Demeter was entering your body when you drink the grain, the beer.
So this caikion mix was basically having these gods enter your body,
just like the Christians are doing with the Eucharist.
Wow dude.
Since we're on the topic of Marcus, Magus and this purple stuff.
Right.
I probably should give a little rundown, because this sounds like this is so out there.
While Christians don't do this stuff, that's crazy.
This must be not true.
But if you actually look at what these early Christian groups were doing,
you'll see that this is not that out of place.
I mentioned the Barbarites, obviously.
The one with that crazy gospel with Mary drinking the load.
And there's another group called the Nascins.
These are my favorite ones.
Second century, they operated in Asia Minor, modern day Turkey.
And they, they had this, they were followed,
they're led by a guy named the Nascin preacher.
We don't know his real name.
Almost sources say he's called the Nascin preacher.
Never says his name.
And he was basically equating Jesus with other gods like Dionysus, Addis,
Adonis, Osiris, Pan.
So he had a hymn.
It was the, it was the Orphic, I don't know, Homeric hymn to Addis.
This was an ancient Homeric age hymn dedicated to the god Addis.
And in this hymn, whoever wrote it, I don't know if it was Homer
or attributed to Homer, it's called the Homeric hymn.
But in this hymn, basically what happens is the, it starts off with,
you are the son of Kronos, great son of Rhea, Dionysus, Bacchus, Addis.
They call you, you know, in Egypt, they call you Osiris.
In Phrygia, they call you Papis.
In Samothrace, they call you Adonis.
And it goes through and it lists all these sons of god characters.
And they're basically saying these are all the same god.
And the Nascin preacher took this hymn and then changed it to Jesus.
So the Nascins believe that all of these sons of god characters, Dionysus, Addis, Osiris,
Adonis, are all prophecies or, or prefigurations of the Christ.
He also talked about how Christ is the fulfillment of the Ellosinian mysteries.
So that's in the second century.
Christ is the fulfillment of the Ellosinian mystery.
What does that, what does that mean?
That's what he says in his, in the whatever fragment we have,
so what I'm referring to in this, a guy named Hippolytus,
one of the great church fathers, Hippolytus, he's a saint, saint Hippolytus.
He wrote a text called Against Heresies.
And in this text, he has a whole chapter about this one guy and he preserves these texts.
And one of the things he quotes from saying is this, him saying,
Christ is the fulfillment of the Ellosinian mysteries.
So does that, is he saying Christ is being high on drugs?
Could be.
That's one, that's one, that's one way that the Christ is a DMT trip.
Could be.
I mean, then that's the thing, these Nasin's were into that stuff.
They were into the frenzies.
They were into the Baqik mania.
They were into the whole prophecy and speaking in tongues and getting,
getting, getting the spirit, getting wild up like that.
There was another group called the Ophites.
By the way, Nasin means snake people.
So the Ophites are the Nasin's down in Egypt.
And the Nasin's are the Ophites in Asia Minor, Turkey.
They're, they're the same group.
They're, they're snake, Ophite, Oph, Ophite means snake people in Greek.
Nasin's means snake people in Hebrew.
So there's, they're both, they're both a snake people, but they're Christians.
They believe in Christ.
The Scythians are another group that believe in this doctrine that Christ is the serpent
in the garden that came to save Eve from this God Yelteboeth
and said, eat this fruit and attain gnosis.
That's what they're, that's what that's, that's their doctrine.
So that's why you could see why it became heresy.
Right. Right.
But this is what they believed in.
And a lot of Christians believe this too.
It wasn't just this random, there was like 10 different sects in God.
Christ was the serpent.
Serpent in the garden.
And then so this is from Adam.
To save them from Yelteboeth, the God in the garden that was keeping him there.
He said, they're saying, you're in a prison planet.
And to get, to get free, you have to eat this apple or eat the fruit.
Doesn't say apple, this is fruit and attain gnosis.
And the idea is you'll save mankind by eating the gnosis, by eating the apple,
your generations coming after you will keep getting smarter and smarter and smarter and
smarter until they can become gods.
So they're, they're taking that the opposite way,
where the, the original thing was Adam and Eve fell from paradise.
This is saying they attain gnosis and can become like gods.
And basically like every generation that goes by,
attains more knowledge in the generation before it.
And we're on our way to become things like humans are on their way to becoming gods
at some point in the future, which could be true.
Maybe one day we become immortal. Who knows.
I got a question. I got a question.
Yeah.
So, so, um, you said that these, uh, what are the, the, the, the not seeing people,
these, these folks right here.
Yeah, yeah. Oh, no, no, no, that's nice scene.
It's N-A-S-S or N-A-A-N-A-A-S-S.
N-A-A-S-S-E-N-E-S-E-N-E-S Butterfinger.
Yeah. Not seen. That's it.
In the scenes. Anyway.
So you said that they're, they're, they're called the snake people.
That's your logo of your channel.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's it. That's it.
That's a breakfast. I'll get 10 minutes. I'll get, I'll get to what that is in a minute.
Okay. Okay.
So go ahead.
So Hillman was, was talking about how, uh, there was this, this, uh, this drug that used a,
a lot of snake.
Snake venom.
Venom.
Yes.
It was an antidote.
Yeah. These people are snake handlers.
So they're obviously, they're like, they're, oh no, I'm sorry. It wasn't an antidote.
The antidote was something else.
The Christ was the antidote.
No, the antidote is a venom too.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
There's dotes and antidotes and they're both venoms.
Okay. Got it.
But I, I, I can, I, I mean, I see a relationship there, but I don't know if that is true.
I was just curious if that is.
No, that would be a, because these, they're known, that's what Hippolytus says.
See how, see Hippolytus of Rome right there.
He says that these people are snake handlers.
So they're, they're known for carrying around snakes, doing things with snakes and using
snakes for their rituals.
So it wouldn't be a stretch to say that they're doing some sort of using the thems for whatever.
Um, but the Ophites are the ones in Egypt.
The Scythians are also agreeing with them in the doctrine that Christ is the serpent.
And this is how they argue it.
And when Moses is in the desert, this is actually backed up by the Gospels,
believe it or not.
This is not that heretical that you think, and I'll explain why.
In, in, in Exodus, Moses, when they're in the, when they're in the wilderness,
Moses holds up a serpent on a rod when they're all getting, when they're all thirsty and dying.
I don't know if you know this passage.
Oh yeah.
And he says, just look at the serpent and it'll save you.
And that's what they were doing.
They would go up and look at this Brosnan serpent and it would save them.
Then in the gospel of John, there's a passage that says, it's from Jesus, his own lips.
He says, just as Moses lifts up the serpent, the son of man must be lifted up.
He's saying, I am this serpent.
So these, these Christian groups are saying, no, we're not heretics.
This is from John's gospel.
This is from the gospel.
That's what they're saying.
That's how they're arguing it.
And it's interesting because the story about Moses being in the desert
and they're all thirsty.
That's what the snake venom does.
It makes you see them.
Yeah.
Well, that's the snake venom.
That's another way to, that's another crazy.
It makes you super thirsty.
They're all thirsting and it's the serpent.
Yeah, I love that.
That makes a lot of sense.
Look up just as Moses, the son of, type in just as Moses lifted up the serpent.
Just type that in and then I'll show you the verse I'm talking about.
There you go.
There you go.
See, look at John 3.14.
Yes.
It's from the gospel of John.
As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness,
even so must the son of man be lifted up.
So him, so Christ on the cross is the serpent in the wilderness.
The son of man.
That means that's another title for Jesus.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So he's basically, he's saying, just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness,
I will be lifted up on the cross.
He's basically saying, I am the serpent.
It's not a, like you can't say that's wrong.
I'm just saying, this is what these Christians.
What does that mean?
He's the, he's the, he's the symbol of wisdom.
The snake was the symbol of knowledge and wisdom to the future.
To this day, the medical symbol that you see in every hospital is what?
Oh yeah, the snake.
Look at the symbol of the asclepius, asclepius medical symbol.
Is it like a snake in a shield or something?
It's a snake on a rod.
A rod?
Yeah.
Oh, yes, that.
That's, that's the symbol of the, of salvation.
Whoa.
That's one of the ancient Greeks.
That's the, that's the, that's the ambulance logo right there.
Look at the cross on and everything.
Click on the blue one.
Yeah.
Look, that's, that's the chai roe.
Yeah.
I never really, I mean, I knew it was a chai roe.
C-H-I-R-H-O.
C-H-I-R-H-O.
See?
Oh, wait, that's just, oh, that's very similar.
It's exactly the same.
Yeah.
There's no snake here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But, but what I'm saying is they're saying that Christ is that snake on the cross.
And so the medical symbol that we have to this day,
not only comes from this, this motif, but it predates that.
It goes into the, the Greeks.
This rod of, look up, rod of Asclepius.
If you can look that up real quick.
Asclepius is rod.
Yeah.
You could just type in Asclepius rod.
It'll work.
Seven rod.
Yeah.
See?
Okay.
That's an ancient medical symbol of the Greeks.
And so the, the Christians are just drawing from this motif.
That's, that's what Moses is doing in the desert too.
He's wrong.
They're, they're, they're, they're, they're applying the motif to Moses.
It's the symbol of medicine.
So it does, this does play into Ammon.
So that may mean Jesus was medicine.
Christ is medicine.
Christ is medicine.
He's salvation.
Christ is drugs.
Yeah, dude.
Isn't that crazy?
Wow.
That's Asclepius.
By the way, Asclepius is another dying and rising God too.
He gets killed and rises up to heaven.
He's another.
So it's this very common motif in the ancient Greek world for,
for gods to die and resurrect.
Very common.
Hillman is just,
Addis, Addis gets killed by castrating himself and then he resurrects.
There's two versions.
One of them says of, of tree sprang up where he said,
representing his resurrection.
In the other version, he actually resurrects as a human.
What was the term for people who castrated themselves again?
Galley, Galloway.
And why, why were people castrating themselves?
They're becoming initiated into the mysteries of the great mother.
And there's a lot of people who think that,
Steve, I can hear you crunching.
The great mother,
the great mother religion was in close proximity to these Nascenes.
Because they would say the Nascene hymns,
one of the Nascene hymns says,
Christ is the son of the great mother.
So there's a lot of overlap playing.
Osiris is another one of these dying and rising gods.
Osiris is killed by set torn apart.
And then it just like in the gospels,
where there's two women at the tomb at the end,
it's two women, Isis and Nephthys,
who find the body of Osiris
and bring it together at the end and resurrect them.
And then in another,
and then in the, in the Adonis story,
two women are at the,
are there for Adonis when he dies.
Adonis is another rising, dying,
this is like a common thread that we see.
It's always God dies,
two women mourn for him and then he resurrects.
It's like this weird thing that keeps happening.
And it happens in the gospels too.
It's Mary and Martha.
It's like, what's going on with that?
What does that mean?
It might be some astral theology stuff.
I don't really know, but it's,
and then even back in the ancient Babylonian story
with the God Demutzi,
when Demutzi dies,
he is mourned over by the women.
And then Ishtar descends into hell.
It's called Kurnugi.
It's the ancient Babylonian word for hell.
She goes down there.
It says in the text,
in the translation that we have from,
from Samuel Noah Kramer,
he's translate Sumerian.
And it says that Ishtar was down in hell
for three days and three nights,
dead, transfixed on a,
I think it says wood.
It doesn't say crucify,
but it says that she was transfixed
on a piece of wood,
dead as a corpse for three days.
And it says three nights.
And then the God Enki sprinkles the water of life
on her and she resurrects.
And brings the, the dead up with her.
So like that cycles lines up perfectly with what Jesus,
they said when Jesus was dead,
he descended into Hades for three days
and then resurrects.
So this motif of a God,
and then check this out.
This is where it gets crazy.
When is Ishtar?
March.
In March, April, springtime.
Right.
It depends on the,
what's called the first full moon
after the spring equinox.
So it could happen in March.
It could happen in April.
Depending on the,
whenever the first full moon happens
after the spring equinox,
which is March 22nd, I think.
Okay.
So after March 22nd,
whenever the first full moon hits,
it's the next Sunday.
You're already like,
that sounds like some pagan shit.
They're basing it off the stars and the moon and stuff.
But we find out that in the ancient world,
before Christianity was even existed,
there was these two,
there's two big,
three big festivals actually.
One of them is called the Adonia.
The other one's called the Hilaria.
And then there's another Hilaria for Osiris.
So down in Egypt,
they've celebrated the Hilaria.
It's always in March, April.
Same with the one in Rome for Addis.
Always in March, April.
And then the Adonia is always in March, April.
And they're all,
all of them are celebrating the death of a God,
either Adonis, Addis, or Osiris.
They're always weeping over a God
and then rejoicing over his resurrection.
And this one in particular
passed down to us from a guy named Arnobius of Sica.
He says that the Hilaria festival was a week long.
It starts on March 15th.
And it ends on March 20,
ends on the March.
I think either March 15th or 22nd.
Anyway, it's right at the spring equinox,
right where Easter is.
Same week as Easter.
I think it ends on March 30th or something.
And he says there's a day of burial
where they take a pine tree that represents the God.
They bury in, this is all before the first century.
This is all first century BC, before Christianity.
Okay.
They take the, they take a pine tree
and they bury it in the dirt.
And then they mourn for two days.
On the third day, it's called the day of rejoicing.
There's a day of blood.
And that's the day where they castrate themselves.
And the initiates would become priests of the great mother.
So Addis dies from castration.
The new priest every year during this Easter festival,
basically, it's called the Hilaria.
Hilaria.
It was called the day of blood.
It was the day after the day of burial
where they would weep.
They would get a new initiates.
They would castrate themselves and they become priests.
They would wear women's clothing and everything.
And on the third day, it's called the Hilaria.
Hilaria means rejoice in Latin.
The third day is the day of rejoicing.
And they would rejoice of the resurrection of Addis.
And this happens at the same week as Easter.
Oh my God, dude.
So if you're, if people-
So the Easter tradition becomes way before Christianity.
Way before, way before.
Osiris, Addis, Adonis, the Dionysus.
They all have their own resurrection festivals.
And they're always, and three of, three out of,
three out of four of those are at the same week as Easter.
Right.
But then they would bury a pine tree.
They'd bury a pine tree.
Or no.
Pine cone.
Pine tree, yeah.
Pine tree.
A pine tree.
Yes.
And that was supposed to represent a sort of God.
The dead God Addis.
The dead God Addis.
It's called the Hilaria Festival.
Look it up.
It's even on Wikipedia.
Can you look that up the Hilaria Festival?
Yeah.
This is all known stuff.
By the way, Christian scholars fight this.
They'll say, it's a coincidence.
You'll say, there's no way this doesn't influence Christianity.
They say it doesn't.
They fight this.
There's no, there's no way this influences Christianity.
That's what they say.
They say it on the Hilaria, the link.
Yeah.
I'm telling you, it's all on the link.
There you go.
Hilaria.
So if you go, if you want to read that for a second.
The Hilaria, the Latin for the cheerful one,
a term derived from the borrowed adjective, ancient Greek,
or the borrowed adjective.
March equinox.
See.
That's the great mother, Kibalee.
The March equinox to honor Kibalee.
Now, if you go down, if you go down to,
it's going to say like the days, if you go in,
I'll tell you when to stop.
Festival structure.
Oh yeah.
This might be, here it is.
Look, look, look.
March 15th, read, read.
This is the whole schedule.
The fir festival, the first festival
can be tentatively reconstructed
with the days of the festival
literally translated as follows.
15th of March, the read entered.
Its exact significance is uncertain.
The reads may refer to the river banks
where Addis was exposed as a child
and rescued by Kibalee.
The nine day period of abstinence from bread.
Like, like, like they do,
like, like how they do, um, uh,
what, right before Easter is lent.
It's like, it's like, right, right, right.
Only milk was permitted to drink.
Yeah.
22nd of March, the tree entered.
A pine tree is felled.
A tree is set up at the temple of Kibalee.
The trunk is wrapped in wool
and its branches decked with reads and violets.
It's like, it's like a Christmas tree.
Right.
Oh, whoa.
Look, it's like a Christmas tree.
Now keep going.
A pine tree is felled.
The tree is set up at the temple of Kibalee.
The trunk is wrapped in wool
and its branches decked and reads and violets.
Yeah.
And they would put, they would put little,
little toy Addises on top of it, like an angel.
This is what they said in the sources.
Look, the next day they mourned.
This is exactly what I just said.
You just repeat, look it.
Then after the day of mourning
is called the day of blood,
castration rituals would take place.
Told you.
The tree is symbolically buried.
Buried for his death.
And then look at, look at the third day.
Count from the day of mourning to the day of, uh, of joy.
Yep. The 22nd to the 25th.
Three days.
That's three days later.
Just like Jesus is dead for, on the third day he rises.
Oh my God.
Look, the day of joy on March 25th,
the resurrection of Addis.
Now you're going to sit there and tell me
that says this didn't influence Christianity.
Get the f*** out of here.
You're, you're full.
These Christian scholars in the SBL,
Society of Biblical Literature,
full of s***.
They know this and don't care.
So does this say anywhere, anywhere on this page where,
what part in history and the human time,
or the history, the timeline of history where this started?
200 BC.
Where does it say that here?
Well, that's when they,
that's when they imported the God to Rome.
And by the way, yeah,
if you read the source that actually has the calendar,
the guy who wrote that, it was living probably in this,
I don't remember when exactly, but yeah,
this is, this was a festival that started the writing
in the fourth century.
Yeah, that's when he's writing this though.
He's a Christian.
Okay.
Describe the basic multi-day structure of the festivals
as it relates to the myth of Sibley and Addis.
But so, yeah, that's,
but that's when the Christians are writing about this.
That's when the Christians are writing about it.
If you look at the importation of the cult of Sibley
happens in 204 BCE.
Click on Sibley.
Yeah.
Click on Sibley.
Or that's where you're going to find it.
Very bottom.
All right, right there.
Okay, Sibley.
God, this is a lot of work to figure out.
Yeah, it is.
It is.
No, you're asking good questions.
Look, look, right there.
205 BCE.
Keep going down.
Oh yeah, the very bottom.
Okay.
In Rome, Sibley became known as the magnum mater,
the great mother.
A Roman state adopted and developed in particular,
in a particular form of her cult
after the Sibley and Oracle in 205 BCE.
That's when they started doing this thing.
Recommended her conscription as a key religious ally
in Rome's Second War against Carthage 218 to 201 BCE.
So.
That's when they imported her cult.
Okay, in 205 BCE.
Yeah.
Yeah, wow.
And then they were writing about it at 300 AD.
Yeah, but that's that Christian source
is the source that we have to go off.
Right.
That's how it was early.
We have to go through the Christians for almost everything.
And they kept, so they kept repurposing this ritual.
Sure.
Throughout, throughout, from there up until Christianity.
That's when it becomes a Roman religion in 204 BCE, 205.
I thought it was 204.
Wow, dude.
That's when they start doing that.
That's when the rituals all start.
Can you find any sort of picture or illustration
of that ritual, like on images?
Yeah, if you type in Addis tree, you'll see there is a,
someone drew, someone from that time period drew something on this.
Yeah, like there.
Wow.
Yeah.
But there's a little line on the mission.
This was a Phrygian religion before Roman religion.
And they're hanging, there's they're hanging things
from this pine tree.
See, it looks like a little Christmas tree.
By the way, the Phrygians, the Phrygians
go back to the, they're from Anatolia.
That's an ancient rite that goes back to the Hittites.
They worship the great mother in the Hittite period, Bronze Age.
So that's an, her, I don't know how, when Addis comes in,
I would say probably around, probably sometime in the Iron Age.
But in the Bronze Age, before that, the Simile,
or Kubaba, they called it back then.
That's how old it is.
She was worshiped by the Hittites, Kubaba.
What is the, isn't there a relationship between Christmas
and the Amanita, Muscaria mushroom?
Yeah.
Yeah, they said that because under pine trees is where.
This is what John Allegro wrote about, I think.
If you, yeah, this is actually true.
Pine trees naturally have
Amanita, Muscaria grow underneath them for some reason.
There's some sort of symbiotic relationship
between pine trees and the growth of Amanita, Muscaria.
So I'm sure this call had something to do with that.
Like, I'd be surprised if it didn't.
Are you familiar, are you familiar with the John Allegro,
the sacred mushroom in the crowd?
What do you think about, what do you think about that?
It's interesting. It's fascinating.
He thought that, I guess he was like the expert
on the Dead Sea Scrolls or something.
He dedicated his life to translating the Dead Sea Scrolls.
I didn't know that. I didn't know that.
No, I like this, I like his work.
I think it's fascinating stuff.
Yeah, I know.
He, I guess his conclusion was that it was all based on
ancient fertility cults and eating mushrooms.
But again.
I don't think it's all based on that,
but I think there is a layer of that going on,
especially when you look at these other groups
that I've mentioned that have these rituals going on.
There is something going on with that.
Right.
What does this say?
On the symbolic relationships with many trees,
including pine, oak, spruce, fir, birch, and cedar,
commonly seen under,
okay, this is the anemoneed and miscaria,
forms underneath these trees.
They grow underneath the pine trees.
Yeah.
They always, whenever you go to like on top of some mountain
that has a lot of pine trees,
you will find anemoneed and miscaria underneath them.
Mm-hmm.
That's like a, everyone knows that.
Dude, there's so much to this.
Yeah. It's a lot of, it's crazy.
How do you know all this, dude?
From reading.
From reading.
Do you just non-stop reading texts?
I like to read.
I like to read.
Like, you know, I like to, like,
that's why even, even coming here,
I'll sit in Florida.
I'm sit at the beach and just read, read texts.
I'm reading, uh, uh, right now I have a text from
Carl Jung, who co-read, wrote a book with Carl Carini.
It's like from like 1940.
And they're writing about the great,
writing about Demeter and Persephone and Dionysus,
the Ellusinian mysteries.
So I was reading last night.
Really?
Yeah.
Um, just to keep going through this list, though.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that, those are the Ophites.
That's what, that whole thing that you just went through
with Easter is mind-bending.
That's the Nassians.
And they said Jesus was Addis.
So that's how you know there was a connection.
The Nassian preacher says that in his text.
So that, that's even more evidence.
That's why I don't understand why Christians
are, or Christian scholars are so reluctant to even accept that.
There's, there are some that do though.
It's just not the consensus.
Okay.
Like if, I'm David Lewa, PhD.
He thinks there's an influence.
He doesn't think they're like secretly worshiping Addis,
neither do I, but I think they're just drawing
from these motifs, which is like, who cares?
Like, why wouldn't they?
In any other genre of art, there's influencing going on.
Well, the thing is people take it literally, right?
Jesus dying and coming back from the dead three days later.
They literally think that happened.
But how was it literally, how could it possibly be
an event that really happened when it's taking from a,
a tradition?
You would have to say that these, all of these traditions
are prophesying, prophesying Jesus.
That's the only, and by the way, there are,
there is someone who does that.
Eusebius argues that when Eusebius is confronted with all
these motifs and all these other cultures, his responses,
they're just prophesying Jesus.
They're all pointing to Jesus.
That's what he says.
That's his response to that, which is interesting.
It's a, it's a slick response.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, then you have, uh, say the Canites,
the Canites are a group who flip everything on his head.
They're like the, they're the most rebel Christian group
you're ever going to find.
They, they're called, they're named themselves after Cain.
Cain and Knights.
Cain and, well, not Cain and Knights.
Cain and Knights.
Cain and Knights.
So Cain and Abel, everyone knows the story.
Cain's the bad brother, Abel's the good brother.
Cain kills his own brother because he's jealous.
Right.
They call themselves after him.
It's like, he's the good one.
And the reason why they say this is because in the story,
Cain was a tiller of the land.
And he grew fruits and vegetables.
Abel was sacrificing meat.
And Yahweh, Yahweh or Yelda Boeth, they call him,
he accepted the meat offering instead of the plant offering.
And he says, no, he was a tiller of the land.
He was, he was a vegetarian.
He was actually the peaceful one.
So they flip the story on its head.
Then they say that Eve, Eve was, they said Eve was, uh,
griped by God in the garden.
That's one of their doctrines.
He was what by God?
Graped.
I'm not going to say the word, our word.
Oh.
Essaid.
Essaid.
Oh.
So they said that.
And then they say, like they have the whole idea that the,
the Yahweh is the demiurge is evil.
They say Judas was a hero.
Everything that's bad in the Bible, they say is good.
That's, those are the Cainites.
Cainites.
There you go.
Gnostic and anti-nomian sect known as the...
That means like, that means like they're,
they do anything.
That means like, that means Libertine.
It means like they'll do, they'll do whatever they want.
There's no laws.
Identified by many groups as Gnostics of Evil.
Yeah.
That sounds pretty cool.
I'm not kidding.
That's a real group that existed.
That sounds pretty metal.
That's a cool band name for you.
Yeah.
And then you have, then you have the carpal creations.
And the way I would describe the carpal creations is they were,
first of all, they're down in Egypt in Alexandria.
And they had, they ran their group very communistic.
And everybody was equal.
You had to sell your property at the foot, at the door.
And you couldn't, everybody, it doesn't matter if you're rich or poor,
you all were not equal under Christ.
They are ran by this, this married couple,
Carpacarties and Marcellina, who had a son named Epiphanes.
And Epiphanes was like this young prodigy.
He was writing all these amazing texts in his young life.
He died when he was 21.
I forgot how he died.
But he was such a prodigy that they deified him
and they made him equal to Jesus.
So they were like, he became a God.
They were worshiped.
They had his own, he had his own temple and everything
on the island of Keflonia in Greece.
So that's a weird Christian group right there.
When was that group?
Second century.
Second century.
Most of this is second century.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that was like, actually, no, late first two,
because Carpacarties and Marcellina were around
and at the end of the first century,
when they had that, actually, the sources say
that they had their child Epiphanes on the year 100.
Okay.
So it was right around, right at the turn of the century.
This is what this is going on.
Okay.
Which by the way, this is the beginning of Christianity.
The Gospels aren't written until after 70 anyway.
So we're talking, this is the first generation
of Christians we're talking about.
Yeah.
This is not the second generation,
or this is the first generation of Christians.
Well, actually, if we're gonna get technical about it,
it is the second generation because we don't really,
we don't, we don't know anything about, like,
the, who were the first, who was actually around
following Jesus around?
We just know, like, oh, one of them's name is Peter,
and we know James is his brother.
That's crazy, but we don't really know
what they were doing and what it was like.
We know Paul came after.
Paul never met Jesus in person.
These people claim to know Paul.
By the way, the next guy I'm gonna name, Marcion.
This is, this is a perfect segue into Marcionism.
So Marcion is this character.
He's one of them, our characteristics of all.
One of the big leading of the Gnostic Christians.
And his father, Philologous, was one of the 70 disciples
of Jesus.
Okay.
So his father met Jesus according to the sources.
And the reason why I think this is true,
because the people that are saying this hate Marcion.
So why would they make that up?
Why would they give him that point?
There's no, so this, this to me,
that's like a solid, this, this is true.
When the people who hate Marcion
are willing to admit that his father was this guy, Philologous.
And one of, Philologous is considered counted as one of the 70
in Luke, what that says.
He dispersed the 70 disciples out to the world
to go preach the gospel.
He was one of those guys according to these sources.
And he became-
What does that mean though?
It means he's like chosen by Jesus to start his church,
to go bring my church to another city and start it up.
And where he went was Sonope,
which is at the coast of the Black Sea.
And that's where Marcion grew up.
So the story lines up.
Marcion was his son.
Marcion became very influential in the Christian church.
And by the way, Marcion, the Marcionites,
when Kelsis names the great church,
he lists Marcion in the church.
So this is first half of the second century.
They're still not heretics yet.
They're still part of the church at this time.
That's how we know that they weren't just heretics off the bat.
They became heretics later when the church wanted to decide,
what are our doctrines?
What do we believe in?
So they ended up making him a heretic long after he's dead.
So in his lifetime, he was never a heretic.
After he dies, 50 years later, he becomes a heretic.
So anyways, this guy goes to Rome.
He was like a millionaire,
like an equivalent of a millionaire at that time.
And he brings all this money to Rome
and like tries to like gain influence in Rome.
And then it didn't, for some reason it didn't go well.
He ends up leaving Rome, going back to Asia Minor
and that ends his days out there.
But the Romans, the Roman church didn't accept him
the way he wanted to.
He tried to go there with all his money and influence
and try to become the boss.
Like it didn't work.
So that's the Marcionites.
Marcion was in one of these Christians who said that
the Old Testament God was the demiurge and he's evil.
He was one of those Christians.
So that's how, it's crazy
because the son of one of the 70 disciples is saying this.
It makes you think, was this doctrine really part of the Christian?
It might have been part like normal Christian mentality
to view the Old Testament God as not the same as the God
that Jesus is the son of.
And it reflects the attitude of the Christians against the Jews.
Is there like the Jews aren't real, where the real is real?
That's their mentality.
To be saved in Christ is to be Israelite to them.
To be of Jew, it means nothing.
And they'll say that Jesus even says,
Christ, or God can raise up sons of Abraham
from these stones if he wants.
Who cares who your father is?
Like he didn't care about genealogies or who was really Jewish.
He cared about the, you know, what was in their heart
rather than what their flesh was.
Anyways, that's a Christian idea.
Then you get this group called the Elkicites.
These were Jew, and it is,
now we're going to the opposite.
The Elkicites are actually Torah observant.
So they actually follow the laws of Moses.
And they don't think the Old Testament God is evil.
They think he is the real God.
But this is where it gets crazy.
The Elkicites thought that Jesus became,
maybe after he died or something,
but he became a 96 mile wide angel.
So he's a giant angel in the sky.
It can like fly around and stuff.
96 miles.
That's what the math translates to in English.
I forgot.
I don't know what they say in the Greek,
but if you translate it, it becomes,
they say he's 96 miles.
Then he had a sister called the Holy Spirit,
who was just as big.
What was the name for those giants back then?
There was a name for it.
Nephilim.
Nephilim, yes.
Maybe he became a Nephilim.
And then obviously the Anunnaki plays into that.
Yeah, Anunnaki and the Nephilim, yeah.
I want to get to that.
We're going to put a little bookmark on the Anunnaki.
We'll talk about that in a second,
because it's interesting stuff.
Okay.
I mentioned the Parate,
and they believe that all the pagan gods are just demons.
Remember, we talked about that.
Right, right.
Then there's a group called the Montanus.
Oh, no, let me get them for that.
Stick on the Jewish ones, the Ibnites.
The Ibnites claim that they're the Church of James,
the brother of Jesus.
That's what they say.
They're located in Jerusalem.
So they have some legitimacy here.
There might be some truth to this,
that these other, they claim to be the real Christians.
They think, they don't think Jesus is God.
They think he's just a prophet.
They don't think he's divine.
He's just another man.
He was the Messiah though, and their idea,
the Messiah isn't divine.
He's just a chosen, anointed one of God.
Okay.
But they think Paul's a liar,
and they reject all Hellenism and Greek stuff.
They're just sticking to the Jewish stuff.
Okay.
That's the Ibnites.
From the branch of the Ibnites,
there's a group called the Nestorians.
And Jesus was called a Nestorian.
So it's like, hmm.
And I, apparently, John the Baptist
is one of these Nestorians.
And the Nestorians end up becoming
another group called the Mandians.
What do you classify all these groups as?
Like what, what, what?
They're just different sects of Christianity.
Roman cults?
Roman cults.
Yeah, cults.
Okay, just cults.
Just cults.
Okay.
But this is normal.
Like even, even Christianity today
is all divided up into different,
even within the Catholic Church,
you have Franciscan.
And this is how different groups,
different monasteries had different names
named off of Saint.
Okay.
So it's not like even Christianity today
within Orthodoxy still does this.
Like Baptists.
Your name, your name is basically named off your leader.
Like whoever you're leading, like, you know,
Montenis, the guy named at Montenis,
that's his name.
But the Nestorians become the Mandians
and they're led by John the Baptist.
They think John the Baptist was greater than Jesus.
And they're, they're like the Evianites
in the sense that they don't think Jesus was a God.
He was just the Messiah.
Okay.
But they think John the Baptist
had a greater purpose than Jesus.
And they are still around today, the Mandians.
You could find them in Israel to this day.
Really?
They're still there.
They still believe the same stuff.
They still think Jesus was there.
But John the Baptist was a greater.
They still exist today.
They're called the Mandians.
And Manda.
Are there a lot of them?
Manda is Arabic for the word gnosis.
It means knowledge.
So they're called Gnostics in Arabic, Mandians.
Oh, wow.
Manda means knowledge.
So there's, there's, there's,
and they're in Israel today.
They still exist.
That's bizarre.
Yeah.
So they claim to be the real ones, the Nestorians.
Jesus was a Nestorian.
And that's where the one, that's actually one of his titles too.
Jesus the Nestorian, Nazarian.
That's what they call themselves.
So yeah.
Anyways, that is a group called the Montanist.
They're led by a guy named Montenis.
And his big thing was, his big focus in his cult was
speaking in tongues, prophesying.
There are people who do think psychedelics were involved
because they were like really into the spirit stuff.
But the, I don't know if the sources actually say that,
but like they're into the whole like becoming inspired
by the Holy Spirit and prophesying, speaking in tongues.
And their central book was the book of Revelation.
And in fact, Tertullian was one of the church fathers.
He's called the father of Latin Christianity.
He's the big saint in the Catholic church.
He was baptized by this heretic, Montanist.
He called himself a Montanist before he became a Catholic.
So this is how close we are.
Like there's, they're so close together in the beginning.
And then they become far apart as time goes on.
As we look back, we're like, oh, they were heretics.
They were not.
But in this time period, they were all together.
They were all Christians together.
So this guy, Montanist, led a group of like,
I guess they were women.
The two of the names we have are Prisca and Maximilo.
And they were, they were basically like the Oracle of Delphi.
They were prophesy and tell you your future.
And like Revelation was considered heretical at first.
They didn't accept the book of Revelation until like 415 AD.
That's when they included Revelation into the canon of the Bible.
I think it's like 415 or something.
But it's 5th century.
The book of Revelation before the 5th century was almost considered heretical.
Most of the church fathers didn't want it to be part of the Bible.
It was because of this sect, the Montanist,
because it was their central book.
And they said, no, those are their heretics.
We can't have their book be part of our book.
But it's in her Bible today.
They made it in.
So Revelation, yeah, that was a Montanist text.
And then it wasn't, didn't like before 100,
like when Christianity started to become like really popular mainstream,
weren't like women a big part of the religious leaders.
Just look at the text.
You've got Martha and Mary and all their whole entourage of women that are there.
And it says in the text, there's a whole bunch of them there.
Yeah, yeah, of course.
Yeah, like women were performing rituals.
They were like the heads of these cults,
running cults, and they were like a big part of the myth and the mystery.
And then like around 100, 200, I'd say, around 200.
They just around 200 is when they start getting,
they start saying no more women leading stuff.
And then so here's, here's a crazy part about that.
Why do you think that was?
I don't know.
Just became really patriarchal around 200.
Irenaeus and Hippolytus are one of the big leaders of this.
And Irenaeus is famous for pushing bishop authority over all else.
And this is where the whole Gnostic schism happens under Irenaeus.
He writes against the heresies.
And he says that these Gnostics believed in personal revelation from God.
And Irenaeus and Hippolytus believed in no,
not personal revelation from God.
The bishops lead the church, bishop authority, bishop, bishopic authority.
Right.
And that was what he preached.
And then so here's where it gets crazy.
The seven authentic epistles of Paul,
that all the scholars agree, even Bart Ehrman,
agrees that these seven epistles are written by one person who's probably Paul.
There's no other reason, nothing, it was Paul.
But then the other four or five epistles that are written by someone else in Paul's name,
the question is when did the, who wrote those?
And why are they saying that it's Paul?
Who's lying, right?
Some people think the church will say it was one of Paul's secretaries.
It really was Paul, but someone else was writing for him.
Right.
But here's the thing, Marcian had a canon before anyone else.
Marcian is the first Christian to put together a New Testament.
He took the seven authentic letters of Paul.
He only had seven epistles and there were,
it happened to be the seven authentic ones that scholars agree are authentic.
It just happens to line up that way.
The only, the two other texts that aren't included in Marcian's New Testament is,
is, what is it called?
Timothy, first Timothy and second Timothy and Titus.
Those three epistles that are supposed to be written by Paul are not written by Paul
and they're forged.
This is what scholars think.
And they happen to be not in Marcian's New Testament.
Now check this out.
What, wouldn't, wouldn't, what, what do you know?
What's in this text?
Talks about Bishop's authority over everything else.
So people think, and I, I, myself included, I think first Timothy and second Timothy were written
by someone, maybe Irenaeus himself wrote it.
In Paul's name, to give it the authority to say,
look, even Paul says Bishop authority over all else.
And then what, what else is in first Timothy?
First Timothy has anti-nostic rhetoric in there.
Saying, these people call it false gnosis.
It's false gnosis.
It's in, that's in first Timothy.
And no other, and even, even of the other seven authentic epistles of Paul,
he says gnosis is good.
So what, what did Paul change his mind?
Or what really happened is they produced these texts
because they wanted the doctrine to align
so that the bishops could have the authority.
Right.
So right, right around 280, you start to see this push towards bishops, bishops, bishops.
And no more personal salvation, no more speaking in tongues,
no more, uh, bach, mania stuff going on, Holy Spirit, you know, all that stuff.
That goes, that, that becomes heretical.
So that's what happened with that.
So the next thing I wanted to get into is,
I'm talking about the Valentinians.
The Valentinians, man, they had this crazy Pythagorean system
where they do, Jamatria, have you heard of that?
Uh-uh.
It's when like certain, it's when names in Hebrew or Greek
are given a numerical value.
So Nero is 666, right?
Right.
So there is 24 letters in the Greek alphabet, right?
Okay.
Jesus's Jamatria is 888.
Now what do I mean by that?
They take the letter for a Yeshua in Hebrew,
or I'm sorry, Jesus in Greek and they give it,
every letter has a numeric thing.
This is well known.
Jamatria was the thing they did in the first century.
So Greek in Greek, Jesus equals 888.
Now if you go down, if you go down,
that's how you do the math, Jesus 888.
Christos is 1480, right?
That's cool.
The one that's important is Jesus though.
So keep going down.
I just want to show you something.
It's pretty fascinating.
What is this?
Yeah, there's a lot of people who go way,
way deeper than I do into this.
They'll say like this numbers actually mean something
in the heavens or something.
Oh yeah, that's a sacred geometry.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And there might be some truth to that,
but the one I wanted, the one that fascinates me the most
is in the Greek alphabet, there are eight different categories,
or there's three categories in the Greek alphabet.
Maybe it's not on this list.
Keep going down.
888, keep going.
That's a tiny type.
Yeah.
Jesus, this is 888.
This is it.
Oh wait, is this it?
Hebrew and the ancient alphabet
and the numerical values of the letters.
Yeah, keep going down, keep going down.
Sound like Amon when you say that.
Keep going down, keep going down.
You should just develop, you should just like.
Oh, there we go, that's it, go up, go up, go up.
All right, so there are, see how there's three lines of Greek?
Yeah, what?
There's an elf.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
So there's three, the first three rows are, or horizontal rows are Greek.
So what this guy, what the Valentinians put together,
Valentinus put this together.
He was saying that since Jesus is the logos, he's the word of God,
his name in Greek also happens to be 888,
which represents the eight, eight, and eight categories of Greek.
There's eight, it's called like half two ads or something,
eight odd duads and eight, I can't remember the other one.
But if you know Greek, you'll know exactly what I'm talking about.
There's three different groups of types of letters in Greek.
Okay.
And so it's eight of one, eight of another, eight of another,
which is exactly what his democracy is.
So a lot of mythicists will say, look, he didn't exist, see, they made it up.
It's like, well, Jesus was a popular name in the first century anyway.
So you could, it could have just happened that way.
But yeah, that's why it's, that's the Valentinian 888 democracy.
Who was 666?
Nero.
Nero was 666.
Nero was 666.
And then the reason why we know it's Nero,
because the way it explained, the way it explains him in his text,
it lines up to be Nero.
They say there's five kings before him, two after, which is what,
and ends up being the Flavians, whatever, Vespasian and Titus.
And then, and then Domitian came,
Domitian's the next coming of Nero, right?
He's the next beast that comes up.
So the numbers line up, the story lines up, but then it gets,
then there's a slam dunk on this, why it's Nero.
And the Latin version of the Bible, they change it to 616,
because the Latin Dramatria is 616 for Nero.
So it's like, it has to be Nero.
The only way around that, if it's not Nero,
was that the Latins, whoever wrote it in Latin,
thought it was Nero and then changed it to that.
So that's the, it's like, it's probably Nero.
Right.
But that's, that's the Valentinians.
They do all this crazy numerology, Pythagorean.
They consider themselves to be Pythagorean Christians.
Okay.
And they, they were the first group to have a Trinity.
They, they called it a triad,
which is what Trinity is in Greek, it's triados.
And it's God the father, who's the noose, which means mind.
Christ, the son, who's the logos.
And then Sophia, who is Zoe.
And you're like, who's Zoe?
Eve.
It could be, that's the name of Eve in Greek.
But in John's gospel, John one,
if you want to look up John one in Greek, you can do this.
This is actually kind of fascinating.
This will be cool.
John one in Greek.
John one in Greek.
There you go.
Interlunary Bible.
If you look, it says, you know, an arcade,
and no logos, Kai, or logos, and pros,
tone, they own, right?
Kai, as you keep going down.
And the third, on the fourth verse, it says,
in him life, in him was life, and the life was the light.
Now in Greek, you don't, you didn't hear that right there,
because it's in English.
But in Greek, and the word for life is Zoe.
So it says, and ought to Zoe.
Right.
Hen Kai, a Zoe, hand to foes.
What did I just say?
In him was the life, and the life was the light of the world.
So John one contains inside of it, the Trinity.
Logos, Zoe, and God are all one with God.
And even says the first page in the beginning was the logos.
If you go up again.
Yeah, keep going to the top.
And RK and the logos.
In the beginning was the logos, the word.
So John one, one is the logos.
John one, four is Zoe, but they're both God.
So the Valentinians are saying, look, our Trinity is right there.
And by the way, even today, they use,
they say the Trinity is John.
That's where you get the Trinity.
Oh, wow.
So the Trinitarian fathers are adopting this.
They're doing it differently than the Pythagoreans.
Right.
They take the whole Sophia thing out, and they just say Christ is life.
They kind of simplify it.
But that's where it comes from.
The oldest Trinity is a Gnostic idea.
That's wild, dude.
Greek is just like.
Greek is amazing.
Greek is incredible.
When you translate Greek, you change it.
You cannot contain the essence of the original Greek.
It's impossible.
Hillman was saying that when you understand Greek
and you really start to learn Greek,
he's like, it just opens your mind.
It does.
It changes the way you think.
It's magic.
It changes the way you think.
It's the greatest language ever.
It really is.
Especially classical Greek.
Yeah.
It's different than modern Greek.
Right, obviously.
It's just something magic about it, man.
It really is.
What is it about?
How much have you learned?
It expands the mind, man.
It really does.
A lot.
I've been doing it.
If Amon's been taking me through these workbooks for a year and a half to two years now.
Is it just the words like the one we were talking about earlier,
where it was like fear of God.
You have like these words that are God.
Theosabase.
All these technical terms that mean a lot of things.
There's a lot of that stuff going on.
Yeah.
Greek's amazing.
So the Valentinians had this idea of there being a triad.
Then this is where it gets crazy.
Bacillides was a late first century Christian.
And this where you get that logo, the Abraxas logo,
the one that's on my channel.
With the guy with the serpent legs and the head of Abraxas.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
That's Abraxas.
Now this guy Bacillides, who claims to be a student of Simon Magus.
And he says that Christ's father was Abraxas.
And Abraxas has a Germatria, as we just talked about, of 365.
Abraxas, Germatria in Greek equals 365.
Which means he equals every day of the year.
He also, he has seven letters in his name.
Which is the seven letters of a week.
And if you multiply, this is where it gets really complicated.
If you multiply the constantness of the vowels, you get 12 for the 12 months.
He's a calendar God.
He's a time God.
And then his head is of a bird, gives him air.
His body gives him land and his snake legs give him water.
So he's an elemental God.
So he represents the cosmos itself.
He represents reality itself.
And he's saying that this Abraxas,
whatever you think of God, it's this.
He's this reality itself.
And he says Christ is the son of reality.
It's like Christ is the son of this God, Abraxas.
He calls it the Megas Archon in Greek, which means great ruler.
And then by the way, the Basilidians, they're named after him.
According to Clement of Alexandria,
early second century writer, or a late second century writer,
he says that the birthday of Christ, which is on January 6th,
before it was on December 25th, it was January 6th.
By the way, in Eastern Orthodoxy, they still celebrate January 6th
as the birthday of Christ.
That's why you have 12 days of Christmas.
December 25th to January 6th is 12 days.
Okay.
And to this day, Eastern Orthodoxy still celebrates the birthday of Jesus on January 6th.
Clement of Alexandria says that.
That's what the Russians, the Russians celebrate.
Russians do too.
Clement of Alexandria says that the first people to decide this date was facilities.
He was the first Christian to declare that Christ was born at the end of the winter solstice.
Epiphanius, the guy we talked about earlier,
he says that January 6th turns out to be the birthday of two other gods too.
This is where it gets crazy.
He says, one of them's name is Ion.
Ion is like a version of Osiris and Dionysus rolled together.
He's like this late, he's like this first century synchronistic god.
You can look them up if you want.
And so they said his birthday was on January 6th.
He was born of a virgin called the Cori, which is the name of Dionysus' mother, Cori.
That's Persephone's title.
It's also a title for Kyberle too.
She has the title of Kyberle.
And then check this out.
And this is all, Epiphanius says the same thing here.
He says another god named Dusharis.
I don't know, it's A, I'm sorry, it's A-I-O-N.
Yeah, it's confusing.
There's a lot of words that sound the same in Greek.
Yeah, that's it, Ion.
The Hellenistic deity associated with time.
Yep. Now, if you go down in this,
I think it says something about the birthday here too.
Where it says, look for Epiphanius.
Go up a little bit.
Oh, you're going to find it right here?
Yeah.
How do you spell Epiphanius?
P-H, P-H.
E-P-H.
Oh, E, I'm sorry, E-P-I-P-H.
E-P-I-P-H, Epiphanius.
There it is.
Epiphanius says Alexandria, Ion's birth.
The Cori, the virgin, was celebrated on January 6th.
Oh, shit.
That's the same day as Christ, dude.
You got this god, this pagan god, born of a virgin on January 6th, the same day as Jesus.
Isn't that crazy?
They're just taking everything from previous shit.
And so guess what, you ever heard of Petra?
No.
Look up Petra.
Oh, the city?
Yeah.
In Arabia, I've been here.
I went to Israel for like a whole month,
and then I went to Egypt too, and Petra.
Really?
I did a whole tour.
Look, click on that building.
Oh, look at that.
Click on that building on the top left.
Yeah.
Can you zoom in on that building at all?
See that guy in the middle?
In the very, very, very middle.
Yeah, up top.
Yeah, this is perfect.
You'll be able to see it.
If I can...
Up.
Where?
Yeah, right there.
That guy?
That's Dionysus.
He's holding a thorysus, Steph?
Theorysus?
He's holding the pinecone stuff.
But they don't call him Dionysus down in Arabia.
In Arabia, it's Dusaris.
D-U-S-A-R-E-S.
That's him.
He's also born on January 6th from a virgin named Kubaba.
It's Kaibali.
It's like all comes first circle.
That's why I'd like...
It's...
There's so much lining.
What do modern Christian scholars say about this?
They just say,
ah, they're all borrowing from each other.
Some of it's coincidence.
They just kind of wave it off.
How do they borrow from something that happened hundreds of years in the future?
You can't borrow from something that happened in the future.
Yeah.
And by the way, epiphanias is later.
So a lot of people will say epiphanias is saying that they're copying the
Christians, but it's like that's not...
No.
They don't even...
I don't know.
It's just so bizarre to think that.
Because these gods are worship in the first century.
So they're already around before Christianity.
So the idea that they would change up their own doctrines because of Christianity
is kind of weird to me.
And it's possible.
I'll admit it's possible.
No, I understand what you said.
You studied your way out of Christianity.
Yeah.
This is what this is stuff I'm discovering.
Wild.
Yeah.
So there's that.
He's another god named Jisaris, born on January 6th, and he's got a virgin mother.
What else?
Let's see.
I think I have one more.
Oh, the Simonians.
The Noetians are early group.
I'm just going to real quick go on them.
They believe that Christ and Father were the same god.
They're the first ones to think that, which is the doctrine that Christians hold today,
that Christ and the Father are both one together.
They were the first group to think that.
There were heretics at first for that idea.
And then later on, it became doctrines.
It's weird.
But the Simonians are the wildest of all them.
And they're named after Simon Magus.
And they were set up in Rome.
They're actually from Samaria.
That's where Simon Magus was from.
That's where he met Peter.
And in the book of Acts, Peter baptizes him.
He was a magician.
Remember in the text?
I don't know if you read that.
Simon Magus was a magician, pulling tricks on people.
Yeah, you can look him up.
I remember him from the saint.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Simon Magus.
Yeah.
So here's the story about him.
This is a crazy story.
This is the last Christian group I want to talk about.
So Simon Magus, he gets saved by Peter or whatever.
He ends up going to Rome with Peter to start the Church of Rome.
And they have a schism, apparently, between the two of them.
And Simon's followers deify him and say that he's the Son of God.
He's the Logos.
Simon Magus.
Simon Magus is what they say about him.
According to all of his detractors, people that hate him
are saying that Epiphanias, Apolithis, all those guys.
They're all right about this.
This is all in their sources.
So what happens is, they say that he is Zeus and his wife, Helen, is Minerva.
And they're like, they're given titles of these gods.
There's a statue in Rome of an old Etruscan god called Semosancus.
It's super old, bronze age god.
It must have been still sitting there in the first century
because they looked at this statue.
And because the letters Semosancus almost sound like Simon,
they're like, that's you.
This is a prophecy of you.
And this statue became Simon Magus' statue.
And he became this god, Semosancus, this old Etruscan god.
And then it gets even crazier.
He ends up having, this is what the text says.
He actually starts having a magic duel with Peter, the apostle Peter,
the first bishop of Rome, the one that the church is named after St. Peter.
He has a magic duel with him.
And Simon Magus was like, you know what, Peter, let's do this, bro.
He said, I know I have more power than you.
I know I have more Holy Spirit than you do.
Let's have a showdown.
Oh, is this where he levitates?
He levitates up in the sky.
And then Peter goes, all right, bro, wax him down and kills him.
This is what the story says.
So that's how Simon Magus dies.
He has a magic duel with Peter and Peter wins.
And that's when, I don't know when that story was written.
It's probably in the middle of the second century when they wrote that story.
I just had this guy in the podcast not too long ago named Jeffrey Kreipel.
Yeah.
He's a, he's a religious scholar and he basically,
he wrote a whole book about like ancient levitation.
Yeah.
And he told you about Simon Magus?
Well, he was talking about basically like all these priests and these people
levitating in antiquity, like just recounts and writings of people levitating.
And there were so much of it.
There's a lot of it.
A guy from an aerospace company, I think it was JPL, like hit him up.
And he's like, yo, we want to learn about this levitation for like aerospace.
And he like ended up doing some sort of a talk, this, this talk.
They were taking it, they're taking it seriously.
They brought him to MIT and they had him talk about it because they're
trying to figure it out for modern aerospace.
Dude, this is so wild.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
It's super crazy.
So, okay.
So what is, what is the connection between or the misconceptions between the Nephilim and the Anunnaki?
So the Anunnaki come from the Sumerian and Babylonian texts.
Which was, those texts came from when?
Like 3000 BC.
3000 BC.
Yeah.
Like this is the oldest text that exists in the world.
Like there's nothing older than Sumerian text.
I mean, there's, there's stories that predate these texts, but they're not written down.
This is the, Sumer is the first place where we get written text.
And they're in Cuneiform and Akkadian and they write about these Anunnaki and there's these,
these group of gods that, and sometimes they're in the underworld and some stories,
they're in the heavens.
Depends on what story you're looking at.
Most of the time it's in the underworld gods, which is a misconception.
People think that these are coming from above, but most of the texts describe them as in the
underworld.
But there are some texts that do describe them coming from the heavens.
There is some credibility there, but they get, they get lumped in with the Nephilim
because the Nephilim are also described as these.
Oh, these are the, these are the, these are the tablets.
Those are the old ancient Sumerian tablets.
Yeah.
They're from like 3000, 2000 BC, somewhere in between 2500 BC.
Yeah.
Super old.
Now check this out, right?
So the Nephilim are these like fallen gods.
Sometimes they're called giants because Nephilim can be a, can mean giant in Greek,
but Nephilim also can mean to fall.
So depending on how you read it, it could be fallen ones or giants.
And there's a two different translations for that.
And some texts are the fallen ones and some texts, they're the giants.
Or maybe they're both, maybe that's a pun, you never know.
But they get lumped in with the Anunnaki because the story is very similar as the Anunnaki.
In the sense that Anunnaki, there are stories of Anunnaki being cast out from the presence of Enlil.
And they end up serving other purposes.
And that's how they get, so there's a very similar story happening between the two,
which I think is, there's some credibility to that.
But the, this is where it gets crazy.
How the hell do you translate that?
They can stick and read that though.
People can read that.
Looks like chicken scratch.
Yeah, it does.
Samuel Noah Kramer translated all these texts that I'm about to describe.
And one of the texts that mentions the Anunnaki,
there's a guy named, oh, what's his name?
Utnapishtim.
There's a couple of different flood stories.
One of them is called Artahasis.
That's another guy.
And the other one's called the Epic of Gilgamesh.
Yes.
And this guy, so depending on which story you're getting at,
the guy who's whoever's in the flood story, he survives a flood.
That's Gilgamesh, I think it is.
Well, Gilgamesh, that's the name of the story,
but the guy's name is Artahasis who survives the flood.
Okay.
And he survives this flood and at the end of the story,
he lets off a dove and a raven and waits for seven days for him to come back.
This is exactly what Genesis says for Noah.
When Noah is at the end of the flood for 40 days,
he lets off a dove and a raven and waits seven days for them to return.
It's exactly the same.
They're literally borrowing from this story.
So the story of Noah surviving the ark is actually predated by thousands of years
in this Sumerian story.
So there's two ways of looking at it.
You can be critical and say, yeah, this is an ancient story,
an ancient pagan story being repurposed by the Jews.
Or you can say, this is actually so ancient and so true that it shows up in this other story
in the ancient world, depending on which way, how you want to spin it.
Right.
You can make it positive for the Noah's Ark.
Noah's Ark is so true that we find it in another version in a different story.
Or you can say, it's such a retelling of an ancient pagan story
that it can't be true because it's already in its text from
thousand years before Noah was ever talked about.
Right.
Because Noah, there's no mention of Noah until classical period,
Hellenistic period, basically Persian period, if you want to be like,
give him a little bit, maybe Persian period, but there's no mention of Noah before that.
So the story goes that the Anunnaki, the Enlil and Enki created these GGs
who were supposed to terraform the earth and they got tired of working or whatever,
and they created human beings somehow, or they sacrificed a god to create humans,
to be the slaves, to do all this hard work.
Yeah, and Enki, and this is where I get into, this is like,
Enki is this god in the ancient Sumerian stories who, he creates humans,
but he's also like a trickster, and he seems to always defy the will of Enlil.
So he's almost like a proto-Satan character, where he cares about humans,
but when Enlil wants to flood everybody, he wants to kill humans, Enlil,
because he's sick of them.
He wants to flood them out, they're all sinners, they're all dumbasses,
but Enki saves them.
Enki's the one that tells Archer Hossus to build the ark,
because Enlil's going to kill you guys.
He gives him, he wasn't supposed to do that, he defies the will of Enlil.
This also happens in the Greek mythology, when Zeus is fed up with humans,
he wants to send a flood, it's Prometheus who says,
hey, Zeus is going to kill you all.
Prometheus is the creator god, and he's a trickster.
So Prometheus is the Greek version of Enki,
and you can almost say in Judeo-Christianity, it's Satan that's that character.
And Prometheus tried to, I don't know where I'm pulling this information from,
but I feel like I read this somewhere, but Prometheus tried to-
Probably from me and George Oni's talk.
He tried to trick Zeus.
When me and George Oni had our talk about Prometheus,
we talked about this in depth.
Okay.
We went, that's probably where you saw it when I was telling you about George Oni.
George Oni's really into this whole idea of Prometheus is actually Lucifer,
but he's not the evil one.
It's very Gnostic, and it's a very Gnostic idea in the sense that
the good god is actually the bad one, and the bad one is actually the good one.
Right, right.
He's trying to give you the knowledge to save yourself.
And Prometheus wanted to save humanity from Zeus.
From Zeus.
And he tried to trick Zeus, or by-
He just went against his back.
There was some sort of animal that they were having a feast or whatever.
That's another one.
And he tried to trick him by giving him two pieces,
and one of them looked like a bunch of meat, but it was filled with bones,
and he thought Zeus would pick the wrong one.
Yes.
Prometheus, the idea of Prometheus is to teach people
that the gods can be manipulated and tricked in the right circumstances
if you're slick enough to do it.
It's almost like Prometheus represents the tree of knowledge.
Take a bite.
See what happens.
Right.
You know what I mean?
He sentenced him to die a new death every day on a mountain.
He sends him up to the Caucasus Mountains where he's from, and he chains him up.
I wish I had this one, this one book that I have written by Kyle Careni about Prometheus,
where he finds the oldest depictions of Prometheus from Etruscan art, from Greek art,
and he's always depicted with his arms up like this, chain to a rock, like a crucifixion.
Maybe you could find that photo or that image.
I think Christianity is drawing from these motifs,
and then repurposing for different, look at that.
That's how the oldest, look at his beard and everything.
It looks like so Christ-like, you know what I mean?
Wow.
That's Prometheus.
Wow.
And that's the Etruscan spelling of his name.
Yeah, BC.
Yeah, if you go down it says it right there.
There's another one.
There's another one.
That's Prometheus.
That's him being saved by Apollo and Hercules.
Being taken off the craw, or being taken off of his,
see there's the eagle that's biting at his leg.
Oh, check this out too.
Talking about drugs, right?
Medea, the ancient witch Medea.
Yes.
This is what Amon has tattooed on his head, right?
Yeah.
She had a magic potion called Promethea, and it was the blood.
Remember, we're talking about the blood of Christ being magic,
and they're drinking in these Eucharists.
This was happening for Prometheus back in the ancient world.
Well, Prometheus' blood was mixed in a potion by Medea.
The same blood that dripped from him while he was on the rock
was made into a potion that can heal you and make you immortal.
No way.
Yeah.
There's sources for this and everything.
Okay, I mean, I could read the source if you want.
You want to hear it?
You want to hear it?
Christ, yeah.
Yeah.
All right, it's called the magical Promethean herb
from Apollonius of Rhodes, third century BC.
Anyone can look this up.
It says she Medea, third century BC.
She Medea took a magic ointment from her box.
This salve was named after Prometheus.
A man had only to smeared on his body after propitiating the only begotten maiden,
Hecate, with a midnight offering to become invulnerable by sword or fire,
and for that day to surpass himself in strength and daring,
it first appeared in the plant that sprang from the blood-like
ecore of Prometheus in his torment, which the flesh-eating eagle had dropped on the
spurns of the Caucasus.
The flowers, which grew on twin stalks a cubit high, were of the color Corsian saffron,
while the roots, talking about root cutting, that's where you get DMT from, roots,
while the roots looked like flesh that had just been cut.
By the way, root cutters is the name of an ancient,
an ancient sorcerer, they call root cutters, they cut roots to make drugs with.
So these roots have just been cut, and the juice is like dark sap of a mountain oak.
To make the ointment, Medea clothed in black in the gloom of night,
had drawn off his juice in a Caspian shell after bathing in seven perennial streams
and calling seven times on brimo, nurse of youth, brimo, night wanderer of the underworld,
queen of the dead.
The dark earth shook and rumbled underneath the titan root when it was cut,
and Prometheus himself groaned in anguish of his soul.
There it is right there.
There's a bunch of sources on it.
There's a bunch of sources on it too.
That's wild.
Yeah.
You can see, so you can see how, you can see how, look, it's not just that one source,
there's a bunch of them.
Mm-hmm.
If you go, that's the one I just read.
If you go down, look, Propecius, 1st century BC, he mentions it too.
Valerius flakus.
Up a little bit, right there.
Valerius flakus mentions it, Seneca.
So this, that's four different sources that mention this magic blood ointment of Prometheus,
it's called Prometheus.
Wow.
So in Medea.
Yeah.
Medea's the one who made it.
So what do you make of the connections of the Anunnaki to aliens by Zachariah Sitchin?
Zachariah Sitchin is famous for that.
A lot of people are running with this now.
They're running with it.
Saying that this, I've had people on this podcast that love that idea.
I mean, oh, look, I'm not, I can't read Sumerian, so I don't know how he got, he's, apparently he can.
Other scholars.
Who's Sitchin?
Yeah, Sitchin can.
Other scholars of Akkadian and say that his translations are sound.
That's what they say.
I'm just saying what they say.
He might be right.
I mean, that's, that's something I want to look more into.
It's a fascinating theory.
And Sitchin's somehow.
I don't just side with scholars on anything.
I look to see what the argument is.
I want to know, are you right?
Does the data support it?
I don't care what the consensus is.
I don't, I look at the consensus because I want to compare it.
I'm always looking at what they're saying versus what the person's challenging them with.
And in the case of Zachariah Sitchin, he says that there's Anunnaki, our fallen
Nephilim, fallen aliens that, and these stories are written about him.
But there's a lot of contention between his translation of the word Nibiru, the planet he
says they came from, which Nibiru was like some sort of planet that was like between Mars and
Jupiter and it somehow got hit and transformed into earth, like something like that.
But I guess like there's a different translation of Nibiru.
Apparently that's not what it meant.
It didn't mean some sort of other planet.
Yeah.
It's like another realm or something, like another heaven realm or something like that.
Yeah.
That's what, that's what they're saying it is.
And Sitchin doesn't think that he thinks it's a planet.
I don't know.
I don't know how, what to say on that.
And he connected it to the pyramids somehow.
Yeah.
I don't know how he got there.
I have to look into what he said to be honest.
But I did talk to my friend, Josh Bowen, who's a, a, a seriologist.
I asked him about this, we did a video on it.
It's got 1.4 million views somehow.
But he says that here's what he, here's where he thinks Zechariah Sitchin trips up.
He says there's a lot of words in Akkadian that sound like it looks like two words together that
sound like it might mean something else.
For example, like we talked about this, how the word butterfly, we know what a butterfly is.
It's a bug that flies around.
But somebody in a different language 5,000 years from now might say, oh, it's butter that flies.
Butterfly.
A stick of butter that flies around.
So he thinks, so this is, this is, this is how he described it to me.
My friend, Josh, he said that Sitchin is doing this a lot.
He sees words and is so some of, some of the stuff that he's translating might actually be there.
But they're saying these words don't really mean that.
They're using different contexts.
Right.
So, yeah.
But hey, look, I'm willing to give it a shake.
If he's, I'll look into it more.
You know, I haven't dug deep into Zechariah Sitchin and the alien thing yet.
Right.
There it is, butterfly boys and girls.
Especially with the latest stories come out about these UFOs and stuff.
Yeah, the government's saying that they're angels now.
Right now might be the time to start looking into that stuff.
They're angelic beings.
They're not saying that a lot of people in the government now are like saying that they are like
Mike Johnson, well, yeah, those people, some of them like deep in the government or like,
I don't know who exactly it is, but the consensus seems to be in like the UFO community that they're
like looking for the next coming of Christ and they're like angels flying around or enlightened
beings that are flying around.
I'm telling you, this is, you know, who's the best person to talk about
close encounters with is George Johnny.
I got to get you introduced with George Johnny.
Here's the, I was the one I was telling you about with who wrote,
he writes about Prometheus.
That's the one I was telling you about.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
But he also wrote a book called Close Encounters and he, he comes at it from a whole different,
because he's a psych or he's a philosophy professor.
Okay.
He knows about all the ancient philosophies.
He's big into Persian history, Prometheus.
He has come that comes out from a whole different angle that makes a lot more sense than what you
normally get.
It was like Ezekiel's wheel too.
Like people, some people think like, oh, Ezekiel was seeing a UFO or a flying saucer or something
like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think he actually writes on that too.
That's the, the, in the, in his book.
But anyways, that's, yeah, that's what I would, that's who you should, I'll show you what he,
who he is and stuff like that.
And who was the Diana Posolka was talking about?
Yeah.
A, some sort of nun, Teresa, some, I forget her name, but there was a, a story she told
about how it was a, a cherub or something.
But the way she described the cherub was like,
depicting of like what we would think of as an alien.
And she, she had, I forget what the name of this, this nun's name.
If you go back into the Diana Posolka episode, you'll be able to.
St. Teresa, maybe?
Maybe it was St. Teresa.
And then she like somehow like.
That was a good episode, but.
Transported to, to New Mexico or something like that.
This was very recent, I think.
Yeah.
Anyways.
But no, Posolka, I see her, I saw her on this channel and I watched her on Lex's show.
Yeah.
She's, seems very brilliant.
Yeah.
She's PhD, I think, right?
Mm-hmm.
So it's like there are credible scholars getting into this stuff that are,
are taking it seriously.
They're not just crazy people.
So I mean, look, I'm open to see what's going on with that.
And that's one of my, my next frontiers to look into.
Yeah.
It's super interesting, man.
All right.
Well, tell people where they can watch your videos on your YouTube channel,
where they can follow you, where they can get in touch with you, all that stuff.
Just look up Gnostic Informant YouTube.
You could follow me on X.
I'm not too crazy on there.
I'm not on there every day.
I try to stay away from all that shit.
But I'm on there.
So you could follow me on X.
I love what you're doing.
Dude, you're, you're so deep into this stuff.
Trying to go so obsessed with this stuff.
Yeah, I love it.
I love it.
It's all I talk about.
It's so cool.
All I talk about is ancient religious stuff.
And you learned about all this in prison?
Oh, that's where I started reading.
Started reading.
When I got out, it was when I really got deeper.
Yeah, you got deeper.
Yeah.
You, you, you.
That's where I started it all.
You fell down this rabbit hole initially.
Yeah.
I had a, I, and after in high school and in my early, actually, no, just at age 20,
was when I really went deep into, I was going down a bad path,
using a lot of substances and drinking a lot and ended up wound up in prison.
But, you know, I was able to clean myself up because of,
I guess you could say going from one addiction to the next.
And now I'm into like ancient texts.
How long were you in prison for?
18 months.
18 months for selling drugs.
Yeah.
Possession.
Yeah.
Possession.
You were, we were talking about a little bit offline.
You were like manufacturing DMT or something.
I had a big DMT phase, but that's after.
Oh, this was after.
Yeah, this was, actually, I gotta say this though,
people talk about all the time how DMT saves their lives and stuff and it does.
That shit rewired my brain and I had a whole phase like 10 years of making DMT a lot,
trying DMT, having experiences that I could wish I could, I can't even,
it wouldn't even give it justice to try to explain it on here.
People who've done it know what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
Like you meet, like meeting entities, having conversations with Brahma,
the God Brahma, that happened to me once.
Yeah.
Wow.
It was nuts.
Wait, it's the trip.
Let's keep talking about it.
Let's do, let's go on Patreon.
This is going on Patreon?
We'll keep talking about shit on Patreon.
So if you want to hear my DMT stories,
you gotta go behind to his Patreon.
That's right.
What's the one?
We're going to Patreon.
Oh, I don't know.
We'll link it below.
All right.
I think it's just Patreon slash Danny Jones.
Hallelujah, motherfuckers.
We're going to Patreon.
Nice.
Good night.
