No really welcome to the concrete podcast today. We got the infamous Omar the director
Academy award-winning hip-hop video director working with works with the likes of plies Kodak black Gucci man and
Pretty much all the biggest names in the game
What's up, dude? How you doing, man? Good. Thanks for having me. Yeah, of course
Down a little bit though cuz I can't yeah. I got 80d man. We're gonna get a cop
We're gonna get a copyright claim on this video too loud
So what's up, dude? How you been? I've been good man. I haven't seen you in a while. Yeah, it's been a minute
The egg beater video you let us shoot the behind the scenes. Yeah, that's the last time
Maybe not I believe so that was crazy though. That was really crazy. You got real high that night, right? Yeah
Oh my god, I did get really hot. Is that it? That was that in downtown Clearwater. We shot he they were shooting the
The video pee-pee was like the first one there and he was rolling blackwoods
Back to back to back to back and I think I hit one like towards the end of the night and then I was just
Fucking done. I did that dude. I was so fucked up. I couldn't even I couldn't even look at a video camera
I had to go home
That's great. Yeah, that was fun. That was a that was a sick video
I like that it turned out pretty good. So so for the for
Pardon my terrible introduction, but for those people who may not know who you are
Give people skip give them the full story for people that may not comprehend
The full the full give me the elevator pitch of Omar Omar the director
Man, this is why I started doing that. So I love I hate elevator pitches, but
I got a cell, you know, I just do you know
Hip-hop videos specifically like the trap genres like really where I believe like I've
You know made a dent. Yeah, if you could say
You know, I added I shoot a direct kind of where you know where most will have so
You're kind of like one of the guy
I mean from my point of view at least you it seems like you're one of the guys
It's more like ominous that kind of like stays in the shadows
You don't really like you don't really put yourself in the spotlight too much
You kind of like try to stay like you're more ominous than the rest of the guys
You seem like I don't know you just seem like more behind you seem a lot of people don't really know what you look like
You post a couple pictures, but
No, you're right about that. I agree
Because it's funny like a lot of people think I'm black
Really? So yeah, you know, like so when they meet me for the first time like they'll either walk right past me or just or not pay attention
Yeah, and it's like hey, you know, I'm Omar. Yeah, and oh shit. Oh, no, man
You've been on set and then I thought you were black, you know, it's funny like what's the craziest time that's at like
I'm gonna tell you like I
Was on FaceTime with Walker Flaka and he's looking right at me and he's like Omar and I was like, yeah, what's up, bro?
Stop and he's like damn. I thought you were black
I you know, da da da da and he really couldn't believe it like he
He goes he was actually kind of upset. I think like I could tell that he's like damn
I what the fuck he wanted you to be black, but it's funny
I mean, I kind of just take like a compliment because I feel like
You know, it's it's like that's not my world, but it's like I've
I think I've like portrayed it and brought it to life in a very particular manner
Yeah, and people from that world like love it. Yeah, you know, that's crazy
So like where where did this whole thing start like like take me back to the beginning?
Like how did you get into doing all this and what what made you want to start making making videos or even rap videos for that matter? I
think I've always wanted to
do
Something like an art, you know, like artistic feel right whether it's like photography or
When I when I look back, I remember like being very young and like trying to like, you know, like steal like my dad's
Camcorder or something or you know, like not stealing but I try to you know use it or just to try to do stuff or yeah
But I think like to answer your question like just like corporate America, you know, I had like a job and all that and just
What were you doing? I was in the financial industry, you know, oh, really? Yeah
and
it's just I
Don't know. I just I just I had this calling like I felt like I needed to do something, you know, yeah
And literally just I just I bought a camera and that's where this all started really. I love I mean, I was I always loved rap music
Yeah, yeah, and I
Was like just watching videos. I was like these videos like suck
Or like, you know, like you like you this is like, you know, like a while ago
This is like before the whole like YouTube thing. Yeah, so like you'd love a song like listen to it forever
And then the like you like you want the video to come out the video comes out like what the fuck was that just let down
Can we cross on? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So so I'm like, you know, so you're like, what the fuck was that like man?
You know, I mean you feel cheated as like a fan or a consumer or whatever. So
That's really why I started doing it
You know, I felt like I could do it better. Where are you originally from?
Like what do you mean? Where are you front? Like where were you born and raised?
Like where were you born or where's your if you want to go back to where your family's from then?
We're tell me like give me like a timeline. So I was born in Pakistan. Okay, you know and
Pretty much grew up in America. Mm-hmm. Well, how well were you when you moved here?
I don't even know to be honest with you
But I know it was probably like third grade or something like that. Did you move here with your parents or by yourself?
Yeah, yeah, no, I moved here with my parents. You did. Yeah. Okay, but you go back to you go ever go back there
Yeah, I try to go back like every couple of years. Yeah, you know, I love to travel
But you got family there. Yeah, all my family's really so it's like very interesting because I don't have any family here
Yeah, it's just in the States like no grant like I never had that like grandparents or cousins or you know, yeah
That's crazy. I remember so I saw your I think it was like a like Instagram story or something like a year ago
And I saw you all this crazy shit in Pakistan. Like what the fuck this dude's like got this like he's rich royal
Pakistani family out in Pakistan. No, man. I
Yeah, I mean, I don't know man. It's like a double-edged sword, right? Yeah, but that's crazy though. That's really cool
Shout out to them. Shout out to all the Pakistani fam, bro. Shout out to Pakistan
They don't have to leave so they don't leave. Let's put it that way. That's right. You know, I mean, that's what's up
Yeah, but but I'm here, you know, so
And I love it like this is where I want to be and came to Florida first or no, so
Like Seattle's I kind of like where I grew up, right? Oh, really? Yeah, and then I went to college in Chicago at DePaul
and
And a lot of people think like oh like he went to the film school there. I wish I did like
Yeah, I remember walking by like the film school and all that like seeing these kids like on their bikes and shit
Just like laughing yeah sad, you know like laughing like ha ha like they're gonna be broke or you know
You know like like with the mentality is it all those you know people don't take it seriously
Yeah, I feel like in our culture for the most part and especially from in my culture
It's like they don't even like really respect like the arts, right?
So and I wish it wasn't like that because I would have probably gotten a really early start. Mm-hmm, you know, yeah
Yeah, yeah, so
Yeah, no, so I I went to DePaul it was actually for business
You know not for film and then through that, you know, I was I was actually able to be a part of this like very interesting
kind of like
Roll, you know the company and they had an opportunity for someone to you know, they needed somebody down in Tampa
Mm-hmm, and I like jump I jumped on it. So so that's when you move down here. Yeah, how old were you then? I
Don't know you're young. I graduated college like I
Want to say kind of late. Okay, that took like some years off and like I traveled and stuff, right, right, right
But I don't even remember man
So you got out of the financial business and you bought a camera, yeah, then what what happened next well
I was still working right so yeah bought a camera
Then you know, it's like you start like taking pictures and stuff. Yeah
And I feel like that was kind of like easy for me
Just to be honest like it was like it wasn't like
Swimming upstream or whatever. All right, so a lot of camera took pictures
Yeah, you put my like Facebook was like big, you know, like a while ago before Instagram
People like would say love it. So I'm like getting all this feedback and I'm like, yeah, you know
Kind of believing my own bullshit at the time, right?
That kind of turned into like, you know, like the video
I mean, it was always about doing video, but as a beginner's like everyone tells you the same shit
Oh, you have to like do you have to be a photographer first?
You have to get your style because you know the labels and the people won't hire you because they want to hire you for your style
And that from like a coming from a business. Yeah background like never made sense to me
Like why would I want to appeal to just one kind of a product line or whatever?
So, you know, whatever videos I remember like I used to like beg my friends to like make videos
You know, I mean like because it's like, you know, I need to like how do you find this stuff to shoot?
You know, so it started from like just oh, it's a Halloween party going on. Okay. I'm just gonna like film my friends
Like yeah getting ready for Halloween and like just whatever and it's actually that video is on youtube
Is it really it's on youtube. It's on my channel. Wow like literally it's on my channel, bro
That's crazy. Yeah, and it was so like how did you transition to shooting like with with like recording artists?
Like who was the first
Who was the first recording artist you the first bit? It's very funny
So there's another co-worker that I had actually at the time and he he you know, he he still is you know manager shout out to him, you know
Jason Johnson is a good guy
He used to manage like some artists or whatever
He's like, hey, you know, you want to like come down to like they were having a show
So whatever like, you know, I want to go see their show in Tampa
And then I actually asked him like, hey, like, you know, could I shoot a video for you guys?
And they weren't like taking me seriously because like one of the artists he had like, you know, he was kind of like
You know, like he was kind of like, you know, like doing this thing like bubbling
He had a deal he had a record deal at the time and he was signed to like some, you know, Grammy winning people
producer guys justice league
really, yeah
and
I remember like chasing chase not chasing him, but I remember like the whole like phone tag thing and yeah
That whole thing
But it actually, you know, it came in fruition. So I drove to Atlanta at the time
To where he was staying and we shot a video
Which was like my first video. Yeah, I remember releasing it like on Christmas
Really?
And it ended up being like one of like the top 30 watched videos on youtube
What?
Yeah, like for that day it was it was insane
And it's it was just like very weird like I remember my mom was in the hospital that day. I was just like was this like
like
pre
World star or was it like when world star was still this is like I think world star was there, but nobody was going on there
Right. Yeah, not like they are now like every video goes on now. Now. It's you know world stars like every
Music tv channel coming into one. I think I don't think people understand that. Yeah, you know, because a lot of people ask me like
Oh, have you been on tv?
Short answers. Yeah
Yeah
Or it's like saying the real answers. I don't give a fuck bitch. I've been on world star. I'm on world star every week
Yeah, it's like saying have you been on radio or you know?
Like I'm on the top of world star every week. So I don't give a fuck about mtv
Right. I've been on mtv too, but it's like world stars all that shit combined into one. Yeah, you know, there's no comparison
That's crazy
When you started shooting like actual hip-hop videos like the kind of stuff similar to what to what you do now
Like where were those people from and like how do they start like hitting you up and and actually like asking you?
Or were you reaching out to them being like, hey, let me shoot your video. This is the stuff I've done before
Like how did you how did you get those connections? It was really it was some real like grassroots grinding like straight up like
You know
Obviously, I already had like some work I had done
It wasn't like famous people or whatever however you want to say it
Yeah, I felt like it was good music and I felt like we had good videos, you know, so
I actually what I would do is relax in an emails or no fuck all that bullshit, bro like
I'm gonna tell you exactly what I did actually
You know, there's a festival in Atlanta. It's called a 3c. It's like I want to say outside of south by southwest
It's like one of the bigger ones. Yeah, you know, I want to south by southwest
This is like ipad days ipad, you know, whatever
Like when it was like, you know cool to have one, but I was like, how do I use this shit to my advantage?
I put my director's reel on the ipad
Okay, I went out there all these guys were there like the rappers their managers the fucking people from the labels
Yeah, and I would go like I would see one in passing
Like back to walker-flocker. I ran into him at the gas station
There talked to him showed him my he's pumping his gas and it's Bentley
I'm like, hey, you know, walker-flocker. Check me out. I mean, you know, shoot videos. He's you know, I press play. I'm showing him
You know, just back to the business thing trying to be efficient like here. Look
10 seconds 10 seconds in he's like, no bro turn that shit off like I already I get it like yeah, you shoot my video like stop
Really, you know
That's the first time you met him. That's the first time I met him
Um
And actually I never shot his video. No, and then we we actually reconnected like
Five years later and we shot a video. No video was it?
It's actually a video with him in El Dorado red. We shot it. I want to say last year sometime
Really?
Yeah, and he actually remembered like the encounter and everything
But outside of that, you know, I met other rappers there
um
So
You know, I felt like that was like a way to meet them face to face and show them what I had going on
Because I knew one thing like the product my product like you can't it's undeniable
Yeah, I knew that. Yeah, like I knew that and I believed in that like
There's it's just undeniable, you know, how did you like is there like like how did you develop your your
Your like filming and editing style like like obviously you didn't go to school for that
Like how did you how did you learn how to do it all yourself and like for you know, how did you
It was there like somebody you looked up to
Or was there like another another filmmaker or someone that you kind of like looked at and like liked their style and kind of
Wanted to like follow in their footsteps or did you I don't think like there's anybody's style that I like
Copied or whatever because like
I'm really not like I don't want to like be like that guy that says oh like
I'm like, you know, I'm a filmmaker and like I love this director and this is like film is life
I'm not that guy. Yeah, but I am the guy that will tell you like I love to tell stories and I loved
I love for people to like
Be where I'm at without being there. You know, so like I think that was my approach
Uh, obviously like I love hype. Williams is shit. Yeah, I think it was dope because that's what he used to make me feel like
I'm in Chicago on the fucking train and snowing
Like yeah, I want to be
Where those palm trees are and all that shit and we're all the awesome shit's going on with the yacht and all this stuff
You know, like it wasn't just about showing those things. It was just like
The way he did it
It's like you wanted to be a part of it or if you weren't there like you got it like this is what that life's about
You know, so but do I copy height Williams? Fuck. No, I don't
You know, but I mean, it's gonna be inspired by people too, but I took that from it
Like I guess, you know, I like that aspect. So that's what I try to make my videos be like
Yeah, like I feel you know, I feel like some of my
Videos you watching like you could you can smell my video you can. Oh, yeah, for sure. You know what that smells like, bro
Yeah, like that's like I'm trying to hit all your senses, bro. Like, you know, like sent
You know, like all of them
Which video is this nothing else talking about? Yeah. Yeah
How long ago was this shot? I don't even know man. I shoot something fucking videos
I want to say like what's your schedule like dude like how many fuck like like
I'm gonna go shoot one after I leave 2016 June. Okay, there you go. So two years ago. Yeah. Yeah, I remember when this came
I remember when you actually released this
two years ago
This this video right here, bro
It was like it really set a lot of trends in the industry all these muzzle flashes you see going on. Yeah
No one had done that before right. I was the first one to do that
You know, yeah, they would all just point the guns at the cameras. There wouldn't be those
Yeah, it's like they were pointing on a gun but nothing comes out. Yeah, you know
So once again, like my favorite comment of this video is I think it's the top rated comment on the comment section of this video
I think it's go something like
1000 videographers were killed during the making of this video. Yeah
Bro, can we talk about that word videographer? Yeah, I hate the word videographer. This is my videographer
Do not call me if you call me that like we're not shooting video. Yeah
Like we're not doing it. Let's explain to the people listening to why what like what how it makes you feel
It's like a just like degrading. I feel like videographer is just a guy that presses a record button
Right, you know, it's like the dude that comes films your prom or something. Yeah
I'm not that guy. Trust me. Yeah a videographer is like someone who shoots records weddings
All right. Ah, we don't want to piss them off because you know, they got
Yeah, we don't want to just make a wedding guys either
It's like anybody you anybody you hire to do anything to say he's your guy for that
Like this is this is my my car wash guy or this is it's just like people love to do that
Right. It's just super. Yeah, because at the same time, there's like proud videographers out there
So I don't want to like take anything from them, but I'm not that I feel like yeah, I bring more to the table
Definitely. I'm gonna
If you're up for it or if you want to know like I'm gonna tell you how to dress
I'm gonna tell you where the location needs to be
Yeah, I'm even like tell you how to you know perform
Yeah, this is how you should do it to convey that line better or this you know what?
We shouldn't even show you're rapping this word. We should show something else happening
You know, yeah
So what's your schedule like with these videos dude? You pump out so many fucking videos
How do you like have time to do anything? How many do you do in a year right anything?
I was just counting the other day because somebody asked me on instagram, but like
Average like let's just say I would say like 80 to 100
Right. Yeah, so every week you're doing a new video at least multiple videos multiple videos in one week. Yeah
What video are you shooting after this?
Uh, can you not talk about it? Um
Yeah, I don't I don't think I can talk about that one. Yeah, you know, but we got we got some fire coming
Yes, I'm going on today. Some heat coming. Yeah, do you ever get into any like
Weird sticky situations from being like hanging out with these guys because I remember you were saying earlier before we were recording
You got to hang out with so many different types of people that
Not aren't necessarily don't have the same background or personality as you have
like have you ever just like
Been like chilling and just like been in like a really sketchy weird situation that made you feel uncomfortable or
Man, I try to keep a professional, but I can't even lie like I was in Lakewood, right? Yeah
Would like artist Rachi. Yeah, so this is like we're like young thug like
PUE all these guys kind of grew up out there
Yeah
And like all of a sudden like someone that was in the video his girlfriend pulled up
And they got into I guess they were in an argument and she started shooting
No, I don't know like what the fuck is all that sees people running like everybody's just running, you know and uh
It was kind of like pretty it was kind of crazy because it's like you like you just don't like I just you know
I'm like I hear something, but I don't know like what's going like where it's coming from or what's going on
So that was kind of
This was like in the middle of a scene. Yeah, we're in the middle of a scene
So what do you do you shut down and pack up or you just keep going?
Yeah, I mean, yeah, we
In the moment we stop right and then I was obviously ready to leave right
Because I don't think it's cool like like safety or right. That's not a cool thing. Like it's not necessarily
Like it's like I've valued my life, right, you know, so
um
I wasn't happy about the fact that that that that happened or whatever. So but then you know
Raji kind of explained some things to me. He's like, no, you know, like
Let's you know, let's let's finish like, you know, it's nothing's gonna happen. Yeah
You know the person whatever, you know, like they kind of had it under control. Yeah. Yeah, I don't want to go into too much
But yeah, that was pretty crazy. You know, you know, it was and I never thought that would happen, but it did
And I definitely kind of changed some things
Around after that happened. You didn't yeah
All like a lot of the guys that you might think are like dangerous dudes or
Have like a lot of shit going on
If we do hang out it's like we're not hanging out on those terms or right, of course, you know, like if if I see pee
Be like we're just like hanging out like doing our thing
You know, we're probably in the studio listening listening to songs trying to think of video ideas or yeah, you know, we're just not
I don't think I've ever been in like an environment like that with any any rapper. Yeah, you know, so you so you'll like
So, I mean, I wouldn't even know like what if they're if they're in those environments
I just know that I hear a song I bring it to life. Yeah, you know. Oh, yeah, for sure
like
What's like, what's that like like coming up with ideas for videos? I wanted to like is it always just you or ideas?
Yeah, all my ideas like it's easy. I just
When I hear the music it's just I just close my eyes. I just start singing random. Yeah, I see color
You listen to it and put it together. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, that's funny because I see I feel like everything I've ever made like any kind of video I've ever made I feel like I've always
like
Stolen something from somewhere else. I feel like yeah, I feel like that because I feel like I've always I've like all this
Shit that I've seen I'll be like I'll see one video
I'm like I fucking love how they shot that and then how they did this the whole time
I want to take that and like remake it into my own like my own thing
You know, I mean, I feel like I've never taken something just completely original
So you haven't gone caught. You know what I mean? Yeah, what so you haven't gone caught?
Yeah, I haven't gotten caught right so then you're pretty good the most great
What is the quote the most creative people are just the best best at hiding their sources? There you go
Yeah, that's funny though. I mean, there's so much
Going on even if you're not trying to like copy or let's just say being inspired by something
Yeah, you're still gonna the odds are like you're gonna probably end up having something similar to somebody else in a different country
You're the first one to do anything exactly. Yeah
Are there any other guys that are that are like kind of like in your lane right now that you that you like
That you like what they're doing or that you work with no, I don't watch anybody else's shit
No, you know, but nobody you don't keep up on it. No, I'm in my own world, bro. Yeah, that's how you stay focused, right?
Yeah, but you for sure you gotta have you gotta like I know some guys like I don't watch their videos
Like I know I'm like they follow me on instagram. Yeah, I might follow them back
But you gotta know some people though, right? I mean people don't reach out to you at all like no no other like
No other like video directors or people creating like big hip dope hip hop videos ever reach out to you like trying to collab or anything
I guess you could say that they do but besides me at least
There I mean, yeah, they do but I don't really I'm not into that shit. Yeah
Yeah, so what are you doing lately? Like what what's what's some of the latest stuff that you've been I know you've been working on
um
A lot of new Gucci videos for the evil genius evil genius. What's up with that? How how did that all happen?
Shout out to goo up. Yeah, shout out to goo up man evil genius. Uh, I don't I don't know
I think you don't have to ask him how it happened, but uh
We should have broken brought him on. Yeah, we need in there
You know, we we've shot some videos. I think they're pretty exciting
I know you've been doing videos like the first video with him was way way back way before he even got locked up the last time
Right. I was actually with him like three days or two or three days before he got locked up
Really? Yeah in Atlanta like at the studio like
He was he was playing like at that time the new project he had coming out
um
Was that you know the song he had like Pablo Pablo Pablo?
It was with him in our honorable scene out. Is it a whole project?
I remember the little choppo
So I don't know something like that, bro. Anyways, it was like some some a new project he had coming out. It was dope
I don't I don't think it was trial god, but it's kind of like a trillion projects
Yeah, but I've known him like since those days. How did you how did you link up with him? Well, how did that happen?
I was shooting a video with yoghati at the at the time
It was in Orlando doing an all-star weekend and um, it was a song with
Jules Santana yoghati and Gucci man
And really yoghati had commissioned it, but Gucci was on there
And uh, that was like my first time meeting him and you shot the video. We kind of like
I had like a short conversation. Yeah, and I kind of explain I explained some ideas
I had for him at the time and he immediately he was like, hey, like take my number down
Really, you know, I took his number down and I hit him and he actually hit me back and I was kind of surprised
Wow, and it kind of went from there. That's so sick. Yeah
That's dope. So and then what happened recently with the recent projects been working on him with him
Yeah, you know off of off of his evil genius project, you know, that's some some some stuff
I can't give away that like the I mean we all saw the details
You know because I feel like he hasn't even put some of that stuff out
But let's just say it's it's some really awesome songs with him and other people
And where did you shoot? Where'd you shoot? How many videos did you shoot three three all in like the past couple weeks?
Uh, it's been like, yeah, it's been a few weeks. Yeah, and you shot him. Where'd you shoot him?
Miami, Miami in and out of different parts of Miami. Yeah, really all of yeah, and and uh
Who's all in the videos? Are there any other people he collabs with in there?
Yeah, there's some big like collabs in there. One I can tell you because we put the trailer out
It's him enriched the kid him enrich the kid. Yeah
That's the other one. I can't say shit. You can't say shit about it. You see it. That's awesome. Yeah
My favorite gucci video out of I mean, there's thousands of them, but I think my favorite
I mean, you gotta like you have like the favorite og ones, but like my favorite modern gucci video is the last time video
You remember that one? No, how does it go? So, you know, you just don't watch any any other videos
I don't know though. Tell me
Can you pull it up? Yeah, which one it's just called last time, but it's basically I I don't I don't I don't know
If harmony kareen did direct it or if he had anything to do with the creative of it
But he must have but because he's he's in it
And it's with him in uh and travis scott. I think
As the car's on fire the whole time and the car starts lifting up into the air
That video just uh
It does something to me. It it moves me. I think we're supposed to say pause after this
It's like a rap, right? Yeah
Pause it for this pause Danny
Like the this look right here this this black light type look it's like night vision night. Yeah the night vision. Yeah night
That's what I meant
How sick does he look in night vision dude with all you can see all the tattoos perfect. Oh, yes
Yeah, how do they get that night vision dude
My camera doesn't have the a7s doesn't and the red don't have night vision. It's like the old mini dv cameras used to film
Yeah, the dv cameras actually had it built in. Yeah. Yeah, I have a sony. I still have a sony
That has that this got the night vision in there. Really you could like use it till I look like through people's clothes and shit
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know it's like I never did that. There's like a cheesy effect in premiere
You can you can get that but I don't know. That's what they did
My camera gives you the video of everybody
Bro, what the fuck get him a seat, bro. That's my favorite video
We need forest in here, man
I love that video
That's like the best video period like straight up. Is that when he's driving the Lambo doors open blue fucking the vendedore
His foot out the car. I think it's a mercy log or the blue. Oh, yeah, my fault. It's a mercy log
Do it
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and he has that uh, I forgot that blue Kenny chain. Bro. He hit the fucking Kenny chain
Oh my god, you don't know about like the whole Gucci main like Kenny chain phase. Like you're not even a real fan, bro
What about the dog
Oh the odi that's like throwback super throwback. That's a that's a dope video though. Same size
Yeah, the last time video is probably one of my recent favorites
Yeah, but yours hasn't come out yet. So I'm sure yeah, it's gonna be like the shit. Yeah, I can't wait. Yeah
Look, I'll tell you what
I guarantee you like at least one video will get like a hundred million views a hundred million within the first month
First month a hundred million. Yeah, so you put them all on world star
I mean like
I guess yeah, I mean not all of them get a debut on world star, but
They all pretty much end up on world star. Yeah. Yeah, what video that you've made are you most proud of?
What's your favorite? What's what's your favorite of all time? Like which video could you look at and
You could say defines you. It's not we're not there yet. You're not there yet
No, so to date which video do you think you're most proud of we can't even say it because they're all like for me
I can't watch them. They're like frustrating for me to watch really because it's always gonna be something that I couldn't have
Finished in the video or didn't get done or yeah
Kind of that's what keeps me going bro
We're trying to get to that point where it's like I can say yeah, this is it. Yeah
You're grinding to get to them, right?
What's that peewee video where where the monkeys are drinking lean?
And all those chicks are in the hot tub
twerking jumanji jumanji
Yeah, we shot that example by the way. Explain to me how the fuck you that you you you pulled that off
Why how did you get monkeys to drink lean?
Who's the guy on the horn or a bill? What's his name? Ben Frank
Old bank Franklin. There's a price tag on anything price tag or anything
It's cool. Yeah, I mean and you know what's funny about him is like people probably don't even know this
He's not that's just he's just being himself, bro. Yeah. Yeah
I've already seen peewee with 10 bitches doing that in real life. So it's not hard to recreate it
It seems to me like he's like a real life cartoon dude like in real life. He's just like so animated and everything he does
Yeah
Like he already does that in real life, bro
Like so this is like him every day normally absurd. I mean i'm just saying bro like the dude's really that's his life
Yeah, that is look at his fucking necklace, bro. Look at his fashion sense like
He's independent like that whole outfit, right? It's a thing. It's a brand called off-white
Like bro, this shit's like three months old like people are just buying that shit now, right? Yeah
Where did you get those money? Do they like contact him and just send him free shit or
No, I think what it is is they just know that
He has the buying power for this shit
So like, you know, he gets it. Hey, you finally got the jet ski and they won. They won in promoting it, you know in the videos
Yeah, I mean
Jet ski in the pool, right? That's what you were saying. Yeah, I remember we were talking about that before
Yeah, we made it happen, bro. You made it happen
Got a crane and we got a crane to get in there. Yeah
No, what was this house on this was this house on the water? Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah, it was
He was on like the same thing the monkeys were on so
We couldn't like really go too crazy. You have to be safe, you know, yeah, so
but
But it was definitely on bro. That's the other thing like we don't do no fake shit, bro
Like is that camera? We're gonna do green screen. Yeah, no. Yeah
I try to capture the real deal like
You know in this video, right? So let's just say it wasn't just by getting a house
The people have to be comfortable with having a jet course. Yeah, right. That's what I'm saying
Yeah, we're gonna have a monkey down
So maybe it was like the house I wanted but then they're the ones willing to let us do the jet ski thing
Right. So that's kind of high. Go you kind of drill it down and
Yeah, get what you can get what you can get. We want to use your pool. We're gonna have a jet ski
Uh, and then you show up with four monkeys
Yeah, maybe you leave the monkeys and 10 gallons of lean and 20 strippers
What what like what is something like that cost?
It wasn't bad the jet ski was like three grand. I remember that really
I don't remember the total cost, but I want to say like, I don't know man like
That was like a lower budget one for him like maybe like
25,000 for that one. Wow. Yeah, some of the simplest videos do the best. Yeah, but the simplest concept one shot
It's back to the whole like storytelling thing. Yeah, like I think people like really connected with that video
Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Yeah, I think I think I think there's something about
Just the simplicity of
Something like that that people really just like they just get it and then it just resonates more with a lot of people
It's it's funny. Like I don't watch just these videos like I'm like watching it right now. Yeah
I'm catching myself watching my own video because I don't fucking watch them
So what did you film them and then you added them put them out? How long does that take between filming and putting it out?
Which just kind of depends like on the vibe, but yeah, that one right there was like overnight. Yeah
So you really you go home? Yeah, it had to go on a world star the next day
So we have to meet the deadline. So we're like boom. We're shooting it
You know it all it all it actually all I didn't even know I could do that bro till like until I shot a video
Applies called reds carlton. Yeah, or it was called ran off on the plug twice. I think or something something like that and uh
Yeah, bro like that we shot we shot a bit. He was like hey. Oh, you know, uh
I have a slot on world star for this day, you know
Uh, you know, I'm gonna chain up the video. I'm gonna put out. There's a new song. I'm gonna put out
and I was like, oh shit. Okay, boom
We shot the video and then it was like I the next day like it had to go out
You know, we shot the video like I think in Orlando drove home to Tampa
No, and this song was it was huge that ran off on the plug twice dance like went crazy
Yeah, it was like that was the first overnight. That was a whole no where
Where ran off on the plug twice like ran the internet. Yeah, like it just it just happened out of like necessity
Like I knew I had to get it done like so I made I just found sometimes that that shit happens
Under that under that under those circumstances when you're under a cert like a huge like a really strict deadline
Have you heard of like the mastermind molecule?
No, what's that?
Bro, there's a book called mastermind. You should read it. But like that shit really happened to me that night
Really?
Yeah, I mean, I'm a firm believer in that. What is it? Yeah, what is it? It's just like
um
It's it's basically saying that your brain has the power to to do anything. Yeah
When it comes down to it right if it's like a life or death
Like if somebody hasn't gone to your head and yeah, you you have to fucking make a million dollars by the end of the week
or your mastermind molecule is
Getting in that mindset without being in that position. Yeah, so imagine that
Just getting there naturally. Yes turning it on and off. Right. Yeah. Wow
Who's that book by I don't remember the author
Then what was it mastermind molecule? Just I think you feel like a mastermind. It's really cool. Lois like a m like a yellow m
Is this the most viral video you've ever done?
No, it's the first one though. It's the first one. Yeah, but it's like this is what like two years old
Probably how many views is this one?
I feel like I wasn't long ago. It's got 15 almost 60 million views. Yeah, 16 in real ones. So this was 2015
November, but three years on social media. We're probably talking billions right between everybody doing
Everybody's grandma doing the dance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's billions easily
So you pretty much shoot all plies his videos now
I'm not sure because why is like he's funny like he always has something up his sleeve. What do you mean?
I just I don't know. I feel like he probably has like 30 videos ready to go. Really? You know
No, I'm gonna look at I got my phone right here, bro. I'm gonna tell you right now the DMT spirit molecule
Yeah, it's funny. You'll never know what it'll pop off sometimes the stuff that you put the least amount of work into
Now we put some work into that one though
It's you know, once again, it's true to life
Songs called ritz carleton like we're really at the ritz car. Yeah. Yeah, like we're really there
doing all this now
Is this like one of those situations where you would like you rather uh beg for forgiveness and ask for permission
You just kind of like go just kind of like we we had we asked them though. Oh, yeah, we did
You know
Sometimes you just gotta run and gun sometimes you just gotta fucking go
I mean with the with the bigger artists like that like I can't risk
Asking for forgiveness because there's so much at stake, right? Yeah. Yeah
But like with like an indie artist. Yeah, we might do some shit where I will just try to get it done
What's it like?
What's it like working with an artist like this where you have to go through a label like do a lot of labels?
like try to like breathe down your neck when you're making a lot of videos and
Really I can't speak on like anybody else's experience, but I think me personally like I haven't had that no
Yeah, I haven't had that see they pretty much give you
Complete freedom. I deal with like my relationships have always been like with the artist
So it's like even if it's a label situation. It's like if the artist saying hey, I want to shoot with lmar
You know boom boom whatever and the label steps in and does whatever they need to take care of
But you don't ever do any communicate with the labels at all. They yeah, I do you know like you have to for the whole legal thing
Yeah, you know, yeah, yeah
Sometimes disbursement of funds. I mean it just mattered to differentiate. Yeah, and who's that?
Who's that girl you're working with that you saw the music video with
Recently, yeah
Who was asian doll? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I did one. I did one with her. Yeah
What was that somebody else?
Um, tell me about her. I don't really know much about her. She's dope Gucci signed her, right?
Yeah, Gucci signed there
That song we shot the video for like I saw her record it like that day
Really?
She recorded the song the same day shot the video. Well, we shot it the next day
We wanted to shoot that same day, but yeah
I was there for the whole process. I actually have it on video like her. She's like she's a girl, bro
So she's super organized. She's like she's about her business like yeah
You know
Next Cardi B. She did a whole like project with south side
Uh in the one day
No way
one day, bro
And like it was it was it was awesome like seeing because I have it was my first time seeing like a girl in the studio
Yeah, making music and it was it was pretty cool. Really? She definitely like has a more like
Methodical is that a word a methodical?
Maybe it is for now
Approach, you know, you just made it. You just made it. We're made it up new word. Where's she from?
Um, I think she's I want to say she's from Dallas. I might be wrong. Okay, but I know she's you know, she's 10 17
So she's all over now. Yeah, for sure. I don't think I've seen her in the same city for two days ever since I've met her
Hey agent, if you're watching this interview, can we just go to
Tokyo please and shoot like three videos. Yeah, let's do it. I'm gonna come to and you know what fuck that
one in tokyo
one in Bangkok
and one in Shanghai
All three back to back
Yeah, and I'll pay for my own flights because I got hella miles on on emirates
Yeah, straight up business class. We'll be riding business class. Don't worry about that flight. Shit. We're just let's go
Let's get out there though
So try and why why over there in asian so
You think that's just that's what you see for her, right? She's she's asian doll
Just close your eyes and you visual it right in the middle of tokyo
We just we we need to connect that dot bro because I feel like
All the asian dolls in asia like they need to see her. Yes. She needs to see them
Yes, it'll be crazy. Have you shot over there before?
Nothing like professionally. Yeah, like me like just fucking around on shots. Yeah. Yeah
Do you have a place that was like your favorite place that you shot a video or?
um
Or I don't know a different country you went to or something or not really bro
I I prefer to shoot videos in miami though. Yeah as a preference. Yeah
Is that where you shot the uh money to my ear video?
Racks up to my ear. Yeah. Oh racks up to my ear. Yeah, that was that was in miami
Is that where you got has I mean I figured like the drag queens dancing drag queens. Yeah, dude
There was like a bunch of guys dressed as chicks. What are you talking about, bro?
Racks up to my ear. Yeah
Play it with the plies one. Yeah that one
I swear they've been watching some crazy videos or something dudes
No, that was in this video dude. I'm I'm positive. Yeah, where this is miami
Is this with this is with doff the doff. Yeah, how young doff
Plies he's got to be a funny character, right to where he just seems like a comedian super funny
Yeah, he's funny, but he's also like very I respect him, bro. He's a very professional
Yeah, no, I don't mean that in a disrespectful way. I just mean no, I know I know too, but I don't yeah like
I've definitely like learned a lot from him. Yeah, you know like
I don't think any artist from like his era has been able to do what he did. Yeah, like he's still relevant today
Yeah, he's been around a long time
He just clowns in every video it's so funny
I
Where's the drag queens they're coming up you'll see
Cue the drag queens just show me when it comes up. I can't look at this right
You can't you can't watch this. I'm already looking at shit. I should have done a bit different
Oh, when you ever watch your stuff. Is that why you don't do it?
You just see like stuff you would have done differently and then you just it's just like to me
It's like I it's like always you turn you're always turning in an incomplete like final essay or something. Yeah
Yeah, you always see things that you can fix or do better or do different
So you look at yeah, you just critique your work and so you don't even watch it because of that or
Yeah, you just gotta pump out when you're pumping out that much shit
You just got to be a factory man. You can't you can't worry too much about perfection though
While I'm editing though, I definitely have like a feeling that I get right that I know that it's it's okay
Yeah, well, so you can get like a certain feeling, you know, all right. I'm at a point where this is yeah
Like like sometimes I know this shit's gonna go crazy. Yeah, I already know it. Yeah, like I have I just know
I think I've called you a couple times like yo bro. I got some shit. Yeah. Yeah
This is gonna be something special. Yeah, was it. Oh, yeah
Every single time right here. You just missed it run it back rewind rewind by like about 10 seconds
Right there, bro, that's a lady. That's a chick. Yeah, that looked like a dude to me when I saw it
No, that's a woman
I hope it wasn't anybody's mom
She's out there in houston, man. She's uh
Oh, so she's like a girl you work with before like no, no, she's like an instagram
That's savannah right there. Is that savannah savannah right there?
Where she yeah, who's savannah for the people listening right there ling ling look look ling ling pause it on savannah instagram star
Yeah, we gotta pause it on savannah
It's
Dolph
There we go, boom
What's up with savannah? So she's making music. She's another future like legend in the making. Yeah, you know, yeah, bro
But once again back to the real stuff, right?
That's her that's her money that she does that anyways. Yeah, you know, if you go on her page like she's been doing that shit
you know
Yeah, she's she's sick. Well, she's she's from houston. She's from houston too. What does she do?
She just an instagram star or yeah, well, she's she's an artist too. She's released like a few successful videos
I did a video for her bro. I did
1.6 million views on instagram
So once again like I think it's like a teaser a teaser. Yeah one point like that's insane, you know
That is fucking wild. How old is she?
You already say I'm not sure she's young. She's definitely the youngest flexor of the world. She's I want to say now. She's like 12
Really? Yeah, um, I did like the so far. We have a few of them coming out, but the one that's out is called chunlee remix
Yeah, yeah
You know who like jimmy boy is
The jeweler. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's his daughter. Oh, is it really? Yeah
Yeah
In a small world jimmy boy, he's like a jeweler for the artist and stuff right yeah the celebrity jeweler. Yeah, right
What about florida so like what's coming up next any big any big artist coming out of florida that you've been working with
What are you how are you feeling about florida right now?
It's fucking fire florida's on fire on fire
On fire
Yeah, what do you mean? Who everyone's buzzing from florida right now? Yeah
Really in all parts of florida
What do you think about all the new kodaks coming out all the new kodak blacks that are coming out of the world
Wait to see what kodak says about it. What do you what do you think he's gonna say about it? I'm not sure
I'm not sure he gets out soon, right?
Yeah, next year. No this year. I want a couple weeks. Yeah, no shit a couple weeks. Yeah
I
Love awesome. He's from florida too. I actually have some uh, yeah, he's from miami or I don't know what part of miami
But yeah, we have a video coming out. You do a little pop. Yeah, he's on fire now, too. Mm-hmm. They'll pop in who?
I don't remember
It was like a while ago, but yeah dope shit coming out with him. Yeah, I just thought we just shot a uh like a
Kind of like a vlog
um
Style video with rod wave and and glock nine and then we shot their show
And uh, everybody compares him to kodak and he sound he sounds just like kodak. I mean he sounds
He said he has one song where it's it's called tomm about that
He just came out with and like the first line of the song is like tomm about the next next kodak
I want to be glock nine but like any any youtube video any conversation about him
Has kodak's name in it and rightly so he sounds i mean you can't you can't say they don't sound similar
No, they definitely sound similar, but I mean given they're from the same area almost, you know, I mean they're not far apart
It's like a it's a florida thing
Yeah, like florida. I feel like
You know and it's just hot right now. Yeah, I mean that is hot you could have
More of the same product if there's no demand why not right, you know
There's definitely a lot of demand now that kodaks if people are saying I mean, I don't know who you're talking about
But if people are saying that like
I think it just speaks to like kodak's greatness. Yeah, he's getting that while he's still alive
Bro, because usually you don't get people emulating you tell your dad, right? That's true
Yeah, kodak's a real legend
Yeah, he's already here. He's still young. This is him. Yeah, this is this is him. This is glock nine
I
I don't know. I don't know how old is he's like 18 or something from Orlando. Yeah, well, I can't see him bro
I can't see him in the video really
What's the videographer doing here? I don't know what he's doing dude. I don't know who the hell shot this
Maybe it's his thing though like mysterious. Yeah. Yeah, I can dig it. That's cool
So what else bro, what's next? What do you got cooking man? Omar's got a movie coming out soon. Oh, yeah, yeah
full-length movie full-length movie so
If you if you love the video is you're gonna love the movie
So I expect everyone to you know download it stream it
Don't turn it. What's the what's the premise of the movie? Like what's the inspiration of the movie?
Lifestyle shit same, you know, I like to just so it's like the next belly. No not at all not at all
but
It's definitely gonna be something that's gonna entertain you make you ask questions
Got some big artists and make maybe create some arguments. Yeah, you know
Yeah, I'm gonna have a few artists in there. Yeah, you know
Any any names you can give us any any kind of details if you see them on my instagram pages
They're probably gonna be there on it. Yeah
Yeah, that's sick. So everybody
everybody
Knock on you got any you got a name for it or anything
No, I haven't bought the domain yet. So you have about the domain. Oh, yeah, don't say the name
What's uh, eta and when we're gonna get this I wanted christmas christmas my christmas gift
All right, it's your christmas this christmas. No way. Have you already been filming?
I'm sure no. No, he's gonna shoot you're gonna bang out by christmas. Hey, bro
We should we shoot music. We shoot
Critically acclaimed music videos in 24 hours shoot them edit them and release them in 24 hours
So just wait till what I do in this movie. It's gonna be like a 48 hour film film project
It's gonna fucking bang that shit out in no time
Not that I mean, I don't want to say I don't want to cut myself your buddy. Yeah
Where are you gonna release it? I can do it
How are you gonna distribute it speaking to a couple of people right now about that? Okay. Yeah
I know possibly not the internet
It's definitely internet. Definitely internet. It's definitely internet. I know where I want to go, but
Just trying to work through a couple of different offers right now
Bro, we gotta get a force on the mic because force was force come ask one question. Come ask come ask
Walk around the other way. Yeah, fuck that. Maybe maybe force has some spice for this. This podcast 1.5
Get force in here. Of course force ask ask whatever you want. What do we got?
This is ask me anything
All right, well, um, I was just wondering like on a lot of those videos forest by the way just for everyone out there forest is
um
Basically a prodigy freed labor for Dan
Tech genius he can wire any
Sound or visual system anywhere in the world and we have a failed youtube channel at me and Danny
He has his own youtube channel. It's called. What's it called failed tech tv failed tech tv
You can look it up. It'll be in the description. You can check it out as well. Omar will be in the description
So what's your question? I was wondering like a lot of these videos like you're in the middle of the street
Or you're in some type of weird, you know area talking the mic
You got to like you got to like shut down that area
How do you like if you want to like film on like i4 like on a street like how do you get that?
That's like a big ask, isn't it? Yeah, it just depends on the budget. So so you send anything can you get done with money?
No, I don't know if it can or can't but that's like a pretty crazy statement, but
But it's true. I know that you know
I've gotten permits in the past for like bridges in different areas that do have high traffic
And if you do like at a certain time or if you pay their fee
Which they call it a business impact think how much money like the town or whatever's losing
Then you know, you can you can do it. Yeah. Yeah. So and Omar's like the he he creates magic
Like you think of something crazy like I want to
Well, Omar pretty much will think of it if it's yeah, he thinks of it
He thinks of it as you can you can just guarantee it's fucking crazy as fuck
You know what I think like that's where the magic is though is
Making it happen and with the budget that you have
Because that's the constant battle, you know
But it's like once you have that vision in your head and you see like I want a fucking
I want him in on a jet ski in a pool with monkeys
There's no you're gonna find a way to make that happen no matter what you have to do like mastermind
The mastermind that's what seems like his his secret sauce is he makes it happen the right way
He doesn't yeah corners. He makes a hat. He got a crane. He didn't try to like that's right
Rig it up. He made it happen. He does make shit happen. That's why he's Omar the fucking director
What about these cars these expensive cars are a lot of these are these the artist cars or do you rent them or
It's like of course you got to rent some of them. Yeah some some you rent
And some they own but look sometimes they might own the exact car
But it's not the color that you want in the shot
Or like I've got artists that have the Lamborghini, but like it wasn't the color that we needed
Even like even like stuff and I think it was was it the stepped on video where we used Ben's Rolls Royce
Wasn't oh, yeah, that wasn't stepped on. So like Omar was in in he was here in Clearwater
And he had to finish up one of Peewee's videos that was I think it was due like the next day or something
I don't remember what it was and he needed he needed a quick shot of lean
pouring on the
High tech. Yeah the high tech at that time. I remember that in your blog. I saw that
Yeah, he needed the high tech going on the on the flying lady of the Rolls Royce. Yeah, so he came over to Ben's
That video is so crazy. Like I got like death threats from like the
People in the church bishops and all kinds of shit. It was crazy that video was so sick
And like a lot of people thought that it was like an angel that we were pouring blood on it was people are crazy, bro
Do you have when it comes to religion people are absolutely insane? This is the stepped on video
Do you have anybody that you want you for like is there anybody that you don't that's a good fucking question for us
That's why I'm here, man. I had to step in I couldn't
I couldn't stand like an amateur hour
Danny's just like, uh, you uh, you drink diet coke
Fuck you
I mean, I'll shoot for anybody, bro. Really?
And or in any genre, I feel like it's I would love to do some different things. That's cool
That could really open you, you know, open horizons. How about lil hank?
Oh, that'd be crazy. I'd give bro. I'll give lil hank the most fucking awesome video ever
I guarantee you lil hank's the shit
I bet you all the people that hit on lil hank after the video will love him. Hell, yeah
Little hank if you're watching this only if omar did the video though. If not, it would be it'll be pointless
Fuck with omar
How many times do you guys see videos and do you hate them when they come out?
A lot of times they don't they just a lot of times they just
They're a letdown when the song's really good and you see the video. It's like they just me just doing some field research
Yeah
Yeah
Have you ever been starstruck like you got a call from somebody and it's like holy crap
I can't I'll tell you like I don't know if it's called starstruck, but I didn't believe it. Is that what that means?
Yeah, I think that's why I have no pictures of any artists. Yeah, because I don't really care about that
But I got an interesting story. I'll tell you uh
I was eating like dinner one night and
I think it was like I was having sushi somewhere and I got a phone call
It was like, hey, what's up, you know, like this is yoghati
And I was like what like you never talked to me before. Yeah, no, I hung up the phone
I'm the first kind of praying on me. You said yoghati, you know
So a few minutes later he I think I was leaving the place and he called again. He's like, yo, like I could tell he had a little
you know
He was more assertive. I could tell in his turn. He's like, hey, you know, this is yoghati. Like what's up?
You know, I'm trying to just get a video
And I was like, oh and I heard more since I heard him speak a little more. I was like, oh, shit
This is yoghati. Like, you know, so he didn't say like he didn't like answer the phone and go. It's your boy. Yo guy
Like I mean, I thought right away. He would say that, you know, no yoghati is another person. That's like super fucking about their shit, bro
There's like a few people when you meet them that you just know why they're successful. Yeah, you see it
Of course plain sight. What's the most cash?
That you've ever like, you know, how they pretty much every video you shoot has a lot of cash in it
Well, I'll tell you okay, look
Before the music video stuff
It was a million it was 1.2 million and I did it because of my job, right? I was at the federal reserve in
I think ohio, I don't know the city and I
And at the fed, right? Yeah, and I grabbed like 1.3 million in cash
Who's bank account work stuff? I don't know
and uh, like
I remember picking it up and it was so heavy. I was like, yeah, like if you steal this like you can't even like get far with it
So heavy, isn't that great, you know, but on music videos like
Like 2 million one time
In cash, that's what the fuck
Real cash bro, yeah, always real
No
I don't think it should be real
I don't I don't I don't know why like hip-hop
artists are like so
In a cash, no, it's not about that. I feel like people
Judge them too much and they expect too much out of them. Like, oh, you need you don't expect like
Martin Scorsese to have real money in Wolf of Wall Street
Because do we agree that that money was not real? Yeah, for sure. The fun coupons were just that coupons. Yeah, right? Yeah
So why do we expect like?
A rapper to do it. Yeah, Omar's videos are real
You know, maybe because they're portraying themselves, you know in the in the movie you're portraying somebody else
Yeah, but we accept but we accepted the way though
I think it's like a believable thing like people look at him like damn. I wish I had that stack
I think for sure. I could have you know
No, I'm gonna go into detail about that bro because look
That needs to change. We just extended this motherfucking podcast. No, that's good. That needs to change because like
It's just like when a rapper gets in legal trouble, you know
They get like persecuted because of like their lyrics
But then we but we don't say oh like it's entertainment
So it's like we need to like like clearly define that
And then stick to it and then I'll say okay fine
but like
Somebody who like was it played a mass murderer like they don't get to say oh you're look at how he was acting in this movie
Like that was really him
I see what you're saying, right?
And and what you were saying was true. I'll I'll agree with you 10 years ago, but this new
Era of rap this new shit going on
Like it doesn't matter bro. Like
These the new wave rappers are not the street guys. If you don't know, I'm just gonna let you know now
Yeah, it's pure fantasy, bro. It's like it's really some awesome de caprio. Shit
It's who can look the part
Do you think some of them put on the put on like I always think this is not rap but like lady gaga
Like she puts on a persona and that's her brand. She sells to her people
She she's a branding expert like some of these guys like they're really not like that in real life
But they just do that for their videos and stuff because that's their brand
I think all the new guys that's why they're always getting robbed and shit because they're not really that guy
You know what I mean?
Yeah, straight up
But that's like you said, you know, you go to business school and they you know, you push the brand, you know
You wear coke shoes coke shirt
Coke you're gonna sell a coke cola. You know what I mean?
Yeah, like that's what you do. You just push it all day all night
But how do you think that'll change? I mean, do you think it's it's possible for that for that kind of
I mean if it needs to I guess, you know
But like right now like that's I'm all about change by the way, so I'm not knocking the new guys for
faking it or
Yeah, if they can rap about something better than the guy who's living it
Like why not?
You know
I don't care
Hardcore guys, yeah
That authenticity
And it's proven to work though not going that way, I mean if you look at if you look at
You know like a lot of like a lot of like the new guys like you like
He's not new but like if you look at Yachty style or xxx
You know his style extension on
Extente con however you say it or or bro or uh, yeah, I get more respected. How do you say it?
I mean, I think it's xxx tentacion xxx tentacion
Bro, you know, I never like I never heard his like whole project. Yeah until like after he had passed and like
I regret that. I feel I feel like man. I wish I knew about his greatness while he was still alive because he was dope
Yeah, he was dope. I like to do all that. It's I really like what he did. I like the style
I wasn't like like that that type of music. I'm not like the biggest fan of that kind of music
Yeah, but what he was doing was dope. Like have you heard his project?
Which one the the latest one that he released?
Yeah, I did. I listened. I listened. I didn't listen to the whole thing
But I listened to I can tell because you need to listen to the whole thing
All right, I'll listen because you can't even say his style because he there's so much variety on there
That I think that's why I like really respect him because it was it's really truly a gift
Yeah Kodak same thing. Yeah the way Kodak explains things
Hey, it's special, bro
Yeah, it's special and he was and he was doing that, you know, he's been in the game now for a while
But like yeah, he was doing that like like a much younger age. Mm-hmm
Can I say something for the haters here? Yeah
So I sometimes when I'm listening to the newer rap and you go back to the old stuff like young gz
Or you go back to like three six mafia like, you know the beginning stuff or even that's a little bit after the beginning
a little closer
But like I see like a lot of the that rap like, you know, the lyrics were like more real to me
You know what I mean?
Like I could listen to him in the car and they're talking about like their daily life and stuff like that
You know the and the struggles that they had in their life and then you listen to some of the rap now
And they've got some elements of that but it's more just like
Kind of not like not I listen to rap now too. So I'm not hating but like a lot of it's a lot just nonsense
You know, it's like there's not a like you say telling a story like young gz
To tell stories about you know, this is what I do for a job
It's what I do when I get home and this is what you know, my trouble my trouble is my life and now it's just like
You know, like it just seems like to me like it's less of a story. Yeah, who do you like now?
Oh, jeez
Now you're fucked
I mean rick ross still has he's still kind he's still got some stuff. It's not
rick ross. Yes. I'm saying new age who you like
I'm trying to think you have to love him saying you like like what's some new rapper you listened to recently
Yeah, I'm going to get crucified on the
No, dude, you're a legend the comments are gonna love you dude. What's your name? Uh,
I like a lot of the the girl, you know, woman emcee's like the Nicki Minaj stuff
She's not new age though, bro. Cardi B. Yeah, Cardi B's rap. I really like like
Like stuff where like they mix in the Spanish stuff like people some of his stuff's cool
I know he's not really like a hard rapper like street trap stuff. Yeah
Oh, I do listen to some of the trap stuff
But you know, like it's not something that I'd like tell my mom about you know what I mean
Like oh, I listened to a little pump, you know, like you got to bro. You know my mom listens to all that
I was gonna ask you that like when you go back my mom's been on on FaceTime with Kodak the whole nine, bro
That's crazy. Your mom has yeah, she had pictures of Gucci man. Yeah, I love by the way Gucci
I like you know, I listen to his stuff and that's that's kind of new age too, but not really
I mean, yeah, he has like a newer
Style I think now he's evolved like he's evolved crazy evolved like if you go back and listen like Nelly like country
Yeah, no look like that's crazy different than now. I'm gonna help you out, bro
I'm gonna put all your frustrations with this shit. I'm just I'm just talking. We're just talking. It's two different things
You shouldn't compare them. Maybe it's just two different genres. I'm just yeah. Yeah
It's not it is
because I
I have all those CDs, bro. Like I got the CDs of all this shit. You're saying like
the GZ CD and
You know like back when you you know ludicrous and all that
but
I remember at that time listening to this stuff like loving it and being entertained by it
And listening to like a little pump today or like smoke perp or whatever
And I've I'm entertained just as much. Yeah, you know, and it's like an evolution
And I'll try to if I and it's like if you go to certain like markets
They will they put a lot of the older shit on the radio still. Yeah, and I can't stand it
Because I don't want to sit, you know
Speaking back to it. No, because it's like back to the whole change thing. Like I'm like a million miles a minute
I really don't want to like decipher the fucking lyric and see what the guy meant
It just entertained me. Yeah, like some of the best stuff smoke perp song a minute and 56 seconds. Perfect. Well, yeah, boom
I guess the job done just as effectively as like some not shit that I used to love
Yeah, some of the best stuff is like is like Gucci is like one of the best because he could come up with like the most
absurd lyrics that you've ever heard the watch around my wrist cost some Mercedes truck
Picture perfect picture perfect how I hold the pot like every every other line is just some fucking absurd thing
He made up one of my favorite records is he had a mixtape that he made on the phone from jail
Oh, yeah, I remember that. That's so good. It's just and the way they mix it is so good
Um, when you go back home
And you know, are you is your family like today? Can you get this kind of music over there?
Like I know with the internet. I'm sure you can be even before is there like radio stations
Really? Yeah, that's pretty cool. I don't know who someone big just did a concert out there, too
I don't know it feels like Calvin Harris or somebody somebody did a big concert out there
I heard like
Some of the guys over there like, you know, the big money like they have like personal like that Beyonce and Jay-Z come
Like do a show for just them for 10 million dollars or something probably man
They do all kinds of weird shit out there. How do they make their money out there oil mainly? I don't know
No, no
Pakistan's like big in that that's what that's just what ben told me
Yeah, he ben doesn't know shit next subject next subject next
No, it's um
Our biggest export is like well anything white like we deal in heavily
Really?
Yeah, so
No, no, no like so like cotton, right? It's white
Heavily like the best salt
Like you heard like Himalayan salt. Yeah, that's where it comes from. Really?
You know, the Himalayas are in in our in my country in my mother country. Yeah
Yeah
You ever thought about rapping yourself? Oh all the time man. I wish I I don't I don't know how
I wish I could though. You got like all the greats in your pot in your phone
I know I could bracket like my mix here will be lit
Yeah, I'd have all the like super produced fucking beats and I was actually thinking about that
Your phone must be like a treasure trove of numbers
Yeah, like if like a fanboy got your phone, they probably yeah, like I don't use like, uh, what's that shit called apple cloud?
Yeah, I clocked for that reason. Yeah extra long password
Yeah, that'd be a good rap song too extra long password. Yeah
You should be a ghost writer for me. Yeah, I do it on the side
That'd be dope. That'd be dope and then Omar can make my videos. Yeah
We're if people want to find out more about like what you're working on and stuff
I know you got Instagram and stuff like that
But you you have somewhere we can go like, you know, so what like a blog or something like that
No, um, I have like all the me all the different social
But I'm just heavy on Instagram, bro. You have you on Twitter too that aren't you you tweet you tweet a lot
Twitter is like sporadic man. We'll link it. Yeah. So somebody wants a video by Omar day Instagram you that's how I change my Twitter though
Like I changed up like my tweets. Did you I only I only like tweet like real shit like personal shit
No, oh really? Yeah, like what I'm going through. So it's like not music
What what made you decide to do that? I feel like I needed it like a place to like not vent but just to be me
Yeah, you know therapeutic. Yeah, exactly, bro. Like it's very important because I'm around like
Yeah, like I'm around so many different personalities
And then you bring like drugs into the equation and all this shit
And you know, you got you can't forget who you are in the middle of all that. Yeah, like it's my work
passion, but like
It should be like one part of me like not the only part
You know
Yeah, right now you're kind of like underground like so people don't really like know what you look like like on the street
But are you ever afraid that you're gonna get like so people are like, you know
Be on like paparazzi and stuff on the street just be like that's like like dj. Cow like he started off as dj
No, yeah, I mean bro like in like in some bigger cities. It does happen though. Like people want to like take
Selfies are asked. Yeah, like they do but not like a
Celebrity or whatever. I guess you could get to that
Like that could be like overnight like in one video hits it off and and you get famous
I can't wait till that that omar
Direct the omar the director video comes out the pee we video the pee we song. Can you talk about that?
Oh, shit, man. Oh shit. We're dropping it here now live, bro. We need to ask him
Is he ever gonna like put it out, bro?
He's gonna text. Let's call him live. Let's FaceTime and live on the podcast
I don't know if you'll fucking pick up
We gotta FaceTime we gotta ask him about the omar video, bro. You guys you could just be like, hey
We're at we're on this podcast. We just know is this song coming out pee we by the way
Are you feeling better now that I came in the podcast? Are you waking up? I know
Yeah, man, you made it so much better for us to sleep you I couldn't take it
Pee we wrote a song about omar
That's hilarious
Pee we looks like a funny guy from all the videos. I had never heard of him before today. I'm gonna check him out after
This is live right here live from concrete studios
Live from concrete studios
Can I ask a nerd question? Yeah, what do you edit on you mac or pc?
Mac yeah, okay. Yeah mac pro. Yeah. Yeah, but you still edit on final cut
No, I got the I just got some new shit called the iMac pro. Oh
That thing looks that thing looks
He's got everything that he does
Danny you got the iMac pro looks looks good. He's got the old one. You got the new one. So I got the trash can one the old one
That's why yeah, bro. I'm like not Danny
Nerd question like that shit like you could edit 8k on it. Yeah, that's like that's really red raw
8k no problem. Yeah, I did it. Yeah, it's pretty cool
You talk to the guys that read like they know you or you know, they don't bro
A lot of that shit bro
Like I feel like a lot of people who shouldn't know me and like want to like collaborate on stuff
And like these big brands
They've just like not been around because because of like the stigma on hip hop type shit
So now that it's like more accepted
They're still not really there
They don't know bro
They're so out of the loop because I'll see brands like link up with the most weirdest fucking artists
I'm like, yeah, that guy was hot like five years ago. What are you doing? Like I have to get the label to you, right?
It's just like a cycle because it's like then you like if you're a whatever brand and you give this guy money
It doesn't do shit for you. Then now you'll probably never will give money again in that industry
You know, yeah
Yeah, when you guys get paid for your videos
These rappers pay you in like briefcase with cash or they give you like a check that says Gucci man on it
Oh, yeah, no, I mean like
I prefer like a bank wire
You know
Yeah, no, I mean
Yeah, but this is like then you have like, what do you do with all this cash?
I just have to take it to the bank and deposit it
Get this cash off me, you know, then they're like, what are you doing?
Are you stripping on shooting rap videos? What do you expect?
Can you ask Gucci next time you see him if his credit card says Gucci man on it?
Yeah, yeah, no, I'll ask him
It probably does he probably has one that says Gucci man, right? Yeah, he probably has Gucci man LLC
You can get it like a car with whatever that's pretty legit. Yeah, they wouldn't do that for me
Would you do you think you'll ever shoot any big commercials for like big brands?
I would love to I feel like I have so much to offer the big brands. Yeah, I understand like my
Like my world like I feel like I get it
And like the you know, like the engagements there on the social media. Yeah, for sure. So I feel like
They need to like reach out, bro
I think so too. I think eventually the the lines will get more blurred and I think that yeah, I think I think I'm not trying to
Yank your chain or anything
But like I think you have like the business side you got the video side you got the creative side
So like a lot of these guys like they just go to kmart or or best buy they buy a camera and they go
I'm a creator, you know, I'm a director. Oh, yeah
And that's that's the thing is they got to realize like, you know
The value proposition that you get when you hire Omar it's more than just a guy with a camera
But that's why I'm learning that now though
I have like the best cameras and shit too. Don't get me wrong
but and I have like the stuff that is not really up there in price but
If anyone tries to sell you on their product of what they own
Sorry, if they're trying to sell you on their equipment, just oh, yeah, just look the other way
Run, but that's like really fast. This is like that's what I would do, you know
That's like this is like the youtube era like everybody buys a mac
They buy a camera and they go I'm going to go make videos which you know, which is how you started
But there's a difference. Yeah, but that doesn't mean like they're gonna be successful at it, you know, so
But that doesn't mean also that they can't be successful. Yeah, it doesn't yeah, it doesn't really you're right. It doesn't
But but if you're an artist and you know, you're trying somebody that's that's new not you're you're past that now
But let's say you were new, you know, you're taking a risk
You know hire somebody that might be the next the next to omar or they might be not right and you don't know
You get what you pay for though
That's that's very true
So get in while omar is still inexpensive
Relatively speaking. Oh, yeah. Yeah, because I feel like I'm a bargain for what I do. That's all I'm saying
I'll tell you what how much they are up and you tell me if it's off. Yeah. Well, yeah, I'm saying right now
Okay
Oh, that's way less than I thought it would be. You know, I mean, yeah, that is a bargain
I feel like that's a bargain for what you're getting because you're gonna make millions off the shit. Yeah
Why are you guys telling secrets? It's less than a lambo. Yeah less than a lambo. Yeah
I mean, that's a fucking deal. You can buy an omar video and make money off of that
When you buy lambo and make nothing, I mean, which one you're gonna buy, right? Yeah, but the thing about I mean
Yeah, obviously, it's not about equipment. But do you honestly like shooting with reds?
No, I hate shooting with reds dude. I feel like they're like great for movies, which is why they're made, right?
Yeah for and and and for 8k and in studio
Yeah, like we're not in we don't have the luxury of being in hollywood, bro
Like there's no paramount studios here. And yeah
You know people spend the same amount of time grading footage that they will editing an entire video
Like if you want to spend 18 hours color grading all your footage
I mean, is it like you shoot on a red?
Well, let's talk about that because people ask me that question a lot really like
Is it better?
It is do I feel like the average consumer can tell the difference? No
Absolutely not not on youtube and also, you know, it's sometimes with these deadlines, you know, you can't it's not practical to use it
right
I've had like because I've shot I shot a um
Uh a commercial for land river usa like five six years ago
And I shot the original video on a canon 7d, right? Yeah, and it was like
I fucking knocked it out of the park with the video like the video turned out perfect. They paid me forward or whatever, but
They asked me to reshoot it on a red
So when I went back again to shoot it on the red and I had never shot anything on a red before that
I went and reshot it the whole fucking second the whole the second video sucked
It was just not anywhere near it wasn't nearly as good
Like the lighting was different because we tried to go big budget on the second commercial by by by
By hiring a whole freaking grip department. We had giant nine foot freaking sprint like screens
we were bouncing light off of
and like a whole like
Monitor set up like a whole video village set up and everything and it was just a disaster dude like the best
The best one was the one we did on a whim in one hour in a parking garage with no lights on a 7d
And then now we've got all this red footage with the color grayed and do all the stuff and it was just it was honestly
It was a nightmare for me. Yeah, you know
I was just thinking about is like when you when they spend money on these videos like that's literally like
It's going back to the business side like that's an investment like so
Yeah, if you have a good video like that could make you millions of dollars. Yeah, like these videos go viral
You know you have a good song. That's cool. But like you get the video you get the whole package it goes on
You know so like you're really in that when you buy these videos you're really investing in your brand
So it's a no-brainer. Bye today. Bye now. What does Ben always say?
Bye now. Bye today. Don't delay that. Bye today
No, but I feel like red knees to step it up, bro
Red I buy all my shit. So I'm gonna tell the truth. Like I don't care. Have you heard of black magic? Yeah, they're cool
I don't like them. I don't like them either the
What do you call it?
Reliability shit. So it's like we can't be doing all this. We can have monkeys sipping lean and then the camera turns off
Yeah, yeah, but red like if they want to get into the music video world, which I don't think they give a shit
Then you gotta do better, bro
Because it's like you can't go past the native iso is I think 800 so if you go past it gets noisy
So night shoots
Music videos you have darker skin tones. Good luck
You know, it's just not getting getting it's not practical. Good luck getting a kid coming up
Who's
You 10 years ago buying a fucking red camera. Yeah, you're not gonna get anyone
You're not gonna get people don't want to spend more than two grand on a camera nowadays
I don't care how good you can shoot fucking any of these music videos on a $2,000 Sony camera or Panasonic camera
I mean, it's not about the equipment. Like you said, it's it's it's about everything else. Yeah
I mean, there's so many there's so many other things that matter besides like resolution
Yeah resolution just some marketing bullshit, bro, you know, I mean like you gotta know how to use the equipment
Yeah, I mean you go when you go to the movie to the movie theater, bro. It's usually like a 2k image
And most Hollywood movies get mastered in 2k because it's too expensive to do 4k
You know, what's the craziest shoot? I was just thinking about the monkeys
I was like, yeah, is that was that the craziest one or can you think of one that was crazier like you're like?
I can't believe this this is going on. I think for me personally like stepped on was like the video
with Pee Wee because I didn't even know this till like later that night when we wrapped up
But like he was going through like a legal situation and it was pretty serious at the time. Yeah, and you know, it was
everything like we
we wrapped up
Went back to like the studio
his lawyers walking up like, you know, like super happy like, you know, hey, everything is like resolved
Like, you know, like you weren't at fault and that's what they, you know said
And then she was telling me like what was really going on and the fact that he was shooting a music video
And doing all these scenes and just the way his demeanor was that day. I was like, man, this guy's like insane like
To be able to keep his composure
like doing this
you know
While he was going through a really serious situation personally, you know, and no one knew right? Yeah, it made me like
Not not just get more respect for him, but just know that like it was crazy like damn
Like he really did this shit
And you couldn't even tell like for face value. I mean
Back to like the persona shit, right? Like all the shit people rap about like he was really that fucking guy
Right, I got him to like crawl on the ground and like roll over on stairs and all this kind of shit
Because like he respects me and what I my vision is as much as I do his
Like he believed in that enough to do it, right?
Wearing a $6,000 outfit, you know $1,500 shoes like he really got on the ground for that video
I can't get enough, you know and crawl down the stairs get all that and you know
So it's like, you know
Gotta love it, right?
Oh, so what you do, man every day all day
Oh my the director
Oh look see like on his collar
It was like a real it was a snake that Gucci had on their camp in their line of that season
And we had the real snake from that oh really on his collar because he said Gucci on my collar in the in the verse
You know, oh so you get deep with some of these shots. Yeah, I mean if you like those people that like sit there like
You know look at this shit and like, you know, like
Write it out and find all the hidden meanings and shit. There's so much here
And this is like right here
This is like a like a like a little like intermission part where there's some like church music in the back
This part's under the song, right? No, it's not. What do you think of a little dicky?
He was dope. I mean, I haven't heard shit from him in a while though, but he's like his music video with the save that money
I always think of that because you're talking about like how much his shoots cost like I haven't seen it
But I remember reading about it. It's like he did it for three years on my yeah
He tried to do it as least cost as possible and it actually came out pretty cool
You know, he just likes a little dicky because they're both Jewish. Yeah, are you Jewish, bro? Yeah, that's what's up
pork chops, dude
Yeah
That's cool
I went to business school, man. That's what we do. Did you really? Yeah. I have an MBA. Really? Yeah, I didn't even know that
That's why I can see the value in Omar. That's what I learned in school
That's the smart side of the table. That's what to look for look for skills
Yeah, we're not in the world. You guys. Yeah, you're just a face. We're just the pawns. Yeah
That's dope though. No, but it's like it's interesting. That's my favorite shot shooting through the the screen of the altar
So that that wasn't even an altar or a confessional confessional. It was a 1999 little thing from home depot
That's a screen. Yeah that I made look like
That was sick dude that that was like and that like I had no choice because no church would let us do that
Like that's like the whole like scandal ship was going on with the catholic stuff
Yeah, and they were like no like you cannot go in the confessional and shoot
So I was like fine. We'll just make something. I saw a thing. Um, that was so sick
There was some music video that was shot in the church and they got in big trouble for letting it happen
Yeah, it's probably this one, bro. I got a crazy voicemails
It goes from like nice to like aggressive to like death threat
You ever you ever worry about that kind of stuff like like because I know like in the rap game and I'm like super not in the
Rap game so like in the rap game like, you know, that's what makes you such a good interviewer
Yeah, I'm like Howard Stern. I'm like, yeah
Like, you know, these guys like have people that don't like them or whatever
And then like if you're friends with Gucci and they don't like him
They probably won't like you and then that makes you like a target. You know what I mean
No, I mean, I've never really thought about it like that because to me it's like I'm not I'm not Gucci man at the end of the day
So, you know, but you're his posse. I'm really not like I'm just the director doing the video. Yeah, you know
But like when he makes the song called Omar
We made that. No, I know but when the rappers make that that makes you like you're his boy
I mean, yeah, I mean, I guess
With P. Yeah, that is my boy. But like he doesn't do he doesn't have that kind of energy like he's not putting that energy out in the world
He's a musician. So yeah, I don't I don't think I'd be scared. I'd have like a armored car and yeah
Yeah, I mean, I don't think at the end of the day
I don't think I don't think Omar would be would be shooting videos with with dudes who had a lot of people that
Wanted to fucking kill them or something. Yeah or that too though
I mean, I guess to answer your question like
I do say no a lot not just because it's like dangerous or something
But right you have to know like what's you have relationships. You have to maintain. Yeah, I'm afraid of people all the time
Yeah
I'm afraid everybody do
Yeah
Exactly which which also kind of sucks at the same time because it's like if you go to the mall
Like at Nordstrom's like they don't care like where what you do or it's so much easier, right? Like
You know, yeah, so but but I guess in music for some reason it's like more personal
But you definitely have to know like one to say no and
Yeah, and one to say yeah, but it's also a luxury. But if you have it, please
Do it
Please
Where you wish you would have said no
In the past probably but like I don't like to repeat history. So not recently though
You know, I feel like if someone like really can't afford the video that I don't do it
Or if they're having to laziness though, I mean if they're because I feel like they're gonna expect too much out of it
You've ever throw anybody free video like just because you're like, you know, like I know this guy's good
I know he's gonna be up and coming and like, you know, if I throw him a video now
I might you know help them out to to you know, like if you at this point
Like if you believe in them, like if you believe they really got potential
But you might be able to find somebody at this point. I don't man because I don't even gamble and shit
I say that's a gamble. Yeah
I've done videos for people
In the past because I just wanted to do it. Yeah, but it wasn't because like oh, they might blow up. Yeah
But I mean on the flip side of that if you really want to make it if you're not established
You want to make a name for yourself? You should do as much free shit as you can. Oh, this is like
That's a different question. That's a completely different. Yeah, obviously feel like that will help you then you should do it
Right, you know, but the problem is from what I've like been hearing it doesn't really work out
You know, so you think that from the beginning you said Yo Gotti was your first major
He was the first one. Yeah, was that like the turning point where it's like this is like
You know, like if you could think back, was that the turning point where it was like
Everybody started calling me after I did the Yo Gotti video
That video went viral. So that was it before like that was the thing
It was a big deal at that time in those days. I think so you should take Yo Gotti out to like Waffle House or something
man
We had plenty of dinners at like Ruth chris and shit like that, bro. He's uh, he's a man
Yeah, I guess you get to go to the high class places, right?
Extra but I've done a lot of his videos
We actually one of the last ones I did though was
The one he basically put out right before he signed his his first like big deal with epic
Yeah, really? Yeah, you shot in Miami like at my condo, believe it or not. That's hilarious. Yeah, which is pretty cool
That's so sick
and uh, I love that you guys just rolling up into Ruth chris
There's probably like all old people like all like trying to be quiet having like and then you go up in there with the Yo Gotti
That's hilarious. Yeah
Shout out to Ruth chris
Shout out to waffle house
Great, this was an awesome podcast two hours two hours of straight straight heat
And I feel like I got nothing out there into the universe that I wanted to really well what what else get it out
Get it out now. Let's get it out. Here's what they should take away with the video
Omar's the best if you invest in Omar video you get a good return
Tampa right now though. How far 30 minutes probably 30 minutes
Let me see this guy
Any shout outs Omar
He's probably got a lot
I'm just thinking like if you want to I love this fucking video look I want to give a shout out
I'm gonna do a little cryptic shout out because I think it's cool. Pull up that step down video
I notice all your videos you have like colors popping. Yes, because that's what I you know
I feel like that helps your you figure out what we're doing
What about the the tag the Omar the yeah, yeah, yeah
I mean, who is it?
Uh, I don't know who it is, but I paid someone to do it
Isn't the same one you've always used you know, yeah, yeah same one
You know fiverr
No, no, it's actually a producer from Tampa. His name is L. They're craftsmen
He's the one that I was like, you don't need to tag. I want someone saying my name
But he's the one that put that that together like finding the person
Putting that cool echo on there like that was his genius, you know
Do you think girls are like need like in order to have rap video you need to have girls in it
Or is that no I don't because some of my biggest videos have no girls in them. Yeah
Like there's no girls run off on the plug, right? No
So, how do you know when to use them or not?
Oh, it just feels right. It was I mean, yeah, I mean it's all about the idea for the same time
Like I don't think you could go wrong with having a girl. Yeah, you could throw a girl in and it won't ruin it
Well, that's such a big component of rap though. Would you ever consider doing like consulting for other directors?
Yeah, yeah, I do all that shit, bro. That's see that that's like good money doing that
I really feel like I have a lot to offer these brands bro. I'm like
They're just they're so oblivious
But like a lot of these brands like they want to get into the culture. They want to understand it and it's a lot to go
Over so much fucking money for it. Yeah, bro. Like but you have a good grasp on it
You know, so like and you have the business side of it like, you know
No disrespect at any of this. I'm hoping to catch up
But I don't want to be a situation where like it's they they get hit too late
Yeah, because that doesn't help me like I want my flash it now just say everybody else
You know like like if you needed like this sounds really weird
But like rap tutoring like your business bit Mr. Businessman you want to get you know, sell your stuff to the rap game
Yeah, like these guys they're good rappers, but they might not be the best at business
So like the directors have to do both sides of it to make it happen. Yeah, do you do any management? Do you manage any people any artists?
I got one artist right now. I don't want to say his name yet though because we're not ready to go out there
But yeah, I mean that goes right along with video. I just feel like it was some situation where
It made sense, you know
Just play it
Damn his grill is pretty pretty
Looks pretty expensive
Oh his grill. He has a new one now with diamonds in it
Shout out that person right there, bro
That's like my secret weapon. I think shout out to the shout out to the girl with the blonde hair and the golden pistol. Yeah
I don't know if it's blonde. That might be gray. Daniel. Is that gray?
Put in the you can put in the comments who you think it is
Yeah, shout that right there, man. That's my secret weapon, bro
My secret weapon with a weapon right there. Shout out to her. Yeah
Tell her be careful. That's what's up. We got Peewee hitting back so we could you got you could tell me who's yourself
Yeah, we got any news for us to Peewee. Oh god. This is yo
Hey, man. Hey, these people got a question for you, bro. What was my question?
Shit, I'm gonna let you talk to them. Here you go. Hey, make sure the mic can hear him
What's up, dude? How you doing, man?
Look at this. We're doing this podcast here. Look at this. We got we got microphones. What's up, we?
What's up, man? Yeah, we're talking about your with your boy Omar. We're talking about how legit his videos are for you
How what how legit Omar makes videos for you?
Yeah, yeah, definitely
Again
Damn, you know, I like looking you're the only person on FaceTime where I like looking at their teeth
Ask him about asking him about the Omar song the song about Omar. What about it?
Ask him say what's up with the song about the song about what you wrote a song about Omar. What's up with that?
Oh
You got any more questions for him, I don't want to take up too much of your time, man
I know Omar's a man. Look at him. He's chilling right here. Hey, see you soon, bro
All right, Pee Wee. All right. Thanks, man. Appreciate it, man
See
Dude, he's the fucking man, bro. Dude. All I saw the whole time was just straight diamonds. It's like freaking zales or something
Bro, I don't think zales has those diamonds. No, I tell you what. He had a smile on his face the whole time. He's talking to me
Bro, that's the real deal right there. Yeah
I think I don't think met him. So you kind of know what I'm talking about. Yeah
He is he's the real fucking deal man. Well like look at like freaking you have
Just any like people like listen to these rappers on the radio and you're just like, oh, let me call Pee Wee real quick
Omar's my dog. That's just so cool. No, it is bro. I think it's definitely special. I'm not gonna downplay it
But yeah, it's cool. That's super cool. But I like what we do together more. Yeah
So when you when you hit like when you hit it super big and you're millionaire
What kind of car are you gonna buy? I know he's not already millionaire
Car um, I love cars by the way
Just uh, I've you know, I've owned a lot of cars ready that I love like what was your favorite one?
I don't want to put it out there. But um
Like yeah, I mean, I would I would love to own like a lambo or something like that. Yeah, that'd be cool
No candy right candy Cadillac or something like that. No
Not my style. Yeah
The foreign I know you folks with the foreign cars. I that's how you like all the colors and stuff
I see like oh, yeah, yeah, you can get like a captain crunched Cadillacs and stuff
Lime green like a vent door super velochie, you know, ready to go. Danny's got the plug on lambos. Yeah, do I?
Yeah, with that lambo video. That's got. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I do have the plug on lambos
You
