Alright this video is sponsored by Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community
with over 25,000 classes in design, business, and more. Premium memberships give you unlimited
access so you can join the classes and communities that are just right for you. Whether you want
to feel your curiosity, creativity, or even your career, Skillshare is the perfect place to keep
learning and thriving. Join more than 7 million creators learning with Skillshare. Join groups
with like-minded learners, give and receive feedback on projects, and speak with others
that have the same interest as you. I personally enjoyed a lesson on Skillshare called Working
Not Working which is geared towards educating freelancers, creative freelancers in brand
elevation and earning more money. Skillshare is giving away a free two-month unlimited access
trial to concrete subscribers who click the link in the description box below. After that it's only
$10 a month. We are finally back on the concrete podcast. It's been a two-week break. It's been
slow around concrete for the past two weeks. Got some changes. Some changes. We've been going
through a lot of changes, but today's special guest, you have spent over 10 years, over a decade,
in the federal penitentiary for trafficking cocaine in the 80s. You were part of the
cocaine cowboys days. After what? The cocaine cowboys. You were after the cocaine cowboys,
but you went to prison in the 80s, right? A little bit in the 80s. The tail into the 80s.
Well, wait. We've got to officially introduce our guest. Our guest today is, he wants to be held
anonymous, so he's wearing a bright orange ski mask. We're going to go by the name Johnny Appleseed.
So Johnny Appleseed. Oh, Johnny Apple. Are you originally from Florida?
I'm not born here, but raised. Where are you originally from? The northeast.
So how did you end up in Florida? I was a child. I had no choice. No choice?
So your parents came down here? Down here at three, about three or four. And you went down to,
you originally moved down to South Florida or Pinellas County? Pinellas County.
Okay, okay. And how did you originally get involved in the drug world? Where did it begin?
Take us to the high school days. The drug world began in the high school. He's probably ninth
grade right here in Beautiful Seminole. My friend, skater, I was a skateboarder, surfer,
that type of, you know, bad, bad, bad, bad guy that put a skateboard in the locker.
A lot of, like, just like us. Yeah, exactly. But missed first period always because, you know,
it was hash time under the glass. Speak a little louder. It was hash time under the glass. You
got a raspy voice, so speak up. Johnny Boy's a little raspy because he went out last night.
Went out last night, okay. Yeah, but don't tell anybody. All right, so yeah, tell me again how
you started and got involved in the drug business. Started selling hash, blonde, Lebanese hash, then
to black, black tar hash, and then it just took off from there. Marijuana, the gold bud back in
the high school days was gold, like his shirt. I mean, gold, gold. Weed? Weed, yeah. Okay. Weed.
And then that floated on for a while, probably about six, seven years, you know, then high school
ended, they, you know, escorted me out. They said, we've had enough of you. You got kicked out of
high school. Of course. They said, Johnny, we've had enough. Yeah, they said, Johnny, take your board
and go on down the hill. And how old were you when this happened? Probably about 16. 16 years of age.
Right in. So what happened as soon as you got kicked out of high school? What did you end up doing?
Straight into the drug world. Bam! Straight, you were already in the drug world because that's
the way you get kicked out. But I mean, that was just, yeah. So that's when you got introduced to
the hardcore drugs. Hardcore drugs. Which is what? No, it was marijuana. It was marijuana for the
first few years. Okay. Got introduced to the voice of Miami, the keys, and it was all marijuana then.
So that's the only thing you did for money? You never had like her? No, I worked. I worked like
restaurant jobs and, you know, odds and ends, construction, that type of stuff. Did you ever
do commercial fishing? No, never. Where was the marijuana coming from back then?
It came from Columbia. And it came from Jamaica, the Jamaican tie. But everybody's into marijuana
back then. And it was so different than the Coke world back then. There wasn't all the killing
and fighting and all that crazy business. You know, people, you know, they treated it like a job.
It was like a regular job, you know? Yeah. But once the 80s came and the Coke started flowing,
everybody stopped the marijuana and got right into the cocaine and then came the boat racing.
Wait, wait. Didn't you tell me that you were one step away from Pablo?
That was in mid to late 80s. This is okay. So this is down the road. This is down the road. Okay,
so you got involved in Southern Florida. You eventually went down to Miami. You moved down
there? Moved down to Miami, upper keys. Okay. And why did you move down there? Who did you meet
that convinced you to move down there? To get away from here. I wasn't too much trouble.
Oh, okay. You just moved down there just because. Not because of drugs, just to get away.
That's where the drugs are coming from. So I figured I'd just. So you go down there and what do you do?
Cook up me some guys through my roommate up here. We started going back and forth. It was so cheap back
then. So cheap. $19 round trip from Tampa to Miami. I mean. For flying. You ever fly a round trip?
How much? $19. God damn. Fly down car in the airport from their family. We look like rock stars.
Go to Skip's Rock and Roll Club on Madeira Beach. That was a famous place back in the day.
Grab a date, fly down, look like a hero, and come back like a zero. So are you bringing it back on
the plane with you too? No, no, no, no. That was just fun time. You're just traveling down there.
Okay. So let's go back. You moved to Miami. Moved to Miami. And who did you start? Who
did you meet? Who got you into the business? Like what did you start doing for work when you first
got to Miami? Sending weed. It was all weed. Okay. You were sending a weed around the car.
Where were you sending it to? People were coming and picking it up. From where? Picking up.
They're from all over. Like all in the middle. Wisconsin people are coming from. They're coming
from New York, Texas. I mean, all over. We just load their cars and send them up the road. And I did
load a couple and drive myself. You drove? You drove to Wisconsin? All the way to Wisconsin.
How much weed did you have? You have 10 minutes for me to tell you the story. I'm just kidding.
How much weed did you have on the trip? We had a pickup truck with a camper on the back,
which took a pallet of wood. Five sheets on the bottom. Real. Five sheets on the top. Real.
The whole inside was hollowed out. Filled it full. 600 pounds. Put bands, strapped it down,
and drove all the way to Wisconsin. Damn. Long drive. Put them, got up there. Put the money in
and drove back. How much money did you make on that load? That was only like, for me, only like
three or four thousand. And who were these guys and where were these guys from? These guys were
South Florida guys and the guys up north were like, who knows? I don't even remember how we
met them, but they're good. South Florida guys, were they Hispanic? Were they white? No, they're
white. White guys. Like red necks. What happened then? What happened next? So you do some trips
with those guys and then what? Trips with those guys. I lasted a while and then everything slid
from marijuana into cocaine. How did that happen? Started in the boat racing world. That's about
mid, mid offshore power boat racing. You're like, you got this weird kind of whisper going. Sorry,
Johnny boy. It's just hard to talk to you. 85 to 86. 85 to 86. So boat racing is popular down there.
Transition from marijuana to cocaine because of who was in the boat racing world.
Okay. Can you elaborate on that a little bit? Well, we raced one season, met all the guys.
I remember those long cigarette boats, the super long and the cat boats and the okay.
The ones that go around the Buies and they like flip over, they go so fast. They do like straight
up pitch pulls. Sort of like over here in the clear water. Okay. But I met Captain America.
He was like our main connection, a Cuban guy. He was a Mary Alito. His name was Captain America.
Well, his name was Omar, but his boat name was Captain America. Omar. Okay. A luskere.
Omar, a luskere. He's not with us anymore. Rest in peace, Omar. Goodbye, Omar. But I met him.
He's a remind me. Talk with more of like a full voice. He was our connect in Miami.
Okay. Our big connection. Okay. Say the street price was. And he raced speed boats. Like he was a
speed boat man. His name was Bo. He had his own team. You gotta have money to race this public.
Yeah, he had a ton of money, but he was selling drugs on the side. And he was Mexican? Or wait,
no, you said he was Cuban. Cuban, Cuban. Okay. Mary Alito came over in the boat lift,
but he was smart. Engineer got houses in the gables, houses in upper keys,
you know, million dollar race boat with the puller. And Omar was multi-millionaire.
Multi-millionaire. He was direct connect to, you know, Pablo. The guy named Pablo. Mr. Escobar,
himself. Garvia. Yeah, direct connect. So if the street price was 20, we're for just a kilo.
For a key. We were already 3,000 ahead. So we're getting it from him cheaper already.
By getting it from him, he was. So how much did you sell it for? So you're getting a key from
Omar for what? 17. Yeah, for 17. We're already 3,000 ahead. Right. All right, got you. Street
price is 30 or 20. You're getting it for 17. You're getting it for 17 from Omar. So we're already
ahead of the game. How many of these things are you slinging? More than I could handle.
Really? Every time I go to this little shop, they put a duffel bag in the car. And I said,
I don't want a duffel bag. Just take it. Gringo, take it. They gave me more than you wanted?
Always. Oh, wow. Really? One or two duffel bags more. I don't want any. And you told him,
you're like, I don't want that much. I said, take it. I don't want it. Just take it. Pay me when
you can. Really? And bring me Ruvio Sita. What does that mean? Blonde hair, blue-eyed chicks.
Oh, that's a good one. That's all he wanted was blonde hair, blue-eyed chicks. I come to the keys
and potty. Oh, my crazy, crazy. So how old are you when this is all going down? How old? How old
were you? 24, 5 and 6. 26-year-old, 25-year-old in Miami, rolling around, pulling up to Pablo's
right-hand man's house, and he's throwing duffel bags in your car. Duffel bags full.
Okay, so how much money or how much cocaine are you selling every week? And how much money are
you using? Like on a good one, on an average. I mean, is it a key a week? No, a key a week,
fucking 10, 15. 10, 15 keys a week. 10 or 15 kilos a week. You're moving. And I'm sending
shit all through the mail, all over. So you're making an over $30,000 a week just in profit,
just in your fee? Probably somewhere right there. Off the top. But I mean, you know,
fast as it came in, it went out. Right, you're spending as fast as you get it. Yeah, limos every
night. What are you buying? I mean, hookers. I mean, we didn't have to pay for the blow. That
was the only good thing. It was cheap. We were on fire. I'd make a thousand that's been 10.
It didn't matter. Wow. How long did you and Omar work together?
So we went for a trip to Panama and never came back. Probably about two, three years.
He went, you went to Panama with him? No, he went with somebody to go see,
supposedly Pablo. So I'll be back in a few days and he never came back.
So why was the race boat, why was the race boat industry or why were, you know, the speedboat
racers so tied into the cocaine business? Because I think my take on it is because
the Cubans could speak Spanish, never went with the Colombians. That was part of the thing.
And that is just took off from there. And they could transport it fast on the boats.
The only speedboat racers were Cubans? No, no, no. There's all Americans,
there's every kind. But I'm saying the ones that were in the drug world
were Spanish. Were Spanish. Yeah, mostly Cubans. So do they use these boats to go back and forth?
Or what? I mean, those boats don't go long distance. No, no, they did some, but mainly it was just,
you know, air drops, you know, or I'm trying to figure out how to get from. I'm trying to figure
out the connection for the speedboat races to, to the cocaine. Well, I don't understand the connection
there. They just had the money and that's what they were into, was racing boats? Or were they
removing the boats? Exactly, that's what it was. They're into racing boats. And they had a lot of
money. Money through the coke. I mean, right. And the boat, the boat business is a good money
laundering business. That was like the Don Arano story. That makes sense. They saw the Don Arano
story from cigarette. Who's Don Arano? Who's that? The guy who started cigarette racing boats.
Oh, okay. Was Don Arano. He was part of that whole, that was a little bit before me. But, um,
the main players were the Seahawk racing team, the Willie and Sal, Willie Falcone and Sal Magluda.
They were the big boat racers. They were the big boat racers. When did they come into the picture?
They were in early 80s. After Omar disappeared? No, no, no. During the whole time. Before Omar.
They're all friends. If it was all friends, they were racing. We're like, okay. We're in Key West
of the offshore races. And they ran out of some party goods. Somebody had sent a chopper up to
Miami, pick up Johnny or two and fly back to party on. Really? These guys had money. They
did. How did you meet Willie? Willie Falcone? Through the boat racing world. And then I met him
inside in federal prison. Oh my God. But he's a serious player. He's out. They just caught his
brother. They were looking for him for how many years. He was like the money man. They caught him
in Orlando, like maybe eight, 10 years ago, right in Orlando. And they made billions, not millions,
billions. Did I say billions of the B? Yes, with the B. Willie made billions.
And then Sal's doing life. He's done. I think there's like 11 murders in the case. I don't know how
Willie got out of that. Oh my God. 11 murders there. Better watch what I say. Holy fuck. And you're
26 years old in the middle of all this. So wait, is this the prime middle of it all? Have you seen
the cocaine cowboys documentary? Yeah. Is this in the middle of all that when all those murders
are happening? It's sort of right around that, but a little bit to the left and we were to the right.
The boat races were, but that was at that given time, the godmother of cocaine. Griselda. Griselda
was involved with all that. And she had her hit man. But that was like, I went around all that
area. That was like, they were so crazy. So you never met Griselda or any of her people? They're
too crazy. I don't know if they're crazy. She killed everybody. She killed everybody. Then
she got whacked when she went to Columbia. Did any of your friends get murdered? Any of your
close friends get murdered in Miami when you were doing all this? No. No. No. Okay. Just prison
times. That documentary made it seem like it was a bloodbath in Miami. No, it was a bloodbath. It
was a true bloodbath, but I wasn't involved in all that. I mean, from the marijuana's change
to the cocaine. Marijuana's like mellow. You could have been at nine, 10 o'clock.
Everybody's chilling. Yeah, chilling, self, double bag of weeds. A lot different than
something banging on your door at two in the morning all whacked out on below.
Because they always want more, right? No, always want more. But even if you're at a bigger level.
And marijuana wasn't as lucrative as cocaine because it was a lot bulkier to go a lot more
space, right? Yeah. So, okay. What was the quality of the cocaine back then compared to
nowadays? Oh, don't remind me. Johnny Boy doesn't partake anymore. Right, right. But if you did.
That's what it looked like. Can you see this? Yeah. The salt lamp? It looked like if you took
a tarpon and just scaled it, shale the shell off, it was just like sparkle and just like,
really? Johnny Boy's sweating. And Mr. Apple seeds hot over here.
It's apple time. Holy shit. So, what happens after Omar doesn't return? Then what do you do?
That's your main connect, right? Yeah, that was our main connect. And you're flying all around,
you're flying all around the state, all around the country with all this cash in your pocket.
Shipping it in the mail. You're just basically living. Who cared if you lost? What was life
like? You were just living but... Living, didn't know nothing about credit card,
just cash, cash, cash. You could fly anywhere, anytime, under anybody's name. They didn't ask
for ID back then. I was like, OJ Simpson running to the airport. It's Mark Avnet. It's Mark Avnet.
I'm late. Here you go, Mark. Here, fly first class. Oh my god. That was crazy. So, yeah,
then what do you do when your connect's gone? Connect's gone. It all starts slowing down.
And then Johnny Boy got in a little trouble. How'd you get in trouble? What happened?
Took a kilo. Nobody brings dope into the keys. I took a kilo, two kilos into the keys. Why?
To sell, to sell to somebody. How did you get them though? Because Omar was gone. No,
I found another connect. You always keep one or two more connections in your main, you know?
Yeah. But I took it in. Why did you take it to the keys? You just knew you could get rid of it.
That's where the buyer was. That's where the buyer was. And this guy gave it to somebody. He got
set up and calls me with the feds. For another one. No, it calls me and says they don't want it.
It's gonna pick it back up. Yeah, and I said, no, I'm not taking that thing back. I mean,
that thing is beautiful. I mean, it was nice. And he's taping me during this whole time. I don't
know that. I just told him, drop on the ticket. I don't care. I'm not taking it back to Miami.
So I call my buddies in Miami another set of Cubans and said, hey, I'm bringing it back up.
See you in 45 minutes. I go to meet the guy. Because they didn't want to drop on the ticket?
Yeah, they didn't want to drop on the ticket because he was already setting me up.
I pull up to a fast food restaurant. So you come to pick it back up? Pick it back up.
So he told you he got in trouble? He didn't tell me he got in trouble. He called.
And so they called later that day. Oh, so he got caught after you gave him the
kilo. Exactly. And then they basically got him to set you up. Exactly. And so they're telling
me to meet me back at the same place. Okay. I go in. And you said, no, you said, no, I'm not going.
No, I said, I don't want to take it back. Drop is nice. There's no reason why I take it back.
I said, drop on the price. I don't even care. I'm not going to drive out of the keys.
It's easy to drive into the keys. Hard to drive out. Go back to pick it up.
Okay. So he didn't want to drop. He said, no, I don't want it. So you agree to go back and get it?
Pick it up. Yeah. Okay. And then shoo, like swooped in.
Where were you? Where was it? On US Highway 1, a little fast food restaurant.
What fast food restaurant? The Dairy Queen. I think it was Dairy Queen. Her Burger King,
one of the two. I walked in, made a phone call. You walked into the Dairy Queen,
you got a pay phone? Made a phone call. Yep. Made a pay phone. Made a phone call.
Walked out. And next thing I know, guns are all over me. Cops everywhere. Cops everywhere. Surrounded.
As soon as you make the phone call. Right after. And there was no- How many cops?
Do you even see your guy? Or no. Do you see my guy now? You just get off the phone and there's cops.
I was probably calling him. I walked back out. Cops everywhere. Front, back, all around guns drawn.
Fuck. They put the cuffs on and, you know, Johnny Boyd. A little, just a little crazy.
How old are you now at this point? I'm probably 28. 28. Okay.
They say, Johnny Boyd, you have two choices here. And they're surrounding me. They put their guns
away. I'm cuffed up. They said, you can either, um, we can take you to Miami and we can go to jail
or we can call some of your friends, you know, and set them up. Johnny Boyd says,
I think we got three choices. I said, three choices. And this is FBI, DEA, and local police.
They say, well, what do you mean three choices? I said, I could run and you could shoot me. And
they said, get them in the back of the car and get them out of here. Johnny Boyd, you're going to jail.
Yeah. They took you to fucking jail right there. Right there. And then, when then I went to a little
substation in the upper keys, and it's a very small place, four cells. I see people I don't know,
the first cell, people I don't know, the third cell. Guess who was in the next cell, the guy
that I was selling, the kilo too. Yeah. The guy who set you up. Even after you snitched you out?
Yep. They took him to jail. He went to jail. All you do is keep his mouth shut. Johnny Boyd would
have got him an attorney. When they were setting people up, when they would tell somebody that
we'll work with you if you can snitch out a couple of your friends, they would get those people,
that person, a rat, and then they would still, they would just not honor that. They would just
still lock them up, not do it. They would just lock them up for a little bit and then they'd let
them out. Oh, so they would actually do something for them. They would work with them. Because do
you know you're set up as soon as the cops come? I knew I was done. But do you know you're set up
by that guy? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So when you see him in there, you know he set you up. I said,
what's going on? Why would you do that to Johnny Boyd? Yeah. And what's he saying? You just keep
your mouth shut and you could have got out on bond and maybe an attorney. What could he say?
He knew he was caught. He knew that we knew. What did he say to you? Nothing. I'm sorry.
Older guy, older than Johnny Boyd at the time. So how much time do they give him? I'm not sure
to tell you the truth. I got five years. So you get five years. That's it for one kilo, five years?
How much would you get now, you think? For one if you were going to trouble about the snow,
about the snow, about the sand. Well, I don't know, maybe one. We had Tampa Tony on it,
but he got busted with like tankies for his first charge. And then the charges are different. You
have guidelines to follow. But this guy was an idiot. You know, keep your mouth shut and get
out on bond. You know, work it out from there. So what was prison like at 28 years old for five years?
Where's the prison in Miami? You go to holdover. You go to like a holdover and you travel around.
What's a holdover? A holdover like a federal holdover, like a holdover federal facility.
You're doing that weird whisper thing again. Okay, sorry about that. Johnny Boyd's a little
harts. We had to cut you off very quick because your mask was getting too hot and you needed to get
a more breathable mask so you wouldn't sweat so bad. It's a little hot in here. Are you feeling
better now, Mr. Appleseed? Yeah, Johnny. All right, so let's go back. We want to go back to when
you're moving. Before you got locked up, were you getting high on your own supply? I mean,
that's like one of the cardinal sins in slinging dope is don't get high on your own supply.
Well, they say that, but when you have so much cocaine, can you really do it all? I mean, you
have a double bag with 10 kilos in it. Right. You know how long it would take to do 10 kilos?
You die. I mean, yeah, a lot of a supply of McDonald's drops. Ronald McDonald would probably be
chasing me down. They ran at a guy. Yeah, yeah, I know he is. Yeah, the coke was so good back then.
You didn't need a lot. You know, we'd stay up all night partying and let's go back to the boat
raisin world for a little bit. You know, the boat raisin all had to take physicals and all that.
The doctor at the end of it all started telling all the drivers and people in the boat. Yeah.
Lean back. We got to see inside your nose. They've been doing so much blow. Because they know
everybody's on blow. Blow. End the boat on blow. Really? They take their own little bottles.
Who was now? Who was drug testing them? Association, boat raisin world. Like being on cocaine would
affect your driving skills. Well, I mean, you're driving. You can't drive a fucking NASCAR and be
on cocaine. The drug was a different era. The drug was so good. Everybody knew that smoking
coke was bad. Now they call it crack, I think. Is that what it's called, crack? Yeah, it's called
crack. So, were you guys ever smoking it back then? No, we were supposed to smoke it. Everybody
knew that. But I'm not going to lie, Johnny Boyd, take it wild a couple of times here and there.
What did they call it back then? Free bass. Free bass. Right? It wasn't crack back then. Yeah,
nothing free about it either. That's called free bass? Free bass, yeah. But it was like Richard
Pryor. They bring it back. I never really cooked it myself, but they bring it back and had ether
involved. And that's how Richard Pryor, the comedian, caught on fire. Really? Yeah, he tried to put
ether on it like after the war. And his rig blew up or something, right? Yeah, something blew up.
He's on fire. Richard Pryor was free bassin? Oh, yeah. It's a very known story. Oh, I didn't even
know that. Yeah, he's like, the cops came, the fire department came or something. He was in the
house cooking up and it blew up. No way. That was an ether blew up. And then a few good bands back
in the day. Casey and the Sunshine Band. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Casey, Heavy on the Smoke. Heavy on the
Smoke. Woo. Hey, so what other celebrities are around like back then? Back then? You see like
partying. You're out there partying. Miami. It was like the Madonna era. I mean, I didn't see her.
Yeah. Doing it was all that kind of era. I mean, all the clubs were. Are you seeing like football
players and stuff or? Well, down there, I really didn't know that many football players, but everybody
was partying back then. Everybody was partying. I'm talking about the mayor was partying just like
New York. Remember, what was that guy's name? Oh, they got in Canada. They got cars smoking crack.
Yeah, yeah, that guy. No, but Miami in the 80s, it was just once the 80s in the drug world slowed
down, they put all the laws and started arresting everybody. Like half the bars of Fort Lauderdale
went out of business because of all the drug money. There was a bar called Sundays on the
Bay. It's still open. All the dopers would come. Some of these guys bar tabs for a Sunday afternoon
was $8,000. I remember exactly for a bar tab for a bar tab in the afternoon. Johnny boy one night
did partake in the party with the boys and they remind me, Hey, don't you have to run these two
kilos up to Palm Beach? Damn, you're right. Johnny boy is going to get all ass. I'm driving on 95.
Fading, just ready to fall out. Johnny boy is a fucking tired. Because you did part it all right.
I said, Damn, what am I tired about? I reach under the seat, cut a window, bow, bow, bow.
Hit the road. It was like the fucking Wild West, huh? Oh, super Wild West met my connect.
Usually had a little system. We'd go eat lunch, buy some clothes, shoes, whatever. Yeah. And
here's your shit. Give me the money. Let me get the frig out of here. Oh my God. It was the Wild West.
People are ripping each other off, shooting. I mean, it was just like people getting their arms
whacked off for a Rolex or the machete. That was just going to stop like if you're in a convertible
and have your Rolex hanging out, somebody's going to get it. And they would just machete your fucking
arm off. That's the crazy crack people that they call them now. But back then it was just like
they were just whacked on the freebase. It was so strong, very strong, 10 times as strong as the
stuff that they smoke now, but not really sure. I don't really smoke it. But Johnny boy did part
take one time. Wow. All right, so let's fast forward back to when you got locked up and you
met the guy in the cell block three that ratted you out at the Dairy Queen. Cell block three.
The guy who ratted you out at Dairy Queen. Yeah, his name was Pablo too. Also Pablo. Was
his name really Pablo? Yeah, his name really was Pablo. Wow. Where's he at now? I'm not sure,
probably, probably dead. Then they took me to Miami. They took you to Miami? Miami. So
there get sentenced in federal. And you get five years. How long did that take?
Months. You go over months, wait for all that stuff to happen. But then at that time,
all the guys in the upper keys, all the Coast Guard station is in Alameda. So there was a whole
error when all the Coast Guard guys we've gotten in trouble. They would call the smugglers and say,
hey, we're heading out in 20 minutes, boatload of stuff floating, get out there and get back,
grab what you can and go. And then they get broken off. And they get some. So they would
Coast Guard guys. Yeah, Coast Guard guys. They all got. They would tip off the pickup guys. They
picked. So you got 20 minutes to grab what you can and go. And they would pay the Coast Guard
or they would just give them Coke. Pay them cash. Pay them cash. Okay. Wow. And they got busted?
Five or six of them didn't. No way. The late 80s, whole big error. Jesus.
Didn't tip off the job dealers. They grabbed some Coke, slipped some under
under their vests. And then they'd sell it to somebody that they trusted. Johnny Boy got a
couple of those. Did you really? They were going for 24 to 26. Coast Guard guy had it.
I paid 8,000. Sold it that afternoon for 25. I gave him a deal. It took a thousand off.
25. That's where you call home run. Wow. That happened a few times, but that's once in a while,
you know. Yeah. And then what happened when you went to court and you got sentenced? Five years.
Did you have an attorney or? Yeah, attorney. So appointed? No. You paid a guy. And then I had a
state case run with that one, too. What was the state case? Damn it. I was Coke too, wasn't it?
Yeah, Johnny Boy got in trouble. You had two cases at once? Yeah. We missed this one. What
happened to this one? This one was, I was meeting somebody and there was a fluke. Total fluke,
if you know what that means. That's just the wrong place, the wrong time. And it was date.
But I think I ought to beat it. But I already got a fed charge, so they just ran it together.
They didn't care. Right. So what, you were in the wrong place at the wrong time? What happened?
Dropping something off in the lower case. You were dropped something off? Yeah. Do you not want
to tell us what it is? No, it was Coke again. How much? That one was two kilos. And how do you
get popped on that one? Wrong place at the wrong time. Well, cops just randomly show up or what?
Next door. Yeah. Thought something was going on. And they were watching the place or something.
They really weren't watching. They just stopped us. The guy in front of me was the buyer.
He took off. He got to go stop me, search, search. It was a legal search, but what can you
say after they've seen the two kilos? You're going to jail. That was it. It seems like you
can do this interview without your mask on. I mean, you want me to take it off? Yeah,
you can take it off. Do you want to take it off? If you're, I mean, all this stuff you've been,
you went to prison for, you did your time. I mean, are you, what are you afraid of?
Why do you want to hide your identity? There's still, there's still people around.
So you could, just because you're telling all these stories, you're kind of worried?
Yeah, you should keep your identity. I think I should too.
Oh man. There's no reason for the people to know who Mr. Johnny is. So you got sentenced to five
years. Where'd you get, where'd the ship you off to after Miami? Ship me off to
North Florida. Went to federal prison camp. That's where the boys from Wall Street and
bankers, you know, and you play handball and easy, easy camp. It's camp, low, medium, and
penitentiary. Okay. You don't want to go to the penitentiary. You're a camp. I'm at a camp. The
lowest. The lowest to the low. Yeah. Why do you get sent there? Because you got no previous charges?
No previous, you know, no violent charges. Exactly. But I worked my way up to the low
and got out. I got in trouble. You know, camps, you can do anything. You can wear the clothes,
you can have watches in them, cell phones. Right, radios, TVs. Did you meet anybody interesting
when you were there? Oh, at the camp next to mine in North Florida was, it was a softly camp.
Who was at that one was a pretty famous guy and at my camp. But that one was one of the guys from
Studio 54 in Shrager. He was from Shrager hotel group. He was at the camp. He never heard of
Shrager hotels. No, no. Delano in Miami and like 10, 12 properties all around the country. Probably
before my time. Yeah, it was before your time. Studio 54. You remember that? No. You don't remember.
We heard it. We heard it. Yeah. Yeah, Michael Jackson. Right. Everybody. Blondie, you know,
all these people were hanging out there. That's when cocaine was glamorous. They made it like
the rich people were doing it. The global super people were doing it. Wall Street. Wall Street.
Yeah, I was with the Wall Street with his kid. Leslie Roberts, he was there at my camp. His uncle
owned Alcoa, still being traded on the stock market now. I guess he scanned them out of like,
I don't know how many millions, but he had a jet flew around, lived on some lake and book over
town. I mean, he was at Scheister. Total Scheister. He Scheistered some of the drug dealers out of
their money after he'd already been in trouble inside telling how to trade stocks and there's
nothing. Wow. I guess once Scheister, always a Scheister. What was his name? Leslie Roberts.
Leslie Roberts. The Wall Street with kid. The Wall Street with the black guy? No, no, no.
Wait, wait, God. Okay. There was a Netflix documentary. There was a few other guys. There's
a couple guys. A lot of bank robbers, but nonviolent. You know, no shooting. We had the Reebok Bandit.
The who? Reebok Bandit, they called him. What did he do? He would go in the bank,
real athletic, jump right over the counter, clean the doors up, and jump right up when they
had a print of a Reebok. In and out. In and out. And they finally caught him. Then Gainesville,
the baby bank robber, goes to the vault, comes out, shoots the camera. He's lucky, only got nine
years, shoots the camera, ricochets, hits a computer, running out of the bank, the die pack falls out.
They think it's pros really just fell out of the bag. So they think, oh, these guys are professional.
He's the baby bank robber. I love the picture of his baby face. It's 17 years old.
That's crazy. So you were only in that camp or whatever for five years?
No, about three years. Only three. Because you're holding for a while before you get there.
Three on five. The guidelines change. Now you do 85% of whatever time it is. Now there's no
or back then. Now 85%. What was your back then? It depends on where you fell,
where you fell on, what time you got in trouble, and they all got out while my friend.
You weren't just like a pawn in this whole thing. You were actually like people actually
waited on it. Were you an important piece of the puzzle or were you just like a pawn?
No, I was, a lot of people were pawns. But you were a pawn, right? You were expendable.
Exactly. Everybody else in that business. Everybody is. Pablo, we axed him, didn't we?
Pablo. But everybody's expendable in that business. Everybody.
So you get out and all your buddies are doing the same?
Give me a half a kilo for me to keep. Soon as you get out.
What happened the day you got out? What happened when you first got out the first time?
When I first got out, 12 friends of mine were waiting on me, picked me up at Miami Airport,
and it was on. So what do you mean it was on?
Party and drink. They got kicked out of every bar. The day you got out?
The day you got out. So the whole time you're in there, you're not thinking I'm changing.
You know when you get out, you're going right back to the same ship.
You think that. And then when you get out and you have nothing left, they hand you a half a kilo,
keep that for you, make the money, get back on your feet, the other kilo burning churn.
We need some money for that one and you're back on. Bam! 14 months, 12 months later.
Click, click, get it again. You got busted again. Yes.
Now wait, when you first got out, when you first got out and they were all basically like treating
you like it was your homecoming, were they basically like rewarding you for not ratting
out anybody or like not switching out? They were happy that you didn't roll on anyone.
These were guys that I met inside. But all my friends outside were still the same,
but most of my friends outside were not dope dealers. You're not worried about them thinking
that you snitched on anybody or anything? No, they know I didn't. I was only the one kilo,
so the only guy I could have snitched on was nobody really.
Okay, so what did you do for the uh, what did you do for the couple, the year after you got out?
Party. The year after you got out, what did you do?
I sold a cleaning product and some tanning oil as a front and got right back in the cocaine
business. All purpose cleaning product, I had a van, I had a job.
Why, because you have to get a job or what? Oh yeah, you always have to have a job,
but I was already back at selling. I mean, are you on parole?
Yeah, on parole. So you get out on parole. On parole.
And you have to get a job. Have to get a job.
Okay, so that makes more sense. So Johnny Boys ran it all around selling
cleaning product and blow it at the same time. And you're already a decent salesman anyway, so.
Yeah, I guess, I guess my product was good. You're like 31, 32 now.
The cleaning supply is good. Cleaning supply is real good.
Going wide open. Top gun sales guy. I think I got an award even. Next scene out, bam!
You can come back out. How long are you on parole? Why?
Somebody rolled in four years. So you're on parole for four years after you get out.
And you get popped within the first year? A little bit after the first year.
A little bit after the first year? For 14 months, you said.
So. Duped. Kids staying in school.
Explain to me how you got popped. So how does that want to know?
Somebody set me up on that one. Again. That's the only way.
The feds have a 97% conviction rate, meaning that if I got popped with a kilo
and said I wasn't guilty and wanted to fight it, if you lose, they're going to give you the top
of the guidelines and say you can get nine or ten. If you fight it, you get four or five.
If you say I agree, I'm guilty. Why is that?
They want their conviction. Because it looks good for them.
Because they want to fill up the prisons? Or is it about the war on drugs?
But they never want to lose at trial. Exactly.
That's where they have 97%. Is that for packing statistics on the war on drugs?
Or is that for filling in prisons? And why are they so incentivized to
convict all these people for drug cases? Well, they want their conviction.
They want the conviction number one. It's not just a big, it's a money machine.
Prisons are run for profit. And there is prisons that are run by
separate, not by the government. You can invest in a prison.
We can own our own prison. And you get money per inmate from the state,
from the feds. So you have to fill it up. I do remember
Noriega was at the holdover in Miami. They called him pineapple face.
Noriega? Yeah, he was a big hook hander there. Oh yeah, huge.
He had his own private cell. He wasn't allowed in population.
They walked him at night. I mean, he could go outside at night.
But he had only like a room probably half as big as this. Nice.
You know, probably his wife a lot. I don't know if she's allowed to spend the night
or whoever she was. Supposed to be his wife. Yeah, once we get your clause and you're done.
And then you had already been in prison for five years. They caught you again.
What was it like when they caught you the second time?
Was it guns out everywhere? Same as the first time?
Where did they pick you up at? The second time?
I get popped at, again, another fast food restaurant. I think I should stay away from
fast food restaurants. But I'm at a fast food restaurant. They whip in,
check the guys in front of me. They had money in the thermos. They got away.
They checked me. They kept the two kilos. It's a state charge.
That's when they had me in custody. Then the guy rolls and then just came and
put the charge on me. That's what happened. The first charge was just straight. I forgot
about that. Yeah.
Johnny Boy gets a little mixed up. So now how much did they get?
Now what did they pop you for? Another five? No, they popped me four.
They wanted to give me five years. No, they wanted to give me 10 years.
10 years, a second time. 10 years. And then you went out.
I did seven on 10. Seven on 10. So I made my 10.
Seven years when Johnny Boy realized he was in trouble again.
So you missed the 90s. All the 90s.
You weren't even out of prison from 91 to 99. You were in prison.
90, yeah, whatever. About 92, almost 2000.
Wow. All the 90s. Things did change. Not too much. But we already had cell phones.
Just the technology. Okay. So you're in for the seven. Are you going
straight after you get out on this one? Going straight. You're going straight.
Going straight. Done with it all. Change your surroundings. Change your people.
Didn't I meet you after that? You were a little older and wiser. I
met you when I was like 17 years old. Wow. No, no, no. I was older than that.
I met you when I was like 19 or 20. No, bro. Because it was my 21st birthday.
Yeah. Probably my 21st birthday. I was about 19 or 20 when I met you.
What happened between then, about 10, 15 years ago, to where you are right now?
So Johnny Boy's been good all this time. Got rid of, quit doing all the
dealing for the millionaires. Just stepped away. The drug business is gone.
Drug business is over. Totally over. Johnny Boy quit doing drug. He's trying to live the
healthy lifestyle. What have you learned from your lesson in dope dealing and being in the
cocaine cowboy 80s? The 80s are gone. After 10 years in prison. The 80s are gone.
What's your message to young kids growing up maybe tempted to get involved in the drug game,
the drug world? What would you say to them? It's so crazy now. Stay in school. But there is one
saying that holds true. It's not what you know. It's who you know. Is that true? That's very true.
That old myth? It's not an old myth. It's who you know. You can step stones and get way far ahead
if you know the top people. I think, Danny, you know a few top guns around town yourself.
I do. I do. Thanks to you. I got introduced to a lot of top guns. I met our buddy Ben,
who's no longer associated with concrete. Full disclaimer, he is no longer associated in any
way, shape, or form with concrete or any of its subsidiaries. I met him through Mike the Fish Guy.
Mike Bush. You know Mike Bush? A.K. Bushwacker. He's been around. Mike Bush used to buy Johnny Boy
and his friends beer at the Cosway Lounge many years ago. Do we got any crazy stories we skipped
over? What were we talking about one time? We have a few crazy stories. The Don Czar. We missed
the Don Czar. The Rambo story. We missed that whole story. Yeah. Have you ever been to the Don Czar?
Yeah. The Don Czar. The Big Pink Building. Great intro. Great fucking segway. The Big Pink Building?
Now like Pasigryl? Yeah. That one. Okay. Yeah. That's the one. Yeah. Yeah. I went down there with
a friend many years ago. It was one of the biggest land. It's like one of the most iconic landmarks
in Pinellas County. Yeah. Definitely. It was a surprise costume birthday party for one of the
Hubbard's. Right across. One of the Hubbard's. The people who owned John's Pass? Yeah. Yeah. That
same family. I forget who it was. Me and a friend went down there. It was like we were in the Rambo
era. So we dressed up with Rambo and had bands and hand grenades and took a certain party. It was
like Halloween. Yeah. Halloween but it wasn't Halloween. It was a summer costume party. Yeah.
Costume party for birthday though. Right. Yeah. We go down to the Don Czar. Me and a friend named
Gilbert. Everybody knew him. He was a bouncer at Skip's Rock and Roll Club. Go down there,
dress his Rambo, took a certain family member mined car, made it look like a tank.
Go down out by the pool. He screams, all right. All bikini tops off. He pulls a hang grenade.
We're throwing black cats. Firecrackers are going off. The police come. They grab Rambo here.
They grab Johnny Boy. They grabs a year going to jail. Johnny Boy. They walk me out, throw me down,
check me, beat me up a little bit. Gilbert jumps in the pool with a straw like you see in the movies.
Breathe and have a straw. Where did he get the straw? I don't know where he got the straw.
It was some girl's cocktail. I'm not sure but he's breathing out. He says, hide under the water.
Breathe and have a straw. Hide under the water. It's a pool. Johnny Boy but he's underneath.
Like they can't see the fucking guy in the pool. No. No. But people are full. People are scrambling.
Police are called. They arrest Johnny Boy. Throw him down on the side. Say you're going to jail.
They put the cuffs on big ol' cop. Put the cuffs on Johnny Boy. He can't feel his hand. They take
me to the police station. Little substation, St. P. Beach. Johnny Boy's ready to get out of there.
He's only been there for like 10 minutes in my hand. I couldn't feel my hand. I call the front.
Johnny Boy calls the front and says, hey, we got to let my client out.
Keep going. He's got to go to the hospital. So he released me on R. R. Johnny Boy's family shows up.
In the rabbit? Johnny Boy was done. He shows up in the hovered bar. You can't keep Johnny Boy down.
You get arrested and you get bailed out and go back to the bar. Right back to the bar.
What year was this? 1985. This is before all the prison. Before all the cocaine prison law.
We were just two and a half back then, but these beaches were crazy. I was mostly at the
cocaine cowboys guy on this podcast, the guy who made that documentary. He was actually just
come on here last weekend, but something happened. I want to get the Don Cesar story. Don Cesar's
story's over, but what we want to do is we want to ask you. Ask me anything you want. A couple
stories. Ask me whatever you want. I got all answers for you. My question to you is you started
a certain show and now it's turning back and biting in the butt and you're just a little guy
scratching at the surface trying to make some money and doing doing okay. And these greedy
millionaires. Don't call them greedy millionaires. That's not fair. Well, I mean, you're right.
They all seem real. Don't just assume people are greedy because they're millionaires.
Well, they got that way somehow. But I mean, when you offer them something and then they just want
more and then they want to shut you down. I mean, why don't you tell us that little story? Well,
it's not the same. It's life for sale that show. That's when you started. That's the one I started.
And you started this. I started this. All on your own. All on my own. Well, he helped me. He gave
me some money. He helped me buy some equipment, but he gave me actually one of the video cameras.
He got me a lens. He got me a hard drive, stuff like that. Let's give that back.
It's not that that person is greedy. That guy's not a greedy person. That guy's actually a very
generous person. And so the show started how many years ago? We met and we started filming seven
years ago and we started putting it on YouTube a little over three years ago. And about 2015,
we started putting it on YouTube. And that show took off? The show took off. Like wildfire. Only
after three years. So we started in 2015 and it didn't really take off like wildfire until
summer of 2018. So summer of 2018 after, I think it was season two started. So after
whole, we did the whole season with like 30 episodes, took a little break and then we did
season two. And then about August of 2018, we did an episode where we went to a house for sale
in Weston on the East Coast near Deerfield. And it was Birdman and little Wayne's old house,
the Cash Money Records. It was their old house. We went there. That episode took off like a nuclear
rocket and that blew up the entire show. Now every episode we were posting was getting hundreds
of thousands of views and it blew up my YouTube channel and Concrete, which was the like my media
brand, which is my concrete. So I created Concrete. I created this. I had Concrete.com. I had a
YouTube channel, social media, whatever. And it had kind of like a media company, right? And I was
producing Life for Sale underneath all of this. So once Life for Sale blew up, it elevated my
brain and my company. So now I was still creating other stuff. I was still doing interviews. I was
still doing like other little series. I did a series called Deck Hands that followed commercial
fishermen in Madeira Beach and like the commercial fishing industry, which also blew up. That blew
up almost bigger than Life for Sale, but it was only four episodes. So really anything. So what it
did was it boosted my platform. So he's involved. The show is about him, but you guys aren't making
money. Nobody's making money. Nobody's making money. The first three, four years. The first three
years, nobody's making any money. Just following around, doing videos and self-taught, correct?
Yeah, self-taught. Okay. But when I first put it on the internet, no one thought, everyone thought
that was a stupid idea. This guy's like, fucking YouTube. I guess, whatever. Go ahead and do it.
I said, yeah, it'll be good. It could work. It's kind of like his bastard stepchild for all those
years. All right, let's wrap this fucking thing up. I want to make sure there's a positive ending
to it. I want to make sure that young kids don't end up being a fucking idiot like you were when
you were young. No, I was a total idiot. Stay in school and don't think all that glamour is there.
Oh yeah, it's glamour for a hot second, but the end of the road, the payday is not worth it.
What do you do for a work now, by the way? Let's talk about your glamour days back in the
A's and you're making 50 grand a week. I don't know if we can talk. You don't have to say exactly.
You're a day laborer now. How old are you? 60. So you should be... Let's just say you work a nine
to five nowadays. A regular nine to five. You work hard work out in the hot sun doing day labor
shift. I don't even have to get into all that. Let's just say you work a regular nine to five
nowadays, right? And you're 60 years old. So the drug business did not pay off. That's what we're
saying. It did not. You should let your story be a lesson to young people and to the youth. You see
all that fast money. It's not going to happen. Run from it. There's an old saying, if it's too good
to be true, it is. That's exactly what Tampa Tony said. If you think it's too good to be true,
turn around and get ripped off. If there's any sort of suspicion that it's too good to be true.
It's over. Awesome. Thanks for coming on the show, Johnny.
