Thank you for calling concrete.
Have you, a family member or someone you know been affected by prescription drugs?
How does it make you feel?
Is there something you wish you could change now or in the past?
Are you currently using?
Do you wish you could get off of them?
Are they still fun?
Let's talk.
Feel free to remain anonymous if that makes you more comfortable.
This is a safe space for you to work through your feelings.
We appreciate your courage to confront these thoughts.
First message.
Hello?
Anybody there?
Fuck.
Next message.
I'm 40-something years old and the blues, the Roxy Cotton blues have totally made me
progress 10 years, at least back on my feet to an extent.
That meaning that I don't use every day, like I used to for seven years.
I have a job, I work, and I still party, find myself pretty fucking stupid, but then I'll
ask myself why I do part, why I still use, it's like it makes me feel better.
I just haven't felt normal since I started using that shit, but then I try to think back
if I was feeling normal then, because I've always had some kind of substance, like drink
or cocaine, but it's really when the blues got started, shit got crazy.
I had a nice long run and told you know, the money dried up and looked like an idiot cried
everybody that you're a fucking drug addict.
I don't know what else to say, I probably should have wrote down the questions, but yeah, drugs
are bad, don't do them, don't be a fucking retard, if you're gonna do them, do them responsibly,
don't, if you're doing something every day, even smoking pot, it's not right, I don't know,
your body, your body's used to being uncontaminated as I feel, that's what I, uncontaminated.
I don't know, that's it, bye.
Hey, I saw the post on YouTube from concrete, so I wanted to call in and give my thoughts
on prescription drugs, I guess like you guys, I live in Pinellas County, Florida, and I'm
extremely affected by the pain pills that are prevalent around here, I'd say for the
past 10 years or more, since 2009 at least, nearly every day has been filled with using
oxyconum 30s, multiple times a day, you know, from the beginning, they used to be way cheap
and I could spend like 40 bucks a day, but now it has gotten out of control and here
I can spend up to 180 dollars a day, it's certainly no way to live my life and extremely
affected by it mentally, you know, I just feel like I've wasted so much time and 31
now, I make $53,000 a year of I live paycheck to paycheck because I choose to get high nearly
every day and I've been saying I'm gonna quit for years, I went to one NA meeting and one
powerful quote stuck out to me of HALA, in reality one is too many, but in our mind
1,000 is never enough and once you do one it really never stops from there, it's always
more and more and more, you know, I'll start out smoking weed, which I still think is
cool, I can smoke a bunch of weed and I don't want to smoke more weed, but once you start
doing those pain pills, that's all you think about, every dollar that goes out of your
bank account is shit, that could have been on get high and you think about every dollar
that you could have to, you know, support your habit and feel normal now after 10 years,
you really don't even feel that high anymore, it's more just getting back to what you remember
life being and I really don't know how much more I want to share, you know, I'm from a
very fortunate family and the same, but these pills affect everyone, you know, from homeless
people to people living on the water down here in Tampa or Clearwater Beach, anybody
really, but you know, every day is the choice that I choose to make to continue to get high,
lately I've used I think 2 times so far in 2020 and I want to keep it at that, anytime
I use I never feel good within an hour, so it's good to get these thoughts out there
and again realize how stupid it is, but we'll be fine with something you can use.
Next message.
Hey, what's going on?
I just saw your post on the YouTube pen board and I just thought I would call because I
forgot, I guess like an interesting story, I remember back whenever I was I want to say
first or second grade like I was like eight or nine and I didn't really know like what
what these drugs like what prescription drugs do, but I just remember like waking up like
usually my mom would always come with me up for school, you know, get me ready and I
like slept in really late and I was like it's super weird.
It's like a Wednesday, it was like a Wednesday or Thursday and I was like that's super weird.
I don't know like why my mom let me sleep in.
I remember like waking up looking for a show in their bedroom or anything and then I go
out in the living room and I see her, I see her sitting in like we had like a big like
lazy chair.
She's just sitting in her chair and she's just staring off like she's just staring off
like in the space.
I was like mom like like I was like mom ready like ready to go to school and I just remember
her like it was so like crazy to me.
My mom later ended up telling me that like she was just so stressed out that she had
a their called oxycodone or oxycodone or something and she had taken a couple of those and actually
had like paralyzed like not paralyzed but like partially like it made her body half her body.
She couldn't move it.
She wasn't responding to me.
She's just looking at me.
I remember that and it was just so crazy to me.
You know it's hard like like seeing your you know your own mother like that you know that
it really like it hurts you like you know that's the person that's supposed to love
you unconditionally and you know they're hurting.
Like it's still I just remember or just like I was talking to her mom like what's going
on like she wouldn't answer me and I called my stepdad and he came you know came home
was like shaking her she's like come on get up get up like what's going on.
She's still conscious at this point you know and we have to get ambulance and she ended
up getting like getting the helicopter.
Next message.
Next message.
Hi I just wanted to share my experience as a mom and maybe shed some light or give some
hope to other mothers or families that are struggling right now.
We went through almost 10 years of drug abuse with a child a parent first nightmare of course
nothing that you ever want your child to grow up to be an addict but it happens and it happens
before you know it and you try to help over and over again.
I remember going to a city council meeting in Clearwater there was the meeting was about
putting a ban on the pill mills opening and I went and they asked me if I wanted to speak
I said no I'm just here to listen and then as I started meeting and talking to other
moms that were there our kids all shared the same doctor they all were on the same prescription
drugs I had never met these women in my life many of them found their kids dead in their
beds surrounded by their pill another mother had to go in her son's room and clean up after
he shot himself because he didn't want to be a drug addict or a burden anymore and my
son was in prison at that point and the first time somebody ever hugged me and said I wish
my friend was in prison and it just broke my heart it still does to this day I have a
hard time talking about it but we got to visit our son prison actually saved his life we
remain strong as a family to visit and letters and pictures going to the prison eating all
kinds of stupid snacks and laughing but we all stayed together and we made it and I just
want people to know that if you are going through something like that there's hope for you there's
people out there that love you and will encourage you it's just hard to know what to say but like
I said there is hope our family stayed strong through everything our son came home stronger
happier and healthier than he had been in a long time he found love and got married
and we all stayed together next message literally every aspect of my life has been changed
because my parents were on purpose at and they were getting prescribed by the doctor
because once you get hooked on it it changes your whole way of thinking it's because that's
all you think about that that that becomes priority number one your kids aren't the priorities
number no more they're not priorities number one my mom and dad me and my brother we weren't the
priorities no more it was first let me get the pills then I can take care of uh jammy and jeffrey
like you know jammy want to play cello oh uh I can only use this money for uh for these pills I
ain't got enough money to get them a new cello jammy want to play sports now man we can't get
you new cleats jammy we can't get you no gloves we can't get you the material we need because uh
we we barely making enough money for these pills and then when she's off the pills my mom ain't
doing the pills she's all she's erratic she's emotional like my mom and dad when we were little
they used to think they used to as a kid I remember going to the doctor because they thought I had
to rest uh because I used to uh do this weird little it was like a little tick but what it was
was uh life was so chaotic that I used to I uh I had to have some kind of consistency in my life so
I would do I don't I don't really want to talk about that but um you know it was fun I was so
nervous when I was younger because uh my mom and uh uh my dad every time they get around each other
they start fighting because one of them one of them must have been going through some withdrawals
they hadn't had their fix for the days they just blow up on the littlest things and I remember
when I was younger every time I'm going up to her asking about something or showing her a project
I did I used to collect rocks and uh I showed him to her and she was disinterested in it at the
football game she didn't really care so that kind of shit I should have talked to you when you were
younger and uh it's not it's not it's not maybe an anxious person like I'm 24 years old now everything's
gotten a little bit better but it it it encompassed everything it made school harder I couldn't talk in
school it was very weird because some years I'd be the class clown making everyone laugh being
very charismatic and outborn in other years I'd be shacky I couldn't say a word just because I
hadn't nobody talked to about my problems what was going on the teachers didn't see it the teachers
didn't notice it or either they just they I they didn't care or whatever but I mean that shit
I'm lucky to even be in the situation I'm in right now because every single one of my family members
they do purposes at the very least and that shit that shit's horrible man especially growing up
around that shit you just it feels like you ain't got a shot uh because you you ain't got no
next message yeah bro pills are fucked up homie uh especially the moxies uh
bitches are no good bro for real my boy his mom just passed man yeah my boy's mom just passed
away from them hoes and then you know I've had problems with them type shit when I was like way
younger bro don't just don't do drugs you know I'm saying like straight up uh
just smoke weed man you're gonna be good you know and pills really turn you into a hoe for real too
but yeah nah they're super addictive too like you're going you're gonna take like two and you're
gonna be hooked forever especially off like sand and shit unless a doctor prescribed you them hoes
don't take them and if they do don't take them you know I'm talking about next message hi I'm weird
thanks for calling your thoughts matter let's talk 727-222-0423
you
