So teach me how not to lose all my money in the upcoming recession that we're about to
witness or that we're already living in.
So first of all, everybody knew this was coming.
And it's a long time.
You know what I mean?
The market's been going up since 2010.
I used to buy houses for $40,000 or $600,000, same exact house now.
So now what's happening is this is a forced recession, by the way, because the unemployment
rates were low.
Everything was going beautiful.
And then, you know, they had to be like, well, you know what?
If a guy bought a house for $60,000 and $2,010,000, and now it's worth $600,000, and the inflation
rate, they suppose he says 8%, but I don't know anything that's only got up 8% to you.
Gas is up 150%.
Houses, like I predicted, went up double what I thought they were going to do because the
supply chain is low and they gave away trillions of dollars.
Where's that money going to go?
It's going to go back on the street, right?
So now they have to force a recession to slow things down, right?
So when you look, the one thing that hurt the real estate the most that's going to hurt
it badly, and it's not even going to be that bad, and I'm going to tell you what it is.
It's the interest rates are going up to everybody's looking, well, it's extremely obvious, right?
Of course.
But what they don't understand is that's not going to control the housing market.
If a two by four costs $8 and a permit to build a house costs $30,000, $40,000, and
a lot is $200,000, how's it going to drop in value?
And what they're not telling you is the hedge funds own 30% to 40% of the single family homes.
So why would they?
Is that how much they really own?
Of course.
Like black rock and shit?
Blackstone?
Yeah.
Well, there's a bunch of them.
I've sold thousands of houses to those two investors who eventually sold them to hedge
funds.
So it's like this.
Here's how it works.
Sky and demand, right?
Rents have skyrocketed.
Florida is the third most populated states in the United States.
People come here every single day, right?
It's hot.
We don't have any state income tax.
People want to be here.
A luxury Airbnb 700 to a thousand a night.
The money is still flowing, but they shut the faucets off.
So the next way they're going to lower the values of the homes.
Watch out when you sell something, you're going to have an appraisal review.
Oh my God, they're going up too fast.
So what they do is the appraisers put the brakes on.
But I'm going to tell you how to defeat all that.
That's irrelevant.
I saw an Instagram, I saw a meme that said, which it's a meme on like a hip hop meme page,
which validates it, in my opinion, that said that sorry, I apologize in advance.
My brain is like human soft serve today because I got really fucked up last night at the hockey
game.
Yeah, bro, that was tough game.
I'm not really a big hockey fan.
I just kind of got into it.
I love it.
The fight is so much fun.
It's incredible.
It's like going to a fight, but like there's a little bit of hockey.
It's like going to a soccer game with a lot of fighting in the crowd.
It's fucking cool.
I really like it.
Super high energy.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Anyways, that meme that I saw, it said that Florida is now the most expensive state to
live in.
Well, it's not true.
It's not true.
California, New York City, but regardless of that, here's what's happening.
The hedge funds are licking their chops because they're waiting to see the sheep dump.
Like just this week, I bought three houses and in the past three, four, five months
previous, I wasn't buying much.
I was just developing my dirt.
So now what's happening is CNN, the communist news network, they're out there scaring you
just like they did with COVID.
They're trying to make you nervous so you could like panic.
So when people are in panic mode, they just make poor choices.
So it's like this, let me give you an example.
Let's pretend you're at a poker table or you're at a blackjack table and you start
with $100,000 in chips and you got a million dollars in chips in front of you.
How much have you made?
Or how much have you made?
If I started out with $100,000 and now I got a million, I made $900,000.
You made zero because you haven't cashed in yet.
You understand?
Okay, yeah.
You didn't go to the cashier.
Your house, you're not losing, you're not making, but it's people's perception.
What people perceive to be real is real, right?
But the houses will drop due to the fact that most people who buy houses get conventional
or FHA or VA loans, right?
But what they're not taking in consideration is the hedge funds buy houses to rent them
because the rents are astronomically high, plus the houses go up in value and they depreciate
the assets and it's better for them on their taxes.
So owning an asset is really a liability because you're depreciating it while it's
going up in value.
You realize your money when you sell it, but you never sell it because you're always barring
against it.
So it's just like a cash register that sits there accumulating wealth, right?
The regular person's taking a beating because they don't know the system.
They don't know the game.
This is basically, their nest egg is implanted in this house.
So the rates have gone up just this year about double.
Like a January 1st, the interest rates were 3%, now they're six and change.
So these people who have gotten loans, anything over 5% during jeopardy of foreclosure.
But how you beat that is this.
Wait, wait, wait.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Say that one more time.
Okay.
I'm sorry, I'm retarded today.
No problem.
So let's say-
You get a loan and your interest is over 5% during jeopardy.
Right.
Due to the fact that your payment has escalated in price.
You know what I mean?
If you go right now and you look up amortization schedule and you put up 500,000, 30 year loan
3% compared to 30 year loan 6%, look how much more money you're paying for that debt, right?
So these people, their houses will drop and then if they bought a house for 600,000 and
they put 10% down, so that means they owe 540, right?
In six months the houses were 500.
So now they lost their down payment plus they lost 40 grand.
If they sell it, they lose.
Then they got to pay realtor fees and closing costs.
So they're already upside down.
So we have to try to figure out how can we get to these people to control their assets.
You make money in real estate by controlling.
Like lease options, you purchased, let's pretend that you have a mortgage of 500 and I come
to you.
All right, look, you owe 500, your house is worth 480, why don't you just deed the house
in my name?
I'll give you a couple thousand dollars.
So basically the mortgage is in your name, I'm the new owner.
You understand how that works?
Because I'm buying it subject to your mortgage.
Then I call your bank, hey, guess what surprise?
I bought this property, it owes this, it's worth less.
Maybe me and you can make a deal where I can just buy this house from you.
I could buy the note.
So this is what's going to wind up happening.
And you have to remember from 2009 to 2012, short sales, foreclosure.
This was an everyday thing.
So people are just coming back and this is what's going to happen again.
We just got to try to figure out how we could control the assets so we can make money due
to the fact that the rents are extremely high.
So pretty sure a lot of investors out there, you know the term hard money, you get a hard
money loan.
You're familiar with it.
Yeah, you buy a house for 200,000, you put 10, 15, 20 percent down, they'll charge you
two, three points, 12 percent, 10 percent interest, whatever.
So these are loans that are usually one or two year balloons.
And these are taken by investors who are going to renovate the property and resell it.
So a lot of these lenders now, they're going to be on the hook because a lot of these people
are not going to want to finish the projects.
So those people are going to be in jeopardy.
The banks, whoever lent these people the money, private individual, whoever it is.
So the way to make money on this is you go to the guy who's a hard money, who has a hard
money loan.
So quick, what are you on this?
Public information.
We'll just look it up.
All right.
I owe 150.
Okay.
It was worth 300 after repair.
Now it's worth 200, 250, whatever the number may be.
So those people are in jeopardy of losing money.
So what you do, so what, so these people that got hard money loans, okay, they bought the
property to renovate it due to the fact that the properties were escalating two to 3 percent
a month.
Right.
Right.
And the longer I take it, the more I make, right?
So now if it takes a little downfall, those people are going to be nervous because this
is an investment.
They don't live here.
And most of these times the property, they lend you based on the asset, not on your credit
situation.
And most of these projects, these houses are owned in limited liability corporations.
And if the lender doesn't make you sign a personal guarantee, you could just give the
property back and it doesn't really affect you.
So you need to source these properties, get a contract to purchase it and negotiate with
the lender.
So let's say a lender, let me give you how you negotiate.
Let's say you owe 200,000 at 12 percent when you're a balloon.
You call the lender, hey, guess what?
Your guy that you lent the money to, I think he's having difficulties is going to pay you.
I want to purchase this asset.
Why don't you give me a five year balloon at 3 percent, 4 percent?
He's like, no, why would I do that?
I'll just take him in foreclosure.
Okay.
So let me just put in a limited liability corporation, claim bankruptcy and you can't
even contact me legally.
So this is, now it's like when two rocks hit together, something's going to break.
If two rams are hitting their heads together, one of them will fall, right?
So the reasoning, all this is happening is due to the interest rates because the higher
the interest, the more the payment.
The more the payment, the less people can afford.
The less people could afford, the less the house is worth.
So this is what's going to happen.
We're going to make millions of dollars during this next crash.
So the housing, the prices of the price of houses and the housing market is going to
go down, you think?
I think it's going to be nowhere near is 2007, eight, nine, 10, nowhere near.
Nowhere near that.
Because I used to buy houses for 40,000 that the dirt today is worth 200.
So and then you got to remember back in those days, people were buying houses, you know,
just to cash out.
They were never going to make the mortgage payments.
Nowadays, the banking is very strict and the, and not only that, the hedge funds came in.
So you have sophisticated money in the real estate game prior to 2007.
Look how many assets, single family assets were owned by these institutions.
Very few.
Yeah.
Now there's multiple assets that are owned by these funds.
So they're not going to dump all their assets because they're going to lose money.
So they're going to look to buy more and check up the rents.
So if you own a house and that house that you own, that you live in, that your family
lives in is the majority of your wealth and your net worth and you want to make money
during this time, what do you do?
Yeah.
Here's what I would do.
I would immediately try to get a line of credit.
You know, I would go to a bank and say, Hey, look, my house is worth 600, I owe 250.
So basically I want to take a line of credit based on your equity.
So how a line of credit works is you pay a payment while you're using the money.
So if you're not using that money, you don't have to make a payment.
You understand that.
Correct?
No.
Okay.
So a line of credit is like this.
You got a half a million dollar line.
Let's just say it's 6% interest only for round numbers.
So you borrow $100,000 at 6%.
That's $500 a month.
You're paying for that $100,000.
That's just the interest.
Right.
Interest.
But you could buy a house.
Like I bought a house yesterday for $105,000, I'm going to sell it for $150,000 in a week.
So the point is you're making money with the money that you have.
You're using your equity to create wealth.
Right.
Right.
Okay.
So this is what you want to do immediately before the house's values go down because
everything is based on current value.
That makes a lot of sense.
So you want to go out there immediately, get a line of credit.
You're only going to make money while you use your money.
Obviously you're not going to go out there and buy a car, get a new kitchen.
Don't do that.
Wait for when people's ribs are showing, where they need to liquidate, and then you go in
there in a strong cash position.
Because like I told you before, there's only three type of buyers.
A buyer who pays cash closes, the data title is ready.
You got to pretend buyer who needs exit strategies, inspection periods, and then you have the
buyer that needs to call mommy and daddy.
Mommy and daddy's the appraiser and the bank.
When you have cash on hand, you're going to go out there and hit home runs.
So when you go out and you get a line of credit based on your equity of your home, can you
have to have a piece of property to show the bank to get that line of credit for, or can
you just get a line of credit?
So basically they're going to look at your house.
They're going to do their own separate appraisal.
But you have to show them like, I want to buy this with the credit?
No, no, no, no, no.
Once you have that HELOC, that home equity line of credit, that money, that's like a
checkbook.
Got it.
Now you could go and buy whatever you want.
Okay.
So you could buy a car.
You could buy whatever you want.
It's your money sitting there.
But you're still going to be at that 6 percent.
Whatever.
I'm not saying the rate, obviously the rate goes by your credit and by your own.
Oh, so it's not based on mortgages.
It's not based on...
No, this is a mortgage, but it's a line of credit.
It's similar to a 30-year, 15-20-year amortized loan, but this is basically a short window.
Okay.
The point is you want to control assets.
Lease options is another way to control assets right now.
Let me give you an example of what I mean.
Let's say you own a house and you can't sell it because you want the moon and it needs
a lot of work.
And the more assets that come for sale, the more picky the buyer gets.
Right now, the buyers are overpaying in the last year because it was a limited supply
and building houses took a long time because the trusses to put the roofs up or take long,
the windows took long.
So there was more buyers than real estate.
Same way right now, right?
Yeah.
It's there, but there's more assets coming on the market and there's being a lot of price
drops because people are nervous and they want to realize their capital.
But I still think it's a foolish move because where are you going to go?
Because you're going to have to buy something else anyway.
But to make a long story short, to make money during this market, you need to control other
assets.
If you could control 50 assets and make 20,000 a piece, it just made a million dollars.
So you have to understand the value of the assets, how you could control it.
Let me give you an example.
Let's say you got a house that I think is worth 500 and you owe 450, right?
I go to you.
You can't sell it.
It needs a roof.
It needs windows.
It needs a lot of work.
I go to you.
Say, look, here's what I'm willing to do.
How much is your mortgage payment, your taxes and insurance, whatever?
And you tell me, well, I owe 250.
This nut is costing me 2,000 a month, let's just say.
So here I could give you 2,500 a month.
I could give you 10,000 down and you have to sign this lease option where I can close
it within these 24 months for this set price.
And you also, this is very important.
Don't forget this.
You would like to do an assignable lease option.
So I'm going to tell you what that means.
The lease, the option to purchase it is in my company name, my personal name or whatever.
I can assign it to another buyer so I don't have to close it.
I could just sell my paper.
You understand?
Yeah.
You talked about this last time.
It's so fucking complicated to me.
It's very simple.
I'm an idiot.
No, no, let's pretend.
I'm going to make it real simple.
You see this bottle of water?
Yeah.
But how do you find people that are going to do it?
It seems like a shady deal.
It's not.
Listen, listen, listen.
If you want to lease, listen, listen.
If you came out to me.
I'll lease option every property that I own to you.
Right.
But if you if you walked up to me and you fucking salt said that shit to me, I'd be like, no
fucking way.
But let me ask you, would you be willing to rent one of your properties that you wanted
to rent?
Hell yeah.
It's the same exact thing.
I'm leasing it with the option to purchase it.
All that means is I'm going to rent your house, but you're, you're letting me one day buy
it from you.
That's all it is.
I understand that.
So why?
Why do you think that's bad?
I don't think that's bad.
I just think that the way that you described it with like saying that you need to have
all, you need to have a clause in that agreement saying you can sell the paper.
You can buy it.
When I sell, sell the paper.
Here's what that means.
If I choose to put my mother in here, if I choose to put my father, my friend, a guy
I just met at the club, he, he could take over my terms.
Okay.
He is now the new tenant.
Okay.
I got you.
I understand.
I see what you're saying.
And they're still going to get paid.
Well, how many people do you hear that do Airbnb?
A lot.
And how many of those people rent houses to re-rent them Airbnb?
Have you heard of that?
Say that again.
Okay.
So let's pretend that you own a house.
You're going really fast in my mind.
You're going like half the speed.
No, you're fine.
That's how you roll.
I love it.
So let's pretend that you own a house.
Okay.
In a desirable neighborhood.
Right.
And the rent is 10,000 a month.
Okay.
And I like to do Airbnb.
That's my job.
That's what you do.
And I come to you and I say, listen, the rent here is 10,000.
I will pay you 12,000, but I'm going to rent it air.
I'm going to be the guy on the hook.
You're renting it to me, but I'm going to re-rent it Airbnb.
That's like subleasing.
Right.
Exactly.
You understand now?
I understand.
Okay.
So a lot of people do that.
They like, I'm building four houses on the river right now.
So how do you approach people like that?
You just hit them up on Airbnb or do you hit them up like you find houses that are already
for rent?
Well, I don't hit up anybody.
That's not my business.
I'm just saying people do that.
I don't do that business.
I only work with properties that I own or I want to own.
I don't pimp other people's trash.
That's not what I do.
If I wanted, I buy it.
If I wanted, I figure out how to control it.
Okay.
So you want to own it?
But there's a lot of people who don't have the resources to own things, but if they want
to make money, they have to try to figure out how to control it.
This is why I'm telling you.
Being the asset is where you make money.
Let's say you got a million dollars and you buy five houses or 200 grand a clip, right?
That's a million bucks, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
And you sell them, you make 10,000 a piece.
You just made 50,000, right?
But if I could control 100 houses with 10,000 apiece, the same million and make 20,000 apiece,
I just made myself 20,000 times 100.
How much is that?
Two million.
Exactly.
On one million.
Right.
So the name of the business is to control the real estate.
Right.
Got it.
And the reason I'm telling you this is because people are nervous now.
They're looking for exit strategies.
This is the way to do it.
You negotiate with hard money lenders.
You negotiate with people in trouble.
You negotiate with homeowners.
This is just phase one of multiple phases.
Okay.
Let's say, okay.
We got the hard money lenders.
We got the homeowners and we got, who else?
People who own land.
Let's pretend you own a piece of dirt.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Let's just use, let's just use somebody with a house, for example.
I want to buy your house.
Do I find, am I looking for people who have their houses listed for sale or am I looking
for people who are just, just random, do I walk to my neighbor's house and protect this
town?
Here's how I would do it.
Me personally.
I would get a good real estate agent, a broker, whatever.
Right.
A broker that's been there for a long period of time and then they're dropping the prices
continuously.
Now, let's see how much money they owe.
Let's see if they have back taxes.
Let's see if there's code violations.
Okay.
We're trying to attack the runt of the litter.
Right.
The guy, like I'm telling you, he's, he's in a situation where he needs money.
Okay.
Yeah.
So we need to find, or we, listen, like me.
We're praying on, we're praying on the week.
Not only that.
You need, you're praying on the strong as well.
If a guy were to come.
Hey, there's nothing wrong with it.
Of course.
I'm with it.
Danny, if a guy came to me right now today, said, Brian, look, I want to do a deal with
every single piece of real estate you own with a lease option or owner finance.
I'll sell them everything I own because I'm going to set it up what I want.
You understand?
Cause when I do a deal, I want you to be happy and I want to be happy.
I want everybody to be happy because I never want, here, listen, I'm not a butcher.
I'm not coming here to buy the cow and butcher it and dump it and I'm done.
I mean, that's cool when there's a lot of supply, but if I want to continue to make
money with you forever, I'm going to figure out a way where both of us are extremely
happy so we could continue to move forward.
But to answer your question, every deal matters.
Every deal makes sense.
The only thing that changes is the numbers.
How can I make money?
You make money and the guy I'm selling it to make money and everybody's happy at the
same time.
Okay.
So walk me through.
I found a house.
So I found a house, a guy who's at a house listed for six months.
He's been dropping his pants on the price for six months.
He can't move it.
It's been on the market for way too long.
I got a hard money lender.
I got a guy who's willing to give me cash to buy the house.
Now what?
I don't want to deal with that guy.
No, no, no.
I'll tell you what.
I want to buy that deal, but I don't need that hard money lender.
You never need a hard money lender unless it's an absolute necessity.
Let me tell you what I mean by that.
You're the homeowner.
I don't need a lender for what?
You're going to be my lender.
You the owner of the house.
So even if you have a mortgage, I'm still going to figure out a way to get the deal
done.
So here's how I'd say, look, you own this house.
You got to list it for 500.
It's only worth 450, right?
Right.
Here's what I'm going to do for you.
I'm going to buy this house off you.
How much money do you owe?
Let's pretend you owe 300.
I say you're selling it for 450.
By the time you pay your real estate commissions, your closing costs about 10%.
So 450, 45,000, 405,000, let's just make it four, you owe three.
You only have $100,000 here.
Right.
That's what you got.
After it sold.
I say, here's what I'm going to do.
I'll give you 20 and I owe you 80 and you're going to deed this property in my name.
Okay.
So your mortgage tax insurance is like 1500 a month.
If I can re-rent that for 3000 a month, there's 1500 equity.
I'm going to give you that 1500 till I pay it off.
So now once, so if I give you at zero interest now, so if I got to take 1500 a month, which
is 18,000 a year.
So basically in five years, I'm going to pay that debt.
You get it?
So I'm going to pay you that extra, I'm going to pay your payments plus 1500.
So in five years from now, I, I paid you off and I still got that debt and that debt, the
original mortgage has gone down because I'm paying your payment.
You understand?
So I'm controlling your asset, but meanwhile, while I'm buying that property, I'm trying
to sell it to my tenant or some other investor where I can get more money.
Got you.
So now I control that asset and I'm making double my money every month.
Got it.
So you're basically like, you're renting to own the house with the option.
But not on this situation.
On this situation, he deeded the property to me.
Now I'm the current owner.
The only, the liability is in his head.
Of course, cause now I own this property.
I'm obviously going to make the payment cause now I have something at risk, but when I'm
doing the lease option, I'm looking for equity.
So then I'm in the property with the option to purchase at any given minute that we agree
to.
So now I'm looking for another guy who has very little credit and who has cash that has
a hard time finding an asset to live in.
So I said, look, I got this assignable lease option.
I put 20,000 down, give me 40.
Always, always be upfront with everybody.
The number one thing in life, there's four rules to life, right?
Number one, never waste your time cause it's the only thing you can't buy, right?
Number two, hire a great accountant cause you're going to get fucked if you don't.
Number three, you want to have fun.
And number four, live in your window, live in your lane.
If you're making a hundred G's a year, you ain't buying no, no, no, um, Rory or anything.
You know what I'm saying?
You got to live in your lane, but you have to understand the rules of life.
So make sure that what you're doing makes benefits everyone.
As long as you're benefiting everyone, everyone's happy.
You walk down the street and you're giving everybody pounds and high fives and what's
good.
Everybody could benefit, but my point is in this situation right now, you have to try
to figure out how you can control the real estate.
This is because look, if you buy a house for $500,000 and you ain't got no money and you're
getting an FHA loan and you're paying 6.2%, the interest is going to be killing you.
Not to mention your taxes, your insurance, your refrigerator breaks, your roof is shut.
You're going to lose this house.
What do you say to people who still haven't fucking bought houses?
Wait a while.
Wait a while.
Wait a while.
Wait, wait.
Just wait, huh?
Wait about a year.
I just talked to a friend of mine who, I mean, he's still paying off his college loans
and he was thinking about buying a house two years ago and now he's watching what's happening
with interest rates, with the housing market going up and he just feels like he was left
behind.
And I'm like, bro, I'm like, well, yeah, he missed his boat.
But listen to this, there's multiple boats, though, never, like I'm telling you, what
I'm telling you right now on this lease option, he could do that.
But what it depends, what's his financial position, how much is his rent?
Is it cheaper to own than rent?
You know what I mean?
You have to use all that in consideration.
But listen, when I talk real estate, I never think about the guy who's living in the house
because that doesn't make us any money.
You understand the average homeowner, it's cool because that's going to be the end user.
But the end of the day, that's not the guy I'm looking for.
Does that make sense to you?
I'm going to make money on that guy one time, which is cool.
But in reality, that's not my job.
My job is not to buy a property, fix it and retail it.
That was my job years ago.
That's a slow boat.
You don't want to take no slow boats.
Made him make money.
You want to take the fucking jet skis.
Yeah, you want to take the fast train.
You know what I mean?
You want to be on that fast boat to get the hell out of here, get your bread and bounce.
You know, if you if you could control good assets and neighborhoods that are going up
or if you're on the river, you're on the you're somewhere where you know is going to go pop.
It's going to blow up.
Yeah, then you want to sit.
But if you're just going to retail it, yeah, dump it, get a realtor.
Don't do the work yourself.
It's not worth it because you got to deal with headaches.
Time is so valuable that you don't have time to waste on a person that's going to buy
your house to live there because those are the pickiest people on earth.
Who do you want to sell your house to?
You want to sell your house to another investor.
You want to deal with somebody who knows what's going on, somebody who'd be able to do deals
with in the future.
Yeah, dealing with it.
Dealing with a homeowner.
A person's going to live there is like, is that you ever go to a restaurant and somebody
takes always wants the meal, bring it back, want something for free?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like this is the people that you're dealing with.
Exactly.
You know what I mean?
Like I don't want to deal with that claim.
No, fuck that.
It's not worth it.
Right.
No, I understand what you're saying.
It's better to wholesale it.
Get your money.
Get your money.
And if you want to sit on the asset because you think the value is going to go up and
you think the rents are going to go up and you like multifamily, by all means, get the
property.
See what you can do with it and watch it continue to climb.
So you see this whole recession as a big opportunity to make a fuckload of money.
Of course.
Look, Bitcoin's collapsing.
Ethereum's collapsing.
Oh, I see it.
Yeah, of course.
But that's because what is that back by in reality?
Remember the last time we talked about Bitcoin?
I told you I got lucky.
Talk about it because in my mind, that's trash.
But I invested multiple things because I get bored.
I like to have my money in different avenues and see, I just like to see what's going on.
Do you do sports gamble?
No, not at all.
You don't.
I do not gamble.
I think gambling might be the thing to do in a recession.
Definitely 100%.
That's the worst thing you could ever do.
I think I heard someone, I think Dave Portnoy said that Warren Buffett is washed up and the
only way to make real money in a time like this is by day trading and gambling on sports.
Well, I don't know because Warren Buffett has probably donated probably 100 times his
net worth.
You know, Warren Buffett's 92 years old and his company's probably, Warren Buffett's probably
worth $70 billion.
And he's the most conservative investor.
I don't see how that guy could ever be washed up.
Yeah.
What is his investing strategy?
Isn't he the guy that said...
My good companies...
Who said that for the average person to get rich over time without being in the business
is just investing in the S&P 500 over a long period of time.
Well, one thing that he did, I remember when he invested in the cigarette company, so this
is the greatest company, cost a penny to make.
You sell it for multiple dollars and the clients, they stick with you forever.
So the point of the matter is a guy like Warren Buffett, he's always going to make money.
He's conservative.
He drives the same house.
He drives the same car.
His money keeps growing and he's not looking to be a flashy dude.
You know, him and Charlie Munger, his partner was 98 years old.
But these people live a different lifestyle.
I invest in stocks here and there, but it's boring for me because I can't control it.
If I can't control it, I don't want it.
It makes no...
It's cool long term, yeah, blah, blah, blah.
But if you want to leave your kids money and this, that and the third, that's great.
But if you want to make your own money and you want to be on the block and be your own
master, if you want to master what you do, you need to figure out what you're good at
and make money with it.
And the reason, like I told you, I love real estate because there's multiple zeros.
It's a necessity.
It's a luxury.
And it's probably one of the only things that can't be duplicated because they make fake
cows, you know, fake meat.
Fake meat.
Fake everything.
Are they doing that?
Of course they do that.
But Burger King was given those.
Now they sell out.
Oh, that's the shit that Bill Gates invested in.
What's it called?
Beyond meat.
Right.
That took a dive.
Aren't they kind of try to like actually create real meat with like fucking...
Are they going to actually try to like in a lab, create or engineer biohack real meat?
My time has so much value to me that I can't waste it on things I don't care about.
What I care about is having fun, making money and just doing whatever the fuck I want to
do.
And real estate is a key to get there.
And right now, believe it or not, if you're sitting in a house, you're like, oh my God,
I could have sold this for 600.
Now it's only 500.
Who cares?
If you're going to depend on your primary residence to make money, you're in the wrong
game.
You have to understand what the environment is and adapt because you can't fight it.
You just have to work with it.
So how...
You just bought three houses in the last month or this week?
This week, yes.
Three houses.
So I know almost every investor in Tampa.
Oh, you got a big fucking...
So people always call me with deals.
Hey, I got this because they know I'll pull the trigger immediately.
I don't got to go inside.
Like this house I just bought, there's tenants living in there.
You can't get inside.
They don't pay the bill.
The water bill is $3,800.
So when you deal with a big problem, you make big money because people don't like to deal
with headaches.
Headaches makes the most money.
So what I do is I buy it, dump it to the next guy, let him make a killing.
As long as I can make my money.
I love when people tell me, hey Brian, I bought this house from you for $200 and I sold it
for $270.
Thank God.
Right.
Because they're going to do business with you in the future.
So you buy houses.
You potentially would have a buyer for a house before you even buy yourself.
Yeah, of course, because how I look at it deals like this.
If I'm buying it, if I want to pay this number, I already got three people in my mind that
I would call and what I could get from them and I'd pay below that number.
Because you never grow, you never go broke making a profit.
So you always want to leave a lot of meat on that bone for the next guy.
So what I do is I buy properties, I dump them and the stuff that I like, that's what I keep.
Okay.
How many houses do you own right now?
Probably about 60.
Six.
But with land, apartments, but that's not my thing though.
Real estate, I own a lot of real estate, but it's not my thing.
The reason I say it's not my thing.
You know, I listen to a lot of people's comments on what I say.
Oh, you know, it's why does he dump?
It's better.
You know, he's a day trader.
It's better to hold.
Okay.
Really?
If you work with a certain dollar amount and then you're going to go buy some for $2 million.
How are you going to buy the next thing for $2 million and the next one for $5 million and
the next one for $8 million and this one for $500 million.
Where are you getting this money?
The banks ain't lending you money.
Can't you just put the other shit up for this collateral?
So what you're saying, excuse me, you want me to cross collateralize my other assets to
purchase this one.
So basically, let me ask you if you would do this.
Let's pretend that you want to borrow $20 and you got 500 in the bank.
Are you going to put that 500 to borrow 20?
Are you going to let them sit on that 500 and you can't reuse it now?
Hell no.
Exactly.
Same thing with real estate.
Okay.
Real estate is like this.
It's going to go up to a certain amount, but what I like to buy is land with certain
zonings because you look at the future land use.
I bought a trailer park in 2020 for a million dollars.
I listed it for 4.5.
I got three buyers already on deck and they want to do affordable housing, but the reason
I don't go with them is because they want to take so long to close.
So, and then, you know, the way to make money in the real estate, if you're going to sit
on it, you have to build, buy the piece of dirt, split the lot, build, sell, build, sell,
bring partners in, always use other people's money if you could.
Talk to a guy who used to buy a house, fucking add like three more bedrooms and no, no square
footage.
Just add walls, make more bedrooms.
Yeah.
Because he's probably written section eight.
Right.
So basically he's taken a thousand square foot two, one and making two closets and getting
big checks, but is he pulling permits for this?
I don't fucking know.
Okay.
My point is in life, if you take a shortcut, you're always going to get screwed, especially
nowadays.
You, that right there is only good for rental income based on section eight, because section
eight standards are based on bed and bath count, but that's this.
That's not what I do.
That's like, so, but that's what kind of look what you're doing with land, right?
You say you buy a big chunk of land, section it off.
So let me give you an example.
I just bought a piece of dirt on the river, right?
One of my buddies came to me and say, Hey, Brian, I got the river, the Hillsborough River.
Oh, okay.
Hey, I got this deal for a million bucks.
Okay.
Million dollars.
Not bad.
We bought the dirt and then there was another little lot.
We paid a buck, 30, you know, then we had to clean it, knock the houses down by the
end of the day.
We're in the lots with the docs and everything for like maybe one, four, for, for four, four
lots.
Those lots were 700 a clip right now.
That's 2.8.
We double our money.
Just if we dumped the land.
Right.
So what you want to do is you want to get dirt, let's say a house with a double lot.
So in Tampa, you got a RS 50 means 50 feet frontage, 5,000 square feet minimum.
So most slots are 50 by 100.
So if you got a house that's 100 by 100 with a house, you buy that, you split it, you split
the lot, you sell the house, now you build.
So you have to understand that game.
That's a little complex.
I don't really want to talk about that.
That makes sense to me.
Well, that's what I do every single day.
So I make money on the trash that I buy to dump and I use the money to facilitate my
projects.
Right.
I don't borrow money from the banks.
Like I told you, the bank, the banks is the least placed.
That's the last place that I will go to get a loan because they don't want to lend you
money.
A bank does not want to lend you money.
The only way they'll lend you money is if you work at a, at a fast food joint and this
is your primary residence, you can't afford it because the government backs them up.
The government wants regular people on house.
I don't blame them.
You mean you want people to grow equity minutes.
It's the, because most people, most of their assets or most of their wealth is in their
house.
Right.
So that's the American dream.
But what's happening is with this, what's happening now, I think that American dream
might be done.
And I'm going to tell you why.
Because apartment buildings are being built everywhere.
Look, in California, they're making it illegal to build single family homes.
Are they really?
Yeah.
They're saying it's like a, it's like a racist thing.
It's like a rich people thing because you got 44 million people in a state that they
pay you $2,000 a month to be a bum.
You're living in San Francisco on a $20 million, your guy next door sleeping in a tent.
So the point is the American dream is changing because people are very flashy.
They rather drive a Ferrari and live in an apartment than live in a house and drive it
to you.
I know a couple of guys like that.
But of course I know, I know hundreds of people like that.
The point what I'm getting at is real estate, the smart money, the educated money is jumping
in real estate.
What about in cars?
Can you make money?
Of course there's money in cars because you got chip shortages.
So I got guys buying Escalades F350 sitting on waiting lists, but I'm not going to sit
on a waiting list for nine months to buy a car to sell it and make $20,000 when I can
use that time and buy 10 houses and make $20,000.
Oh, you got guys that are like buying new, they're buying brand new cars.
Yeah.
G wagons, F350s.
And they're flipping them as soon as they get them.
As soon as they buy them, they dump it.
Wow.
Same thing with the watches.
Everything is shortage.
But you have to understand the second that the supply chain comes back, people are going
to be liquidating their asset.
Can you imagine going to the car dealer, hey, you're 60,000, you're in the basement 60 grand
in this.
What do you mean by that?
Well, you all hundreds, we're 40.
So you're going to see a lot of foreclosures and you're going to see a lot of repos on
cars probably within the next two, three years because people are paying over sticker
for cars.
Right.
Yeah.
I own car lots.
I don't even buy cars.
I don't care.
I own a car lot.
I bought it.
Now I'm going to build 10 apartments on it.
What about, what about all your other cut, like your assets, like your trading car?
I told you the baseball cards were the monies that people started laughing at me.
Who was laughing at you?
Some of the people who don't really know what they're talking about.
You talking about the commenters?
Yeah.
But here's the funny thing.
Like the commenters.
Lou Gehrig 34 Gowdy, Babe Ruth 33 Gowdy, Ty Cobb T205, T206, Walter Johnson, Rogers
Orangeby, those cards have tripled.
Roberto Clemente, Rookie, Willie Mays.
Those cards.
Are you selling any?
No.
I only listen.
I only sell the junk.
Jordan Rookie's junk.
That's to me.
That's trash.
LeBron.
Durant.
That's trash because that is.
So let's pretend LeBron James has, um, he something happens where he gets in trouble.
He goes to prayer.
I'm not saying that.
Whatever happens, but let's just say it happens.
Okay.
Let's say Mike Trout breaks his leg.
Never plays again.
Right.
These assets around, they have a value, but in reality, what's the true value?
The true value is what it's worth in longevity.
Mickey Mantling.
Good.
Doing that.
He's in a grave.
He ain't going nowhere.
Right.
Will Chamberlain is dead.
Bill Russell is not dead, but he's a king of basketball.
He got 11 rings.
These cards are going up in value by the day.
Right.
Will Chamberlain, did you hear the story about Will Chamberlain spit in the guy's face?
No, but I heard he, he had like 5,000 women.
Bro.
Yeah.
I heard that too.
That's why they called him Will to Stilt.
Right.
I heard the story.
I forget who was telling it, but one of the guys that played with him was telling a story
on, it was on a YouTube video I watched and they were, they were getting in an elevator
before a game and, uh, some civilian just walked in the elevator, some random guy standing
at the hotel, looks up at Will and he goes, damn, how's the weather up there?
And Will just fucking spits in his face.
Training.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I met Will Chamberlain in a car show.
He was?
Yeah.
Most of these athletes are cool.
It's just that people expect them to be something that they're not and they don't want to be
bothered by common folk.
Listen, you want me to go to you on Publix or you're eating with your girl like nobody
wants to be bothered.
Yeah.
But could you imagine LeBron James spitting in somebody's face, bro, he would be fucking
in jail.
I don't think LeBron James communicates with regular people.
No, he definitely doesn't.
He's probably one of the most loved and hated athletes in the history of the earth.
He really is.
People, a lot of people fucking hate him.
Yeah, they're just haters.
But look, back to the real estate game because this is not making us money.
If you want to invest in sports cards, but Danny, listen, if you want to invest in sports
cards pre-1959, baseball, baseball, you want to buy Hall of Fame players.
You don't want to buy the new junk like, you know, I love Michael Jordan and I own a lot
of his cards.
They're, you know, they're depressed because there's a lot of them.
But at the same time, when you buy vintage, that's where the money's at.
It's just like art.
It's always going to go up.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, when you got Picasso, you know, stuff like that always goes up.
You know what I'm saying?
Van Gogh, stuff like that.
You ever bought any shit like that and you're like super high dollar art?
You know, I invested here and there.
It's just not my thing.
If I don't like it, I don't want it.
There's a, there's this website called Masterworks where it's like a basically like a stock system
for buying art.
Like you can buy shares in like super expensive, fine art like Picasso.
So basically what they do is they buy an asset for a million bucks.
They make a thousand shares and they sell it for a certain dollar amount and they own
a certain percent and then they manipulate it by buying people.
So the property just keeps going up.
Same thing.
They do that with baseball cards.
Oh, did they?
Of course.
They do that with all assets.
They use a crowdfunding platform to purchase this asset and it's like this.
That's pretend.
It's a very interesting way to do it.
Of course.
Let's say you want to own a Mickey Mantle 52 tops and a PSA five.
It's worth $300,000.
And you don't have 300,000, but you could get 10 guys to put 30.
You could get a hundred guys to put three and you control like an HOA that can real
estate.
You control it.
You're the one manipulating the process.
What do you think about dudes?
I don't know.
Have you heard of that dude called Grant Cardone?
Of course.
He's, he's a master at, he seems like a fucking hustler to me.
He seems like a crook.
Well, he's the kind of guy that'll buy a property and then borrow money for the down payment.
But if it's working for him, hey, by all means run and do it.
He also sells, he sell, he buys these fucking big buildings, apartment buildings or hotels
or whatever it is with his online, his internet audience.
He gets them to all invest in it.
Of course.
So he like an assignment.
He does what we talked about just now with them, with the fucking, yeah, breaking up.
So let's say this is a hotel and it's worth $5 million.
You get a contract to buy it for $5 million and then you shell stairs at $6 million.
You just made a million dollars.
You didn't do anything.
But see, look, that's not my hustle and that's definitely not what I'm looking to do.
I never want a headache.
It's just a weird thing.
What I want to do is give people free information so they can get rich.
Yeah.
Listen, by the, let me just say, remember last time I put my phone number on your, on the
block?
I must have had 700 to 1000 phone calls.
Did you really?
Minimum.
Fuck yeah.
And I want to thank everybody who called me and I just love you guys and I hope whatever
information I gave you helped you a little bit.
We got a, I think we have a little bit of a remnants of a real estate following on our
show because we used to do a lot of real estate stuff on here.
Of course, real estate is the key to make money.
What other business do you know that you can make millions of dollars now have a high
school education or nothing unless like you're like a YouTuber or something.
Yeah.
I don't know.
But think about it in the real world, bro, the world's crazy.
People don't want to interact with people anymore.
What do you think's going to happen with all the NFT shit?
What NFTs are taking a beating because in reality, what are they backed by?
You know, a friend of mine is making NFTs with the sports cards and it's backed by the
sports card and a vault and eBay charges like 12 to 13%.
So basically they're just pimping the bully like I talked about.
They're pimping the bully.
They're taking your assets and you're selling, you're doing all the work and they're making
all the money.
So a buddy of mine is making a new thing.
It's called Jim, right?
He takes the card.
So let's say this card is worth $1,000.
You put it on his site, you sell it, you pay 3% and it goes to the next guy.
You understand?
They hold it in their vault.
If you want it, they'll bring it right back to you.
This is going to take over the whole sports card industry because if you go to a trading
show, which is cool, that's what I did for multiple years.
Go there, buy, sell, trade, right?
But you know, you got to travel, you got to go here and there.
But a regular collector, where are they buying?
At these auction houses that charge a 20% big or eBay where the seller has to pay 13%,
so he's going to jack it up.
So there's no free market there.
It's manipulated by these big conglomerates, these big monopolies.
Right.
But is the stock market really that much more credible or more real than the crypto market?
How much more real is it?
Well, if you look at the stock market, sure.
But they're selling products, right?
But that's, I mean- They're selling a piece of their business.
When you buy a stock, you're purchasing a piece of the business.
And when the Fed's had the interest rates at like a half a percent, you're borrowing
money, right?
So you're paying more for the stock because the money's costing you very little.
So now you're able to, look, Netflix was at $700, it's like a $0.70 now.
Tesla was like about $1100 at the beginning of the year, it's like $700 now.
Okay.
Apple was like at $200 to $0.30.
Everything is dropped.
Bro, Roblox was at $120, now it's $30.
So if you look, everything's being devalued.
And then they're trying to blame it on inflation, but in reality, you're raising the interest
rates.
When you raise the interest rates, you have less buying power.
How many times in your life are you studied where the government basically tells you,
we want a recession?
That's what they're telling you.
Right.
Right.
Why do you want a recession?
You know why they want a recession?
Let's say your average Joe in 2010, and you bought a house for $70,000 with a 3% FHA loan,
right?
The seller gave you a 6% concession.
He paid your down payment and your closing cost, your mortgage payments $300, your house
is worth $600,000 now.
You owe 50, you put nothing down.
You never had $1,000 in your bank account.
Now you got $500,000 in cash.
If you sell it, you think you're going to be a liberal communist now?
Hell no.
You're going to be a conservative.
So in order for the liberal communists to stay in party, they got to figure out a way
to screw you.
And this is the number one way to screw you, destroy people's assets.
It's not about inflation.
They lied about inflation.
Inflation is what the market will pay.
If the gown's $6 a gas and you're willing to pay it, pay it.
If everybody stops driving, it'll be $2.
And look at what the tax is on that.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Holy shit.
So you have to understand reality.
Reality is when you're looking at a market and they gave away $30 trillion.
You don't think that- Insane.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Listen.
Let me ask you another question real quick.
I'm not political because politics does not make me money.
I hate politics.
Not at all.
If you got a student debt for 50 Gs and you're going to wipe it out, I'm going to pay for
it.
Taxpayers pay for that.
So if a high school dropout who's a plumber, why would he pay for a lawyer's schooling?
How does that make sense?
Can you answer that?
A high school dropout, he pays taxes just like everybody.
He lives in America.
My point is let's pretend you're a high school dropout and you worked as a plumber, now you
own the plumbing company.
You never took a loan.
You never borrowed money from nobody.
Right?
Right.
But this guy went to college to be a lawyer.
You don't pay his debts.
So now this guy, the taxpayer has to be, if they wipe out student loans, that doesn't
get wiped out.
That becomes a new tax.
Right?
Of course.
When was the last time you seen something was free?
Yeah.
That's a weird thing.
But regardless of that, the whole point is if you want to make money in real estate,
you have to figure out a control the asset.
This whole session that we just did is about controlling the asset.
You have to understand a way to figure out how to control the asset.
Own real estate.
Own real estate.
Do, do like a sub lease real estate, whatever you can do that you could control the sale
or the buy, that's what puts you in power.
Real estate is power.
Find a way to get, to get some fat on the bone, any way you put this or you put this
on the internet, any way you want.
If you want right now, believe me, if you're in the middle, if you're in the market to
buy a house you're going to live in, try to wait a month or two, see what happens.
A month or two from now.
A month or two from now.
What about people who say, here's a question.
What about people who say the market's topped out right now, I got all this fucking equity,
this crazy housing boom has made me a millionaire in the past two years.
Now I have all this fucking equity, I want to sell it and rent for a couple months and
see what happens to the market and then fucking buy a house on the water for a discount.
Try to time, try to gain the system and time the system to where the market, hopefully
the market crashes and then I can take all my equity I got at my house in the peak and
buy something for a discount when it crashes.
Let me just tell you this, if you're a married person, if you make $500,000 you don't have
to pay taxes on that money, but if you make a million dollars on your home, you have to
pay taxes on that extra $500,000.
If you take a line of credit on that house, you don't have to pay any taxes.
Only $500,000, if it's $500,000 or less.
If you're married, if you're single it's $250,000.
So what I would-
And you've lived there for two years too, right?
Listen, I'm definitely 100% not an accountant, I don't have time or the brain power for that.
I just give my paperwork to my Candace, my cousin who runs my business and we deal with
the accounts and at the end of the day, surprise, this is what your silent partner made.
But the point of the game is this, me personally, if I could sell my asset and wait and figure
out that maybe the market or bottom and I could buy something else, I would definitely
do it.
But at the same time, you have to understand the value of the dollar depreciates daily.
So a million dollars today is not a million dollars 20 years ago.
You understand my point?
I totally.
So you have to figure out what works best for you.
Like me, I'm not moving for any money when I'm gonna uproot my family and move to make
a couple hundred G's.
Why would I ever do that?
Where am I going to go?
I could build a brand new house.
So what?
It's not going to be where I live.
If you don't like your place, dump it, get your money, be out.
If your goals to keep moving up the ladder could create bigger debt, higher taxes.
Why not?
Some people try to do this.
People try to climb the ladder by gaming the system, like with the market, the market
going up and down.
Like, I know a guy who does this with boats, like a guy, a friend of mine bought his boat.
He bought this fucking 42 foot yellow fin boat with like four Mercury's on it, bought
it for cash from a guy in Boca Raton for like 600 grand a couple years ago.
He's getting offers on it right now for like 900,000.
Right.
So he's making a 50% profit in that time and you got to pay to store it.
You got to pay to ensure you could buy a Mickey Mantle rookie for 600,000 and put it in your
closet and sell it for more than more than a million.
And it costs you zero to sit on it.
What I'm saying is there's people that try to climb the ladder like that house.
That's a beautiful thing.
That's a beautiful thing.
Everybody wants to create wealth.
And if you could buy something and push it and make money and you know about it, buy
all means do it.
But how fucking bad would that suck if you uprooted your family out of your house and
sold it for a profit thinking that the market's going to crash and never fucking crashes?
Meanwhile, now you're on the sideline watching the fucking thing go up.
So if you ever study real estate, even when the market goes up and down, the next time
it goes up, it goes up way higher.
The watermark always goes up, always goes up because people remember paying X for something.
So it's like this.
If I bought a shirt for 50 bucks, right?
My mind is it's worth $50.
If it's for sale for 2030, okay, but when it goes up, if it's 100, it's 100.
Because everything moves forward.
Check that camera real quick.
In the real estate game, the only reason I wanted to come here today was to tell you
for all the people out there who have real estate, who want to buy real estate, if your
property values drop it and listen, I own a lot of real estate, you don't think I'm
going to lose a lot of money, but I'm going to make new money.
The new money I'm going to make is going to be way more than the money I'm going to lose.
And I'm not really losing money because I stole my assets.
It's just the equity might drop.
But just imagine how much new money you're going to make when you start robbing other
people's goods.
You know what I'm saying?
When you're buying properties for people, they're just getting nervous.
People who get nervous, they're the ones who destroy the market.
Right.
When they sell for a discount, right?
Yeah.
Why sell if you don't have to?
But you know, like I said, the government is forcing a recession.
I have never in my life seen when a government has forced a recession.
And you think they're forcing the recession to fucking depreciate to get people's assets
to lose value?
Well, you know what I mean?
That could be far fetched, but I just think that they're trying to depreciate assets because
the inflation is too high and the regular person doesn't make enough money to sustain
themselves.
Right.
If a car costs 40 Gs before this COVID and now it's 70 and a house was 200 and now it's
350 and a gallon of gasoline was two and now it's five.
You know what I mean?
There's only a certain amount of money people can spend, but you have to understand this
and let me put it to you like this.
Let's pretend that we were making a soup and there's eight people at the party.
The soup is going to be beautiful, right?
But if you keep more people coming, we ain't got no more steak.
We ain't got no more vegetable.
We throw in water in there to stretch the soup.
Right?
Yeah.
Now that soup tastes like dog shit.
Yeah.
Same thing.
We're printing money for COVID.
$1400 for this guy.
This guy it is.
This guy gets $100,000 from this loan.
That loan.
Bro, those loans ain't going to get paid.
Right.
Pay them loans, taxpayers.
So now they want to slow it down.
It's definitely interesting, you know, the prospect of what you're doing.
I've never heard anybody else talk about that shit that you talk about.
As far as like getting, getting, getting your, your fucking elbow deep into this shit as
far as you do.
Listen, if you want to, if you want to dive in, you got to dive head first, otherwise
you ain't going to make it.
If you put your toe in the water, you don't want to be there in the real estate game,
like any game, the real estate, the reason it's not something you could dabble in is
what I'm getting at.
You're fucking hands on.
But Danny, listen to me.
Everybody needs to live somewhere.
An apartment building, a garage, a house, a mansion, a yacht, dwelling is a necessity.
Right.
So somebody will own it.
The hedge funds are licking their child.
Oh my God, I can't wait for this to drop.
Please God let this drop.
So you know why?
So they could come in and swoop it up and then the rents go up higher.
Haven't you noticed the rents have gone up?
Oh yeah.
I've seen that.
No, I've totally seen that.
Even in my neighborhood, a big fucking investment company in like Arizona just bought the house
across the street from me.
They're buying the whole communities.
It's fucking crazy.
Get a little piece of the pie, control an asset.
Let me give you my phone number.
Scoot in a little bit.
Scoot in a little bit.
I'm going to give my phone number again.
Okay.
Give it.
It's 813-857-4104.
Call me on anything.
I don't want a penny.
Appreciate that.
I need you, the world needs you, man, and I appreciate you coming and dropping your knowledge
today.
Bro, always 100%.
Real quick.
Let me just add just one more thing.
Yeah.
The lightning are down 3-1.
We're going to win our third cup.
We're going to take 3 in a row.
Stop.
Why?
Why do you think that?
Because they know how to win.
When you're backs against the wall and you've been there multiple times, there's something
in you that knows what you're doing.
This Colorado team just come out of nowhere or what?
They got a lot of speed.
They have a lot of weapons, a lot of, but the lightning, they got five Hall of Famers
on that team.
That goalie's pretty good, huh?
They got their coach, Cooper, they got Vasilevsky, they got Kutcherov, they got Headman, and
they got their captain.
Bro, they're going to win.
They're going to win.
I want to ask you something.
I know you said you're not a big sports better, but I want you to give me the line for the
next hockey game.
For the series or the game?
No, just the next game.
Not the series.
You just said they're winning this.
They're winning the series, right?
So I think the line on the next game is Colorado minus 160.
Colorado minus 160.
That's what I think.
What does that mean?
What do you mean 160?
So you, so.
I just look at like, so right now, I'm on my bookie.
You have to bet $160 to win a hundred if you think Colorado is going to win.
So on the back track, if you bet 100 on the lightning, you will win 160.
Got it.
Okay.
So right now the lightning are plus one and a half points, aka minus 170.
Okay, right.
So it's close to what I said.
So that means if you bet $100 on the lightning, they'll pay you 170 if the lightning win.
And that one and a half means that the line is that they're going to win by minimum.
So basically it's like two goals because there is not a half a goal.
So if they, if they win by one goal, if you bet that line for Colorado, if you bet that
they win one and a half, if they win by one goal, you lose.
If they win by two goals or better, you win.
Right.
Right.
So they are plus one and a half and the over under is six points.
Yeah.
So six goals total.
So what would you do?
What would you do?
If I wanted to parlay the.
I told you, I told you the lightning are going to win.
So money line or do I do, I would take it all.
I would parlay that whole thing.
I would take the over on the six.
I would take the one and a half and I would take, and I would bet the lightning, the lightning
plus one and a half or just lightning straight up to win.
I would take the lightning straight up to straight up that one and a half because obviously
you would take the one and a half.
Of course.
Cause they're giving you a goal.
Yeah.
But you're, you win less money if you take the one and a half that both on a two, on
a parlay teaser, whatever.
Listen, I used to gamble, but you know what?
When I used to gamble, I could never win.
I'm going to tell you why.
Cause if I'm up 10 grand, 20 grand, it's not changing my life.
So eventually I'm a Lucy.
True.
That's why you don't gamble anymore.
Why should I?
If I win 10 Gs, I'm not even happy.
It's a waste of your fucking time.
Isn't it?
Of course I go.
Yeah.
A little bit here and there, but it's really not fun for me.
What is the fun of gambling?
It's a rush because if I'm a fan, I'm a pay.
If you tell me right now, Brian, give me 10 Gs in the lightning win.
I'll give it to you in a second.
I don't want no money.
I want my team to win.
I'm a sports fan.
I'm not looking to make money on sports.
I make money with sports cards.
How long have you been following hockey?
Are you big?
Are you been following hockey?
No, not really.
Maybe 20 years.
You know a lot about a lot of sports.
Maybe 20 years, but I've been following.
Not very long.
20 years.
But I've been following baseball.
I'm going to be 52 on July 5th.
I've been watching baseball every day since I was 5.
Happy birthday.
Thank you.
Watching college football and boxing.
I love old boxing, old boxing and old baseball.
Baseball is not the same.
It's very boring now.
Why are they getting more boring?
Because they have a shift and pitchers only go three to four innings.
It's just a complete different game.
The baseball, they destroyed it.
What the fuck is wrong?
Why is every single year there's this crazy, there's this crazy lockout in baseball?
To where the players...
Well, they've only had one lockout since 1994, but...
I did not lockout, but when the players' union can't come to a deal with the owners.
What's happening is this.
When you play baseball, let's say you're on a rookie contract, you only make the minimum
salary for like three years.
Which is a couple hundred grand or something.
Six hundred, maybe.
Six hundred, seven hundred thousand.
And then you have three years of arbitration, where you make a certain dollar amount the
team offers you, and then the players' agent offers them, and if they don't agree they
got to go to court with a mediator, and then the team tells you how bad you are, and then
the agent tells you how good you are, and then it bothers the player, gets in his head,
and then you got three years.
So basically, the owners have like six years of control before you become a free agent.
But the rays have proved that spending money is really not how to win.
They've never won a championship, but they had the best record in the League last year.
They had the best record in 2020, made the World Series.
So money, see when players make big money on free agency, what's happening is they're
getting paid for past performance.
So the owners, they've come to the conclusion, it doesn't make sense.
Do you think you'd ever own an MLB team or a sports team?
Well, I don't have enough money for that, because the cheapest team is probably one
and a half billion dollars.
Don't you think you'll ever have enough money to do that?
No, because money doesn't really phase me like that.
I make money for a sport.
I like to live modest, and I make money.
But for me to own a team that's not even feasible, so I wouldn't think about it.
You're not into owning, some people are into owning shit because it's big and it's like
a legacy.
Well, I've been to the sports car game.
I love that.
I mean, even with real estate, some people have the mentality of like, I want to own
this big, beautiful building on this big fucking road that everyone drives by because it solidifies
my legacy.
Exactly.
Well, I have a lot of nice properties.
One day if you ever have a board, I'll drive you by them.
But that's just not my thing.
My thing is real estate is a tool to make money.
If you're a carpenter, you've got to hammer, right?
That's your tool.
If you're an electrician, you have your tools, right?
So real estate is a tool for me to make money.
You know, I'm into real estate.
I'm on the phone all day and night, but after I go home, I just don't really think about
it till the next morning.
Do you have any properties that you keep in hold that you just collect rents on?
I used to own many.
I still have some.
I still have rental properties, but I have property managers deal with it.
The only reason I don't sell them is because you have to depreciate them.
It has more to do with taxes than it does with the real estate.
And it's an asset you could always leverage.
Because you have to leverage to buy new assets.
I mean, you can't keep buying and selling without money.
So if you have assets, you can leverage them, lines of credit, stuff like that.
Okay.
So it just works.
It just works as like a tool for you.
Yeah.
It's like this.
It's like, how do you...
So let's just say you buy 20 properties and they're 500 grand apiece.
That's $10 million.
For you to acquire that, you have to have money somewhere, right?
But money sitting in a bank is losing money due to the fact of inflation.
So you have to have your money working every day.
Because if your money's not working every day, you're losing.
Nothing stays still.
Nothing.
Right.
It either goes up or down.
It's a yo-yo, right?
So you have to have your assets leveraged to make money.
Yeah.
That makes total sense.
Okay.
So one more time.
You said, do you think a month or two, something's going to happen in the housing market?
Do you think it's going to have a correction?
It's going to go up, down a little bit, down a little bit?
Yeah.
I think the assets are definitely going to drop minimum 7% to 10%.
7% to 10%.
And the reason is there were way inflated to begin with.
So remember, most people purchase based on mortgage payment.
If the interest rates go up, their mortgage payment goes up.
But in another way, the supply and demand, new construction will not drop because it
costs so much money to make it.
You have to have insurance, you've got to pay your employees, you have to buy your materials
that are inflated, you've got to pay for the dirt, and plus you've got to make a profit.
So the new construction is going to stay firm.
Okay.
The prices of new construction are buying.
Yeah, of course.
Otherwise, why do it?
Right.
Look, I own a lot of dirt.
I got to properly, I could build 112 units right now.
I don't want to do it.
Right.
Because it doesn't make mathematical sense.
It's better for me to hold that dirt and sell it to someone else.
And I much rather hold paper.
Like I'll give them a mortgage and just collect an interest payment.
Right.
Because I make money doing it, nothing.
And God forbid they don't pay me, I've confiscated it.
Take it, repo it.
Exactly.
Foreclose.
Exactly.
But you're going to see a lot of change in the market.
It's going to be fun.
We'll do this again and then we'll see where we're at.
Cool.
All right, everyone, you got Brian, what's your number again?
813-857-4104.
Brian's available for you for any sort of real estate advice.
Let me see how many calls I missed.
This is investment advice, but we're not live.
No, I know.
It doesn't matter.
Oh, okay.
I missed 27 calls.
27 fucking calls.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah, I got too close.
Go get to work.
