I feel safe out there, the sea buoy's the last buoy out there.
I hit that sea buoy, I reach up, I throw that bitch on the pilot, I turn the radar on, we ride.
Music
Scotty, he worked for me. Scotty gets off his medicine and he goes bonkers and tears up stuff and just throw them in jail.
Music
I've been lead doing island time, healing. I broke my finger in three places on the boat, so I don't have very old medical insurance or none of that stuff.
Have you ever been fishing or anything? No, not in two months, because I broke my finger, so I got to heal up.
I'm living out on this island out here, a little deserted island, so.
Okay, there we go. Nice city. Yeah, don't worry, you're going to... I'm a little worried.
This is sometimes a third person kind of can throw it off.
I asked God for something else to do besides drinking and drugs, so he gave me this canoe, so for 50 bucks.
Mmm, everything. Something to do. A little hobby.
So I got to make the drink. I've been craving Mountain Dew. I don't really even care about the vodka anymore, it's just a thing. It's a good truth serum.
Okay, would you hand this to my mate, Eric Carroll? Oh, sorry, I'm shaking.
What have you been doing for work? Nothing, I did one thing in ice house. I've been diving through garbage cans to live, and people are giving me stuff.
I've only worked two days, like I said, I broke my finger. We were pulling up to a boat, swapping bait across.
It wasn't safe, and we ran to collide together, and I had to be up there handing across bait,
and got my finger stuck in between two, got thrown up like six feet in the air.
Lucky I didn't get my elbow hand ripped off. I didn't even go see a doctor, I just came out here and put a splint on it.
I bummed some antibiotics from people.
Did they take care of you though? No. They take their $10,000, you get your $500, you better be happy with it or you ain't got a job.
They'll hire someone else. You want to complain? That's the way the game goes.
You gotta fucking cry and go cry somewhere else, you know? There's plenty of people that want to work in the world.
That's the kind of life we live.
Yeah, this is it. Breakin', this is what you get. This is the fishing benefits passage.
Ah, thank you.
Uh-oh.
Check this out. That's my solar panel when I used to have my phone work, and I got a solar panel here.
A little, you know, plug in your phone here, a little 12 volt fricking thing going.
Down in the day side, I'll move it over here.
That's like 800 clam shells.
About three weeks of collecting clams, because you gotta wait for the tide to go in and out.
Hey, it's a wimer-rimer.
Hi, surrender.
Hi, surrender.
Yeah, I love you too. You're good hunting dogs, yeah.
Now these people just like this guy like a month ago.
Here you see his picture on there.
The dog grave, the pet cemetery. This is the dog.
That's Coral. That's the Madeira Beach dog.
There's other dogs buried on this island, big wrought waters and other stuff.
I poo back here a couple of times, and I come back and my poo's gone.
Poo's gone. The rodents were so hungry on this island that there's nothing to eat here,
that they would eat the fricking, my poo.
I was feeding them too. I would like have a little bowl out like they were my pets.
But when they chewed through my tent and got my twizzlers, like that's it.
So then I started the killing spree, 23 bodies, 23 confirmed kills.
I'm starting to get little skin cancer spots here and there.
That's from 30 years out in the sun, like open sores.
It ain't herpes or nothing. This is the skin cancer.
This is the beginning stages of skin cancer, all these little spots here.
Holy fuck.
I'm a tax refugee, okay? This is the result of not paying taxes.
We get a pocket full of money, you let us loose on land, then the rents are high,
we're not going to stay in a place for two days, then we're going to go out.
We're going to be supposed to rent an apartment for a month and stay there for five days.
It's a really strange life being in that camp.
You know, I gotta love every, I gotta appreciate, I'm even allowed to breathe.
I'm not sitting in some present or mental institution.
That's about it, and digging through fricking dumpsters,
fricking eating fricking food out of dumpsters, and if people give me food, whatever.
This is your island.
Well, this is the state of Florida's island. I'm just using it for a little while.
Ha ha ha.
Commercial fishermen are going the way of the wooden boat builders.
If the trend keeps going, it's been over the last 25 years.
They might be incorrigible and rough and gruff,
but if the shit hits the fan, my friend,
I want to be standing there with those, the Shane Lees and the rest of them.
They're pirates.
They're pirates at heart.
Rockin' Rodney Rodgers.
I've fished 35 years, never had any bite hurt.
Seriously, I've never been in water.
I've never sunk a boat.
I've never had to call a coast guard.
I do have all my fingers.
Most of my friends can't count to 10 because they don't have 10 fingers.
That's part of fishing.
You know that most of these people here are junkies, right?
I mean, full blown.
No joke on the full blown junkie part.
Rodney is no different than any of them.
And so he's a full blown junkie along with his girlfriend.
That's a full blown junkie along with her kid.
That's a full blown junkie.
They all tank a fight.
We're 51 years old.
I'm cut.
51 years old.
You see every muscle on me.
I go fishing with guys that are 21 years old.
Then you got half the total I got.
On the backs.
You have actual fish bones in your head?
That's a war saw.
That's a big red drooper.
I think I got my tooth in here.
The last tooth I pulled.
Those are my tooth.
I think I'm kidding.
I ain't kidding.
You know, it went from cocaine to crack to heroin to synthetic heroin oxys
and shooting up all of it.
But most of them are very decent people
and I like to try to help them
and take care of them where I can
and do the best I can to take care of them.
I play with some Rod Zombie and some Merrill Manson.
Nobody's ever happy.
Nobody's ever happy.
You've got to kind of try to get along with people.
There's always a few idiots in the crowd.
My friends are what I call corn bed redness.
And they accept me for who I am.
They climb the gates of hell for me.
Which I'll do the same.
So we're going to put groceries, ice and be old tomorrow
and instead of catching five, six hundred,
I want to bust that thousand a day.
A thousand pounds a day is $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day, you're doing something.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
You're making $4,500 a day.
