How long, how long have you been commercial fishing?
I've been doing this since I'm 57.
I've been, I've been a commercial fishing since I was about 13, 14.
Have you ever seen anything like this happen in the past?
Never.
I unload boats.
I fillet fish.
We've taken a big toll.
We scale down.
We've called in our boats.
That boat fishes for us.
That one fishes for us.
This one, this one, and a couple others.
They're dropping the prices on the fish because they shouldn't be dropping the price on the fish.
It should be going up because, you know, now fish is, you know, scarce.
And it's, you know, they ought to be paying them top dollar.
And then you got the Democrats that want to fight against the stimulus checks, which everybody's going to, you know, need.
And it's, you know, it's going to help me out because
with our shark boat just left to go fishing.
And now they're trying to mess with the shark fishing.
And I said, I talked to the reporters.
I said, if you do away with the shark fishing, I'm going to be,
you're going to put a lot of people on unemployment.
You know, unemployment is going to cost the state of Florida a lot of money.
It's, this is my livelihood.
I've fished out of here since I was 14 years old.
And I'm 57.
I, I, I, I, I sword fished out of here.
And right now it's, it's really taken a toll.
All our boats are in some fish houses are only letting the boat go out one time.
One boat go out when it comes in, another one can go out.
And they've, they've lowered the price down from six dollars a pound down to four dollars a pound, which is wrong.
Because, you know, these guys, they can't afford to go out for four dollars a pound, you know,
because they got to, they got to pay IFQ quota, you know, the, the quota is.
Yeah.
Do you think the fishermen are taking it seriously?
Or how are they?
Oh yeah, they're freaking out, you know, this guy, Ricky, Ricky right here, he's been,
I fished with him when I was 14 years old, sword fishing 200 miles out in the Gulf.
He's like, if I can't go fishing, I'm going to have to just sell my boat and sell my IFQs
and all that and everything.
And everybody, everybody's freaking out, you know, because they're, they're, they called in a lot of boats.
Like down at John's Pass at Don's Dock, one boat comes in, another boat can leave.
Same thing with up here at Savon, right there by the bridge.
You know, it's just, you know, it's.
Who's putting those restrictions on you guys?
Um, it's, it's the, you know, people in Tallahassee right now.
We need Nancy Pelosi needs to disappear.
You know, bottom line, you know, her and Biden and Sanders, they all need to disappear
somehow, maybe on a fishing boat, you know.
Okay, my name is Norm Runkles, Clearwater Police Department.
Uh, we're out here for the next two weeks, just monitoring the beach, making sure that people
don't go on the beach.
Um, responsible for these, these two parking lots in the San Quay Beach, making sure that
people stay off of them.
People talk to us all the time, ask us questions all the time.
Their biggest thing is they've never seen the beach like this since 9-11.
Personally, I think of people overreacted.
Instead of keeping calm and doing simple things, such as washing your hands.
And people are still out walking, which is good.
You know, I think keeping everybody locked up too much insides could have a reverse effect
because we know the virus doesn't live in the sunlight.
So, you know, you go take yourself and put yourself in a dark place at home.
You know, who knows what's going to happen.
Um, my name is Sam.
I work the booth at the Sea Screamer here on Clearwater Beach.
So, the Sea Screamer is a dolphin-siding boat.
Um, it's the speed boat, it's the largest speed boat in Clearwater.
We were on our cruises, showing you the area and looking for those dolphins.
Typically, this time of year is actually spring break.
Usually, it's pretty flooded with people, especially young adults.
Usually, the beach is pretty filled.
Restaurants are overbooked.
We're all selling like crazy.
We're one of the more popular boats on the marina.
I would say us and the pirate ship are the most popular.
People really like us.
We chose to shut down with the beach closing.
There just hasn't been people coming around.
Everybody's had to shut down either for lack of people or they were forced to.
It's been rough, it's been rough on everybody.
Everybody's kind of sitting there with the dumbfounded look on their face.
Like, what do I do now?
So, it's been scary.
My husband and I both work on this boat.
So, that's both sources of income getting cut significantly.
We work primarily on tids.
So, if people aren't here to tip us, we're not getting income.
So, what are you guys going to do if this area is shut down for the next month?
Uh, yeah, not really sure.
We don't know yet.
So, my name is Nick March.
I'm a firefighter paramedic.
I work in Pinellas County.
I can't give you the exact department that I work for.
I work more in the south part of the county.
I work in an area where the average patient age is,
anywhere ranging between, the citywide average patient range is 72.
So, we have the more susceptible age range for you to be dealing with the people who are highest,
or have the highest susceptibility to contract the virus.
So, when I show up to work, I have to get my temperature taken before I even walk in the door.
I get asked the normal signs and symptoms questions.
As far as, you know, do I have shortness of breath?
Do I have a cough?
Do I have any new GI symptoms?
Just pretty much anything that could pertain to any symptoms that are common.
And then that's pretty much it.
If I have a fever that is above 100, I get sent home and I put under mandatory quarantine.
We have the busiest address in the county as far as nursing homes goes.
So, when they call 911, they have a set skit of different questions that they meet.
And if you meet the criteria, then they tag something in our notes that we get.
So, when you call 911, we have notes in different specific details that you've
relayed to the person on the other side of the phone.
So, if you meet criteria, like I told you before, it's the same questions that I get asked.
Have you had shortness of breath?
Do you have a dry cough?
Like just anything along those normal things that you see on the news,
you get tagged a category that's called respiratory isolation precautions.
So, essentially, when we get that, we have to gown up completely.
We have to wear a bonnet.
We have to wear a mask.
We have to wear goggles.
We have to wear a gown.
We have to wear booties over our boots.
Like we have to wear like the whole nine yards.
And then even before I go in, I have to stand six feet apart and try to talk to the person.
Now, whether they're unconscious, whether they're, you know, they're not whatever,
you just kind of have to work with it.
But for the most part, we're trying to limit exposure.
So, when you go onto these calls, the second person that you're with or the other people
that you're with are constantly standing six feet behind you.
And whether they're documenting everything that you're doing with the computer,
like normal, or they're handing you stuff from afar, which is usually just I'm like throwing
you stuff.
Like it's just kind of, yeah, man.
I mean, it's being smart as far as just limiting the exposure.
You know, you can't really, I mean, you just, you don't know, you know,
you don't know what you're doing with.
There's been two guys so far.
One guy, he had, he thought he had the symptoms.
They put him on mandatory in quarantine for 14 days.
There's another dude who's actually on my shift who unfortunately,
his mom has tested positive for it.
She's actually, yeah, she's on a ventilator right now with double pneumonia.
And it's pretty gnarly for a while.
It wasn't looking good, but their whole situation is different as far as how everything kind of
happened.
So now on every single call, like any call, whether you fall, you scrape your elbow,
you call fucking 911, whatever, we have to wear a mask and goggles at minimum.
We have to.
So what I'm getting at is when we walk in the people's houses and they're like,
oh, I'm not even sick.
I'm not even this.
I'm not even that.
It's like, you know, you get that overall like,
why the hell are you walking in my house like that?
You know, like I'm not sick.
So I mean, for the first time, I mean, I've been doing this close to like five years.
So for the first time in five years, like I definitely dread going to work kind of.
Do you hear me?
Yeah, I got you.
I got you.
Pause for a second, but I got you back.
Yeah.
Um, I definitely, I mean, you don't know.
I mean, it's like you're staring shit in the face that you don't have any idea.
Like it's not confirmed, you know, because like my job, I'm the highest level of care
outside of the hospital.
Like I'm, I'm like, I mean, I don't want to say I'm a doctor because I'm not at all.
But what I'm saying is it's just like you're, you're kind of working with what you got
relayed on a phone call and working, you can't, you're working with everything that,
you know, you have at your fingertips and trying to make the most of it.
It just sucks to wake up and you know, like, I mean, when we have to put all the shit on,
it's fucking hot, you know, and I know that that's not a, that's not a, uh, it's not an
excuse for safety or anything, but it's just like, you know, calls that normally, uh, take,
you know, a half hour tops or taking two hours because even after that,
you have to decontaminate everything, everything that you touched, everything that was in that
patient, you know, the Sunstar ambulance that takes you to the hospital, it has to all be
completely wiped clean with hydrogen peroxide and sanitized.
You know, it's just, it's, it's ridiculous.
I mean, like for example, the other, the other shift we had one that happened like right at
1am and I didn't get back to the station to restock everything and make everything happen
again until like 330.
So it's like, you know, I mean, it is what it is.
It's what I signed up for and, you know, I can't complain about it and by no incense
am I complaining about it, but this is, this is just the beginning of their ride for everyone at EMS.
