First of all, to all the people listening, I apologize.
I lost my voice two days ago, so that's why I sound like I do.
But hopefully we won't have to listen too much to my voice.
We'll be able to listen to you tell your story today, which is a gut-wrenching story.
For people that don't know who you are, why don't you go ahead and give yourself an introduction
and explain your background and where you came from and all that stuff.
Yes, first and foremost, I want to thank you for this opportunity, Danny.
You and so many other people have allowed me to come on and speak about the tragedy and
the triumphs that my family and I have gone through.
My name is Raymond Hicks.
Of course, I grew up in Gifford, Florida.
I was born in Vero Beach, but I grew up in Gifford, Florida, as well as Fort Lauderdale.
I decided at a young age that I wanted to go into law enforcement if I didn't play
professional football.
So of course, I had an opportunity to work out with the Miami Dolphins in 1990.
I left the Sheriff's Department in 1990, pursued a football career with the Dolphins.
It was unsuccessful.
Eventually, I went into law enforcement, and here I am speaking about the different things,
the triumphs and the tragedies that me and my wife and kids have experienced.
How made you want to go into law enforcement?
Because I remember when I was about eight or nine years of age, the cops used to come
to my home when there was stabbing, cutting.
My mother was shot.
My dad went to prison, and I decided that at that point, because they put me aside from
the tragedy that was going on, and they was like, here, let me talk to you.
And when they put me away from the scene where my mom and dad just finished plunging knives
into each other's body, they began to talk to me about the importance of the handcuffs,
the gun, and just being a law enforcement official.
And I said, if I didn't play professional football, then I would go into law enforcement
to make a difference.
And of course, 11, 17, 1986 is when I went into law enforcement.
So you felt like the police officers that you dealt with as a kid, they made a positive
impact on your life?
Absolutely.
They made a great impact on my life, and I would never forget them the longest I lived.
There are so many men and women that put on a uniform that makes a difference, Danny.
These people put their lives on the line each and every day to do what?
The serve and protect.
But you have a lot of these client desktimes that's actually wearing these uniforms that
belittling degrade people just because they feel like they have the authority to do so.
You give someone arrest powers, and all of a sudden, they act like they're God, when
in fact that they should be inspiring and pushing people in the right direction instead
of belittling degrading them.
The neighborhood you grew up in, was that in Broward County?
Yes.
Well, I grew up in Gifford.
Gifford, okay.
That's close to Broward, though, right?
Well, it's actually like two hours away from Broward County, but then I also grew up here
in Fort Lauderdale, which is in Broward County.
I'm off the Sunrise and 22nd Avenue, a place called Lenard's Apartments in Franklin Park,
which is one of the worst areas in Broward County that anybody could ever grow up in.
Really?
Absolutely.
What's so bad about it?
It's drug infested.
There's always shooting, there's always killing, there's always stabbing, there's always robbery,
strong arm robbery, burglary.
This area is notorious, is notorious for illegal activity, and it goes on on a regular basis.
As a matter of fact, the store that my mom should send us to, which is Friendly, we should
go to that store.
The reason why they called the A-Rap, who was actually operating the store, who owned
the store, Friendly is because he used to take my mom's name and put her name on the
books.
So, we could go there, get a dollar worth of bologna and a loaf of bread, and my mom
was saying, hey, put my name on the books.
So, Friday, she would go there and, of course, pay the tab or whatnot.
Oh, wow, that's amazing.
When you were young growing up in that part of town, did you ever get wrapped up in any
trouble or anything?
No, I've never been in trouble in my entire life.
No.
Until I started working with the bar of sheriff's office.
Okay.
What was your relationship like with your father growing up?
I didn't really have a personal relationship with my dad, but ever since I was like six
years of age, my dad always taught me how to fight.
So, I've been fighting ever since I was about six.
My dad was a kind of person, man, that I never understood him, because I mean, my mom is
like four foot 11, maybe 120, 130 pounds.
And my dad was like maybe six foot one, 250, 260 pounds.
And he would beat my mom to a pulp, man.
And there was time that he ran in front of me.
And there was time that he would run us out the house.
We had to stay out the house until like maybe three or four o'clock in the morning until
he actually fell asleep.
My dad, he was just that kind of person, but my mom just kept praying.
She'd always been a praying woman.
And of course, when these triumphs and trials and tribulations that we were experiencing,
I just watched my mom just stretch her arms out towards heaven.
And she just began to just pray and just ask God to intervene in a situation that me and
my other siblings and my mom was experiencing.
It wasn't until my dad actually came into the church that things began to turn around
for us.
It was no more fighting Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
And I think my dad walked out of my life about maybe 12 years of age.
He walked out where to go.
Him and my mom separated.
But my dad came back whenever he wanted to come back.
He was just that kind of person.
My dad was straight vicious, man.
But when you look at me, Danny, you're looking at my father.
Do you ever talk to him anymore?
He's deceased now.
Oh, is he really?
Yeah.
Okay, I'm sorry to hear that.
But I was able to take care of my dad, even though he wasn't there for me.
I was there for him.
I bathed him.
I changed him.
I fed him.
One of the things he wanted to see was me in uniform.
And of course, he hated cops.
My dad hated cops with a passion.
He always said that he would blow a cop's brains out.
So if there was stabbing cutting, my mother was shot by my dad.
My dad shot his best friend because they said he touched my mom's leg.
When my dad saw it, you know, saw him under the tree, according to the information that
was given to me, you know, the tree is a place where they go and play cards, dominoes, and
that sort of thing.
They drank and whatnot.
So of course, my dad went looking for him.
And when my father found him, according to what the information my mom gave to me, is
that he asked him, he said, hey, Nott, did you touch my wife's leg?
And he said, if I touched her, what you're going to do?
So my dad said, if you tell me you touched my wife's leg, I'm going to shoot you.
And he said, yeah, I'll touch you.
And of course, my dad put out a chrome, he put out a chrome 32 with a pearl handle.
And I know from being in law enforcement that he jerked the trigger when he went to shoot.
He didn't squeeze the trigger.
He jerked the trigger.
So the first round went past him.
He said, you didn't shoot me.
He said, no, I didn't, I didn't get you that time, but I'm going to definitely get you
this time.
The second, that second shot hit him up in his neck area.
My dad served eight years in prison for that.
Wow.
How old were you when that happened?
I was young, man.
I was a young kid.
Like, I don't know how, maybe nine, 10, 11, 12, I don't know, somewhere around up in
there.
Wow.
So from a young age, your personal experience with law enforcement, with cops, was just
dealing with your parents and kind of intervening in what was going on inside your home.
That's correct.
They had like four or five carloads.
Every time they came to my house, there was four or five carloads of cops coming to my
home from my father.
There was a gentleman by the name of Mr. Leon Foster.
He was a deputy sheriff for the In the River County Police Sheriff Department.
And he always came with other cops because he was the only one that can really come
my father down.
My family fought with the cops.
And I'm standing, between 11 and 13 years of age, I watched my family engage in a physical
altercation with the cops.
And I said, why are they beating up on the cops, man?
The cops are good people.
You know?
This is what I'm saying to myself.
And I know, forget it, they had my cousin handcuffed in the back seat of the car.
Her name is Christine, but we call her Bap.
And of course, my family had water holes that they was beating the cops with, the water
holes and everything.
You know?
Good Lord.
So, why are they fighting with the police, man?
The police are good people.
Because I just remember them coming to my home at eight or nine years of age that I can recall
when there was complete chaos in my home and how they pulled me aside and began to counsel
me and saying, hey, listen, Ray, you know, come here a little man, let me talk to you.
And I know, forget that the longest day I live.
And I said, if I didn't play professional football, I would go into law enforcement
to make a difference.
And I can tell you, without a shadow of a doubt, Danny, I can show you.
You're on my phone where I've had inmates contact me via messenger from the former two
podcasts that I've had with Matthew Cox and Mr. Mark later.
And they called me and said, man, you was one of the best.
You changed my life.
You inspired me.
Some of these individuals have gone on and became successful citizens out in society.
Some of them making $150,000 a year driving 18 wheeler trucks.
The last person called me, this brother was Kevin.
And he called me with tears.
He said, man, I saw your podcast and I just want to reach out to you.
And of course, you know, I'm good, man.
You know, it's just, it's a shame.
It's a disgrace, Danny.
You know, I'm not one of these cops that go out there and belittled great people, man.
I'm not that I'm not that person.
I'm not a cop that's doing all these criminal acts that they accuse me of.
That's not me.
What is it?
Do you think that is wrong with law enforcement today?
And what is what the type of people that become cops?
For the most part, I feel like they want to do good.
But what do you think is going on with the few bad apples that are getting involved in
law enforcement?
Well, one thing is for sure.
You got so many men and women that put the uniform on each and every day.
I love law enforcement.
To this day, I still love law enforcement.
There's a lot of great men and women that wear that uniform to make a difference.
And the answer to your question is that you have to have accountability, transparency,
but I'm very optimistic that when you got the right people in place who can order, you
know, look at certain situations and assess these situations.
But one of the problems that I've seen is that they pay great.
I think the law enforcement officials should be making over six figures a year.
And the reason why I say that is because it would keep you from working paycheck to paycheck,
you know, trying to take care of your family, trying to pay your bills, when in fact that
you went into a drug dealer, you know, who was out there in the street, this person making
so many hundreds and thousands of dollars per second per day, and you come in contact
with this individual.
If you're not a strong person, and if you don't believe in your craft and reference
to the oath that you take, you know, to uphold the law, you know, these people, they revert
to things that they shouldn't do.
They run into people who are doing whatever sort of illegal activities, whether it be
trafficking drugs, and they see these guys that are making crazy amounts of money.
And it's tempting when you see a giant pile of cash or a bunch of drugs.
If you're an underpaid law enforcement guy, and your life is on the line every day, and
you want to, it's not that hard to bend the law a little bit, and maybe take a little
bit of something here, take a little bit of something there, whatever it may be.
Is that sort of what you're getting at?
Yes, but that's the problem.
That's the problem, because when you do that, then you're going against the, you're going
against the oath.
You take an oath to uphold the law.
If you're going to break the law, then you continue to break the law.
But understand there are circumstances and consequences, you know, and repercussions
when you do that.
But a lot of these people, why would you do that?
Now you just subject your family to a harsh punishment.
Because whatever happened to you, it happened to your family.
So at the end of the day, what are you benefiting from?
And then you also have to keep in mind that, number one, when you take drugs and money
from these individuals, guess what?
They're going to let you take the money in drugs.
But those are the same people who actually become an informant.
So the first thing they say is that, hey, you know what?
On such and such date and time, this cop stopped me.
He took 100,000.
He took how many kilograms of coke?
And they're like, really?
Yes.
And all of a sudden, guess what they do?
They set you up.
Now they have you on a strict surveillance, DEA, FBI, your department, everybody else
is watching you now, you know, and you'll every move.
Right.
Why?
Because they have these informants that come because at some point, that person is going
to get arrested again.
And when that person get arrested, they're going to say, hey, listen, I got some pertinent
information that I can give you in order for you to give me a reduction in sentence.
And this is what happened.
Right.
So you got to ask yourself, why did you take on the uniform?
Well, I didn't take on the uniform to belittle and degrade people.
I took on the uniform to inspire people to let them know that I come from the gutter.
I come from the hood where there was stabbing cut and my mother was shot.
My dad was the prison.
I was a highly decorated officer.
I was a gold cross recipient, civil cross recipient, two-time deputy of the month, never
been in trouble in my entire life up until the situation when I began to work narcotics
for the bar of sheriff's office.
What does that mean, gold cross recipient?
The gold cross recipient is a ward that a man or woman will receive without getting killed.
That's the highest ward without getting killed in the line of duty.
And how I won that ward, Danny, is that there was an armed carjacking that took place that
I didn't even know about.
So what happened was I was coming down the street in civilian clothing and I saw this
taxi at the red light and when the light turned green.
You were off duty?
Yeah, I was off duty.
I was in civilian clothing and when I saw the light turn green, the taxi merged into
the fence.
So I saw these two black guys fighting.
So I said, let me just stop and break up the fight.
So in the processor, you know, breaking up the fight, I discovered that there was wrestling
over three-fifths of said magnum.
So of course one round went through the roof of the car and of course the subject took
a chunk out of the victim's eye.
They both said, he's robbing me, he's robbing me.
But my whole thing was to take that weapon.
And I can show you a report once we finish with this interview where you can see it with
your own eyes and you'll see that I got on the phone, I call communication, I advise
a signal 041, which is an armed robbery.
And I told them to set up a perimeter.
Well they arrested this 18-year-old kid and I found out later, but when the deputy arrived,
I was there with the victim and also the gun.
So when I read the report, I come to realize that the subject actually got into the taxi
cab off of Sistron and he had the taxi take him over to 21st and Oakland Park.
He went upstairs to an apartment complex and when he came down, he actually made the taxi
cab driver get in the passenger side.
So he was robbing the guy.
And as it was coming down the street, when the light was red, we both were there.
And when the light turned green, that's when the car merged into the fence and the two
of them was fighting.
And I won the Gold Cross Award for that.
That was in 1999.
The very next year, 2000, I'm faced with natural life imprisonment without possible parole.
By the same sheriff that gave me the Gold Cross Award.
Well, let's explain to people how you got sentenced to life possible.
You almost got, you got charged to get to life.
How does that work?
Let's explain what was going on when you realized that you were being set up for something
that you didn't do.
Well, first of all, they pulled me out of the jail back in 1990.
And as I mentioned to Matt-
Oh yeah, you were a correctional's officer first.
Yes.
Okay.
And I also mentioned to Matthew Cox and also Mark later and yourself, Danny, is that when
they put me out of the jail, you got to have street knowledge mentality.
Like you tell a person, yo, my nigga, I got them parlets.
A lot of people who are from the street, they know what parlets mean.
Parlay, like a bet?
No, parlets mean the size of the drug.
That's what they mean by the cocaine rock.
It's the size.
So when they say, yo, my nigga, I got them parlets, meaning that I got the fat rock.
You know what I mean?
Okay.
Yeah.
So the rock is probably about the size of my thumb.
I listen to Gucci, man.
So I know some of the slang.
Yeah.
So that's, you know, the slain talk is real in the hood, you know?
Right, right.
It's just like if the cops is coming, yo, they go 5-0, 99.
Right, right, right.
You know, these are the type of thing that criminals say, you know, to alarm somebody
else and say, hey man, you know, you got police saturating the area.
And of course, you know, we used to do buy buses.
So when they pulled me out of the jail in 1990, I'm out there working with these guys.
And the cocaine rock is only $10.
But they was in this particular area where they were selling the rocks at, they were
actually selling them for like $40, $50, $60 a rock, you know?
And on top of that, the rocks that my commander gave us had a Ziploc, it had a serial number
on the Ziploc package.
And also, the money was marked.
So there was time that we took informants and we sent them in a particular location and
that informant would go in there and they would come back and give us the intel, hey,
the person wearing a red and black shirt, you know, with a black hat, this and that,
whatever the person is wearing.
So the informants would be going in to buy drugs?
Yeah, we were sending informant in, you know, to purchase drugs because to be honest with
you, a lot of time they try and use officers, right?
They go into these type of locations and really, to be honest with you, lately they have not
been doing that.
And the reason being is because you're putting that law officer here, she, life is at stake,
you know?
Because if these guys find out that you, I mean, you, you are a cop, they may kill you
right on the spot.
Really?
Absolutely.
So, so we use informants and we send informants in and the reason why we do that is because
that person is familiar with that particular area.
So that person could go in there and, you know, because they don't know if that person
was arrested or not in a way.
They don't know that the person is working, right, right?
You know, and some of the informants, they give a control number two.
So meaning that they get paid, you know, in order to give over information, along with
getting the reduction and the sentence.
So they come back and they tell us, they give us the intel.
And what we do is we move in, we back up, move in, they take these guys in the custody.
And once they take them in the custody, we get out and pose as undercover sellers.
These informants, do they, what is their, do they ever get caught, like are busted,
trying to inform on people or to?
Yes.
That's, that's, that's how they get caught.
See first of all, you got to think, you know, there's a difference between a snitch and,
and really telling the truth, you know, and a snitch is a person who goes out and commit
a crime.
And all of a sudden, now they want to get a census reduction and they become an informant.
Right.
And they become an paid informant.
Right.
So of course, what that person does is that the agency would pay them to go and make deals
with, you know, the drug dealers.
And I'm sure though, I'm, what I'm saying is, I'm sure those guys get whacked all the time
if they get caught.
Well, you know, it's, I mean, that's up to them because, you know, you, you tell them,
hey, listen, so you're going to risk your life.
You went out there, you committed a crime, but now all of a sudden, you know, you don't
want to do the time for the crime that you committed, but now you want to, you want to
say things about these other people that you know about to get a, a census reduction.
Right.
So you're going to cut someone else's throat to save your own self.
Right.
But they put them right back in that same environment.
Right.
And that's how they, some of them, you know, there's a possibility they may lose their
life or they may get, you know, beaten down, you know, is, I mean, you know, in the streets
they call, they say snitches get stitches.
Right.
So, you know, that means that you go out there and you say things against these guys and
they put you back in that same area, you know, it could become detrimental for you and your
family.
So when they pulled you out of being a correctional officer in the prison and you went to the
streets, what was the biggest problem that you guys had to deal with on a day-to-day basis
on the streets?
Drugs.
Drugs was the number one thing, selling drugs, crack cocaine, drugs, robbery, you know, home
invasion, strong arm robbery, burglary, you know, because it depends on what area you're
working.
Right.
And you were in...
I was working in district five.
District five.
Yes.
District five.
District five is an unincorporated in Broward County, you know, where they control over
so many different areas within that jurisdiction.
So district five is the area where I grew up at, like Franklin Park, Lenard's apartment,
they patrol that particular area, you know, and it's an area that, you know, cops really
don't want to patrol, man, you know what I mean, because it's crazy.
As a matter of fact, I even spoke about it on Mark Layton, as well as Matthew Cox Show,
is that one of my friends, his name is Gaston Akins, we call him G Fresh, and G was out
at the park selling drugs and, you know, doing a lot of other things, he went into prison
like two or three times, and I used to always tell him, man, when he just came into the
jail, I'm like, G, the recidivism rate is constantly growing by a vast number, bro.
When are you going to change your life around?
What about your wife and kids?
And he's like, man, I got to take care of my family.
I'm like, well, how are you going to take care of your family, G, when you're in here?
Who's taking care of your family now?
So of course, I used to get on these guys.
I used to also tell the inmates, listen, man, I love you guys, man.
I'm no different than they are.
We bleed the same color blood.
My job is not to belittle, degrade them, and going back to G, I told him, I said, listen,
man, get your life straight, man.
He said, but you made it.
I said, yeah, but I was determined to come out of the hood.
I don't want to become a product of my environment.
I want my environment to become a product of who I am.
And this is who I am.
And of course, you know, he went to prison like two or three times, came home, he became
a foreman of a construction site, OK, where he was actually operating the backhoe.
And when I came home from being incarcerated, guess who gave me a job?
He did.
No way.
Yeah, he became my boss.
Wow.
You're going to read it in his book title.
I'm Still Standing by Raymond Hicks.
It's in here.
It started construction.
That's amazing, man.
You know?
Yeah, man.
I mean, look, like I don't know, but from what I can, what I can guess from the problems
with some of the neighborhoods, like some of the worst neighborhoods or the worst inner
cities in different states or in Florida, for example, is that like, if you're a kid
and you're growing up, you're a baby and you're brought up in this environment and everybody
you know, all your friends, your relatives, your parents, they're their friends, they're
all you're surrounded by crime, right?
Everybody is just like everybody you know.
You don't know anybody outside of this circle who's on some crazy positive trajectory, right?
Everyone's sort of on this like negative feedback loop of whatever it is.
Like you see burglary, you see crime, you're growing up and you're seeing it everywhere.
You're seeing your parents fight.
God has to make it so much harder to escape that environment if that's all you know when
you're growing up.
Well, see, that's the thing.
That's why I always fought bullies, I always fought bullies, man, always, you know?
Because you know, when you're growing up in the hood, a lot of people don't understand
the hood.
It's like my mom was making a dollar an hour.
My dad was making like a dollar an hour working for Hogan and Son Packard House at Viral Beach.
How do you take care of your family?
You know, my dad had a third grade education.
He couldn't read or write, couldn't even spell his own name.
My mom dropped out in seventh grade.
So I was getting Ds and Fs, so many kids in the hood.
There are so many kids in the hood, man, daddy.
That's growing up the same way I grew up.
That's why I've always wanted to inspire them.
I don't want to become a product of my environment.
I want my environment to become a product of who I am.
Nobody would, you know, understand.
The only way you will understand a person growing up in the hood is if you grew up in
the hood.
Right.
Like what you just mentioned, you know, you see somebody get shot, that's common.
You see somebody get robbed, that's common.
You see Berkeley, that's common.
You see stabbing, that's common.
You ain't got to take my word, get my mom on here.
She'll tell you.
It's just like my soldier, he called you, a brother that I love, man.
You know?
Always inspired me, Ray, but he'll tell you, Danny, I fought with the best, man.
There's nothing coward about me.
I'm humble as a dove, I'm vicious as a lion, and I'm like an eagle.
I don't run away from storms.
I go into storms.
But I thank God.
I thank God today.
I'm that same kid that came out the hood that made it out of Gifford, out of Fort Lauderdale
and look at me today, 21 years.
My wife and kids, we've lost everything.
Some cars, finances, I couldn't even feed my family.
But guess what?
I went to bed, when I was a young kid growing up, I went to bed with a ketchup sandwich,
a mayonnaise sandwich, drinking sugar water, eating macaroni and cheese out of the can.
So to be honest with you, listen, I've already been there.
So people ask me, man, how is it that you was able to get through this situation?
Now, it's because of my upbringing.
It's because of my upbringing.
Because daddy, to be honest with you, you can't take a kid who've lived a lavish lifestyle
and put them in the hood and expect for that kid to live.
So to be honest with you, listen, the triumph, the trouble, the trials and tribulations that
they put us through, I've seen it.
I watched it from eight years of age, didn't got to take my word.
If you ever talk to my mother, ask her.
I had a friend of mine named Travis, and Travis spoke to my mom on the three way.
And I remember when I was 12 years of age, right?
I had this gentleman that actually I got into a fight with.
He was 17.
We was on the school bus and we was cracking on each other mother.
And all of a sudden, I got the best of them.
And at 17, you're going to tell me, like your mama jokes, your mama got, you know, your
mama used a straightening to call him, to call my hair.
You know, we came up with like mother jokes and stuff, you know, we laugh.
So I got the best of them that day.
So here come the 17, you're going to tell me, man, legit go sit down.
I said, who are you talking to?
He said, I'm talking to you.
I said, you can't be talking to me, man.
You like what?
You're going to do nothing to me.
You're going to do nothing to me.
And of course, he came and hit me and we started fighting.
And we fought until the bus stopped.
And when I got off the bus, I went home.
I thank God, I ain't tell my dad.
But I told my mother, and you know what my mom did?
My mom went into the kitchen and she got the biggest butcher knife.
OK, which we refer to as a steak knife.
Now she went and got the biggest butcher knife with a brown handle
that she can find and she wrapped it up in a towel.
And she said, you come on and we went to his house and knocked at his door.
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition,
exercise and sleep as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length
with doctors and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels
with powerful ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body,
but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called certuans.
Certuans are called longevity genes because by activating them,
they support overall health and slow down aging related effects
by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damaged DNA
and ramp up energy production in your brain, immune system and muscles.
Now, you can't take NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big
for the cells to absorb, but NMN directly converts to NAD plus,
while resveratrol activates your certuans, which increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus
more than just NMN on its own.
Verso also publishes third party testing from each batch produced to absolutely
guarantee you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to VER.SO and use the coupon code Concrete at checkout
to save 15% off your entire order or go to VER.SO forward slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
Right now it's linked below.
Now back to the show.
When his mom answered the door, my mom said, is your son John Thomas here?
She said, no, ma'am, but how can I help you?
My mom said, you can't help me.
I want to talk to your son.
Well, I'm glad he wasn't there that day because had he been there, trust me,
my mom would have put that knife in his body and I'd have been put foot in his butt.
So let's go back to after you became a deputy and you were you were
working the streets, district five.
And what happened when you realized walk us through the day that you got arrested?
On June 15, 2000, when, first of all, they told me that I couldn't
work out on the streets anymore because I kept getting on them.
I say, the same guy that we just arrested, y'all taking money.
You're planting drugs and you're beating innocent offenders to the ground.
I say, you know, you guys are no different than the ones that we just arrested.
They told me to mind my business.
That's what the freak you mean, mind my business.
So this was a common thing.
You were seeing the cops that you were working with.
They were literally stealing from the drug dealers.
Absolutely. No, they taking money from the drug dealers.
Yes. Money and drugs.
After they arrested them, they were taking money.
Yes. And that money is supposed to go in the manila folder that says
with a red tape that says evidence and the supervisor signed a signature
where you can't break the seal where they was leaving with thousands
and thousands of dollars each night. Wow.
I told them, I said, you guys are no different than the ones we just arrested.
You should be in the pediwagon.
And that's when they told me to mind my business.
I said, what the freak you mean, mind my business.
So, of course, they decided, you know what?
You can't work out here no more.
I said, oh, and what?
You going back to the jail?
OK, so put me back in the jail.
So I go back to the jail.
I'm working on the sixth floor and I was working for 73.
And of course, when I came home and round about three, three, thirty,
I guess three, thirty, I took a shower, I lie down.
And of course, that's what I always do.
I take a nap.
And when I got up to go work out in my backyard, I look across the street.
I see either the SWAT team or the drug task force mounting up.
So when they saw me, they all jumped in their cars and sped down the back street.
So I told my neighbor, I said, man, let's go to the front of my yard and see
where they going.
Granted, my wife had gone to win Dixie.
So it was just me, my my neighbor and my my 12 year old daughter
and my 70 seven year old daughter there in the yard.
And all of a sudden, when I go to the front of my yard,
they jump in the back wall and everything.
Sixty some cop stormy at gunpoint 60, 60.
Sixty some cop stormy at gunpoint had me and my kids at gunpoint.
So my oldest daughter got on the phone and she called my wife.
Hey, mommy, they got daddy here and the police got daddy.
So when my wife came back from.
When my wife came back from when Dixie, she was patting on the chest
like she was having a heart palpitations and she was asking questions.
But prior to my wife coming, they done gone in my house,
searched my house and everything, looking for drugs and money.
But they never told me what they was resting me for.
They come telling me, Ray, we got to want for your rest.
I said, I want for who rest?
I want for your rest. I said, for what?
So here come this dude, Ricky.
He patting me at my shoulder.
Hey, Ray, calm down.
I said, man, what you mean?
Ricky, calm down.
What the frick do you mean?
Calm down. What you mean?
Calm down. What did I do?
So then Dave Robschoff from internal affairs.
Hey, Ray, we going to place you on suspension depending on the outcome of this case.
I said, what case?
What case are you talking about?
What did I do?
So all of a sudden, the same guy just showed you earlier, right?
Bernard Brown, he was the one who actually put me in the
and in the mark unit and transported me to district five.
But I'm still asking questions because had they told me what they was
arresting me for that day, they probably would have killed me that day.
Because I ain't never been in trouble my entire life.
I never tried to marijuana and cigarette in my entire life.
I never took a drink a day in my entire life until after the incident.
So I get down to booking and I'm like, what am I here for?
Ray, we can't discuss it.
That's what he mean.
You can't do so.
Nobody can discuss it.
So you guys can tell me that you got a one for my rest, you know,
but you can't discuss it.
So all of a sudden, I'm still asking a question.
So they booked me and then they take me over to the city jail.
When I arrived at the city jail, they put me in solitary confinement.
So I stay there till the next morning, 24 hours.
All of a sudden, the marshals come.
I'm like, whoa, man, the marshals, what's the purpose?
I said, what's the purpose of the marshals?
Oh, Ray, we're here to take you to court.
Take me to court for what?
Well, we can't discuss.
I'm like, what do you mean you can't discuss?
I said, what did I do?
Ray, we're just here to take you to court.
They handcuffed me and shackled me, put me in an unmarked car
and transported me over to the federal court or the federal court.
I get over there.
The props, my mom and my wife are sitting in the courtroom.
The prosecutor said, well, Mr.
Ray is at work.
He's in the top 10 percent of his department.
But when he's not at work, he's into other curricular activity.
They say and she profit to the courts that I went to various states
and live in 350 kilograms of cocaine that was equivalent to $750 million.
The magistrate judge says, you're not a flight risk.
She said, but you're a menace to society.
A menace to society.
So they said they said they found 350 kilos of cocaine.
No. No, there was no drugs.
So what exactly did they say about the 350 kilos?
She said I went to various states to live in 350 kilograms of cocaine.
Delivering.
Yes.
That was equivalent to $750 million.
But I had an interview with an awesome young lady by the name of Miss Jane Turner.
She was former FBI.
She was a supervisor for FBI and she was also a SWAT member.
And when she interviewed me, it was titled Mind Your Own Business.
And she says, Ray, she said, I know you're telling me the truth.
She said, because if you was moving that counterweight, the DEA, the FBI,
ATF, the Marshals and everybody would have been on you.
You wouldn't have never been arrested by the Brown Sheriff Office.
You'd have been arrested by the DEA.
Right.
All of this stuff was fabricated.
Every bit of it was fabricated.
You know, and it's been 21 years now that I'm allowed to tell my story
with the help of Matthew Cox, with the help of you, Danny,
with the help of Mark Laiter, with the help of Bobby Lattergar,
Miss Jane Turner, Mr. Tom Devine, Mr. Terry Watson,
Mr. Robert Ward, Miss Anna Popovich.
I could just go on with the list.
Miss Sarah, all these people have given me a platform to speak about the same thing.
You know, Clay Tillman, all these people have allowed me an opportunity to talk about it.
I've been talking about it for 21 years now.
I've been saying the same thing for 21 years.
Now, all of a sudden, everybody calling me from everywhere.
I can't tell you all the people that I reached out to
before this, before me talking on you guys' podcast.
It's a shame. It's a disgrace to just say I'm a minister of society.
I'm a man.
But when you look at these documents, you'll see I'm a gold cross recipient,
silver cross recipient, two-time deputy of the month.
So how do you go from being a highly decorated officer to a minister's society?
This is what the judge told me.
But you know what?
And she signed the gavel.
Get this man out of here.
They had I was already handcuffed in shackles.
They took me back to the holding cell.
And when they took me back there, there was five, five other individuals back there
that the bar sheriff office had picked and arrested.
With me.
And literally, I want to tell the head off their body.
I looked at every last one of them.
I said, man, I said, what's one of you?
I said, what's one of you niggas said something about me, man?
What's one of you?
What's one of y'all said something about me?
They're like, man, because you trippin, I listen, I'm ready to fight with all of them.
Every last one of my it was five of them in there and trust me,
I'm ready to fight with every last one of them.
Because one thing is for sure about me.
I ain't never been in trouble in my entire life ever.
And I want to tell the head off, Danny.
They were like, man, you wrong, man.
This is your department doing this to you, man.
We did nothing to you.
And you know what?
They were telling the truth.
Right.
These guys, how many of them were in five of them?
Five.
And they what were they saying when you when you confronted them?
They say, you're wrong, man.
Big Hicks, you're wrong, man.
You know, this your department, man.
We haven't said nothing about you, man.
And they was telling the truth.
And and the monsters came.
They gave us a bagged sandwich, you know, that had like an apple, banana
and a sandwich in the bag.
And from there, they took a they transported us down to the federal
detention center in Miami.
And you at this point, you still have all you know is basically what who
who was the person who told the judge about this, about the
seven hundred and fifty million dollar worth of cocaine.
The district attorney.
The DA said that.
Yes.
And that when the DA said that, that was the first time you'd ever heard that.
Yes.
So what is going through your head now?
Like, what do you think?
My mom and wife, like, what the fuck are they talking about, man?
Right.
So my mom is telling me, calm down.
I'm like, I'm looking at my mom's like, calm down.
You know, I'm saying to myself, this is crazy, man.
Yeah.
Three hundred and fifty kilograms of coke, seven hundred and fifty
million dollars.
I've never even seen that amount of coke and drugs before ever.
So when they put you back, when they shipped you back, so they took you back
and then they put you in a federal prison.
Yes.
What was the process after that?
I get there and, of course, they took all my belongings, they put it in the box
and they shipped it back to my home to my wife, according to what my wife told me.
And, of course, it's a certain way that you script search your inmate.
The way that they stripped first me was in humane.
They treated me like I was a law scum on the face of this earth.
You know, it's a certain way that you script search your inmate.
You know, and the way that they treated me, it's crazy.
If you got hair in your head, they have you run your fingers through your hair.
They have you lift up your tongue to see if you're not concealing anything
under your tongue.
If you got hair, they run their fingers through your hair to make sure
you're not concealing anything in your hair.
Then they actually turn around to bend over at the waist.
When you've been over at the waist, you know, they make you cough.
They see if you can sell anything in your anal.
Right. Then they have you raise your feet, you know, each foot.
They check the bottom of your foot.
And all of a sudden, you know, it's just a shame.
It's a disgrace, man.
How these people treated me.
And then they came and gave me an orange jumper and they gave me an orange
jumper and took me up to the 13th floor, which was called a shoe, the hole.
And I stayed there for five months.
God, you were in a room by yourself for five months.
Five months.
What did you talk to anybody during that five months, like attorneys
or anything?
I talked to the court opponent attorney every night in.
But, you know, it's it's crazy, man.
I don't think no one should ever have to spend
two or three days in the hole, because if you're not a strong person
spiritually and physically and mentally, it would destroy you.
I know. I've heard stories.
I don't know. It was literally what, trust me.
It's like going to that bathroom.
You just allow me to use and close the door.
And the vision you've been in there for 24 hours a day,
what, 23 hours a day, you come out one hour a day for recreation.
That's what it feel like.
And most people, you know, when you in there for so long,
you start hallucinating, where it's like the walls are talking
and everything else, man. And it's it's it's it's it's.
So and then the officer was nasty.
They were jigging at me every day.
You that cricket cop.
I hope you're gone for the rest of your life.
I'm like, I'm not a cooker cop.
I was a highly decorated officer.
I said, I'll be here for something that I didn't do.
You know, but it's a shame how people's are treating other people.
When the fact that it's not your job to judge me.
Your job is to be is to remain as a professional.
You represent a brand.
That brand is your name and that's that company that you work for.
You shouldn't belittle the great people
just because you were in a freaking uniform.
If that be the case, then take the freaking uniform off.
Take it off and give it to somebody
who's going to take pride in what they're doing.
Is is heart wrenching, daddy?
Yeah.
They took something from me that I love, man.
I didn't like my job.
I love my job.
Anybody didn't tell you my sergeant called you the other day and told you, right?
Oh, I don't like my job.
I love my job.
I took pride in my job.
I inspired so many people.
From the administration, from the inmates to the citizens.
You know, because I never listen.
If I got to fight with you, if I got to fight with you
because of something that you did, I broke both of my hands.
I lost my knuckle there and I lost my knuckle here.
Fight with a guy I want to go.
I want to sit across the water.
And I'm going to show you the document
from coming to the aid of a soldier who was punched in the face by this black
dude, this huge, big, black guy, he didn't want to go down to general population.
The sergeant told him he had to go downstairs.
He called him a cracker, told him, no, I'm not going down there.
And the next thing you know, he punched the sergeant and literally knocked him out.
Really? Yeah.
And he hit me.
But the deputy that was there with the sergeant, he panic.
And I'm saying to myself, so I wanted to sergeant Sinclair say, Ray, go, go, go.
So I went into the unit and there he is trying to throw
the sergeant over the rail.
So when I get up there, the inmates, you can hear all the inmates say, man,
the kids don't, man, he's going to beat you to death, man.
And I told my cellos, man, listen, the sergeant, I really talk to you.
Bro, you're going out of here.
He hit me.
Bro, he hit me so hard, Danny.
It's like back in the old days, I used to see my mom
take a straightening comb and put it on the fire.
They call it a hot iron, and that's how they straighten their hair.
And he hit me so hard, I swear to God, it felt like somebody took a straightening
comb and went from the front to the back of my head, man.
But when I got my equilibrium back, listen, man, I, I hit him so hard,
the bone that I hit him so hard on my left that the bone came through the skin.
What?
They had to take bone fragments out right here and you can see
where they had two pins crisscrossing each other to hold the bone in place.
And I lost my knuckle here.
I literally, I tried, I tried to tear his head off.
We both went to the hospital that day.
And that's where you got the silver cross word.
I got a silver cross award for coming to the aid of a sergeant.
And it's in that folder right there that I have.
So I don't want to go cross award.
I don't want a silver cross award.
I'm named deputy of the month, 1997, deputy of the month, 1999.
And all of a sudden I'm faced with natural life imprisonment without possible parole.
Who, who told you who was the first one to tell you that you were
facing natural life in prison?
That's what they said in court.
Oh, they said the DA said that.
Yeah, you're facing natural life without possible parole.
And then the court appointed attorney, he came and told me the same thing.
He says, Ray, you know, you faced with natural life in prison without possible parole.
I said, I'm not faced with nothing.
He said, if there's got a 98.8% conviction rate, I say, God got a conviction rate of 0%.
I'm not going to admit to something that I didn't do, man.
I'm going to trial.
So when he saw that I was very, you know, solid on what I was doing, what I was going to do,
he actually say, you know what?
I said, so further, I said, furthermore, where the drugs, right?
Well, I don't know.
I said, well, didn't you need to go check and get back with me?
I said, because there is no drugs.
There is no money.
There's no evidence whatsoever.
No evidence whatsoever.
I found out later that Ansel Pratt, the same guy I just showed you, who the
Brown Sheriff's Office tried to use as an informant, right?
He had just gotten arrested on January, January 11, 2000.
Okay.
For chasing a man down the street, Mr.
Eddie Frazier for dumping his trash.
So him and the detective, Richard Posante was the one who actually came and went
to the DA's, the grand jury.
They were the one went to the grand jury.
And that's another problem.
You don't get a chance to defend yourself against the grand jury.
What the cops do, they go and present the case to the grand jury and the grand
jury formulating the opinion about what they've been informed or what, what
they've been shown.
So you can't defend yourself.
Because if I had an opportunity to talk to the grand jury, I could
approve to them that everything these people said was a lie.
Right.
They never had no drugs.
They had never had no drugs or no money.
It was all based on fabrication.
Now, explain to me why you can't defend yourself in front of the grand jury.
Because you don't, you're not allowed to go in front of the grand jury.
And the grand jury, they basically come up with an indictment.
That seems ridiculous.
Yeah, it is ridiculous because how do you defend yourself?
Because, you know what, the internal fairs division, they never even
caught me in for a garrity statement.
They haven't, you can ask anybody in law enforcement, anyone that works in
law enforcement will tell you that internal fairs has a fiduciary duty.
That if a man or woman goes out and commit a crime, and there's, if there's a
complaint that's brought up against that person, you have to go in, you have
to swear in, and as you begin to swear in, they actually state your name, your
CC and them and everything else.
It's audio and video.
At no time did the broad share for if it's ever called me down here and asked
me if I had any association with any type of criminal activity.
Not one time did they, they do it, but they lied and said that they did.
So to be honest with you, it's a shame to answer your question.
I think it's in you, Maine, that you can't go to the grand jury and say, Hey,
listen, my name is Raymond Hicks.
I didn't commit these crimes.
When these people said I was going to these various states, Danny, I'm going
to show you, I got records to show you that I was at work.
And if that be the case, then how is it that they don't have evidence to show
that I was going to these states?
Right.
Because if I was going to multiple, multiple states, right?
I had to have gone to the tolls.
Exactly.
Okay.
They have to have some type of surveillance pictures.
They have to have some type of surveillance pictures.
They had nothing, zero.
But, but their means was to destroy me zero and no money trail whatsoever.
None, no proof that you had this money or made any money at all.
There was never no money of drugs.
Right.
So, so you and your public defender, your first public defender, what were you guys
doing?
What was your plan?
Well, my plan was to go to trial.
And what, what, what did he say?
He said, you know what?
I'm getting off this case.
Really?
He said, I'm on a manuscript.
I'm, I'm gonna, he said, Ray, on a manuscript, write down everything that
happens because one day this could possibly a bestseller book, maybe a movie.
Well, you know what?
I took his advice and I begin to write.
And here it is, the book title.
I'm still standing by Raymond Hicks.
And he got off the case.
And then they gave me another quarter point of attorney, Mr.
Ruben Garcia.
He comes in and tell me, well, Ray, you know, the fairs got a 98.8%
conviction rate and I told him the same thing.
I said, God got a conviction rate of 0%.
And I'm not going to admit to something that I did not do.
Just like I just told this other attorney, Mr.
Marty Faganbaum, I'm telling you, Mr.
Garcia, I'm not going to accept something that I didn't do, man.
I'm going to trial.
So all of a sudden my wife was able to go through her thrift savings.
And when she went through her thrift savings, we got an attorney by the name
of Michael Bloom.
He was a federal prosecutor, never lost the case in 15 years.
And Mr. Bloom came to see me.
He said, if I'd never seen an innocent man, you've wanted them and you
shouldn't be here.
The 15,000 or 30,000, whatever it is that my wife took out of her
thrift savings, that they retain as lawyer.
That's money that we could have saved up for vacation.
It's been 21 years now, me and my wife and kids that haven't taken a vacation.
You know why?
Because I've had to work paycheck to paycheck.
So to be honest with you, you know, listen, I don't, I'm not excited by money.
As I told Matthew Cox, as I told Mr.
Mark later, and I'm telling you, Danny, I truly thank God for your brother
platform, as well as Steve and Kobe, because to be honest with you, man,
there's stories like mine that needs to be told.
I can't tell you how many people have come in contact with me.
I can't tell you how many people I reached out to, state politicians,
the sheriff and everybody else.
Nobody would talk to me.
Nobody would help us.
So to be honest with you, it's a shame, it's a disgrace.
I've had cops come to me and tell me, man, I would have took my own life.
What do you mean, taking your own life?
Man, I've lost everything.
I said, no, you haven't lost everything.
You haven't lost your life.
You haven't lost your family.
You haven't lost those close friends of yours, like Anthony King,
Sergeant Booker, Ms. Fagan, some of these other people, man, that have helped
me and my wife and kids.
So to be honest with you, again, you know, but as a cop, you can't,
you can't tell a cop to go, like, listen, I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't
tell a cop to go through a fraud.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't tell a cop to go through a fraction
of what I've gone through.
So Michael Bloom was the name of your new attorney.
Yes.
When you guys first met and he agreed to take it to trial with you.
I have been praying, Danny.
I have been praying and fasting.
I fast for three days and three nights.
Matthew six and 15 says, when you fast, do not walk around with a sad
continuum, a continuance on your face to appear to a man that you're fasting
because your reward has already been given to you.
But when you do it in secret, then God will reward you openly.
And I fast for three days and three nights.
I ate no food.
I drank no water.
My pee looked like, uh, uh, yellow, like I don't know how yellow it was.
But it was yellow because you weren't drinking water.
No, I wasn't drinking anything, but I was reading the word of God.
Yet though they slayed me, I'm still going to trust God.
I'm still going to trust God.
And to be honest with you, I thank God every day.
Every day I thank God for sustaining me, for giving me the endurance to be able
to put up with these, these, these tragic situations that me and my wife and
kids of his, um, experience.
My mother, it's a shame.
It's a disgrace, man.
It is, man.
So, so what was the trial like?
Yeah, a trial.
When he came to see me, I knew that he was sent.
I knew that God put him in my life because he said, if I never seen an innocent
man, you've wanted them and you shouldn't be here.
He went to visit my mother, my wife, and he told him, he said, you know what?
I know a drug dealer when I see one.
Your son and your husband is not a drug dealer and he shouldn't be there.
And I'm going to help him get home.
But you know, if I just back up for a second, Danny, you know, going back to the
whole man, when you take a person and you put them in this whole, let me tell
you something, you destroy human beings, man, because they would never be, some
of them would never be the same again.
If you don't have a relationship with God, if you're not strong physically and
mentally, Danny, it would destroy you.
Right.
Little is destroy you.
But then they took me and they, and before we went to trial and everything,
they put me down in general population.
GP, how do you take a cop and put him in GP?
How do you take a cop and put him in GP?
And everybody knew who you were.
Bro, I know, forget it.
When the, when the officers kept jigging at me, you that effing cop.
I hope you're going for the rest of your life.
All these things, right?
So finally I go to Mr.
Fernandez office and I hope when God bless me, I'm going to go find that brother.
Trust me.
And I'm going to bless him in his family.
I'm going to bless him in his family because I'll never forget the phone
call that he gave me to talk to my wife and kids.
And on top of that, he says, Ray, he said, listen, man, he said, you know,
the only other way you're going to have an opportunity to talk to your family
is by going down to general population.
I said, I don't care what you put me.
I'm going to hold my own.
So he took me and put me down in general GP.
And when he put me down in general population,
I was there with eight guys that I had arrested or I was over when I worked
in the jail, eight of them.
Every last one of them gave me the utmost respect.
No, man, not too big hicks.
No, man, no, you was a good one, man.
And all of a sudden this dude named Maurice, we call him blind
because he got these really thick, thick, thick glasses that he wear.
And here come this one inmate who saw my picture
paraded over the newscast, talking about, oh, that's that effing cop.
So Maurice told me, say, man, you know what that is?
Man, that's big hicks, man.
You tripping, man.
He come from where we come from.
He gonna thump, man, man, if I'm I hate effing cops.
So I go to put my bed roll down in my room
and there's a hundred and twenty two inmates in the unit, one officer.
So all of a sudden they all gathered around the door.
You got an upper tier in the Lord tier.
There's upstairs and downstairs.
Right. And of course, I go to put my bed roll down in my bed and in my room.
And there he is standing the door.
He was about six, two, six, four, two, seventy.
I was about six, one, two hundred and ninety some pounds back then.
I was doing fifteen, a thousand, fifteen hundred push ups every other day.
Every other day, because I'm conditioning my mind and my body
because I know at some point I'm going to have to go to war.
Well, guess what?
I told this freaking moron.
I told my son, you got a problem with me, man?
Come on in here.
We can handle this like men.
And all the inmates was like, yeah, man, you one of your mom going on in there.
And let me tell you something, Danny, I literally tried to kill him.
He tried to rush me.
He tried to rush me when he tried to rush me.
Listen, I've been like I said, I've been fighting ever since I was six years of age.
My whole family would tell you that my wife would tell you that my mother would tell you.
And I put them hands on when he hit that floor, I literally tried to kill him.
I tried to put my, I tried to put my fist through his brains.
Blood gets you from his face like a faucet.
And all of a sudden, inmates were like, come on, big homie, big homie.
Come on, man, you're going to, you know, and to be honest with you,
I was literally trying to kill him to make an example out of him.
But that, but that set the tone for the rest of them that was actually in the
unit where I was, to let them know, you see, you tried me, if you tried me,
I'm going to make you pay.
And his fans used to give us sardines.
And I took that lid from the, from the top of that sardine can, and I kept it in my jumper.
We wore a green jumper and I kept it with me.
Because I really want to finish him, to be honest with you.
I'm certainly glad you didn't, because you might not be here today.
Well, you know what, but, but then he, but guess what, that's self-defense.
Right, true.
I wasn't bothered to him.
I never said nothing to him.
He came at me.
Right.
That's another thing.
Don't put your hands on me.
Right.
Don't put your hands on me.
My wife, she'll tell you.
Don't put your hands on me.
Don't put your hands on me.
Because if you do, I'm going to make you kill me.
That's the way my dad was.
I watched my mom take potash and throw it on my father.
It's almost like taking battery acid and tossing it on a person.
When it's the freaking skin melting off his body, my dad come back again.
When you look at that rainbow, when you, when you look at that rainbow, he hicks.
You look at that rainbow of my hicks.
There's nothing different about us.
Nothing.
My mother would tell you that.
The only difference, I'm not purging eyes into my wife body.
I'm not stabbing her.
I haven't shot my wife.
I don't do these things, man.
You know, these freaking people, man, it's a shame, it's a disgrace.
You know, and like I told him, I know one thing.
That set the tone for the rest of them.
I tell you that.
Yeah, I can imagine.
I'm not afraid of nothing, man.
Nothing.
If it's my time, it's my time.
I can't avoid it.
But you're not, but you won't punk me.
No.
And anybody that know me will tell you that.
What do they do to you after you beat the shit out of that guy?
They did nothing.
Nothing?
No, because they couldn't to determine who it was.
Right.
But typically when, isn't it true that when there's like big fights that they put both people in the shoe?
Well, what they do is that officers come.
Right.
And when they come and they see you fighting, then yeah, they take both of you to the shoe.
Yes.
But that didn't happen again.
They didn't get in the shoe for that.
No.
Because everybody scattered.
Right.
Okay.
Everybody started running.
So who are you going to grab?
Right.
What is he going to say?
He started the fight.
Right.
I didn't start it.
He started it.
I didn't come in his room.
He came in my room.
You know, the law says that if there's an imminent threat, if there's an imminent threat, you have the right to do what?
Remove that threat.
Right.
You can't hit a person and think that person's not going to hit you back.
That's self-defense.
Mm-hmm.
You hit me first.
Why you hit me?
So when the cop come and investigate the case, hey, hey, Danny, did you hit him?
Yeah, I hit him.
Okay.
What did he do?
Well, he knocked me out.
Okay.
Well, you hit him first, right?
So how are you going to take me to jail?
Right.
Now, there is something called simple battery.
I didn't batter nobody.
He came to me.
Mm-hmm.
No, man.
No.
No.
No.
No.
So after this, and Michael Bloom became your attorney, can you explain to me what it was like, the process of going to that trial?
And obviously there was a jury.
It was a jury trial, correct?
Yes.
So they had to select a jury?
Yes.
And explain the process.
How long did it take?
Well, on August 27th of 01, they came to me and Mr. Bloom said, hey, we're going to go to trial, which is what I wanted to hear.
Because they had offered me a 5K1, which is a downward departure and immunity.
Also, immunity is when, if they give you a 5K1, it's for you to testify against somebody else.
And if that person chooses to go to trial, right, then now they're going to offer you immunity, which is another reduction in your sentence.
I told them I'm not taking nothing.
And I told Mr. Bloom, man, I'm ready to go to trial, and we went.
So they...
On September 27th of 01, we went to trial.
They were going to let you walk in exchange for cooperating against some other people?
Yes.
Well, I called the fitness.
So I had been incarcerated for 11 and a half months, and they told me, you're going to do 16 and a half months, and you'll go home in three months.
I told them, the devil's a liar.
I'm going to trust God and know that God's going to deliver me.
I'm going to trial.
So they wanted me to allow these other six people and send them to prison for natural life.
I told them if they did wrong, you go get them, but you're definitely not going to use me.
So they offered me 16 and a half months, even though I was faced with natural life imprisonment without possible parole.
I told them I'm not taking nothing.
I'm going to trial.
And on September...
On October 27th of 01, Mr. Bloom and I went to trial.
And during the course of trial, let me tell you something.
Danny, when the marshals take you to court, they have your hands in front of you like this in a box, and they have a change intertwining with the shackles.
And I'm telling you, it's like somebody taking a razor blade cutting my ankle as you take steps to get to the courtroom.
And of course, when I got there, they...
Listen, I had a chill that came over my body that I can't even describe to you.
It felt like I was in Alaska with no clothes on.
It was so cold.
In the courtroom?
It's just a chill that came over my body.
Right.
They chose an all-white jury.
Really?
Yes.
They chose 11 whites, one black and one black alternate.
All business people.
And I just began to recite the 23rd song.
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not one.
He make me to lie down a green pastas.
He prepared the table before me and the president of my enemies.
But I continue to trust God.
I continue to trust God.
Most people would have taken a plea.
Yes.
Whether they guilty or not guilty.
Absolutely.
Not me.
Not me.
I told my brother to take life imprisonment.
I'm not going to admit to something that I didn't do.
So what was the district attorney saying once you got to court?
The same thing she said in the magistrate court.
I went to the court that I went to all these states to live in all these kilograms of cocaine.
Okay.
That was equivalent to $750 million.
So the judge said, what are drugs?
Right.
She said, we have no drugs.
He says, where the money?
We have no money.
Judge Wrecker, this man got a mustache that's curled up at the end.
Yeah, his mustache like curled up at the end, right?
Man, he'll give you a million years, I was told, if you found guilty.
And of course, he slammed the gavel so hard and called for sidebar.
When they went to sidebar, he said, for impeachment purposes,
everything y'all said to bring this man in the courtroom,
you better come back and hit with the same information.
And he says, why is this man here?
Oh, he gave confidential law enforcement information.
F C I C N C I C.
That's the document that I was showing you Danny,
right before we start the podcast.
Right.
Well, the communication operator testified Captain Moon as she said,
I went to check Mr. Hicks has not ran this information.
It's controlled by your social security number.
And she said, furthermore, there's a certificate completion from FDLE.
There's a sign in sheet.
And she says, Mr. Hicks has not ran this information.
Then they lied and said I was on audio tape.
When they played the tape for the jury and the judge,
I just showed you where it says missing documents turn up in deputy lawsuit
where the same person who arrested me at my home,
it was him on the tape giving the information this that I gave.
What was his name?
Bernard Brown.
Bernard Brown.
Internal Affairs called him down there.
Sergeant Joseph Fitzpatrick called him down there and interviewed him.
Next thing you know, he admitted that it was him on the tape.
He was promoted to a detective.
After they found out it was him on the tape?
Yes.
After they found out that it was him on the tape,
the same tape I let you listen to, I let Mark listen to,
and I let Matthew listen to,
is the same tape that they called him in there from Internal Affairs.
And guess what?
He admitted that it was him on the tape.
And they promoted him to a detective.
Did he have to leave that department and go to another department?
No, he stayed with the Broward Sheriff's Office.
He stayed with the Broward Sheriff's Office.
And what he did to you?
Everybody was promoted.
They still work over there right now to this day.
There is no accountability.
There is no transparency.
But I'm very optimistic that when the right people
and the right person hear this situation,
I can promise you that...
they're going to know that Raymond Lamar Hicks was not a criminal.
And that's why I thank God for Ms. Jane Turner.
I love this lady.
I love this lady.
Ms. Sarah, yourself, Danny.
Matthew Cox, Mark Laiter.
Man, I love you guys, man.
It wasn't by coincidence.
God knew, cause I've been praying for 21 years.
I've been fighting for 21 years.
And that's after losing everything.
My home, my cars, my finances.
I couldn't even feed my family.
I was praying for food stamps and unemployment.
I couldn't get it.
And the person I told you, he gave me a job as a labor,
gas and naked, making $9 an hour, working 13 hours a day.
The same person who went to prison two or three times
was the same individual that gave me a job.
As a labor.
Now he guess what?
His son worked out with the Miami Dolphins,
Jonathan Akins, his other son, Mark Keats Aiken,
worked out with Jacksonville Jaguars.
He owned his own construction company right now.
Wow.
So people can change.
Who's this?
Is that Bernard Brown?
That's Bernard Brown.
So Bernard Brown was the person behind all of this.
Bernard Brown was the person who arrested me.
That guy right there.
But was he sort of like the spearhead
behind this whole thing against you?
No.
Okay.
No.
It was Joseph Damiano who still worked
at the Brown Sheriff's Office right now.
Okay.
Richard Passanti, Ricky Clark, William Canine,
all of these people.
And they all wanted to do this because they feared
that you were going to expose some of the stuff
that they were doing.
Well, absolutely.
In 1999, my wife and I bought a Mercedes Ben.
You're going to read it in the book.
The car was a 1990, it was a 1993.
We bought the car in 1999.
It cost us $37,000.
I got the documents and everything.
But BSO tried to use an informant and say a prat
that I just showed you.
Right.
Who was arrested?
He was the one telling all these lies.
He the one came up with the $750 million.
He the one came up with 350 kilograms of coke.
He came up with, I was giving confidential law enforcement
information.
That guy.
And you said they paid him?
Yeah, they paid him.
They paid him 20,000 and 15,000.
That's documented?
Absolutely.
Wow.
Absolutely.
So they went in my car.
My brother was washing my car.
And when they went in the car, they said,
how could your brother afford this car?
He must be selling drugs.
So when my brother called me, I went to the location
where he was.
So I called communication.
And when I called communication, I said,
can you have the Sergeant 56 me at my 1020?
Which means have the Sergeant meet me at my location?
Well, the Sergeant never showed up.
So when he didn't show up, I called my Lieutenant,
Ron Thompson.
And I told, I said, Sergeant Thompson,
the drug task force just went in my car
because they called him the Raiders.
And the hood, they called the drug task force the Raiders,
the jump out boys.
So of course that's the same group that I was working with.
So of course they, he said, Ray,
when you get to work, go down to internal affairs
and file your complaint.
I went down to internal affairs.
I spoke to Sergeant Charles Take.
And when I spoke to Sergeant Charles Take of internal affairs,
he said he had other complaints from the community
where those same individuals were misusing their authority.
And he was going to conduct a thorough investigation.
Well, even though my investigation wanted an investigation,
my complaint, they never did a thorough investigation.
And you're going to see in this book how Sergeant Take
took my 911 tape from a communication
and he gave it to the Sergeant who arrested me.
And Sergeant Take right now, Sergeant Charles Take,
he's deceased.
He just died recently.
As well as Bernard Brown, right?
And Bernard Brown is deceased.
So I don't think we got to it both.
Let's go back to your first trial again.
So where do we leave off?
You asked me about being in court
and I began to tell you about how there was chills all over my body.
Right.
And I recited the 23rd song.
And the judge called for a sidebar.
He called for a sidebar.
Okay.
And he asked them, where were the drugs?
Where were the money?
Right.
They had no drugs and money.
He said, so why is this man here?
And that's when they said I was given
confidential law enforcement information.
Okay.
And then you proved that it wasn't you.
What happened was my attorney
submitted the communication operator, Captain Munez.
Yes.
And she proved that it was not me.
Okay.
Then what?
And then of course, they said I was on audio tape.
So when they played the tape for the jury and the judge,
they found out that it wasn't me on the tape.
But in fact, it was Bernard Brown.
And this was played for the jury?
It was played for the jury and the judge.
Then what?
Then that's why his title missing documents turned up
in deputy lawsuit because all of a sudden the jury, right,
the case went to the jury for deliberation.
Okay.
The jury came back with a not guilty verdict
within 30 minutes.
Wow.
And they say they could have come back within 10 minutes.
And the judge, he was so infuriated
that the two people who took a plea, right,
he gave them time to serve.
Really?
Yes.
Did any, what were the repercussions
for the officers that arrested you?
They was promoted.
They were just all promoted.
That was it?
Yes.
How, how is that possible?
Your guess as good as mine.
Did you see damages as you sue the shit out of them?
I sued them, but it went nowhere.
They had to disqualify the judges.
That's why you're going to have to read the book, Danny,
because I'm going to tell you right now,
it's literally going to blow your mind.
The first judge who was involved in my case,
he was, he was directly involved in my criminal case.
He winded up with my civil case.
Really?
And his brother was a high ranking official
at the Brown Sheriff's Office as a major
over human resources.
So there was an attorney that called my attorney,
you know, and told me, he said, hey, if I'm not mistaken,
this attorney was directly involved in Hicks criminal case,
where he signed off on a pending register,
which is a wiretap with the detective who arrested me,
Richard Passanti.
So all of a sudden the judge, the judge, the judge said,
well, I thought you guys knew that I had a brother
who was a high ranking official at the sheriff's office.
And all of a sudden he signed a letter recusing,
recusing himself.
But how do you, how do you, how do I don't understand it?
How is it that the judge is directly involved in my criminal
case, where he signed off on a pending register,
a wiretap with the detective who arrested me,
and then ultimately he winded up with my civil case?
How?
Right.
Yeah, that's odd.
Well, I never, I never got a dime from,
from everything that I went through.
Did you get your job back?
No, they offered me my job back within two weeks.
They didn't give me my job back.
They continued with harassment.
How did they harass you?
After I was exonerated, the jury came back with the
not guilty verdict.
I went home.
And when I went home, I don't know how to even describe
to you, just to be there with my wife and kids, man.
And of course, um...
After how long total were you gone?
Sixty and a half months.
Sixteen months, you finally went home.
Yeah.
But my wife and kids, and I have to mention,
you know, my wife stood up in the pink.
You know?
She stood up in the pink.
And she did everything she could to make sure
that she took care of the family while I was gone.
But can you imagine, Danny, if somebody stormed your home
right now, at gunpoint, and tell your wife,
you get the freak back, and tell your kids,
shut up, or you could go with them.
Or, hey, get DCF out here and get these kids out of here.
Your wife is asking questions.
What is going on?
I can't imagine, man.
I can't fucking imagine.
And all of a sudden, they drag you out of your home.
They drag you out of your home in front of your kids now.
Handcuffed and shackled.
Your two boys.
I can't fucking imagine, man.
I can't fucking imagine.
And they tell you, now you gone for natural life,
they say, your wife is asking a question.
What do you do?
All of a sudden, while you incarcerated,
your wife tell you, hey, Danny,
I just want to let you know our home is being
foreclosed on now.
Hey, Danny, I just want to let you know the rain
that you bought me, I had to pawn that to the pawn shop
for $700.
Your kids are asking you questions.
Hey, dad, when you coming home?
Now your wife, she's asking you questions.
What do I do?
You watch them stand in this long line
where it's unpleasant weather.
It's raining.
It's sunny.
It's cold.
For hours.
They come and visit you for one hour.
And she come in and tell you, hey, Danny,
I'm sorry to tell you.
Listen, all the money and everything that we have is gone.
The cars has been repossessed.
The house has been foreclosed on.
And I don't even have money to get a snack
out of the vending machine for you.
How about a couple dollars to get a snack?
What did you do?
I don't know what I would do, man.
I mean, I got to imagine that's got to,
that was the lowest point in your life.
But that's what I'm saying.
I talked to her brother the other day, Alex,
and he said, it's just a kind of,
he went through a situation.
I don't even know his situation.
But he said, man, my hat goes off to you.
He said, because if someone ever tell you
that they know what you've been through,
they don't know what you've been through.
No.
Words don't do it justice.
There's no words that could do it justice, man.
You trying to take care of your family?
You know, you faced with natural life imprisonment.
I want you to vision this.
You faced with natural life imprisonment
without possible parole.
Okay?
Right.
And your wife is telling you,
everything you guys worked for is gone.
It's gone.
Why?
Because I choose not to take drugs.
I choose not to plant drugs.
Don't take my word, Danny.
Go to 1991 and Google,
and you type in DEA state,
$200 million went missing.
And some of our people that worked at the sheriff's office
replaced on desk duty.
$200 million went missing in the DEA state?
Yes, $200 million went missing.
Where?
That's a good question.
You're referring to your case?
No, this was in 1991.
Okay, okay, okay.
They said there was a DEA state
where $200 million went missing.
Two of our individuals placed on desk duty.
These people sent me death threats.
They told me and my wife,
they told me I'd be lying in my room in a pile of blood.
I'd be lying in my room in a pile of blood.
Who sent these death threats?
The Brown Sheriff's Office.
How did they send them?
They left it on my answering machine.
Yeah.
So I called communication,
and I called communication 911,
and I told them I said,
my name is Raymond Hicks,
I'm a former deputy sheriff for the Brown Sheriff's Office.
My CC is 4693.
Can you dispatch a unit to my home
because I'm receiving death threats?
They left it on my answering machine
and I'd be lying in my room in a pile of blood.
You got that saved?
It's gone.
Everything is missing now
because we was kicked out of the house.
Right.
So what I did is this.
It's been recorded
because when I called communication,
they dispatched a unit to my home.
The guy name was Rick Watson.
Deputy Rick Watson came to my house.
I said, Rick, listen to this audio tape.
Listen to what they left on my answering machine.
And when you listen to it,
you say, Ray, be careful, man.
You know how these people play.
Mm-hmm.
I told them, I said,
the only thing I need you to do is a 98A Alpha,
which is a written report.
That's when I called my mom
and I went and bought an AK with 180 rounds.
I told my mom,
you might as well go get your black dress, man.
Because I'm not going to let these people
come in and kill me and my whole family.
Right.
Right.
But my mom said,
well, wait a minute, son,
but did not God deliver you?
Are you not there in your home with your effect?
And this was before I got kicked out the house.
And I took the gun back to the same people
that I got the gun for.
It's a shame, man.
It's a disgrace.
But to this day, I still love law enforcement.
I tell anybody that.
When I wore the uniform, how about this?
Several people have watched the video
that Matt put up
and Mark put up
and may God be my witness.
Some of them from the Brown Sheriff's office.
Ray, I'm sorry, man.
Oh, really?
I'm talking about captains,
lieutenants, sergeants, deputies.
Any of the guys involved in your case?
No.
None of those guys ever reached out?
No.
I bet you they've seen it.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And they know I'm speaking the truth.
I'll never forget it, man.
My mother beat me one time.
Listen, I'm going to tell you something.
I took...
My mom had this coconut...
pickle jar.
And she put these coconut bar cookies in the jar.
And she told me and my brother and sister,
she said,
listen, I'm going to give you guys some cookies,
but don't go back in there and save some for another day.
And guess what?
Since my mom worked two jobs,
she worked at John's Island Cleaning People's Homes,
and she worked as a migrant worker,
making a dollar an hour to take care of us.
When she went to work,
I went in the cookie jar and I ate the cookies.
All of them?
No, I ate some of them.
Okay.
And my mom's unbeknownst to me,
she counted the cookies.
So she said,
who went in the cookie jar?
I said, I don't know.
So she asked my brother and sister, Bobby,
LaHoma, who went in the cookie jar?
Mommy, I don't know.
So my mom said,
I'll tell you what,
go get out them clothes.
So we had to strip down to nothing.
And she said,
go get the extension cord.
And I stripped down,
went and got the extension cord.
And she said,
I'm going to ask you again,
who ate the cookies?
I said,
mom, I ate the cookies.
She said,
why did you lie?
I said,
because I thought you was going to beat me.
She said,
I'm still going to beat you.
I'm not going to beat you
because you ate the cookies,
but I'm going to beat you
because you're lying to me.
I lied then.
But when I was faced
with natural life imprisonment,
no,
I want to take life.
Because I'm not going to ever
admit to something that I didn't do.
If it cost my life,
then guess what?
You're not going to convince me
and tell me that I did
something that I didn't do.
That's not going to happen.
Like I was telling you though,
before we started recording this,
you have an undeniable will.
And I can't imagine the people,
I'm sure this has happened
to many people besides yourself
that didn't have that will
and determination that you had
to fight to the death for yourself
and for your family.
And I'm sure there's people
who are sitting in prison today.
I mean, there's definitely a lot of them
who are completely innocent.
You're absolutely right.
That took place.
Yes.
Because you know what?
That's why I put in my book.
So many people are forced to plead bargain
to avoid facing an increasingly hard sentence
because they cannot afford
these high-powered lawyers.
And that's one of the things
that your deputy was telling me.
What's his name again?
Sergeant Booker.
Sergeant Booker.
I was talking to him last night.
Yeah, he was a sergeant.
He told me, he said,
Danny, the federal prison system
is a business.
And I think I could be wrong,
but I think the number is like
70-something billion dollars a year
is made through the federal prison system,
which is bananas.
That, I mean, it's the worst part
of capitalism is what it is.
That we can have a system,
a business in the United States
that profits off keeping people in a box.
That profits off putting innocent people in jail.
And it's just this destructive race
to the bottom is what it is,
of locking up people no matter what.
Like get them to plea, get them in jail,
and it's not a system that is geared towards
fixing a problem or fixing society
or making our country better, right?
If you want to make your country better,
you want to make your people better,
not just profit off the people by locking them up.
So it's just, it's just, it's so sad to me
to see, to hear stories like yours
and just to see how corrupt
and how it's really when you,
when you boil it all down,
it's all about money.
It's all about greed, money,
and unfortunately, the worst thing,
the worst atrocities happen
when the people are the most desperate.
And unfortunately, these people don't make enough money.
These, like we said in the beginning of this podcast,
a lot of the people that you were dealing with
and you were working with,
they barely make enough money to afford to live.
They're living paycheck to paycheck.
But you know, you gotta have jails, you know,
because there are a lot of people that go out
and commit crimes, and those people should be,
they should be incarcerated.
I don't care if it's me, my wife, my kids, or whoever.
You made your bed hard, you gotta lie down in it.
But there's a lot of innocent people
that are facing time for crimes
that they've never committed, like myself.
But how do you change the direction of the system?
The only way you can change it
is by putting the right people in place.
And that's another thing, you know,
we vote these people in the office,
we put these people in the office, right?
And next thing you know, they get in there
and they forget about who they are.
How do I know that?
Because that's what happened to me.
A good friend of my, a personal friend of me and my family,
turned this back on me and my wife and kids.
After I went out there and did everything I could
to help him become, you know, the chair for Broward County.
But through it all, I don't wish him no ill feelings.
But one thing is for sure,
I would never have nothing to do with him
the longest day I live.
I mean that.
Why?
It's because of the fact that you showed me your true color.
I showed you my loyalty, me and my family.
But at the end of the day,
and that's the only way we can change the system
is by changing the mindset of individuals
who actually wear these uniforms.
How do you get people like the guys
that are working in your, your, your department?
How do you get people, more people like yourself who want,
and when you're talking about stuff like this,
you can't really just talk about like the country, right?
We should, you should distill it down to the communities,
the individual communities,
especially when it comes to, to police departments
that live in the communities that they operate in.
How do you get those people, the watchmen,
to want to make their own community a better place
and to do the right thing?
It's having the right people's in place.
From the sheriff all the way down to the deputy.
From the sheriff all the way down to the deputy.
My wife would tell you in 2020, I ran for sheriff.
You can Google it.
I was running as a Republican,
but I've always been Democrat,
but a friend of mine, Mr. Eugene Steele,
who's deceased now,
he actually was running in the race with us
and he read my book and he says, oh my God,
he says, Ray, man, listen, I can help you.
I can get the Republican Party to run behind you.
I was getting endorsement by the Republican Party,
Democrat and nonpartisan.
You know what they did?
They removed me from the race.
Why?
Because I was speaking the truth.
When we went to these debates,
they found that they disqualified me.
I paid $11,357.84.
And I qualified.
I can send you the documents showing that they,
from the, from the, from the Browdy County,
the people who you have to pay the money to,
you know, in Browdy County.
I went down there for my campaign fund and everything.
I paid $11,354 and $354.87 if I'm not mistaken.
And I qualified.
And they found a way to disqualify me.
They had the judge remove me from the race.
So there's one guy who was,
who was running for sheriff.
Also as a Republican,
he joined ship with Evan Pollock,
who was, who was running as Democrat.
And he was Republican.
So the two of them joined together and they filed a lawsuit
to get me out the race.
So the judge removed me from the race.
But you know, to be honest with you,
I wasn't, I didn't care about the fact of being a sheriff.
What I cared about was getting my information out there
to the people and they let the people know that
it's a Nazi game that these people's playing.
But I can tell you one thing.
Just recently, just to show you,
there was a brother who was sentenced by the Browdy Sheriff's Office
for 400 years.
You can Google the information.
You can go to YouTube and see it.
I think his name is Mr. Harvey.
B.S. O.S. is sentenced this man to 400 years in prison.
After 34 years of incarceration,
they found out that he was innocent.
They just released him just a few months ago.
Would you ever consider running for sheriff of B.S. O.S. again?
You know, so many people have asked me, you know,
but they'd be honest with you.
You think you can, you think you can make a difference?
You can move the needle?
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
Because with, with some of the attention that you've received online
podcasts, I think you're already doing something and moving the needle.
But you got to think about it though, Danny.
You know, what a lot of people don't know is when you,
when you start campaigning, right?
When you start campaigning and these people see...
Oh, this is him.
Florida man given 400 year sentence expected to walk free.
Sorry to interrupt.
Yeah, that's what happened.
He did 34 years in prison and with the new state attorney
who actually had a public corruption department, right?
Which I'm waiting to go talk to them as well.
And, you know, they found an innocent project out of New York.
Yep. I've had guys in here from the Innocence Project.
These guys gone free.
Oh, this is him.
Oh, he's from Tampa.
Oh, wow.
Well, there's a guy, no, it's his name is Harvey.
The gentleman that I'm talking about.
Oh, that's a different, they just interviewed a different guy.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, that's a different, that's a different guy.
The one I'm talking about his name is Harvey.
And it's in Broward County.
Wow.
Apparently there were two people.
Yeah.
That's even worse.
So to be honest with you.
It's happening all the time.
It's happening every day.
Yeah, if you go to YouTube and you type in Broward State Attorney,
release man after 34 years, it comes right up.
And it's a shame because how do you give a person 34 years
of life back?
You can't.
They sent a sentence of 400 years for a murder.
And you have to go through like an excruciating lawsuit.
After this happens, a lot of people that spend,
I had a guy in here that spent like 30 something years in prison too.
And they have to fight tooth and nail to get any sort of compensation
for being wrongfully sentenced to prison for decades.
And you know, the problem with that is even if you get paid
a couple million dollars for spending 30 years in prison,
is it really worth it?
Like if someone came up to you right now,
this is how you got to think about it.
If someone came up to you right now and said,
how much money would be enough money to spend 35 years in prison?
No.
There's no amount of money.
No.
No.
I wouldn't do it.
I don't want to spend one day in there.
No.
I don't want to spend an hour in there.
I don't want to spend a second in there.
Because from the time that you get arrested,
and you booked in, your whole life changed.
Yep.
Your whole life changed.
Your whole life is just systematically dismantled.
Yeah.
Your family, your kids, everything.
Yeah, everything has changed.
Them kids, I'm telling you, my kids have literally watched me
be drug out of my home in handcuffed and shackled.
So after you got back, and after you got exonerated
on the first sentence, and you were getting harassed,
you were getting these death threats,
you bought the AK, but then you returned it,
what happened after that?
Well, they came at me again.
On January 4th, January 6th, 2004,
another six or something cops threw at my home at gunpoint.
Said I was shooting at someone in my backyard.
My neighbor, his name was Sergeant McCorms.
He said, wait a minute, I just saw Ray and Teresa in the elevator.
They done roped off the house, yellotaped everything.
And here come this black dude that didn't know me
from the department.
Apparently, he was a rookie.
He's going to come tell me, put your effing hands behind your back.
I said, man, if you put your freaking hands on me,
one of us is going to leave here today.
So my neighbor, Lisa, she came across the street.
She said, Raymond, come on, man, don't do this, man.
I said, man, this freaking dude, I said,
this must be a repercussion of my silver case.
So Dave Robshaw, he said, you know what that is?
That's Hicks, man.
Hicks one of our top deputies.
And he basically just ignored that.
He's telling me that he going to make me.
I said, I eat mace.
And all of a sudden, I'm there handcuffed in my backyard
for almost six hours.
So this white guy showed up in my yard.
I tell my wife, I said, go show, I said, trees,
go show him the document showing that we was in court.
Who's the white guy?
He was, had to be a lieutenant or captain.
Okay.
So of course, my wife showed it to him.
With the second they dissipated.
They were all gone in seconds.
Then they, then they sent me a charge in the mail
saying that I discharged the firearm.
So I take that case to trial in Dillfield
before Honorable Judge Stephen Deluca
and the judge say, well, we're the victim.
We don't have a victim.
Did you do a ballistic test?
No.
We're in a bullet case and none.
He said, so you mean to tell me you bring a
holiday decorated outfit in my courtroom,
saying he committed these heinous crimes,
but you have nothing to substantiate the charges.
So, so my attorney presented the documents to him
showing that my wife and I had gone to court.
But then, within 10 minutes, I was tried by the courts
and was acquitted by the judge.
So what did I do?
I began to fast and pray again.
I went into the community.
I won the highest award.
I won the African-American chiefs award.
You can go to Google and type in African-American
chiefs.com.
You'll see me there 2004 Raymond Hicks
for reading education.
I have 25 kids get their high school diploma in GED.
Wow.
And all of a sudden, guess what happened?
They come at me a third time.
What?
What happened the third time?
They said, they said I committed child abuse.
I said child abuse.
So when they came to my home, 15 cops stormed my home.
Right?
So when they stormed my home, and all of a sudden,
my, um, there I am right there.
That's me.
Top left?
Yeah.
Wow.
African-American chiefs.
I won the highest award.
The only way you can win that award,
a philanthropist, Mr. Jim Moran,
is when you go out in your community and make a difference.
I have 25 kids get their high school diploma in GED.
I helped my mother at the age of 55,
my brother at the age of 32,
with the help of my wife and my oldest daughter.
And they came at me a third time.
This time, they were looking to kill me, daddy.
But they didn't realize my oldest daughter,
she was 18 years of age, and my son was four.
What year was the third time they came out?
How long was that?
October 10th, 2005.
Okay.
So this was roughly like three years,
four years later, something like that, after the first trial?
Yes, after the first trial.
Right.
And the second trial, was 2004.
Right.
And then the following year, 2005, October 10th, 2005.
So I'm assuming that you took this one to trial, too?
Yes, I was taking it to trial.
And then, all of a sudden, you ain't got to take my word.
I'd get Deputy Richard Lieder called you and tell you,
because he was the one who booked me in.
I get down, first of all, the sergeant,
it was a white sergeant, a black deputy.
So all of a sudden, the two of them engaged in a verbal confrontation.
And he said, the sergeant said,
put the effing cups on him, like I told you to.
So I couldn't get my arms in back of me, because I was too wide.
So Crumb said, man, he going to need a double set of cups.
After that, put the effing cups on him, like I told you to.
So, of course, he saw that he was not going to back down.
So then they put me in sheikles.
Don't take my word.
You get Deputy Richard Lee on the phone,
and I guarantee you he'll tell you the same thing.
And when I get down to booking,
they had 25 cups there with black gloves on, waiting on me.
And the Sally Port.
They said I was violent.
So when Lee heard it, he said, man, I know I could calm him down, man.
Because I'm the one who helped him get the job at the Briar Sheriff's Office.
And all of a sudden, you know, they saw that I wasn't violent.
I was talking to Deputy Fickarora.
She was a female that went through the Crossover Academy with me in Palm Beach.
We were talking about our family.
We were talking about God.
And they all walked inside.
And I said, when he got ready to book me in, I said, what did he arrest me for?
I said, child abuse.
I said, child abuse?
I'm like, what child have I abused?
I don't even put my hands on my own kids.
What'd they say?
They said I paddled a female cadet.
But they learned that it wasn't me.
You paddled?
A female cadet when I worked in the boot camp program.
And this female cadet was a child?
No, she was a teenager.
Okay.
But they said I paddled her.
Okay.
That was the biggest lie I've ever been told.
Everybody told them.
Drill instructor Hicks never paddled nobody.
It was Eleanor Sniff.
And they're saying that this happened when?
I couldn't even tell you when they said it happened.
But they arrest me in October 10th of 05 for it.
But they found out the prosecutor did a thorough investigation.
The state prosecutor did a thorough investigation.
She threw the case out.
No props.
You're going to see it in the book.
The same thing I'm talking about in this book.
I take appendix.
I got court.
I got the documents and everything.
Everything that I'm talking about here is in this little small book.
Okay.
Because the lady who edited my book, Miss Martha Moffitt that I love.
I've never even sat down with this lady not one time.
But she edited my book.
She was the former editor of the National Choir.
She's out of New Jersey.
The person who drew the cover of this book, his name is Mr. Dick Copple.
He drew a picture from a newspaper article.
And these are literally my knuckles.
Because he had me hold up two broomsticks.
And that's how he made the bars.
And I prayed and I said, Lord, what should the title be about?
And God said, I'm still standing.
I'm still standing.
But you in uniform.
When you look at this book, that's why you see the star there.
That represent me being in uniform.
Hold it up next to your face.
That makes, as you can see, the star, it's like me in uniform, but I'm arrested.
Because that's what this symbolizes.
So to be honest with you, you know, as I told everybody, they took something from me that I love.
Let me tell you something, Danny.
Everybody that I've campaigned for, I brought in 99.9% of the votes for them.
I'm talking about Hispanics, Caucasians, as well as minorities, blacks.
I get mad love from the community.
You know why?
Because I'm always doing something in the community to inspire other people.
To this day, I'm still inspiring people.
I'm still feeding the homeless.
My wife been working with the postal service now for 35 years.
Oh, wow. No way, really?
Yes.
Sometimes she worked 10-hour shifts.
I'm working now security.
I work 12-hour shifts.
What do you do for security?
I do special ops now for Apple.
So we look for any type of crisis situation.
You got to have certain credentials to do what I do.
You got to be retired.
And even though I fought to get my retirement, they gave me a partial retirement.
But I'm in the process of trying to get my full retirement.
I want my full retirement.
I want everything that's due to me and my wife and kids.
And that's why I'm going to continue to fight.
That's why I'm going to continue to speak.
I don't live from a dime from you or anyone else,
and I appreciate everything that you guys are giving.
You're giving me a platform for me and my family to be speaking about
the thing that we've experienced for the last 21 years.
And I hope and pray.
And I told Matt this, and I'm telling you the same thing,
and I told Martin that God is going to elevate you guys to that next level.
Not me.
Not me.
God.
And I hope with a prayer that the business and everything,
everything in your platform that you and Steven, all these other guys,
Matthew Cox and Mark later have, that's touching people's all over the world.
I hope and pray that your offspring, your kids, kids, kids,
can live off of you guys and what you're doing.
Because to be honest with you, it's all this time we've been suffering.
But through it all, you know, I stand firm.
I go through so much, man.
I started drinking.
I never took a drink of that in my life.
I used to my wife.
We've been together since I was 18 years of age.
Wow.
I'm 58 now.
I never took a drink until after this incident.
I went into the liquor store,
and the guy was like, Big Hicks, what you doing here, man?
I lied.
Oh, man, I'm buying some stuff for the guys down the street, man.
You know why?
Because I was ashamed.
But I wasn't buying it for nobody down the street.
I was buying it for me.
So to be honest with you,
people revert to those things that makes them feel comfortable.
People revert to those things that makes them feel comfortable.
You know?
If drinking makes you feel comfortable, you're going to drink.
If smoking makes you feel comfortable, you're going to smoke.
If working out makes you feel comfortable, you're going to work out.
If running makes you feel comfortable, you're going to run.
With you being out on the water,
If that's what makes you feel comfortable,
that's what you're gonna do.
Consider take you away from everything else.
Yeah.
So people revert to those things
that makes them feel comfortable.
Yes.
So to be honest with you,
what makes me feel comfortable
is the fact that I got my family,
I got my closest friends,
that I can count on my fingers.
And most importantly, I got God.
My Lord has saved us Jesus Christ.
And you know what I did?
So many brothers that have called me.
They didn't think I was gonna call him back.
They didn't think I was gonna respond.
I just talked to a cop yesterday,
my wife would tell you, inspiring him.
Cause he went through something,
not even remotely close to what I went through.
But what I told him was the truth.
And he's back on the force now.
So at the end of the day, you know,
I spoke to another brother out of North Carolina
who worked at BOP, Bill Prison,
brother Newton, he's Caucasian.
He'd blown away by my story
that he reached out to me.
I called him.
I could just go on with the list.
Jason, he's another one from New York,
straight red neck.
Lost everything.
But I told him, you didn't lose your life.
But I also told him, I said, listen,
it was predestined that God would bring us
in contact with each other.
Because he knew that it's one day you will need me
and I need you.
So to be honest with you, Danny,
the podcast that you all have,
Mark Matthew Cox, Mark Laiter.
Bro, I asked my wife.
I've been speaking for 21 years now,
saying the same exact thing.
Matthew Cox's short video is 3.5.2 million.
And two weeks.
It's wild.
500, almost 600 and some thousand viewers within one month.
Within one month.
Over 280 some viewers, Mark Laiter.
It's inspiring, man.
It's a really inspiring story.
And I'm hoping to pray that God takes you past millions.
All of y'all.
May God be my witness because what you're doing,
you allow me to speak the truth.
And you got some of these people that make comments.
How about this?
99.9% of the comments that's been made
on these platforms has been positive.
Do you read them and respond to them?
Absolutely.
I can show you on my phone.
My wife can tell you.
They can tell you.
I was talking to one of my brothers
from California, Phi Beta Sigma.
He didn't think I was gonna call him.
When I called him, he said, oh my God, oh my God.
So to be honest with you, listen.
I won't stop.
I'm not gonna stop.
They empowered me.
They made me stronger, Danny.
And you may say, well, how did they,
and you know, and I have to give a shout out to Ms. Kirby.
Ms. Kirby was a teacher, Caucasian, four foot 11,
100 pounds soaking wet.
And every time she asked me to read a sentence, right?
I got into a fight.
I got up to read a sentence, but I couldn't read it right.
But Ms. Kirby always tutored me.
So I went, and when I told her about the things
going on my home, I went from Ds and Fs to Cs and Ds,
to Cs and Bs, to A, Bs and Cs.
Well, you know what?
Ms. Kirby'd be proud of me today, because guess what?
I'm the author of a book, but I couldn't read it right.
I went back to college.
I graduated with a 3.97 GPA
from American Intercontinental University,
with my bachelor's degree.
I went and got my doctorate degree in theology.
But my ministry is not behind four walls.
My ministry is out here in the streets,
letting everybody know.
When you're going through trials and tribulations,
which is adversity, adversity to be a character
makes you stronger and bring you closer to a higher being.
So if you ain't got God in your life,
because some people say that I know God,
do you really know God?
Do you really know God?
So when you're going through the trials and tribulations
that me and my wife and kids have gone through,
my mother's 73 years of age right now,
and she's still trying to find a job at 73.
So when you talk about people coming from the hood,
this is one of the reasons why the young kids
go out there and do the things they do.
This is why they go to robbery.
This is really why they're shooting
and killing each other.
They don't have food to put on the table.
Right.
How could you take care of your family,
making the dollar now?
How could you take care of your family,
making the dollar now?
A dollar now, my mom worked at the packing house.
It's impossible.
Man, listen, I ain't got time to play no games, man.
Not me.
I ain't got time to play no games.
I don't.
Because there's a lot of Raymond Lamar Hicks
that's coming up.
A lot of them in the hood that we call the hood, poverty.
My clothes came from the World Thrift.
My mom would go to the World Thrift
and get the clothes from the Salvation Army
and wash them up and iron them.
Shoes came from Woolworth.
She paid three dollars for a pair of sneakers.
I'd go out there and play basketball on the asphalt,
you know, because I was a great athlete.
Football, basketball, and track.
I'd go out there and play basketball.
Next thing you know, the whole bottom come out of the shoe.
My mom say, I go to my mom's, I say, mom, listen,
my shoes, my shoes just broke.
No, my mom tell me, what do you mean, bro?
I said, mom, look, the whole bottom,
the whole bottom is gone from the shoe.
She said, well, you know what?
You're going to wear them in school,
but you're going to school.
Listen, there's so many Raymond Hicks in the hood, man.
And that's why I just want to inspire these young kids.
That's why my foundation, the Raymond L. Hicks Foundation LLC,
you can go to sunbears.org and look it up.
I give back to the community.
We have a, we have a, we have a book bag giveaway.
I have a big cookout.
It's a multicultural.
It's black, white, it's black.
It's a multicultural.
It's black, white, Hispanics.
Fort Lauderdale cops out there.
The brothers shared forces.
They used to send someone out there.
Last year, my fraternity brothers, the five beta Sigma,
Gamma Gamma Sigma, they came out and supported me.
And to be honest with you, I'm going to continue to get back.
I'm going to continue to inspire brothers.
I was just sitting, I was just this morning telling my wife,
I said, you know what?
We need to go get Danny to boy something.
I was getting ready to text you, but the place, you know,
they didn't have, the place was, it was closed.
Why?
They say, Hey, you know what?
Hey, little man, you know, this is from me and me and my wife.
As a matter of fact, the little girl that I,
we were going to get the tickets to, we was getting ready to go.
And she, she told her parents, she said, Oh, mommy, that this,
that's the guy.
Kids don't forget.
They don't know.
They don't forget.
And that's why I say, man, you know, what are we doing to make a
difference Danny?
Right.
You're doing everything you can, man.
I really, I really do believe that.
I believe that you're, you're making a difference in, in all
the work that you're doing and putting out your books and speaking
on platforms like this one.
I commend you for that, man.
That's very noble and I respect you for that, man.
It's, it's huge.
Um, where can people listening or watching find your book?
Find, you have an audio book as well?
Yes.
Audio book.
There's an audio book on Amazon.
Um, there's also, you can get the paperback book on Amazon.
Um, bonds and over online, Walmart online, um, books of a million online.
You know, and the only reason why my book is not in the stores is
because I have not gone to the stores and I have not reached out to those
channels in order to put the book into the stores like Barnes and Noble,
Walmart, but I truly believe that if whenever God for me an opportunity
to have, um, yeah, the book is, it's, it's some everywhere.
You know, and, um, I'm hoping and praying that, you know, um, one
day my, my books are actually in the stores because it's a very inspiring
book.
It is.
You know, and not only that, I talk about my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
I talk about how God, he brought me through.
I told Matt, I say, Matt, I pray with Matt and I'm hoping and praying
that you allow me to pray with you guys because at the end of the day,
this is what it's about.
And the reason why it's about that Danny is because of the fact that some
people may not know God, but I've known God ever since I was a little kid
where we didn't have food on the table.
My mother would stretch her arms towards heaven and say, Lord,
please send somebody to help me and my kids.
And Miss Maggie Wallace, she came down the street with three bags of
groceries, the father, the son, and the Holy spirit.
And I know forget it.
My mother, she cooked pork chops, rice and gravy that day.
If I'm dead on, I knew that there was a God.
I knew that there was a God.
Some people say, well, where's God?
Well, God is a spirit.
You know, it's just like you never knew me, Danny.
I never knew you, but I could tell you that I love you, man.
And I appreciate the fact that you afforded me the opportunity to be
here in your podcast with Steve and my wife talking about this, this
nightmare that I've gone through for the last 21 years.
But guess what?
But I'm not bitter and I'm not angry.
And that's real.
And the reason why I'm not is because of the fact that I trust my Lord
and save with Jesus Christ.
It's not about me.
So God chooses sometimes he chooses individuals to go through a
situation in life so that you can be a testament and a testimony to
somebody else.
It's just like when I saw you interview a mad cox and how you was
dissecting each segment and Matt was speaking on each one of the
things.
Oh, no, that's that.
No, that didn't happen like that.
Yeah.
But guess what?
But I told him.
I said, let me tell you something, man.
God gonna take you to level that you had never seen before.
Well, I'm gonna tell you this.
Look what the numbers are right now with him.
Well, listen, Raymond, thank you so much for doing this, man.
I love you, brother.
I love you too, man.
Thank you for doing this.
Thank you so much, Danny, you know, and I truly just thank God for
you, man.
And I pray that the Lord continue to bless you and your wife and
kids, you know, and each and everyone, Steve, you know, and each
and everyone else that you come in contact with, man, you know,
and and I pray that God take you elevate you guys to levels that
you hadn't seen before because you don't know like I told Matt and
Mark, you guys are reaching people's all over the world.
I've had people contact me from South Africa, Nigeria, UK, Toronto.
Worldwide, your story is worldwide now.
And you know what?
I'd never forget it.
Mr. Tom Devine said to me, he says, wait, I'm going to take
you in your family front of Congress.
Right.
And I'm waiting on that day, but he also said, I want you, I
want your story to captivate the audience attention around the
world.
Well, you know what, Danny?
I can sit here and honestly say to you that I've read and when
I'm working at night, guess what I do?
I go back and read the comments.
99.9% of the comments are very positive.
It's 1% that's instilled in disbelief.
Right.
He can't be telling the truth.
I don't believe it.
I don't this, I don't that.
One of the guys that did it, guess what?
I went back and I begin to speak about so many things that I
know that happened.
So to be honest with you, I don't have anything to prove it
to anybody.
God knows.
Mm hmm.
And I must mention my kids, man.
Man, when you talk about the kids.
I never wanted them to grow up in the hood.
No.
Because not everybody gonna make it there.
Mm hmm.
I didn't want my kids to grow up to have four or five kids from
different fathers.
Like my family.
Soon, Robin, dad.
My wife would tell you when I got to college, I'm fighting
every day.
I even had a 25 automatic in school at 18.
But no kids are doing so well, man.
My oldest daughter, my trees.
School teacher.
She's a school teacher.
My youngest daughter school teacher, my son, 20, work for
the Department of Homeland Security, TSA.
These kids with 12, 7 and 4.
Watch me drug out of my home.
Do it all.
And they graduated with honors.
High school with honors.
Don't take my word I short to you.
College with honors.
My oldest daughter get ready to get a doctorate degree at
Nova Southeast University.
She has a master's at Nova.
She got a bachelor's at FAU.
She won the unamerican society award.
Maintain a 4.0 GPA when she attended FAU Florida Glendale
University and Boca Raton.
My youngest daughter graduated with honors from from
Fairview University, Florida and him.
My son graduated high school with honors.
20 years of a work for the Department of Homeland
Security.
You should see his uniform.
I told me if you do well in the Academy, I got you.
So it's incredible, man.
You, your wife and your kids, they're all in inspiration.
Thank you.
Not just to people like me, but to people that come from
the communities that you come come from.
And I hope that I hope that they're paying attention and
thank you again.
I really appreciate it.
I'll make sure I link that I'll link your books below.
How can people get in contact with you if they want to
reach out if they want to reach out to me?
I'm actually on social media, you know, Facebook on the
Raymond Hicks Instagram under Raymond Hicks.
I'm still standing.
Of course, I don't use Twitter as much, you know,
you know, they can reach out to me.
All of my information is right there on Facebook.
Okay.
You know, all of my information is right there.
And and I just want to say to each and every one that's
out there listening, man, you know, you may go through
trials and tribulations in life, which is adversity, but
stand firm.
You know, sometimes God has to bring you to your lowest
point in your life, Danny, in order for you to see who
everybody is that you're surrounded by.
Because a lot of times when you're doing good, you don't
know who these people are.
And there's a possibility that those people can be so
innocent, jealous of you.
It could be it could be your family members, your friends,
associates, your co-workers, your acquaintance.
But in the end, you just got to know who you are.
So I tell each and every last one of these people that's
watching these podcasts.
Identify yourself.
Look in the mirror.
Know which way you're going in life.
You know, because that's what's important because one thing
is for sure.
When you can inspire somebody else, I know that God has
used me now.
My Sergeant told me, he said, Ray, if you had never gone
through what you went through, how could you be a author
of a book?
Right.
How could you've gone back to college?
How could you've gone back and got your doctorate degree
in theology?
How could you have done all these different things, man?
If you have never gone through what you went through.
So to be honest with you, I thank God for what I've gone
through.
And I say this and I shut up.
All the wars that I've won.
I won a life-saving award as a Deputy Sheriff.
When I was an inmate, Danny, I won a life-saving award.
I saved a gentleman's life while I was an inmate.
And was and was given the award by the warden of the
institution.
When I came home, when I worked at Cron Process Center in
Miami, I won a life-saving award.
When the gentleman hung himself.
But I was able to push him up to it with two other individuals
and saved his life.
Wow.
When I worked for the rail, I got a life-saving award.
A young Caucasian gentleman, 32 years of age, OD on heroin.
I began to perform CPR running.
Until paramedics arrived eight minutes later.
They gave him Norcan.
He set up like nothing ever happened to him.
Within about two minutes.
And guess what?
I won a life-saving award.
They promoted me to captain and I was named officer of the year.
But yet still my department that I worked for, the Brown Sheriff
Office, is going to tell me that I'm a criminal.
I ain't never been a criminal.
I never will be a criminal.
But one thing is for sure, I stand firm, you know, and I'm going
to continue to fight until me and my family totally vindicated.
I'm going to continue to fight until we're totally vindicated.
I have a second book that I'm working on and know what, when the movie
come out, because I truly believe that at some point, God going to put
me in contact with the right people.
And this, and I just hope and pray that my story, my family's story
to inspire other families to come together.
It will. I'm sure it's already doing that.
So man, if it's okay with you, I would love to pray for you and the platform
and everything else, man, because to me, that's what it's about.
Let's do it.
Father God, I thank you for this day.
This is truly the day that you have made.
Let us rejoice and be gladdened.
Father God, you say, well, two or three are gathering your name.
Father God, you have to be in the midst.
And Father God, I thank you for the authority that you have given us
in Christ Jesus.
And with that authority, I bind every demonic spirit, every
personality, every spiritual weakness and high places.
I really am helpless, powerless and operative and affected to come
against ahead in our lives in any way.
I pull down every stronghold and cast down every work and doctrines
from the enemy from our lives.
And Father God, I thank you, Father God, that you continue to raise
my brother Danny to the level that he'd never seen before.
Father God, I pray that you breast his wife, his offsprings, his
kids offsprings, Father God, as they get older.
Father God, don't forget about Steve, Father God.
I pray that you touch his hand, Father God, to operate these
equipments, Father God, to get your word out to those around the
world that need to hear, Father God, from you.
Not from me, Father God, from you.
We thank you, Father God.
We thank you for each and everything that you've done.
Lord, the thing that you will continue to do and we will give
you praise and honor and glory, we bless your name, Father God.
Lord, we ask these blessings, and they'll bless your name, Jesus,
and your name, Jesus.
Amen.
Amen.
Thank you so much, Raymond.
You're welcome. Thank you, Danny.
You're a good man.
Thank you, brother.
Good night, everybody.
