Hello world. Thank you for pressing play on episode number 61 of the Concrete podcast.
Today's episode is all about porn and our guest is Maria Aline. Maria is a public speaker, author,
and also the head of a youth organization called Changing Attitudes. As an expert on issues concerning
pornography and sex buying, she's given more than 400 public talks, including a TED talk.
She's met with over 500 people in prostitution, as well as thousands of sex offenders who have
ended up in prisons. By inspiring more of a public conversation about porn,
she's challenging old beliefs and myths by replacing them with facts, science, and real life
stories. So without further ado, I hope you enjoy this super informative and fun chat with Maria Aline.
Cool. It's good to finally talk to you. You too.
Are you in Stockholm or where are you? Yeah, I'm kind of in Stockholm. I mean,
it's a town called Uppsala. Okay. It's close to Stockholm, but it's not Stockholm, but it's very,
yeah, very close. Okay. I just managed to get back from, I was in LA when kind of, yeah,
like I got back from LA a week before the corona virus hit, basically. Yeah. So I just managed to
get back home. Sweden's dealing with this thing way different than the rest of the world is.
How's that? What is that like? Actually, it's, I think, you know, there's a lot of headlines and,
you know, stuff being said and written, but it's really, I would say it's handled quite well here.
I mean, because the thing is that if the Swedish government tells the Swedish people that you need
to do this and this, people are actually going to do it. So it's, I mean, when the Swedish government
gives the recommendation, it's not like something people don't care about, like they really listen.
So it's basically like, you know, having a law, you know, for it. So people actually listen. So I
think, yeah. People trust the government over there more than they do here. Yes. That's exactly
what it is. Yes, for sure. And I'm actually Norwegian. So I feel like I can be like objective
and like, see, yeah, if it's working or not. But I actually think Sweden's doing quite a good job.
Yeah. Yeah, it's, it's, I've read a few things about it. And it seems like some of the stuff they
have or some of the rules at least that they have in place are really similar to what we have here.
I'm in Florida, by the way. And Florida, I mean, they have a lot of strict, like legal restrictions
that you're supposed to follow, but most people aren't really following them. And it sounds almost
like in a way, Sweden's rules are probably just as effective as what's going on where I am right now.
It's just people here are just pushing it way harder than they should be.
Right. Right. And here it's not really necessary to push it that hard because like the prime minister
says something, everyone is like, okay. Yeah. Yes. So yeah, you're right. So you're in Florida.
Yeah. Yeah. Florida. Yep. I was so jealous. It's very different from your part of the world.
Yeah. Extremely different. No, today is like so just gray. It's almost like purple. Like it's so gray.
I mean, yeah, I'm like, I need some sun. So I've listened to a couple of your,
a couple of your talks, your TED talk, by the way, I have to ask you how the hell you were able
to explain the meaning of ask to mouth to an auditorium full of professional people like that.
I would actually say that's like, that's like years of like experience.
Okay. I have to give credit to the years of experience because I'm not really like,
I'm not bothered by it. You know, right. No, but it just, it takes a lot full to me.
But yeah, but I mean, obviously like you need some poker face going on for sure. But it's like,
I don't really, I don't really, I don't know. I don't think like, what's the big deal? Like it's,
we got to talk about it, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You said that you have,
you've interviewed a lot of porn performers and people in the industry. Basically, the thought
that I was trying to get across was that a lot of famous porn stars or widely known
porn performers come from really challenging backgrounds and really rough childhoods like
stripping or being a porn star can bring in a lot of money. And it seems like a really appetizing
thing and a really obvious solution to get out of those terrible situations as a child
because you can make a lot of money doing those things. Right. Yeah. Have you noticed anything
like that? Have you noticed similar backgrounds to people you've talked to? Yeah, for sure.
And I kind of like before I went in and did, started doing interviews with people in porn,
I was kind of, I was kind of like thinking back to the people I met in, in classic prostitution.
And still, like even though like I've worked with this issue for years, I was still actually
expecting a higher standard when it came to the people in porn, like in terms of their living
conditions and in terms of the money they were making and just like, yeah, I was just expecting
more glam, I guess, more glam or money, more Hollywood, more red carpets. But it's, I would say
obviously there are people making a lot of money in porn for sure. But the majority,
they won't even last for a year. So it will be like a quick in and out and the money won't be
that much really to the majority. And when it comes to the challenging backgrounds, I would say,
yeah, I do agree to some extent that it is, unfortunately, that's like, because even I was
like, oh, I want to be wrong, you know, I don't want to have this, this like this is what I think
I'm going to meet, you know, and then everything is just going to take my boxes. So I was like, prove
me wrong. But obviously, I have heard, you know, some horror stories when it comes to people in
porn, why they entered their childhood, growing up in poverty, growing up in perhaps homelessness,
being, you know, victims of abuse, physical, sexual, you know, foster care, like all of these
factors are, yeah, they are irrelevant. And yeah, for sure. And I would also say like one of the
perhaps like key factors when it comes to entering porn or prostitution or, you know, whatever,
is the sexual abuse, like the trauma, the undelivered trauma. So that is a key factor to
joining porn, I think. And the trauma, sorry, I just do you hear my dog in the background?
Yeah, I hear him. I think it's hilarious. What kind of dog is it?
It's a Cavalier. We have to edit this so much. No, we'll leave it in. You should get you should
put him in the chair right behind you. We could see him. I actually gave him like, I gave him
a talk. I was like, dude, buddy, please just be quiet. Yeah, but no, it seems like porn performers
are treated like at least by the agents or the producers in the industry as just like sex objects
with an expiration date and the expiration date is really soon. Right, right. I mean, yes, that's,
I've heard producers say that actually talking about it as as to like bringing in fresh meat.
You know, they want to offer something new to the consumer. And once the consumer is kind of
fed up with that, then, you know, she or he is gone. And then, you know, off to the next one.
So yes, it is, it seems to be, you know, quite a, you know, quick in and out for, for most people.
Yeah. Is there, is that industry big in Sweden? Or was that mainly in LA where you were doing all
that research? Yeah, that was mainly in LA and in Vegas. Yeah. LA and Vegas. Okay. But it exists
in Sweden for sure, but not to that extent at all. I think like we have more, more porn production
here than people are aware of, but still compared to what you guys have in the US, like it's nothing.
Yeah. LA is such a crazy place. Yeah, it is. I think we all could agree on that. But there's
just something like it's so, I don't know if it's like cheesy, but I absolutely love LA. Like it's
just so I adore it. Yes, I do. And my favorite part actually is downtown and everyone keeps
telling me like, oh, you can't be there. It's dangerous. And I'm like, but it's where the,
I think most of authentic people are, you know, because it's so much homelessness and so many
people with, you know, difficulties, but to like sit down and have a conversation with
one of them. It's like, to me, that's like the most rewarding. Yeah. My best memories from LA
are from like conversations downtown. Really? Yes. For sure. Yes. I would not say that.
The amount of homeless people there is absurd. It's absurd. It's like nothing else. It's like
nowhere else. Nowhere else. Yeah, you're right. And to me, I get so like, I know it's a bit perhaps,
I don't know, naive, you could call it. But to me, I'm like, how is this not fixable?
You know, it's not like it's a million people in homelessness. Like it's still an amount of people
that, you know, it should be possible to handle this, to offer housing and provide support. Yeah.
Yeah, especially during something like the coronavirus, it's got to make it so much worse.
From your research, how does porn today have an effect on society in general?
I would say porn really kind of leaks into different parts of society today. It obviously
affects kids and youth when it comes to the early exposure. So many kids and youth are exposed to
porn at such a young age, but they haven't even had a conversation about sex and relationships
with any adults yet. So porn really beats the adults to it when it comes to that.
So and I mean, obviously it's affecting relationships, you know, when it comes to like
expectations and also like the stories that I've heard from especially young people explaining to
me that like, oh, you know, I compare myself to what I see important and I think I need to do this
and I need to do that. And, you know, I'm supposed to look like this or that and my partner isn't
hot enough or isn't, you know, you know, doing this or this. And so it's a lot of pressure, I think,
on many young people today since porn is currently, I would say the one and only player
right now really setting the standards for our sexuality and for our, you know, expectations
of ourselves and each other. Do you talk to parents at all and ask them how they deal with it and
how are they dealing with it in a way that is either effective or not? Yeah, yeah, I do.
Um, this is like, this is interesting because I always see that because whenever, let's say,
I've been to a school, so I've talked to the students all day and then during the night,
I get to meet the parents. And it's so interesting because when I'm in a classroom talking to
students, they will be totally open and honest and they will share and they will be ready to
talk about it as if it's actually affecting them, they will share their own experiences.
However, when I'm meeting a more adult group, I always have to talk about kids and youth.
You know, if I'm going to go into talking about like grown-ups consuming porn, that's more
sensitive to them. I find that, um, I find that kids and youth are more brave when it
comes to talking about this, but I wouldn't, I wouldn't count the adults out for sure not.
I mean, I've had so many good meetings and, um, just like, yeah, meeting adults who are very much
on fire for talking about this. But the thing is, I think they, they want to talk about it
if they are in fact, you know, aware of the fact that kids are actually, you know, consuming porn,
but they don't know how to do it. So it's, and to many, I think it's a fear when it comes to,
oh, you know, my child is only eight or nine or 10. I don't want to wake a sleeping bear, you know?
So I'm like not saying anything. And then when the kid is like 16, 17, I'm like, um,
have you heard of, um, condoms? You know, so it's just like the gap is just like too massive.
But I do think parents want to do this for sure. But I do also think we need to equip parents and
we need to give them our facts and tools and just like the confidence to talk about this.
What do you tell them? Like how do you tell parents to talk to their kids about porn? Say
you have, I don't know how old, how, how early kids are getting access to it, but I know kids are
getting iPhones, you know, before the age of 10 probably. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I was at most
of the kids and youth that I've spoken to and, you know, done interviews with as well has been
um, six, between six and nine has been like the average age of the first exposure. That's what
I've been told. But obviously it's not really, it's not that interesting when you're eight,
you know, but once you get puberty, then obviously it's going to be more interesting. So 12 is like
the average age for guys to watch porn and a bit under 14 seem to be the average age for girls.
And so, so what do you tell the parents? What kind of advice do you give them?
Okay, so I would tell you, um, I would tell you to actually just do it. Like I would say just,
just do it. Like you actually don't need to feel like you have to know everything and have,
even though like obviously having facts and being, you know, knowledgeable in this area is
obviously going to help you. But if you do not know anything about it, just like raise the
topic, ask questions. And I will also say like be, be smart about it. Like put on your poker face
and perhaps ask a question, not directly to your kid about your kid, but perhaps ask a question
about that kid's, um, you know, friends and classmates and be like, you know, oh, you know,
do you know if you have any friends who have perhaps seen anything online that was a bit,
you know, did you see anything you kind of reacted to? And I would also like not exclude
like the fun parts online, you know, like to not be all, oh, you know, be so careful and everything
is bad, you know, but to really like highlight the good stuff as well to also say to a kid that,
you know, can we just sit down for an hour and you could show me like, what do you do online?
So what's like your favorite thing that you've ever seen? What's the most funny thing you've ever
seen? Um, what have you seen anything that scared you? Have you seen anything that, you know, you
lost sleep over to kind of like include all of the, uh, the good and the bad really. And if the kid
is really young, just kind of make a conversation about like online activities, social media,
um, just being aware, like this is also content you could come across.
A hard thing is that kids, young kids are always looking for thrills and just find the craziest
thing they've ever seen online. Yeah. And the bad part about the porn industry, I mean, well,
it's like any entertainment industry really, is that entertainment is always trying to push
the envelope and push it to the next level and come up with like the next thing that people are
going to be like, what the fuck? And then there's, and there's going to be some freaks out there,
some crazy psychos that like, oh yeah, they're really into it and then enjoy it. I mean, it's
all, it all depends on their psychology. Yeah. Absolutely. But that's the thing that they're
never going to stop pushing the envelope on it and they're never going to just keep evolving it.
Right. Right. And I mean, the shock factor obviously is triggering, like you're saying. And
that has to do with like how the brain works because the brain is going to be,
you know, shocked when it sees something new and something exciting and even something that
will make you aroused. Like all of those components makes for a perfect, you know, dish.
So really, I would say to also as a parent to be aware of the fact that your kid, if your kid,
let's say you have a 13 year old who you probably like, you know, that this person is sort of this
child is addicted to pornography or like it's consuming it a lot. I would say to that parent,
like be really careful about like not judging that kid because, you know, that brain works perfectly,
you know, because that brain responds to what is being presented online on these major porn sites.
And if you get addicted, that is like, that's a normal reaction to watching porn a lot,
you know, it's not, you're not strange. You don't have a bad character or, you know, a lack of morals,
you know, like you're actually normal. So to kind of, yeah, be aware of when it comes to
shaming and like guilt tripping. I would say avoid that as much as you can because,
and you know, because we got to remember like the porn industry, it's not run and it's not set up.
And it's not like, it's, I mean, it's not being produced by kids, right? Right. Like it's being
produced by adults. So we are the one who needs to then carry that responsibility.
That study that was done by the, by Cambridge, there was a couple of researchers from Cambridge
where they studied the brain activity between drug addicts and people who were porn addicts.
And they compared, they compared them to healthy volunteers, whatever. And they noticed that there
was the three regions in the brain that like lit up and it was almost identical between the drug
addicts and the porn addicts. It affected them the same way. It could be treated as an addiction.
And the crazy part about it was they even went deeper to find out why don't humans stop doing
something when they know that it's either physically or psychologically damaging to them.
And the part about like how it's not, you're doing something despite the fact that you,
like you don't even like it. Yeah. Yeah. Compulsive behavior. Like it was just like
smoking cigarettes or overeating or snorting Coke or any of those things. You know that
they're terrible for you and they could kill you, but you still do it anyways.
And that speaks so much to how, like how this material would, like how it actually affects
the brain, like how, how similar to drugs it really is. Because the brain can't really tell
the difference. Cause I mean, we have one reward system. That's all we got, you know? So that reward
system can be hijacked by basically anything that will give you pleasure. But then obviously,
you know, we are going to be like more, we're going to experience more, you know, a more,
you know, a greater high, more kicks, we're going to get more kicks out of watching porn
than, you know, taking walks or whatever, you know, like it's, and the same with coaking,
you know, that's going to be more effective when it comes to getting you hooked than,
let's say other more, you know, yeah, weed or whatever. So yeah.
And another thing to consider is, you know, they're swiping through Tinder and they're not
thinking clearly because they want to find sex or they're super horny and they want to get with
somebody who they may not like or they may not, they may not love, they may not even like them,
but they think they're hot because they're super horny and they're not thinking clearly because
of that. So maybe they should just watch some porn and get it out of their system. Right.
That's another thing to consider. Yeah, sure. That's why a lot of people could end up in
relationships with, in relationships with people they don't like or they don't love.
What? Because, because, because they're both, they both just love sex and they both provide
that reward for each other, but they may not love each other. They just ended up in that
situation because it was convenient for both of them. Right. Right. Okay. Yeah. Cause you don't,
you don't really think clearly when you're, when you're, when you have that energy and you're like
super, all you're thinking about is sex. I mean, that happens to everybody. So when you do that,
you don't think rationally. Right. And you end up in those relationships like that and you realize
20 years down the road, fuck, we don't even like each other. Right. We just like to fuck. Right.
Right. Does that make sense? Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. So, so instead of
Johnny going out on a hundred, a hundred, a hundred Tinder dates in a year and risk,
risking catching an STD, instead he just wants to watch some porn and get it out of a system.
Sure. It's a, it's another thing to consider. I mean, yeah, sure. I haven't heard that, you know,
a lot. Um, then I would say to Johnny, like, dude, there are more options than, you know,
a careless relationship for 20 years or porn. Like, right. Yeah. You have some other things you
can choose between as well. It's not your only two options. Yeah. Yeah. If I'm going to like be,
you know, um, let me be tough on you then and say, like,
is it because if that's the cure to unhealthy relationship, if that, if the cure is porn,
you know, I mean, wouldn't then the porn problem be fixed once you have a good relationship?
Or, you know, are there no people in good relationships consuming porn?
You'd want to connect with them on more levels than sex. Yeah. Yeah.
And a lot of people, especially kids, teenagers, people in their, in their, in their 20s,
they're not thinking like that. They're just thinking with that one part of their brain.
And if you could sort of get that out of the way, it changes your thinking.
You believe that?
Yeah. A hundred percent. I believe that. Yeah. Uh-huh. Okay. Explain that one more time. Like,
what, what are you actually saying? What are you thinking that porn can kind of cure?
I don't think it's necessarily porn itself that can cure that.
But what I'm saying is people that you think are hot and you think you like because you're
being blinded by horniness or whatever you want to call it. Instead, you just watch some porn
and you masturbate and instantly that feeling is gone. Right. And now you're like, what was I
thinking? Why would I, I don't even like this person. Right. Like, I just wanted to have
sex. I wanted to get that out of my system. Yeah. I think a lot of people deal with that problem.
Yeah. For sure. Like, I hear that all the time. And not saying porn is the answer. I'm not,
definitely not saying porn is the answer, but it's obviously, it's the, it's the easiest solution.
Right. It's the most obvious thing to go to. It's so available to you. Yeah. And like,
there are different factors to that. Like one, for sure, that can be true. Uh, the other, I would
say to just consider is to also like, um, again, like, are those two, the only two options that
you have, you know, are there other ways to kind of enhance your life and to like, use your, use
your imagination. Yeah. Or just like, read a book. Like, there are other things we can do,
but also there's a fact of like, cause that has to be considered as well. Obviously,
um, if what we were saying, uh, earlier about, um, you know, the backgrounds when it comes to
people in porn, if that in fact is the case, like, is that fair to like have a group of people
that we can kind of like take our urges out on? You know what I mean? Explain that one more time.
So instead of me going out and having, you know, sex with a hundred different people via Tinder,
I'm going to go online and, you know, jerk off to some porn. But then what I'm saying is that,
is that fair to people in porn to like, have that, you know, have a group of people that you're
like, it's fine. If you're important, you know, you can be important for my sake, you know?
Yeah, I understand what you're saying. Are we kind of ready? Like, do we want to like sacrifice
this group of people? Since we do know the backgrounds they come from, like, are we like,
okay with, you know what I mean? Using them for our own, you know, um, yeah, salvation, Tinder.
Yeah, I know, I know what you mean. But it's kind of like, that's the way society works,
and it's the way the world works. Those people are there because they're desperate. I feel like
people become porn stars because they're desperate in a situation where they,
they finally make that leap. Right. Not just porn stars. Strippers are prostitutes. Right.
They're desperate for something. And the most obvious way to get independence
and to get financial success at that moment would be porn or prostitution or dancing at a strip club.
Right. Um, you know, the, obviously there's a lot of long term,
a long term, long term negative effects to it. And it comes with that, you know, people,
you're gonna have kids jerking off to your videos for years. And your kids, when you have kids and
they go to high school, they're gonna, or middle school, you're gonna have all their friends asking
you about their, your mom and why they're all watching your mom have sex on their iPhones.
So, you know, I don't think they think about that. They don't think about that in the moment,
right? In that moment, they're desperate for money or they're desperate for independence.
And that's the answer. That's the easiest answer. That's also like interesting because I, you know,
we do have, I would say like, we, we do have somewhat of, you know, a porn culture in a way,
like it's like we were saying earlier, like it's leaking into different parts of society,
it's leaking into media advertisement, the fitness industry, like all of that.
And so I find it, I find it just like interesting, like we do have this culture
where, you know, some people are gonna be pushed into the porn industry or into other types of
prostitution or, you know, and, but once they're in it, like we're gonna judge them, you know what
I mean? Then we're gonna be like, ooh, like you're gonna be online forever. Like obviously,
you're gonna be online forever. And, but I'm like, what I'm trying to say is that
the society kind of opened that door. But once they entered, we're, you know, we're willing to
use porn, but we're also judging the people in porn, right? You know, so that's kind of what I,
I think it's so important because I do, that's what I've heard so many people that I've talked
to in the industry say that, like this girl actually told me, she was like, you're actually the first
one to ask me to, to talk about this, because I just read tweets and, you know, whatever about me,
but no way, nobody ever comes to me and actually ask these questions. And she was really like
explaining to me how she was really feeling judged really by society. But it's also the same
society that will go behind closed doors and watch her. You know what I mean? So when I'm
talking about porn, I'm very much talking about it from a standpoint of US and I'm on their side.
Yeah. You know, like, yeah, totally. Yeah. So I'm like looking to like, how did you end up here?
Like, but again, I'm also, I think it's like, we got to take it one step further and not just look at
how, why and how people ended up in porn, but also to see like, who are, you know, who are the
consumers, what is happening in society, what kind of attitudes are we kind of adapting from using
aggressive porn and all of that? So it's really, we got to have all the, all the pieces.
There's a lot of porn performers, especially in LA, I think, that have kind of ascended out of
porn and they've kind of transitioned to like social media stars and become more accepted.
I think, yeah, you're totally right. People look down on a porn star or like, oh yeah,
I could watch them on my phone, but I would never date one. Exactly. They've been with, look how many
dudes she's been in gang bangs and all this other stuff. Yeah. But what they don't consider is that
probably any guy or girl in any nightclub in LA has probably been with 10 times more people
that were not, were not tested for STDs prior to having sex with them. Right. But it's the
conception of the fact that you can see it. You can literally watch it happening. And to me, that
is like, that is kind of, that's kind of like categorizing women into two groups. Like one is the,
she's the, she's the wifey material, you know, like she's the girl you can date and bring home to
your mom. Right. There is this girl in porn and you're like, no, no, no, she's a slut. But still,
again, as I'm saying, behind closed doors, you're still going to watch her. You know, right, right.
Oh, like that's, that's being a hypocrite. Totally. Yeah. Getting back to what I was talking about,
girls that have like reached, gotten out of porn, like they did it for so long and became so
successful. They kind of like piqued interest of people like, oh, I have an Instagram or I have a
Twitter, you can follow me on my own platforms. And they've kind of like become social media
stars. And, and they make those, those only fans accounts. They kind of control everything.
That's kind of like the way media, the media industry is going, I think anyways, because
people who are creating, are creating their own content now and being like, they own their own
stuff and they're able to monetize it their own way. Instead of being a slave to some porn
producer or porn agent, that's just sending them across the country to go live in some
producer's house for a week, you know, while they have to shoot 10 porn videos.
Yeah. For sure. I think that's, that's another, you know, that's a direction we're, we're headed,
for sure. But I wouldn't count out the, the shitty producers and the amount of people that
will still be attracted to that. Because you're still going to have people who are not, you know,
they're not able or they're not, you know, they're in a desperate situation. They don't have time for
Instagram, you know what I mean? So it's like, to many people, it's actually about survival
as well. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, yeah, we're going to see, we're going to see, I think we're
going to see, to some extent, we're going to see that happening for sure, more and more. Yeah.
And when you talk about aggression, what, what do you mean when you talk about aggression
or like violence in porn, do you think that's something that is like ramping up or getting
more prominent? I mean, we, I mean, if we're going to look at the studies that we have,
we've kind of seen that trend for years, you know, it's not really,
you know, aggression important is not that new. I wouldn't say that.
But yes, I mean, of course, it's going to be like, I've talked to producers explaining to me
that they actually, they get bored is one guy was like, yeah, like, of course, we're going to,
you know, look at like how extreme can we make it? Because like, it's not only the consumer that
gets bored, we get bored as well. So yeah, but like, when it comes to aggression in porn,
it's a thing. And it's very like, going back 15 years, the aggressive porn would have been like
the, the strange porn, like the, you know, like the dark web porn kind of, but now that is mainstream.
So I would say like that has kind of shifted, like what has shifted is, it's just the acceptance
of aggression in porn. And the fact that now we don't even think of slapping someone or pulling
someone's hair as aggression, really, you know, that's just part of porn. So like, you know,
the boundaries are constantly being pushed, but they're also constantly being. Yeah.
Yeah, there's almost no boundaries anymore. It's like blurred lines in between both.
For sure. Yeah. I think there was a quote from a porn producer saying that the only thing left
to do to women in porn now is just, you know, killing them. Like that's, we've done it all.
Yeah. And there are porn on that too. You know, snuff porn, that's a thing too.
Yeah, what is it? What is it? Wasps? Wasp after they mate, the female eats the male?
That's next for humans. Yeah, I guess. Like the spider. Oh, the spider. Yeah, that's what it is.
Yes. The widow. Yeah.
I mean, if it's one thing, if it was, I mean, porn is legal. Yeah. There's a lot of drugs
that people use because they're hard to get and they're illegal. And it becomes more of a desirable
thing because it's harder to get. Porn's not hard to get. Everybody can get it. So it's interesting
why there's still such a problem with people being addicted to it. But there's no real,
there's no real alternative. There's nothing else like it that you could say is healthy.
Right. Or isn't bad for you psychologically. Right. Exactly. And that's, you know, I would say
the whole existence of porn to the amount of, yeah, that we do see today, I would say that is
really a slap in the face to any country lacking sex education. Because what we do see in studies
also is that kids and youth tend to look for porn when in fact what they're looking for is facts.
They want sex education. So that's a signal to all of us to step it up when it comes to
sex education because the situation we're dealing with now is that we've gotten,
sex education is really like this. It's not really, it's not the same. If I look at Sweden,
it's like we have some parts of Sweden who is doing a really good job and then you have other
parts who aren't even talking about condoms. So, you know what I mean? It's very Russian-relate
when it comes to sex education. And I think that really leaves kids and youth alone with porn as
the only sex educator. So that's when we got to ask ourselves, okay, so if this is our sex
educator, if this is our teacher, what kind of, what mission does this teacher have? You know,
what's the purpose? What curriculum is this teacher using and so on? So, yeah. The problem is
there is no goals or anything. It's all about just more and more money for them.
Exactly. Their goal is not to provide kids and youth great sex education. That is not what
most porn producers are about. You know, they're about the money, as you're saying.
And another thing to consider is that a lot of young people, probably mostly young girls,
look up to people like Pam Anderson or Carmen Electra as like, oh, look at them now. They're
celebrities, right? Like, they're big shots now. They're not porn stars anymore. So,
I could just be a porn star for a few years and then I could have the goal of being like Pam
Anderson one day. Yeah, for sure. And that also, I mean, that also, I think, speaks to where we're
at today when it comes to the normalization of porn because it really is so, you know,
right next to mainstream media. I think it used to be more separated, you know, but now it really
is transitioning from porn to mainstream media, you know, it's not that hard.
So, what's the answer to this, Maria? You tell me. What is the answer? What is the answer?
I'm, as I'm saying in my TEDx talk as well, I'm really all about like education and conversation.
I think that is just key. Like, if we get to have a conversation and be critical and really,
like, look at this from a fact point of view, I would say that is going to bring some solution
to this because I do think, I do think like getting people aware will then enhance your ability to
also make an informed decision. So, I mean, I'm not gonna, and I can't do that. I can go into
your bedroom and be like, I'm gonna stand here and watch and make sure you don't use some porn,
you know, and I'm gonna be all night. Like, I can't do that. So, and I don't want to do that. So,
what I can do is I can provide you with the facts and then it's up to you. Do you want to continue
to use porn? Then fine, go ahead. Or do you want to like consider these facts and, you know, make
an informed decision? But yeah, so I think facts and education is key. And to really like bridge
the gap between the adults, like how, you know, parents are thinking about this, they perhaps,
some are very aware and some are like, no, my kid is 15 and he or she has never even like kissed
someone, you know, like the gap is perhaps too big sometimes to kind of bridge that.
And then the sex education in school need to, you know, we need to step that up for sure.
And then I would say to, and I'm doing that and I want to do that more to actually connect with
people in the industry to actually see what are the pull factors and what are the actual
the backgrounds and what are the, you know, the reality of porn.
Yeah, I think that, yeah, the younger years, the hardwiring years, I think are the most important
years too. And it's big, you know, a big part of the responsibility has to go to the parents on it
too, because a lot of parents, they just are lazy. Or they don't, if it makes them uncomfortable,
they're going to resort to being lazy and they're just not going to do anything about it.
Right. And I mean, I think we can kind of like, I can identify with that, like if something isn't
comfortable, obviously it's going to, like my brain wants to opt out of that task or whatever,
you know? But yeah, so I mean, this is going to take an effort from all of us for sure.
But I actually think like equipping parents with facts and getting them to really understand
like, okay, so first my kid is going to see porn, maybe not tomorrow, but perhaps a year,
like that is going to happen to like, you know, that reality check of it. And then also to
equip parents to, like you're saying, like to dare to have that conversation.
Yeah. That is key.
What do you have planned in the future after this sort of pandemic thing clears out? What
have you been doing? What's your schedule like? What do you, what does your day consist of?
Right. Which pandemic? Porn or corona?
Oh, both. I don't know. I mean, obviously you said,
be at a beach. Yeah. Sorry. You were living in LA, right?
I'm actually, I'm kind of going back and forth between Sweden, LA and actually Thailand.
Okay. Yes. I've spent my winters in Thailand for the last maybe five years or so for five years.
Really? Yes. Wow. What have you seen in Thailand?
Yeah. Although it's been like mainly like, I'm combining it like work like from,
from afar, like distance work and then vacation, but obviously Thailand is very, you know, with
brothels. It's very extensive. And so you'll see, yeah, you'll see sex buyers all over
when it comes to like in these specific brothel areas. And they won't be all,
I mean, yeah, you're going to see different ages and whatever, but it's obviously there's a lot of
like tourists, but there's also a lot of like Thai men really buying sex from women in prostitution
in Thailand. Thailand's a lot like Vegas in a way, right?
Right. When it comes to like sex work and prostitution, Thailand is very similar to Las
Vegas. Is that right? For sure. Yes. For sure. Is you think that's mainly because of the tourism
there? I mean, it absolutely has something to do with it. Absolutely. Like, yeah, like hundreds
of thousands of people will go to Thailand, even just from Sweden every year to, to, you know, do
vacation. So that obviously affects the, the amount of brothels available. But as I was saying,
it's also important to know that it is a lot of Thai men as well who are actually visiting
these brothels. And it's the same. You see the same in India. It's not only tourists. It's really
a lot of Indian men as well going to brothels. So yeah, so it's, it's a, it's a domestic problem
as well as an international problem. And are you, so are you talking to people there like
compared to people in the different places you go to? Have you, you haven't talked to anybody in
Thailand? Not in Thailand actually. I've kind of stayed clear because I'm just like, I need some
vacation from all of them. Yeah. So no, but I've met throughout these years that I've worked with
this issue. I met maybe, yeah, if I'm not going to exaggerate, maybe I met like 400 people in
prostitution over the years. Wow. Men and women and transgender people. And I've met sex buyers and
people convicted of sex offending, you know, crimes and, um, in various countries in Austria,
Germany, Sweden, Norway. Yeah. The list goes on. And yeah. And so, yeah. So what would I do after?
So you interviewed, you interviewed like sex offenders that were in prisons?
Yeah. Yes. Not, not, not officially interviewing, but I've done volunteer work for years.
Okay. Did you ever actually have conversations with any of them or?
Yeah. That's, that's what you do when you do the work. So yes. I mean, I've had hundreds of
conversations, uh, with people convicted of the most, you know, awful things you can't, I mean,
you can't even imagine. And I rarely read their files or anything. I was very like,
yeah, just to kind of meet the person. You know what I mean? Instead of the offender.
But they would, they would tell me, uh, a lot of them would tell me and would share what their
conviction was for. And some wouldn't. Um, but yeah, there are some pretty, um, tough stories.
And it's also, I mean, I would really say, because that also hit me when I've, because I did like
years of, uh, volunteer work in, um, in different, uh, prostitution, like red light areas and meeting
people in prostitution, and then exchanging that for prison work. What I really saw, and it kind
of shook me. Like what I really saw was the similarities to when it comes to the background
stories. And you kind of saw like, okay, like none of you grew up the way you deserve to grow up,
you know, and then things happen. And, you know, your life took a turn and you made bad choices.
And yeah, I'm not excusing anything because it's so awful, uh, the things that, that, you know,
uh, a sex offender does. Obviously it's, it's horrible. But I would also say that I have also,
I've had some really great experiences when it comes to meeting them because I've really seen
the person behind it. Again, not to excuse anything, but just to kind of add to it, um,
the, the, the childhood trauma and the things that has happened to, to a lot of people.
Yeah. I think the, the prison term for the sex offenders is, I think everybody in prison just
calls them chomos, which is short for child molesters. So I think if you're in there for a
sex crime, you're automatically a child molester. Is that, was that what you noticed? It was most
of it with like underage type stuff? I mean, not, I would say that too, of course. Um, it would be
anything. It would be anything from rape to, uh, cause in Sweden, um, you combined, if you are
convicted of a, um, let's say you have beaten up your partner, then you will be put in the same
prison as someone who has committed a rape. Okay. So it would be anything on that spectra.
Really. Yeah. Yeah. How long have you lived in Sweden again?
Since, okay. Let's see how long have I been? I'm 13 years, I think, going on 14, I think. Yeah.
Okay. Cause that, that part of the world, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, they're way more
open sexually than people in America. Most of America is made up of people who are very insecure,
I think it's actually compared to that part of the world. I think you're doing a great job.
Thank you. I appreciate it. What's the future of your company? And what kind of planes do you
guys have for the next year, next few years? Um, I'm really, as I said, I'm so in love with LA,
so I'm like, I have to be there. Um, wow, that's so funny. Is that the only part of the United
States you've been to? No, I've been to DC. Okay. And Vegas. DC, Vegas, LA. LA. Okay. So I need to,
I need to do a road trip, I feel. Yeah. Yes. Definitely do a road trip. Yeah. A coastal road
trip. I mean, obviously through the middle of the country, you'll see some really interesting
shit too. Right. But along the, like the East Coast, there's some, there's some amazing places on the
East Coast, including Florida, Miami. Miami's a place you have to go to. I have to go to. It's
like another country. It is. I feel like it's like, there's so many countries within the U.S.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Yeah. But when you're in Miami, you honestly feel like you're on another
continent. It feels so isolated from anything else. Well, I guess compared to Florida because
nothing else in Florida is like Miami. Right. I have to go. But yeah, LA, I'm not a big fan of LA.
I'm not really a big fan of LA. I love San Diego. I love like up North California. But LA just seems
like so much traffic, you know, so much like the people are so superficial and fake there. I feel
like not everybody, but for the most part. I think I've been so lucky because that's everybody keeps
telling me that like whenever I go there, it's just like everybody's like, Oh, be aware, like,
you know, me. And I'm like, I haven't seen that yet. I'm really surprised. I don't know. But it's
yeah, I'm lucky. Everybody has been so genuine and yes, I've made friends like real friends and
yes, for sure. They'll expose themselves for who they really are. It's coming. You know when that
happens. Yeah, no, I think like we really want to go towards like being more. Yeah, once Corona
is gone, we could be more present, I think in LA. I really want to study in the US
some more. I'd love to study perhaps, I don't know, I've looked into studying law at UCLA. I've
looked into some programs at Harvard, but that's I wouldn't want to be in Boston. So I had to,
I, you know, I have to look at some programs that they have that you can do
from home basically, like you don't have to be on campus all the time. Yeah. So I'm like looking
into different studying options and to see. Yeah, I got a good feeling about the future. I know,
I think it's gonna, you know, they're gonna happen. So and I see like when it comes to this
this year, really see like people are opening up, like people are talking about it more and more and
just checking my DMs every day. I'm like, oh, okay, there's this guy from Iran or there's this guy
from Saudi Arabia or there's this girl from Australia. You know what I mean? It's like all
over. So it's so, I think people are hungry for a conversation on porn. Yeah, I can definitely
see that. Well, that's amazing. That's super interesting. What about you? What about me?
Yes. In regards to what? After Corona, what's happening? After Corona, I'll actually be able
to have more people in our studio doing these podcasts face to face. I got, we got a few people
locally that we've had coming in. But for the most part, it's just been these Skype interviews.
Right. With people on, you know, on remote locations. And additionally, we shoot a lot of
documentary type stuff. So we do like a lot of traveling and filming weird shit around
the state and around the country. And production work has been close to non-existent for the past
few months. So, you know, right now, talking, I mean, talking to through computers is great,
especially when you have something, someone interesting, but there's nothing like that,
that one-on-one face-to-face interaction. For sure. I can imagine. Yes. Perseverance. Perseverance.
Absolutely. So people that are listening to this, how can they find you on social media and where
can they follow you and learn more about what you're doing? Yeah. So my name is Maria Aline,
which is A-H-L-I-N. So just switch those two and then you'll find me, Aline Maria,
A-H-L-I-N Maria. That's on Instagram. And then you can find changing attitudes on Instagram
and changing attitudes.co for our website with facts and stuff on porn and sex buying and all that.
And definitely watch the TED Talk. Yeah. Yes, do it.
you
