We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier
on Patreon, so feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going
to start doing bonus podcast episodes every week.
So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
In this episode of the concrete podcast, we talk to Brandon Bryant.
Brandon is a former MQ-1 Bravo predator sensor operator for the U.S. Air Force, who flew
armed predator drones over Iraq, Afghanistan, and Yemen.
He has since come forward with information from inside the U.S. military's secret drone
program, specifically on the issues of civilian deaths or collateral damage, as well as the
struggles of drone pilots with substance abuse and post-traumatic stress disorder.
The daily work of tracking and killing people as an operator took a psychological toll on
Brandon, and since he left, he's been struggling with the pressures of going public as a whistleblower.
The drone program still remains highly under wraps, even as the military continues to carry
out targeted killing campaigns around the world.
Begun by the George W. Bush administration but massively expanded and normalized under
Barack Obama, air wars waged by drone and conventional aircraft now continue in Libya,
Syria, Iraq, Somalia, Afghanistan, and Yemen.
Without further ado, please welcome Brandon Bryant.
Thanks again for doing this, man.
Super stoked to talk to you.
Yeah, no worries.
I'm honored that you've chosen my story to be interested in.
When I first saw your story online, I never could have imagined what it would be like
actually controlling some of these predator drones that you flew.
So for people out there who don't actually know your story, let's give you like sort of an
introduction for this podcast.
So you flew, you operated predator drones for the U.S.
Air Force from 2006 to 2000, from 2006 to 2011, right?
Correct.
Okay.
Um, and now you're essentially a whistleblower on the program because you
let me, let me put it this way.
Let me just ask you this.
What is the problem with the United States using drones for warfare?
I'll just reference sunsues in the sun soon, the art of war.
He says that a protracted warfare is not beneficial to the state.
And, uh, he says that our warfare is evil inherently.
But if you have to do it, here's how you do it to win.
And we're using drones not to win, but to bring devastation and control over an area.
So in the art of war, in that philosophy, what we're doing with drones is inherently
evil because we're not using them to finish the war and win.
If we are, well, we're not even in a war.
Overseas contingency.
That's what they call it.
Um, my own personal reasons for doing it is that we are indiscriminately killing
human beings and celebrating it and then, uh, pretty much destroying, uh, whatever
moral fabric or moral law that we are, um, supposedly fighting for.
I don't think a lot of people understand that drone strikes
primarily kill civilians.
Is that right?
Um, it's not inherent.
Like it's not like they go like, Oh, this guy's walking his dog.
We're gonna fucking kill him.
No, it's not, it's not inherently that it's, it's more like, um, they're.
But by civilians, just as like a, as like a consequence of killing one person who lives
in a building, they're going to kill.
It's called, they call it collateral damage and it's a term that they use to, uh, marginalize
an individual human's life and just make them a tally mark.
Um, I saw a lot of, a lot of really bad crap while it, while I was in, and I've only
really talked about my own experiences and my own, my own sin and shame, but, um, they
would really like, if there was probably 15 people at a wedding and they were gonna, they
were there to strike too, the 15 people were collateral damage worth getting those two people.
So an example would be if some Rambo character whose job was to go overseas and go take out
a terrorist target and this guy is just going through an entire apartment building with
his, with his automatic weapons, just slaying every, every innocent bystander, all the women
and children on his way up to the top floor to find the terrorist, just murdering dozens
of people in this building before he actually gets the target.
This guy would be a war criminal.
This guy would be in prison somewhere.
Same like President Trump, just former President Trump, pardoned for Blackwater dudes for doing
that, right?
They went into, they were basically in downtown Baghdad and we're murdering people on the street.
And that is essentially what drones do, just in an impersonal type of way.
Yeah, it's a, it's a weird thing where if you just take us out of it, if you remove us from it,
it's this weird thing where it's like, now it's this bridge that we're able to cross.
In a sense, it's, um, you know, there's, I talk a lot about warrior culture and warrior
philosophy, um, because I grew, I grew up in a family of wrestlers, right?
So like, from the moment that I could pretty much walk, I was on or around the wrestling.
And in wrestling, you face your opponent, you know, you work hard, you train, you understand
your body and how you move and maybe study the enemy's movement so that you can beat them.
With drones, there's no facing your enemy.
There's just, you're basically taking people who are incapable of, of operating on that
level of physicality and giving them the ability to, um, glorify war in a way that
makes them feel like they're participating. I kind of feel like it's a lot like the QAnon
conspiracy crap where, um, people want to feel involved and, and like they're doing, um, something
for the greater good or they're, they're part of a, um, a movement, but really all it is is just
indiscriminate violence. Now the argument against this would be we're doing this to keep people safe
here in America, right? Right. Our, our boots off, off the ground. That's another one. What do you
say to that argument? I say that, uh, you, we devalue the people that are part of the warrior
class that dedicate themselves to sacrificing their life for a noble cause, right? Um, in the
spiritual world, um, of the warrior, it would, they would talk about how even if you are a noble
and good warrior and you're fighting an innoble cause, what you're doing is, is a sin. And so
we're taking people who, um, let's say, let's, let's compare, uh, drones to a sniper, right?
A sniper is in country. They're sitting there with their partner. They're monitoring. They're
sometimes sitting laying down for days at a time without moving, right? Takes a whole book
through concentration and skill, like years of training. Well, you're putting
those, that same kind of power within the drone operators, but you're taking, uh, young men and
women out of high school and giving them the power without the training and, uh, um, glorifying
something that doesn't deserve to be glorified. Now, isn't another thing that like we just,
we tell people going to war, going off to fight wars that they're fighting for a noble cause,
they're fighting for freedom. But, but in these regime change world, in these regime change wars
and in the history of our wars, they have always been for the acquisition of something, for the
acquisition of oil or, or whatever it might be. But we tell these people, we tell our, our military
are warriors. They believe that they're fighting for a noble cause. They believe that they're fighting
for freedom or for peace. Um, have you ever read, uh, Lieutenant Colonel David Grossman's
on war and on killing? No. So he's got two books on war and on killing and on killing is probably
my favorite of the two because it talks about the psychological cost of killing in warfare.
And throughout history, um, the idea of fighting for a noble cause is given to every group of
soldiers that, that fight, even though we can see through our own lens now that usually that most
people die in very painful way. People cry out for their mothers. But what he says in on killing
is that we, we have to glorify it. A soldier has to glorify and, and say what he's doing is good in
order for him to get past the barriers that prevent him from actually taking the steps necessary.
The term that is used is drinking from the waters of the River Lethe, which is in Greek mythology,
when you're dead, you have to cross the River Lethe and it erases all the memories from your
past so that you can be reborn again. And Mars or Aries the God of War gives a cup of the
River of Lethe to each of the warriors that fights, you know. So we forget the lessons of, of history,
and our society, or we're not even taught it. And so we must, so, so, you know, we have to
the soldiers see their friends and brothers and people die and they have to say that there's a
reason for it. You know, people who lose family in, in the wartime, they have to say, well,
my son or my brother, sister, mother, father sacrificed their life for a noble cause and it
makes them feel better about the loss, the death. Right. And without that aspect of it,
people would be in despair and people would be up in arms. And righteously, they should be up
in arms because if we look at the last 20 years, what have we accomplished at all if our, with
our conflicts over in the Middle East and Africa, where we've just destabilized the world even more
for what purpose they want to get rid of Iran because of, you know, some sort of
control over monetary value of something, it's, it's complete greed. You know, we're not fighting
for a noble cause, we're not fighting an enemy. You know, there was a guy who was trained by the
CIA, who flew plane, who got men to fly planes into, you know, places in the United States. It
wasn't a group of people who an entire culture, it wasn't a specific country, it was a person
trained by the United States military, United States organizations and institutions that eventually
turned on the United States and started this whole conflict. You know, if we look at like what happened
right before 9-11, the day before 9-11 happened, I think it was Colin Powell was getting on MSNBC
and talking about how there's trillions of dollars that are unaccounted for at the Pentagon and all
of a sudden 9-11 happened. If we look at Halliburton and Cheney, they've made trillions of dollars
off this war and we see that our country is in severe debt. You know, our people are in poverty,
it's hard to get health care, it's hard to get food, it's hard to get shelter. So we've really
just destroyed our entire culture for an emotional reason rather than a logical reason or even a
spiritual reason. When I first joined the military, I didn't do so to kill. I joined under the
intelligence program. I did so because I was going to get four to six years, get my education,
get out. I didn't intend to join the drone program. I just scored high enough that they
just shoved me into it. But when I was joining the military, I asked, my family were, they watched
Fox News, they were the typical Republican Christians that don't even think for themselves.
But they were saying that we need to go over there, we need to destroy the enemies of God
and all that type of stuff. But when I actually joined, they were like, oh, you're going to go
overseas and get killed, like we don't want you to do that. So they were willing to send
other people to die. But when it came to a personal sacrifice, that ideal was put in jeopardy.
And then once I actually went to the experience and came out and started talking to my family,
I was wrong because I was no longer in agreement with their ideology. They still think that we
need to be over there. And unfortunately, the Christians that I know still think that we need
to be over there killing Muslims because they're the enemies of God. We're not over there for
anything else. Where's the oil? Where's the resources coming back here? Where's the democracy
that we went to go stabilize? Even if we look at the Kurds, who Saddam Hussein was genociding,
burying in mass graves, we went over there. And as soon as they're free, they're going up in
north into Turkey, north of Missoula. And then we're using our own drones to help kill them
with the Turkish military. So we've betrayed our own allies or basically our only allies over there.
And it's what's it for? It's for greed. There's no nobility.
One of the biggest problems is it's really hard for anyone to have a deep,
nuanced understanding of all these real issues, right? How did you initially get
involved in the whole drone program in the first place? So I, like I said, I joined to be an intel
operator. And they told me that I'd be working with people like James Bond and shit, and played
on my 19 year old ego and sense of adventure. But when I got through Intel school, I was in the top
10 percentile of my class. And so they chose me. Well, really, they chose, I was the first,
my class was the first class to be shoved into this program. And then basically every class
after me for a year were shoved into the drone program to the point where they had too many people
in it. And so it was more an act of
finding bodies to put into it than anything else. And I even tried to get out. Like when I went,
when I showed up to the creature Air Force Base, they told us that our job was to kill people
and break things. And I even went to my commander and was like, I didn't sign up to do this. And he
was like, are you a fucking pussy? Are you going to do their job? Didn't you not swear in order to
defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic? And I was like, yeah,
and he's like, well, then get out there and do your fucking job. You know, and I was just an
Airman first class. I was the bottom of the totem pole. And this guy was a Lieutenant Colonel.
Who the fuck am I to talk against this guy? Right. But if I was, if I had, if I had listened to my
heart and if I had listened to the teachings of my grandfather, I would have been like, yeah,
fuck you, I'm not going to do this. But that's, that's not necessarily the case. And when I look at
back at my time in the drones, I scored a 92 on my ASBAB, which is the military
aptitude test. Most of the people that I was with scored less than a 50. So the minimum,
the minimum to be in the drone program was a 45 on the test. And so really what they wanted was
bodies, you know, they were ramping up the program, they needed people to sit in the seat to, to do the
job. When I was in the 15th Reconnaissance Squadron, I was the first Mac qualified drone operator.
And Mac is multi aircraft control, where basically a drone operator flies the aircraft himself with
the, just the assistance of a pilot. And there were plenty of people that were in my squadron that
could not do that job, because they did not have the aptitude to monitor and take care of a plane
by themselves. And what kind of things were on this aptitude test? Like what qualities were
they testing you for? It's, it's basically like reading comprehension, mechanical comprehension,
linguistic comprehension. There's four categories. I can't remember the fourth category.
Is it true that they, they, they specifically look for gamers like people who are, are
professional video game players? Maybe now, but that wasn't the case. When
Okay, bye. When there was a lot of us that played video games when we were in the military,
especially World of Warcraft, there was a whole bunch of us that played that together.
And you can definitely tell that there is a skill set that is directly involved with this
program. You know, the hand-eye coordination, the ability to instantly recognize whatever
button presses that you need to do in order to, to make the action happen. It's not really that
complicated. Nothing near as complicated as playing World of Warcraft. But there was definitely a
skill set. If you, if you even just look at the stick control, it was like, if you were able to
play Microsoft Flight Simulator with a joystick, you were able to do this. And there were a lot
of people that, you know, their stick control was really horrible where they, they took this,
the control stick, and they would be like, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, bloop, like,
so the camera would go, uh, uh, uh, uh, like, so there was no, the camera didn't have the smooth
controls on it, right? And you could definitely tell the difference between someone who
was put in the program and without any, uh, real skill versus someone who practiced that skill
a long time. Uh, over in Europe, uh, they are recruiting gamers for their own programs, like in
Norway and, and England in the UK. Uh, they are going to video game conferences and I have had
video, uh, feed videos given to me and people who go to these conferences talk to me about this type
of stuff and tell me what is going on. I've not done that myself. So maybe I probably should at
some point. Um, if you go, if you go over to, um, uh, there are these weapons conventions,
military technology conventions that happen, um, and they happen a lot over in Europe, uh,
and that one of the guys that goes over there talks to these dudes, um, and what they're recruiting
and how they're saying, they'll talk to little kids, they'll talk to little kids and be like,
oh, do you play Call of Duty? Um, even in the United States, like the recruiters will show up,
there's been a couple of times in my own hometown where they'll show up with a semi truck
and they'll be, have like United States military on the back of it and they'll be,
and inside will be, um, seats for kids to play video games like Call of Duty and they'll be like,
if you come talk to us for 15 minutes, we'll let you play Call of Duty for 30. Right. So
they'll use those things to, to recruit and they'll say things like, you know, do you really,
do you want to be a real Superman? Do you want to be a real hero? Do you want to be, you know,
uh, all those types of propaganda nonsense that kids would be like, yeah, I want to be a hero.
I want to do something good. I want to fight for glory. I want this or they'll even go to gang,
they'll even recruit gang members who are like, you know, who want the training, who want the
experience just so that they can go back into the game. For the most part, the people that I was
with the beginning were not that intelligent and they were just bodies put in the seat because
they just needed someone to man the camera. They hadn't developed the technology to do it
automatically with artificial intelligence. So when you first got into the program,
what was your job? Like what kind of, what sort of title did they give you?
And what specifically were you doing with the drones? Were you flying them? Were you, were you
shooting the missiles? Like what exactly were you doing? So I was a MQ1 Bravo Predator sensor
operator and that is just a glorified cameraman. You know, I pointed the camera at the target,
the pilot will tell me to point the laser, which guides the missile to impact and the pilot will
pull the trigger so that the missile comes off the rail. But I'm the one that guides the missile
to target. About a month after I finished training, I was flying planes on my own.
I flew planes on my own for about eight months. Eight months. And that means with bare, with
minimal pilot input. So there's an officer pilot and an enlisted sensor operator. And I was the
enlisted dude. The reason why they have a pilot in the other seat is because pilots are JTAC
qualified. So they're qualified to drop ordinance with the approval of a joint tactical air
controller on the ground, who watches our video feed and confirms that that's what they want us
to do. And the JTAC is the guy who, he basically knows what every single ordinance does and its
impact radius, percent of incapacitation, which is like in order for us to fire within,
with friendlies on the ground, there must be a point one percent of incapacitation,
which for the predator missile is 105. What does that mean? That means that there's 0.1 percent
of loss of friendly life at 105 meters of impact. Loss of friendly life. Yeah. Meaning U.S. troops?
Yes. So like if there were troops in the area, like a JTAC on the ground with a convoy,
and the JTAC, even if we knew that they were within range of incapacitation, if the JTAC says
we are 106 meters away, right? He is saying that we are one meter away from 0.1 percent
incapacitation. Even if they're like 50 meters from it, sometimes the JTAC will be like,
yeah, if fire or missile shoot these guys, we are 106 meters away, right? And the official report
will say that, even though they're probably Western. It's like the, you know, I shot multiple times,
and the first time I killed three, the second time I killed two, and the second, everyone always
brings up the second one because the child ran into the field of view, right? Well in the official
report, they put that it was a dog, right? Because that's essentially what they do. They
overwrite what actually happened with their version of events. So if civilians are in the
way, you know, they'll call it collateral damage, and they might not even give the correct numbers.
The only reason that people get the correct numbers is because we have cell phones on the ground now,
people can be like, we lost this many people and posted to social media. In 2014, I think there was
an app on the Apple Store that every time a drone strike happened, it would mark it on a map,
and it would give you local phone numbers to call if there were people in the area.
And that was taken down. So, you know, as technology increases for the
least of us, the reporting gets more accurate, right? And so these institutions can't
falsely report things like, yeah, we killed two high-valued individuals with minimal collateral
damage. Well, no, they can say like there were hundreds of people that were killed for you to
get just these two individuals, right? And it can be personally reported by civilians on the ground.
Now, the shot that you said that you took where there was a doll reported, can you,
I guess, can you walk me through like the procedure of taking what you call a shot?
Yeah. Or that shot in particular?
I'll actually do the first one, because that one is one that's clear in my mind,
you know, what the procedure was. And it's the, you train these procedures. There's a checklist
that you have to run. There's, we have a safety observer who sits there and makes sure that we
run the checklist and everything's within regulations and according to the rules of
engagement and law of armed conflict. So in the first one, I showed up to work and
we have something called monthly currencies where like you have to, you have to take a shot once
a month or run through the checklist to pretend that you're taking a shot and all sorts of stuff.
Well, my currency had ran out and they were like, all right, we're going to put you in the
seat and make you do a real shot. And I show up, get in the seat and we run through the checklist
procedures. But what happened, this one was probably more interesting because they were,
there was a convoy that was in an engagement with Taliban troops and they were firing from
the top of the hill underneath this tree. And they had us, the person that was in the seat before
me had set everything up to take the shot. So I get in the seat after this guy and we're getting
ready to take the shot and we get a call from the JTAC that says that the missile impact would have
less of a result than what we want from the Hellfire missile. So we're going to have the
F-16s that are in the area drop a GBU, a guided bomb, which would have a bigger impact. And so
as we're monitoring this conflict going down, the F-16 gets in contact with us and says,
we found three people, 10 clicks to the south by southwest, put your eyes on this location.
So we move our video feed to this location and we see these three individuals walking down the road
and they can definitely hear this fight going on. Like there's bombs exploding, guns going off,
grenades, all sorts of stuff. And they look terrified. Like they look like they're, you know,
they're walking. It's probably, it was probably really early in the morning, maybe like five o'clock,
six o'clock in the morning. So it's dark? Oh yeah. And so these, there were three individuals,
two of them were walking and talking together and you could see their hand movements and
all these types of things. And the third person in the back was lagging behind and he was,
he could probably hear the F-16s in the area. He was probably listening. And so as soon as we put
eyes on these guys, the screener, who is the intelligence dude who was my job, originally,
that was the job I trained for, is watching this video feed and confirming what's on the video feed.
And he says, we got three individuals with weapons. And the JTAC says, confirm weapons,
you are cleared hot. And cleared hot means you are cleared to engage these individuals at your
discretion. And so the pilot gives a two minute call saying that we'll be ready in two minutes
to pull the trigger. We run through the checklist. We power up the missile. We point the laser.
And the JTAC says, point the miss the laser between the two, the feet of the individuals
in the front, because we'd rather get two than three. So point the laser. And if I'm going to
give you a little background information of my emotional state at this time.
So my very first mission, I saw a convoy hit an ID. And I heard there's cries over the radio for
medical help. And basically all we could do was sit there and watch them. So I had this, I had this
you know, programmed hate into me. You know, I watched our own guys die. People in our own team
die. I want to fucking kill these guys. I want them to die. I want them to suffer the consequences
for hurting us. And there's a difference between killing out of survival and killing out of conflict
and killing out of hate because of an ideology. And when we, when I real, I was so laser focused
on these guys, and I wasn't really actually sure if I was able to do it, even though I felt all
this, this emotional turmoil inside of me. When the missile finally impacted and hit,
we know was the missile comes off the rail and 1.5 seconds, 1.3 seconds after it comes off the rail,
it hits the sound barrier. So it's sonic booms. But because the missile takes so long to get to
target, the kinetic energy of the missile slows down that the sonic boom hits the target about
four to six seconds before impact. So the guy that was behind everyone else
heard the sonic boom and runs towards the other two and we ended up getting all three.
Right. So the first two people were in pieces. You can see the body parts everywhere. And the
third guy had his leg, one of his right leg cut off right above the knee. And I watched him bleed
out. And that was, you know, when you hurt some, I've never heard before that I never heard him,
even though I was a wrestler, I never, I got into a couple of fights in high school, but I never
hurt someone. Right. I just defended myself. This didn't feel like defending myself. This
felt like straight up murder. Like I watched the guy, the guy bled out. He was rolling around on
the ground. I can only just imagine what he was thinking. Right. Like I'm, I, he knew he was dying.
Like you can tell he like rolling on the ground holding his leg. And the people on the watching
our video feed were like, keep eyes on, we just want to see if anyone comes up and picks up the
body parts. And so I kept my camera on it and we watched this guy in infrared turn from a hot blob
with his blood squirting out of his leg, pulling underneath him. And we watched them cool down
enough so that they became no different from the ground that they, they died on. And it was
January. So actually what date, what's the date today is 20. Okay. So six days will be my 15th
year anniversary, 16 year, 14 year anniversary from when I snow 15 years. Holy shit. 2021.
Yeah. So it'll be 15 years since my first hellfire missile shot. Jesus. And, and I remember it as
clear as if it happened yesterday. No. And after like, you know, you never really think that you
can do it until it happens. And after it happened, I was devastated. Like I was in, I was in shock.
Like I felt like I just did something that I had no right to do. You know, I took another human
being's life in such a gross way. Like they had no way to fight back. They had no way to, to,
I didn't look them in the eye. I didn't know who they were. I didn't see their face. We just
ended their life. And I watched a guy slowly drain his life out. And afterwards, I left,
like I left when people were celebrating in my squadron, people were like high fiving themselves
as if they're like, yeah, we're winning the war on terror. Yeah, high five. Yeah, congratulations.
But I felt nothing but sickness in me. And I left. And as I was driving, I drove off base,
and I called my mother and I cried to her and I, as a young man, like I cried. And I was like,
I can't believe I did this. I can't believe that I, I did it. I felt so sick. And I called her every
after every shot to tell her this. And the advice that she gave me was, you know,
I know that it's a horrible thing, but you're being there and feeling bad about it is a good
thing. Because it means that you'll make sure that the wrong people don't need to die. The wrong
people aren't going to be killed. But as I look back on, as I reflect on my time in the military,
I'm not sure if there was a right person. You know, we caused this whole mess. Like, even
there was one time I was in what they call the predator operation center, which is similar to
what they show on in movies and stuff, where there's all these video screens in this command
center with all these feeds going on. And there was one time in downtown Baghdad that I watched a
dude pull out two little girls from the back of his vehicle, the trunk, and execute them in the
middle of the street and drive off. And he did it because he was like, the US can't touch me,
like no one can touch me. And he did it as a statement. In Afghanistan, I watched a guy,
a mayor, a village elder who let his village be kidnapped by known members of the Taliban
and executed as well. And even these guys, like, you know, the guy was executed for not
cooperating with them and for cooperating with the enemy, right? We were the enemy.
And so even when I look at them, like, I feel like that's our fault. You know, we caused this
conflict. We caused this strike. We weren't going over there to bring peace. We were going over there
to bring a sword, right? We were doing this in such an unhealthy way. And no matter what I look
back at, I don't feel like we were noble. No, we didn't do it good and right. And in my second shot,
when the child ran into the field of view, like, I remember my supervisor. So it was called out
on screen that a dog, that was a dog that was on the field. How did that whole second shot
start? Like, like, how did that, that, that whole mission or that, that whole operation
specifically begin? So usually, you know, things when, when the shots happen, it's not like
an immediate thing. Usually there's the build up. They've been following
two high valued individuals, and they had thought that they were in this farmhouse. And they had
been monitoring traffic in and out of this farmhouse. And eventually they thought that, well,
the two guys that were looking for are in there. So we're just going to take the shot. And that had
been that that decision had been made before I sat in the seat. And so when I had, when I had been
sitting, when I had come to sit in the seat, I didn't know about that decision. Right. So I had
just been, you know, it'd been the guy before me had been watching this for eight hours, the guy
before him had been watching it for eight hours and then watched the aircraft of this mission.
And I had just thought, well, I'm just going to be the guy that just watched this mission. I thought
that usually they're going to act when they say that they're going to action a place, it's going
they're going to send a group of Rangers in there to capture these dudes and figure out
what they're doing. And so when they finally made the decision to shoot, it was more like, well,
we don't want to send anyone in there, we're just going to shoot these guys. And
while I had, you know, I had been feeling quite loathsome of myself. I thought that, you know,
I'm in this position, I might as well follow through.
And so it was an L shaped building, and everything was going down and, you know,
it was typical run the checklist, point the, we estimate that they're probably in this area of
the building, pointer crossers at this corner, turn on the laser, and that was it. Right.
And I'm sitting there just mindless. And I had a lot of drama going on with my peers,
like my peers were really dumb and stuck in high school. So like I said before, one of the
problems is there's no discipline in the drone program is because they take a lot of high school
kids who still stuck in high school, the drama. How old were you at the time? 19. Actually, I was
20. Okay, I just turned 20 in November before that. And my second shot happened right,
either right before or right after Valentine's Day, I kind of get confused, but it was at that
point in time. And this girl that I was, I had dated in the squadron, if I were to give any advice
to people in the military, never date anyone in your squadron, it just causes a whole bunch of
problems. And this girl was causing problems for me. She was, I broke up with her and she
wanted to sleep around and she was saying things, really nasty things about me. I tried to apologize
to her, I tried to make right with her, my grandfather had just been, he's like, just be
kind to her. And she just caused more and more drama. And so I was feeling all that as well.
And when the, so we're sitting there on this building, and they give us the order to shoot.
And again, you know, these people over there, they hear the sonic boom, the missile impact,
they know what's going on. So I think that this person who, the child who ran into the building
was told that if you ever hear something like this run into shelter, right? And that was probably
the closest shelter building that they have, right? And if it was early in the morning,
like most of the shots happen, that person was probably taking care of their animals,
because there was a, there was a little barn that had a couple of sheep and goats or whatever
in it, and maybe a few cows. And this person could have been taking care of doing the early
morning chores. And here's this, this sonic boom go off and run into the building.
So you saw this, this small person or child run into the building after you pulled the trigger?
Yeah, after we pulled the trigger and about six seconds before impact, like,
and it was probably even sooner than that, it just seems like the time goes off, but the
sonic boom, whatever it was, hit this area first and the person ran into the building,
or was, I'm not even sure if they got into the building, they were just running into it as the
missile struck. And so like, I, I was devastated. When I went to my supervisor, I was like,
look, man, this is not right. Like, and he's like, send me an email about it, just, you know,
just ignore it, just, you know, go with the official report. And I was, you know,
they teach us one of the core values of the Air Force is integrity first service before self
and excellence and all we do. And in that regard, we failed. There was no, there's no integrity in
what we're doing. There's no excellence. And there was no service, you know, service to greed,
service to violence is maybe the best I can come up with. And I reviewed the tapes, I reviewed the
feed, and everyone basically told me that you shut the fuck up, you know, shut the fuck up,
we don't want to hear it. And so I did, you know, I, I bitched a lot while I was in,
but that was because I was the best at what I did, you know, I would tell people that were
being wasted, that were being used, that this is a waste of time. But so what they do, they just
made me work more. They just put me in a GCS and made me do the job more. And it was, it was
really devastating to me. It was, it crushed me with all the drama that was happening behind the
scenes. I, it killed me. It really, it killed who I believe that I could be, you know, it killed
the dream that I had for, for who I wanted. One second, I'm going to shut the door.
Okay.
And I keep trying to tell people this, and it's like I, I'm speaking to deaf ears, right?
When I remember when I first got out of the military, I started hanging out. I met a Vietnam
veteran who recognized the signs within me. And he's like, you need to go to therapy about this,
but I had a top secret clearance at the time. And I knew that going to therapy puts your top
secret clearance in, in jeopardy. Actually, I think I still have my top secret clearance now
that I think about it. How do you still have it? How do you still have a top secret clearance?
Because I got it renewed right before I got injured. And it's, it renews for 10 years.
And it hasn't been 10 years. Actually, it'll be 10 years.
And how did you get injured?
I had a, I have a traumatic brain injury. I had a 170 pound log. It dropped on me during a training
exercise. Oh, broke my skull in two places and compressed my spine and bounced off my
shoulder. I tried to catch it, which was probably the worst idea that I could have had, but I thought
I was tough. And so, I mean, that was, that was actually the reason why I blew the whistle was,
was because I was on my deathbed and I was facing the consequences of a
tarnished soul. And I wanted to, the whistleblowing was essentially my deathbed confession.
If we want to look at the, my wrestler background, what is a whistleblower? You know, it's a referee,
someone who says, time out, you know, we're doing the wrong thing. And I had a lot of compassion
for people in the drone program. Like, I knew that I knew what they were doing and what they were
going through and the, the, the sickness that was happening. But after I came out and started
speaking, it was like my entire, everyone turned on me, you know, in, in the worst fashion, like,
you know, I have a, I have a, I have a stalker, you know, now his name is Rick Rynearsson. He has
his blog who talks, he says all sorts of shit about me. He's in his blog, he calls me, he says
that I'm part of a death cult who use the powers of the people that, the souls of the people I
killed to give myself supernatural powers, stuff like that, all sorts of weird shit.
And this guy was, he claims to be have come from the program. And they say all sorts of
shit. My, my call sign in the military was church because I was a good church kid, you know,
and I'm no longer religious. In fact, I, I, I disdain religion above all things. I think that
it's, it leads people astray more than it leads people to fight. And even in the military, they
say that we're, we're doing this for God and country. When I went, when I was in the third SOS,
they made me go see a chaplain because I couldn't see a therapist due to my clearance. And the
chaplain was like, God wants you to feel this way. God wants you to kill these people. And
it's all right. And like, they were trying to use my own religion against me when my grand,
my great grandfather was a minister for his whole life. And my grandfather was the one who
raised me. And he would totally have been, you know, I didn't get a confess to him anything
before he died, before he passed away. But I know for a fact my grandfather would have been like,
this isn't, this isn't the God that I don't. It's so, it's so crazy to think that the greatest
superpower in the world of the United States is, has 19 year old high school students flying around
shooting hellfire, hellfire missiles at apartment buildings or into wedding parties to weddings,
funerals, you name it, you name it, we've done it. Dude, it's mind blowing to think about that.
Yeah, it's, it's the reality. And it, and it's strange to see all the media like one of the
reasons. So a big reason, this is kind of a serendipitous moment. But when I was in, so
my injury happened when I was in training for survival. I was going to be a survival teacher,
you know, I didn't want to be a guy on the ground because I knew the shit they went through. But
I wanted to be someone that taught people how to survive in these scenarios, right. And when I was
in training, when I was in breakfast one day, they had, they would always have the news on,
whether it was MSNBC or CNN or Fox News, they'd probably, they usually had one of each. And
Obama, there was a civilians, was it civilians or friendlies were killed, something, an accident
happened with the drones and there was being reported. And President Obama himself was saying
that it was the operator's fault that this happened, not the intelligence, not the military.
And I was like, oh, motherfucker, I voted for you. And you just, you just straight up lied and threw
the entire drone community under the bus. And that was actually one of the ideas that I had was to
redeem my own group of people, because we're just, we're just instruments, right? We're just,
we're just basically tools for the military to do this job. We have no say. And they don't even,
they don't even tell us who it is that we're killing. They're just like, this guy's a bad guy.
We're looking for nefarious activity. We want you to shoot him. This is our, this is what we've
determined. And it just really infuriated me that, you know, they were blaming us for their
poor decisions, you know, for their mistakes. They weren't taking responsibility. And
there was a, I could speak about the military leadership and how they were, they're very poor.
The military leadership that was in the program, they didn't fly. Most of them were people that
were rejects from other squadrons. About six months after my first shot, you know, wait,
January, February, March, April, May, five months after my first shot, they did something called
a patch swap, which shoved majority of the people into joint special operations command.
But a lot of these people that were in military leadership, they didn't actually do the job.
They were trained to do it. They would come in, they would do their currencies once a month,
and they would get flight pay. And that's a, it was like basically double their income.
And they wouldn't even be flying. And people like me, who we didn't get flight pay,
I was flying, I was probably flying six days a week, 12 hour shifts. And I never once got paid
or compensated. You know, and there are these people that would fly who were in, you know,
they go to parties and they do all these kinds of stuff. If you were part of the good old boys
club, you didn't have to fly very much. And you can go and volunteer and pad your enlisted
performance report, all sorts of stuff. They would totally discard what was happening overseas
and what we were participating in, so they could be political, politically and socially set.
And that was a really poor environment. And, and a lot of the pie. So there was at one point,
a three star admiral came in and was like, we want to get the Navy involved in this and send you
guys people to train up and we want our own drones. And I want to talk to your leadership about this.
And we sent them a captain, a staff sergeant and a senior airman. And the guy was like,
where are you enlist? Where are your senior leadership? Where's your upper echelon leadership?
And we were like, well, these guys know the most, they've been in the program the longest since it
was in prototype. And the guy was like, Oh, yeah, this is unsatisfactory. Went to the secretary
of defense and the secretary of the Air Force and said, we need to put bodies higher enlisted in
officers into these positions. And so they sent out this missive to the entire military that was
like, we need people for the drone program. Well, they didn't. No one joins the military to fly
remote controlled aircraft. Like pilots don't join the military to sit in a box to fly remote
control. They want to be in the air. They want to be in their machine and they want to feel it
because it fucking gets them off. And so the people who were responding to this were like,
yeah, this is a joke. They sent us all their rejects. My first supervisor was a cop reject
because no one could fucking stand him. Everyone hated him in his prior squadron. And so they sent
them to us. And as a way, well, it's a cross training opportunity for you to expand your
military career. And to get promoted, he ended up getting master sergeant because of it,
basically just giving it to him. He was a good tester, but he was a terrible human being. And
you know, most of the people were like that, the pilots that were given to us were rejects from
their squadrons. They couldn't make flight lead, they couldn't make flight command. They were
one of the pilots that I was that I loved to death was, he was a B 52 guy, and he would get
air sick. So because he couldn't stay in the air, they sent him to drones. There was another pilot
that I loved who was my commander in Iraq. And he the reason he was an he was an F 16 pilot.
And the reason he was no longer an F 16 pilot was because his eyes were gone. And he didn't
want to get out of the military force retirement. So he became a drone operator, right? So we had
a lot of these guys with medical problems. And there's a couple of dudes with behavioral problems
as well. They spend millions of dollars to train these guys. And then they don't want to get rid
of them. Because if they kick them out of the military, these guys either go to jail or spend
the rest of the lifetime. Oh, shit. Oh, my, what happened? Your computer fell in my little desk
thing. Oh, oh, okay, lay down, but lay down, lay down, lay down, lay down. You know, and they send
they just these guys that had behavioral problems, they after I eat, I'll use an example for one of
them. This guy's when I started blowing the whistle. A couple years ago, his ex girlfriend
called me up and was like, I need you to reach out to this dude, because one of the pilots that
you were with is now like he's in jail, he's drinking, he's gambling, got gambling problems,
he's no longer in, he just fucking lost it. Like he got out and was like, he just lost his shit.
One of the women pilots that I was friends with. When we were when we were flying, like we would
complain, like her and I would be like, this fucking sucks. This is, you know, she was a heavy
pilot. So she she was a transport and she was like, I love flying, like that was my dream. And now
I'm sitting here, murdering people and hunting people down like this is a nightmare. And at one
point she was flying a training mission, a local sorority, and she ran the aircraft off the runway.
She like had a mental breakdown at when the aircraft was coming off the runway didn't pull
up and the aircraft just went off the runway. Right. So a lot of these people would just they
would just have mental breakdowns because we weren't getting we weren't getting not getting the support
that we needed. How far do you guys take off? How far do the drones fly? Where are they based out of?
So they're based in country and they can they can fly for up to 17 to 32 hours, depending on
missile loadout. The reason I say 32 hours because I was part of the longest predator
mission at the time. I launched the aircraft, no missiles, max fuel, no even Intel pod to
gather information. It was just empty load, max fuel. I launched the aircraft came back 24 hours,
did an eight hour mission later and landed the aircraft in the final mission in the final hours
so 17 hours is probably a good estimate if it's a full loadout.
And they have eight usually the ceiling is between in Afghanistan it's 18 to 25,000 feet
and in Iraq it's 11,000 to 15,000 feet above sea level. And where were you physically based
during all this? I was in for the first part of my career I was stationed in Las Vegas at
Nellis Air Force Base, had training at Creature Air Force Base which is 40 minutes north of Vegas
and then I was moved to the drama with the girl that I dated in the military forced me to be
stationed over in New Mexico. So I was the last part of my career I was with the third SOS down
in Canada Air Force Base which is in Clovis, New Mexico. I was over in Iraq for six months.
Six months. Yeah 2007. And that's where you saw the thing with the guy that pulled up in his car
and execute two girls and no actually that was so a lot of strangely enough most of the action
that happened was when I was in Nellis Air Force Base. The description that I like to use but I
don't think I've ever heard anyone use it before is it was like the Wild West. You know when we
were in Nellis we had very little rules governing us other than the law of conflict and the rules
of engagement. And so it was very much like if we were in the area and there was something happening
people would call us up and be like hey we need your missile we need your eyes we need you to do
this. The first and I got so I graduated on my birthday 18 November in 2006 from training
and then my first mission was December 4th and there's an end of the year report that we have
at our Christmas parties and they said that 200 and I want to say 212 but I don't think that's right
200 plus shots were fired over the course of the last year in just the 15th reconnaissance alone.
So over the course of the next six months I witnessed that happen like pretty much every
day that I would go in a shot to be recorded like it was debriefed it was briefed with us every
every brief and debriefed every debrief right and then the shots were always shown to us everyone
got to see them. If on my lunch break there was a 7-eleven that was across the street next to a
papa I'm not papa it's jack in the box and my buddies and I would take the squadron van and go
and get lunch and then bring it back and we would sit in the predator operation center and watch
missions. Now we'd be sitting there with slurpees and fucking corn dogs and watching this shit happen.
When I was in the 3rd SOS we went from basically 200 shots plus a year with the 15th reconnaissance
squadron to the 3rd SOS to maybe less than 10 shots each right because I actually respected
this joint special operations mission more than I respected the conventional forces mission
because they were in my understanding they were actually hunting the dudes that were high up
individuals and and trying to not let this conflict go out of control but eventually the
same corruption that the 15th was dealing with made its way over into joint special forces because
you can't have a group of secrecy operating at that level without corruption eventually
taking over but the difference is staggering I spent more hours just sitting there watching
marketplaces and what they call patterns of life with the 3rd SOS than I did with the 15th
reconnaissance squadron. After all these shots you said they were they were like debriefed did
was there ever a record or was there always a record of potential civilian casualties with
every single one of these shots? No in fact from what I can remember the collateral damage
was never mentioned. Never not even thought of? No it was it was like yeah we got these individuals
a funny thing here's a here's a fun little funny story so pilots are very particular I as much as
I hate especially fighter pilots they're their egocentric personalities they've got a lot of
quirky traits and one of the the funny things is is that a pilot after every action there has to be
something called an after-action record and when I was in the when I first joined the 15th reconnaissance
squadron we had so few people that usually it would be the same pilots doing the shots
more often than not and they would write novels like it was like watching someone writing the
next script for the next top gun it was like I was in the seat and I was doing this and and
we were watching this action happen and they would they would go into so much detail of things
that were going on that eventually because leadership has to read every report they would be like
keep the report to a paragraph you know six to eight sentences that's it so and then it became
after after that order came down it went from being everything reported as what's going on to being
like you know not even complete sentences it'd be like missile came off the rail missile impacted
missile took out two individuals that were labeled as high profiled individuals mission
accomplished stuff like that so it was it wasn't even like I remember reading one report and the
pilot was like I was sitting there drinking my coffee and we got the call from the JTAC to
power up our missile like it was just like this thriller that they wanted to write right they wanted
to be a part I actually knew a pilot who got out and went to Hollywood because he wanted to write
he was so inundated in the top gun world that he wanted right a top script for really yeah
that's fascinating I'm actually curious about this new top gun movie coming out because I hear
that there's drones I didn't even know there was a new top gun movie coming out supposed to come
out this year but it's coming out or last year but it's supposed it's coming out this year really
yeah top gun to Tom Cruise and everything no we're not doing Tom Cruise again are they yeah yeah
really yeah if I ever had the chance I would actually like to get a conversation with that guy
because there's so many people and so many pilots that just reference top gun and him and Maverick
in the drones like they wanted to be Maverick like I have more respect for Iceman because Iceman was
professional you know it was it was Maverick's mistake that got Goose killed right right and so
and Iceman was he's not a bad guy he was just a strictly disciplined dude you know and so many of
the pilots that were in the drones were rejects because but they felt because of that they felt
like they didn't belong in the normal group they were the Maverick you know my stalker Rick Rineerson
wants to be Maverick he wants to be Maverick in fact he calls him he labels himself as Django
from Django and Chain like he wants to be Django like he has this idea of this egocentric great
personality that he wants to be but essentially they're just wannabes yeah well like we were talking
about earlier kind of gives them a story kind of gives them some sort of meaning or purpose right
I feel like everywhere you hear about drone strikes or you hear about these drone operations
and the massive civilian casualties it's always synonymous with Yemen
why is why is Yemen why is Yemen and drone strikes so synonymous
um mostly because we shouldn't even be over there and um Yemen is a humanitarian crisis going on
right now like there is it the children are starving entire places are being devastated
and the excuse that was given to me was that their government requested us to help them out
um so when I was in the third SOS the end of my enlistment um I was a part of an operation
to track down and hunt Anwar al-Alaki who was an Islamic Imam the holy man uh this guy when 9-11
happened was invited to the White House by the Bush administration and was even friends with the
Obama administration like went to the White House and was like yeah we need to be over there there are
you know radical Islam is not Islam where's this guy originally from Anwar al-Alaki for
people who don't know his full story like what he's from Yemen okay but he was a United States
citizen and lived in Colorado um I think Colorado Springs actually if I'm if we want to be specific
and his son uh Abdullah Rahman lived here too right and so when Anwar al-Alaki he was invited
he you know being a celebrity in his religion he was invited to go to mosques all over the world
and he especially of course any compassionate religious figure would go and help his people
regardless like uh one of my favorite phrases is from the Bhagavad Gita when Lord Krishna is
talking to Arjun and he's saying he's like anyone can come to me whether they be good or
evil and I will give them their judgement right and I think that you know my grandfather was
the same way like if anyone came to him regardless of whether they were the worst scum in the world
or the noblest of saints he would still talk to them as if they you know they're still human
and so uh Anwar went to the went to a mosque and of course there were people that were opposed
to what the US government was doing over there coming and talked to them and he was giving them
advice we don't know what advice it was I wasn't told what advice but we got video of him talking
to known members of I think Hamas and just that alone right there was enough for people to be like
okay we should kill him but then he was like he saw the devastation that was happening in Yemen
he saw what we were doing and what was going on he was like the United States is wrong the United
States is wrong in this and you know what they decided to do but kill him uh right before
I anywhere sorry to interrupt but I feel like anywhere you are whether you and you're in the
United States Africa Yemen if you see a a exorbitant amount of innocent people being
slaughtered for no reason you're going to feel extremely passionate about or extreme you're
going to feel compassion compassion and or resentment for whoever is doing that whoever's
responsible for that yep and uh I remember that my leadership was you know every brief that we'd
have they'd be like this guy deserves to die he's a traitor the United States blah blah blah blah
but um no one really you know one of the first times I actually ever read the constitution
was at the end of my enlistment you know we're we swear no to this thing yet we're
don't have to fucking understand it or know it no one teaches us they just like do you swear to
uphold the constitution right everybody talks about it yeah um yeah protect it that's all we know
yeah right um uh and so I I remember coming in on one day and one of the pilots I'm gonna just
I'm gonna name him and I hope he forgives me but I respect this guy a lot his name was Chris Ayers
he was a major in the Air Force and uh him and I him and I had a game going on wherever he was
a briefing I would go in and I would change one of his slides to say something silly or stupid
or I would like copy one of the slides like 10 times so that when you click the button it would
go to the same slide so him and I him and I would play these games to just entertain ourselves
and I remember coming in one day and he looked like he was like this he was like oh my god like
he looked sick and I go up and I was like hey sir what's going on my what's up and he was like
we're now going to be flying armed in Yemen when previously we weren't you know the the
episode that I said that I flew the longest mission that was a Yemen mission and it was
we were flying unarmed with no second pod because we were just doing visual and it was February of
2011 and he's just like yeah we're flying armed now and if we are given the order to kill Anwar
Alalaki President Obama himself will call up the GCS ground control station and give the order
and I was like awesome like we're gonna kill this guy like it's probably gonna be me right like
I'm probably gonna be the dude that's gonna do it it's the one there was three of us there were
three crews that that flew this mission because it was so high profile what did you guys know
about Anwar Alalaki at that time nothing like we just knew that he was a traitor I didn't look him
up I didn't know anything I was just doing what I was told right I I would didn't look watch the news
or do any of that type of stuff because it just I knew from what they were reporting versus what
we were doing I knew that they were reporting back right and I was like I was like all right
we're finally gonna get this mission done so what's the problem and he looks at me and he's like
church don't you understand that our constitution says that even a traitor deserves a fair and free
trial in front of a jury of his peers we're violating we're violating we're violating everything
that I swore to do and I was kind of like whoa really he's like yeah he's like this is this is
wrong um and I I remember um so we have to build a mission profile a mission folder before every
every launch and as I was usually the person that launched the aircraft I was the one that
was making this folder so I'm sitting at the computer and I'm putting it together and putting
the dossier together and I get this sense of I'm standing at the printer and I get this sense of
vertigo like like I'm thinking to myself yeah I'm probably going to be the one to kill this guy I
want the like if Obama like I voted Obama in the office right like I voted this guy I'm gonna get
an order from the president in the United States the guy who I voted in the off like I just had
it was like this euphoria and then I remembered my first shot I had forgotten about it and I
remember what my mom said and my mom said that you know as soon as you want to do it that means
that you are no longer capable of carrying the responsibility of doing it right and I don't know
if you've heard of a book series called the wheel of time that's one of my favorite book series I
read it I've read it five times um and it's a super long series but there's one point one of the
characters gets an axe and he's this young boy and he's like practicing with it in the woods and he
wants to he wants to use it he wants to be this hero and um he ends up killing some other men
and getting sick like just horribly sick from it and his mentor comes up and he says he's like
it's good that you feel this way you know as soon as you want to do it then you must throw that axe
away rock the other way and my mom said the same thing in different words you know like right after
I had done it and so like I had this echo like these this this um series that I had loved so much
and my mom's words and my grandfather's teachings just echoed within me and I had this sense of
vertigo that I was doing the wrong thing and I was like I can't stay in I was I was thinking about
maybe re-enlisting I was thinking about like had I re-enlisted they were going to make me an MQ9
Reaper operator I was going to get sent down to White Sands um and then I was like I can't do this
I can't be a part of this anymore um and right before I got out it could have been like right
before I got out or right after no it was right after so I left early I got I got Terminal Leave
84 days of Terminal Leave and in April of that year they had their first attempt to capture
Enwaller Lockie and they failed um the air the helicopter that was going after them had a critical
malfunction and crashed in the middle of the desert and I think it killed five Marines um
so then they were like yeah we're just going to kill them and uh I had people keeping me updated
and then uh later that year um Enwaller Lockie was killed and then his son Abdullah Rahman was
killed two weeks later well I find out that Abdullah Rahman or what had happened was as soon
as Enwaller Lockie started speaking out against the US government they took his passport away
and trapped him in Yemen couldn't come back um which he intended to he intended to come back
and go to Washington and and make a stink and being like this is wrong you must stop this
well instead he he had power right he had he was he was basically the um uh Islamic Martin Luther
King right he wasn't trying to incite violence he was saying that the United States was wrong
doing uh and then uh he became more once they took his passport away he became radicalized
and then his son who who ran away from home to find his father went to Yemen
was killed in a drone strike because the United States didn't want him to become an icon
like was Enwaller doing some crazy shit like praising the the guys who flew the planes
in the towers on 9-11 and and was I don't I don't know about that I just know that once
his passport was taken from him by the United States and he was hunted down he became radicalized
and whatever he said uh from that you know he was just super fucking pissed right and his
emotional state it's I'm not excusing what he was saying I'm saying that his emotional state
pushed him to to into a he saw the suffering and he took it on his as his own and he he did what he
was uh believed was right even if it was wrong um and one of the things that people don't know
about the Trump administration is that Anwar's daughter was also in Yemen at the beginning
of Trump's administration and he ordered them to kill her because they didn't want her to become
uh an icon either so uh Trump gave the order to kill an eight-year-old girl
and that went through yeah it went through the the Yemeni crisis is is wrong on all fronts
and I don't know what they're searching for over there I don't know there's there I don't know what
resources or the destabilization or whatever but if we if we even go back to Sun Tzu's the
art of war the way that you win a war is not through violence the way that you win a war
is by getting the people on your side and the way that you get the people on your side is not
by inciting violence but by giving them the resources that they need to live a normal life
you know not everyone wants to be an entrepreneur not everyone wants to be a rich CEO not everyone
wants a golden fucking toilet seat people just want to live their lives free and happy and what
we're doing over in the Middle East is causing the opposite of that and even when we look at our
own home we're doing that as well if we look at the Black Lives Matter movement the same
operations that were being done over the Middle East the signals intelligence the following
they're they were flying drones over armed drones over US cities uh following these Black Lives Matter
people um uh do you know uh uh Chris Doerner have you ever heard of him no so Chris Doerner was a
radicalized police officer in LA who uh Black man who was seeing all the corruption going on
and took a stand against the police and they fired him and so then he started killing corrupt
oh i have heard this story um so they found him in a cabin in the woods and if you listen to the radio
the whole radio sequence that plays out was a fabrication it was all in act they said that they
they said that they burned that the cabin down with gasoline and everything right well what
actually happened was they shot a fucking health fire missile killed so he was killed on American
soil by the california guard um with a health fire missile um how do you know this uh because
i know people that were in the california are so this isn't public this isn't public knowledge
no but those but those same tactics that was the first i i think that that was the first
uh person killed with a health fire missile on u.s soil but they were uh in the protests that
were happening all over the united states the california guard the texas guard the sarah q's
guard were all flying drones uh white uh there's there's guard bases all over the united states
that do this and they all have their own drones on the base and they do fly them for practice over
the local area so it's no stretch of the imagination to say that well for practice we're just going to
actually do mission operations over in the united states
and these drones were armed yeah they're on so you know all these people are worried about
being tracked on their phones and stuff you know they're everyone's being tracked everything is
being monitored what we're our conversation right now is being monitored right now our conversation
is being tracked and disseminated and people are are doing these types of things you know there's
nothing that you can say or do that is going to escape the attention of these people who
have developed this technology um the thing that is advantageous to most people is that
they have an algorithm monitoring them not actual people i have actual people monitoring my shit
meaning specifically i don't know government agencies you know i have i have people interfering
with my my own personal life all the time i have people uh with my whole with all the stuff that
i'm having with my local community uh the police follow me every time i leave my house and i gotta
that's an important thing i think we should bring up the the reason that we're not sitting together
right now doing this podcast is because you're not allowed to leave the state yeah um so i if the
story behind that is my mayor and city council are fraud wastes and abuse of government resources
taxpayer money they're doing something called using something called tax increment financing
which uh if you look into it it's taking possible future taxes and using that money now and then
increasing the taxes to pay it back later well they've been giving money to out-of-state developers
and people coming in from out of state there's a guy from wisconsin named nick jacota whose father
made money by selling faulty medical equipment and then was uh exiled from wisconsin
while running for congress because he was so corrupt um he's here in missoula and he wants
to be this music mogul he wants to make missoula some sort of music venue place um and the city
council was going to give him 17 million dollars in tax money to build a failed business that was
going to be under his control for 70 years and we were going to pay it back after 70 years well
also uh we've got a bank called stockman's bank that was given 4.4 million dollars in tax money
to build their building and the first interstate bank of montana was given 1.5 million dollars of
taxpayer money to build their their bank when they could have done it themselves right the whole
point of being a business person is to make those investments and build the business yourself and um
it's increased the the cost of living in missoula is is has skyrocketed since engan has become mayor
and uh there are 120 plus houses on the market and only 17 of them are below
um so you broke up for that last part would you say there's 17 17 houses that are uh below
a million dollars on the market right now in my own hometown and the median income in missoula
is less than 40 000 dollars whoa so i yelled at the mayor for basically stealing money and giving
it to the wealthy like the sheriff of nottingham and the they put me in jail for a month
so uh how did you yell at the mayor where were you how city i was just at a city council meeting
okay and i told them so i told them the story i don't know uh so i make a lot of biblical references
because i i was trained in the biblical mythology but uh king david is my favorite biblical character
and king david is the man who's called a man after god's own heart the only one in the bible in fact
and he was an adulterer a liar scoundrel but he was king and the reason why he was called a man
after god's own heart because he was repentant and the prophet nathan at uh who was the prophet
during that time came into david and told the story he says there was once a rich man with 99 sheep
and a poor man with one and the rich man was having guests come over to his house so he goes out to
his land and sees his 99 sheep but he sees that the poor man's one sheep is greater than all of his
99 so he takes the poor man's sheep and serves him up to his guest and leaves the poor man destitute
with nothing and i was like do you guys understand this and we've been going i've been going to the
city council meetings for about two months at that time and they didn't listen they were all
bought off they were all there for popularity contest they were they've fucked up mazula like
they literally have fucked up mazula um jackson construction company a developer has the mayor
angan has been giving them money and got uh his apartment his condominium under uh market price
for working with them through a uh an llc a shell company and so i exposed all this and uh so i was
like do you understand the story do you understand what it is that i'm telling you and they just
kind of were like they're on their cell phones they were on the computer and i was like you are
that rich man and i yelled at him and i was like you have stolen from my home you have stolen from
my community like my grandparents had to sell their family home my grandparents had to sell
their family home my uncle had to sell my great-grandparents home because they can no longer afford
to pay the tax the property taxes here you know we've been here since the 70s my grandpa led
hellgate high school to its first state champion legendary my grandpa has taken hellgate hellgate
high school yeah wow what a great name we're uh actually where uh the city of mazula the entry way
to help uh the city of mazula is called hellgate canyon really yeah that's amazing there's a
beach right down the street from here that we call the gates of hell that we call the gates of hell
because it's junction six six six that's cool yeah it's funny yeah it's called hellgate canyon
because uh when the settlers were coming through the native americans would kill all the settlers
and just leave their corpses oh fuck yeah yeah holy shit yeah um so like like my family my mom
has been a teacher my grandfather was a teacher at hellgate by a biology teacher uh my mom has
been a teacher in the montana school district for almost 25 years now i was gonna be a teacher my
grandfather was a minister helped build a couple churches here also my my father is a rancher
who owns 10 000 acres of 40 miles from here my family has deep deep deep connections here
and people are leaving because they can't afford to live here anymore because wealthy people from
out of state are coming in and and buying the politicians um and the people that are uh the
slumlords that are here they they force people to pay exorbitant rents but pretty much all the
people that live here live in squalor at their slums uh my sister moved out of a place that this guy
he has multiple boats he has four wheelers and snowmobiles in a large truck and he could barely
be bothered to go and fix anything that they had wrong their apartment like their apartment was
falling apart um and so i yelled at the mayor and they jailed me for inciting a improper influence
of a government official is what they said they arrested you right there on the spot uh no they
put a lot of warrant for my arrest and i turned myself in because i was like you guys are fucking
stupid like this is so dumb they jailed they put me in jail for a month um and it's been a year
it's now it'll be a year and a half before i get my trial uh and the reason being is because
they don't have anything like uh they're they're they're oh one of the things that people don't
know is that um calispell montana is actually a hub for drone development and there's a lot of money
and people wanting to put me in jail and punish me for what i did right and if they put me in
jail then i lose all my medical benefits from the ba um which is how i survive right so if i go to
jail then i get all my benefits taken away if they convict me of a felony i'm no longer eligible
for benefits and i'm basically going to be a poor man on the street they can silence you effectively
yeah um do you think do you think this is specifically tied to your whistleblowing and
speaking out about the drone programs and all this oh absolutely the guy who uh the guy who got me
into speaking out at the city council meeting he actually told me that i was he's like you're
probably going to go to jail and i was like i'm not going to do anything to go to jail um but
the guy set me up the guy was a government agent that was specifically set me up to go to jail he
told me that i was going to go to jail and i know that there's a lot of people out there that are
fucking pissed at me they want me to suffer they want to punish me and they're pissed off that i
haven't faced any consequences for my action but you're going to punish someone for telling the
truth when it's these people who are fraud wastes and abuse of government resources they're murdering
people like the consequences for that are more dire than having the truth revealed because if the
consequences you know for stealing money from the community the means that the community is undermined
we look at what happened with the coronavirus like we should have had a pandemic team in place
to show us and tell us how we're supposed to deal with the situation and have proper guidelines
but we have people dying all over the place we have hospitals that are overrun and and CEOs that are
well we can't make money off of this so they're they're writing people is getting the coronavirus
but they're not taking care of people because they're getting money from the government like
bear money from the government but they're so greedy that they don't want to spend any of that
money on what it's actually supposed to be spent on right and i had thought that my own reputation
would save me from dire consequences because hey i'm not sitting here trying to incite violence
i'm not sitting here trying to attack people like i'm standing my ground which is what you're supposed
to do right i don't i will defend myself and i will defend others but i will first make sure
that if you are going to be in these positions of power that you will i don't want their job i
want them to do their job right because if they don't do their job right i suffer the consequences
my community suffers the consequences you know and that's not what i want to do i've traveled all
over the world i've seen what happens in places like egypt and europe and even other places in
the united states where corrupt politicians just build concrete of cities and they don't take care
of their people there's homelessness everywhere mayor engen ran on this in 2012 he ran on this
to get to lower homelessness in mazula well homelessness has increased like 400 in mazula
and they've done nothing to to elevate right and so we have all these wealthy people coming in
the person that he is grooming to run for mayor next is a woman from wisconsin named gwen jones
and um gwen jones is what she has done anytime anyone goes to city council and talks out at
city council she looks them up on the internet and will go to the place that they work with and get
them fired she'll be like if you if you're work if you don't fire your worker for what he's done
i'm going to ruin your business she'll do that you know she was the reason she and a guy named
brian von losberg are the reason why i was put in jail in the first place because they um they
actually found my stalker's videos of me and used my stalker's videos as a reason to put me away
which is exciting to me because now my stalker is going to have to
um uh admit in the court of law whether or not he's what he was saying is true or not
and this guy has been inciting violence against me he's actually gotten my he's actually tried to
get veterans to come and kill me and my family um who is this guy that's his name's rick his
name's rick rye nearson and he's got this blog called um pick your battles and uh he says on his
blog pick your battles is a phrase that people who people what people say when they don't battle
but sun sue in the art of war specifically says pick your battles because you only have a limited
amount of energy and where and if you can pick your battles you will be more efficient in how
you use that energy so what is what is his goal in battling you or or trying to go against you
or what is he trying to do he's trying to silence you what he's he's trying he's trying to um so his
wife is a a lawyer who works for raytheon and has worked for johnson and johnson in monsanto
so raytheon is the the company that has the main military contract for the drone operations so he
is uh probably being directly paid by someone to put all this stuff out there and he's i he's
this guy is kind of fucked up because he says that he denied when he was in the drones he denied
in order to shoot um but i'm not if he did that then he did the right thing but i'm not sure this guy
was in the drone program yeah he claims to be okay okay and then uh he drove an armored vehicle
through border patrol coming from new mexico and uh recorded it and said and sued the border patrol
for uh um illegal search and seizure under the united states constitution violating his uh
constitutional amendment rights and uh tried to make himself out to be a whistleblower and then
when i he contacted me and tried to get me to be part of this group called veterans against
police abuse and then tried to set me up with a guide who got a like he sent me down to this um
never met he's a drunk and everything that i've heard about him from people in the program
hate him they say that he's he's one of the worst fucking people that they've ever met but uh he got
me sent me down to this conference for police abuse and wanted me to hang out with these guys
and bought my ticket um to go there and then leave the next day he wanted me to stay there a couple
days and i was like i don't want to do this like i don't feel comfortable and then got mad at me for
not staying there well the people that he wanted me to to hang out with and then ended up being
arrested in downtown austin that night um and then one day he the one day he posted this
thing on facebook how he doesn't believe in free will and he believes that we are all destined to
behave and act a certain way and i i disagreed with him i was like i believe in free will and
i believe that i have the choice to do what i want to do and after i after that he just started
attacking and everything that i did so so this guy is just a narcissist um with deep connect
with connections to deep pockets and um uh has been to really try there's a blog called this ain't
hell which is uh a blog about angry veterans who just hate people um and uh they um they reported
on me as being they said like our contacts inside the drone program say that brandon
bryant's a liar and filthy piece of shit and all this type of stuff and um some of my grandpa's
former wrestlers are rangers and one of them came to me and was like you better shut up and
stop telling lies and i was like i'm not telling a lie and he's like swear on your grandpa's life
and i was like i swear on my grandpa's life i'm not telling a lie and this guy went back to
this group of people and they murdered him for standing up for me
how did the names they murdered a ranger yeah so uh this group of angry veterans who were
who were threatening me and threatening to kill me if i didn't shut up this guy who was
one of my grandpa's former wrestlers came to me and was like if you don't shut up
we're gonna hurt you we're gonna come after you what happened to these people that murdered him
are they in jail they're in prison now what no no he died and he died in a fire house fire
and there is no sort of investigation to homicide no no native american kid
so they didn't they didn't do any investigation and where was this uh here in montana
his name the kid's name was jc witticombe and uh he witticombe yep witticombe uh and he was
murdered he was murdered like um i also had a friend who was part of lol sec in a similar story
well how do you know for sure he was murdered though how do you know these people actually
you're saying they burned his house down with him in it how do you know that though because
these guys these guys were inciting violence against me on their website and blog and this guy
was jc told me all the things that they were going to do they were going to kill me they were
going to torture me and murder me they're going to kill my family as well and uh he stood up
for me and less than a week after that he was killed like these are the types of these you know
people discredit disgruntled veterans but when veterans feel like they've been wronged or when
they have a target like they think i'm a traitor they people call me a traitor or a monster i have
no friends um and so this guy was sticking up for me and they killed him and then after that
happened there was no more talk about me on their blog until rick rinierson wrote a guest
piece for them and started inciting violence against me again uh and uh another guy who's from
lull sec who um i don't know if you know who lull sec is but it was a a group who broke off from
four chan a hacker group uh this guy i knew personally and he was my friend and he was actually
my contact to give me a bunch of information about what was going on he was the one that was
following forums he was the one that was uh when uh the fbi came to my house and told me that if i
didn't shut up and stop speaking then isis would come and kill me and my mother uh he did the research
for me and found out that it wasn't anyone outside of the country that was doing it was christian
patriots who were saying that i was a traitor and i had deserved to die and i had him start
researching information about this and he died a month later under mysterious circumstances
so um you know there's a there's very evil people really evil people in this world um
back in october i had a man throw a knife at me through my open window driving down a vehicle
driving down the interstate or the the freeway um at 70 miles an hour and i've never seen anyone
throw a knife like that except for a marine and it hit me in the head um and the only reason that
it didn't kill me was because it tumbled and the hilt hit me right here in the head and uh i moved
my head so it would have hit me straight in the temple but i moved my head slightly because i saw
coming at me and it hit me right here in the back of the head um so like there are there are
people that are actively trying to kill me in my life and trying to hurt me in my family
because of the things that i've done including members of my own community and even the police
department i mean obviously i can tell you're really angry and this everything that that you're
talking about with the drone program and all your experiences have definitely changed you yeah but
don't you do you think about the fact that maybe talking about things like
even though you may strongly feel like your friend may have been murdered or people you
know may have been murdered but do you think do you ever think about publicly saying that you know
for a fact they were murdered and blaming a specific group of people for that i i worked
with these people maybe i know exactly i i know exactly how they think and operate like i worked
with these people i might have just been a drone operator cameraman but i worked with these people
i was in i was in the direct center of the epicenter of who these people are like i know how
they operate what they do i remember when chelsea manning first blew the whistle that was when i
was still in the program i remember how people fucking hated her i remember how people talked
about her and and uh julie and assange and all that type of stuff they're saying the same thing
about me i've spoken to veterans i have i know veterans in my own community that tell me that if
they ever get me alone they will fucking kill me and they will not have any question about it
and they tell me all the time that you know they think that they'll get away with it because no
one's gonna no one's gonna defend me no no one's no one's gonna protect me um i i tried to live
i tried to live in norway i tried to move to norway and uh even when i found out that the
norwegian the norwegians are helping create the missile parts you know for the health fire missile
and guess who they have working in their factories refugees who are from the very countries that
are affected by the drones are coming in and moving to norway and working in the factories that
build the same weapon systems that destroy their community and as soon as i found out about that
started talking about that over in norway the norwegians beat me up broke my arm stole my son
from me and kicked me out of my country out of their country how long did you how long were
you in norway for i was in norway off and on for about two and a half years oh wow i was trying
to live there i was trying to trying to get a visa and everything and like the woman who got
pregnant with my son sabotaged me she took all my paperwork forged the paperwork and did all sorts
of stuff like it's a mess like like people are purposely interfering in my life like i can't
live a normal life because of all this type of stuff i try i try to live a normal life i didn't
i didn't do this for fame or wealth or or celebrity status i did it because it was the
right thing to do i did it was because it was what i was trained to do even the military kept
telling me integrity first service before sell excellence in all we do always tell the truth
always do the right thing you know the same thing over and over again and i'm doing it and the people
that are doing the wrong thing just so happened to have more power and influence and they can't face
me publicly none of these people i've i've talked to members of congress ted lau who's in charge of
the drone oversight committee you know they don't give a fuck they do not give a fuck how did you
speak to ted lau i went to i went to dc and where where did you talk to did you talk to him in person
in person in his office and what sort of ideas did you express to him and what were his reactions
specifically uh i expressed to him that what we were doing is wrong and we need to curb back and
and start reassessing why we're using this technology and he's like but isn't drones better
at killing people than boots on the ground or an f16 aren't they more precise aren't they more
surgical and he was just he just gave me excuse after excuse for why drones should be used rather
than listening to anything that i had to say um i i tried to remain concerned that you brought to
him my main program was it was it was it collateral damage no my may actually my main concern that i
brought to him was how the people inside the program are being treated and abused and the
consequence of that how it affects you know why people take the shots why people are angry why
people are um and and the leadership and and all that type of stuff like i brought more personal
insider stuff you know what people don't understand is that i've gone up my chain of command like i've
gone up my chain of command in three separate occasions i went to my supervisor i went to my
supervisor supervisor i went to my flight commander i went to my commander i went to my first shirt i
went to my d.o. of two different squadrons and then i went up the civilian chain of command i went
up to i went to senators i went to politicians and none of these people i went to politicians in my
own state john tester and steve danes and asked them if they would address this and if they would
talk to me and help me and support me and they told me directly that they do not support or help
people like me so how it like i'm a i'm a i'm a good american boy i was a good christian boy
who joined the military and i'm doing everything that he taught i did everything right i've done
everything right you know i i'm intelligent i observe i am thoughtful like i'm i'm deliberate
and like i've tried to do everything right and so the only way that i figured out to do anything
right more is to do things on my own and to talk to people like you um actually more i'm more
interested in the academic side of it because i feel like if more people are educated on this
than those people that are educated who are pursuing a route in the legality of this or the
ethics of it will have the clout to stand up eventually to say to stop this you know yeah
i totally i totally think that's the right way to do it i'm i'm happy you're doing it that way
um talking to the right people you know going to the right media outlets expressing yourself
in a thoughtful intelligent way um i i mean i've spoken to the united states secure at the united
nation security council like i spoke directly to the un security council in a private meeting
and told them all my concerns you know but what really what power do they have you know they can
come out with a report that says yeah the united states is wrong and causing devastation all over
the world but ultimately it's the united states that has to do the right thing right and then you
know what is the root cause of this we talked about the art of war right how do you how do you
resolve a conflict like this between nations how do you create peace obviously it's not dropping
bombs and and killing tens of thousands of innocent people but but we the united states
doesn't want to create peace does it it's this is a result of the industry the uh the military
industrial complex and businesses making more money and spending what was the the military
was it like a trillion dollars thing congress passed for military spending yeah recently i mean
the core of the problem is wall street the lobbyist the military industrial complex and
i don't know what the answer to that is uh the answer to that is is to put them all in prison
give them sanders in office yeah well we need we need a second really hard you know we well
we actually i think we need a second nirenberg do you know what the nirenberg trials were
no so the nirenberg trials were what happened after world war two the nazi trials okay so
they were the trials where the nazis were you know i was just following orders right um
there needs to be a precedent there these people need to be held accountable uh it's like the fact
that um you know citizens united how corporations are considered people yes okay so the reason why
that is is because it means that the people that are running the corporations i think corporations
are not people they're vehicles for people to operate in and if corporations are people then
they should be held accountable the the same accountability that an individual is held accountable
for but because they're not they cannot be you know corporations can go under and then they start
up again under a new name right and the people that are running this and making these decisions
are not being held accountable they just want money it's just greed it's the same thing that's
happening in my town like we could be putting money this taxpayer money to better education
better health you know better environment um you know but we have all these people that want to
develop montana because they're coming from silicon valley they're coming from new jersey new york
they're coming from seattle and they want to bring the same environment that they had over there
over to here but we have vastly more limited resources than they do we can't build on top
of a hill here because that means that we have to drill a hole hundreds of meters to get to the
water basin that is that the aquifer that is below that costs more money than actually
building the places that are that are going up but these developers want to build high rise
condominiums here so that they can densify my home but they only doing it for money they're not
they're not taking into consideration the people that originally lived here it's colonization
it's colonialism is what it is it's not even the military industrial complex it's you got
something that i want and i'm going to take it that's what it is and these people are evil
these people are evil like there's no other word to describe it they're evil do you think well
joe biden was elected president today was sworn in do you think there's any chance that he could
help steer this ship away from the rocks or that administration at all i mean what do you think the
difference is going to be do you have any kind of do you have is there any glimpse of optimism inside
you um i feel like as much as i feel very proud that camala harris is our first female vice president
and not hillary clinton i feel more attrepidation that we are headed towards a police state a
fascist police state rather than more freedom um i whistle blew during the obama administration
when joe biden was vice president and unless joe biden takes a stand against the military
industrial complex and being like we need to pull back we need to we need to like we're in a climate
crisis right now we don't even have 50 years left on this planet if we don't get our shit together
and there are people that wanting to make trillions of dollars jeff bezos has made more money in the
last year than he's made his entire rest of his career and yet we have people starving in on the
street in a homeless population that is growing exponentially we have more than four house empty
houses per homeless people in the united states and yet it's more profitable to keep those houses
empty for the banks than to allow people to go in and move in right we have a we have a humanitarian
crisis that is building that will probably gulf yemen pretty soon and yemen and the stuff in the
middle east was just practice for these people to come back and do it over here that's how i feel
about it no sort of optimism for the future um well if if people will take a stand then yes
and not in the not um my you know i i listened to people to trump supporters to try to understand
them and the qanon supporters and even the anti-vaxxers and sounds like those kind of qanon
supporter are the same type of people that have the blog the guy who is against you at that that
sounds like the kind of person who was some of those people that stormed the capital last week
yep yeah and actually ryan nirson is a is a qanon and trump supporter as well
and uh even the people so the people that got me to speak up against the city council
i find out later that they're trump supporters and qanon supporters as well conspiracy theorists
and so i you know i'm not going to say make speculation and be like all these people are
connected but there are very similar there are many similarities that i observe in between behaviors
and actions and my military training i spent eight months in training for observation you know
that's what my original job was before drones was being a intelligence opera operator that observes
right observes and disseminates and i feel like that was some of the best training that i could
have ever gotten in my life and on top of all the the healing and self-work that i've done
it helps me like i can tell the similarities between the actions that are going on
and i can make those connections just like i had been in training you know these guys are
you know when people act in secret eventually these things will come out you know eventually
people who act in secret and think they're gonna wait get away they're gonna get lazy and something
is gonna happen that is gonna expose it but we see what's happening right now things are being
exposed all the time and so more misinformation is being thrown out there and these people no
longer care if they're being exposed because they can say something else and still get away with it
because no one has the power to actually stand up and do anything about it who's gonna stand up to
the military industrial complex are you right you know is your average uh a viewer gonna just
watch your videos and and you know say well that's good information i'm gonna do something about it
i've spoken to millions of people all over the world and one of the things that i was talking
about in europe is being like you know if you think drones are a problem you can get involved
to do something about it but that's probably not going to be your thing you know there's
going to be a crisis that you are going to have to address it's going to be different from the
drones but i can tell you this this is what i did when i ran into my crisis and this is what i think
that you can do i think that you can make a stand i think that you can be like yeah this is right
and this is wrong we all know what's right and wrong what is in us what is in this portion of us
can tell us what is right and wrong if we are curious if we want to know if we want to be at
peace with ourselves in the world around us we just have to make a stand for what is right
we don't have to fix it because eventually if enough people get there the fixing will be done
right we just have to make a stand and make be like enough's enough enough is enough we don't
have to do the capital riot shit we don't have to storm the capital we don't have to lynch anyone
we don't have to do that we just have to we want we should want justice not vengeance
you know buddha says this about vengeance he says if you want vengeance dig two graves
oh yeah right we don't want vengeance we do not want vengeance christ says this you will lose
everything that you love and you will keep everything that you hate right so we must recognize
that everything in our life that we love eventually that we will lose it and if we hate someone
thing we will carry it with us but we don't want to carry hate no hate it i've carried hate i know
what hate feels like it's sickening it's tiring it makes you feel worthless it makes you feel powerless
that's what hate does you know anger leads to hate hate leads to the dark side right and it
creates internal suffering for yourself absolutely absolutely and what are we going to be attached
to are we going to be attached to love you know are we going to be attached to that concept love
comes from within love comes from with it's easy to love someone that loves you back it's harder to
love someone that you despise right but the love only spares fruit if you give it to someone
who is acting unlovable kindness only works towards people who are being unkind
right so what are we supposed to do i've i've gone all the way to the fucking top of the
chain of command basically i know president obama and biden and trump know who i am i know that for
a fucking fact but have they done anything no so where do i need to go the people the people need
to do it the people need to stand up for themselves the people deserve health care health care isn't
the right health care is not or health care is a right health care is not something that is like
you have to beg for that should be base level because who builds all the stuff who buys all the
stuff the people no one's going to build anything no one's going to invent anything no one's going to
to live a life that is meaningful and beneficial if they're sick
totally agree man i totally agree all this money needs to be we need to be focusing on ourselves
and our own communities and and bettering each other with our health care we need to
make ourselves and our children give them better educations and everything we need to
we need to heal ourselves before we try to change the world absolutely absolutely and
if we do it to ourselves the world will change right right if we if we take a look in ourselves
i i don't know if you know anything about like the eightfold path the buddhist eightfold path
talks about right thought um actually i'm going to reference the bog of agita because that's
that's actually my favorite i i might not like religion but i love spiritual scripture like
i just i love it the poet the poetic there's a lot to learn from religion there's a there's a a lot of
real life real life references in religion that i think are very relevant to absolutely to human
being and suffering absolutely and one of the things i like about the bog of agita is the
bog of agita takes place in the middle of a battlefield you know prince arjun and his brothers
show up at this battlefield after 13 years in exile to take back their inheritance and arjun
has this moment of crisis because the people that took his inheritance of the people that trained him
and raised him and he loves and he's like how am i supposed to fight these guys how am i supposed
to fight people that i'm supposed to give my reverence and love to i would rather have a beggars
crust and have them murder me unarmed and unresisting and to soil my life with their blood right and so
what does christmas say christian says well you're here to take back what's yours you might as well
do it and here's the right way be a man of wisdom arjun wisdom is my i love men of wisdom the most
be a wise man but if you have to take the path of right action what is right action if you eat
of the fruits of the path of right action in the path of wisdom they are the same you know there is
no difference wisdom is learning from other people's mistakes wisdom is learning the mistakes
without having to make them your own but if you have to make your own do so with the right mindset
do so with a pure heart and you will make no mistake that's that's super strong man it is
so so it's it's what my grandfather told me all the time it's what my mother taught me growing up
i had a one of my friends is a university professor and she works at MIT now and she
worked i wrote a book a chapter in her book age in the life of drone war life in the age of drone
warfare and she called me up one day after i was i was having like a mental breakdown after i got
attacked like i was like like people are trying to actually actively kill me and hurt me and she's
like she's like people need to learn hear what you have to say and learn from you and i was like
how am i supposed to teach people the things that i learned when i was a toddler you know i remember
the first time that i lied my and i got caught for it my grandpa says the reason why you don't lie
isn't because you're going to go to hell if you lie the reason why you don't lie is because it's
so hard to track a story that you make up you know if you have to tell the truth you can tell the
truth and you only have to suffer the consequence of the truth if you tell a lie and you are caught
you have to suffer the consequences of both the lie and the truth right which is hell
which is hell you know hell is within here's a story for you that i love
actually one of the inmates told me this in jail he was uh this is i'll tell you this story fully
so i get into jail and they had been plastering me all over the news and these guys had seen me
yell at the city council on the news and this guy comes on video yeah it's on video oh it's great
so this guy comes up to me and like i'm i'm kind of like sitting there's like someone's
going to try to make me their bitch right this guy sits next to me he's like he's like hey i want
you to read this and he's like in my face and i'm like okay this guy's going to make me his bitch
right so i read this story and it's the story of heaven and hell and this samurai warrior
goes to this zen master and says master teach me everything that you know about heaven and hell
and the master looks at him and says teach you about heaven and hell i doubt that you can even
keep the blood rust off your sword you ignorant stupid fool why should i teach you anything about
heaven and hell and goes off and starts insulting him and the samurai is kind of like whoa this guy is
fucking on my shit he's insulting my honor and he pulls his sword with rage and fury and he's about
to kill the master and the master looks at him calmly and says that is hell and the samurai
drops his sword and falls to his knees and begs for forgiveness and with compassion the master
looks at him and says that is heaven the samurai picks up his sword and she is it and walks away
and he realized that the master told him everything that he needs to know about it yeah what what is
that from again um it's just a it's just a zen story so this guy had this guy he was a pretty
tough dude but he he was like on his own path of searching right and he told me that i i looked
like a sorcerer who was casting spells at the city council but um he had all this he he would
take all these clips of wisdom and put them in this book and you know he would even rip out pages
of novels and stuff and one of the um one of the actual stories that he had me read i actually wrote
it i i had i wrote this journal um story when i was in jail and he wrote this thing about pietus
or it was this is from uh king arthur book um and i compared my grandpa my grandfather to pietus
i i can just okay and uh this is this is what it says this is actually um one of my favorite
things that i've ever read and i need to find the book that this was so i can read it and i think
i read it when i was in high school that's why it's familiar to me but um i'll just uh read this
section if you don't mind yeah for sure um some say that this is a fight for our lives but it
isn't it is a fight for life itself on the mat the only death is the end of the match
heralded by the whistle of the referee in the world it is for order injustice and all the ordinary
and simple things the little things that we have been deprived of for so long the things that any
decent and healthy society should secure that the truth of america never has a guarantee of food
a safe place to rest roads that any person may travel with security from thriving town to city
and a country into the wilderness and back again homes of wealthy folk where some grace of living
may grow and mature free from greed and desire giving scope to any who wish to hone their craft
and those who simply seek to learn where anyone can read a book on any philosophy faith creator
science and have a healthy discussion of the thoughts and emotions they provoke where lovers
can grow old together watching their children and their children's children thrive to learn the
gentler arts of living a place for truth justice and understanding replace violence intrigue and
penny tribal jealousy that's my dream for montana and that's what we are fighting for
martin luther king spoke of a similar dream while he yet lived i get to dreaming of a world where
men walk simply without deceit or stutterfuge a kindlier world than our own that we know right now
where the strong defend the weak instead of the greedy and to have some manners is not thought
to beneath the warrior's dignity truth justice and mercy one cannot impose these things they must
grow out of a man's striving for himself we wonder why evil and wickedness exists in the world
those that follow the church or the dying god say that the world is evil because of one great sin
i grew up in that religion but i can no longer prescribe to its remedies
though we take the finest seed and sift the entire universe through it no molecule of love
can ever be found for a man who is not known to spare knows himself and no man who does not
know himself can find the truth the rhythm of the universe and the love that sustains it
whether it is on the mat or the battlefield or an everyday life we must be ready to enter
hell's gate and confront all that which lay on the other side as dante says in his inferno all
hope abandons ye who entry and this is how courage is born there is no courage without fear the hero
of time taught me that the bravest is often the most frightened and if we are afraid of something
that means we must confront it in that respect solitude is often fears companion to be afraid
is to be alone but it is only then a person attains that self-discovery pain defines and
exacts the price of wisdom and the price is worth paying because it must be paid through
through courage one earns honor and in all of life my heart my mind my body and my soul courage
is the principal thing shakespeare says that all the world is a stage on earth every man plays a
part in that part is appointed to him by the powers that be before he was even born in one
incarnation a slave in another king in another a common soldier a priest a merchant even a politician
in each park as he plays it out in life for ill or well he learned something he needs to know until
all good and evil have been experienced and the soul can distinguish for itself between the two
and so grows towards the perfection that is man's final goal a king is not greater than
a slave for both of men in fact a king's role is more difficult for what a great man does others
will follow it is of equal importance that they should act their part so that they played the
mirror's truth this spirit needs to be awoken set to a standard create a pattern that even the
dullest can comprehend and strive to achieve a promise is a promise once given it must be kept
lived by or be forfeit of honor into the noble dishonor is worse than death the old faith of
the druids holds that once a vow is made it cannot be unmade without damage to the soul
in this greater cosmos we are the individual cosmos in the triad of the bards obiates and
druids there are three things no man can alter the stars in their course the flow of the tides
and the pattern that unrolls from the given word by these things taught to me that i have learned
through my own experience i live in service given without grudging and without hope of reward
through the quality of my heart and the respect earned by it we must honor our own gods and
give respect to other men's we must seek truth and speak it always even to our own harm and hurt
we must be worthy of trust and trust one another i would have us use our strength to protect those
that cannot protect themselves the old the weak the infirm the widows and the fatherless even those
that we hate so long as it treads the path of right action we must have the manners of kings
equal to any in any land and so above those things which lead into man's spirit anger love and greed
well look brandon i think that was a super strong way to end this thing the stuff that you're
sharing with the world is super powerful powerful and important and i'm super grateful for you coming
on here and and sharing those experiences with me today thank you very much tell people that are
listening and or watching where they can find more of the stuff that you're doing or follow
more of your work um since i was being attacked and harassed and i had no defense i i put fire to
my social media and i've put my own personal projects to the side um i would recommend everyone
just watching anything if they're curious watch everything even the stuff my stalker puts out
you know watch that stuff watch what people are putting out there to hurt others you know
search for your name brandon bryant on yep okay just say brandon bryant drone okay right and that
will lead them to anything um uh there my documentary is on netflix in full itself it is the drone
documentary um by tanya hessenschei a norwegian director and producer um i think that that you
know when when that movie first came out that was the first time i ever felt that i did something
right with this so um there's plenty of interviews plenty of talks um i'm always open for civil
discussion if people want to contact me on my facebook but i can definitely tell you that most
people get on facebook to attack me and say nasty things about me and if you do that then i will
respond in kind should we link your facebook uh in the description of the video you can if you
want do you would you like me to sure okay yeah i can my other so my twitter has been suspended
because i was speaking out against the establishment uh my instagram is private because people were
reporting that um so all i have is that facebook left um i also have an email um you know if people
want to email me i think it's out there on the internet they can um but if if they're curious
they can but i just want to mostly encourage people to stand up for themselves you know and and
reflect on what's right you know get rid of emotion get rid of thought and just do what is right
you know love one another you know even when it's hard especially when it's hard
