It's an honor to have you here.
I really appreciate you coming down and doing the show.
You have a phenomenal body of work behind you from Phenomenon, all the works before
that, your latest film.
It's totally, absolutely mind-bending, some of the stuff that you do.
For people that aren't familiar, I doubt there's any, but for people that don't know
or aren't familiar with your work, just give me a brief background on how you got into
this subject, filmmaking.
How brief.
Yeah, we got plenty of time.
Okay, because I could actually give you a slightly less brief version, because it's
kind of funny how I got into it all.
Were you into filmmaking?
Were you originally just a filmmaker first and just got obsessed with this topic of UFOs
and UFOs?
Kind of, kind of.
So because I can tell just by your work, I mean, just the way you produce your films,
the style and everything, I'm a big fan of that in a totally separate bubble of the topic.
Like, if you even separate the UFO topic, which is fascinating, the style of your films and
the way you cut them and the way you shoot them, I'm a huge fan of that.
Well, thank you.
So I strive for credibility with the Phenomenon, because I used to always tell people, they're
like, oh, you got to add the green smoke and the, you know, the cheesy lights.
And I'm like, no, you don't.
The story itself, any UFO story is so fascinating.
So otherworldly, excuse the pun there, but that I would always say, if you could add
credibility to a fascinating story, like someone coming in contact allegedly with a UFO, then
that will succeed, you know, because that's the stories already so incredible and already
so unbelievable that if you could add that element of credibility to your production,
then that's a winning, you know, recipe.
And so I developed that very, very early on.
I remember having like shouting matches with the two older guys that I was working with.
They're like, you don't know anything about filmmaking.
We're going to put, you know, you need to add, overproduce and put cheesy effects in it.
Just the stuff that was just makes you want to puke in a bucket.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, we talked about this before.
There's a lot of shows out there on the big networks that they go so far overboard with
the graphics, the motion graphics and all that stuff and the production of it.
And it's just so for people like, I don't know, for normal people, what it's like,
for people like you and me, it's just you can see right through it.
It just makes it, I don't think it does the subject any favors.
I find it unwatchable when I look at it, because if the if the story is not
compelling enough to carry itself and you have to add those so-called bells and
whistles or whatever to keep people's attention, then then don't do that story.
You know, right.
But let me back up.
My father was a mainstream journalist.
His name was Charles Fox.
He wrote, he lived, we lived on the East Coast.
He wrote for Car and Driver Magazine in the 60s.
And he was born in England and he got multiple sclerosis when I was born.
And so I, as I grew up, I became sort of his, his legs, his secretary, his
chauffeur, his assistant.
And I traveled all around and got to do these really cool stories watching my
father perform as a journalist.
And it was a lot of hard work.
I remember thinking like all the writing for the stories and all the copy
editing that goes into it, it was more work than you'd expect when it's just
words. And so I kind of was exposed to journalism at an early age, more so
than I would have been because of my father's condition.
And people would be like, oh, you're so lucky you get to travel around the
world and do all these cool things.
I'm like, you try traveling with a quadriplegic sometime, OK?
And see how, how hard that is, you know, because it's basically like, you know,
having a, you know, a 200 pound baby trying to make a living.
And I'm not referring to my dad as a baby.
He was an amazing guy.
But I had to take care of all of his needs because he couldn't move.
But he would travel and he was incredibly driven and he was hilarious
and fun to be around.
And so we had a kind of a different relationship, father-son relationship
very early on because of his dependence on me and my dependence on him.
It was a co-dependency thing.
But we got along great and we had a lot of fun.
We traveled all around the world and I was driving on the auto bomb
and I was like 15, you know, basically doing stuff that I shouldn't have been doing
till I was I remember driving to go see this guy, Dan Gurney, was a race car driver.
He there was films about him, even on now, I think Mustang versus Ford
or no Ford versus Ferrari. Anyway.
My dad goes, God, my legs are really bad today.
I can't drive, you know, and I was like 12 or 13.
We're in Southern California.
And he goes, you're going to have to take the wheel.
I said, Dad, I've never driven on the freeway.
He goes, just keep on there.
Forget this. He goes, just keep it between the lines.
So I've got this big band of my dad in his chair.
And I'm like, you know, because with multiple sclerosis,
he couldn't he got to the point where he couldn't walk anymore,
but he could still like move his legs a little bit on a on a good day
where he could activate the accelerator.
Eventually he lost all movement.
But there was a period of, I don't know, five or 10 years where on a good day,
things were going well.
You know, he could drive if you could get him behind the wheel.
He could push the accelerator pedal and the brake pedal and all that stuff.
But I just remember like and then we pulled up to interview this guy, Dan Gurney
and who won the Le Mans, I think, in the 60s.
And he goes, how old is your son?
Little tiny guy driving, you know.
So my point is, is that I got to
share of intimately share my father's career as a journalist
very early on because of his his condition.
And so I remember finding the video camera,
like just discovering the video camera.
What a great tool that was for instant playback
and communication and documentation of stuff.
And it seemed, to me, a really nice alternative
than all the hard work that my father used to have to do with writing stories.
I mean, I was shocked at how much work went into writing an article.
Of course, later I realized, you know, once you document things,
you've got to edit them in the edit room and that process is very tedious.
But in any case, I picked up a video camera and
I thought, wow, this is great.
I could really get into this, you know, to documenting stories.
I did I did some PSAs, public service announcements, just basic editing.
And then a very good friend of mine turned me on.
And I'll give you guys, I'm not going to give you the super long version of it
because, you know, you guys would, your eyes would glaze over.
But it turned me on to UFOs.
And he was like, this is back in the 90s.
And it wasn't really out that much like the early 90s, you know.
And and and I went to high school with this guy.
And I remember thinking, boy, too bad this friendship's over
because he's lost his mind.
And he was talking about Roswell.
He goes, oh, you haven't heard about Roswell, UFO, the crash and the recovery.
And I just dismissed him as quickly as you could.
I mean, I literally was like, what a pity, my very dear friend, Rene.
I mean, I have to write our friendship off because he's lost his mind.
And then I was.
I was apprenticing at a video production company in Northern California.
And I started talking to this guy, Richard Van Sickle, who's running the company.
I had a lot of respect for I looked up to him a lot.
And I said, yeah, my buddy Rene is starting to believe in UFOs.
And Roswell, he goes, oh, you don't know about that.
I was like, no, I don't know Roswell.
I mean, an alien spaceship crash.
He goes, yeah, you didn't know about that.
I was like, no, how am I supposed to know about that, you know?
And so I started to look into it.
And I realized, you know, wow, the military really did put out an official statement
that this happened.
And then I went to a couple of conferences and I met some ex-military guys that were
talking about, you know, gun cam footage of UFOs in the fifties.
And I thought, wow, these guys are really credible.
Maybe there's something to this.
And I was just kind of kind of interested.
And so I was like, I got my video camera.
I'm going to make a documentary on UFOs.
And and my father was horrified.
I mean, he was like, son, please come back.
Like, what happened?
What did I do wrong?
You know, and he was begging me.
He said, literally, I'll never forget it.
He goes, it's a dead end street, son.
There's nothing to it.
It's going nowhere.
Don't waste your life.
And I thought my father's been so supportive of so many things for so long.
He used to say to me when I was a kid, I don't care if you want to be a garbage
man or if you want to be a teacher or whatever it is that makes you happy.
That's what I will support always.
That's the only thing that matters in life.
And yet this he was so opposed to it.
And he had members because I was born in England.
He had members of my family writing letters to say, please, your father's
begging you to reconsider it.
Don't waste your life, you know, kind of thing.
And I'm like a tourist.
I'm kind of stubborn.
And I thought, well, I'll show him.
And so I probably worked like 10 times harder than I've ever worked in my life
just to kind of show him, you know, and it was hard.
Boy, it was really hard.
And it took me about four and a half years.
And I got some incredible interviews.
And the final coup for me was I got to I got the opportunity to do a phone
interview with Apollo 14 astronaut Edgar Mitchell.
And that really kind of solidified
the credibility of the film.
It kind of stepped it up a few notches.
And I went to Roswell for the 50th anniversary towards the tail end of production.
And I got some some never before seen testimony
from alleged army officials that were involved in Roswell.
Because like in 1997, that was the tail end of when the people are dying off.
You know what I mean? Was Roswell like it was it had been 50 years.
So the people that were, you know, they were like in their excuse me,
they were in their like 20s, they would have been in their 70s.
So 50 years was kind of the last the 50th anniversary of Roswell.
You could actually go there and meet a handful of people
that were directly involved with the incident.
They're all dead now, pretty much.
I don't think there's anybody left alive.
So anyway, I went there and I and I and I made this film
and I ended up selling it to Discovery Channel.
And I was so burnt out by the process.
I had no idea what it took to make a documentary
and how long it took and how much work it took and all the b-roll and the editing
and the writing and the researching.
My God, you know, it just really kind of caught me off guard.
But it was about four and a half years and I sold Discovery Channel
and everyone was kind of shocked, my dad included.
And I thought, well, never again am I doing any UFOs.
I've, you know, this is this was it.
And then and if I'm going on too long, just just tell me.
No, you're not just trying to tell you how I got involved with this whole thing.
And I never intended to be where I'm at today, nearly 30 years later
of still producing documentaries on UFOs
because never in my wildest dreams did I ever think I'd be that guy.
And I never wanted to be that guy.
But when the film sold to Discovery,
everyone was shocked, myself included, and doors started to open
like, oh, here's an independent guy who treated the subject matter seriously,
who didn't ridicule and add green smoke to production.
Hey, if you want to meet with anyone, meet with this guy.
And so suddenly doors started open.
I was invited to Russia.
And I thought, gosh,
I can't not go to Russia and meet with like Pavel Popovich, Cosmonaut.
I went to Star City.
I got to meet with generals.
This is the 90s.
And, you know, OK, well, I guess I'm going to do another film on UFOs.
How could I not?
Like, I mean, these doors are opening.
And so I worked another and raising the money was always incredibly challenging.
Oh, my God, I learned how to operate cameras
and how to edit and how to do the sound, all those things completely on my own
because I couldn't possibly afford to pay somebody else to do any of it.
And so even though I sold my film to Discovery, I didn't make I would have
made more flippant burgers at the end of the day than, you know what I mean?
So anyway, so then I I made another film called Out of the Blue.
And it was it was really funny.
When do you know a film is done?
You know, and it's a tough moment to when do you actually realize
hey, this film is done because I never really feel satisfied
with any work I ever do.
It always feels like I can make it better.
So I'm looking at Out of the Blue.
We're about five years into production.
And my buddy, this guy Boris Zuboff, was kind of my mentor.
He was in a fetal position crying and his wife and his wife is not really funny.
But his wife is like, you're killing my husband.
Stop it with this movie.
Stop it.
You're killing him, you know, and he's like, oh, because I'm pushing so hard
everybody, right? And there was not enough money.
And so I was like, all right, well, I guess I'll put out, you know, out of the blue.
And then I sold out of the blue to NBC Universal and aired on sci fi.
It was again, just a total coup, you know, like I just completely locked out
right place, right time. I don't know.
Sky Larry Lansman at sci fi saw it and he was like, you know, came in at me.
I didn't even have a lawyer.
I didn't have an agent.
And I have these like people at acquisitions at NBC Universal ask me, so, kid,
like, what do you want for your movie?
I'm like, I have no idea.
Like what I I didn't know how to negotiate with people.
I know what I was doing, you know.
And so I sold it. I sold it.
But I sold it reluctantly because I felt like it wasn't the film that I.
That I envisioned when I set out when you embark on a certain project,
you have a vision of how you want something to be, you know, whether you're
building a house or designing a bar or doing a podcast, whatever it is, excuse me.
And it didn't mean it never materialized.
You know what I mean?
Like I just I was I was unsatisfied when it came out.
So I sold the film.
I did OK.
Probably again, flipping burgers at the end of the day.
You tallyed up all the hours and in about
about three years after the film came out, I got a letter from NBC
Universal and they said they're not going to renew the broadcast option.
So guess what?
I owned the movie again.
So I think, well, I'm going to make a checklist of all the things
that I was unhappy about.
I'm going to redo this film.
And I remember at the time, my partner was like, you know, what are you doing?
We talk about redo the movie.
We did that movie. We sold it. It's done.
I was like, yeah, but there's never the movie I wanted it to be.
So they were like, you're out of your mind.
OK, go sell crazy somewhere else.
We're done.
And so I ended up having to bring in new investors and new partners
and to redesign out of the blue and raise more money.
So I made a checklist of things that I wanted to accomplish
for the film out of the blue to revise it, make a director's cut.
And that was about 10 people long.
And the ninth one, one was like I wanted to get more direct
eyewitness accounts of the Rendlesham Forest case back in December
of 1980 that happened in England at a joint U.S. British air base
that housed nuclear weapons that had a UFO land.
It's a fascinating case.
You can look it up, Bentwaters, Rendlesham Forest.
And then there was a very, very compelling close encounter,
like a mass sighting that happened in 1997 in March in Arizona.
And it's commonly referred to as the Phoenix lights.
If you talk to witnesses, they say, don't call it the Phoenix lights.
Call it the massive, you know, UFO flyover because the object was not lights.
It was a massive boomerang shaped object that was from one to two miles across.
And that's something that you wanted to include in that film.
Well, I investigated the case and I did include it in the film.
But in I think it was like June, the sighting happened in March 13th, 1997.
And then I think it was June.
There was mounting pressure from the people, from witnesses.
It got like a national story.
And the governor of Arizona, the then governor of Arizona,
Fype Simonton, was like, you know, we're going to get to the bottom of it.
We're going to find out what it was.
I'm contacting the local Luke Air Force base and the Pentagon, blah, blah, blah.
Isn't that the guy?
Is that the guy who like walked out of the press conference, press conference
dressed like an alien or something?
So a couple of hours later, he has one of his aides.
And I was investigating this case when this was all going down.
You know, I was into production on these either 50 years
or out of the blue, probably out of the blue.
But in any case, I was in in deep investigating this case.
And that little so so Fype Simonton, the governor, then governor was like,
we're going to get to the bottom of it.
And he was serious like he really was.
You could look at the press conference.
It's in out of the blue.
And and a couple of hours later, he has this unscheduled press conference.
And he has one of his aides dressed up in an alien suit
and makes a joke out of the whole thing.
And I'll tell you, man, the witnesses that all the witnesses that I were talking
and they were pissed, they're like, I put you in office,
you know, we're your constituents.
How dare you like make fun of us like that?
What's wrong? You know, and it was it was this object was witnessed
by a lot of people because everybody was out under the night sky
trying to get a glimpse of the hellbob comment at the time.
So in this object flew from the north all the way across to the south
of the entire state of Arizona.
It's a fascinating case. Anyway.
My goal was to get Fype Simonton on camera and find out, you know,
why the hell he did what he did, right?
So this all takes many, you know, years to do all this stuff.
And so to my complete
astonishment or shock,
I got nine out of the 10 objectives done for that film,
including an interview with Governor Fype Simonton.
He was no longer governor at the time, but I got an interview with the governor.
Fife, nobody ever got an interview with Fife, right?
So I'm driving down.
I'll never forget I had one of my partners and he's he's like,
well, what's Fife going to say?
I said, who cares what he's going to say?
You know, we got the former governor of Arizona willing to meet with us.
Like, you know, so.
On the way down to meet to meet with him in Sandy in Santa Barbara, he was like,
well, I have a house in Arizona, but I also live in in Santa Barbara.
If you want to come down and and and meet me in Santa Barbara, say that.
That'll be a little easier for me.
So sure, I'll meet with you.
So on the way down to meet with the former governor of Arizona, Fife Simonton, I.
Pulled the car over the side of the road, got out my pocket, tape recorder,
and I contacted one of the witnesses, woman, Stacey Rhodes,
who literally was driving on Interstate 10 with her daughter, Emily,
and they got out of the car and they said there were all the cars
stopped in both sides and it was like maybe seven o'clock in the evening,
six, thirty seven, something like this.
And she said that every car on Interstate 10 between
Phoenix and Tucson were stopped and they got out of the car
and this massive boomerang shaped thing like this, like a big chevron
floating like a city super slowly.
We were just down there.
Just looking at it as it floated right over huge like a mile.
She goes, if I, excuse me, if she goes, if I held up and opened up newspaper
like this directly over my head, I could not have blocked out this craft.
That's how big it was. OK.
And a lot of people saw it.
I mean, I interviewed people all across the state of Arizona and saw this thing.
So in any case, I pull over, I was like, you're not going to believe.
And she was furious at the stunt that the governor had pulled.
So I was like, you're not going to believe who I'm going to go meet with right now.
And she's like, who? Take a guess. She couldn't.
I said, Governor Fife Simonton, is there anything you'd like to say to him?
She's like, you damn right, I would like to say, well, hold on,
let me get my tape recorder out.
And so I pressed record and I recorded her statement
and it was directed directly at the governor and who better to ask a question
than a former constituent of his and witness to the event.
So I get into the interview and I thought,
well, I'm not going to like spring this on him right away
because I'm worried this guy is going to just, you know, get up and walk out.
So let me get what I can get out of him.
And then when the time is right, I'll put the squeeze on him
and I'll do a little bit of an ambush with this.
You know, so the interview is going great.
He was like, you know, he talked about the reason why he pulled the stunt
that he was just trying to find some like trying to calm the people down.
A little bit of levity is the word he used.
Didn't mean to like make fun of anybody, you know, this kind of thing.
So then I I said, hey, Governor, I've got a little something I'd like to share with you.
It's one of your former constituents and a witness to the event.
And she'd like to ask you a question, if you don't mind.
He's kind of squirmed in his seat a little bit and, you know, he's like,
oh, it's been a while since I've been kind of, you know, ambushed or whatever.
So I pressed play and she kind of lays into him pretty heavily.
Like, how dare you like, you know, make fun of all the witnesses.
There were thousands of us, you know,
it was a serious event and we voted you an office and you just like, you know,
left us out to dry and the one representative, Francis Barwood,
a city councilwoman, you made fun of her when she was to try to make serious
inquiries into the whole thing and he sat there for a moment and I thought,
well, I'd probably blew it.
He's probably going to get up and leave to my amazement.
He admits right there that for the first time ever that he, too, as a former
Air Force pilot, he too saw this thing and he knew immediately it was not of this
earth. And he said that because of the sheer size of it, because it was so big,
this big B shaped thing.
He said, this is nothing terrestrial that could that could be that big and fly
that quietly and, you know, all this stuff.
And so I knew the story was going to be big, but I didn't realize how big and
that story came out as I wasn't even done yet with the revision of Out of the Blue.
And we were just catapulted all over the headlines.
I was on Larry King seven, eight, nine times.
I was on every talk show, nightline, date line, you name it, right?
Which is great. I mean, you get, you know, you get in the spotlight a little bit
and you can make some moves.
You got a little influence, you know, people are watching you suddenly.
And so I'm probably definitely boring you guys to death.
No, no, no, not at all.
You go there.
So so anyway, because I'm just on this ride, right?
I don't really know where I'm going.
You know, I don't know where this is leading.
I'm, you know, I'm just a curious Joe.
I'm just a guy that really wanted to know what the hell was going on.
Yeah. You know.
And so I was just asking a lot of questions and every now and again,
I got some traction now.
I'm in the limelight and I'm on Larry King with with with the former governor
of Arizona. We were on together, you know what I mean?
And I'm on all these shows.
I mean, I had like my phone memory was full.
I mean, they were called. Everybody was calling me Jay Leno, like you name it.
So anyway, I figured, well, hey, let me capitalize on this.
Well, then I decided, God, you know,
I might not ever have the spotlight like this again.
I should do something big.
I should capitalize on this moment.
So I I I woke up in middle of the night
and and I saw this press conference in.
I know it sounds crazy, but I saw this press conference
and I don't think I had like two dimes rub together at the time.
I think it maybe had like 500 bucks in my bank account, Max.
And I had a little room on my credit card.
I was living with my sister at the time.
And I I woke up in the middle of the night
and I had this dream.
I had this kind of like I was called.
I just saw this this this event at the National Press Club,
where I got military and government officials from all these different
countries to come and testify and do this thing, right?
At the National Press Club in Washington, D.C.
Well, I had the attention of a lot of the media at that point.
I had their numbers in my pockets.
And I I I think I called my contact at Larry King
and I said, hey, I'm thinking about doing this event.
I didn't give him any details and I had no money.
I was like, I think about doing this event at the National Press Club.
And if I did it, would you guys cover it?
And they said, yeah, we'll give you a full hour.
I said, fantastic.
So then I contacted this woman, Leslie Kane,
who helped break the story of the New York Times article right in 2017.
Right. It catapulted this whole phenomenon of the front page of the New York Times.
And that was like the secret Pentagon program.
So I contacted Leslie. This is way years ago.
I said, Leslie, I'm thinking about doing this thing.
And she'd seen me in the news all over the place.
She knew that I had a little traction and and she's like, well, hold on.
Well, we got to think about this. We got to hold on.
We got to strategize. I don't know. I need to think about it.
I might need to think for a month or two. I said, look, I'm doing this
and I'm doing it starting now. Are you in or you out?
And she's like, oh, my God, I'm in.
And so so now all I needed was the money to put the fed on.
So then I was like, OK, so now I got the media coverage and now I got this.
Now I need some money.
So I contacted the National Press Club, but I booked the ballroom,
which is the biggest, most fancy room they had.
And I had to put $500 down to hold it.
But it was like a thousand dollars to book it.
So I called the National Press Club that morning
and I would take a $500 deposit.
Well, I had $500 on my credit card, so I booked it.
And I heard my sister in the other room, she goes, did you just book
the National Press Club? I was like, yeah.
She goes, uh, how are you going to afford to ever do that?
I was like, I don't know. I'll figure it out, you know?
And and and because I was getting
a lot of media coverage that really helped,
I was able to buy out my two other partners
and bring in new investment.
And for the money that I bought them out
and that I sold the their share of the of the production,
the the new production, I was able to
fund the National Press Club.
In fact, I was a little short.
Somebody ended up sending me some.
My point is that, you know, you have an idea.
You might not have the resources, but
an idea could lead to something big
because a lot of people are too scared to go for it
because failure is kind of a scary thing, right?
Especially if you're like at the poker table
and you push it on your chips in a one bet, you know?
But, you know, I remember at one point
having a bit of a meltdown.
And by the way, my father had slowly started to come around
during this and I took him to a when I got back from Russia,
I went and met with Mercury astronaut, Gordon Cooper,
who was an iconic figure of my dad's generation,
who was the last American astronaut to go up in space alone.
And, you know, everybody knew of my dad's generation,
knew who Mercury astronaut Gordon Cooper.
He was in the right stuff.
And I brought my father along to that interview.
And Gordon Cooper had talked about
a landed flying saucer that was filmed
at Edwards Air Force Base circa 1965.
And how he chased these discs and fighter jets over Germany
in the, I think it was late, late, late fifties.
I think like, 57, something like that.
But in any case, my dad was like,
God, here's a man whose credibility is on the line.
He's got nothing.
He's not getting paid.
He's got everything to lose, nothing to gain.
Why on earth would he make these stories up?
That was a bit of a turning point for him.
And he also saw, you know, some of the success.
And I was, you know, things were really taking off.
And my dad definitely started to recon,
more than reconsider, he became a very big supporter of mine.
And he was very, very excited about what was happening.
It was all just kind of unfolding, you know,
as it was happening,
but getting back to the National Press Club event.
So we did that.
And I didn't have, I'll share another story
since we have the time, I guess.
It's kind of, kind of funny.
We didn't have an alternative, a plan B,
to promote the National Press Club event.
Okay, it was a big deal.
We were flying in 15 people from seven countries,
from all around the world, military, government,
FAA officials, people from Tehran.
I've got a photograph of a fighter pilot in Tehran
that had one of the most dramatic encounters with the UFO
in 1976 over Tehran, Iran.
Where he literally tried to fire at the thing.
It blocked up, it seized his plane.
He started falling out of the sky.
I got to, I'll show you a picture of that
in a little bit.
Incredible encounter.
And nobody had ever gotten Parviz Jafari
to come to the United States ever.
And it was right after the Bush administration
had called, I ran the access of evils.
I was like, oh, dude, I was like, don't say that.
I'm trying to get visas to get this guy over to the States.
Anyway, the time was very sketchy.
So we did the National Press Club event
and I was like, I'm gonna make a movie
out of this National Press Club event.
I'm gonna film it all in HD and everyone's like,
how are you gonna make a movie
about a bunch of old retired guys
standing at a podium testifying under the UFO phenomenon?
I said, well, who's the guy, Al Gore,
made a PowerPoint presentation on a film and that,
if he can do it, heck, I can do it, right?
So I ended up making a whole movie.
And I was still in production.
I still hadn't finished production with Out of the Blue,
the revised version of Out of the Blue.
But suddenly this whole new thing came along.
And so I made a film on the National Press Club event
that I did with Leslie Cain.
And it's called I Know What I Saw.
And I continued production with that.
But the crazy part was, as I was saying earlier,
sorry, I keep going off the intangents,
is that I never really had the money.
I never ever had any money up front
to do anything I've ever done.
I always kind of found the money because I really believe,
and I've lived it, people will see and be inspired
by your going for it, right?
And it's a scary thing to go for it.
It really is because, you know,
you're soldering this project.
You don't know the ultimate outcome.
You don't know witnesses you're gonna get to come forward
or not come forward.
You don't know where your next check's gonna come from.
You know, but people will be inspired,
particularly when I had some traction in the media.
That really helped.
And they'll be inclined to wanna help you and support you.
And so there was this upswell of support coming from this.
I had one guy, I never even met him.
Bless his heart, I just went to thank him the other day.
I found out he passed, his name was Joe Bellotti.
Never met the guy.
He goes, I love what you're doing.
He sent me a check for 20 grand.
That was like a million dollars to me.
I mean, I did so much with that money.
Yeah, and I contacted him recently.
I was like, yeah, I'd lost contact with him
and I reached out and his daughter goes like, yeah,
Joe Bellotti, unfortunately, he passed a couple of years.
I was like, oh my God, I never really got to.
Anyway, my point is, yeah, so then I did and I could go on
I could go on till I'm blue in the face.
How many times, you know, people come out of the woodwork
to help out and support what you're doing.
Some anonymously, some not.
But then I did, I know what I saw and I sold.
I know what I saw to A&E.
It was all rather precarious and you know,
you got a gritty do-it-yourself production.
Things have changed in the last decade and a half a lot.
But I remember finishing the movie
and it was a pretty good movie.
I narrated it.
The first time I went out, broke out from Peter Coyote
and it was a good film.
And Tom DeLong was helping a little bit with the sound.
I recorded some sound in his studio in San Diego.
And you know, at the end of a production,
you're pretty broke and then you got deliverables
and deliverables at that time were a nightmare.
You had to like, you had to produce standard deaf,
high deaf version, short version, long version,
audio stems, this side, that side, independent,
textless version, texted version.
Oh my God.
And I had to do it on Digi Beta tapes.
Digi Beta tapes.
I was like, what the hell am I doing these on Digi Beta tapes?
You guys are gonna digitize this stuff anyway.
It's already digitized.
Like, what are you doing?
And it was like the last year or two
that they did that stupid process.
It was a nightmare and it costs so much money every time.
And I kept failing the delivery process.
You mean black levels have to be a certain this
and they're very, the A&E had very high standards
of like deliverables and it was like, you know,
super expensive process to do these Digi Beta tapes
and everything.
So I failed the first two attempts.
And then my financial backer said,
we're not putting another penny into this movie.
I was like, we have a sale right now
for half a million dollars on the line right now.
And you mean to tell me,
we're putting another dime into this thing?
My really good friend had just died,
left me with this fancy BMW.
So I pawned that car to pay for the last round.
And I literally contacted the guys
at acquisitions department at A&E.
And I was at the end of my rope.
I had nothing to lose.
And I was pretty much arguing with them, right?
I was like, look, man, this is not a high def, you know,
production on the beauty of the Grand Canyon.
What the hell is wrong with you guys?
Like it's never gonna be.
It's a gritty do-it-yourself documentary.
But look at the content.
And it was shot over like a long period of time.
And I got archival footage and there's different frame rates.
And who cares?
Like, and I was like, oh God, maybe I went a little far.
I was like, oh God, I was like kind of silent on the phone.
I was like, I have a million dollars and I was so broke.
And he goes, yeah, yeah, yeah, you got a point.
You got a point.
Okay, I'll tell you what,
I'll let these three things go,
which I could have never fixed.
I need you to do this, this and this.
And if you do that, we got a deal.
So I went back to the drawing board
and I went into the production facility
that was making the tapes.
And I sat there with them and they were like,
you know, our clients don't usually sit
and look over our shoulders and look at the black levels
and know this and then that.
And I said, look, buddy,
I can't afford to do this at one more time.
This is it.
So I need to get this right.
And so they're made an exception.
And I looked over, you know, send the tapes off.
I mean, it was like 15 grand or something.
Send the tapes off back east.
And I barely made the FedEx.
It was so precarious.
Oh my God, people had no idea.
So precarious.
What was the biggest difference between?
Well, anyway, so I was the last one I'll finish.
Yeah.
So the next morning or two mornings later,
I get a phone call.
I was driving my car, I look down, it's two, one, two.
I was like, oh God, that's Amy.
I pulled my car over.
Mr. Fox, how you doing?
This is so and so with acquisitions.
I was like, well, I don't really know how I'm doing.
Once you tell me, he goes, you passed.
And so, you know, so I know what I saw, you know,
I sold that and then that went out.
And it just kind of, but I was never satisfied
with a production of mine since the early concept
in the nineties when I was like,
I'm gonna do the feature length documentary
on the topic of UFOs.
It's gonna like transcend into the mainstream.
And I wasn't satisfied until I did the phenomenons.
That when I finished that, I cried and I was like, I did it.
It took me like, you know, years and years,
but I did it, excuse me.
So you released the phenomenon in 2020, right?
At the end of 2020, yes.
What's the biggest difference in your experience
from creating these films in the nineties
compared to now, right now?
Because obviously there's a ton of resistance, right?
There's a ton of friction with the whole topic,
especially when it comes to different secret levels
of government, people not being wanting to be associated
with the stigmas.
Yeah, yeah.
How has the whole world around this topic changed?
So I used to get laughed at all the time
to the point where if I'd go to a cocktail party,
I'd tell people I was with, don't tell them what I do.
I don't want to spend the night defending myself.
I'm not interested.
And I'm out here to like,
prophesize and get people to join my cult of believers.
I really don't care.
And so that is what I was used to, you know?
I was used to being laughed at and really cool
and made fun of.
And there was like, you know, a few people
that might quietly kind of behind the scenes like,
oh, what is it?
Is there really something to that?
You know what I mean?
Or I have a friend that claims they saw something.
That all changed, December 2017 when the,
and I had no idea.
I was like three or four years into production
with the phenomenon.
Of course, I didn't have a title for it at that point,
but I was three or four years into production
and I was kind of struggling for financing.
You know, a lot of times with making a doc,
I'll get funding and it'll, it takes me so long.
It'll like, that funding will dry up.
Then I got to go find more funding.
Well, right around the time when the New York Times
revealed the secret Pentagon UFO program,
that changed everything.
Because it wasn't just the fact that they revealed
this secret Pentagon UFO program,
but they also revealed or released evidence.
That was the cockpit recordings of those UFOs, you know?
And then you had slowly the pilots coming out, right?
And that really, and then you have the former Senate
Majority Leader, Harry Reid talking about how he initiated
this with a couple of other senators.
And like they gave the contract to Bigelow.
And anyway, this whole thing had come out.
And I had people from all around the world
apologizing to me.
I'm not kidding you, man.
Like we're so sorry we made fun of you for so long.
Wow, I guess there really is something to this.
It really changed, it really changed everything
that front page of the New York Times.
Sorry, I got to wipe my nose.
Yeah, yeah.
So the difference in terms of perception,
I think the phenomenon, the film, I'm not trying to pat myself
on the back, but I guess I can pat myself in the back.
I was terrified.
So there are three categories of UFO sightings according
to Dr. J. Allen Heineck, who investigated UFOs
in an official capacity.
He was a scientific advisor to Project Blue Book.
Project Blue Book ran from 47 to 69 someplace to 70,
but they announced it's closing in 69.
They investigated 12,000.
This is the United States Air Force.
They investigated 12,618 cases out of which 701
remained unidentified.
And remind me about that number.
I'll explain the relevancy with that number
to the report that came out yesterday on the Hill, OK?
So that's a very stubborn small percent.
So Dr. Heineck broke them down into three categories,
close encounters of the first kind.
It's when someone claims to see a UFO,
close encounter of the second kind.
They see a UFO and somehow this UFO
interacts with the environment, whether it
leaves a burnt mark on the ground
or the radiation affects someone's face
within certain proximity, burns, soil, samples, leaves, trees,
bushes, whatever.
That's close count of the second kind.
OK.
Close encounter of the third kind is when the witness reports
allegedly beings, entities associated with the UFO.
That's close count of the third kind.
So the phenomenon for the first time
in all the films that I'd ever made
dealt with close encounters of the third kind,
alleged beings, and it's very different
between objects in the sky and beings on the ground.
Yeah.
It was a big, big difference, right?
Because you talk about Russia or China, all you want.
But when you talk about beings on the ground,
that's just a game changer.
I'm going to get to the relevance of what
the close encounters of the first, second, and third kind.
So all the history I'd done, I did 50 years
of denial, which I sold to Discovery.
I did out of the blue version one, out of the blue version two.
I did. I know what I saw.
I'd never, ever dealt with close encounters of the third kind,
where the witness report, they report seeing beings
associated with the craft, OK?
I felt like a slippery slope.
And boy, it's kind of a difficult one to kind of swallow.
Yeah.
With the phenomenon, I went for it.
And honestly, I was terrified because I
had high level government and intelligence officers
in the film, several of which, including the former Senate
Majority Leader, Harry Reid, refused to sign a release form
until they got to see the movie.
Oh, wow.
I don't blame them.
Right.
So I got a movie that starts in Alabama in the 50s
and it ends in Africa of an alleged landing of a UFO,
multiple UFOs, and the occupants getting out in broad daylight
with 100 witnesses and interacting telepathically
with these witnesses.
That's just nuts, right?
I mean, come on.
Like, I thought the Harry Reids and the Podestas
and all the other intelligence people that are in my movie,
The York Times, like, take us out of the movie.
I was terrified.
Nobody had ever done with a mainstream reporting
with all that and dealt with alleged close encounters
of the third kind.
That's just such a game changer because you
can no longer, like, talk about whether it's Russia
or whether it's a drone or whether we're talking beans.
Right.
And these beans look very different than a human, right?
In fact, if you want, I've got some illustrations.
I could tell you a few.
Yeah, no, we'll definitely get into that.
But anyway, my point is, is that that was the first film,
the phenomenon where I broke through to a much broader
mainstream audience.
And not only that, but we dealt with,
we reported on very compelling close encounters
of the third kind.
Yeah, the stigma, when you talk about the stigma associated
with just UFO sightings or encounters of the first
and the second kind, it's definitely been largely
erased by the New York Times article.
For sure.
But there's obviously still a lot of it
when it comes to actual creatures or beings being reported.
Um, to you, actually, before we get into that,
let's talk about the hill, the hill.
Yeah, the latest news that just came out yesterday
regarding the hill.
And I also want to ask about what you know about the new bill
that was passed to protect whistleblowers.
It's to maybe you can find it.
That's a, it's a, we'll talk about that after,
but it's a new bill that was passed to protect whistleblowers
of private organizations that are working on
some of these secret programs.
For example, in Lockheed Martin or Raytheon,
whatever it might be.
They've been talking about basically giving people immunity
that can come forward and share government secrets
without fear of prosecution.
Because the violation of National Security Act,
I think it is, but backing up for a moment.
So I read the article that came out,
I think it was yesterday in the hill, vice.
And I thought I interpreted it fairly well,
but then I reached out to Lou Elizondo
who ran the ATIP program at the Pentagon,
just to be sure, because we go back,
we text things back and forth
and I share stuff with him and vice versa.
So he was, for people who don't know who he is,
he was the head of the ATIP program.
So it was advanced aerospace threat identification program.
It was the program at the Pentagon,
the secret UFO program that ended up on the front page
of the New York Times.
And you see all the little UFOs that came out with it.
So let me read you the text that he sent me.
Yeah, because, and I'll explain this.
Okay, for the first time in recent history,
our Congress is focusing on UFOs in a non-prozeic manner.
Meaning, if it turns out that a particular incident,
a product of man-made process or technology,
then the UAP JPO, I have to look up what the JPO is,
will not continue to study it.
Only those phenomena that fall outside the category
and are truly anomalous will be focused.
So basically, what he's saying is,
you've got to select committee, right?
And they're saying, I talked earlier about
the 701 cases that ended up in the unidentified category
that were investigated from the Air Force
out of 12,618.
So that's that very stubborn small percentage of cases.
So what the select committee is saying,
we're only gonna look at stuff that's non-human.
All the other stuff, we have no interest in investigating.
So by them saying that, they're admitting
that a small percentage of UFOs,
we're not trying to find out if all UFOs
are of extraterrestrial origin, right?
It's are any, are any of them,
because it only takes one or two, right?
So they're saying, we're only interested
in that core 10 or 15% of truly unidentifiable cases
like the non-human cases.
So it's basically them saying, without directly saying
that a small percentage of UFOs are not an earthly origin
or not of human, you know, are not man-made.
And they changed it to where they, they talk,
they're now talking about being trans-medium
to where they're like, they're aero space and submersible.
Yeah, they can go, they can operate in outer space,
they can operate in the atmosphere
and they can operate underwater.
And they can do all three simultaneously.
Yeah, and this is new.
This is something that the commander, David Fraver,
was talking about, the thing was hovering about,
there's videos of the crafts that are hovering
above the water and then disappearing into the ocean.
And that's something that hasn't really that,
I don't think the New York Times article talked much
about the underwater aspect of it,
but the underwater aspect of it to me is fascinating.
Unbelievable.
I mean, look, I went and I got to interview Fraver,
I got to meet a lot of people, you know, for the phenomenon.
And the videos that have been released
are pretty impressive, but the videos that I'm told
that people have seen that I've spoken to
that have not been released are just like, you know,
more in focus, they exhibit, they'll exhibit
like a flight characteristic.
Like for instance, there's one out right now
called the Go Fast.
According to people that I've talked to,
you see the Go Fast and the guy is like trying to,
he's trying to get his radar on it.
He goes, I got him, I got him.
And he finally gets it as it's screaming
across the top of the ocean, right?
The Go Fast, you can look up Go Fast.
But apparently that video is much longer
and then it does a 90 degree angle turn
and then shoots off the screen.
So there's that, the famous tic-tac
that David Fraver had talked about
where it's like stationary and the jet's flying towards it
and then it shoots off to one side.
That was in 2004, the Nimitz UFO encounter.
That apparently, according to David Fraver and others,
there's a much higher resolution version of that one.
Somehow that has not been released.
There's stuff that underwater.
I mean, I just heard some incredible stories.
In fact, I've been hearing incredible stories
for decades about video and photographic evidence
that has yet to see the light of day.
And when I got to meet with the guy
who spearheaded the ATIP program,
who was former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
which I had to pinch myself that I was in the same room
with the guy, he confirmed on camera,
which was a very, very big gotcha moment
in the phenomenon where he says, I said, wait a minute,
are you suggesting that there's evidence
that hasn't been released to the public?
And he says, I'm telling you that most of the evidence
has yet to see the light of day.
So some intelligence or agency,
I don't know who's in charge,
is sitting on the most compelling,
I know this because I've talked to the witnesses
that have either handed the evidence over
or that they've seen the evidence.
They've seen the video and photographic evidence.
So one of my objectives moving forward is,
is locating that footage and locating who has the authority
to release it because that would be,
it's one thing to talk about the reality of the phenomenon,
it's another to start, they've got all the sensors
for them to start releasing it into the general public.
Right.
Another thing is Al Putoff, who was the head of,
I think, what was he?
He was the senior advisor of ATIP,
which was at Bigelow Airspace,
and the guy Al Putoff, older guy.
He talks about the same thing,
except that what happens is,
a lot of this technology,
a lot of this information that's being held
is in the hands of private agencies.
That way it's protected by FOIA,
by the Freeman Information Act.
So people can't go to the government
and request these records because they're held
by these private entities,
like whatever that might be, Lockheed Martin or...
So that's a very, very good point.
And I sort of organically came to that conclusion
because, well, I'll give an example.
This book right here, okay.
This is a briefing document that was sponsored,
if you could see it for a little higher.
It's a briefing document that was paid for
and sponsored by Lawrence Spellman Rockefeller.
It was done during the Clinton administration.
And he was, this is a briefing document for world leaders
to bring them up to speed on the most compelling aspects
that five or 10% of truly inexplicable UFO cases.
This book features a lot of the really best ones.
And in it,
he, during making that,
during putting this whole thing together,
he was putting significant pressure
on the Clinton administration.
In fact, he even said to Clinton,
you either gonna go after the UFO phenomenon
or I'm gonna expose the fact
that you're not willing to do this.
I know this, I have inside information.
This has definitely happened.
Or I'll publish on the front page of everything.
And UFOs were kind of getting a little bit of traction
because you had the 50th anniversary
coming up for the Roswell.
You know, there had been some reports coming out.
There was the Bob Lazar thing.
You know, people were talking UFOs
in the early 90s, early mid 90s.
So ultimately what they concluded was,
he said, okay, President Clinton said,
okay, give me a case.
What case should we go after?
And Rockefeller said, Roswell.
So they went after Roswell, the administration.
I cover some of this in the phenomenon,
but they went after Roswell.
And at the end of the day,
they concluded that the hard evidence
had gone out to these subcontractors.
So these outside companies
that were free from oversight.
So when the government says we don't have it,
they really,
they don't, right?
They really don't have it.
It could be like, let's just say Boeing
or Lockheed Martin or one of these companies.
They are outside of oversight from members of Congress
and presidential reach.
So, cause people go, well,
the president has access to everything.
Well, naturally he doesn't.
Because if it's outside, I guess,
or if you don't know about it,
he said, President Clinton said,
he was not happy with the answers he was getting.
So, and you know, you hear the same thing.
I mean, President Jimmy Carter said that.
Gerald Ford had gone, you know,
I talked to Gerald Ford.
I interviewed Jimmy Carter very briefly
at a book signing where he was basically,
like we went after it,
but we weren't getting the answers.
Who else was,
well, I'm sure Bush knew,
probably quite a bit because he was head of the CIA,
I don't know about Bush Jr.
But yeah, I definitely,
I have definitely concluded from all the people
that I've talked to is that presidents do not have access.
And I don't know who does, to be honest with you.
I'm not sure what agency does.
I wish I did know.
You know, I'd like to know.
Yes, it almost seems like it's obvious
that some of these private aerospace companies
are holding evidence or material, physical material,
that's not available to academia
or the public, obviously.
Which I think it makes,
it shows, you know, one of the reasons for stuff like this,
Congress having the bill to the whistleblower act
to protect the people who work in those companies
to shine light on it or make it public.
But at the same time, it seems like those people,
it would be hard for them to do it
because they would just be sacrificing their career.
Also think of it this way.
How do they benefit by sharing what they have
with the general public?
How do they benefit, right?
Like, you have to reveal your vulnerabilities
and the things that you don't know
in order to reveal what you do know.
Because as soon as you start talking about these,
I mean, just think about it.
If the president of the United States tomorrow
said, you know, my fellow Americans,
it's been brought to my attention
that we have structured craft of unknown origin
whizzing around with impunity in our airspace.
We don't know, they fly rings around our fastest jets.
They exhibit a technology
that's light years advanced from what we have.
We don't know who they are,
where they come from or what they want.
Thank you and good night.
I mean, that's honestly what I believe.
I believe that they know that the phenomenon's real.
I believe they have hardware and bodies.
But does that mean they have all the answers?
Does that mean that they understand
whatever the agenda could be
of whoever these people are?
Do we know where they come from?
Are they interdimensional?
Do they live under the ocean?
Are they interplanetary?
Are they time travelers?
Are they all the above?
I have no idea.
Do they know?
I mean, they got more answers than we do,
but they might not have a whole lot more.
They might be opening up a can of worms.
There are people right now
fearful of what the level of transparency,
and don't get me wrong,
what's been happening since 2017 is unprecedented.
It really is.
But remember, somebody forced the government's hand.
The former intelligence guy, Christopher Mellon,
whose friends with Lou Elizondo,
who ran the ATIP program,
they walked those tapes out of the Pentagon.
Granted, they found a loophole
that they didn't necessarily violate the law.
They took advantage of that loophole,
but they kind of bend the rules a little bit, right?
Those tapes came out of the Pentagon,
and they went on to the front page of the New York Times.
That was kind of forcing the government's hand.
They can't put the genie back in the bottle.
So there are people that want this out,
and there are other people that do not want this out,
and they don't want it out for fear of, like,
A, they've been lying to us all these years,
but B, it exposes their vulnerabilities.
It exposes our vulnerabilities.
Just imagine for a moment, like I said earlier,
if there really were these unknown objects
that could just fly rings around our fastest jets,
they turn off our nuclear weapons,
turn them on, turn them off, mostly turn them off, right?
They whiz off at an unbelievable rate of speed,
and we don't know who they are,
where they come from, what they're here.
Like, that's a little unnerving
to release to the general public, wouldn't you think?
I'm not saying that your audience
to believe what I'm telling you or not.
Just imagine if that's the case.
You can kind of see a justification for secrecy, right?
Not that you agree with it, I don't agree with it.
I don't care how scary it is on one another truth.
Right.
Let us all know the truth, we're all entitled to it.
Let's know this.
Do you think it's possible
that one of these private airspace companies
has some sort of, has figured out in any capacity,
anti-gravity or anything like that,
some of these projects that Bob Lazar was talking about.
Do you think it's possible
that they have some of this technology
and aren't letting other scientists in academia
know about it?
I think that they have the technology,
and I didn't just believe that overnight.
I mean, it didn't just,
like it was a very slow process for me
because I am, believe it or not,
I'm actually quite skeptical.
A lot of the cases that I cover,
like my new film, Moment of Contact,
we'll talk about that a little later,
you know, which is the UFO crash case
that happened in 1996 in Brazil.
I didn't believe that for over 10 years
when I heard about it.
I didn't believe, in the Rua case,
the landing in Africa.
Absolutely didn't believe it.
Wouldn't even look into it.
I was like, there's no way that that happened.
So the fact that I believe
that crashes have happened
and bodies and debris have been recovered,
it was a very slow process for me.
It was witnesses, after witness,
after witness, after document,
after intelligence person I've talked to,
like I finally was like,
there's more evidence to suggest
that it happened than it didn't happen.
And that clearly went somewhere, right?
I've even asked, you know, I jokingly asked,
I always kind of do it with a smile on my face,
but I'll say, all right, hey, you know,
it's just some intelligence guy that I'm talking with.
All right, so here we go, all right, here we go.
I want to know where the bodies are,
we'll get that, let's talk about that first.
And then we can get over to the debris,
like where are they hiding the bodies?
So everybody's gonna laugh, you know what it's like.
And I think they kind of know
that they are being hidden somewhere.
But it sounds like crazy talk, I know.
We were talking about it last night,
the bodies from Waswell are apparently
in the Air Force Base in Florida.
Yeah, so I've also heard California too.
Maybe they go back and forth, I don't know.
But that was in the 70s.
Right, right, yes, yes.
Okay, the 70s is the story when Jackie Gleason and Nixon
went to go see the Air Force Base.
Yes.
How did that story go?
Well, so,
because I've heard it before,
but nobody seems to know the whole story.
Okay, so,
a really good friend of mine,
a guy who's very high up in the entertainment industry,
who's been very instrumental
in getting my foot in the door
with some executives over the years to help me out.
His name's Jeff Sugansky.
And one day,
quite a while ago actually,
I was doing, I knew what I saw.
I said, Jeff,
you're so nice to me.
Like, why are you helping me?
You're just top executive,
you're a gazillionaire,
why are you helping me?
I'm just this little guy,
that's this little independent guy.
And he goes,
you know, James,
I was friends with Jackie Gleason.
And Jackie Gleason told me one time,
Jeff, don't ever believe anyone that tells you
that UFOs are not real.
I had 100% definitive proof.
Excuse me, whether he saw it or shown it,
he was somewhat nebulous as to exactly what happened.
But he said, don't ever believe anything.
This events happened, UFOs are real,
they're here, it's a fact.
So he said he'd always remembered that
in counter with Gleason when he told me that.
And when he saw this independent guy and myself,
just striving to get the word out
and find out what's going on,
he always offered a helping hand.
He was always really helpful.
Then I think it was like,
maybe about two years after Jackie Gleason died,
his wife came forward and said that one night
he came home in the early 70s
from a meeting with Nixon at a Florida military base.
You know the one.
Homestead, homestead.
Right, the tip of Florida.
And that his eyes were wide and his face was white.
And he said, I was just shown entities
from a crash in New Mexico.
And they were floating in some fluid or something
at the Air Force Base.
That's what his wife came out.
Now, you know, that's probably what Gleason
was referring to, I would imagine.
When he met with Jeff Saganowski and told him that,
I would imagine, right?
If he had that level of confirmation,
that's what he said to Jeff.
He didn't say to Jeff, you know,
Nixon showed me the bodies.
He just said, I had definitive proof.
Like there's no, don't ever believe anyone
tell you otherwise.
They're absolutely here.
It's a fact.
That's what he said to Jeff Saganowski.
And so when his wife came out with that,
that's probably what happened.
Do you get the feeling that a lot of,
when you talk to a lot of these people
that you interview that,
obviously there's people who worked in the government
and worked on some of these top secret programs,
do you get the feeling that they're holding things back,
a lot of things back sometimes,
where they're talking to you?
Because obviously there's times where you're talking
to people like witnesses who aren't tied to anything.
And they're just talking to you freely.
There's having a conversation with you.
But then there's people you talk to
who are influenced by organizations.
And it's a different kind of conversation.
Yeah, I'll give you an example.
This is kind of funny.
I'm not gonna, is it an intelligence person?
We're putting together this,
he was helping me put together some language
for something I was doing.
And he said, no, no, no, change that wording.
And I said, okay, why?
It was like, I don't know if I said like extraterrestrial
or if I said alien or otherworldly,
I can't remember exactly how I phrased it.
And he said, no, no, no, no, no,
delete that, change it, make it to this.
And I said, okay, sure, why?
He goes, well, they might be living under our oceans.
And I was like, okay, can you elaborate a little bit?
He's like, no.
What?
That's what he said, swear to God.
Yeah, that's what he said.
I, hey, where did this guy work?
He was an intelligence guy.
I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
He definitely would be in a position to know,
certainly, you know, but that's all he said was like,
they might be living under the oceans.
They might be living in our oceans.
Yeah, they might be.
They didn't say they did or they did or didn't.
They said they might, but then he was on Shalon about it.
He was just like, I'll tell you, I'll tell you,
Robert Bigelow.
Yes, we talked about him last night.
Yeah, so I did, I know what I saw.
Now your audience knows a little bit about my history.
So you'll have a reference when I tell you this,
when I finished it, I know what I saw.
And it was based on that event I did
at the National Press Club,
which was pretty credible civilian effort at the time.
It was like, you know, you have all these retired military
and government officials and pilots
and FAA officials from seven countries.
We had Chile, we had Iran, France, Belgium, England.
Anyway, Peru.
It was incredible.
It was incredible listening to these like officials
from all these, you know, it was, it was, it was credible.
It was a pretty credible civilian effort
to get the stuff out.
The film comes out and I get an email from,
which I showed you last night.
I get an email from Robert Bigelow.
He's in aerospace.
He's designing these, he's a billionaire.
He lives in Nevada.
And he has contracts with the United States Air Force
dating back God knows how long, decades,
where any reports, any pilot reports,
things of that nature of UFOs all goes to Robert Bigelow's.
You know, he had like a think tank, NIDS,
and his organization was like,
how could the civilian like be getting a contract
with the government on UFO, what, you know?
And he's also, he was working at one point with
Tesla, Elon Musk, with, I guess he was trying
to use Elon Musk's rockets to put his habitable,
inflatable zones up into space, because they're lightweight.
Oh really?
Anyway, I'm not sure what that,
whatever happened with that effort,
but in any case, he's a high profile guy.
He was on 60 minutes.
So he sends me an email or his secretary.
Mr. Bigelow has a message he wants to pass along.
He watched your film, I know what I saw,
and he wants to congratulate you on a job well done.
And I was like, damn, Bigelow reached out to me.
Like, we're out of Bigelow.
So I, you know, I emailed back, thank you so much.
Would he be willing to get together for, you know,
dinner lunch or something?
Yes.
So I was like, well, I'm gonna go meet Bigelow.
Why not, right?
I mean, the guy is like, he's gotten all the contracts.
Now what was really funny was,
I didn't realize this till later.
Robert Bigelow at the time was actually,
and I'm convinced of this,
he was fishing to see what my next move was gonna be.
He wanted to know what I was up to.
Cause he was asking me like, oh, what's your next thing?
You know, maybe I'd finance it.
He just wanted to know.
He wasn't gonna finance anything I wanted to do.
He just wanted to know, and I'm pretty sure of that.
But I said to him at one point, I was like, well, you know,
what side, who side are you on?
Because every case that I'm looking into,
particularly the case in the United States
and international cases too.
I get people saying, oh, well Bigelow,
Bigelow's organization came and took all that evidence.
And I kept hearing that.
I was like, so what are you doing with all this evidence?
And so anyway, he says, James, do you,
before I say this, I'm gonna say that this guy,
I guess legitimately is in a position
to know a lot more than I know, okay?
Particularly at that time, he had the government contracts.
He had the contacts.
He had the intellectual heavyweights
in the scientific community all working for him.
This guy definitely knows a lot.
No question.
And so he says, James, do you understand
the implications of disclosure?
And I said, I don't remember giving it too much thought.
Why?
He goes, meaning the implications of disclosure,
meaning the implications.
The story really came out.
Okay.
So he's like, and to be honest with you,
yeah, sure, I guess I thought about it.
I mean, doing this even that big of a deal to me,
we're not alone, great.
You know what I mean?
All right, all right.
Thought about thinking about it.
Yeah, I don't think anybody just thinks
that we're alone in the universe anymore.
Anyway, you're coming here.
He said, I just need to really emphasize this
to everybody out there.
So you understand what I'm telling you.
I'm not saying I believe what I'm about to tell you.
I need to see more evidence.
I'm not saying I don't believe it,
but I don't just believe something
because someone told me that.
I need to see supporting evidence.
I need to hear testimony.
I need a lot more.
What's taking me as long as it has
with all the other cases that I investigate.
I don't just like believe a case.
Okay, so Robert Bigelow said to me,
they're walking among us.
I said, what do you mean?
They're walking among us.
He said, they're walking among us.
They live right here, kind of thing.
So again, I'm looking at him going,
I need to see, I'd like to see some proof of that.
But then he said, we've done studies.
We've done extensive studies on the impacts
of this story we have on the general public.
Globally.
And I said, okay, what was the kind of studies?
He goes, well, you take Iran, Contra,
and you take all these other like super big scandals
and you multiply those, every one of them
that's ever happened in the history of mankind
and modern history.
And then you multiply that by a million.
And that's the impact, according to our studies,
that this reality would have on the general public.
He said, the economy would collapse,
organized religion would collapse.
And he just rattled off all that.
Like again, I'm not saying that I believe this,
I'm just telling you what he said to me.
How could you possibly conduct a study on that?
I could see how you could gather,
you could collect data on individuals,
but how could you possibly do a study
on an entire civilization or large group of people?
Like how would you do that?
That's what he told me, that's what he told me.
I mean, look, it would have an impact.
There's no question that it would have an impact.
And it probably would affect religion, right?
Why am I going to work?
Why the fuck am I paying taxes?
Why am I?
Right.
You know, and it's like,
I remember having this conversation
with the sixth man to walk on the moon, Edgar Mitchell.
And he goes, you know, this story's just part
of the bigger picture, let it out.
People should know about it.
People should be okay.
He goes, you know, you still have to take out the garbage.
You still gotta pay your mortgage
or your rent, you know, that was kind of funny.
Every time I take the garbage, I feel like, you know,
I believe we're not alone in the universe
and it's being covered up for us,
but I still gotta take my garbage out.
Imagine also, imagine the kind of power
you must feel holding onto that information
that would, you're holding something
that could potentially alter humankind.
Yes.
Alter the mindset of every,
every one of our species on earth.
Yeah.
And that could probably change the trajectory
of where we go, how we evolve, et cetera.
Like if you hold onto that information,
how does that affect your ego?
I literally just interviewed a guy.
I get, I got goosebumps on my arms talking about this
because it's just crazy.
Because I believe it.
Who drove a bean, call it a creature or bean
or they called it kind of ET on that UFO crash case
in Virginia, Brazil in 1996.
And I said to him,
you have a level of confirmation
that only a handful of people on this planet have.
What does that feel like?
Cause I wanted to know, you know,
he's got a serious heart attack
and he was not out there trying to get
an interview with anybody.
We were chased him down for years.
And it was like all the money in the world
and never coming forward.
And the stars lined up and we had like a 36 hour window
where we managed to get this guy on camera.
But I asked him that question.
You have a level of confirmation.
You know, definitively, you drove this thing around.
What does that feel like?
And he, he responded like it was more of a burden
than anything else.
And it's actually kind of ruined his life.
The level of secrecy.
He gets phone calls from the base
that ask him like, hey, how you doing?
How's your family doing?
You guys having a good time?
Did you, did you move yet?
Or are you still in the same spot?
Right.
You're still in the same spot?
Great, great.
I'm glad your family's doing good.
I'm glad you're, you're doing good.
You know, any change of plans, you know,
let us know that those kinds of calls he gets all the time.
Yeah. I mean, the main difference between people like
the people you interviewed in Brazil
who were a part of the Virginia case and people like Bigelow
is Bigelow's powerful, rich and powerful guy
who probably has a lot of leverage in government.
Like I'm sure if he chose one day on his,
whether it be just cause he was in the right mood
or cause he was on his deathbed, whatever,
if he chose to release that information,
I'm sure he could do it and wouldn't have to suffer
any kind of crazy repercussions.
Maybe I'm wrong.
But the guys that are in Brazil,
like literally they're dealing with the threats
of military and government threatening their families.
I feel like it's a little bit different.
I feel like Bigelow's in a position of,
I hold on to this mad, like it's like this piece of magic
that he's holding, this power,
the power to change the world.
Yeah, for me, I feel like Bigelow is selfish.
Yeah.
Because when I met with,
I think I might have called him later as well
a couple of times, I can't remember,
but I said to him, who's side are you on?
And I was serious, cause like everything that I do,
I do to share everything that I uncover
with the rest of the world.
That's why I do what I do.
I honestly and firmly believe that every man,
woman and child on this planet is entitled
to this information.
I believe that with all my heart.
And it pisses me off quite frankly,
that someone feels that we are not worthy of knowing this,
that we can't handle it,
or that we don't deserve it or something.
You know what I mean?
So it's like, when I see someone of his like stature,
he's got resources, man, that guy's a billionaire.
I'm like a squirrel trying to get a nut out in this,
compared to a guy like that.
And then the fact that he's hoarding it all,
and it's under armed guard in a vault at his house,
like ours, whatever his office,
kind of pisses me off a little bit.
I'm like, what, what, wait a minute,
how are you, does he have an agreement with the government?
So he has to do that?
Or is he just being like selfish,
and doesn't want to share the results of his,
you know, work and investigation with the general public?
Cause he's like, feels like he's better.
I don't know what the hell he's thinking,
but I share everything.
The only thing I don't generally share is stuff
that I know for sure beyond a shadow of doubt
that I'm going to be looked at like a crazy guy,
because I've looked at myself as a crazy guy.
You know, I can't tell you enough,
like I'm putting my credibility on the line
for this Marginia case, okay?
Because you got this, and I'll say right up front,
I honestly, sincerely, and unequivocally
do not expect any of your audience
to believe any of this without looking at the testimony.
In other words, don't believe a word coming out of my mouth,
because I heard about this case decades ago.
I heard about it within a year or two of it happening.
And you wrote it off?
I dismissed it like that.
I was like, no way a UFO crashed
and the beans survived and we're walking through the town.
No way, no way.
In fact, I dismissed it for 10 years.
Let's see, no, no.
I dismissed it in 97, I wouldn't look,
I wouldn't look into it for one second, not one second.
In 97, 98, 99, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, 13 years, okay?
So 2011, I was going to Brazil on a completely,
I was just gonna give a presentation
on one of the films I'd done.
Probably I know what I saw or something.
And my buddy Jeff Saganthke,
the guy I was telling you about earlier,
who met with Jackie Gleason, he goes,
oh, you're going to Brazil.
You gotta look into the Virginia case.
And I was like, you mean the one where the UFO crashed
and the aliens survived and they're walking through the town?
I go, sure, Jeff, I'll look into that.
Click, I'm on my cell phone.
And I had no intentions of looking into it.
I told him, I might've said I would,
I'm not looking at it, I'm not wasting my time on that case.
So I get to Brazil, and this is 2011,
and totally accidentally, completely like inadvertently,
I met some witnesses from,
they were happy to be at the conference that I was at
and talked to them a little bit about it.
A little bit.
I was like, huh?
Okay, interesting.
Kind of believed them a little bit.
So I went back in 2012 and I thought,
maybe there's something here.
And I was knocking on doors and really chasing it.
I mean, I went down to downtown Virginia, Brazil.
Virginia is in the state of Minas Gerais,
which is about four or five hours north of Sao Paulo.
In Sao Paulo, everyone, we all,
myself used to think I included the capital of Brazil,
but it's actually Brasilia, which is way to the north.
But Sao Paulo is like the big city, right?
And second time around, I was like, wow.
Maybe there really is something to this.
And then I went a third time,
and then I went a fourth time.
And then ultimately, I made the film and now,
absolutely beyond a shadow of doubt,
fully, completely convinced that a UFO crashed
in January of 1996 and that the beings,
some of the beings survived and were captured
by the authorities and witnessed by civilians
in the town of Argentina, Brazil.
And the film is complete now?
Totally done.
And you started working on it how many years ago?
Well, it started like actually making the film.
I know you've been researching it for a long time.
So if you look at from when I started researching
to the completion is probably 10 or 11 years.
10 or 11 years.
Yeah, but in actual, like in terms of like production,
like go there, boots on ground, we're gonna do this.
But all that prep work went into it.
That was just less than a year.
Absolutely mind-bending film.
For full disclosure, I watched it one day night.
And it had me completely,
it had me in a chokehold the whole time I was watching it.
Like I did not look up once.
Maybe we should show the trailer before we go
deeper into it. Great idea.
Can you pull the trailer for it?
For a moment of contact?
This trailer took, I think, three months to make.
Maybe a bit more.
In 1996, the people of Virginia, Brazil
witnessed a UFO event that would change their lives
from one day to the next forever.
Fuck, he played Navajo.
He had been losing his attitude for a while now.
Followed another Roswell, if you will.
It is a crashed vehicle that had beings on board
and is a crashed vehicle that had beings on board.
But they could not admit the truth.
The population went into collapse.
Nothing was hidden.
Finally, the facts will be revealed.
The Virginia case is considered the most well-capped secret
in the military circles of Brazil.
My objective here is to put some clarity on what took place
in Virginia, Brazil, January 1996.
The witnesses are some of the most compelling testimony
I've ever heard.
Action!
A lot of people in this town have a little piece of the puzzle.
I saw the trace of the creature's feet.
It was where he said that he saw something supernatural.
This year.
Mark Bichered, he had captured this creature, his bare hands.
After he captured the creature, he developed his infection
that wouldn't go away.
This can no longer be covered up.
They might shoot us because we're on the property.
This can't be denied.
This was proof.
He pulled us off.
It would be the most compelling testimony revealed.
Of contact.
This is a level of confirmation
that only a handful of people on this planet have.
Fascinating trailer.
What a fucking compelling voice he has, man.
So good.
One of the most unique voices ever.
I know, I know, I know.
I was a little, little worried.
Again, I'm pushing the envelope.
Make sure you turn the USB channel down again.
Good.
Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm pushing the envelope a little
on the comfort level of, of those around me
because you're dealing with like this.
I know how I looked at the case and I looked at the case
when I first heard about it, the Virginia case.
I dismissed it so quickly.
I told you earlier, like, I know how other people
are going to react when they hear, sure, a UFO crash.
Sure, the beans survived.
Yeah.
You know, cause that's how I, but I'm literally putting
my 30 year reputation on the line for this one.
29 year reputation on the line.
Do you know what I mean?
I stand behind it.
I stand behind it and I really believe,
and I think you do as well.
Sure, that's got a lot of pizzazz.
The trailer is designed to get people to watch the film,
but the film delivers.
It does.
It delivers.
It delivers.
It's not just a bunch of hot air.
Not at all.
The, the, the amount of evidence that you have
and the amount of people, civilians and ex-military
that you talk to is, is astounding.
And I don't correct me if I'm wrong.
I know the Zimbabwe case is close to this when it comes
to the amount of witnesses.
But when you have civilian witnesses mixed with military
and police witnesses on top of that, people handling this
creature and seeing it come into their place of work
into the hospital.
I don't think there's ever been a case where there's been
a being like this with all these witnesses running
around a neighborhood or a city.
Has there?
No.
I've never, I've never, I've never.
It seems so sci-fi.
I get the goosebumps talking about it because a challenge,
anyone out there in the UFO community, anyone to show me
a, let's say crazier story.
It's the most sensational story I've ever heard.
And the crazy part about it is that you will believe it.
I have one of my most skeptical friends who's watched
my career from day one, one of my best friends.
He lives in San Diego.
And he's been moderately supportive.
And he watched the phenomenon.
He loved it.
He watched this one about a month ago.
And I always, he's my, he's my barometer.
And he called me up and he goes, I'm floored.
That's the way he goes.
It's the craziest story I've ever heard in my life.
And I actually believe it happened.
I think this is the most powerful thing you've ever done.
And it's not, it's not my story, right?
I'm just reporting on it.
But we went out of our way to really, I mean,
we worked on some of those witnesses for nearly a decade.
We identified some of the doctors early on.
And they were like, I will never talk with you.
Like this is never going to happen.
You might as well just not even.
And then one of them, allegedly the guy that did the X-rays,
which for some reason, I don't know,
there's something about that testimony that really just like,
for me personally, listening to him.
And he goes, at the end of it, he goes, thank you.
Thank you for giving me this opportunity.
This has been the heaviest weight on my shoulders for so long.
The fact that I have the opportunity,
even though I'm doing it anonymously,
the fact that I've got, and everybody that we feature
that you're filming from behind, you know,
we have their credentials.
We have them in uniform.
We have all the history of them, all of it, right?
So we verify all of that before they even,
and then the fact that we get them to come forward
was just a miracle, quite honestly.
Just a miracle.
Yeah.
To you, what was the most compelling piece of evidence
or interviews that you did from all the people
you talked to in Brazil?
In Brazil?
Yeah.
To you, what was the thing that stood out to you the most?
Like, I met with an Air Force Brigadier
by the name of Jos Carlos Palera.
I have a photograph of him in uniform somewhere.
And he said, I'll talk to you about the UFO phenomenon
in Brazil, gladly.
I could talk about this case in 86,
UFOs in Brazil, and I could talk about the Calaris case,
but I don't want to talk about Virginia.
I was like, okay, well, you didn't talk about Virginia.
Don't even bring it up.
I was like, Jesus.
So Marco, my partner in Brazil, we did the interview.
I honored the fact that he didn't want to,
I don't know how I brought it up,
but I basically didn't bring it up on camera.
At the end of the interview,
and I have video and photographic proof that I was with this guy,
at the end of the interview, we walked him to his car
where he had his driver waiting.
And I looked him in the eye and I said,
I swear on my life and on my family's life,
there was no recording devices anywhere on my body,
no cameras rolling.
Please, General, please tell me,
did Virginia happen or not?
And Marco and I were just basically just,
I mean, we were like, I mean, I had never begged.
I wanted to know so bad.
And he looked at Marco and he looked at me,
and as he was getting into his car,
he opened up the back door and he goes,
it happened, and he got in his car,
closed the door, off he drove.
So I had, at that early stage,
very definitive for me.
It's obviously, this is a story for you or anybody else.
Listen to what I'm saying.
Why on earth would he not want to talk about it?
Why on earth would I have to beg and plead with him
on my hands and knees to get him very discreetly
at the last possible second when he was driving off
to look at us and say it happened.
Why on earth would he lie to us?
And so I had a pretty concrete level of confirmation
early on on the case.
So now it's like, okay, we got to keep digging.
We got to keep digging.
But what we were finding was,
is it the better the witness,
the less likely they wanted to come forward
and the more likely that they had been intimidated
and threatened.
And they would do it in a way where it wasn't like,
hey, we're going to kill you.
It was just like the punishment for violating your security oath
or your security is going to be so severe.
They would say, you know, so severe, you know,
how's your family kind of thing?
Not we're going to kill your family,
but these are the kinds of things that were spooky, right?
To the witnesses, like really spooked them.
And then to get phone calls every couple of years.
Hey, how are you doing?
You know, that kind of thing.
We worked incredibly hard and we were so lucky
and I've got to take my,
tip my hat a hundred times to Marco Leal,
my producing partner,
who's Brazilian,
who's been investigating this case longer than I have,
and he's been just a force to be reckoned with,
could never have done it without Marco.
It's incredible.
What, for people that are listening and watching,
can you lay out kind of a linear timeline of what went down?
What was seen first?
Was it crafts, the crash from the girls to the cop
that actually captured the being?
So in January,
probably 12th or 13th of 1996,
there was a
ultralight pilot
by the name of Carlos de Souza.
And Carlos was driving from Sao Paulo
up to a state called
Minas Gerais.
It's a state to the north.
And in Minas Gerais is Varginia
and a number of surrounding cities.
And he was driving on the freeway.
I think it was five o'clock in the morning,
5, 5.30 maybe.
And he saw something in the sky
that was cigar shaped.
They didn't look right and it looked like it was in trouble.
And he witnessed it crash.
Prior to that, there were two,
it was like 2.30 in the morning.
There were two farmers,
which I interviewed both of them as well,
that saw the object that looked like it was going to crash,
but they didn't see it crash.
There was two of them and it was about 2.30 o'clock in the morning
for them.
And it was a cigar shaped object
and it had a gash in the side of it
and it had vapor coming out,
like a white vapor coming out according to the witnesses.
But they kept kind of expecting it to
impact the ground,
but they didn't see it impact the ground
because it looked like it was in serious trouble
and it was flying slowly.
So then Carlos de Souza,
like I said, was up early one morning
driving to go meet some ultralight pilot friends of his
to go flying and he saw this object
and then he saw it kind of go down
like it was going down.
And he jumped off the freeway
and he drove up this farm called Milini Farm
and he came upon
maybe a football sized field of debris
and one very large piece of the cigar shaped UFO
that was kind of a metallic light
that was still intact,
but a lot of bits that were not intact.
And he jumped out of his car.
He ran up and he said there were like these
like tin foil type pieces.
He wasn't thinking extraterrestrial.
He thought it was a government thing.
He didn't know what it was.
He thought there were some people that were in trouble.
Yeah, he thought there was people in trouble.
He wanted to help them.
He never, ever, ever did he think alien,
not one time, not till after what I'm about to tell you.
So then I don't want to give too much away,
but he held one of the pieces
and he said it was light as a feather,
very similar to what the description of the people at Roswell
where he could take it and crumple it up
and then it would rebound and reshape itself.
But he said it was light, like just so light
you could barely feel it in your hands.
He was looking at her going, the hell is this?
And then all of a sudden these military trucks
start rolling him.
They take guns out and they threaten him.
And he gets in his car and they force him to leave
and it was all rather terrifying for him.
And he off he goes and he was collecting himself,
I don't know, half an hour down the road
at a gas station, went in to get a coffee
and that's when he had a visit from these men
that basically knew his name and knew everything about him
and warned him of keeping his mouth shut.
This was right after?
It's pretty much right after, I think within an hour
or half an hour or something like this.
And a couple months after the incident
he met with a famous UFO researcher
by the name of Claudio Kovoh
and he gave one brief on-camera statement
and then he vanished for 26 years.
Well, Marco and his associates
because I kept saying 10 years ago
I was like, we've got to find the crash.
We've got to find Carlos.
Like we've got to find the guy but he was just vanished.
I think it took us like eight years
and we found him.
Marco found him.
Anyway, we got him.
So then roughly, let's see,
it would have been the morning of January 13th
so the afternoon of January 20th
you've got all sorts of reports
of unusual activity in the town of Arginia.
You're getting reports of weird strange creatures.
Nobody said ET.
It was like, what the hell are these creatures?
The fire department was called.
It was five days.
Wow.
About five days, yeah.
And the distance, I think the distance between the crash
and the sighting in the town of Arginia
is somewhere in the realm of 12 to 15 miles.
Wow.
Something like that.
And so you're getting these reports.
The most compelling reports came from,
civilian reports, came from three girls.
It was Katia, Liliani and Valkyria.
And Valkyria and Liliani are two sisters
and then Katia was a little older.
She's 21 and it was like 14 and 16.
And they were going through a little field
on the outskirts of town, but in the town.
And they saw this creature in broad daylight.
I think it was like three o'clock in the afternoon.
Crouched against a cinder block wall
and we're like, you know, looking at this thing,
like what the heck are we looking at here?
And it had, it was weak.
It had spindly arms and legs.
It had like a brown oily skin, almost like a kidney or something.
Do you know what I mean?
Like it was like an exposed organ.
And it had, and they shrieked when they looked at it
and then it turned and made eye contact.
Two of the girls, I think it was Liliani and Valkyria,
took off and Katia got completely mesmerized
by making eye contact with it.
There was some level of communication that was happening.
And Katia was kind of frozen in her tracks.
She was about eight feet, maybe 10 feet away from it.
And it was, it was feeble.
It was scared according to Katia.
It wanted help, like get me out of here kind of thing.
Help, according to Katia.
The other two girls got, I don't know, 50 or 70 feet away
and were like, where's Katia?
We got to go back and get Katia.
And they ran back and it was Liliani,
ran back and grabbed Katia and broke her stare
and yanked her out of there.
And then they reported they went running home to their mother
and they were like telling her what, you know,
and they thought it was something of the devil,
like it was a devil or something.
Did she say anything about any kind of communication
between the being and her?
Yeah, well, telepathically.
I asked her about that.
Yeah, because I said, this is where the title came from.
I said, and I didn't even realize this at the time.
I said, because I wanted to know, I know it was very brief.
It was probably just a couple of seconds,
but a lot can happen in that moment
in a couple of seconds time slows down.
Right.
And you kind of get, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, so I said during that moment of contact,
was there any level of communication?
If so, what was said?
What did you feel?
And she says there was obviously no words or anything,
but it was like, I'm scared.
I'm weak.
I'm scared.
And I need help.
That was what she got.
And Katia was staying behind in Liliani and Valkyrie
and ran back and grabbed her.
Katia was the oldest.
She was 21.
And so they run back to their mother's house,
the two sisters with Katia and the mother says,
we're going to, let's go back.
And then the two sisters weren't,
didn't want to go so that she went back with Katia.
It was the oldest one.
So the mother went back and they found a footprint where it was
and just the strongest smell of like ammonia.
Just, they said the smell was just like paralyzing,
like a hundred thousand times worse than a skunk.
Just a smell.
I had somebody say to me that seemed to be in a position to know,
but I don't know.
It could be complete speculation because everybody had talked
about the smell of this thing,
that when certain creatures get scared,
they have this, they excrete something that can protect them
or paralyze those around them to protect,
do you know what I mean?
And like a skunk does.
A lot of people thought that that's what these creatures did.
It was like a sulfur mix with ammonia.
Sulfur ammonia, they said it was the worst,
like it was just paralyzingly bad.
Katia was in your nose for like a week.
Yeah, everybody talked about that.
So in any case, so the mother,
I don't know if I'm going into too detail,
the mother went back and smelled the smell
and saw the footprint of, you know, this weird creature,
which I actually have a drawing of the footprint
if you want to see it.
Yeah, yeah.
They drew the pictures or they had an artist do a rendition
from their description.
No, the mother actually drew the footprint for me
right there on the spot.
Let's see if I have it here.
Watch me not have it.
I saw it last night when I was going through this.
Yeah, I think it's in there.
Okay, here we go.
This could be it.
But it's basically like two digits,
like two digits like this with one appendage
that looks like it maybe comes out
when it's trying to beat by, when it's standing up
and when it's not standing up, it looks like this.
Kind of like so it can walk.
Right.
I'll keep discreetly looking here, you guys.
That's right there.
Oh, there it is.
Boom.
Wow.
Okay.
Yep.
Good.
So kind of around, around paw with three long fingers.
This is exactly where you can see that.
Pull it back behind the mic right there.
Yeah.
Okay.
So this is exactly where the encounter,
this is exactly where the encounter took place.
And these are the three witnesses.
That's Katya, Valkyria, and Liliani.
And this exact location and this photograph
was taken in 1996.
Right after that.
Right after it happened.
Yes.
Uh-huh.
And then you've got.
Hold this up by the microphone real quick.
You've got it.
You see the footprint.
That was the footprint of the creature
and the mother who saw the footprint.
Do this for me.
Little bit higher.
There you go.
Perfect.
Yeah.
Crazy.
Do that for me.
And a lot of witnesses I talked to had seen the foot in the hospital.
So, um, later that day, only a few blocks away, there were two military officers on patrol.
Nobody was talking ET.
Okay.
Nobody had mentioned ET.
The girls thought it was the devil.
They were very religious.
Right.
Mother didn't know what, you know, the girls saw, um, later on that day, two military
officers, Eric Lopes and his guy named Marco Chorizzi.
And when you're in the police, it's like the fire department's part of the military.
The police is part of the military, military police.
So these two officers were on patrol looking for something unusual.
They didn't say UFO crash and there was ET walking around.
Right.
They were driving around and they're just a couple blocks away and it's around 5.30
p.m.
There are a couple blocks away from where the girls encountered.
And by the way, I talked to a lot of people that had that, that area, uh, of Virginia
completely cordoned off by the military, like military blockades all around there.
And I talked to a lot of, I have them on camera, but they were armed and like, you're not walking
one step further, including the local news outlets.
I interviewed them as well.
So they cordoned off the area that I'm, that I'm talking about right now.
And that's where the girls at the encounter and two blocks away at 5.30 p.m.
Where military officers, Marco Chorizzi and Eric Lopes saw this creature run across the
road in front of them, slammed on his brakes, Marco jumps out the passenger door and grabs
this thing with his bare hands.
And he takes it and he puts it in the backseat on his lap.
Believe it was the backseat on his lap on his lap.
Yes.
And they take it initially to a clinic in the town of Virginia and the guy comes out and
says, I don't know what the heck that thing is.
Get it out of here.
I've no, what are you guys doing kind of thing?
And so they go to another hospital called hospital regional.
And at which point the creature remains in hospital, regional hospital.
The creature remains in regional hospital for, I'm not sure exactly how long, but it
ultimately ended up in Humanitas Hospital.
And we have testimony from doctors that performed certain things as well as military guys that
drove the creature.
We have the whole, the entire area where the creature was.
So they captured two creatures.
One was alive and I think the other one was not alive.
The one that Eric Lopes caught that you said was in his lap in the car, was that one alive
or dead?
It was alive.
That one was still alive.
Yeah.
But very little resistance.
So he got a cut on his arm, kind of on his shoulder like right here during the capture
of it, whether it scratched him with a nail or I don't know what exactly happened, but
he got infection and within days, week or whatever it was, he went into the hospital.
The doctor administered antibiotics and he said he'd never in all of his years prior
or since seen anything like it.
Marco trees, perfectly healthy 23 year old young man got this like complete immune system
failure and he died.
And we interviewed the family that his sister, we interviewed the doctor who worked on him.
And they wanted to put him in the ground as soon as possible.
I couldn't believe that you actually got the doctor on camera and the doctor that treated
him.
I know it's crazy.
Right.
What, what did he say?
What was he looking for?
What did he see when he was treating Eric?
He just said that he'd never in all of his career and he's been in there for like 40
plus years.
He's never seen someone with an infection from a simple cut like that have a complete immune
system failure and not respond to any of the antibiotics.
And he pumped him full of everything and nothing worked at all.
And he just his health just went down and he died.
There was some sort of mention of a granular toxin.
Yeah, I know.
I didn't quite.
Yes.
We have the autopsy reports, which the family had to fight to get we interviewed.
We, I didn't interview his wife.
His wife was interviewed one time very briefly, never seen the light of day by Roger Lear.
Roger Lear.
Dr. Roger Lear is a UFO researcher.
He used to take allegedly implants out of people.
And when Roger Lear found out that I was making this movie years ago, 2014, he was adamant
that he wanted to talk with me.
He wanted to get together and I sincerely wanted to talk to him too.
But I was investigating Rua at the time and I was kind of back burning back burning Virginia
case.
Long story short, he sent me.
He said, well, if I can't, if you can't get me on camera, you got to have my tapes.
I went to Virginia in 2002 and I documented a bunch of witnesses, some of whom have gone
off the radar completely forever.
Those tapes had never seen the light of day.
I transferred the tapes, had them digitized and then Dr. Roger sent them back to Dr. Roger
Lear and then he died.
And so I never got a chance to talk to Dr. Roger Lear, but I got his tapes.
And one of those tapes, he interviewed the wife of Marco Tresi.
Nobody's ever done that.
Nobody's even going to get a hold of it.
But nobody had ever managed to get the driver, Eric Lopes.
He'd been in hiding for like 26 years.
Marco.
What's the name of the guy who died again?
Marco Tresi.
That was Marco.
Marco Tresi died.
Yes.
He was the guy that leapt out of the passenger seat and grabbed this creature, apparently.
And the guy who was driving the car has never been.
Now, I wouldn't even talk to the family of the guy who deceased.
The guy who was driving the car, that's the guy who basically was trying, was about to
shoot you guys.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a crazy story.
You know, and we interviewed the town mayor.
He was like, yeah, this is unbelievable as this sounds.
I believe this actually happened.
I interviewed the local news station, you know, saying the same thing.
They completely threatened to lock us up.
If we asked one more question at the military base as a to lock up the local media in the
in prison for asking questions, they came down so hard.
And then, you know, I don't want to give away too much of the film, the storyline, but
because I want to ruin it for anybody.
But but they they shut it down.
They shut the story down.
And then we came to the realization not for about 10 years on my last trip to Virginia,
which was just last year, we came to the realization that the U.S.
government was 100 percent involved and that they arrived and they took we talked to the
radar operator who saw the plane coming in and saw you U.S.
Air Force plane United States Air Force airplane come in and it came into the exact area where
we knew the body was because we drove.
We interviewed the guy who drove the body to the location and then the United States
Air Force plane came in.
Yeah.
And then flew out in and out.
Yeah.
Wow.
So heavy.
Highly likely, extremely likely that one of the reasons for the level of secrecy is that
the Brazilian government would be exposing the U.S.
government by revealing what they know.
So I'm just guessing here.
But there are some pretty crazy aspects that we uncovered during during meeting the witnesses
and stuff that you just go, Jesus, like really guys in suits from some unknown government
agency coming and trying to like intimidate and influence testimony and offering large
sums of money.
Bribes.
Yeah.
Bribes.
And then you've got like the lead UFO researcher on the case, Uber Ejada Rodriguez, who's a
lawyer in the town of Virginia, who suddenly after writing a book does a complete 180 and
he won't even talk to anybody anymore.
Paccacini, the same thing.
Florio Coville's unfortunately passed.
But so they managed to like get the lead UFO researchers to either recant what they said
previously or made to print in a book or just go silent altogether and never comment on
the case ever again.
And then threatening the witnesses and say, I never heard a witness say to me, they said
they're going to kill me.
They just say that the the consequences of revealing what you know would be extremely
severe.
The punishment would be extremely severe.
And then ask, you know, how's the family?
That kind of thing.
So right.
Right.
So yeah.
So now as crazy as it all sounds, and I think I told your audience earlier, don't believe
a single word I'm telling you because I wouldn't if I were you.
But but this story happened.
One of the parts that freaked me the fuck out the most was the interview with the X-ray
technician.
Crazy.
What what did he say specifically like, how was his description of it?
Just working it, working a lot, you know, working in the in the hospital one night, one late
afternoon or an evening and military trucks pulled up.
And they're like, this is you're going to be doing some work for us.
He was like, OK, like what exactly am I doing here?
And they had an object in a black body bag.
He said it's stank to no end.
And it was kind of smaller.
But he said that they were armed guards in there watching his every move.
Look at him in the eyes.
You just perform this.
You can't look at the X-rays for the first time in history.
He couldn't look at the X-rays because he always verifies to make sure they come out.
Couldn't look at the X-rays.
They just looked at him very carefully.
And then and then he performed his duties.
And then they said, don't you ever talk about any of this stuff?
And they said he said he X-rayed the skull.
Yeah.
All torso.
All of it.
The whole thing.
He actually thanked us when at the end of it, I mean, I think Marco lay out on my partner,
co-producer, who's amazing, Brazilian.
He said that, oh, I think he spent like eight years because he found him in the hospital
through a student that he revealed the story to once.
But he was still working at the hospital.
He was like, I'll never, never, ever reveal.
And then he retired and then we worked on him and Marco worked on him for a couple more years after after he was retired.
And then he finally agreed, provided we shoot the back of him.
But we got a photograph of him at the hospital.
We shoot the back of his head and disguised his voice that he'll come forward.
And at the end of it, he said, I feel so much better.
Thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to share this story because I've been holding this on my shoulders for 26 years.
And they all were very quite honest.
Could you imagine if that something like that happened and you couldn't talk about it?
That's a big deal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really big deal.
Man, it's it's compelling how a lot of those interviews are.
Those people had to, they demanded to be interviewed from the rear and have their voices change and completely be censored.
100%.
It was that or nothing.
So it seems like the thing that would blow this out of the water is if it's just crazy that there's this whole story happened.
There's all this evidence from everybody.
All these people are willing to talk, but still we can't get a photo or a video clip.
All we get is, can we show the drawing?
Wasn't there a rendition of the creature hiding?
There's an artist at a rendition of the creature kind of like huddled, like crouched in the corner.
Well, is it online?
Well, I do have the actual creature that the girls gave me.
They said it was the most accurate depiction of what the creature looked like, but it's a little model.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Because I don't have that really high level drawing.
I don't have that with me.
Let me grab it.
Okay.
Hold on one second.
It's like superglue.
We'd probably do it.
The head fell off.
There's superglue here.
We'll fix it after.
Oh, man.
So it's this shiny brown creature.
Well, they, you know, I generally try to, you know, avoid little trinkets like that because there's somewhat cheesy paraphernalia for UFOs.
The girls who came into contact with that creature allegedly said that this was the most accurate depiction of what the creature looked like, and that's why I brought it.
Wow.
I don't know if you want me to see if I can hold it.
The reason why I have this is because the girls gave this to me and said that this is the only...
Straight forward.
Like facing me.
There you go.
The only depiction of the creature that is totally accurate is exactly what they saw.
And it was given to me by...
And how big was it?
It was like about four and a half feet, maybe?
Four and a half feet tall?
Wow.
Brown oily skin, big eyes, scared, cowering, non-threatening.
It was non-threatening.
It was scared.
That image, that drawing isn't anywhere on Google.
It's strange because it matches all the traditional depictions of the alien beings.
Except for the eyes.
Except for the eyes and its brown skin.
Yes.
And it had ridges.
There you go.
There's a bunch of them.
All right.
So that's pretty accurate.
That one up right, yeah, it's pretty accurate.
That's pretty accurate.
So it had this brown skin and red eyes.
Yeah.
It wasn't evil looking.
Yeah, some of these renditions try to make it look evil.
Oh, look at that one.
Go up.
Left, yeah.
Yeah, that doesn't...
Yeah, those aren't...
That's too big and it wasn't reaching out.
It's the wrong position.
It was crouched.
I mean, if you could see, like all it did, okay, the entire time it was crouched.
It had its arms kind of between the legs, like this, right?
And when the girl screamed, it went like this.
And that was it.
It didn't get up.
It didn't come after them.
It just turned to look them right in the eyes.
Did they say it made any noise?
No, they didn't, but others did.
There were witnesses and we actually have them in the movie where they say kind of sounded
like a cricket, like a cricket.
Yeah, I can't replicate.
There were people in the hospital, once they took the alien that had died, it was partly
covered up, but there was people in there who said they saw the feet of it kind of hanging
out and they were all just looking at each other in bewilderment, not knowing what to
do or what to say.
Yes.
Yes.
I said to that witness, I said, put me in that hospital room.
Right.
What was the feeling like?
What was the atmosphere like?
What were the doctors doing?
What were the other military officers doing?
And he said they were all scared, like they were all feeling in over their heads, like
what are we looking at?
What is going on here?
Do you know what I mean?
Everybody was freaked out.
He said he's looking at these feet.
I think he had another appendage that when it stood up, it did that because, but yeah,
it's a truly crazy story, but there are other crazy stories like those talking about the
Rua incident, which is different because they were in control.
Right.
Here, these creatures were clearly not in control.
They were scared.
Which is so crazy, man.
You always think of in these stories of the creatures being the ones in control.
They're the ones who have the upper hand.
In this case, this thing was all alone and in distress.
That is what makes it so insane to me.
Oh, my gosh, what's going to tell you?
So I flew my drone.
Yeah.
I learned I fly remote control airplanes.
And I remember years ago, I was like learning to fly remote control airplanes.
So I put cameras on them and then of course the drones.
And so I my drone, I take it everywhere I go just to get aerial photography of cases, right?
And I took it way up and I pointed the camera straight down because I wanted to document
the area where the girls came in contact with this being allegedly.
And you could see the block the military blockade where that was from a different witness.
Then you could see where the girls saw the creature in this one little area.
And then you could see where the capture occurred.
We were all like coming to the realization.
Wow.
This the vast majority of this occurred in a rather small area like, I don't know, within
eight, 10 blocks.
Right.
And then the family that we rented and we airbnbed a big house on the outskirts of town.
It's fairly secure.
And the owners of the house were doctors and they were like, what are you guys doing here?
And we told them, you know, we're making this stuff.
Oh, okay.
We're all have really good friends have a story.
So we end up going to their house.
It took like a couple of the days because they really didn't want to talk on camera.
And then they wanted to just, they were like, oh, no, we weren't going to go on camera.
We just wanted to tell you where they're doctors and they were worried about the impact it would
have on their careers and their credibility.
And they didn't want to, they were like, no, we're just going to tell you it.
Not on camera.
We just wanted you to know what happened.
We were like, well, okay, well, why don't I film you from the, you know.
You think all this camera equipment's here for you to not reuse it?
Yeah.
So long story short, what we realized is that we had done an overhead shot of the cap of
the encounter site, the military blockade site, the capture site, according to witnesses,
all with one shot and the home of the witnesses that we were just about to interview the whole
family, the mother, the husband and the daughter.
And they all watched this thing for about 12 to 15 minutes.
And we realized in the middle of the interview, wait a minute, the proximity to these witnesses,
to the girls' witnesses, to the capture, to the military blockade, it's all right here.
So we have testimony from an entire family that watched that night in January, right
around midnight, a UFO, according to the entire family of doctors, looking for something.
And it was doing a grid search over the area where the girls had seen it, where the capture
happened, where it all happened.
That, to me, was so compelling because I'm going, wait a minute, now you've got witnesses
describing a recovery effort.
You've got very compelling testimony of people witnessing.
And I actually interviewed four people that all claimed of this disc shaped craft that
was looking for something.
Doing sort of a grid movement.
If we left our people behind, I'm sure we would be looking for something too.
I know it sounds so crazy, I really do.
But you didn't put this, they didn't put two and two together.
No, they said they were looking for something.
I said, how do you know?
They were doing this grid search.
Everybody said it was looking for something.
Then I was like, wait a minute.
I think we just accidentally captured their home from my drone.
And I'm looking at the drone shot.
And I've got their home, which is like say, you know, like, here, let's just show you.
So we got overhead shot.
This is representing of about 10 city blocks, maybe a little bit more.
Right.
This is the road where the capture happened.
This is the little area where the girls came direct contact with the creature.
This is where the military blockade was.
And this is the home of the family we interviewed.
It's all right here.
It all took place.
Yeah.
Man, it was incredible.
I had goosebumps.
So I was, we were all just going, oh my God, they were looking for their people.
Clearly.
What the hell else are they looking for?
If you are to believe the accounts of the people that you met and I believed all of them,
no question about it.
Can I have some of this liquid death?
Oh, absolutely.
Hell yeah, man.
That's for you.
Awesome.
This is water in a bottle.
Water in a can.
Water in a can.
I really like that because I hate plastic.
I always feel so bad about all the plastic.
Yeah.
So this is recyclable.
Death to plastic.
Aluminum.
Murder your thirst.
Murder your thirst.
I'm going to do that right now.
Did you get any sense from any of them whether this being was a biological entity compared
to possibly being some sort of robot or humanoid sort of drone or clones?
Because you think when these creatures visit us, if they're coming from some place far
away, similar to the way we look at Mars, we send robots, why would they come here themselves?
So there's so many unanswered questions.
But according to the witnesses that I interviewed personally, that being was a sentient being.
It had emotion, it had intelligence, it had fear, it was scaring, it was non-threatening.
It was scared and it was feeble and having a hard time.
So I mean, it's kind of sad, you know, when you think about it.
I started thinking like, gosh, you know, how did they treat this thing?
You know, were they kind to it?
Did they try to make any kind of communication?
What did the authorities do?
How long did it live?
Did it live for weeks or days?
I just wish I knew, you know.
I need to find the counter, like once it left the soil, the Brazilian soil.
We have very compelling testimony that it did.
What happened to it?
Was it alive?
How long did it live?
How long did it live?
Was there any level of communication with it?
You know, all these questions I have unanswered, I'm just dying to know.
And I'm going to continue researching this case in the United States because I'm going
to start finding out.
I know we're a bunch of, I know of a bunch of evidence, photographic evidence, videotaped
evidence, filmed evidence, and now physical debris evidence with bodies.
I'm very confident that some unknown government agency or outside government agency, whether
it's an independent contractor for the United States government, has got this stuff.
Now my objective moving forward is where is it and who has the authority to release it?
And I want to know if there are any Americans out there that were involved in this case.
In fact, if there's any of them listening to this podcast right now, please reach out.
They can get in touch with you or they can email me at James C. as in Charlie Fox, James
C. Fox at gmail.com.
And I'd love to hear from you.
What are the obstacles for you in order to get your hands on footage of something like
this or photos of something like this?
Like what are the biggest obstacles?
What are the, what do the people that have them have to lose?
The people, unfortunately, are terrified.
People that, the higher the stakes, like the, this has been across the board with pretty
much every case I've ever investigated, you have people that are just legitimately scared
and the more better evidence they have, the better, the better the encounter, like the
girls encountered this thing, the mother had men in suits come and intimidate her.
And I absolutely believed her, no question.
The guy that watched it crash had men in suits come up to him and intimidate him, scared
him, spooked him.
People with photographic or videotaped evidence are terrified.
I can't emphasize that enough.
Let's just speak hypothetically for a moment.
Okay.
Obviously, I'm covering this case.
Clearly, I want to uncover photographic, videotaped evidence.
I mean, come on, man, it's obvious.
If you don't think I'm going after that, then you need to read, readjust your thinking.
There's nothing.
It's the holy grail, right?
Uh, how do you execute?
Let's just say hypothetically that you did identify someone with evidence like that and
you offer them a significant compensation for it.
Either they don't want, they're too, they're too scared.
There's no money amount of money.
Well, let's just say they, they do agree to take money.
How do you get a hundred grand or 200 grand cash?
They, uh, into Brazil.
Uh, you can't even take more than 10 grand with them asking you questions.
They're watching you.
I know the military base is watching me.
They've already called all around a half the witnesses I've talked to.
It's in a Bitcoin.
Yeah.
I had some people say, yeah, some of the alternative currency, but, but, you know,
how do you do the handoff?
How do you get it out of the country?
Do you upload it to a server?
Like this is all logistical things that, uh, and, and then you have people that are
just terrified.
I mean, look at Eric Lopes, the driver of the car.
He's been in hiding for 26 years.
He threatened to shoot everybody when we got to his property.
He's not messing around.
What did they tell him?
Right.
Like, you know, is it not just threatening him, but his family?
Like, what would get a guy to literally say he was going to shoot him?
He wouldn't even give a statement to the family of his buddy who was in the
passenger seat.
Like, think about that for a minute.
He wouldn't give a statement to the family of his buddy who died after holding
that handling that creature.
What on earth?
It's like, he grew up.
Those two grew up together.
They were good friends, like the fact that he, you know, I mean, isn't that so
you just kind of have to, you know, fill in the blanks a little bit.
It's, it's not easy.
It's not easy going after, you know, videotape, photograph.
That stuff has a weird way of disappearing.
Um, it's horrible.
I know it's like, I mean, there's nobody on the planet, probably trying
harder than I am, but I mean, no civilian that I could think of.
I'm giving it 110% 24 seven, you know, and I look, I'll be incredibly
satisfied if our film comes out and it triggers other evidence and testimony
to come forward and that maybe that's a part of another project that somebody
else does or I do.
I don't really care.
I want it out.
Well, of course, of course, we know there's that kind of evidence out there.
We know that.
Now, John Mack, the Harvard psychiatrist, did he interviewed the girls in
some or the, all the girls and the boys in Zimbabwe after that, that thing
happened, but he also interviewed, did he also talk to the people in Virginia?
Yes.
Yes.
That's fascinating.
How did he get in touch with them?
How is it that almost no Americans and even the UFO community researchers
know very little about this case, you had two people that I know of Americans
that investigated, excuse me, Roger Lear and Dr.
John Mack, they're both deceased.
Dr.
John Mack is really funny because I was investigating the Ruiz Zimbabwe case.
That's that landing at Ariel School in 1994.
I think it was September and we're roughly a hundred school children were out
in broad daylight and they all witness a couple of disc-shaped craft come down
and land in the field next to their playground and they all ran out with great
curiosity and came face to face with beans very similar to what the girl,
you know, the big eyes, spindly arms and legs about four feet tall.
There was telepathic communication that occurred.
Sounds totally unbelievable, but I'm pretty sure that the case happened as
well.
In fact, I'm convinced it did.
But Dr.
John Mack was investigating that case and he was doing so at the behest of
Lawrence Bellman Rockefeller, who was funding a lot of his efforts at the time.
Rockefeller was putting pressure on the Clinton administration.
He was funding researchers, Harvard Psychiatrists, Dr.
John Mack, Harvard tried to fire John Mack because of his association with
UFOs and alleged abductees and the work that he was doing.
And apparently Lawrence Bellman Rockefeller picked up the phone and called
said, you know, those those grants you guys like getting from the Rockefeller
Foundation? Well, if this guy gets fired, those are all gone.
So anyway, so he was funding him.
And so so you had John Mack investigating with the camera crew in
Africa. Two years later, you got this another amazing case in Virginia,
Brazil. He's interviewing the witnesses there two years apart, two years apart.
The nineties were amazing.
Like think of the two of some of the best cases ever.
That massive broad daylight mass sighting over Arizona.
That's such a good case, man.
Even the governor saw it that massive.
You had the Phoenix lights, Phoenix lights.
You had the 50th anniversary of Roswell.
You had the people coming forward from Roswell because in 1997, a lot of them
weren't dead yet. A lot of them had died, but a lot of them had not died.
So you had the Roswell thing.
You had that you had the Belgian UFO wave, which was the late 80s, but early
nineties as well. You had 94.
You had the landing at the school in Africa in 96.
You had the crash in Virginia in 97.
You had the massive flyover of the state of Arizona, the Phoenix lights.
I mean, my God, that was a hot.
I was what an exciting 90s. So hot.
I mean, you cover in phenomenon, the 80s, you know, during the Cold War,
I cover a lot of they targeted these nuclear facilities.
Like there were many settings.
I love the way you I love the way you showed the graphic of the world
and you showed the timeline of every nuclear bomb ever detonated.
Yeah. Crazy.
I was Lance Mungy's idea.
It was a brilliant idea. That was brilliant.
Yes, Lance, let's do that.
I had no idea we put these detonated so many nukes.
I know. Isn't it crazy?
Those stories of like the UFOs over these these top secret
yes, so these of shutting these things off.
Fascinating.
That was an afterthought because.
I was pretty much wrapping up the phenomenon.
Of course, you get the front page of the New York Times revealing that Pentagon UFO program.
And then I was interviewing the former sentiment majority leader,
Harry Reid, who had initiated a tip.
Bigelow and everybody else.
And I don't know why, for some reason, during the sit down interview,
I didn't ask this question and that was bad on me.
But when after the fact, I was walking, I said to Senator Reid,
hey, do you mind really quickly if I get a quick B roll shot of the two of us walking?
And he's like, OK, and he had just a couple of minutes.
And so he had like these security guys detail kind of looking at me.
And I couldn't even get near him without them looking at me all funny.
It's kind of weird.
You're big, brute guys, you know.
And I said, OK, if I stand next to him, we'll walk down the hall.
OK, you know, they were walking.
And I said, what was one of the more astonishing aspects
of the phenomenon that you uncovered during this Pentagon UFO program?
And he immediately said the fact they're shutting off our nukes.
And I thought, oh, my God, I just got that on camera with Senator Harry Reid.
That's an aspect of the phenomenon when I have to cover in the movie.
That's I went back to some researchers and I that was the last thing we did.
That was the last aspect of the phenomenon that we put in the film.
But but in any case, getting back to John Mack,
I was following his work in Africa,
kind of picking up where he left off with that case.
Randall Nickerson also did a film on just Rua, which is which is I think it's out now
called Aerial Phenomenon.
He was very helpful in and helped me put me in touch with some of the witnesses.
But in any case, I was following Dr.
John Mack and then to my astonishment, when I got to Brazil,
I uncovered archival tapes of John Mack in Brazil.
So John Mack was doing a lot of like like cutting edge
investigations in the 90s that he never really saw through to fruition
because he was struck down, I think, in the early 2000s by look the wrong way.
People think it's a big conspiracy that he was killed.
I really don't believe that he looked the wrong way in London.
I've done it. It's easy to do.
You go across the street and you know, especially if you don't spend a lot of time there,
you don't know the way traffic flows, got a couple of beers in your belly
and you just look the wrong way.
Yeah, you know, you just go jump across the street.
So you look, you know, used to looking this way, you know.
So unfortunately, he was run down and died.
But it was amazing to see him.
He was like at the forefront of a lot of these incredibly compelling cases.
And I'm so glad they're coming out now, you know.
Yeah, like Virginia happened.
How many years ago was it?
It's 96 28 years ago.
Is that 28?
Close to 28.
My wife was born in 96.
I think she's 28. OK.
Wow. Wow.
So it's almost three decades.
It's taken for the story to really come out in the United States.
Right.
Virginia is known pretty well.
And it's funny, actually.
They they put their spin on it the same way like we're with Roswell in the United States.
I think that's changed a little bit recently.
But like when I hired a local talent from Rio de Janeiro, this audio guy, twice.
Two different audio guys.
And they were laughing.
Oh, we're going to go investigate Virginia, you know, you know, kind of thing.
And then at the end of it, after they met the witnesses, they were like,
whoa, this happened like, you know, yeah.
But they kind of had that that that level of disinformation
that had kind of swirled around the Brazil.
But that's that too now is changing.
And I think there's going to be a lot of questions once this film comes out.
Yes.
It really exposes this case, unlike it's ever been exposed.
Well, the most fascinating thing to me about the Rua incident
is the telepathic communication that they that they all explain to John Mac.
The videos with John Mac are are fascinating.
How he's talking to him and they're explaining this things like,
I don't know how long after the incident it was for people that I don't know.
Maybe if people don't know, you can give kind of like the bullet points of that.
Sure. So so there was a sighting of a UFO
over probably a three or four or five day period in South Africa,
as well as which is just to the north.
Zimbabwe, Harari is the capital of Zimbabwe.
And then there's a school in a town called Rua,
which is maybe an hour or 45 minutes away from from Harari.
And the school's called Ariel School.
And it was like, I want to say September 1994.
And they were roughly they'll say 66.
But no, no, they were roughly I went there and I talked to the teachers.
There were roughly 100 schoolchildren playing outside it during recess.
It was like 10 30 in the morning.
And they suddenly saw these objects that look like a disk.
And they were coming down and and landed.
And the next thing they knew and a lot of the, you know, either
either the kids all saw the UFO, some of them came, saw the creatures from further away.
Others saw the creatures face to face, like I would ask, you know,
some of the witnesses, well, how close did you get to these
this being or whatever you call it?
And they were like, oh, arms reach like I could touch them.
Yeah. And there was this apparent.
Oh, so within, I think, a week or two.
Dr. John Mack, this Harvard psychiatrist.
Again, I was telling you he was being funded for research,
general research on the on the phenomenon by Lawrence Rockefeller,
gets a camera crew and flies to Africa and goes to aerial school
within a week or two.
And so he interviews, I think it was 66 kids on camera
right after it happened, all talking about what they saw.
Some of them had a download.
They would look at the creature in the eyes.
And that's when they would there was a communication with imagery.
And they were talking about imagery, imagery.
Like, like, well,
so I'll talk about the communication.
I can also talk about another thing, which is kind of crazy.
But they they they had this telepathic communication they described as
like images of environmental destruction, fires, like the earth is
like we're having an impact, a deleterious impact on the
on the earth, on the environment, our presence, technology, this kind of thing.
And the kids were young.
They never thought about climate change.
This is 1994.
I mean, you know, nobody's written anything about climate change.
That was in the mainstream.
So they reported that.
But also, and this didn't make it in the film.
And this is something that I've only shared a couple of times,
but it's something really delightful about this.
So I heard this directly from the witnesses,
the children now adults, they said,
so they had these very defined areas of the playground
because it was Africa.
They had these big telephone pole like things that would define
the absolute outer perimeter of where the kids were allowed to play.
And because they were like dangerous snakes and whole grass
and spiders and this sort of thing.
So they everything was like groomed within that area.
And then the children weren't allowed to go beyond those
those poles or telephone poles.
But what they would do is is they would go,
children being children, they'd go and they'd they'd skip and dance
on top of the poles at that furthest perimeter.
Like like if they went two more inches over to the right,
they were out of bounds, right?
And they would skip along there.
And apparently, according to some of the children,
these beings were mimicking their behavior and skipping with them,
dancing with, yes, I don't know.
Kind of a benign encounter.
But they were they were mimicking their behavior and kind of just,
yeah, isn't that weird?
That's super weird.
I've never heard that part of that.
Yeah, I know.
I didn't put that in the movie, but but I thought that was something
delightful about that, that it was a very benign.
Would they be doing that?
Well, they said to me like this.
Because when I meet a witness, I always want to know.
I like sometimes I even close my eyes and I say, put me there.
I want to be there.
I want every the reason why I close my eyes because your words
need to recreate the scene.
Right. And if my eyes are closed, like, what am I looking at here?
OK, how far away were they?
What was the sky?
Like, what was where were you?
What were you standing?
Like, I want to I want to know every aspect of it.
And this witness said to me.
Have you ever been out in the wilderness?
Like, in the middle of nowhere and had an encounter with a wild animal?
There's this standoff.
This moment we're almost time freezes.
What do you have?
Like a level of curiosity from both
whatever it is you're looking at, the wild animal and you.
It's like you're both frozen and you're observing each other
with with a level of curiosity, a peak curiosity.
You know, what are you?
We're learning to learn about each other.
And like, are you trustworthy?
Is this a threat? Is this what is this?
Curious, very curious.
They said, you know, that's what it was like with the bean.
Like there was it was just as curious about them as they were of it,
you know, and always kind of stuck in my head about that.
How many of them were there, did they say?
Well, there were according to the witnesses, there were multiple UFOs.
One was bigger than the rest.
And I want to say between and they would appear here and then come over here.
Several, several of them.
Yeah, several. Yeah.
Can you pull up the pictures that they drew? Oh, Jordan.
Yeah. Can you see that?
Yeah. Yeah.
So that's just three of them, one in front, two behind.
And this is corroborated by a bunch of the children that were there.
Oh, my God, are you kidding?
Like so many children and this was drawn.
I think this is I'll think of her name in just a second.
Does she put her name on the back?
She put your name on here.
Oh, it'll come to me anyway.
So.
OK, that's interesting.
That shows like eight of them.
But again, I don't know if there are eight.
Like some of them said we saw one.
Others said we saw more than one, you know.
Some of them. Yeah.
Most of the kids saw more than one UFO.
Most of the kids saw more than one and multiple beings, more than.
Yeah, but but not all the kids came within arms arms reach.
OK, OK. Only a handful came back close.
They were gathered around.
So I wanted to to share something really crazy because.
I was in Africa.
And right after.
Right after I left Africa.
I went and I investigated another wild.
I know I went and investigated another
UFO landing case at a school in this case was Westall
and it occurred at night in April of 1966.
OK, but they were like all over 300 witnesses to this case.
300 over 300, including this is a school in school in in Australia.
OK, outside Melbourne. OK, Westall.
I think it was Westall primary or something.
But it's called the Westall incident in 1966.
So I'm I was just in Africa. OK.
And and I had some of these drawings with me.
I was just kind of sharing them a little bit, you know.
And I had very much like the classic alien spindly net long
neck, big head and big eyes.
So anyway, so I'm kind of sharing this and I had someone say.
Bloody hell. I mean, like that looks just like the one Gina.
I said the one Gina.
He said, yeah, the one Gina from the their four thousand year old
cave paintings here in Australia.
So I looked up one Gina.
And I don't know if you.
Yeah, I look at that on the upper right hand, four thousand year old rock art.
Yeah, so click on that one on the upper right if you can.
The big one. Yeah.
And I just have to remind your audience.
This is four thousand years old.
I mean, hello.
Do you see some resemblance?
I mean, yeah, it's kind of crazy, right?
They look they look exactly the same.
That's what I'm saying.
I was just it was spooky to see that.
So resemblance, I mean, these are children in 1994.
It looks like a snake slithering in between all these heads of these creatures
for people that are not watching and only listening.
They it's there are these four thousand year old cave rock paintings from Australia.
And these heads look like the traditional UFO heads with the big eyes,
the big head, the spindly bodies, and there looks like a snake slithering
through it, two tall, skinny looking beings off in the background
and a bird like a anyway.
It's just I mean, could that possibly be a coincidence?
I mean, I don't know, man, but that was just.
And there's obviously.
And this is so these are apparently in some caves.
And how do they how do they date to four thousand years ago?
That you're going to have to talk to, you know, specialists because I don't know.
But that's according to everyone I talk to.
These are thousands of years old right on cave paintings in Australia.
In fact, I almost went to one of them.
And next time I go to Australia, I'm going to go and look at some of this stuff
because it's just like I don't know what the which one that is.
That's interesting.
I mean, it's just the big eyes that that shaved head.
It's just fascinating stuff.
And I think I, you know, this is like the historical
for your audience listening or even watching, you can check out probably
there's a book that's put out by Jacques Valet and it's called Wonders in the Sky.
And he documents ancient
sightings, whether it's cave art or paintings or yeah, historical paintings.
Right on.
It's fascinating.
It's called depicting UFOs depicting you up,
which which cannot be interpreted as anything other than UFOs.
Anyway, there's one drawing that I brought in this briefing document
that I was talking about earlier.
Yeah, pull it. You can pull that one up, Jordan.
I think you have that.
You're looking at earlier in the Madonna.
It's in it.
Mm hmm. It's in a right right there.
Yeah, there you go.
So you have the Madonna with Saint Giovanni Giovanni, oh.
But that's a vacuum.
Yeah, there's tons.
There's lots of these old renaissance and paintings from like the times of antiquity
with religious depictions of Madonna and Jesus and the Virgin Mary
with strange objects in the background.
I think this one shows a guy looking up at it in the sky.
If you yeah, if you can click on that and if you zoomed in,
you could see there's a guy standing there with a dog and they're looking up at it.
So let me. Can I share?
Can I share? Can we go back to Australia?
Yes, yes. This is Westall UFO case.
So I went.
To Australia right after Africa.
And I was fascinating because I it's so hard for me
as a researcher to imagine how a mass sighting like a school
could happen in broad daylight and that the whole world wouldn't know about it.
I just have a really hard time wondering how is that possible?
Do you know what I mean?
So I started investigating, well, with the help of a number of Australians,
researchers, and there was a guy
who was 12 miles or less eight miles away from the school.
It was two days prior.
Usually when there's a UFO sighting, there's always a couple of days
lead up to a whether it's a big event like a landing or something.
Think it's almost like they're kind of casing the joint.
I don't know. You'll always, you know, there's a UFO activity on a big mass
sighting usually for a few days before it does something.
There was a guy that was about, like I said, eight, ten miles away.
His name was James Kibble.
He'd never come forward ever.
His he was out in his garden with a Polaroid.
It was, I want to say April 4th.
I'd have to look at these act, but it was April 4th, 1966.
And he wanted to share the progress of the flowering garden
and at his mother's place.
So he had his Polaroid camera out there.
And then he saw some something glinting in the sky that caught his eye.
And he looked up and he saw this disc
that was according to the witness, James Kibble.
He deceased now.
He sent this to me.
This is a direct scan of his.
He mailed that to you. He mailed this to me.
So it's descending like this.
And yeah, please.
And it's descending like this.
And then all the witnesses at the school that saw this object take off,
they said it was a disc and it went like this.
He goes up like this on its side, and then it shoots up straight up in the air.
Well, that, according to James Kibble,
is the disc that flipped up horizontally like this before it shot off.
A moment later, he said it was like a bullet leaving a gun shot out of there.
Now.
I'll share your share some interesting aspect with your audience.
And that is if you ever see
a UFO photograph with crystal clear, defined edges,
it's probably a fake.
They don't know why, but there's something to do with the propulsion.
They're guessing right that causes the edges to blur ever so slightly.
Like if you look at a legitimate, bona fide, good photograph
that has been like scrutinized to death, like 1950 McMinnville, Oregon,
or 1964, 65,
the UFO worker that snapped off three or four Polaroids.
I'm looking at his face right now.
It'll come to me in a second, but you'll see that the edges
are slightly blurred and according to witnesses
or specialists that I've talked to, that's a pretty good indicator
that coupled with the testimony of the person that shot it.
Santa Ana Rex Heffelin, 1965, he shot, I think, three or four Polaroids
and the edges, the great pictures, points of reference, broad daylight,
light reflecting off the object.
Fantastic.
If you zoomed in on it on the originals, it's slightly the edges
are slightly blurred, just like this one.
But this is like a metallic structured object
that went from this position to this position and then shot off at high
risk speed. Well, it's interesting.
That's exactly how Bob Lazar described those things flying when he was on
S4 testing those scraps.
I learned about that later on.
And I you talk to the witnesses, I I'd never talked to.
Prior to Australia, I'd never talked to someone who described.
I mean, they this thing was sitting on the ground when this when the kids ran
up to it, OK, sitting on the ground right there, broad daylight.
It lifted off, got like 20 feet up, and then it flipped on its side.
And then that's when it rocketed off.
That's what the kids described.
That's what the kids describe. Yes.
So, yeah, Bob is this guy who snapped a picture of it.
This is it in that position right before he said a moment later, it shot off.
I said, described the acceleration to me.
He said like it was being shot out of a gun.
Bang.
Yeah, the the pilots described it at the pilots that saw it off the coast
of San Diego, explained it like you put a ping-pong ball into a cup
and you shook the cup. Yeah.
That's how that's how the motion was.
And then Bob described him flying belly first, like when they when they did the
test flights, which brings me to the picture you showed me last night
of that red glowing object.
OK, well, you show that I can.
I have that on my phone.
I can I can text it to you and you could forward it over to OK. OK.
But, um,
uh, that's that's kind of a bigger story behind that whole thing.
I don't know if that's something that you, you know, want to go into.
Well, as much as you're comfortable with sharing, I'm happy to do it.
Absolutely. I'm happy to do it.
Because that is if that's real, that is one of the most compelling photos
I've ever seen. Yeah. Of of a UFO.
I'm I'm I'm happy to to share that story.
Yes. I just shared a single frame clip of an object.
That's what I basically what I saw.
But I saw a video videotape.
I don't know if you got it yet. I just got it.
I'm forwarding it to you now, Jordan. OK, cool.
So then I'll tell you the story about it because I just
footage that I've seen with my own eyes.
That's truly so is the first time you told the story about this
to Logan Paul's first time you told the story.
Well, I was always kind of hush hush about it for a long time.
I mean, I would tell my friends, yeah, because I was worried about it.
It it I was worried about jeopardizing my efforts to get it.
Why is that so small?
Yeah, blow it up. Make make it bigger. Oh, yeah.
There we go. OK, so.
But I've told the story a couple of times publicly.
And the most detailed was probably when I was on Logan Paul's show
because he's like evidence. Where's the evidence?
And of course, I feel him. I feel like I feel the same way.
I mean, I've got some evidence, you know,
uncovered some nice photographic evidence and video.
So let me tell you the story behind this because it's pretty crazy.
I was doing my first U of O documentary way, way, way back.
Believe it or not, they had cameras back.
I'm old, but not at all.
But and I was interviewing a guy who lived on the outskirts
of Area 51 in the area where you could live.
It's not like restricted, you know, space.
His name is Chuck Clark.
He lived in a double widening.
He was a former military guy and amateur astronomer.
And he had a sighting of something out at Area 51.
And remember, this was kind of around the time that Bob Lazar's story
was coming out, right? Big was this is the early 90s.
I couldn't tell you exactly what year, but early 90s.
And so Chuck and I, he was he was participating in my film.
It's called 50 Years of Denial.
And we were going back and forth for several months.
And I was fascinated by what was going on in Area 51.
I was a very curious person by nature.
So I stayed in touch with Chuck and we we communicated often.
Well, one day he calls me and he goes, I got something to show you.
And I said, OK, well, can you tell me what it is?
He goes, no.
But I'll tell you this much.
When you see it, your jaws can hit the ground.
I said, really? And he's not one for hyperbole.
I mean, Chuck was a pretty mellow guy.
Chuck was a pretty mellow guy.
I said, really? He goes, yeah, really?
I said, I'm getting in my car and I'm driving through there.
It was like 16 hour drive, 14 hour drive.
But I was like, if Chuck says, you know, so I get to I get to
the little alien Chuck lived just a block away in Rachel, Nevada.
Go and do his double wide, super clean trailer, very nice,
like beautifully air conditioned, nice, very clean, nice situation.
And he's got a TV and he's got a VHS tape and he pops his VHS tape.
And he says, sit down, I'll show you, you know, and I see two.
Guys on all I can describe is like the typical road trip.
They're listening to tunes, they're filming out the window,
they're goofing off next to the they go into like the little alien
and they're posing next to the little alien, you know, just goofing off.
Just a road trip. Yeah.
Going to the chat area 51 after all the publicity that Bob Lazar gave
area 51 was a ton.
The first time, right?
Mm hmm.
Bob Lazar story came kind of public in 89, 89, like 92.
But still, it was like making, you know, people were doing tours area 51.
And there were areas that you could go to and look down on the base
that had yet to be closed off if you knew what you're doing.
You know what I mean?
You could still see the base.
That doesn't happen anymore because they bought that section too.
But in any way, they're goofing off, they're posing next to the E.T.
sign, blah, blah, blah, and then all of a sudden the cars parked.
They're in the car, the cars parked, the camera is on probably the armrest.
And it's crooked.
It's not like level because it's just cocked a little bit.
The camera's filming the dashboard, a little bit of the windscreen
and the like the heater and the vents and all that stuff.
And and they're arguing and what it sounds to me like, you can't see them yet.
You can't see them.
It sounds like they're trying to crawl under the seats is what it sounds like.
And they're arguing.
Excuse me.
And all of a sudden, one of them is like, it's over the top of us.
Get down.
Get down.
It's over the top of us.
And I'm like, what the hell is going on?
I'm looking at this video.
What am I looking at here?
What's what's going on?
And that point.
This light like this is the car.
There's a light source above it shooting directly down.
And it's lighting up the inside of the car.
Okay.
But not normally like, like if you just had a spotlight with a helicopter.
No, this light was like a yellowy orange and the shadows inside the car.
You couldn't see the light.
You can only see the effects of the light.
You couldn't see the source of the light.
The shadows on the inside of the car were eerily moving around like the source of the
light was on a pendulum because it was kind of like, like this.
So all the shadows, I'd never seen anything like it on the inside of the car.
We're moving around very fluid, super smooth and fluid.
Right.
It was no abrupt stop or back and it's all fluid.
And one of the guys goes, you know, they were like, it's over the top of us.
It's over the top of us.
I don't know what the hell they're talking about.
I don't know what the hell over the top of us.
I have no idea what they're talking about.
I don't know what I'm looking at.
And at this point, the camera's still filming just the dashboard.
Just the dashboard.
Nobody has it in their hand.
And I hear this, I'm getting out.
And the guy's like, no, stay in the car.
Stay in the car.
I'm getting out.
And he grabs the camera, opens the door.
And I don't remember like pretty sure the camera pans up.
You can see like the desert floor.
You could see like tumbleweed.
I remember seeing like a tumble.
I think I saw a tumbleweed.
It was dark, but it wasn't like it was dusk.
You could still see outlines of the desert.
Right.
Okay.
There outside 100 feet is that.
Okay.
Now, here's the crazy part.
What I remember is that I'm looking at this thing.
Probably 30, 40 feet in diameter.
You could have easily hit it with a rock.
It's sitting in the sky and it's magic.
It's floating silently.
It's kind of rocking like floating.
Like it's like a like a ship on the water.
It's doing this and the skin of the craft looks like it's alive.
Like the molecules are alive.
Like it's glowing like phosphorus on a beach or something.
Right.
And I'm looking at it.
And all I'm thinking of is all the witnesses that I've talked to that
have seen these things at a loss for words to describe what the hell
they're looking at.
Right.
Do you know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Like because it looks alive.
It looks like it looks and it looks like magic.
Like you're just you're you can't even speak.
I was just like.
Like just, you know, like I Chuck Clark was right.
My job was on the floor.
Like I just couldn't believe what I was seeing.
And then the guy offered and the camera goes.
Oh my God.
Like this.
And then BAM.
Oh, the camera shuts off.
Did he shut it off?
Or was it just, you know, like shut down by the vague memory of something like him
saying something about a battery, the battery or something.
But but the camera shut off very pretty quickly.
Camera shut off.
And and that was that.
I looked over at Chuck Clark and I went.
Holy shit.
Like who gave that to you?
Like I need to have that.
I was still in production of my first piece, right?
I was like, I got to have that.
And I just said, and he's like, oh, they're really scared that they they shot
something that that's like a secret, super secret, you know, stealth
government, whatever.
And they're they're terrified.
I said, OK, well, fine.
Give them my telephone number.
Tell them I'll work with them.
They could be anonymous.
Right.
I'll get raised, whatever kind of money.
Are you kidding me?
Like just give them my number.
Right.
Chuck.
And I kept harassing them and calling them and calling them and calling them.
And he had a copy of this video.
He had a VHS copy of it.
Yes.
And.
You know, I hate to say this, you know, you know, it was probably one of my
biggest regrets is I didn't run out of that damn thing.
Had I known that it would never see the light of day, I probably would have
because that's not right.
Like they could be anonymous.
You know, make copy of it at least for how did you get.
Do you can you tell me how you got the screenshot?
So so well, somebody will there's a photograph that was taken in France.
Somebody it's so.
OK, I'm sorry.
I'm just trying to reveal what I can reveal comfortably here.
OK, that's fine.
I do have screenshots that.
Was given to me.
About a year and a half ago.
I got contacted.
I I talked about the story on a podcast.
I just one day said that the hell with it.
I don't care anymore.
Like, you know, what good.
Everybody needs to know I saw this footage with my own eyes.
I swear on my life.
OK.
And I knew there wasn't and I look at a lot of photographs and video.
There's nothing on this one.
OK.
And not only that, but usually when I look at a photograph or some video
footage, I mean, I'm highly dubious.
It's fake.
It's been not one not even zero zero one percent of me said that this
felt the most authentic stuff.
It was just old enough to be before all the special.
No, this was this was phenomenal, man.
OK, trust me when I tell you this.
This was like the this was the.
Most proud.
This is the gold standard by which we're all going after the definitive
piece of videotaped evidence.
This was it.
OK, right.
It was like, this is the holy grail of evidence.
And I saw it with my own damn eyes and the fact that I didn't get my hands on
it.
Anyway, about a year and a half ago, maybe it was two years ago.
I don't remember.
I said the heck with it and I publicly told the story on a podcast
and I get contacted by a guy who's a P.I.
says he does private investigating.
He finds people.
Yeah.
He's like, I heard your story, man.
It's unbelievable.
I'm going after this guy, Chuck Clark.
I said, go for it.
Don't mention my name.
Chuck won't talk to me anymore.
And so I said, good luck.
Let me know how it goes.
And he and he finds Chuck Clark.
He goes, I got his number.
I said, well, give him a call.
So he did.
And so he about maybe a year ago, he went out and met Chuck Clark and Chuck
still had that same VHS tape and it was pretty degraded.
But Chuck actually let him keep a couple frames of it.
I don't know.
Let him shoot a frame off the TV screen.
That's not one of them, but that's exactly like that.
Somebody sent that.
So I don't know where that that particular object.
I don't know exactly where that came from.
Somebody texted it to me and said, is this what it looked like?
I said, yeah.
Now, the difference that I remember is that the one that I saw had like
like if you took a pie and you took a knife and you symmetrically
cut pieces of that pie, very symmetrical, but you didn't remove the pieces.
You just made the seams.
Right.
Right.
Those were darker.
There were like lines that were darker.
Like it was like it was a pie, but it wasn't taken apart.
Right.
But they were perfectly symmetrical.
And I remember that.
I remember that.
And I don't see it there.
But in terms of like the color, orangey yellow and glowing like that,
that's what it looked like.
Like it was alive, like it's phosphorus.
That's so weird.
Yeah, I know.
And I've been being that close to Area 51.
It must have been.
It was right there.
It must have been a test flight by one of the people there.
It could very well have been that.
It could very well.
I have no idea.
But that's what I saw.
And it was flipping.
It was it was magic.
It was like, like you look at it and you have nothing to relate it to
because you've never seen anything like it, not even remotely like it.
It's so foreign to your eyeballs.
Like seeing those shadows on the dash, the way they were moving.
I'm like, the only way you could recreate that is to have a light on a
pendulum above a car at night.
That's bright enough.
Like it is moving so slowly.
Like the shadows are moving around in this fluid motion on the inside of the
car with this light source coming above the windshield was just like,
you've never seen that before.
How would you see that before?
And then when you see the object and it's like, it's like, it's not stable.
It's it's it's kind of wobbling, like maybe slower, but it's kind of
wobbling.
Right.
I mean, like you thought of a boat on the on the ocean.
The way it's kind of move around the ocean like that.
Yeah.
That's what it looked like.
It wasn't stable.
It wasn't like, you know what I mean?
The camera shut off.
But did the kids describe to Chuck or anything?
What happened after that?
Chuck wouldn't tell me.
I mean, always Chuck at we got to find Chuck.
Chuck's in Arizona.
Yeah, he's in Arizona.
Chuck, God damn it.
Release the footage.
Yeah.
And when this private eye went out and checked it out, he said, yeah, Chuck
said that he would never talk to you.
He goes, Chuck said that Chuck said that he told it because he said to me, he
said, if you ask me again, I'm never going to speak to you again.
If you ask me, of course I'm going to ask you again.
Like I I was I was selling.
I think it was out of the blue.
I just sold out of the blue to NBC Universal.
Sorry, my mic away from the mic there.
And there was this guy, Larry Lansman, who was at NBC Universal.
I told him the story.
You know, he was buying my movie sci-fi or whatever.
And he goes, 30 grand, we'll get 30 grand.
No problem for that.
So I was like, OK, I'll reach out to him.
But I don't know how well it's going to go down.
It was like 2009 or 2010.
And I reached out to him and he goes, I'm never talking to you again.
I said, well, I just have 30 grand.
I offer to the kids $30,000.
Like, come on.
Right.
Just talk to them.
He wouldn't even entertain it.
No.
You think he's in a similar situation to some of those people in Brazil,
maybe?
No.
Or those kids are in a similar situation.
No, I don't.
You don't know.
I mean, you show it to everybody.
I mean, I think you keep it in a vault.
He never got it transferred to he never got it digitized.
That footage should have been transferred to beta SP from that bloody VHS tape
from when I saw it, because I can assure you.
VHS tapes deteriorate.
They degrade.
Right.
Go over and you play them over and over that half inch tape.
You know, so that tape is like, who knows how bad it is now, but it's not great.
It's not like, you know, what I saw was pretty phenomenal.
I mean, it was VHS, but it was wow.
It was, I mean, it was like a couple of weeks old when I saw it.
I didn't dilly dally, man.
I went straight out.
I'm not kidding you.
I was like, I was like, okay, I'm going.
Like, I don't know much more time we have, but there was a couple of things that I could
share with you or however you feel.
Yeah, let's share it.
Let's talk about everything.
Well, this is kind of interesting because we'll start with this one first.
This was just something that we stumbled upon when we were making the phenomenon.
We was a tell, I think they call it a telex.
What was it when you send a telegram or a telex?
I have no idea.
In lieu of, it's in 1952, we didn't have fax.
So if you're communicating directly, you'd send a...
I'm sorry.
I'll tell X maybe.
I don't know.
Way before my time.
I know.
Before my time too, but I still...
But in any case, this is interesting because we came across this.
This is from the White House from the Truman Library.
During two consecutive weekends of July 1952, the White House capital was buzzed by UFOs.
Right.
I actually found through an archivist, excuse me, through an archivist testimony from a guy
named Al Chopp, who was in the radar room the night that the pilot, one of the pilots
in 1952, streaking across the night sky at over 500 miles an hour in the pitch black
and suddenly was surrounded by these UFOs.
They were like, kind of could be described as tic-tacs.
They were small, circular, self-illuminous objects that surrounded his plane.
The testimony is phenomenal.
They were given the authority, and we have the newspaper clippings to validate what I'm
telling you.
They're given the authority to shoot, and apparently they did shoot, and they attempted
to shoot at these objects.
We take a very hostile position, according to the witnesses that I've talked to, on unknowns.
You know, I mean, it is over sensitive airspace.
I mean, you know, the White House, the Capitol building, and it was two consecutive weekends.
So there was this guy, president of the Rocket Society, his name is Robert Fonsworth, and
he wrote a direct plea to, I guess it would have been then, President Truman.
And he said, it's really cool, I respectfully suggest that no offensive action be taken
against the objects reported as unidentified, which have been cited over our nation.
Should they be extraterrestrial in origin, such action might result in the gravest consequences,
as well as possibly alienating us from beings of far superior powers.
Friendly contact should be made, should be sought, as long as possible.
Anyway, it's just kind of a cool little, came right out of the, the Harry, yeah, Harry
Truman Library.
Wow.
Yeah.
I got it directly from the Harry Truman Library.
And I thought that was neat.
And what I wanted to share with you is this photograph, this photograph here.
This is...
Up a little bit.
You got it?
Perfect.
Luis Jafari, he was a general.
And in 1976, he had an incredibly dramatic dog and cat, dog, you know, why was it called
a dog fight, but he had an encounter with a UFO, him and several other pilots.
And he tried to shoot it down.
He got it in its sights, and he pulled the trigger to fire at this thing.
And his entire cockpit froze, and he started falling out of the sky, and he said he was
ready to, he was a second or two away from bailing, thought he was done.
And I interviewed him, we flew him out from Tehran to Washington, D.C. to testify at the
National Press Club event that I did, that I made that film about called I Know What
I Saw.
And on camera all these years later, he's, he's since deceased.
He said, gosh, my biggest regret is why did I try to shoot it?
I should have tried to make friendly contact, you know, that really kind of left an indelible
impression on me hearing him say that.
Like why did we have to have an aggressive posture?
Why didn't we try to make friendly contact?
You know, we're such an aggressive species.
It's like, then you have to ask yourself, and it's all speculation, man, nobody really
knows in my opinion what's going on.
But these objects chose a school to land in Africa.
They chose a school to land in Australia.
They chose a school to land in England.
Is it a coincidence?
Are the children, they see as a benign presence that they'd rather try to make contact with,
I'm just putting this out there, I don't know.
But you know, the military takes an aggressive posture.
We shoot at these things.
We have very credible reports of landings in contact at schools.
I mean, with hundreds of witnesses on some occasions.
So I don't know.
It's just part of my personal journey.
Sometimes I think like maybe, maybe if we weren't so aggressive and warlike, maybe they
would make contact.
I don't know.
It's all, like I said, man, it's all speculation on my part.
But you look at what the phenomenon does, and that tells you some things, but you also
look at what the phenomenon doesn't do.
All they have to do is hover over the Macy's Day Parade and it's game over.
They don't do that.
You know, you look at some of these abduction cases like Travis Walton for this guy, I think
in 1975 at Snowflake, Arizona, and they got him, I'm convinced that he got in the way
of the propulsion when he jumped out of the truck and was affected by it, the propulsion
of the craft as it was spooling up and getting ready to take off.
And they came back and got him.
And when they, when they five days later dropped him off, if they were to drop him off in a
location where he was captured or obtained, he would have died.
It was the middle of nowhere.
I've been there twice.
Really?
Yeah, they dropped him off.
I actually have a photograph of the location if you want to see it.
Yeah, they dropped him off at.
See this one.
They dropped him off on the outskirts of town that was just.
Far enough away in a valley where they could swoop down quickly.
This is my little prize possession.
This was a drawing that, oh, no, 10 or 12 years ago, Travis Walton, the key witness to
the fire in the sky case drew for me.
Oh, wow.
There's something about that.
That's what the disc looked like.
And he signed it.
That's amazing.
Oh, my God.
Look at that.
10 years ago.
So it's kind of glowing.
And then this.
Oh, that's that's at the site.
Yeah, you got it.
Cool.
Yeah, that's at the site.
And the weird thing was to like proximity to where the object was was seen hovering.
They cut some of the immediate trees as samples to look at the growth rings.
And there was a pattern of accelerated growth within a certain proximity of where that object
was over like a 20 year period or whatever it was since or maybe it's 30 years since that
sighting.
But what I wanted to mention that I thought was rather interesting was so much of what
the these alleged beings did with Travis.
It's a very credible case because there were so many eyewitnesses and seven of them.
They all passed.
But when they dropped off Travis, they did it.
So right on the outskirts of town in a little valley so they could like dip down quickly,
deposit him right on the outskirts and then shoot off minimizing the likelihood of them
being spotted.
Why?
Right.
But they also cared about his well being because if they would have dropped him off where they
picked him up, he wouldn't have made it.
Right.
So that tells you something too.
Right.
Excuse me.
It's a fascinating.
So, you know, you have to look at like what UFOs do and you also have to look at what
UFOs don't do.
I mean, they do some pretty provocative things.
But they don't make overt contact on a mass scale.
Right.
Which is interesting, very interesting.
And the children aspect of it is even more fascinating.
Children think about it.
I mean, children have, they're the most open minded.
They're not set in their ways.
Totally.
They're closer to the source than we are.
Yeah.
They really are.
They really are.
Well, James, thank you so much for doing this, man.
It has been fascinating.
I'm grateful for you coming and sharing all this information.
Thank you so much for having me on the show.
It was a real pleasure.
I hope I didn't talk too much.
No, you didn't.
I wish you could talk more.
Where can people find?
When is the movie coming out moment of contact?
And where can people find it?
So moment of contact is coming out in mid October.
There are a lot of streaming platforms that are currently
looking at it.
It's right now scheduled to be released on TVOD, which is iTunes,
Amazon, Fandango, Vimeo, Hulu, all those streaming, you know,
those platforms of transactional download.
But it'd be great if anyone out there could just look up the
trailer moment of contact and just spread it out because the
more views the trailer gets, the higher profile, the film and
the more leverage that we have.
Also, if anyone's interested in seeing the phenomenon, you can
watch it for free on Tubi.
If you don't want to get commercials, you can rent it for
$2.99 or something like that on iTunes and Amazon.
If you buy it, some people go, why didn't you tell me this?
Because I don't know.
I never think about that.
But if you do decide to buy it, if you want to buy it, you can
get it on, I think it's iTunes with three hours of bonus
material.
Oh, wow.
And a lot of people, for the same price, you'd buy it
anywhere else.
But I think it's Vimeo and iTunes.
But check it out.
I'm pretty sure it's iTunes.
They have bonus material that you get when you purchase it for
$9.00, whatever, box, I don't know.
But people that are really into it want to know that.
Yeah.
And so if you're going to watch it for free, watch it on
Tubi.
If you want to spend money, go to the cheapest place to rent
it, which is like $2.90.
Don't be cheap.
You've cheap talks.
Spend the money.
What am I saying?
You can watch it free, too.
I don't care.
I don't do this for the money.
Obviously, I have to make a living.
Yeah, but thank you for having me on.
Absolutely, man.
Thank you so much.
And thank you for bringing all these amazing photographs and
everything.
It really made the experience so much more incredible.
Oh, cool.
Well, thanks, man.
That was a lot of fun.
