Thank you so much for joining me today.
My pleasure.
The book, your book, The Worm at the Core, is fascinating, thought-provoking.
It really got me excited because it's something that I've always thought about, The Worm
at the Core, what drives, what is the fundamental, most foundational driver for human consciousness.
And like I just showed you that clip from Westworld, I always thought it was sex.
But it seems like from what you've studied, it's more likely the fear of death.
Yes.
So we don't have to be simple-minded.
I think sexuality is a rather large determinant of human activity.
But yeah, if we're looking for just an overarching explanatory concept about what is it that
drives us, yeah, then I'm going to cast my vote for the idea that, as a Scottish dude
said, I think it's Alexander Smith in the 1860s, it is our knowledge that we have to
die that makes us human.
And so I babble in my classes, I'm like, okay, you know, we're going to study psychology,
and then I break it up.
It's psyche and ology.
And of course, everyone knows ology is the study of.
And then I'm like, well, what's psyche?
And most students, like I would have, they say, oh, that's mind.
And that is how we think of it today.
But Aristotle coined the term psyche, and in the original ancient Greek, it's soul.
And he defined soul as the essence of a body that is infused with life.
All right, now that, I don't know about you, but I'm like, shit, I don't know what you're
talking about.
I need English.
Yeah, I need English.
Yes, por favor.
And then he says, okay, let me give you some examples.
If an ax were alive, the soul of an ax would be to chop.
And if you could pluck your eyeball out of your head, and it was still functioning, well,
he says, okay, the soul of an eyeball is to see, like the soul of a grasshopper is to
hop.
All right, so that raises the question, what's the soul of a human being?
And the answer depends on who you ask.
And so Aristotle, he was all about that were rational creatures, right?
We call ourselves Homo sapiens, where sapiens means wise.
And while I wouldn't want to be on the side of the debating team to defend that proposition,
because I think while we are capable of rational thought, it is not our default mental state,
but that's one way of thinking about the essence of humanity.
But there's others.
There's another dude, he called us Homo Ludens.
Ludens is Latin for play, that we're fundamentally playful creatures.
We're the only critters that have leagues and uniforms and games with rules.
And that's one way of viewing us.
Another person calls us Homo Faber, we're tool-making creatures.
Somebody else calls us Homo Aestheticus, that we like to think about surrounding ourselves
with beauty.
Somebody else calls us Homo Naritans, that we're storytelling creatures.
And my thing, Danny, is I like all of those as interesting ways, interesting vantage points
from which to step back and view ourselves as forms of life.
But back to my point, when I ran into this guy who said, it is our knowledge that we
have to die that makes us human, in my gut, I was like, yeah, at least that squares with
my experience.
I've been disinclined to die since I was like eight, the day that my grandmother died, which
made me realize that I too would someday die.
And so that was a long-winded response to your question.
From our vantage point, the work that we do is very much based on the assumption that
a defining characteristic of our humanity that differentiates us from all other forms
of life that we are currently aware of is that we know that we're going to die from
a rather early age, and the average individual is not particularly comforted by that realization.
So when you were around eight years old when your grandmother died, is this like an idea
or a thought that sort of never left you?
Well, in retrospect, yeah.
Well, I mean, consciously?
Consciously, no.
So there you go, Danny.
And this is a very important point that I'm sure we're going to be coming back to.
And that is when we talk about the notion that concerns about and fear of death are
the primary motivational impetus for a substantial proportion of human behavior.
We need not stipulate that we are the least bit aware of this.
And for some people, that is an understandable grounds for skepticism, because basically what
Freud used to say is, oh, we're all driven by sex and aggression.
And you could agree with him and say, yeah, dude, you're right.
Or you could say, no, that's nonsense, in which case Freud would have said, well, you're
just repressing your sexuality and aggression.
So am I right or am I right?
And it's the same thing with death anxiety.
There are some people who say, I am not afraid of death.
And therefore, I'm going to stop listening to anything that you say on those grounds.
But this would be unfortunate, because we do know empirically that when people say that
they are completely unafraid of death, either they have attained a Buddha-like serenity
in the wake of the awareness of their mortality, or they're actually riddled with death anxiety
that they repress quite unconsciously.
Now, do you think there's a, I mean, obviously there has to be a spectrum of people on how
afraid they are of death and how that affects their life?
How did you begin to start studying and doing, conducting these studies on terror management
here?
Yeah, great question, Danny.
So we're minding our own business.
My buddies, Jeff Greenberg and Tom Pozinski and I, we were fellow graduate students at
the University of Kansas.
We all finished and got jobs, and in 1980, I bumped into a book by a recently deceased
cultural anthropologist, Ernest Becker, called The Denial of Death, that received the Pulitzer
Prize a few weeks after he died, ironically, of cancer at age 49 and around 1973 or so.
And what Becker said, I just found disarmingly simple and poignantly profound.
He just said, look, in many ways, we're not that much different from all other forms of
life.
Here, he's channeling Darwin, we're biologically predisposed, to, towards self-preservation,
to stay alive and to reproduce.
All right, but then Darwin's like, yo, but there's a lot of ways to stay alive, right?
Got the giraffe with the big neck, got the turtle with the shell, you know, you got birds
with good eyesight and so on.
All right, well, what about people?
And here we are, an interestingly paradoxical species, because on the one hand, we're actually
kind of an abomination, physically, right?
We do have some good stuff going for us, upright bipedalism, opposable thumbs, stereoscopic,
binocular vision, all really good.
Yeah, but other than that, we're kind of pathetic as isolated individuals.
We're not very big, we're not very strong, we're not very fast, our senses are not very
keen, our teeth are not very sharp.
And basically, I kid my students in college, I'm like, hey, you know, you're talking shit
about how you can function autonomously, give me your phone, give me your credit card, I'm
going to helicopter you on top of a mountain on a fine day and tell you to have a good
day because it'll probably be your last one.
And so, well, why is it that we're not only here, but really kind of dominate and permeate
earth?
And there's two reasons.
One is that we're uber-social creatures, thankfully we don't have to get by by ourselves.
We are in a lot of ways unique in being hyper-cooperative individuals who together are able to construct
and maintain a host of elaborate institutions that facilitate our collective survival.
That's like awesome.
But that's not enough.
Bees and termites are social creatures.
So now, Becker shifts to the big brain and he's like, all right, let's not be too arrogantly
homo-centric, but let us note that we have an enlarged forebrain that enables us to think
abstractly and symbolically to the point where we can imagine things that don't even exist
and then have the audacity to create them.
And I just find that astonishing.
Every other form of life has to accept the world in the form in which they encounter
it.
All right, now again, all right, I get, you know, bees build hives, beavers make dams,
spiders spin webs.
They've been doing it for billions of years and they haven't changed one bit.
All right, but we have Leonardo da Vinci drawn a picture of a helicopter and people are like
your crazy dude and 500 years later we've got Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk flying to the
moon.
I like Otto Ronk, one of Becker's favorite guys who just says only humans make the unreal
real.
I just find that extraordinarily uplifting as well as explanatory because most of the
things that we enjoy as humans like chairs and tacos and music and even us being able
to talk to each other today are by virtue of the hyper-creativity that emerges from an
uber-social cooperative animal, all good.
And then Becker keeps going.
He says, you know what, and here he's following the philosopher Kierkegaard when he says that
people are so smart that we actually realize that we exist.
And he's like, okay, wait a minute, because a lot of us are like, well, of course I know
I exist.
But Kierkegaard's point is that other forms of life are not necessarily in possession
of that awareness.
In Psycho-Babble, excuse me, he said that it takes a ridiculously sophisticated cognitive
apparatus to render yourself the object of your own subjective inquiry.
All right, English translation, a raccoon is here but doesn't know it.
Rosebush is here but doesn't know it.
Not going to argue today about whether your dog knows that he or she is here.
We just need people to admit that they know that they're here.
And so the point that Kierkegaard made is that if you're smart enough to know that you're
here, you're going to experience two uniquely human emotions that he called awe and dread.
And again, I'm a teacher so I like words that actually people have heard before.
Like awe is awesome.
It is awesome to be alive and to know it.
And I say this to remind myself that in our finest moments, it's just fantastic to be
a respiring, sentient entity.
You wake up some days, it was so beautiful on the plane, magnificent day, people are
friendly and it's just like, it is great to be alive.
I didn't need to win a Nobel Prize or a million dollars to just be infused with a joyous sense
of awe and gratitude by virtue of merely existing, right?
Hold that thought.
It's great to be alive.
And then Kierkegaard turns right around and says, yeah, but it's dreadful at the same
time because unless you're a child or an idiot, you realize that you're here and that necessarily
entails the collateral recognition that like all living things, your life is a finite duration
and you too someday will expire.
So that's thing number one.
And this is the big Ernest Becker point and that is that the uniquely human awareness
of death.
And when I say that, Danny, I'm not saying that if you're an antelope and you're about
to be eaten by a hungry lion that has its jaws around your head, my guess is that you know
that things are not going well.
But only humans are aware of death at a rather early age in some cases as young as two in
situations where our life is not threatened.
And so that's what makes us unique is the awareness of death and the absence of conditions
that would typically be associated with it.
So that's unwelcome realization number one.
That's an unintended byproduct of our vast intelligence.
You know, nobody planned it that way.
It just happened.
We got smart enough to know that we're here.
And then when we extend our capacity to think about things over time, both past and future,
we realize that the meters running and our lives will someday also be abated.
That realization is compounded when we also recognize that not only will we someday die,
but we could die at any time for reasons we could never anticipate or control.
And so this is what puts us, Ernest Becker argues, in a persistent state of chronic dis-ease.
Put a hyphen between dis and ease.
You know every time that you get on an airplane that it could end up flying into a mountain
or an ocean.
You know, unfortunately, right now that there's more guns in America than there are people
and on a hot day a disgruntled motorist may blow your head off just because you've annoyed
them.
You know that the next time you get a headache, it might be a headache, then again, it might
be a golf ball-sized malignant tumor on the way of exterminating you.
And so it's not only that we're going to die that causes these existential anxieties.
It's that it can happen at any time.
And then finally, Becker, just to knee us in the psychological groin, he says, okay,
you're going to die, you could die at any time, and you're fucking animal if you'll
pardon the language, you're a breathing piece of defecating meat that is no more significant
or enduring than a lizard or a potato.
And what Becker claims is that if that's what we thought about while we were conscious
all the time, I'm going to die, I could walk outside and get hit by a comet or a pandemic,
just a cold cut with an attitude that we wouldn't be able to stand up in the morning.
He just says we would be so debilitated by waves of existential terror that we would
be functionally incapacitated.
And so what he argued is that we had to do something consciously or not as a species
to come to terms with the reality of the human condition and that what our ancestors did
quite unconsciously and quite creatively was to develop what the anthropologists today
call culture, humanly constructed beliefs about reality that we share with other people
in our group that helps reduce death anxiety by giving us each a sense that life has meaning
and that we have value.
These are for Becker, this is the mother load of psychological motivation.
Underneath all of it is that we're trying to diminish death anxiety, but the way that
we experience it in our lives is a persistent quest for a sense of meaning and value.
And so let's talk about meaning and value just for a bit because he's like, okay, what
do I mean by meaning?
He's like, well, look at all the cultures in the world.
They all have an account of the origin of the universe.
They all have prescriptions for how we're supposed to behave.
While we're here, they all have the promise of immortality, either literally through the
world's great religions, you know, the heavens, the afterlives and the souls, or the ancient
Greeks said, maybe you don't believe in immortality.
They had another flavor that they called symbolic immortality, where you're like, I know I'm
not going to be here forever, but a piece of me is going to live on.
I'm going to have kids.
I'm going to make a ton of money and buy a building and put my name on it.
I'm going to write a book.
We're going to do a podcast that'll be here when we are no longer here.
And all the Becker points out is that, you know, in order to stand up in the morning,
we need to think that life has meaning.
And when we don't, that's his definition of depression.
He's like, sometimes it's hard to think that life is meaningful.
And in his language, that makes us disillusioned.
Our culturally depicted account of the world is no longer compelling.
And when we get disillusioned, that makes us demoralized.
We don't have any symbolic blueprint for how it is that we ought to behave.
So anyway, his big point is that we need to think that life is meaningful.
But that's necessary, but not sufficient.
We also need to think that we're valuable contributors to the meaningful cultural drama
to which we subscribe.
And the way the culture enables us to do that is through the provision of social roles.
Right?
So if I'm a baseball player, my job is to hit home runs.
If I'm a nurse, my job is to save lives.
If I'm a banker, my job is to accumulate money.
And if you meet or exceed the standards associated with the social role that you inhabit, well,
now you're solid psychodynamically.
You feel like you have value and life has meaning.
And that's what Becker calls self-esteem.
And then just to, and I'll shut up in a moment, just to finish the psychological account,
the first point is, as I said earlier, whether we're aware of it or not, most of us are striving
all the time to maintain a sense that we have value in a world of meaning.
And what underlies that ultimately is a disinclination to die.
This episode is brought to you by Bluetube.
Let's talk about sex.
Fellas, do you remember the days when you were always ready to go?
Now you can increase your performance and get that extra confidence boost in bed.
Listen up.
Bluetube.com.
Bluetube is a unique online service that delivers the same active ingredients as Viagra and
Cialis, except it comes in a chewable tablet and it's only a fraction of the cost.
The beautiful thing is you can take them any time, day or night, so you can plan ahead
and always be ready when that special opportunity arises.
The process is super simple.
Just sign up at bluetube.com, consult with one of their licensed medical providers, and
once you're approved, you'll receive your prescription within days.
And the best part is, it's all done online, so no visits to doctor's offices, no awkward
conversations, and no waiting in line at the pharmacy.
Bluetube's tablets are made right here in the USA and they're prepared and shipped
directly to your door in a discrete package.
Of course, first impressions are very important, but no one ever talks about the lasting impressions.
Women say there's nothing sexier than confidence, and Bluetube will give you the confidence
where it counts.
Buy Bluetube for free by using the promo code CONCREET at checkout.
It's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E, and all you gotta pay is $5 shipping.
That's bluetube.com using the promo code CONCREET at checkout to get your first month free.
Visit bluetube.com for more important details and safety information, and we thank Bluetube
for sponsoring this episode.
Back to the show.
There's so many directions we could go right now.
I think I'm interested in the cultural and religious aspect of this and how, you know,
for example, like even the most hardcore atheists, if they get on a plane and they hit turbulence,
they're gonna pray to God.
There you go.
So, that's right.
And not to be like an egghead, but that's been demonstrated empirically.
And so, Ernest Becker has all of these ideas, and a lot of people dismiss them on the grounds
that there was no evidence for them.
And that's where Tom and Jeff and I come in, because we are experimental psychologists
by trade, and we developed some very simple laboratory paradigms to just see if these
ideas have any scientific merit.
And so, one of the paradigms is where we just remind people that they're gonna die someday.
You know, sometimes they're in the lab, and we're like, write down your thoughts and feelings
about your own death.
Sometimes we do this outside of the lab, and we stop people either in front of a funeral
parlor or 100 meters to either side, and our thought is, is if you stand in in front of
a funeral parlor, death is on your mind, whether you know it or not.
And then we do other studies.
When you're at Skidmore where I work next, you'll come to my office and you'll read
stuff on my computer, and while you're doing that, I'll flash the word death for 28 milliseconds.
So fast that you don't even see it, right?
And the point is, is that you do not need to know that death is on your mind for it
to have striking, attitudinal, and behavioral effects.
All right, so for example, back to religion, Danny.
If we remind devout Christians that they're gonna die, and then we ask them, how much
do you believe in God, and how much do you think that prayer is effective?
Death reminders make religious believers, not only Christians, but Buddhists and Muslims
also, I believe, they make them more confident in the existence of God and the efficacy of
prayer.
All right, here's where it gets interesting.
If you ask an atheist how much they believe in God, of course, they're gonna say not
at all, right?
And then if you remind an atheist that they're gonna die, and you say, how much do you believe
in God?
They actually say that they believe in God even less, right?
So just hold that thought, because basically when we remind people that they're gonna die,
they double down on their prevailing worldview, right?
So if you believe in God, you're gonna believe in God more.
If you don't believe in God, you're gonna believe in God less.
If you're conservative, and we remind you you're gonna die, you're more conservative.
If you're liberal, you become more liberal.
But back to the atheists for a minute.
If we measure fear of death unconsciously, then the atheists as well as the Christians
become more engaged with the supernatural when they're reminded of death, right?
So on the one hand, the unconsciously.
All right, so that's where you get the phrase, there's no atheists in the foxholes.
Yeah, when push comes to shove, we all have the proverbial rabbit's foot that we're clutching
in the fervent hope that we're not summarily obliterated.
Wow.
There's something Ernest Becker said about when after he had kids, he thought more about
death.
That's something that I can relate to.
I thought a lot about death and what the world would be like if I just disappeared after
I had kids.
It was very weird, very dark thoughts I would have for no apparent reason subconsciously.
Is it true that he became religious after he had children?
By his account, I never met him, although I have met Marie Becker, who is still alive.
And yes, he grew up in a somewhat religious household, evidently a Jewish household.
When he became religious after his kids were born, he embraced Christianity.
And ultimately, he embraced religiosity broadly at the end of his life.
He without insisting or demanding that any of us adhere to his views, what he argued
is that in general, a religious worldview may be more effective for helping us cope with
existential anxieties than more secular ones.
When it comes to children, how much time did you spend studying children being aware
of death subconsciously or consciously, and how can you describe their differences based
on the realization of death and before they're aware of it?
These are awesome questions, Danny.
And I like your style because what you've just done is to point out how complex it will
be to inquire in a rigorous fashion to answer those questions.
So to back up a bit, it's unclear if small kids are aware of death prior to them being
able to talk about it.
So that's always going to be important.
You know, basically, it seems like a fairly good supposition that we enter the world oblivious
to ourselves as well as to our ultimate fate.
But we do come into the world prone to anxiety, and it is that anxiety when we're in uncertain
situations that stimulates the development of the attachments to our ancestral forebearers.
What we do know, and this is not from our work, we have not studied kids directly,
but there's a fairly robust clinical literature that started with a woman,
I believe her name is Sylvia Anthony, in the 1950s.
And she was a British clinician, and she studied children and their parents.
And her interest was, when do kids become aware of death?
And the answer is, it depends.
It's as early as two.
And the claim is that by nine or 10, almost all kids are at least vaguely aware that they will
someday die.
We don't know all of the factors that would allow us to predict in advance why some are aware
of it earlier than others.
And we also don't know why some kids come into the world more concerned about it.
It's probably at the risk of sounding simple-minded.
It's probably a complicated interaction between inherited characteristics.
We know that there are folks that are more innately prone to anxiety than others at birth.
And we also know that generational trauma causes epigenetic changes in the womb.
So there's another thing that might be relevant.
And then just the life circumstances that we find ourselves in, the impoverished
and folks that tend to be on the downside of being discriminated against.
So impoverished outgroups, not surprisingly, tend to be more prone to existential malaise.
Because I think there is a connection between the children, the younger they are, the less
aware they are of death, when you compare it to religion.
Typically, when people get older, it's more likely for them to become an embraced religion
or a god or any sort of afterlife, something like that.
That typically, at least in my case and everyone I know, is a kid.
We're just like heavy metal, you know, fuck religion, that shit's for losers, nerds.
And then when you get older and you have kids, you kind of embrace it more and you kind of
understand it more.
And I don't know if that's because you're getting older and you're realizing that,
your meat sack is going to fail you, it's failing you now, it's going to keep getting worse.
This is kind of comfortable, right?
Getting back to what you were saying, the dread and the awe, when you're in those states of awe
and you realize we have the ability to understand when we're experiencing these amazing life
experiences, we understand there's an equal opposite to that.
Nice, right?
Yes, or I don't know if we do, but I think that maybe as odd as it sounds, Danny,
I think that's a wonderful point.
Yeah, I think the key to psychological well-being is ultimately based on the capacity to recognize
that there's no such thing as the upside without the downside.
I really like how you put it, better than me mumbling at this point.
And I don't want to, again, go all academic-y, but the philosopher Heidegger,
Martin Heidegger, who talks about coming to terms with death, he makes that point.
He says, look, at our best, we are really capable of coming to a place where we accept that we're
going to die, and we are joyous as a result.
He literally says that if we can pull it off, that our lives get to the point where it feels
like we're on some ongoing adventure that's perfused with unshakable joy.
Yeah, but then he says, yeah, but this is not to imply that you have obliterated anxiety
or psychological dis-ease.
In fact, quite the contrary, what you have done, they call it, the existentialists call it,
living authentically, is you are able to ultimately wallow in spontaneous exuberance
precisely because you're not simultaneously denying that life will always be sad and there
will always be suffering.
And yeah, part of our well-being is to acknowledge and accept that.
Right. Now, Jordan Peterson is somebody who's talked a lot about you.
He's talked a lot about Ernest Becker.
And one of the points, the counter points he makes to it is that there are a lot worse things
than death, the suffering of your children, the suffering of your loved ones.
Like, isn't that way worse than your own death?
Have you ever had this, talked with Jordan about this?
No, we haven't. And so here's where it gets interesting.
So Jordan and I go way back. He used to 35 or so years ago declare that we were full
of shit at academic conferences. And by the way, that's the way science works.
This was, it's never personal. Science does not advance by agreement.
If everybody agrees, science is dead.
You know, what we need is civil disagreement.
Anyway, I lost track of Jordan for a couple of decades.
So he became a very highly regarded and rightfully so professor at Harvard before he ended up at the
University of Toronto. I'm familiar with a lot of his academic work.
And he is familiar with what we have done. Although again, if we were sitting next to each
other, I would encourage him to take a peek at what we've done over the last 20 years or so.
Having said that, though, I spent a day with Jordan in Canada right before his book,
about the 12 rules of life came out. And we had a great day together.
We were both talking heads at a Shakespeare festival. I think they were reading or watching
Macbeth. And we were both asked to give our psychodynamic interpretation of what was going on.
And it was an awesome day reminding me of how much I enjoyed his company, how provocative
are his ideas. And then Jordan, as you know, got very famous. I don't have shoes and he does.
And in part, that's a personal decision. This is not a pissing match, but we're together.
And Jordan said, you know, anytime I give a talk, I hold my phone up and I tape myself.
And then I post it and I have several hundred thousand YouTube followers. And you should do the
same. You're also an eloquent bullshitter who uses words with more than one syllable.
And my point, and this is not, I do not intend to sound judgmental here.
Jordan, I believe at the time, was interested in becoming known for the ideas that he was advocating
for. I'd rather not be known. I want the ideas to be known. And again, I don't have shoes.
Probably because of that. But anyway, no matter. Jordan, since I've seen him last,
he has spoken often about points of disagreement between his ideas and ours. I like to go the
other way and start with what we agree about, which is almost everything in general.
All right. We argue based on Ernest Becker that we are fundamentally meaning making entities.
All right. We're not the first to say that. Victor Frankel said it. Ernest Becker said it.
And so too does Jordan Peterson. That's the main point of the maps of meaning book.
Where we disagree is how that is best accomplished and the range of possible
manifestations of meaning and value. All right. Back to English translation.
Jordan is a staunch advocate for a neoliberal Christian worldview. In other words, he's like
we're meaning making entities. And the best cultural worldview is the European Judeo-Christian
tradition. So religiously, it would tend to be Christianity. Politically and economically,
it would tend to be neoliberal economics. And so Jordan is, if I understand him correctly,
saying, look, this is the way that we should be. And that all of these other ways are inferior,
malignant, degenerate manifestations that deviate from what he would claim to be
what's best for humanity, or at least what's best for people in our cultural milieu
at this particular historical moment. I would respectfully take issue with that claim. And so
there's a book called The Dawn of Everything by a recently dead guy called David Graber. And I
don't know if you've ever heard of him. He has some cool books, bullshit jobs, the history of debt.
And this is a book that he wrote with another psychologist, David Wengrove. And the Graber's
point, and if Jordan were with us today, I would ask him if he had read this book, because Graber's
point is that we are very parochial and arrogantly Eurocentric when we look at anthropology and
religion and archaeology. And we're ignoring boatloads of other cultural traditions that are at
least in principle, perhaps better psychologically and materially than the institutions and the
social organizations that Jordan is an ardent proponent of. In other words, he's saying, look,
these are the best ways to be Christian and capitalist is the best, if not the only way
to proceed. And I would object to that both in principle as well as practice. It's an empirical
issue, ultimately. So I would guess that's where Jordan makes some claims about the research
when he says, oh, death is not that terrible. These other things are more terrible. Well,
that's empirically not the case. We've asked people, how would you feel if so and so was dying?
How would you feel if this happens? And the fact is, is that in our studies,
what really impels people to respond in a defensive fashion is an intimation of their own
personal mortality. Wow. So once again, this is where sometimes we have to be able to
momentarily suspend our belief in common sense, because I too was riddled with thoughts of death
and anxiety when my kids were born. And I too thought that that was worse than me dying,
but there's not been any empirical demonstration of that claim at least that I'm aware of. So
anyway, that would be my point. And moreover, and to be silly, and again, I wish that Jordan
was sitting right next to me so we could launch together, because this is, I'll come back to what
I already said and that I believe needs to start. Every one of these discussions is,
we don't disagree about the superordinate psychodynamic principle that we are meaning
making creatures. I believe though that there is a wider variety of cultural possibilities.
And moreover, I would argue that capitalism and Christianity are arguably rather unfortunate.
And again, it's almost tough to have these conversations without the capacity to respond,
because on the one hand, there are folks who point out that science and technology, as we know it,
are unique products of Western civilization. And I believe that to be correct. So now I'm
going to piss off everybody that might be listening. There are, like when Steve Bannon says,
I'm proud to be white. I think he's proud to be white for the wrong reasons, but there it is,
I think, a defensible claim that there are aspects of the Judeo-Christian tradition in the West
that are responsible for the development of the scientific method. And the technological advances
that for a lot of people on earth have made life rather pleasant. Yeah, I think that's true.
And no reason to deny that. Yeah, on the other hand, you know, my quarrel with the Judeo-Christian
tradition is that it is arrogantly homocentric. We are one of the few groups of people who declare
ourselves to be created in God's image, who then puts all of the animals here on earth,
and we get to name them. And I tell my students, read Genesis, because God then says,
I give Adam and Eve, I give human beings dominion over all that walks, over all that flies,
over all that swims. And so here's a view of life that separates humans from nature,
declares us to be superior to it, and ultimately creates a situation where life is just a giant
buffet table that we partake of, and our gluttonous leisure just piss on the table on our way out.
Moreover, what there's a British philosopher, a guy named John Gray, and his point is that
capitalism is just this, it's Christianity without God, because now instead of eternal life,
what you're groping for is infinite wealth. And it is a similarly, and this is ultimately
even more highly problematic than an arrogantly homocentric religious world view,
for two reasons. One is that, and these are familiar arguments, but one is that a capital-based,
now that's not the same as a market economy, by the way, but a capital-based economy
requires infinite growth in order to sustain itself. If people in America only bought what
they actually needed, the American economy would collapse by lunchtime. And moreover,
there is no point at which individuals can ever consider themselves to be satiated,
or satisfied. Enough is never enough, so Mary Poppins said, enough is as good as a feast,
but I've never seen an American behave like that. Elon Musk is the richest guy in the world,
what's he doing today? Well, trying to make more money. Ditto for Bezos. And what Ernest
Becker said is, beware of insatiable desires. Everything in nature, enough is enough. I
like pizza, but after 12 slices, I've had enough. I like chocolate, 55-gallon drama M&Ms, had enough.
You know, fill in the blank, beer, sucks, movies, music, there's an upper limit. But there is no
upper limit to the people's desire for material wealth. And this has made folks like John Gray
point out that we're pursuing the same thing both on heaven and on earth, which is not dying.
Yeah. That's heavy. It is heavy. And I say these things to Andy to be sure we understand each
other. I'm not claiming that I have any privileged, detached position. I'm saying that I too am a
aspiring meat puppet riddled with anxieties that I'm primarily unaware of that are manifested
in these kinds of behaviors. And I'm not saying these things. Well, no, I am saying this intentionally
to just insist that I'm prone to all of these affectations. You know, I can't tell you how
many times I've been like lost in the middle and nowhere at night. And then I'll reach in my pocket.
Oh, I have some money. I'll reach in my pocket and I'll be comforted by a piece of paper that has no
value in the forest unless you're at a toilet paper. And yet there's just something comforting
about being in the presence of money. Right. Yeah. Right. And again, if you're an American,
turn the dollar bill over because on the back it says in God we trust demonstrating that money has
always had religious connotations. And then there's the little pyramid on the back left side of a
dollar bill with an eyeball floating on top of it. And look at a dollar the next time you have one.
And that's the ancient Egyptian symbol of immortality. So even, you know, so when people are
like, oh, you're full of crap, you're saying money is just a symbol that we use to exchange goods
and services. Yeah, it's that but so much more. Right. Going back to Jordan, I think one of the
big points that he makes that he likes to make is the difference between equality of opportunity
versus equality of outcome. Yeah. Right. And, you know, he thinks that it's important to have
equality of opportunity. Yeah. But sort of trying to balance the equality of outcomes is not a good
way to run a functioning society. Yeah. And that gets that ties into sort of his disdain for
Marxism. I know that can become like a bumper sticker type word. Again, I'm going to be a
deck. He should read Marx, who was a crappy economist, but an amazing psychologist in
my opinion. My point, again, I'm saying this repeatedly just to emphasize that I would feel
much more comfortable in a discussion with Jordan next to us. He doesn't, you know,
if we could get in touch with him, maybe he'll come by. Yeah, we'll have some lunch. But
my point, and here I would ask if he's read a book by a Harvard philosopher, Michael Sandel,
called The Tyranny of Merit. And what Jordan and folks who share his views, they're big fans of
meritocracy. Yes. And which is superficially, superficially attractive. The idea is that
we all are on the starting line together. And then we each have an opportunity to excel.
And so let's go ahead and do that. The best stuff rises to the top. There you go. All right.
Well, two things. One is, is that if we're going to do that, then he doesn't have any kids, but
there's other white people who have these views. And I was like, Hey, let your kid play on your
driveway. And I'm going to kidnap them and bring them to some place and enslave them for 400 years
so that we can totally decimate an entire culture. And here we're getting into, you know, fuzzy
territory, because I'm going with the critical race theory idea, which is simply
truth with a piece of jargon. And that is that there are systemic ways of creating inequitable
outcomes either by design or otherwise. And so there's a reason why the average white family
has 10 times more wealth than the average black family. Until 50 years, you couldn't own property
if you were black, you couldn't get a mortgage or a GI bill for education. And so we have systematically,
it's like putting cement necklaces on people and then letting them stand next to other people
on the starting line of a race and saying, Oh, you're slow. So thing number one, and I'm not
saying that I have a way to remedy this. So these are two different questions, acknowledging that
there are fundamental inequalities as a result of systemic injustice. That's just a statement of fact.
But it doesn't follow from that as to what to do about it, right? And I'm not advocating for any
particular program of amelioration. I don't know if reparations are a good idea. I see both the
upside and the downside of affirmative action. But so that that's one problem is I'm not seeing
equality of opportunity. So Jordan's saying, Oh, I'm a big fan of equality of opportunity.
If there really was equal opportunity, then I don't think we should dictate particular outcomes.
In other words, in a in a world that doesn't any longer exist. When I was in the 1970s,
when I graduated from college, if you were a white guy, and you wanted a job, you could read a
newspaper, I tell my students, these are pieces of paper that has shit in it. And at the back of
the newspaper were listed jobs. And if you wanted a job, it would take less than a day to get one.
And minimum wage was enough to rent an apartment and get a crappy used car. And if you got an entry
level position, I started as a dishwasher in college. And by the time I finished working at
the Sheridan hotel, they were offering me entry to their management training program.
In other words, to me, that's the American dream. Everyone who wants to work can work.
If you do work, it is possible to be compensated adequately to have a life,
which is now what I'm talking about is the average white guy in the 1970s and 80s. And so
my point is, if that's the way the world is, then I agree with Jordan and most conservative folks who
just say, you get in proportion to the effort that you exert, let's let that happen. But as John
Locke pointed out many, many years ago, the dead Scottish philosopher, that claim is based on a
world of infinite resources. In other words, what Locke said is that if I want to own a thousand
apple trees, that's fine. If you want a thousand apple trees, then you can just go someplace else.
And he's writing in the 1860s, and he's saying, oh yeah, England's kind of all filled up. So if you
want to have a lot of stuff, just go to America. There's nobody there. And the people that are
there are miserable savages. Well, the fact is, is that they weren't miserable. But back to reality,
what the meritocracy guy says, Michael Sandel, is, but that's not the way things actually are.
In other words, we live in a world of limited resources. Like you can have a perfect grades
and perfect SAT scores and still get rejected from Harvard and Stanford. And the point that
he makes is that we have gotten to the point as a society where we don't even value people
unless they're the absolute best at what they do, right? So basically, if you're rich, who cares?
You got to be the richest person. If you're pretty, you have to be the prettiest person.
If you're an Olympic runner, you have to win a gold medal. Or else you, you know, nobody knows
who comes in second, according to this argument. Well, what Sandel said is, well, when we live
in this kind of society where we tell our kids, if you tried hard, you can be just as rich as Bill
Gates or Oprah. Or if you wanted to, you could be just as pretty as the female models on the cover
of Cosmopolitan that are actually 20% thinner than it is possible for a human being to be,
then we create a situation where every person in America, if they're not the best at what they do,
is either miserable or enraged. And think about it, that is the culture we now live in. The rate
of depression in America is 10 times higher than it was in the aftermath of World War II.
Our life expectancy is lower. We're having like literally aggressive confrontations
in parking lots, ending with guns over things that used to be considered relatively minor
in discretions. So to get back to your overall question, yeah, I would take respectful issue
with the, with this idea of, yeah, that people have equal opportunity, first and foremost,
and that where actually I think they are overstating the case about insisting
on identical outcomes. That's never been the progressive point of view so much as a state of
affairs that allows everybody the relatively equivalent latitude to best develop themselves.
Yeah, I think Jordan, he also talks from more of a personal perspective to being at the university.
He was, I think he talks a lot about like children getting their kids getting enrolled
in colleges and like the scale sort of going the other way, right? Like taking a white kid with
straight A's or a black or brown kid with B's, and they would take the kid who had a different
skin color to sort of balance those scales. But I guess his claim is that they go too far.
I think again, perhaps, this is where I think we've got to be, right, nuanced.
Right, yes, absolutely.
Honestly, and that's why, yeah, I'm being annoying, but I'm going to blast Jordan a message and say
hi, see if he's up for a casual conversation about these matters.
And John Locke is fascinating too. Some of the stuff that you talked about about John Locke,
really blew my mind, especially when it comes to how you integrate some of the, you know,
capitalism into politics and how money kind of controls everything from corporations influencing
the policies that are implemented on us, and it all comes back to consumerism.
Yeah, so now Locke wouldn't have framed it that way, even though I agree with what you're saying.
Locke would be mortified by what is now happening because he really was, well, in my opinion, a
genius and ultimately was trying to produce a radical transformation that gave all of us who
are here today most of the basic individual rights that we collectively enjoy. In other words,
he was responding to the prevailing mentality at the time, which is that top-down leadership by
divinely ordained autocrats. And he was like, that's backwards, that the unit of analysis is
the individual. And what he was trying to do was, in my opinion, to create a situation
that shifted power and autonomy to each of us as individuals, noting that we are
individuals who exist collectively in a civil society. And, you know, it's a little long-winded,
but I still, you know, I find it a compelling tale because he says, well, you know, in a state of
nature, there were no societies. There were just individuals. And we were just all trying to stay
alive. And so basically, he's like, well, all right, and there's no private property in nature.
Right, right, right. This is the whole creation of the state.
Yeah, and I love this stuff. And he's like, okay, so then, well, what are my rights? And he's like,
well, I certainly have a right to stay alive. God would agree. And so would Darwin.
Right. And in order to stay alive, I have to consume. There's the consumer thing, which is not
intrinsically bad. And then he says, look, nature is here for all of us. It's common property.
It's not private property. But it becomes private property the minute I exert effort
in pursuit of my well-being. I say, I see an apple tree. I walk over. I grab an apple.
When I grab it, it's not everybody's apple. It's my apple. And Locke goes on and he says,
hey, I can have as many apples as I want as long as I don't steal them from other people
or let them rot. All right. And then he's like, okay, but think about it. You're hungry.
There's an apple tree a mile away. And then there's just a guy 10 meters away
with a bunch of apples. What's easier? Locking a mile in the heat or grabbing a rock and
cracking his fucking head. And Locke said, it is just human nature that we will transgress.
But if I go over and crack a guy's head, well, then his family will get some oil maybe and dump
it on my village and incinerate the whole neighborhood. His point is, is that we are
incapable of rationally abjudicating conflicts. And that puts human beings in a state of nature
in a constant state of war. And so what Locke argued is that we reluctantly relinquish the
absolute freedom of nature in order to become members of a civil society. We give up the freedom
to crack somebody's head if they've cracked our head. We defer to the government to keep us safe
and to adjudicate disputes. Right. And in Locke's view, that's the only function of government
to protect my property, including my family, and from domestic turmoil or foreign invasion.
And anything else is inappropriate. And that's why conservatives are big fans of small government.
Back to the money thing, though, because he's like, hey, property is good. I can have as much
as I want. And everything was great until the invention of money. Because before money,
there'd come a point where you had enough apples. You had enough trees. You had enough cows.
But for Locke, once there was money, then here you had this thing that doesn't rot.
Right. That's what makes gold unique. Everything in nature, Locke says, is transient and decays.
Gold is perpetual. And what he argued is that this allows us to accumulate money.
And he says, I can have as much as I want without harming anybody else. Moreover, he says,
people are different. We vary. He uses the word industry. And all that means is some of us are
smarter. Some of us are not lazy. And he says, well, if people vary, then it makes sense that
over time, some of us are going to be richer than others. And that's a good thing. So for Locke,
inequality is natural. And it's good because we need the achievements of the occasional
unique individual in order to make life better for everybody. Right. And now again,
there are lots of aspects of that argument that are quite compelling. And yet there are an equal
number of them that I regard as problematic. And I suspect John Locke would, too, if he were here
today. Because again, all of his ideas about the appropriateness of unlimited access to
private property is based on the assumption of infinite resources.
So how does that translate in your mind, that concept to where we are today in our society?
Yeah. Well, I see us as literally demented hamsters on the exercise wheel of life,
because we're, and let me back up and just say that our argument is that what motivates people
to buy infinite amounts of stuff and have ever larger piles of money is death denial. Right.
So there's this old timer dude who is at Tennessee Williams in a play called Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,
where the head guy, he just says the human animal is a beast that dies. And if he's got money,
he buys and he buys and he buys. And I think one of the reasons why he buys everything that he could
buy is that in the back of his mind, he has the crazy idea that one of his purchases will be
life everlasting. Right. So the idea here is that the reason why I need more and always better
is that it has something to do with existential concerns. Now, again, you might say, well,
I don't believe that. That's where the research comes in. Yes. So when people are reminded that
they're going to die and you ask them how much money would you need to be rich? They say that they
need more. Right. When you ask them how, what they would spend their money on, it's mainly luxury
items that confer status, like expensive cars and watches. When people are reminded that they're
going to die, they're willing to pay more money to have like a star named after them in the sky.
When people are reminded that they're going to die and you ask them to draw a picture of a coin,
it's bigger. They draw it bigger as if money's bigger when death is on your mind. Right. And
then Danny, the one that I find, and we didn't do this work, my buddy Tom and his colleagues in
Poland did, but they just, they gave some people a stack of money and asked them to count it.
And then they gave other people just a stack of pieces of paper and asked them to count it.
Right. And then they took the money in the paper away and then they measured death anxiety.
And what they found was just having money in your hand reduce death anxiety. Wow.
That is how potent. So when we say money talks in bullshit walks, money is power. Yes. It is,
it is in part because yeah, when you have money, you can eat and go to the doctor,
but when you have money, it's like this magic thing shining in your pocket, protecting you
from the vagaries of life. Now these studies, were these only done in Americans or did you do it on
across multiple cultures? These have been done across cultures. Really? Was there any disparity
between different cultures or different? Good question. That has not been assessed. So that
would require that we look at people from different cultures in the same study. Yeah,
we do need to do that. Because it seems like Americans value money more than any other country
or any other place in the world, right? Like I think you've spoken to this before.
This is correct. Yeah, we, our values are based on that, on money and status and not on values or
integrity is what has happened, unfortunately. So again, to be fair, that there was a time
where we could have money and ethics, but not right now. I mean, as the Michael Sandel guy
points out in his book, The Tyranny of Merit, we're in a world right now where the average
young person thinks that it's fine to cheat, like on exams in school,
thinks that fraud and corporate settings is a legitimate way of getting ahead. We are in a
world right now that I do believe to be somewhat sociopathically individualistic,
in that we really do tend to value the achievements of individuals without adequately
recognizing that even the most distinguished individuals are products of the social and
cultural milieu that produce them. And moreover, being great is great, but how about just being
decent? Yeah, I think we have gotten to the point where we now undervalue some of the
characteristics that I used to be more proud of as an American, because we could be all for
individual development at the same time that we recognize our dependence on other individuals.
We can also do a much better job at making people realize that it is okay to be average,
that average person is, after all, average. Now, again, I'm sounding like father time,
but when I was a kid, everybody got to play Little League Baseball, even if you were terrible.
Yeah, that's no longer the case. When I was in college and I got a B in organic chemistry,
I was so happy that we got inebriated in my dorm room, and then we went to the football field
and ripped down the goalposts and brought them into the room. But now if a student gets a B,
they disembowel themselves in the parking lot. I think we have created a situation, frankly,
where our values are not generally attainable for the average individual, which is a recipe for
psychological despair. It's interesting too. I was just a week ago, I was in New York City with
my friend Julian Dory, who's got a podcast up there. We were both walking around noticing
just the wide variety of people that exist in New York City. It's known for being one of the most
the first major city of America. When you think of America, the first place people think of is
New York City, the Statue of Liberty, the Empire State Building. But it's like, when you look around,
there's no, if you think about what does it mean to be an American, the difference between
Israelis or people that are Jewish or people that are African or whatever it may be from any part of
the world, any part of the world, compared to here, is here there are more individuals. It's
more individualism here than anywhere else. Absolutely. That was a terrible way of saying it,
but it was, I think, a really critically important point. We are a more heterogeneous society
because, yeah, we're a potpourri of all of these different groups. And that we're only like 200
something years old. That's correct. And yeah, I mean, yeah, I like how you put it. I mean,
this is just an anecdote, but I was in New York City on September 11th, 2001, when the
World Trade Center got knocked down. And I was at the time a professor at Brooklyn College.
And Brooklyn College is rather unique because white people, at least when I was there around
2000, 2001, it was a very diverse school. So you had your white people and,
so let's say Italians, there were Jewish people, I'm not going to call them white,
because they were just begrudgingly declared white in the middle of the last century. The
definition of white has shifted over time. But anyway, forget about that. But in the
lunchroom at Brooklyn College, before 2001, yeah, there'd be the corner with the Jewish kids,
the corner with the black kids, the corner with the Russian kids.
Interesting.
And you're right, they would be like micro tribes.
Yeah.
However, after, for a few days after September 11th, they opened up the auditorium
at just to allow people who wanted to come in and sit. It's hard to describe what it was like
to watch the building melt while my students were telling me that their relatives were in it,
calling them saying they were hearing on the loudspeaker that everything was fine.
So we're watching the thing on fire and we're like, it's not fine. It's not fine.
But anyway, it was clearly people were traumatized. But I'll never forget what it was like for a few
days where the tribes were shattered and we just became Americans. I know it sounds a little corny.
No, it doesn't sound corny.
But it was amazing to momentarily be able to overcome the understandable cultural foundations
and embrace our common identity as Americans. And moreover, in the French newspaper Le Monde,
the headline the next day was, We Are All Americans. Now, this wasn't to suggest that
we should all become Americans and start playing baseball. It was just the point of,
let's momentarily unite and let's overcome what are ultimately secondary differences.
And this is what's hard about being an American, because the whole idea of America at its best
is that I can be a Chinese American. I am Chinese, proud of it, if I was. But I'm first and foremost
an American, African American, Asian American, Italian American. Yeah, I'm drifting a little
bit, Danny, but I think one of the current difficulties right now with the divisiveness
and polarization is that we can't even acknowledge that people we disagree with are fellow Americans.
It's a vulnerable position for us to be in. Do you think it's that existential
dread and threat of death that would happen on 9-11 is what brought us all together and is that,
because if you think of other cultures that had to deal with crazy existential threats,
Israel, great example, we never had that. And 9-11 kind of was the first time that we got to
experience that. Yeah, so that probably is well put, yes. And it's interesting, also,
you talk about George Bush and his approval ratings before and after September 11th,
which is fascinating. Yeah, just again, and what I like about, you know, I'm kind of an egghead,
but yeah, these are just, quote, facts. That's another thing about America, 2 plus 2 is 4.
Some things, there's no alternative facts, but George W. Bush had the lowest approval rating
in the history of presidential politics two days before September 11th. Three weeks later,
after he said, we will rid the world of evil and I believe God has chosen me to lead the country
during this perilous time, he had the highest approval rating. And we did dozens of studies
where we showed that people, Americans, they didn't like George Bush in a benign state of mind.
But if we reminded them that they were going to die, they liked him a lot more. So in 2004,
John Kerry ran against George Bush for president and in control conditions, the participants liked
John Kerry more than George Bush. But if we reminded them that they were going to die,
they liked Bush more than Kerry. And again, a lot of your, a lot of young people weren't around then,
but four days before the 2004 presidential election, John Kerry was actually winning
in the polls. And then Osama bin Laden put out a video saying he was going to attack us again.
And some people argued that that created the death reminder that enhanced people's
opinions of Bush. You know, fast forward to more recently, same thing with Donald Trump. In 2015,
we demonstrated that Americans did not care for Donald Trump. This is before he became
the Republican candidate for president, except if you reminded them they were going to die first.
Then they liked him more and said they were more likely to vote for him. And when Hillary Clinton
became the Democratic opponent, we found that they liked Americans liked Clinton more than Trump,
except if we reminded them they were going to die, then they liked Trump a lot more. I fast forward
to 2020. In our studies, white Americans in a control condition, they liked Joe Biden more
than Donald Trump. But if they were reminded they were going to die first, then they liked Trump
more than Biden. All right, let's be clear. This is not to suggest that your political preferences
are determined solely by existential anxieties. On the other hand, these are amazing studies that
momentary alterations in psychological conditions are able to nudge you in one direction or another.
And so back to politics just for a moment. But there's a reason why Steve Bannon,
who is Donald Trump's one of his closest advisors, they make no pretense of arguing about political
principles. Steve Bannon says our enemy is not the Democrats, our enemy is the media,
so we're going to flood the zone with shit. That's a quote. And then he says,
what gets people to the polls is fear and anger. And so the way I see it, what's happening right
now, now part of this, the pandemic has certainly aroused existential anxieties.
So is the prospect of the earth melting and the global economy imploding on itself.
So the point that we make these days is that Americans are saturated with death reminders,
whether they're aware of it or not. And this in turn increases their support for ideological
demagogues. I call Trump Orange Hitler. And I call him that because it's the same underlying
psychodynamic. It was Hitler who said he was going to make Germany great again.
Did he actually say that? Yes, he did. It was Hitler who used a lie about the Jews being responsible
for Germany losing World War One. Twenty years later, he used that same big lie. And it was Hitler
who said, if you're going to lie, go big. If you tell a big lie often enough, people will believe
you. Well, here we are in America in the same situation. Perhaps the world's greatest liar,
Donald Trump, perpetuating an obvious falsehood. And by the way, even people of good will could
disagree. Some people might say, oh, I do think that the election was rigged, but we should agree
at least in principle that the folks who are running for election are not the ones who should
arbitrate that. In other words, there's a reason why they have referees in sports. You don't get
to call it, you know, you're not able to play on a team and call things the way that you see them.
But anyway, back to the point, we're in the same situation where we've got an ideological demagogue
riding a lie in order to pursue political power by keeping people in a perpetual state
of existential anxiety. And studies have shown that that's exactly what's happening.
And so a few years ago, there was a study showing that support for Donald Trump in America
is correlated with death rates in different communities. And so, you know, basically,
Trump is lying and people's dying. And what's ironic is that he's killing his own people in
some ways. And that's increasing death anxiety that in turn fortifies support for his candidacy.
And that is, by the way, what some people argue are the psychodynamic underpinnings of fascism.
Is you have powerful autocratic leaders teaming up with corporate interests to take advantage
of a population by keeping them in a constant state of fear and rage. And this is by no,
to just make an important point, this is not a condemnation of the intelligence
or character of the average person who supports Donald Trump. As I think we were saying earlier.
I think most folks are kind and decent. And in the average setting, we have more in common
than otherwise. I think so too. Do you think it's accurate and or a good idea to say that Donald
Trump is the same thing as Hitler, because I don't think he was quite the same thing.
Yeah, he's actually working faster and getting shit done better. Now, it is the same thing.
They are both malignantly narcissistic sociopaths with delusions of paranoia and grandeur.
They are both singularly devoted to maintaining power. You know, I think that and yeah, it's
unfair to compare anybody to Hitler. I get that it's equally unfair, however, to not notice the
staggering commonalities. Hitler was elected without Russian interference. And it took him
several years in the 1930s to undermine the judiciary, to completely overwhelm the press,
to replace able civil servants with sycophantist cronies. Trump has done all of that.
So let's just look at the various indictments. And my point also, I don't mind being annoying
or political. If you're an American and you're a fan of democracy and you don't vote, fuck you.
If you do vote and you do so with a grotesque ignorance of the issues in question,
fuck you. And if you're unfamiliar with American history, I'll give another fuck you,
because it was George Washington as well as the founding fathers that they were against political
parties. That they said that once we have parties, then we're not going to be on the same team anymore.
And we're going to get into domestic conflicts. And then that's going to be a ripe opportunity
for an ideological demagogue to be elected and to ransack democracy. Well, that's precisely what
we are now witnessing in my estimation. Moreover, anyone who has an opinion about
President Trump and who hasn't read the Mueller report, fuck you. Because even if you don't have
time to read the report, how about the three-page executive summary? If you don't have time to read
that, read the entire sentence that Bill Barr mangled when he protected Trump by leaving out the
part where Mueller suggested that he was indeed guilty of obstructing justice and proposed that
there be a civil trial thereafter. All right, anyway, on top of that, if you've not read any of
the indictments, then how are you in a position to be a responsible citizen?
What does this say? DOJ under Barr wrongly withheld parts of Russia probe memo.
Thank you. Because he took a sentence that was extraordinarily damning, and he only read half
of it. And that was before the report was released. But anyway, ditto for the recent indictments.
Maybe people of goodwill could disagree, but shouldn't we disagree after being informed?
Less than 5% of Americans have actually read the indictments. And so anyway, my point is,
we as Americans have been grotesquely irresponsible. Let's stop blaming the leaders,
and let's step up. It's not only our right to vote, it's our responsibility,
but again, it's our responsibility to do so in an educated fashion.
I wonder about these indictments, and I wonder what the thinking is behind them, especially
when it comes to what they're doing in my view with these indictments is
they're making him an underdog. And I think these indictments and making him more of an underdog,
and if he gets a fucking mugshot, I think they're just handing him the presidency.
Yeah, they're not actually. They're handing him the nomination. The presidency,
in the absence of voter suppression, is highly unlikely. And I just say that based on electoral
college politics and recent polls. He is unlikely to win a general election, especially in Georgia
right now. You know, it comes down, right, and again, this is, we're getting political, but
yeah, we're not a democracy. We already know that the next election is going to be decided by
three or four states. They even know the particular neighborhoods. You know, if it were
just the popular vote, there's no doubt that Trump would lose by 10 to 20 million votes,
no matter who he ran against. So that's not, oh yeah, he lost the first one by 3 million.
He lost the next one by 7 million. The amount of effort that's now being devoted in states like
Texas, Tennessee, Florida to ensure that the people are restricted from voting
is extraordinarily comparable to what happened after the Civil War during the reconstruction.
So in South Carolina, for example, right after the Civil War, there were African Americans elected
to Congress. There were like 80,000 people that voted. Like 10 years later, there were like 800
black people who voted in South Carolina. I guess when you start hanging people and burning.
Republican too, right? Yeah. But Lincoln. That's right. But the point is, is that,
no, I don't think that what's happening now will ensure a victory in a general election.
Also, it's Donald Trump who is portraying himself as a victim. You know, he is an
evil genius in my estimation. He's a moron, first of all, intellectually. And no, that's
a declarative statement. His professor at the Wharton School of Business, where he said he
finished first in his class, said 30 years ago, he's the stupidest student that he ever had.
But he's a genius appealing to brainstem. Yes, exactly. And so he knows how to schmooze. He
knows how to get people to like him. And he is like, if you got in a room with him, he could
get you to like him. Absolutely. I like him. I come from the Bronx. He comes from Queens. He's
a likable asshole. But he's also an extraordinarily dangerous one. And he's the one. Remember,
he declared that he was running for president in anticipation of being indicted. Most presidential
races don't start this early. So basically, he's got it backwards. He's saying, oh, you're indicting
me, but every time my, you know, you think I'm going to win, that's when you break out another
indictment. But the indictments, you know, maybe they should have happened sooner.
Some people speculate in the timing of them. Yeah, they probably should have. But I blame all that
on Kevin McCarthy and what's his face? Mitch McConnell. They're the ones listen to them the
day after January 6th when they said Trump is responsible. And he should have been impeached
and convicted at that time. And if that had happened, we wouldn't be in the mess that we now are.
And to your point about like the overwhelmingly narcissistic sociopathic traits, I also believe
that that is very much a thing with a lot of people in politics, especially high level of politics.
And business. And business. Yes. CEOs of Fortune 500 companies are way up there on narcissism and
sociopathy against suggesting that a touch of those, right? Remember, you said earlier, Danny,
and it was a great point. We're on a continuum. And it could be, and some evolutionary types have
pointed out that there may be times where we're well served by a somewhat narcissistic,
maybe a tad sociopathic kind of leader. It's when we get to the extremes, because there's no
moral compass that underlies any of that. Everything we've just been talking about,
is that sort of encompassing your, I don't know if you started writing it, but you talked about
something called left or right is beside the point. Yeah, I never did that. So I would like
to write a book called Why Left and Right, or Both Beside the Point. And I haven't done it yet,
although I've been blubbering about it at times. And my point, Danny, is that just like political
parties, we've reduced this to like a worldwide wrestling federation thing. We're like, oh,
you're a liberal. So if I lean left, that means I'm leaning away from the right. And it's like a
tug of war, right? Yes. And it's like, oh, you know, you're the encompassing repository of evil.
No, you're like anal cranial fusion. And my point is that that's that's an extraordinarily absurd
way to look at this, right? First of all, political orientation is in large measure
genetically acquired, right? So if you take identical twins, and you separate them at birth,
and raise them in different parts of earth, if one twin is conservative, so will the other be.
Really? It's not identical, but it's what's called a heritability quotient that goes from zero to
one. And the heritability quotient for political orientation is somewhere around point four or
point five. And all that means is that if we had a room full of people, that about half of the
variation in the group of politics can be accounted for genetically, right? So let's just think about
that for a moment. If if there's if some people are conservative and others are liberal, and it's in
our genes, not saying there's a conservative gene, it could be a combination of them, doesn't it suggest
that they are both adaptive, perhaps in different ways? Does that make sense? In other words,
why why would there still be variations on both sides of the spectrum that if they didn't perhaps
serve some kind of evolutionary function? All right, so there's a guy in Israel, his name's
Galad Hershberger, and he's at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya. And he he wrote a paper
with his colleagues that I find very compelling. And it's like, why can't we look at it as if
we need everybody? In other words, and we may have been talking about this earlier, but if we were
all conservative, we'd be sitting on the floor of a cave, you know, literally, because by definition
conservatives cling to tradition. All right, if we were all liberal, we would be doing stupid
shit. I'd be like, oh, I have an idea, let's put an asshole on my forehead. Or what about the electric
spoon? And we would be summarily just wandering around doing random stuff, ignoring past experiences.
And so I like people who say, wouldn't the best kind of society be some kind of sweet spot,
where we had both liberal and conservative folks? And what Galad has pointed out, and this is based
on research, is that in general, when we look at intergroup conflict, that so conservatives
are better than liberals at detecting external threats. You know, because liberals are like,
fuck, you know, everything's fine. Kumbaya. Kumbaya. Let's do 5k race in t-shirts. And
conservatives at the high end are paranoid and afraid of everything. All right, but,
but it's functional to be afraid sometimes. Yes. So conservatives are better at detecting
threat. Liberals are better at negotiating peaceful conflicts or peaceful resolutions
of conflicts. And so in a functioning society, wouldn't we want to have both? Yes.
Don't we need some people that are saying we're going to be fucked? Pay attention. Right, right.
And don't we need others that can step in and do a gondy or mother Teresa? And my point,
and the older I get, the more convinced I am of this, is that, yeah, we're thinking about it too
individualistically when we're like, oh, I'm a liberal. That's good. You're conservative. That's
bad. I think we're better off accepting that we exist on a continuum. And we need each other.
And we need each other. That's my current preoccupation. That's fascinating. I love that.
Yeah, I do love it, Danny. I really do. Because right now, all I see is on both sides,
how are we going to get rid of the damn progressives? Or what am I going to do with these trailer
parked people with their MAGA hats? And it's like, no, because basically,
yeah, basically we need each other. Right. And at our best, as you put it earlier,
when I see it in many public settings, just folks cheerfully engaged with each other.
I'm like, you know, again, it is corny and simple-minded.
I think a lot of it has to do with communication. Absolutely.
And technology. Communication and connection. Yes.
And literally a direct connection between humans.
Not through Twitter. Yeah, honestly.
And this brings us to another uplifting point about, we talked about this before we started,
but who was the guy who predicted our civilization would collapse by 2025?
Yeah, this is Peter Turchin.
Yeah, so he wrote a book called End Times, and he was a professor at the University of
Connecticut and is now at Oxford in England. And I'm just becoming familiar with his work.
He is an ecologist by trade, and he studies how societies collapse and what we might do
to forestall or at least deflect a bit. Yeah, awesome. There we go.
Yeah. And so his point is, and it's all based on math models of a study of over 100 societies.
Wow. Yeah. And I like that he starts out by saying, I'm not, it's not a political argument.
What he's insisting is that we can predict mathematically when a society is going to
collapse. And he argued 20 years ago that the collapse of American society is inevitable.
And the argument is based on a couple of things going on. But the main thing is,
he talks, first of all, about an overabundance of cultural elites. So he's like, look,
one thing is he's like all societies are hierarchical. You know, stop being like
Walt Disney and knocking people for being organized in a bureaucratic fashion.
And there are going to be people that are richer than others. And he's basically, well,
that's the way it has always been. But then he says, yeah, but there are certain times historically
and he describes it metaphorically as like a game of musical chairs. He's like, look,
there's only one president still, you know, there's only 50 senators, but there's a whole
lot more people that want to go to Harvard. And, and so in the old days, there weren't that most
of the admissions to these schools were all legacy, you know, you had to be white, you had to be
Protestant. Well, now there's all kinds of folks clamoring for admission. But there's still the
same amount of elite positions. And what Turchin said is what that does is to create a host of
disaffected wannabes. And so, and that that's where a lot of populist movements start. And so he
points out, if you look at what's going on right now, you know, you've got Donald Trump,
you know, proclaiming himself, you know, one of the people. No, but he's not one of the people.
You know, his dad gave him a million dollars when he was still in diapers. He went to Penn
Ted Cruz. Do you know where he went to school? I have no idea. Princeton. All right. What's his
face? Josh Hawley, the senator from Missouri, he went to Stanford. DeSantis, Ron DeSantis. He went
to Yale and Harvard. The guy who's the senator in Louisiana, I think his name is Kennedy. Anyway,
he went to Oxford. In other words, these people that are pretending that they're, you know, spraying
cheese whiz on a cracker down in a 12 pack of beer in the trailer park that are leading
these populist revolts, they're not really working class people. They just want to take over the power.
It's all optics. It's all optics. All right. So that's one thing that Churchin says
often starts the decomposition of societies is when there's too many people vying for positions of
power, but more understandable. And then he says at the same time that that's happening. So he's
like, you got a lot of elites that are disappointed. But then he's like, yeah, but then what's really
happening are rich corporate interests sucking the lifeblood out of the poor. All right. So America
peaked around 1970 something in the aftermath of World War II because of the New Deal, which
wouldn't have happened if rich oligarchs didn't accept a higher tax rate. All of that changed the
day that Ronald Reagan was elected president. He ripped the solar panels off the White House.
Ivan Bosky convicted felon said, greed is good. What good is the moon if you can't buy or sell it?
And until then, as wealth rose in America, so did minimum wage and so did the income of the
average American, the average white American, the rising tide lifts all boats. But that changed in
1980. Since Reagan's presidency adjusted for inflation, the average working class wage has
declined. Whereas the average CEO in America now makes in a day what their employees make in a year.
And the last time that the richest 50 people on earth owned half of earth or more was in the
gilded age just before the depression. So anyway, what Turchin says is what happens when the rich
get too greedy is that the poor get miserable. They get to the point where there's not enough hours
in the day to work at Walmart, which by the way has more part-time workers than anyone on earth,
so they don't have to pay them benefits. So anyway, you're at a point where it is not physically
possible to survive on minimum wage. And people then get angry, they get depressed, their life
expectancy goes down. And this is the point where the Hitler's and the Trumps and the Mussolini's
and the guy in Brazil and the guy in Hungary. This is where the fascists wannabes tend to arise
because they come into power in order to deflect the anger and despair of the masses
in pursuit of maintaining the financial interests of the rich. And he calls that a wealth pump.
And again, without any politics or judgment, he's just saying this is the way it is.
But how specifically does it collapse?
He says that, there you go, you are awesome, Danny. No, because what he says is I want to
be really mathematical. And what I can tell you is that when the discrepancy between wealth
gets to a certain level that collapse is inevitable, what I can't tell you is how long it will take,
what form it will take, and whether or not people in power at the time
will notice what's happening and consider doing something to address the underlying concerns.
And so he gives historical examples in England hundreds of years ago, and I'm not a historian,
where he's like, oh, well, here in one century, this shit hit the fan, and then there was a
civil war for 200 years. But then he's like, oh, yeah, but in this other time, the king realized
that maybe it'd be better if everybody got fed. And so they tweak the way that resources are
distributed to address the anger and fear and material deprivation in a way that restores
some kind of social equilibrium. Now, again, this is not a Marxist diatribe, because what
Turchin is saying is that societies come and go, they all collapse eventually. And so what we need
to do is to think about what we're going to do or not. But what it looks like we're doing now
is, if anything, accelerating the rate of disintegration by increasing the transfer of wealth
from the public to the few. And again, that's not a political statement. No one disputes
that the tax cuts from the Trump administration were largely devoted to the richest Americans.
And that that is responsible for about a quarter of the current debt.
But a lot of the problems that I think of when we're talking about this is I don't think of
necessarily policies like tax cuts for the rich. I think of, for example, what's going on now,
the government just gave like a trillion, a bazillion dollars to fight the war in Ukraine,
but then we have people, homeless people in every major city all over the place.
Whose fault is that? What is that? What is responsible for that being able to happen in the
country? Look, my rap to be annoying is let's all look in the mirror. We are responsible.
So I can't, there's a literature about this and we'll talk and I may have to send you some stuff.
But basically that argument, which is a, it's a traditionally conservative one,
we're pissing away our money in Ukraine. The argument is that if we weren't
sending Ukraine a trillion dollars, we'd be feeding poor Americans.
And in cycle babble, that's what's called a zero-sum argument that anything that you're
giving to somebody, you're taking away from something else.
This is a very strong belief of conservative Americans. So one of the reasons why they are
so hostile to any effort to foster equality is that they perceive that anything that black
people get is being taken away from them. It's factually incorrect. In other words,
white Americans receive much more in the way of welfare than do African Americans.
Really? Oh, absolutely. And moreover, rich Americans, they get much more in tax breaks
than poor Americans get in what are declared as handouts. See, one thing that is important that
I've learned from political scientists is that there's a difference when somebody gives you
something. Yeah, it's a handout, right? So food stamps, you poor bastard, you're grabbing that.
But it's no less of a handout when I get a shit ton of money as a deduction for the interest
that I pay on a mortgage. Right, right. Well, that's a prop for the rich.
Tax deferred retirement accounts. That's a prop for the rich, people that have minimum wage.
I agree with that, yeah. The point, though, is that it's not that if you give something to one
person, you're taking it away from another. Heather McPhee, right? It's not taken, like,
just because we give trillions of dollars to another country for a war doesn't mean that if we didn't
do that, all the poor people would get that money. They still probably wouldn't get that money.
But so then why not treat them as separate problems and address them accordingly?
We still pay farmers to not grow food in America. It's just hypocritical, I guess.
It is. But yes, but we can. That's where I'm a fan of democracy. In other words,
Lyndon Johnson comes in and he has this idea of the great society. This is where we get all
these efforts, head start, food stamps. The effort was to give everybody a bit of a boost.
I think we've lost a lot of those efforts along the way. I kind of forgot what I was
ranting about there, though. Yeah, so we were talking about the collapse of society.
Yeah. Okay, so back to collapsing. Basically, so you got too many people wanting to be president
and all of the elite wannabes, the Ted Cruzes, they then become your little mini-fascists,
trying to arouse the people. Meanwhile, the people are getting miserable because the rich are
getting richer. Look what's happening right now. Have you noticed that? Do you know what right to
work laws are? I don't think so. Okay, so they're in all the Republican states and those are laws
designed to destroy unions and eradicate minimum wage. So they're saying we want to give you the
freedom to work. So no more minimum wage right now. There's like 12-year-olds working at McDonald's
and stuff. So the point, though, is that there's basically things are just miserable. So you got
people getting more miserable, the rich are getting richer, and the anger and resentment
is being directed at your scapegoat, De Jure. So the Germans blame the Gypsies and the Jews.
The Americans blame whatever, the negrotonous hordes storming the border, the Islamic terrorists,
the Chinese raping us, and so on. And so basically, if I understand,
Turchin, his point is that what makes things very difficult in the moment is it's very hard to see
what's going on, except like you say, well, what might we do? Yeah, in my opinion, what we might do
is to step back and think about what might help. So again, to be particular and at the risk of
sounding somewhat political, we're the only industrialized country on earth where healthcare
is not cons-, it's a commodity. It's not a right. So we're the one, we're the only ones who say,
hey, if you want insurance, it's like a car, you know, just buy it. Every other country
actually provides it. And we're an anomaly here, because basically, historically,
every European country, right after women get to vote, it doesn't take more than a few decades
before there's universal healthcare, free education, much more care throughout the
life course and then in retirement. So I guess my point would be, yeah, we used to vote about that
stuff. And so, and there was a moment when people voted in ways that were consistent with what their
interests appeared to be. In other words, when I was your age in the 1960s and 70s, let's say, or
whatever, there are any work, most working-class white people, and black people for that matter,
they would vote for Democrats because it was Lyndon Johnson saying social security good
and food stamps good, Head Start good. And right now, as we were talking about earlier,
I think we're in the ironic situation of people being galvanized to support leaders who are on
record as proposing to make matters worse for them. So I'd rather be wrong about all of this.
Yeah, I hope you are. Yeah. But at the very least, if we are in a state of societal decomposition,
I hope that these kinds of, not to be naive, but hopefully these kinds of conversations
are at least, even if it's a preliminary stimulant to think about some of this stuff.
Yeah. And another one of these polarizing topics that these politicians like to cling on to is
the climate change thing. There's no nuance in the conversation. It's just based on camp. I think
there was an empirical poll done or a study done on people who believe that humans are
contributing to climate change, people who don't. And you could basically, you could figure it out
on what their political party is. You could figure out what their belief is solely based
on their political party. Yeah, but that's only since the 1970s. So we have National Parks because
Teddy Roosevelt is a Republican and he put them aside on the grounds that we needed to conserve.
The Environmental Protection Agency was in the Nixon administration, another Republican.
It was only around 1980 or so. In the 1980s or so, you could not predict by political party.
And now you can. And my point is that what that suggests is that it has become an ideological
position, void of rational cogitation as you proposed it. Right. There's so much nuance when
it comes to that. I've had many people on the podcast who study ancient civilizations and
the ancient Egypt and the pyramids and stuff like that. And these people that have done
these ice core samples where they drill down miles into the ice cores and they figure out
like the fluctuation. Are you familiar with like the Younger Dryas Impact Hypothesis?
How there's been these crazy fluctuations and heating and cooling. But that's true that we've
been in much hotter climates and much colder climates. But at the same time, you can't say
that humans don't affect the climate. Like we do affect the climate. They're both true.
So people don't like that. Important. Yes, we don't like nuance, especially when we're in
a state of distress. Right. And yet that's when we most need it. Yes, there you go.
Well, Ed, there's a book called The Ministry for the Future. I don't know if you've ever
heard of that one, but it's a science fiction book. And it was basically, anyway, it's a guy
named Kim Stanley Robinson, I think. Yeah. And his view, it's kind of like you said, is can't we
step back and just acknowledge that things are rather complicated? Right. I like your point.
I've been learning from some folks about these just indigenous histories where they used to
have like these apocalyptic narratives. And archaeologists or anthropologists would say,
wow, the Native Americans, they must have been doing too much peyote. And then we realized,
no, these were narratives that arose during times of extraordinary climactic stress.
So it's clearly true that we've almost been wiped out before. Right. There's no doubt about that.
Yeah, what makes this different, as I understand it, is that the last time the earth got 10 degrees
hotter, it wiped out 90% of the life on earth. And it took 50 million years
to recover. This was like 270 million years ago. Right. Although I probably botched every detail,
but that's not, and someone will let us know. But that's the point is that, yeah, things come
and go. And the coming and going is now, I think, almost impossible to understand
without accepting that we're complicit. Right. Moreover, I like some of the arguments,
Danny, where we're very, very nuanced people. Just point out that there's kind of an asymmetry,
because you could say, let's just do nothing. Or you could say, we better do something,
because the odds are it may be that if we do nothing, we're, quote, fine.
But the danger of obliterating ourselves is much higher than if we air in the other direction.
Right now is an interesting time, too, when it comes to this topic, because right now it's like
we're the closest we've ever been to the Cold War, where we have this threat between Russia and the
United States, the two biggest nuclear powers in the world. We don't know when a nuke is going to
go off or when what country is going to set off a tactical nuke. And where we've come to
technologically today, I hope I'm optimistic that that's not going to happen, and we've kind of
evolved past that. But then I'm also interested in the technology side of it. I know you talked
to Lex. I don't know what he said to you specifically about that. But with the development of
artificial intelligence and machine learning and chat GPT and stuff like that, when we start to create
consciousness, what happens when we create something similar to ourselves that doesn't
have this mortality to it or this fear of immortality to it? Yeah, so great point, Danny. And
I say this sometimes and it sounds silly, but I can't think of a more important question.
You know, if we could answer that, we'd be chugging rum out of a coconut with our Nobel prizes
on the beach. But I work with some folks now that are concerned with those issues. And they
literally, the way that they're thinking about them is in terms of AI ethics. They're saying,
and some of the questions are, to have an ethical AI, does it have to be an embodied and mortal
entity? So I work with some folks that did a podcast. It's a dramatic podcast. It's called
The Spark Hunter File. And it is about, it's set in 2030 or so. And it's about the most sophisticated
artificial intelligence. It's a female and it's an embodied robotic form. And the AI entity finds
out from the guy that created her that he made her mortal. So it's basically a science fiction show
about the first existential crisis of an artificial intelligence. Wow, what is it called
again? It's called The Spark Hunter File. The Spark Hunter File. Yeah, I'll send you these things.
But again, it's very fascinating because you brought it up. It's like, wow, would it require
some kind of existential apprehensions in order to ensure that AIs are not ultimately
devoid of conscience? What do you think would happen if AIs were devoid of that consciousness
of immortality? I don't know. Yeah, what do you think? I don't know either. I wonder what would
happen if we weren't. I don't even know what would happen if we didn't know about or if we
weren't aware or a better way of putting it. I don't understand. I can't comprehend what life
would be like if we could live 500,000 to a million years. Right. I like what you talk about in your
book as you said that if we were aware we could live a half a million to a million years,
suddenly we wouldn't be able to have, the definition of a hero wouldn't exist or a coward
wouldn't exist because that's all defined by the finitude of our life and the risks that
we're willing to take in life for different reasons. Yeah, I find those ideas compelling,
Danny. I am in all truth. I'm still disinclined to die and yet I find those arguments convincing.
In other words, if you were reading a book and it never ended, it would be tiresome.
I think it was Lucretius, some ancient dude who just said, you know, life's like a banquet,
but isn't what makes a banquet great that there comes a point where you have enough
and you're done. And he just says that to lead a full life requires that it be bounded.
You know, there was a time that we're not here and now we are. And you know, it's a clich,
but all good things do have an end. And that in no way suggests that we should avoid making our
lives richer or even longer. And yet a lot of folks that are like having their heads chopped off
when they die and frozen in Arizona. Oh my God, I had a guy on here that paid like hundreds of
thousands of dollars to do that. The thing around his neck, he's like a dog tag. In case he gets in
a car accident, they know to like call the company and freeze him. And to me, and again,
with all due respect, that's rather sad and also rather silly because you're going to pay a shit
ton of money. And you know, Arizona's going to be uninhabitable in the next decade. And when
the grid goes down, do you think the owners of those cryogenics places are going to be all too
worried about the frozen heads in the middle of the hell? No, they're not. No, they're not. So
anyway, who's going to be the guy to make sure their lawyer lives forever? Right? No, there you
go. So anyway, yeah, so I see most of those efforts to be thinly veiled, attempts to forestall
death permanently. And again, I see that as much as I like being alive and hope that I've got a
couple more rotations. Yeah, I feel... But don't you wish you could be there to watch your kids
get old? Of course. And your grandkids? No, absolutely. Yeah.
It's such a conundrum, isn't it? There you go. Do you think there's a connection
between the fear of death, religion, and the UFO phenomenon? Because what I noticed talking to
people, I had a lady in here who was a professor of religious studies in North Carolina, and
she was approached by somebody who had recently become familiar with the history of the UFO
phenomenon in the United States, Roswell, everywhere else. And she found like a stark
connection between some of the ancient biblical texts with some of these nuns and these ladies
that writing in their journals from the ancient times that are identical to some of the modern
day depictions of UFOs. And I've noticed there is a huge community of people in the U.S. that are...
They treat the UFO phenomenon like a religion. Yeah. Do you ever think about that? I do, but only
peripherally, because I don't know enough about it. So I've heard what you said about the historical
commonalities, and it's like, wow. Yeah, I don't know. I do know that...
Or I do suspect, rather, that existential anxieties are perfused throughout. In other words,
in times of upheaval, there's increased belief in conspiracies and UFOs. I'm not suggesting that
there's nothing to observe, just noting that there appears to be some coordination.
And schizophrenia, too, is a big thing you talk about in the book. Yeah. What is the relationship
with fear of death and schizophrenia? Our argument in the book is that death anxiety
underlies or amplifies all psychological disorders. Right. That's a rather strong claim.
We're not saying that it is the sole cause of psychological disorders. It certainly cannot
explain the differences between them, but... And we're following a guy, Erwin Yalom, who,
in a book, Existential Psychotherapy, he just said that he called psychological disorders clumsy
mismanagement of existential terror. Now, I don't like that, because it suggests that we have more
discretion over our conditions than we might want to, than we actually do. But so we have done
experiments with clinical populations, where we showed, for example, that when people who are
afraid of spiders are reminded that they're going to die, they become more afraid of spiders.
When people that are OCD, obsessive-compulsive, when we remind them that they're going to die
and then send them into the bathroom to wash their hands, they use more soap and water.
When we remind socially anxious people that they're going to die,
they go hide in a closet for longer. People that are prone to PTSD become more psychologically
dissociated. So everything that we have studied so far, we've demonstrated that death anxiety
magnifies those symptoms. When it comes to schizophrenia, thankfully, there's no
ethics board that will allow us to remind schizophrenic people that they're going to die.
In principle, if we did do that, though, what we would predict is that death reminders would
increase delusions of grandeur and paranoia. This is based on just transcripts of schizophrenic
people talking about their own concerns. The argument is that the schizophrenic individual
in the wake of existential anxiety inflates themselves to superhuman proportions
while declaring themselves omniscient and aware of everything that's happening at all times.
Yeah, that makes sense. Getting back to the UFO phenomenon thing, I just see whether it be
more paranoia or more anxiety, it's the hope that there's something else out there that's
going to save us from ourselves. There's also many books and many testimonies from army generals
talking about these things hovering around nuclear bases and disarming nukes. These things
are going to save us. They're going to save us from ourselves. That's magnificent. Again,
very existential because in Greek tragedy, the worst than death is to be no one surrounded by no
thing. I think that's correct. Here you have the UFOs filling this existential void. There is
something out there. The Yolom dude, he calls it a magic helper that we're always hoping that
behind the next cloud or the next bush is someone or something paying attention.
It's also interesting because it's a phenomena that sort of hangs out on the fringe of being,
there's not enough evidence to convince the skeptic, but there's enough evidence to convince
somebody who's willing to believe. That's correct. I think if those things were to come, if a UFO
was to land on in the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue and come out and say peace, greetings,
earthlings, I think that we would replace UFOs with something else probably. Yeah.
Because we yearn for something, something we don't understand. In fact, there's a guy
that Becker writes about who wrote a book called Immortality. I can't remember his name and it
doesn't matter. He just said that if necessary, what would replace God is like a giant slot machine.
Because we just have to think that there's a jackpot somewhere.
One of the other things I want to talk to you about was people that are near death or suffering
from diseases or cancer experimenting with psychedelics and the phenomena of ego death.
Like I told you, I had that guy Andrew Gallimore in here who has that extended state DMT study
where he keeps people on DMT for extended period of time so they can map out what's going on in
that quote unquote world that they're experiencing. What sort of science or studies are you aware of
in regards to this research? Yeah. No, this is awesome. So we did some research
in the near death area. Nothing new. We just, we looked at people who had had near death experiences
and we replicated a common finding which is that it reduces death anxiety. And what we found
is that having a near death experience reduces death anxiety because people's
notion of what death means changes. So like some people see death as, I'm just totally obliterated
and annihilated. Other people, they see it as more of a continuous transition. It need not be to
immortality, but they're like, no, I'm not, I am in a different state and I'm not me anymore.
But all of the molecules that make up me, well, they've been around forever and they're going to go
and mingle with the rest of the cosmos. And so what the near death experience appears to be doing
is to alter our conception of death, to render it not an immediate and total obliteration.
And that appears to be what the psychedelics are doing. First of all, there's one line of work
with the terminally ill people. And these findings are magnificent. Sometimes a single
dose of psilocybin reduces anxiety and depression and people that have had no prior drug experience.
And the same folks that are doing that research are now extending the range of people that are
receiving psychedelic treatment. It's no longer just terminally ill. It's now being used for folks
with PTSD, for example. And it really does appear to have remarkably palliative effects.
Some of the folks that I'm familiar with, they talk about it in terms of that the word cosmic
connection comes up. Whereas people who have had positive psychedelic experiences, whether they're
traumatized or not, yeah, what they often say is I saw a completely different world, the culturally
constructed world that I learned about and live in. Yeah, that momentarily dissolved. And I got to see
a world where I recognize that everything is connected. Everyone is related. And even though
in the overall schema thinks I'm an inconsequential spec of transient dust, I am still involved and
always have been. In other words, if you're alive today, well, then you're descendant from
the first living thing, right? And you're related to everything that's ever been alive, right?
You're more related to me than a fig or a turtle, right? Well, and that means we're going to be
related to everything that's ever been alive. And well, anyway, that's the kind of stuff I
remember from my hallucinogenic days of yesteryear. That's the kind of stuff that's now being
reported in psychedelic therapy. Just this really radical sense of total contentment,
you know, kind of based on this tripod of psychological well-being. It's all humility
and gratitude. Yeah, but because basically there's this sense of awe just like, wow,
you know, the world is infinitely large and beyond my comprehension. And yet here I am
getting a peek. That's like awesome. Right. And then again, the irony is that one result of awe
is humility, which Americans need to look in a dictionary because we see humility
as something bad like self-deprecation. But humility is just really recognizing your proper
position in the universe. And in the overall scheme of things, we really are radically
inconsequential, right? You're born in a body, not of your choice in a time and place,
not of your choosing. You're here for a tiny amount of time. And then, you know, off to the
next generation. And the point is, is that when you get that feeling, it doesn't undermine your
self-esteem. It actually at times makes you feel better. Because what that does is to say, well,
maybe I'm not going to be an Einstein. Maybe I'm not going to be Mother Teresa or Jesus or
Phil in the blank. I'm going to be me. And I'm going to do things. And I can't know ahead of time.
So does that mean it sort of renders the whole notion that us needing self-esteem
sort of less meaningful? Like it makes...
Yes. Okay. In my opinion. Or rather, how about it broadens the scope of what is meaningful and
valuable. So there's this guy, Oliver Berkman. And he has the, he calls it cosmic and significance
therapy. And he's not knocking self-esteem. He's like, yeah, you could be proud of yourself. You
wrote a book. You made a shit ton of money. On the other hand, that obscures other aspects of our
existence that might be psychologically debilitating. In other words, you might have been, I might have
been so busy worrying about whether I'm going to sell enough of these warm at the core books so that
I could be on some Amazon list that, you know, I didn't notice that the old woman who lives next
door to me is struggling. Let's say it snows at our house. And I just didn't notice that there was a
lot of snow. I'm saying this because we had neighbors who were elderly back in the day.
And I noticed once I'm like, God, I'm an asshole. I'm racing off to write a sentence. Why don't I
pick up a snow shuttle and help the person next to me? All right. Well, so another example, you're
like walking on the street. You see somebody. You've never seen them before. And for some reason,
you just kind of look up and give them one of these, you know, hi, how you doing? You're never
going to see them again. You just like acknowledge the existence of a fellow human. Well, how do you
know that person wasn't walking to the nearest bridge to kill themselves? And what you just did
by your momentary connection with an at the moment struggling human is to not only save their lives,
but what if they're the next Gandhi who's going to go on to lead Earth to a radical transformation
that saves all of humanity? Well, what? And so the point that these folks are trying to make
is that there's a whole lot of ways to have a meaningful life and that we should become more
aware of them and take greater advantage of those possibilities. Yes. And again,
what I like about that, Danny, is like this is not to knock more conventional, culturally constructed
pursuits. Right. You can have both. Can have both. So this is let's get back to we don't need to be
either liberal or conservative. We could be both. We don't need to. I like I sometimes I talk in
terms of heroism and I'm like, well, you got heroes with a capital H, you know, there's Jesus and
Buddha and Einstein. And then you could be heroic with a lowercase H, people that just
literally make the best of the lives that the world has dealt them. Right. And yeah, I'm of
the my current view for me. I haven't gotten there yet. Yeah, but I I like, you know, like anybody
if somebody says, oh, I like your ideas. I think they're interesting. Yeah, I like that. I get great
joy from that. And I get great joy from walking my little dog around the block. And I want to get
to the point where they are not necessarily any different in terms of their potential
value psychologically or otherwise. Yeah, there's a lot of layers of the onion to peel back. I think
it would be beneficial if a lot of people in power were forced to take psychedelics.
Yes. Now again, you're too young, a guy named Aldous Huxley. And he wrote a book up Brave New
World. Have you ever heard of that? Yeah. All right. He in a magazine. So he also wrote a book
called Doors of Perception. Do you know that book? I don't know that one. So in his fifties,
he took psilocybin for the first time. And he wrote a book about it called Doors of Perception,
Magnificent Book. It's in the 1950s. And then in the 1960s, the most popular magazine in the
United States, it was either Life or Look magazine. It'd be like Newsweek or Time magazine today.
Yeah, he wrote an article saying that in the future, every world leader will have had psychedelics.
And every child will have had psychedelics in grade school as part of their education into the
world. Yeah. Wow. All right. Back to my day with Jordan Peterson. We actually spent a few of those
hours talking about the virtues of psychedelic experiences. I can't remember the exact details,
but we were even, he was saying, let's go to South America and do that.
Ayahuasca. Ayahuasca together. He was aware that I have the hippie background,
but he was quite serious about those experiences being of extraordinary potential value.
What is your personal belief on what happens when we die?
I don't have one. I know I'm waffling, Danny, but I've already admitted, for better or worse,
that, yeah, I'm not a big fan of dying. At the same time, I believe it to be the
proper culmination of a life well lived. That's just natural. And I'm going with the
ancients on this one. Just as I was, to my knowledge, completely unaware of the billions of years
that the world was here, but I wasn't, my guess is that a nanosecond or so after I expire,
that it will be no different than before you were born. Yeah. But I want to have it both ways,
because I really am of this Epicurean persuasion. They're the ones that talk about that we are
just a bunch of atoms. And before they came together to make us, they've been bouncing
around the universe since the Big Bang. That's not a comforting view.
I know, but I'm trying to make it. I'm trying to make it so. That's correct.
I thought about that before. I remember being very young thinking about this and thinking
about like, before I was born, it was just black nothing. Yeah. Is that what it is after we die?
Yeah. And so if my buddy Jeff Greenberg were here, he wouldn't
be blubbering. Jeff's point would be we can dance around all of this, all we want.
And there's no way to put a good spin on what turns out to be almost of necessity.
A state of ambivalence of sorts. I guess where I keep coming back to, it's hard to love life
at the same time that one proclaims that you're just totally fine with being devoid of it.
Right? So I'm like, yeah. So in a sense, you love life more being aware of
nothing, nothing, there being nothing at the end of it. I don't know that I do. I'm just saying
that it's hard. Yeah. If I hear your point, you're like, no, none of these things are
particularly soothing. And I'm with you on that. So you don't find a soothing?
No. That's my buddy Jeff's point. It is, yeah, we can be hippy like maybe do a few gummies and
you're like, oh, I'm down. I'm fine with death. No, we're not. And yeah, I don't know if that's,
yeah, I don't know if that's idiosyncratic or if that's just a fundamental property
of life, which is a resistance to premature termination at all costs.
Well, hey, Sheldon, I really appreciate you talking to me. We just did three hours.
Tell people where they can find more of your information in your book. I love your book.
I'm a huge fan of not only the contents of it, but I love the title, The Worm at the Core. It's
a very metal title. Yeah, it is metal. And that's actually a line from a, who's the guy, William
James. Anyway, no, thank you, Danny. We wrote a book called The Worm at the Core on the role of
death and life that that's around. I do podcast stuff. I work at Skibmore College in Saratoga
Springs, New York, and people that have computers will have no trouble finding my email address. And
feel free to be in touch. I said this before we started talking live, but I think what you and
fellow podcasters are doing is of an estimable value. If you're having trouble sleeping,
you know, send me an email. I'll send you one of our technical papers. But to me,
most strikingly important is the hope that these ideas are interesting enough for people to jump in
don't mindlessly believe anything that you've heard us say. So much is to be open to the
possibility that it might be relevant to your own life and those are the people around you. And
yeah, so yeah, that's kind of how to find me. I don't have a website or, and I don't know how to
use any social media stuff, which is probably for the better. But yeah, that's it. I'm a little
surprised you said we were talking for three hours. I was like 30 minutes. And is there anything that
we didn't cover that you think we should? No, just that I hope that the folks that are accustomed
to listening to you and other people, if I said something wrong, let's get it right. If I said
something that is disagreeable, yeah, fine. But let's engage in civil disagreement. And yeah,
that's it. And I'm being a little duplicitous. But I hope in a couple of years, we get a chance to
reconnect perhaps and be interested in seeing where your world
drifts and just to keep you posted on what's happening on my end of earth. So thank you so
much. Likewise, Sheldon. And I hope you continue to do more of these podcasts. I really think that
we need to amplify your signal as much as possible. With that said, sleep tight, folks.
