One of the hottest topics right now that I want to talk to you about was this new earth
shattering technology with these plasmoids and this plasma energy that you are working
on with Malcolm Bendol. Everyone really got like tipped off about this when you did that
episode with Joe when you and Graham were on Joe, right? And then you can explain it better
than I can. What happened with that? Yeah, well the subject of, you know, we're talking about
ancient civilizations and did they have potentially an energy source that they were utilizing?
And that's always been a fair question, the one that's been in my mind for many years.
And I had mentioned a few things to Graham that I had, you know, had some conversations with a
scientist that had been working on developing energy, an energy system based on plasma,
plasma energy, which is the fourth state of matter. And at the time I'm thinking, you know,
what I've heard and seen so far sounds promising, but I'm, you know, I'm not qualified to have an
opinion definitively on whether or not it's valid and viable. So I was very tentative at the time,
and I knew, I knew at the time that there was going to be some testing in the pipeline that
was going to determine whether or not this technology had merit. So I kind of was tentative,
I, you know, I was not too open about it, but excuse me, but I did disclose some information,
maybe more than I should have at the time, in terms of the specifics where his lab was and all
of this. So as a result of that, it kind of led to one thing kind of led to another, and
he actually came to America to meet up and who Malcolm Malcolm. So we met and we spent
a considerable amount of time where he was tutoring me in the science and the technology.
And the reason I had originally connected with him was because, you know, in this work I had
done in sacred geometry, he had seen some of that that had been posted by my friend Brad Young,
from pod recordings of lectures I had given 15 or 20 years ago. And he'd seen some of that
and saw that the geometry I was talking about had direct relevance to the science and the
technology of plasmas. So because of that, he reached out to me and this, we're going back
about eight years now. So we had regular conversations over a couple, two, three times a year where he
was giving me updates. And then, you know, at the end of that is kind of, so that was sort of what
led up to the comments on the remarks on Joe Rogans. Now, in the interim, I had had an opportunity
to talk to an Australian author by the name of Roland Perry, who is one of Australia's leading
authors and investigative reporters. So Malcolm said I should read a book he had written that was
a fiction book, but a lot of it was actually drawn from Roland's investigations of Malcolm.
So, and it turned out that Roland Perry and Malcolm were friends because Roland had spent four years
investigating Malcolm and his claims and looking at some of this stuff that had come up in the
90s and early 2000s, where he was in basically, well, because his background was geochemistry
and he was an oil prospector by profession who was exploring alternative energies,
like going back to, you know, stuff like the kind of stuff that you would trace back to people like
Nicola Tesla and Victor Schauburger and others. There's a whole succession of these inventors
throughout the 20th century. And even into the 21st century, one of the most recent was
Ken Shoulders, who was doing a lot of research into plasma energy and how plasma energy might
be used as an energy source. So I was starting to dive into more into the Tesla stuff and Victor
Schauburger and some of these other Stanley Meyer and some of these others that had been doing this
kind of work. And it seemed like, yes, the more I learned, the more it seemed like, yeah, these
guys really were onto something, right? So that just made me have more confidence that Malcolm was,
if he's in that succession, in that line of research and he's building upon what they've done,
that gave me a sense that there's, that maybe it's not as incredible as it may at first seem.
Okay, so Roland Perry called me from Australia and I had about a hour-long conversation with
me. He sent me a copy of a signed book. And in this conversation, he basically
said, yes, I spent, you know, four years investigating Malcolm and essentially what happened was,
you know, he'd discovered an oil deposit and one of the big oil companies,
he had the licensing to drill and one of the big oil companies that had overstated their reserves
were getting in a lot of trouble because of that. And they saw that he would be an easy mark.
And they were coveting that particular oil deposit. And so what they did was they
began a whole campaign of bribery where they were bribing journalists and politicians,
primarily in Tasmania, which is where the oil deposit was discovered. And as a result of that,
there was a whole smear campaign launched against him to discredit him with the objective in mind
of painting him as a nut job and scaring away investors, right? Because he was wanting to
try to raise money to do the drilling. And he had several investors on board. Well, this whole
thing turned into this big kind of a scandal, you know, politics, conspiracy theories, all of this.
And finally, what happened was, this oil company got caught. They got exposed and the
board of directors resigned. Do we know what oil company it was?
Yes, we do. Can we say it? I would prefer not to. But I could. I just don't feel like
drawing any extra attention. But if people out there want to do some digging, they'll find out
what it is, which company it was, a very well known oil company. And the entire board of directors
resigned in 2003. But Malcolm was so basically discouraged and disappointed and disgusted over
the whole thing and that dealing with the politics that he decided that rather than going forward
and try to push forward on this, on the drilling, he was just going to go back to what he had been
doing in his free time for nearly 40 years, which was exploring alternative energies literally
since he was like in high school is when he started it. So he spent seven years isolated,
writing up his notes and building some prototypes. And then these prototypes were tested.
And the principles turned out to be valid. The prototypes did what they were predicted to do.
And since then, now, since he came to America, and we met one of the things we did, and I
have it right here, we did a put together 243 slide slide show that goes into all of the
principles, which I'm still still working on comprehending, because there's there's a fair
amount to it. You know, I mean, it's just like one of the things I kind of compare to us, maybe if
we go back 120 years in the advent of alternating current electricity, you know, some of the basic
applications can be relatively simple, and you don't need to necessarily know all of the,
all of the physics behind it, right, to be able to to use it. You can, for example,
rebuild the engine of a car without necessarily knowing all of the physics of an internal combustion
engine, right. So but so where it was at was, you know, after the after the Rogan appearance,
Joe asked me to come back. Well, so in the interim, that's what I said, Malcolm came over here,
and he was here. And we had set a date for me to be on the show. And under I guess the day before,
whatever, we drove from Georgia out to Austin, Texas, myself, Brad Young, George Howard, who,
you know, has been one of the key researchers in the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis. And he's the,
he runs the Cosmic Tusk website, and he was the one who organized the Cosmic Summit.
Oh, wow. That was same, same. So George went with us, Malcolm came with, because he was here,
and I obviously was not going to just leave him sitting in the hotel room. So I invited him to
come with I knew he wanted to come with. And then Stephen Tuggle, who's kind of my assistant,
been helping me out with stuff. So I think there was what five of us guys, we drove out there,
went to Austin, and then I go to be on Rogan show the next day. And I called him up and I said,
Joe, it just so happened, you want to talk about this energy? Well, it just so happens that the
inventors here with me, I could bring him on. And he could probably explain and elucidate some of
these stuff better than I could, because I'm still kind of a, I'm very much a novice at this stage
of my understanding. So he said, sure, bring them on. Okay, so fast forward an hour or two, we get
there, we go into the studio and Jamie, Joe's producer has looked up and found some of this stuff.
You know, part of the smear campaign. And had plunked that down on Joe's desk.
So basically what happened was the substance of the interview went from talking about the
science and the technology of plasmoid energy and this utilization into all of the conspiracy
theories and politics and scandal and all of that. And as it proceeded, I'm constantly trying to steer
the conversation back to the science, but Joe was kind of in attack mode.
From the start, he started questioning about this stuff.
Yes. Which, and I don't blame him a bit. I mean, you know, it kind of came as a kind of a surprise.
I knew this, I'd seen enough of this stuff. And you know, when I had my conversation with
Roland Perry, we talked about it, we discussed it, he explained the whole backstory and all of that.
And you know, Malcolm is an eccentric genius. Just like Ben was saying in our conversation,
Ben Van Kirkwick was saying, you know, talking about a lot of these guys, you know, if you start
digging into their personal lives, you're going to find, look at this Nikola Tesla.
You know, he was very anti-social and you could probably dig up and, you know, let's say we're
going to try to discredit Tesla's work by attacking Tesla the man. And you got to be able to separate
that, the two. And so by the end of the interview, as it's proceeding, I'm getting more and more
frustrated because we're not talking about the science. And I've got these great slideshow
that I put together and I keep trying to pull the attention back, but then it would go right back
in, Joe would bring something up and, you know, and Malcolm got defensive. And so by the end of it,
I'm just like, okay. And then plus in the process, you know, I knew that there was some
testing in the pipeline that was going to be basically kept under wraps until the results of
the testing. It was not going to be made public until the testing was complete. Some of that
stuff kind of came out in the heat of the exchange, which wasn't supposed to come out.
And I'm thinking too, you know, at the same time, you know, well, the way this is played out,
we didn't get into really a deep dive into the technology at all, hardly. And so I'm thinking,
ah, you know, this is, this is going to be crazy if this goes out. Just crazy.
Did he ever come around at any point during the conversation and sort of calm down and actually?
Well, yeah, a couple of times when, you know, Malcolm made some claims about things that happened
and Jamie is over there, blah, blah, blah, pulling it up. And there it comes right up,
just exactly as Malcolm said. So there was a couple of points where, yeah, it wavered and,
oh, well, you know, there was a couple of points there where Joe was like, wow,
where he was actually able to see some of the stuff, but it just, the way it played out.
So after the interview was over, we're packing up to leave and Joe calls me aside and says,
would it be okay with you if, if we didn't air this right away so I could vet it? And I said,
yeah, absolutely sure. Don't, don't air it until we've had a chance to go through this. And I did
mention at that point, you know, like there's going to be over the next few months or three to
six months, there's going to be some testing going on independently. And why don't we wait and see
what the results of those tests are. And so a lot of that testing has been going on over the summer,
over this summer. And so, so we have some test results in hand. And the test results are coming
out pretty, pretty unanimous that the technology does what, what has been claimed for it. It reduces
the pollution by an enormous amount for any, any engine that's based upon fossil fuel based in this,
you know, diesel, regular gasoline, propane, natural gas, kerosene. And we'll get into some of that.
And again, I'm, I'm still at this point, like several of the physicists now that have witnessed
the technology. In operation, one of them, George Lush, who did the annealing, he's a contractor
with aerospace industry at NASA, very highly credentialed, highly credible individual third
generation in this tech in the annealing technology, which is, you know, the preparation of the metals,
you have to prepare metals, you know, if you're going to launch a rocket ship, you have to make
sure that that metal is, is prepared properly. Right. Right. So like he said, and he kind of
captured the, the response of a number of people that have looked into it as like, okay, I'm not
exactly sure what's going on here. But it works. I've seen it work, you know, and so he's not the
only one. And so like I said, there's been testing going on over the summer, they, one of the most
in June and July, they, they built the first industrial scale application of the technology.
And they retrofitted a 400 kilowatt generator at a power plant just outside of London.
Oh, wow. And we're testing it there. And I have the test results, you know.
Is there any speculation and or evidence that some of this technology could have been what was
used in ancient times to build some of these megastructures, like the pyramids or anything
like that? It's, I think it's very possible. And that was why I, that was kind of because
how I initially made those remarks on Rogan's show with Graham there's because that was the,
that was the subject that came up in the, in the conversation. And so
I kind of dropped that and, you know, it's been crazy ever since. And of course,
you know, I was, I put out a few places that, you know, I was just kind of in a holding pattern
until some of the further tests. Now, at this point, some testing has already gone down.
Right. And there were videos, I'd seen the videos I talked to. Well, in fact, I went to a meeting
in Arkansas about a year ago. And I met some of the key people that were coming together
who saw the commercial opportunities of this. And one of them is one of the, these individuals
bankrolled the building of the prototypes and the testing fees and all of that kind of stuff.
Yeah. Didn't you say there was a big car manufacturer somewhere and like Asia?
Well, yeah. There are several car manufacturers that are, that are interested. I mean,
nobody has, you know, signed on the dotted line yet, but they're again,
they were waiting to see what the results of the tests were going to be. Got it. Okay. Now,
a few weeks ago in Albuquerque, New Mexico was the annual Tesla tech conference where all of these
people interested in Tesla's technology and interrelated things all come together every year
to compare notes and see who's doing what. Malcolm and George Howard went out there. Mike
Robertson, who is the CEO of How Tube, went down and you had three or four different people
independently videoing and documenting the whole thing where they took a,
like, I think it was around a 40 kilowatt, I mean, about 4,000 watt generator and they retrofitted it
with the technology in front of the audience. And they tested, they had, you know,
independent people coming in. One was from, you know, I mean, from high level. I mean, Los Alamos
and. Oh, wow. Yeah. They're with mass, but not, you know, somebody, one of the scientists that
came there, I don't remember who he was affiliated with, but he brought a mass spectrometer.
Now, not in the official capacity. Los Alamos was not involved in the official capacity,
but people who had worked on that level is what I'm saying. So they came in and you had
people bringing in your own gas analyzers to analyze the affluence coming out of the exhaust
of the generator. And they had to determine, in other words, so they have the technology
hooked up, you can turn it on, you can turn it off. And you start the generator and then you
take a reading, right? Now in the tests that are going on currently as we speak,
in a laboratory, I can't say which laboratory yet, I will be able to, hopefully in the near
future, but they've got two generators, they've got a control generator and one that they've
hooked up with the technology so they can run both simultaneously. And again, it's bearing out.
It's showing that the technology does what it's supposed to do.
What is it specifically about this technology that makes you think it could have been used
thousands of years ago? Well, first of all, once you begin to understand what the plasma is and
plasmoids, the geometry link, I think for me was the thing that really brought home that possibility.
Because, again, it's complicated, I don't know where to really even start, because part of the
problem is, again, my level of understanding of the technology is still, you know, it's still
in its infancy. Have me back in six months from now and I will be able to talk more about it because
I have been taking a deep dive and because of the people I've met recently that are also
highly qualified in the scientific world who are now taking their first look at it,
we're kind of all simultaneously kind of like signed up for this course in plasma technology.
So we're sharing and comparing notes as we go forward.
Malcolm explained how this technology, he built it on the back of your sacred geometry that you
discovered. Well, he says that I built the foundation and he built the house on top of
it is how he puts it. I think he's giving me more credit than I do, but apparently he found something
of considerable value in what I had done because it all comes down to geometry. The control,
see, the plasmoids have an affinity for certain geometries and they are self-organizing,
they will cohere into an organized system. Now, once they go from, let's just go into a little
background. If you've got four states of matter, solid, liquid, gas, and plasma, plasma is the most
ubiquitous energy throughout the universe. It's probably 90% of what actually matter,
all matter in the universe, right, is mostly plasma. The sun is plasma, lightning is plasma,
aurora borealis, the northern lights, that's plasma. Okay, so all of these things, these are
manifestations of plasma and plasmas are being used now industrially for a number of purposes,
which I'm still learning about. But the question is, is could ancient cultures have known about it?
And I think the answer is yes, I think they could have, but were they? And I would say,
I think it's very possible that they could have been. Why? Well, just like electricity
is such a ubiquitous phenomena and, you know, 150 years ago, consider what we knew about
electricity 150 years ago compared to what we're doing now and its applications, right?
And you look at the whole 20th century, you've got, is basically taking the basic principles of
electricity, electromagnetism, and learning how to develop technologies from that, right? So,
I mean, think about all the things that we're doing with electricity right here and right now,
right? Okay, so electrical phenomena, electromagnetic phenomena would be a natural
thing for any evolving civilization to utilize, to exploit. Well, in plasma, you've got, going back,
solid, you've got strongly bound electrons and neutrons. And if you add energy to the system,
like if you add energy in the form of heat to a solid, and every solid will have a different
melting point, but if you add energy, the solid will melt. Okay, so now it becomes a liquid,
the electrons and neutrons are still bound, but there's much greater degrees of freedom,
you know? And that's why a liquid will flow and, you know, a solid, if we set a solid down,
it doesn't change its shape because of how strongly the electrons and neutrons are bound.
Okay, but a liquid, like what's in this can, the liquid is taking the shape of the can.
If I have anything else, if I pour it into that cup there, it's going to take the shape of the cup,
right? Now, if you add more energy to it, the bonds between the electrons and neutrons weaken
even more. And now you're in a gas phase, right? So you now have greater degrees of freedom. However,
there's still a connection, they're still bound, even though it's a weak bind, weak bonding,
they're still bound. Add more energy and now you have a complete disassociation between electron
and neutrons and our ions and they're freely flowing. The interesting thing about a plasma is
it can be electromagnetically conductive and it has an affinity for certain geometries.
And that's the key, see? And the one form that it's most drawn to is that of a torus,
you know, a kind of a donor shape. So when the electrons and the neutrons and the ions,
when they're in the form of plasma, they're completely unbound. Yes. Not connected at all.
Not connected at all. Can you see them? Well, you can see lightning, right? Well,
yeah, you can see lightning, absolutely. Yeah, you can see ball lightning,
right? Controversial, but it has been proven to exist. Ball lightning is plasma. It's a
self-cohered, self-organized system of plasma. So the key is though, with the technology here,
is being able to utilize the plasma. And when it becomes self-organized into a coherent system,
that's when it's called a plasmoid. See, rather than just a free ocean of electrons and ions,
without a structure. Because once it becomes cohered, self-organized into
a torus, it can now be used as a source of energy. Now, I don't know if I've gotten every detail
of this explanation exactly correct, but that's kind of the basic concept. Got it.
And so what Malcolm learned how to do, number one, he learned how to
create a plasma at lower energies than nor, by mixing air and water together,
where the air had been pre-ionized by being exposed to ultraviolet light, roughly 100 micron
wavelengths, which is the same wavelength of light that's emitted when the plasmoids are created.
Now, the plasmoids are being created in, out of water, not air, but water, by producing bubbles.
Bubbles that are large bubbles, you can see, but very small micro-bubbles that you can't see,
they're microscopic bubbles. The microscopic bubbles were a necessity because only the
microscopic bubbles are perfectly spherical, symmetrical and spherical. So what happens is,
and I can play a video of it here in a minute, what we call the bubbler, and it's the plasmoid
generator. And what this does is it takes this pre-ionized air and it mixes it with water and it
injects it into the bubbler, and there the bubbler is subjected to alternating vacuum and compression,
the vacuum creates the bubbles, the compression causes the collapse of the bubbles, and these
are called cavitation bubbles. And there is a history, if anybody listening wants to learn
more, look up cavitation bubbles. Okay. Okay, so when the vacuum is applied, the cavitation bubbles
picture a sphere that's rotating that has an axis, right? Now imagine that you take that sphere and
you collapse it along that axis so that it becomes this donor shape, and imagine you're in a cross
section, it actually will look as it's, what it's doing is it's assuming the shape of an infinity
symbol, right? And so the, what do we got there? Yeah, there we go, right there, there we go, look.
And so these are, so this representation would be what all of the little microscopic bubbles are
in the, in the water. Yes, except the difference is what this is showing is a collapse from along
one axis, and then you've got this vortex, you see on the far right, you've got this vortex coming
down. Yeah. What's happening in this system is that the collapse is coming from both the north
and the south pole, and meeting at the equatorial plane. Okay. So now you can see there you got this,
this vortex that's coming down almost like you see it looks like almost like a tornado hanging
down. Yep. Okay, now picture, but you've got that coming from both, both poles. From the bottom and
the top. Bottom and the top, and they're meeting at the equatorial plane. And what's happening is that
the plasmas are accelerating down that vortex to high rates of speed, but in opposite directions.
So the northern hemisphere, it's counter, it's clockwise in the, in the southern hemisphere,
it's counterclockwise. And that's meeting at that zero point. And this is what is now being
referred to as the zero point energy, because here's where the energy is being harvested.
And what I should probably do, let's see here if I can.
Collapsed sphere. Yeah, so here we're looking at it from above. And if you follow the path here
of this thing, it's spiraling around down towards the center, it's spiraling into this
vortex, but the same thing is happening in the opposite direction from the southern hemisphere.
And then if you take cross sections of it, like this is a 16-fold division of that torus.
Wow. And so if you look at one of them, there's your infinity symbol that I was talking about.
Oh, wow. Which might be a first hint.
What's, what is the hint? It's football season, baby. And you know what time it is,
time to gamble all that hard-earned money on some sports. As a better, you demand perfection.
And that's where my bookie delivers. NFL, college football, and a brand new cash
out system give you the options to bet and win all season long. First two legs of your parley
already hit. You can cash it out early and place another bet or sweat it out and let it ride for
a chance at an even bigger payday. Join the my bookie family for an entire season filled with
daily odds boosts, same day parlays, and super contests. And this season, my bookie has a no
strings attached cash bonus that lets you deposit and withdraw quick. Use the promo code DJP on
a deposit of $50 or more and you can receive up to $200 cash instantly into your my bookie account.
Bet your deposit amount once and you're ready to withdraw at any time. Again, that's promo code DJP
to claim your cash deposit bonus. You can bet anything, anytime, anywhere, only with my bookie.
You've seen the infinity symbol. Of course. It looks like, like, like an eight fold. Well,
right. And then you've seen the yin yang symbol as well, right? Right.
Well, that kind of represents the, the, the universal opposites that come together because
in the infinity, I mean, in the, in the yin yang symbol,
we see it, we just look at it. It's a fixed image. But in reality, you, you have to imagine that the
whole, the whole system is spinning. It's dynamically in motion. See. Okay. Yeah. Interesting.
Okay. So now the other thing is, is that he realized that as this spiraling plasma electrons
and ions are spiraling down this vortex is that you're changing frequencies.
So it's vibration. They're changing the frequencies and the frequencies coincide
with the frequencies of the colors of the spectrum. So that's what you got right there.
Then the further, the next step was realizing that the elements could be arrayed along this
vortex. And you see the vortex is spinning down and in each of those frequencies correlates
correlates with one of the elements. Okay. Explain to me for like, I'm an idiot. How
do the frequencies correlate with the elements? Well, because every single thing in reality
vibrates. Everything vibrates. You have colors vibrate, sounds vibrate, everything. This can
vibrates, right? Everything vibrates according to certain frequencies in every element.
Has a different frequency. Has a different frequency. Yeah.
And so he discovered that those frequencies can be plotted along this spiraling vortex,
which is the pathway of the plasmas as they're spinning down towards the zero point.
And the frequency is based upon this particular, the triangle that you see right here.
Okay. We got matter, light and zero matter. Let's not try to get into that because
yeah, we're getting pretty esoteric. Yes, we are. Now, it is not necessary because like I know of,
like one of the people that I met in Arkansas, his son-in-law is a mechanic
and they sent him the specs and the components. He built the thing in his shop and tested it.
I've seen his video. Really? Yeah. It took him five hours to retrofit an internal combustion engine
and he sends back to his uncle. I mean, his father-in-law, he says, well, I don't know how
it worked, but I hooked it up and it worked. And he put the gas analyzer there in the exhaust pipe
and saw for himself what changed when he turned the technology on and then when he turned it off.
So, and I'm at that point where, okay, I've seen enough now and I've seen it myself work. I have
been in the lab and seen it work. I've stood right there while independent engineers and
scientists with their equipment were testing and so I watched myself and have seen it and I was
already convinced because I'd seen probably half a dozen videos because every time it's been tested,
there have been video recordings of it and I'd seen the videos from the Albuquerque at the
Tesla Tech conference and George Howard, who was a total skeptic, he was there and yeah,
he came away, oh, well, so there's a video of him getting down. You've got the, you're running a
generator without the technology and they had to move it outside because the fumes were so strong,
right? Coming out of the exhaust fumes were coming out of the exhaust pipe were so strong,
they had to move the thing outside onto the loading dock, right? They turned the technology on and
within about a minute, a couple of minutes, instead of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide,
nitrous oxide, methane and other hydrocarbons coming out, they've all gone down to just a small
percentage. Some of them we've even zeroed out and what's coming out is like 20% oxygen, optimum
atmospheric levels of oxygen that you would be breathing in a pristine, unpolluted natural
environment and that's what's coming out of the exhaust. This is 20% oxygen in here right now,
probably not that much inside here, but if you were out and as George Lush put it in a pristine
alpine meadow with unpolluted air and you're breathing that, that's what's coming out of the
exhaust pipe. Wow. George got down, George the skeptic got down and we were joking, still joking,
it's on video because all this is being live streamed now. So anybody who wanted to sign up
and or people all over the world watching this happen real time, okay, and he gets down and
we're joking about how George Howard was huffing the plasmoids. Yeah, yeah. Wow, man. Yeah, I mean
the skeptics have been having a field day. So what else do we got here? Here's, okay, so this,
this is the mechanic, the son-in-law that I just told you about. He just finished retrofitting a
generator in his shop. And, and I, you know, I watched the video of him saying, I don't know
how it works, but I just hooked it up and turned it on and it works. So I can see here, this is,
this is the bubbler right here. This is in this tube is where the plasmas are being generated.
And this is where the UV light, they're, they're pre-ionizing the air in this chamber. You can't
see the key of the whole system is the thunderstorm generator. The thunderstorm generator. The
thunderstorm generator, yes. That's what they call it. So those doughnut shapes are being created
inside that cylinder, that bubbler. Yes, that's right. And is there just one
toroid? So it's called toroid, the doughnut shape. Torus. Tor, yeah, yeah. So is it only
one of those inside that bubbler? Oh no, there's billions of them. Billions of them. Oh, wow.
Yeah, billions of them. Now, this is a video. I don't know, can we play a video? Yeah, we can
play a video. Okay, let's see, let's see. Turn the volume down on your computer. Turn the volume
down on my computer. That's what you say. You don't, you don't have to, just play it. So you're
fine. Are you sure? Yeah. Okay. So this is Gary Ling. He's in London and he's been overseeing the,
the, the build out of the, of the big industrial. Now, this is, this is a couple of years ago where
they were still testing like backyard scale of things. So this is, he's got this in his backyard,
they built the thing, they've hooked it up to a Honda generator. And I'm going to fast forward
through some of it, but he gives a great explanation of what's going on. Let's see if I can. Okay,
so he's pointing the gas analyzer here. Okay. And they're going to hook up, they're going to
take the probe from the, the analyzer and they're going to put it through the exhaust pipe is, is
down here and they're going to feed it into the exhaust pipe. Okay. I imagine I think this is the
guy who was built, built it according to Malcolm specifications. Yeah. So he's now going to uncover,
so you see the generator there. And okay, so I'm going to pause it right here for a second.
Okay. So this is the ionizer. So they feed air into the top. It's subjected to UV light of a
frequency of about 100 microns. And then that's comes down here in this pipe. And then it's mixed
with water and that comes in and here's the bubblers where the cavitation bubbles are created. And
when those billions of cavitation bubbles collapse, they emit a light, they emit frequency
of UV light, ultraviolet light in the same, at the same frequency as the pre-ionizer chamber.
And it was this pre-ionizer chamber that is the, the key to being able to generate the plasmas at
lower energies than it would normally take to cause that disassociation between electrons
and neutrons. Okay. I don't fully understand exactly how it works. Again, get me back on six
months and I should be able to be a little bit more, you know, more explanatory. So it's UV. That's,
that's where the energy is coming from, the UV light. The UV light, I wouldn't say that's where
the energy is coming from, but the UV does, is emitted when those cavitation bubbles collapse.
Okay. Now that UV light and perhaps, yeah, again, I'm, my understanding of this is,
is still in its infancy. Over here, this, this thing right here is where the water intake,
the water is fed in here and it goes down and that water comes up here into the bubbler. And then
the bubbler captures those plasmoids and feeds them into the thunderstorm generator, which you
can't see here. But as we go around, let's see, I'll fast forward here as he's coming around.
Here we go. He's, he's pointing out and he's explaining how the bubbler works.
And then he's coming around. Yes. So here he's talking, he says, this is the,
this is the, the center of the whole system. This is your thunderstorm generator right here.
Okay. And if people want to kind of get the basic principle of how the thunderstorm generator looks,
look up the rank, R-A-N-Q-U-E rank, hiltch vortex tube. The rank hiltch vortex tube.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe Steven can, yeah, Steve can pull it up. But actually,
I think I've got a slide of it here. So, so this is the heart of the system here is the
thunderstorm generator. And what it does is it separates, it takes room temperature here and
separates it into extremely hot and extremely cold and then brings them back together.
And in that, so you've got a stream of plasma that's really hot and a stream that's really cold.
So it's mimicking in a way a thunderstorm, which brings together a cold front and a hot front.
And you know, in a thunderstorm, it, now when you bring that together, what does it do?
It emits lightning, right? And lightning is plasma. So somehow what he's done is he's come
up with a system of mimicking the thunderstorm. And so let's see, let me just go ahead and jump
ahead here. I think they're going to, yeah, he's explaining the operation of the,
of the thunderstorm generator right there. Take a good look at it. It's a, it's a two,
these are actually, there's another sphere inside the sphere. There's two spheres on each end.
There's another sphere inside and then there's a pipe or a tube and it has another tube going
inside it. Okay. Okay. And okay. So here you can see the gas analyzer has been fed into the
exhaust right here. So what they're going to do is they're going to do a series of tests,
turning on the technology and turning it off and then watching what happens to the change in the,
in the emissions that are coming out. So there he's hooking it up. They're running the gas analyzer.
And let's see here. We don't have the volume. So I'm not sure exactly what part that this is Gary
Ling here. He's, this is actually his backyard where they've built this thing and he's, he's friends
with Malcolm and has known him for years. So I probably skipped over, but they've got.
So that, the exhaust coming out of that thing is 20% oxygen.
That could be 19, could be 20. The highest I've seen is 20.9%. So,
So is that, is that the, is that the main reason people would want to use this is to lower carbon
emissions and to decrease like pollution and things like that? Or are there any other benefits of
using this technology? One of the main reasons. Okay. Look at here. Let's see what we got happening
here. They're zooming in on the analyzer. Let's see. So he's turning the, let's see. What do we
got? Did he just turn the technology on? Oh, he just turned the technology off. So you can see
carbon, but this is carbon monoxide right here. CO. Let me back up just a little bit.
Let's see. Did he, let's go in. Let's see. Okay. Yeah. So you can see there. Okay. There you are.
That's what the technology on carbon emissions was zero zero. Let's see. So carbon monoxide is
the top reading and hydrocarbons is the, let's see. So this is percent of carbon monoxide.
This is the parts per million of hydrocarbons in general. Okay. So now they will turn the technology
back off and then we'll see what happens as soon as he turns the technology. This guy's a terrible
cameraman. Well, yeah. But yes, that's why we had more better, we had professionals out at the
Tesla tech. Come on here. Let's just fast forward a little bit here. Okay. So now he's presumably
going to turn it off. It's been a couple of months since I've watched this. Okay. He just turned it
off. And the generator is running. So let's see what's going to happen there now. Okay. So now you
can see what happened. He's turning. Look, here you can see the carbon monoxide percentage
going up hydrocarbons parts per million or no. Okay. So, so he's turned it on. Now he's turned
it off. I mean, I'm sorry. So now he's turned the technology back. I guess I skipped forward a
little bit too much. So now he's turned the technology back on. So what we're seeing is that
those numbers are going down. You see that? Okay. See it.
What's that say 10.4?
Whoops.
Well, he's explaining it as it goes here. Let's see.
But let's not spend too much time on that. Okay. Let's here we here's the
cross section of the spheres. So this is okay. So this is a diagram of what's going on inside
the thunderstorm generator. Yes. Inside of those those spheres. Exhaust gases are introduced at
an angle. First expand anti-clockwise and then contract clockwise as they pass through the cavity
between two spheres. This creates opposing tornadoes within both the outer and inner spheres.
So again, this is this is available. People can download this and go through it themselves
and several people are now. Uh huh. This is the one I was talking about. This is your
rank Hiltz vortex tube. Okay. Using compressed air supply with a room temperature of plus 23
degrees centigrade. Let's see. What does that convert to to Fahrenheit 73? Thanks. Thanks,
Steve. So right, right. Almost room temperature. All right. So check this out now. Okay. So he
introduced it at almost room temperature. You said 73. Yep. Okay. So what is happening? There's no
moving parts in this thing. It simply is based upon vortex geometry, these whirling vortexes. So
what comes in, this is the chamber where pressurized gas is injected tangentially
into a swirl chamber. So this is the swirl chamber in a vortex tube. In the thunderstorm
generator, the spheres are the swirl chambers. So that, okay. So the first part it gets introduced
to is the sphere and that's that begins the swirl effect. Yes. Of the gas, of the air. Yes. Okay.
Argon gas. Argon gas. And then it begins to travel through the tubes. And there's two tubes. There's
an inner tube and an outer tube. The inner tube looks like cold air and the outer tube looks like
hot air. Yes. And look at the cold air is coming out at minus 15 with the minimum recorded temperature
of minus 50. Steve, what does minus 50 convert to Fahrenheit? So negative 58 degrees below zero
Fahrenheit is coming out one end. At the other end, the maximum recorded temperature in the
vortex tube is 200 degrees centigrade. Which is 392 Fahrenheit. So we go from a high of 392
to a low of what did you say, 50 some below zero. So 58. So we're talking well over 400 degrees
separation in this tube with no moving parts. And in reading up on it, one of the things that comes
up on is that scientists are saying, well, we don't know how exactly how it works, but it works
and it's being used throughout the industry. You know, where it's used in nuclear reactors,
it's used in air conditioning technology. It's got multiple applications, these vortex tubes.
Nobody really knows how it works. Really? Yeah. These same vortex tubes are used in
air conditioning units? Yes. Well, the air conditioning industry uses them.
And now I want you to look down on what's happening on this end. Right. There's a cone.
There's a cone right here. And it's this cone that is pushing this high temperature. You see,
as it's coming, look at, see what's happening is it's traveling down this tube, it's getting hotter
and hotter and hotter. And it's ejected, like see, due to the conical nozzle at the end of the tube,
only the outer shell of the compressed gas is allowed to escape at that end.
Got it. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah. The remainder is forced to return in an inner vortex. And you
can see this. So here it's returning. It's coming back and it's cooling as it's coming back up the
tube, a reduced diameter within the outer vortex, and it is now being emitted at the other end.
Okay. That's pretty easy to understand. Yeah. But how it works, I don't know.
Yeah, where does the hot air go and where does the cold air go? Well, it just goes out.
That's the exhaust? Yeah. Now, I guess, you know, say in air conditioning applications,
I guess you would capture that cold air or cooling nuclear reactors. There's some
adaptation of this type of technology. And again, I haven't researched this in depth. So give me
another few months. Okay. So yeah, here's another version. Oh, this is a great diagram. Okay. Yeah.
Compressed air normally 80 to 100 PSIG, which is 6.9 bar is ejected tangentially. So here comes your
air supply. And up to a million RPMs. Yeah. The air steam revolves towards the hot end,
whereas some escapes through the control valve, the remaining air still spinning is forced back
through the center of this outer vortex. The inner stream gives off kinetic energy in the...
Huh. Sorry about that. But again, you can find this online. Okay. And anybody who's watching this,
and I would encourage people to do your own research. And really what we're trying to do
is sort of get a group of people who are students of this who were exploring it, testing it,
comparing notes, and so on. Okay.
There's a lot of stuff we'll skip over here. This is... Yeah. So what is that big diagram above that?
These are all the elements. This is where it gets interesting. This is the plasmoid unification
model. Okay. And again, this is... Basically, this integrates all sounds, all colors, all elements.
All of the sacred numbers are in this. Right. Astronomical numbers. You look up here in the
right, the sun, 864,000. And people can go through this and work this. Now, I've had some posters,
full big size posters printed up of this that I would sell to anybody who wanted one.
If somebody wants to really get in and study this, it really looks cool up on the wall. But
there's so much information in here. If anybody wants to dive into this...
What's the diagram on the bottom corner? There's a sun, the earth, and the moon.
Down here, yeah. Yeah. Showing the numbers. The sun is 864,000 miles. And he's showing how those
numbers that measure the sun, the earth, and the moon correlate to these various frequencies.
Oh, wow. So, in one of our previous discussion with Ben, we did touch upon some of this. Right.
You know. So, here's your basic diagram. Okay. Air inlet, your pre-ionization chamber,
which is fed now into the plasmoid generator. Then that's fed into the thunderstorm generator,
which then is fed through the carburetor into the generator. It captures the exhaust output from
the manifold and feeds it right back into the thunderstorm generator. So, does this replace
the need for fossil fuels? You use fossil fuels only to get the initial temperatures to create
the plasmas. And then, once you've done that, it's self-perpetuating. But it requires something to
get the energy up. So, the models now use fossil fuel only in the initial. But once
the requisite temperatures have been reached and you've generated the plasmas, now it is...
And I suppose, you know, at some point, I don't know, it would run down. But it can run. I mean,
in the... As long as the equipment holds up. So, one of the things that's now being done,
like with George Lush, is they're now going to go into really high-performance metals.
So, I think the lifespan of this process is going to be dependent upon the lifespan
of the materials out of which the thing is made, particularly the thunderstorm.
So, in the interview, which I can play... I mean, I have it here. We can play the interview with him,
where he's talking about now, you know, he's got the industry contact. So, they're going to be
going into, like, high-performance materials, the kind of materials you would be using in the aerospace
industry to build a new generation of thunderstorm generators. So, the pre-ionization chamber,
the function of the chamber is to pre-ionize incoming air to the engine. Air is drawn into
the chamber by a vacuum emanating from the engine that is to be pretreated before it enters the
plasmoid generator. That's the bubbler. It is pretreated by exposing the air to ultraviolet
light at a specific frequency of 100 microns. This frequency is determined by the frequency of
ultraviolet light emitted from collapsing bubbles within our plasmoid generator. The bubbles collapse
violently as they are exposed sequentially to both vacuum and pressure pulses, resulting from the
movement of pistons within the combustion chamber of the engine or the generator. This has the
effect of making the gases... This pre-ionization has the effect of making the gases more reactive
by ionizing a small percentage of each gas present in the air, whether nitrogen, oxygen, or argon.
And then this all pumps back into the carburetor of the mode of the engine?
Yeah. Well, yes. And then it somehow keeps cycling through the engine?
It keeps cycling and recycling. So everything that's coming out in terms of, okay, so oxygen is coming
out because that's basically... It's air, pure air coming out because all the other stuff, the
hydrocarbons, the carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, that's all being recaptured and
broken down in a sort of a low-energy atomic reaction is what it's called. They're called.
Okay, got it. And so here, you know, here's the diagram, the schematics of the pre-ionization
chamber. And so again, all of this is open source, so people can go on and, you know, I mean, yeah,
you can go ahead and blast all you want about hoaxes and frauds and all of that. But while you're
doing that or while these people are doing that, others are actually now building these, using
these, I know at least one guy in Australia, a young fella, a very smart young fella who is
building his own machine by using the schematics. And we should soon be hearing from him what his
results are. Here's again, the cross-section, the schematic of the bubbler and all the parts are
that you would need to build one. All right, here's all the part numbers
that you need to put the thing together. And the team that's come together around this is
totally open to helping, you know, backyard mechanics and home experimenters who want to try
to build the small scale of this technology. Okay, yeah. So it's been proven, it's been done. People
have, some of these backyard engineers have done it, they've obviously tested it. Well, the first one
we saw. Yeah, we just watched that. So what are the ultimate implications of this technology?
It will massively increase the efficiency of any engine or generator. Anything that runs on
fossil fuels will be, the efficiency will be massively, and this is one of the things that's
now been demonstrated repeatedly, it massively increases the efficiency. And like George Lustre
says, once we have cars that are retrofitted with this, he put it, he said like instead of cars,
you know, driving down the city streets, exhausting pollution, they'll be like
mobile trees, because that's what trees do. They take in the carbon dioxide and they put out
oxygen. And then that oxygen, like if in a nice pristine forest where you've got healthy forests
with trees, I mean, it's 1920, 21% oxygen. It's, yeah. Combustion engine is only 33% efficient,
I think. I think that's, yeah, but like maximum, maybe. Yeah. So, so yeah, all of this will be,
is available for people to study. So, I would say, you know, good, be skeptical, be skeptical,
but be open-minded and do your homework and decide for yourself. And here, again, here's your,
you can see this, the swirling. It's just like, it's very much the, the Hiltz vortex tube. Okay.
Except in the Hiltz vortex tube, the cold air is in a confined stream within the, the hot air,
right? Correct. Okay. In the thunderstorm generator, you actually have a pipe, a tube, inside another
tube. Okay. And here's, this is your swirl chamber right here. Now, what is, what are these depictions
that Malcolm was showing on the, the descriptive series he did on your website,
where he was basically showing this giant sort of like pine cone shaped thing. It was metal,
and it was like a, it looked like a giant metal pine cone. Oh, I think that was one of the turbines.
It was huge. It looked huge, at least in the video. Was it this thing here?
Yes, that thing up there. Yeah. What's that called? That's called the Vajra Implosive Turbine.
The Vajra Implosive Turbine. The Vajra is, what the hell is that? I was afraid you were gonna ask me.
This episode is brought to you by Bluetooth. Let's talk about sex. Fellas. Do you remember
the days when you were always ready to go? Now you can increase your performance and get that
extra confidence boost in bed. Listen up. Bluetooth.com.
Bluetooth is a unique online service that delivers the same active ingredients as Viagra and
Cialis, except it comes in a chewable tablet and it's only a fraction of the cost. The beautiful
thing is you can take them anytime, day or night, so you can plan ahead and always be ready when
that special opportunity arises. The process is super simple. Just sign up at Bluetooth.com,
consult with one of their licensed medical providers, and once you're approved,
you'll receive your prescription within days. And the best part is it's all done online,
so no visits to doctor's offices, no awkward conversations and no waiting in line at the
pharmacy. Bluetooth's tablets are made right here in the USA and they're prepared and shipped
directly to your door in a discrete package. Of course, first impressions are very important,
but no one ever talks about the lasting impressions. Women say there's nothing sexier than confidence
and Bluetooth will give you the confidence where it counts. Try Bluetooth for free by using the
promo code concrete at checkout. It's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E and all you got to pay is $5 shipping. That's
Bluetooth.com using the promo code concrete at checkout to get your first month free. Visit
Bluetooth.com for more important details and safety information, and we thank Bluetooth for
sponsoring this episode. Back to the show. Well, Viagra was Indra's weapon or Indra's, yeah.
Who? Indra. Who's Indra? He's one of the Hindu gods. Maybe Steve would look Indra up for us and
report back to us. Yes. Indra. Indra. I-N-D-R-A. Okay. The king of divas. The king of divas.
So we can look at it. So Indra wielded the Vajra that was the source of his power. When was Indra
around? Well, I mean, he's mythical, so I... Do we have any ideas based on texts or... Well,
this is our Vedic texts. Oh, got it. Okay. Indra is the king of the divas, God-like deities,
and Svarga, heaven in Hinduism. He's associated with the sky, lightning, weather,
thunderstorms, rains, river flows, and war. Indra's powers are similar to other Indo-European
deities such as Jupiter, Perun, Pekunas, Zalmaksas, Taranis, Zeus, and Thor, part of the greater
Proto-Indo-European mythology. Okay. There's a picture of Indra riding on a elephant with two
holding his or her arms out, holding... Is that two of those Vajras? They look like the Vajras.
Yeah, Steve, look up Vajra, V-A-S-J-R-A.
And so Zeus also wielded... Whoa, what are these? The Vajra.
Or you might say an ancient Hindu thunderstorm generator.
The Vajra Thunderbolt is a legendary and ritualistic weapon symbolizing the properties of a diamond
and a thunderbolt. The Vajra is a type of club with a ribbed spherical head. The ribs may meet
in a ball-shaped top, or they may be separate and end in sharp points with which to stab. The Vajra
is a weapon of Indra, the Vedic king of the divas and heaven. It is used symbolically by the
Darmic traditions of Hinduism, Buddhism, Johnism, often to represent firmness of spirit and spiritual
power. Okay. It's a weapon. It's a thunderbolt. Well, they call it a weapon, yes. But note again
that Indra is the god of lightning and thunderstorms. That might be a clue right there. The Vajra, now
look at the Vajra, it says here... So did Malcolm call this thing the Vajra to... To commemorate.
To commemorate. So a ribbed spherical head. A ribbed spherical head, yeah. The ribs may meet
in a ball-shaped top. Picture the thunderstorm generator you just saw with the ball-shaped top.
Mm-hmm. When was this stuff written? When was it... Well, the Vedas are way old.
Like how old? Some of the oldest writings, 5,000 years old, probably.
5,000 years old. Yeah. Symbol of nature, symbol for nature of reality, or sunyata, indicating the
endless creativity, potency, and skillful activity. The Vajra and Bell are used in many
rites by the Lama, or any Vajranaya practitioner of Sadhana. The Vajra is a male polysemic symbol
that represents many things for the Tantrica. The Vajra is represented... Okay, okay. So this is an
ancient tool. Mm-hmm. I like that better than the weapon, an ancient tool. Mm-hmm. But it was a source
of power. Right. For Indra. Right. As well as Zeus, because Zeus' thunderbolt was a variation of the
Vajra. It's also found throughout the Tibetan gods. So why don't we continue on? Yeah. Okay, so here,
this is a... So this is a diesel retrofit. Mm-hmm. And here you can... Now,
at this point, you're going to be recognizing the components. Right. There's your water intake,
there's your pre-ionization chamber, there's your plasmoid generator, and there's your
thunderstorm generator. Oh, wow. And a little close up here, there's two versions, two variations.
So they're still experimenting with the optimum shape and geometry of the thunderstorm generators.
But interestingly, I called attention when people see the interview coming up with
the one we did yesterday with Ben. Yep. He brings up showing those concentric circles.
Yes. And I called attention to that. Measuring the vases. Measuring the vases, yes. And you saw
there were four, three, two, one. Yep. Those are the optimum dimensions for the concentric spheres
of the thunderstorm generator. So this one is four, the next one inside is three. And here we're
getting up here now to the larger scale applications. Here you can see this is the thunderstorm
generator with one sphere and... Holy shit, that's massive. Yeah. So you've got the sphere here at
the end. And you've got, here's the inner tube, the smaller tube that's going up the middle of the
outer tube. So it's, this is operating again, like the vortex generator. So they've got your
engine analyzers here, your electronic control panel, there's your exhaust analyzer. So it's
printing out what the results are. So this is a retrofit as it says to a caterpillar generator.
And this is showing, you know, the, so you've got a 24-inch stainless steel sphere here and inside
that is an 18-inch sphere. So here's your, there's your bubbler. And this thing works. Oh yeah, this
is one of the tests right here. And you can see they, all the analysts, this has all been videoed,
witnesses monitoring this. I mean, so this was a, this generator was provided by Caterpillar,
the company. You've heard of them, right? Yeah. Yeah.
What happened here? Well, okay. Zero point black hole. So right here, what he's calling the event
horizon is where the plasmas are meeting and accumulating. And what happens is they start to
see each, each of the plasmas is of the, has like, almost like a mini black hole at its center
with this very powerful, implosive force, right? Now, if you assemble a bunch of them together,
what happens is those, those implosive zero points accumulate and act as a single organized system.
So the inner pipe, if you look at this inner pipe that's going in here, they ran it up. I believe
if I remember right, what they did was this one had three spheres and three pipes, but the intensity
was so great, they had to take the middle one out because what was happening is the plasmas
are embedding themselves into the crystal and metal of the pipes. And then somehow they're,
these zero points are self-cohering and creating this implosive force. And I'm, I'm very,
you know, I'm, I'm kind of grasping here at this. I've seen this on the videos, had it explained to
me, but I can't say that I fully understand what's going on here other than the fact that you have
these billions of plasmas, plasmoids forming this coherent implosive force. And then what happens is
that the pipe, this was, this was the inner pipe. This pipe here is this one. So, and that right here
is where that implosion occurred. Okay. So we're looking at a picture of this inner pipe and it's
broken in half. Well, it's, yes, and it's, it's, it's busted inwards. Inward, right. Inward. It's
an implosive force, not an explosive. Whoa. So take a good look at this geometry here. Now remember
the cone, how the cone separates the flows. Remember when I pointed out the cone to you in the vortex
tube? Yes. Right. Okay. So this is basically doing the same thing. So this is, this is one scheme for
right here. You can see the carbon dioxide, carbon dioxide. This shows the movement,
positive generation. And notice here, four, three, and two. These are the ratios. Inches.
Yes. In this case, inches. Okay. So the outer layer of the CO2, the chamber is four inches wide.
And the inner chamber with, what's going through the inner chamber? Is that cold water?
Argon gas. Argon gas. Okay. That's two inches wide. And then let's see, plus water in gas phase. So
water vapor is going into two inch one. In the two inch one. And it's coming out this and
it's a minus. Into the engine. That's where it goes into the engine. Yes.
I'm not going to try to explain all of this. That looks like some bicycle rims
with those, that pinecone vasra on the inside. It is bicycle rims.
And it looks like there's some sort of like purple aurora around the, that pinecone vasra.
Here? Yeah. Is that, am I seeing shit? Does it look like there's some sort of like purple,
like light around it? Yeah, I think you're hallucinating. Okay. This is actually looking
down one of those tubes that imploded. And it's interesting that it's trying to create a hexagonal
shape. Now, why did they implode? Because the accumulated plasmoids embedded in the metal had
this coherent zero point. Now, when I come back, I'll have a better explanation of what's
going on there. But, but, but see, here's the thing. All of this we're going to, as this proceeds
and the experiments are going on and different people are trying things, there's going to be an
ongoing dialogue amongst experimenters and inventors and technicians and mechanics and people that are
building these things and testing them and experimenting with them and trying to understand.
I mean, I mean, I heard, you know, PhD physicists go, okay, I see what's happening here. I don't
really fully understand what's going on. Really? Oh, yeah. So if, if, you know, somebody with a
PhD in physics is still trying to figure out what's going on, I'm a geologist and an architectural
designer. So, you know, don't expect me to, to give me a few more months at least. Right.
So, yeah, we're going to just speed through some of this.
Now, wasn't Malcolm saying something about in 1923, there was a patent for a Model T forward using
water? Yes, there was. And I don't know the background on that. But that's true. Yeah,
there was. In fact, several, I think. And this is, this is, okay, so this is a basic assembly here
that could be adapted to chimneys and capturing the affluence from chimneys. Now,
this is a simple testing mock up here, but it could certainly be done on a much more
sophisticated level. But this was just to test, to try to see what you, what was capable of attaching
this thing to a chimney, particularly with the, a coal chimney. Like for a coal stack?
Yes. At a power plant? Yes. And in fact, one of the companies in India that is now very interested
in the licensing of this is looking at this application, because they're building coal plants.
A Hartman Whistle is something else. Somebody can research if they want to try to understand the
scientific background of this. I won't try to explain it now because I don't fully understand the,
the workings of the Hartman Whistle. Let's see, you know, we've got in this particular.
So is this, if this was retrofitted onto the chimney stacks of energy plants and coal, you know,
coal plants, is it possible, do they speculate that they could basically get it to where it's
zero emissions or zero pollution coming out of those chimneys?
Yes. That's probably, that's the ultimate goal. Where it's at now, you reduce it to
almost insignificant levels coming out. And here, this is showing a retrofit of...
And more power, obviously. Yes. Falcon Futura, MSAT, Plasmoid Energy retrofit,
so it could be retrofitted to cars. Here is another, this would be for a jet.
Turban, this is where it really gets interesting. And I'm not going to try to explain this because
I'm still studying this, but you can see it's got, there's that cross-section of the torus there.
And it's capturing all of this. There's videos that explain the idea here behind this.
So I would recommend that people go online, go to howtube.com or Strike Foundation and you
can find links to all of this. You can download the videos, watch them yourself.
Links to other work that supports this. You know, there's been other, a lot of papers
presented on plasma, potential plasma technologies. The work of Ken Shoulders
very much preceded the work of Malcolm. And all of his papers are available online.
You can get them, you can download them, you can read them. And then we will be
forming a study group that we can, that people who are working with this can learn about it.
And this is, this is the scheme for a jet engine.
Wow.
So there's, there's a lot to it.
What are the skeptics saying about this?
No, well, nothing other than, oh, it's a hoax.
It's just a hoax.
It's just a hoax. Yeah. I mean, they're not making any, nobody's making an intelligible
argument to explain any of this away. And in fact, like I said, several of the skeptics who
come on, look at it and have said, well.
It's hard to understand. So it's, yeah.
Let's introduce this video. All right. So what is this video we just found?
This is, this is an interview between Gary Ling, who has been associated with the,
the plasmoid work, friend of Malcolm's for years. He was there at this London build out and
George lush did the annealing of the, of the components for the thunderstorm generator.
And then he was there as an independent witness to the installation of the thunderstorm of the
technology. And now he's giving his response to it admits that he was initially skeptical.
Highly credible individual. You can do the research. He's third generation.
And again, this is an interview between Gary Ling and George lush right here.
Who has, whose company has been annealing the hemispheres on this project.
And George has come down to visit us on site. And so George, can you tell us a little bit about
your background on who you are? And I know you like tea.
Yes. Tea is the primary fuel. So yes, George lush. My company is lush heat treatment.
We're aerospace heat treaters. We've been in the, in the business for well, many decades.
We started in 1952. And our main business is space and aviation metallurgy.
It's all, all the high and stuff. We worked for a bit of share of space rolls,
Royce with NADCAP, you name it, we're approved for it by it.
And was I right that you were worthy annealers?
Yes. Can you tell us a little bit about that process for the hemispheres,
which are used on this project? On this first iteration, it was a rather a time pressure.
So because of material availability and speed, these were just done as a sort of
temporary first evolution in just mild steel, not in the expectation that they would be a
long lived device, but purely to prove concept. So we ran an anneal on the material so that it was
homogeneous and uniform and would lend itself to further working and then the welding and every
other operations going on. The degree to which everything about this is so madly counterintuitive
and again being asked to come out and experiment with, take part on the experiment on site today
and running the thermal camera and seeing it for myself. It's just astonishing results and the
difference of 300 degrees on a just a small copper pipe and the bottom chamber isn't even a chamber,
it's just an elbow on this, this tiny little facsimile of the proper system. And the elbow at
the bottom is 330 degrees and the outlet pipe beyond it four five inches away to 30 degrees.
I can tell you from the conductivity, I'm no great physicist, the conductivity of copper
it's impossible to be four inches away with a flow going through from something that's 330 degrees
four five inches away to 30 degrees. You can't just drop 300 degrees if not possible,
but I've just seen it happening today. Right so that was on the 432 which is as you say
we call the chonder and that's the small one. Just down at the bottom of the device
and seeing the top of the small sphere at the top, this little test unit
330 odd degrees, 340 up there, but then within a few inches on the transfer pipe dropping down
to 180 degrees thereabouts. There's no other way to explain it, the facts are there, the
the evidence is there and I was panning the thermal camera up and down quite convinced that I'm
making a mistake here. I'm not hitting the right thing, but so many times up and down and up and
down and it was it was it was recording and showing the same thing. So hopefully when the
film is examined to download it it will give better data because I'm not the steadiest hand with a
camera, but time it again 300 plus degrees on the ball at the top, found in the 170 80 something
like that middle of the pipe, then the pipe at the bottom where it goes into the elbow
300 odd degrees and then on the outlet pipe to the exhaust dropping down to about 170
odd degrees in six or seven inches. There's just everything about it is massively counter-intuitive
and there's no explanation for it rationally to be displaying that just the temperatures
and changes that are going on. So the the diagrams that are posited from the earlier
experiments and theories are proving to be exactly what's going on, but there's a lot more to learn
here in terms of the behavior of everything. I just you know I find it absolutely fascinating.
Yes so you've so um we still got obviously the big testing on the uh the 24 and 18s.
Yes. You know we're on our way on with that or we will be soon, but you've seen all the construction
of the stuff that you with the components that you've put in. It's quite impressive isn't it really?
It's really it's always nice to see things that I see okay this is good in their final state but
also that give it one more minute. Okay. I was just I ran out of fingers and toes so I put it on
the spreadsheet just thinking about the applications for this so and what what was the well well
can you give us a just a short outline of that? All right so figure power stations put them on power
stations the power stations are now spitting out 20% oxygen as they're exhaust everyone's going to
like that the carbon dioxide and monoxide particulates from what we've seen so far on the
sensors drops away to zero or so near to zero but it's just to be clear that's the the sensors on
the mSARP technology that's currently configured yes particularly on the chonder which is a small
one but yeah and it's that it's making the point that even now at just the first evolutions of this
that it's working so well that the the the mSARPs are just turning out
20 odd percent oxygen as an exhaust gas and you see it when they switch it off and it falls away
and switch it on and it comes up this thing's pumping out clean air you could go into a Swiss
mountain meadow it's not as clean as the exhaust on this yes that is a principle of just ludicrousness
just to illustrate how absurd and yet true the exhaust readings on this are now i'm i'm as skeptical
as it gets if you don't show me evidence i i don't believe you and i'm seeing these results it's just
sort of not believing them but i was looking at them when i was thinking oh no i must be being
stupid i must be re-misreading this this thing's putting out 20% oxygen whereas before on this
reading before it was turned on it's you know nice nicely running engine it's 11-12%
carbon dioxide an engine running quite well but it's pumping out pollution well that's what you're
going to get then you switch this thing in 20% oxygen negative more carbon dioxide and monoxide
it's a slum machine but it's working yes the evidence is there so yeah returning to the
applications fit it on every power station another big pollution emission is is shipping
transport so figure all the container ships in the world should have these fitted to them
cruise liners same thing it's just that you know the cargo is passengers
all of all the trains running diesel for instance fit these on that the fuel economy is going to go
through the roof your emissions are going to fall away to nothing
what else can we do oh now the other one that i thought was interesting and again
just a thought that where the early evolution where they played about with the venturi just to
see where in the the pike gives the sweet spot they got cryogenic results it was it was minus 50
or 60 or somewhere there so right away the air conditioning industry just stopped because
you've got a 50 story glass office building in a city and you put this technology down in the
basement and you're pumping cryogenic air straight out of it so you've got no refrigerants
no cfcs no pollutants you're just creating cold air as a as a byproduct normally or cooler
wow you can set this up to be pumping out cryogenic air pump it around your 50 story
building so if you figure how much does it cost to run a 50 story new york city office buildings
air conditioning for a year how much electricity does that consume with the attendant carbon and
all the rest of it now here's another one you fit this to every vehicle it's on every truck
every bus here you don't need you know the 22 kilo air conditioning pump under the bonnet if you
can't show your cars running a tiny little plasmoid motor as well as you know on the side so you're
using half as much fuel or whatever you're getting all the power out of it your tailpipe emissions
are 20 oxygen you've got a million of these cars going around a city that's all smoky and horrible
and then once it's these cars each car's just pumping out 20 percent oxygen the cars on the
street become a big city park of trees that go down the road yeah i think that that's believe
you me i think there are a lot of the mega corporations who have that one in their science
but george look that's one but you figure your car is now 25 kilos lighter set up one of the
ventures maybe we can set this up with two ventures one for main fleet and one for cryogenic
that's your air conditioning that's taken care of there's a load of mass you don't have to make
air conditioning pumps anymore the factory for that can be converted to something useful
you're not having to produce uh the fridge probably good steve that's good wow how many more tests
do we have to do before this starts becoming something that's more mainstream and used by
some of these big mega corporations well those tests are ongoing right now like i said there's
like a major testing laboratory in the united states that's doing a series of tests and i
think it's going to go a long way to establishing the credibility of this um but yeah there's um
several countries that are interested in the licensing so we'll see what happens over the
next six months um i think this thing could explode if there's not implode yes it could
it could go big if there's not um obstruction artificial obstruction why would there be
artificial obstruction do you think well like he said at the end you know with this again well
you want to know what i think is that you know the there's huge huge hundreds of billions of
dollars of investment now in the green new energy you know the um the alternative energy what they
call the clean energy um wind and solar wind and solar and basically this makes that completely
irrelevant i mean it's completely irrelevant if this goes on a large scale but i it you know it
may happen i think it's going to happen simultaneously on two levels i think you've got you know you'll
have this group of of people and some of the people that have seen that are very interested in this
are very bright intelligent young people that that are studying physics and mechanics and engineering
and things that are getting interested in this and so i think over the next year we'll see
more of the small scale applications you know retrofitting like this guy jordan who does um
alchemical science it's a website that he does he's been really getting into this and
um studying the principles and i just heard that i think he is going to be retrofitting a car and
malcolm and some of the team are going to be helping them with that and perhaps providing some of the
components uh and and one of the ideas is to basically create kits that you can because one
of the things that george was was was really saying here is that really the applications of this
are are mind boggling in terms of you know the things that could be done i mean it's just i
think it's very much parallel to you know where we would have been 120 years ago trying to under
wrap our heads around alternating current electricity and you know you know you start
talking about the applications well what are the applications of this well i mean well if you can
just imagine like when we first came up with the combustion engine and started developing steam
engines and diesel engines and cars imagine if we would have started with something like this
instead where we would be now yeah yeah and i don't know you know i mean again you could
that's a kind of a whole another separate study is the history of these kinds of ideas
and again like malcolm says he didn't originate a lot of this i mean there were other inventors
and scientists that worked on these ideas and built prototypes and tested them and
they all met with obstacles usually thrown in their way you know having your patent stolen
having very you know suppression there's a there's a whole sordid history of what's happened to these
inventors and and scientists that have attempted to go down this road and that was why the whole
strategy now is to open source all of this so you know there are licensing for specific applications
but overall the the basic principles are totally open sourced and all of the schematics
like the things i was showing you earlier it's all there anybody wants to to dive into it the
notes the schematics the videos it's all there and so some of this testing that's going on will
probably be made public relatively soon i'm not sure when but again like a lot of people at the
tesla tech conference out in albuquerque a few weeks ago they've gone away with an interest moray
b king who who is presided over tesla technology studies and applications and stuff for decades
he was presiding over this particular conference at the end of after they tested the the the
technology he his and and it's on video he making the statement that he thinks this technology is
decades ahead of anything that anybody else is doing and so we'll see i mean but i think that
the potential is there to if if there's if this isn't suppressed if it isn't you know um
haven't obstructions thrown at the pathway i mean the potential here i think is to completely
change the industrial landscape of the entire planet within a decade sounds almost too good
to be true well it does sound almost too good to be true but we'll just have to see how it plays
out and if enough people get on board um has he thought this through has he thought this through
as far as how some of these massive energy mega corporations could make money off this and
transition to this slowly if yes yes absolutely and i think that there is actually that potential
for some of the mega corporations just well for example the the the retrofitting of coal stacks
in india the indian government is looking at that and it's very possible that could be one of the
first large-scale applications of the basic technological principle um and if they do that
you know if other countries are interested there's a number of other countries that have
been looking at this um let me read from this is now this is what i've got here is this is alpha
prospects alpha prospects is um handling the licensing okay and they are a little bit about this
alpha prospects is an energy-based investment holding company it owns 15 percent of strike
energy a u.s incorporated company which has been granted the license for the revolutionary
molten sea arc atomic reconstruction technology or msat as the australians pronounce it by the
strike foundation which owns the intellectual property rights now the strike foundation
is the nonprofit side and strike energy is the profit side okay um in july 2023 alpha prospects
was granted the exclusive license to msat technology in thailand alpha prospects also owns 10 percent
of strike foundation um in addition the company has a portfolio of other investments in energy
and then it goes on um it says in the subtitles here the subheadings game changing fuel saving
technology significantly reduces carbon emissions set to revolutionize energy and power industries
major manufacturers are now lining up for testing unprecedented data in trials wide variety of
applications dividends expected next year um so it goes on i can we could we can copy this and i
can leave you with this if you want to read the whole thing i'll just read a couple of highlights
here msat allows for the recovery of waste energy and the removal of toxic emissions from the exhausts
of industrial processes and internal combustion engines the technology enhances the energy
efficiency and emissions profile of any industrial device or process that produces heat aspects of
this technology are commonly referred to as low energy atomic reconstruction or lear and also
plasmoid power a plasmoid is a coherent structure of plasma and magnetic fields that's well understood
in the scientific literature as part of electromagnetic particle theory plasmoids are
found naturally in thunderstorms and in the rare phenomena known as ball lightning msat creates
plasmoids in exhaust gases to recover waste energy and recycle it back into the system as well as
converting harmful emissions into water and oxygen the key advance is that the whole process is
undertaken with low energy inputs splitting carbon dioxide molecules isn't hard at high
temperatures but it's expensive doing it at low and economic temperatures is likely to be a major
game changer because it can be achieved at minimal cost how does it work firstly air is ionized using
uv light and introduced into the system second plasmoids are formed in water by passing the
ionized air through a catalyst plasmoids are then generated by collapsing cavitation bubbles
which are created by a vacuum and then imploded by applying pressure finally the cold plasmoid and
water mixture is passed through a catalytic tornado resonator that's the thunderstorm generator
this comprises two spheres the exhaust gases from the engine act on the plasmoids and energy is
released in the form of a heat that is sufficient to charge to change the molecular structure of the
exhaust energy is also transferred to the plasmoids retained in the water vapor which is then added
to the fuel intake of the engine either through a carburetor or fuel injector in the process energy
is released at an atomic level within the exhaust stream altering its composition and eliminating
toxic chemical wastes such as carbon monoxide nitrous oxide hydrocarbons and other toxic harmful
compounds and finally tests have been conducted at several locations and will shortly be ramped
up to an industrial scale via established partnerships with power generation companies
in the far east the most recent tests in the uk were conducted in july of 2023 okay these
aim to ascertain to what extent msat reduces engine exhaust emissions increases engine power
and changes the temperature conditions of the engine and so it goes on the commercial
applications that show some of the test results so what is it talking about with the molten the
molten sea what is the connection there well i'm not clear on that but that was one of the things
that was a source of inspiration for malcolm was the molten sea um that is described in the bible
in the old testament associated with king solomon's temple and i'll have more to say on that once
i've had a chance to look into it a little a little further um but we can quickly quickly look here um
at at some of the application this is um we saw a bit of that in the video if i go back we'll just
go through this quickly here so you can see the the build out we started with this the build out in
the in the machine shop here here this this guy is creating the sphere and this is an interesting
video we won't we won't watch this video but okay but yeah this is how they're creating the spheres
storm generator yep and there's some of the finished spheres now one thing i'm gonna show
you which is very interesting this is the transition piece between the spheres and the pipes
if you take this rim right here and this upper rim so this is the transition between
you know this is where the smaller pipe comes into the sphere and only one angle works
right that that with with maximum with optimum efficiency and that angle you can measure that
angle from the rim the top rim to the bottom rim so if i was to draw a like a chord line from the
top rim to the bottom rim that uh that optimum angle is 51.84 degrees
is that ring a bell 51.84 degrees which i think might be an important hint here 51.84 degrees the
optimum angle for this thing is the slope to base angle of the great pyramid exactly
so let that sink in does that possibly suggest maybe what the great maybe that somewhere in
there is a hint now are we getting into like is there a connection here with angles and
measurements to different frequencies oh yeah yeah and so so this is you know where
you know again there's no proof of anything maybe it's just a coincidence that it worked out that
they tested various angles of these transition components and it turned out that the optimum
angle was 51.84 degrees i don't know maybe it's coincidence it's the great pyramid but if it's
not a coincidence if it's not what does that mean i don't know other than the fact that
is there a hint that there may be some kind of a function there to the great pyramid that
involves there's many theories that the pyramid was a power plan i'm sure you're definitely yeah
yeah yeah but this might support that i don't know because again i i learned that and i thought
well wait a second 51.84 i've seen that before right yeah what what do you make of the theories
like the the geese of power plant theory that the well i to be honest i haven't really studied it
and i i can't you know i i don't like to make a pimp present opinions on things that i haven't
really studied into but learning this fact was enough to make me decide to to study further
into that idea okay but now with the idea of how is it possible that somehow this was involved in
the utilization of plasma energy you know there have been reports of anomalous lights and even
ball lightning associated with the apex of the pyramid so again that's more suggestive of what
might have been going on here and then i think in the ongoing research these are the kinds of
questions that are going to come up now i'm going to show you something else here when we look at
uh oh when we look at the the vajra steven is that something that you can find uh like balls
of lightning near the great pyramid yeah light light of illuminations things like that um
let's see here because there is if you look at the diagram of the great pyramid and you look at
all the different passageways that move through it and the chambers it looks like something that was
built very similar to something like this and i know ben talks about how the great pyramid gives off
this like low frequency sort of this it gives off some sort of frequency when when it's really
quiet it makes a some sort of a sound now that based on what we've seen let's take a look at
the vajra again now remember you saw the thing to have the importance of the cone
at the end of the technology yes look at the vajra could this be a could this be your swirl
chamber right here and you've got the tube running down and you've got the cones at each end which
would suggest that the vajra was really just a component of a much larger machine and maybe
the insertion of the vajra here this that we're basically just looking at the the heart of a machine
just like um you know just like gary ling said when he was pointing out the thunderstorm generator
well here's the heart of the whole system right where were these vajras found
oh do you know many places um yeah there's many depictions of them um
the vajra instrument of cosmic power two examples that one on the top looks super old
doesn't it though yeah perfectly symmetrical
mm-hmm and look you see you've got the cones at the ends you've got the tube running down the
middle and you've got the swirl chamber right there could these have been part of some kind of
plasma technology for the control of plasma I don't know I'm just looking at it and calling
attention to that and I'm trying to encourage other people I want many intelligent minds curious
minds innovative minds looking at this and too many people looking at it too many smart people
investigating it looking at it seeing the potential of it for it to ever be bottled up again that's
part of what my goal is so and then of course Zeus holding the thunderbolt it says note the
spiral form of the vajra right here and that remember when you had the the imploded torus
and the plasmas the plasmoids the plasmas are whirling down in the form of a vortex in a spiral
vortex and there we have a spiral vortex right there in Zeus's version of the thunderbolt so again
I don't know I don't know but I think it's it's suggestive enough that maybe it warrants further
investigation and consideration with an open mind the Zeus whole hurling a thunderbolt
yeah that looks just like that thing mm-hmm yeah so I have instinctively believed and with some
substantial evidence that there has been a lot more sophisticated knowledge and scientific
knowledge in the ancient world even to possibly the prehistoric world exactly what form that took
I was never clear on I didn't have any specific vision of what that was other than that there was
enough there there's enough out there that just doesn't fit into the prevailing explanations
and paradigms of ancient history there's just too many things that are anomalous right now
this is just one example here what was going on with with mithraism and what's interesting here
you know again look at this the coil of the serpent is the is that's there's your there's
your coil again see that could be and there's so much here to dive into that we couldn't really get
into it all right now obviously there's your molten sea and it's half of a half of a sphere
and all of the numbers are the key numbers like Malcolm when he studied those numbers
realized that those numbers were again what he did these these the numbers like the 4 3 2
that shows up over and over again that was the basis of the whole system of of the divine kings of
samaria the time cycles of the Vedas it's also a number that's embedded into bible over and over
again 3 2 yeah 4 3 2 and those are the optimum sphere ratios of the spheres 4 3 2 so again I
don't know it would be worth could they be just coincidence sure I'm not gonna angle of that thing
being 51 degrees just like the angle of the pyramids be just a coincidence I guess yeah I don't
know I'm not going to complain that it proves anything I'm not going to proclaim that but I'm
also going to consider what if it's not a coincidence might be a coincidence you know it's
got to be investigated not by somebody who's made up their mind beforehand before they've looked at
the evidence of what's possible or what's not possible it's got to be investigated with an open
mind and you know again with coincidence it becomes a matter of how many coincidences are we allowed
before we finally okay this has gone beyond coincidence that's the question but when we're
talking about like that some of the ancient technologies that were lost from the ancient
times for for example some of the stuff that Ben shows with the symmetry of these these insane pieces
of these vases that are made out of the hardest stones and they're perfectly symmetrical within
one one millionth of an inch um and the great pyramids the moving of these enormous multi ton
stones not only moving them for hundreds of miles but elevating them to the top of these pyramids
is there any is what is there anything that suggests that this plasma technology obviously
this technology is great for emissions and having clean emissions but is there any evidence that
this stuff could actually be responsible for moving these massive stones or creating some of
these perfectly symmetrical vases well I have not pondered how this might apply to creating
those perfectly symmetrical vases certainly if we uh maybe Steve would look up uh look up
stone cutting and plasma okay so what's going on here oh they're cutting stone with plasma
yeah so they're already doing it they're using plasmas to cut stone whoa
so I mean perhaps we could explore the idea that at least from the quarrying end the cutting of the
stone perhaps was utilizing some kind of plasma technology how does plasma cut stone here search
search for this how to how is granite cut today granite can be cut wet or dry using a circular
saw or an angle grinder cutting wet granite requires wet cutting saw okay so it's just a
regular saw it's not conventionally used with plasma but obviously it's been done with plasma
yeah I mean there is a whole method that and again I haven't looked into that
can you find like a description that explains how it works
plasma cutting is a process that cuts through electrically conductive materials by the means
of accelerated jet by an accelerated jet of hot plasma typical materials cut with plasmas
with a plasma torch include steel stainless steel aluminum brass and copper
although other conductive metals may be cut as well plasma cutting is often used in fabrication
shops automotive repair restoration industrial construction and salvage and scrapping operations
it's interesting stuff isn't it it is especially when you start start stacking it on
to and comparing it to all the sacred geometry in these numbers and finding all the correlations
and all of the depictions of these vajras and stuff and ancient texts and ancient depictions
I don't know what to make of it but it's definitely is interesting well I'm still wrapping my head
around it but you know like we talked about earlier you know there is the question of
the possibility of ancient civilizations which I think we haven't proven the existence of an
ancient civilization you know in the say in the in the sense that like Graham Hancock talks about it
but there's so many anomalies that it's kind of gotten to the point where you know for a century
and a half they've been brushing all of these things under the rug that would seem to suggest a much
deeper much more complicated and complex and sophisticated past to human civilization on this
planet and what I've now learned about the plasma technology it seems to me like the natural
candidate for being the basis of an alternative technology and the other things the tantalizing
things that we are looking at here and going it looks coincidental but maybe it's not maybe there
is more to this idea of the vajra and being an implement of power a tool of power that
wielded by the god Indra or Zeus or whoever it might be is it possible that that's a remnant
of a much ancient more ancient knowledge of of a kind of a technology or a scientifically
based civilization that may have not looked anything like our own fossil fuel based civilization
that's the point and that's the point I think that we are making in the podcast with Ben is that
you know if we're looking for in a mirror for whatever an ancient civilization might have
have looked like and we're looking in that mirror we're just and we're looking for a reflection
of ourselves we might be missing it but I mean we could go down a list and Graham's you know Graham's
work really is is definitive in that you know he has gone as far as anybody I think
else has gone towards establishing a case that there is something that our modern explanations
of history and prehistory are just not explaining that they're that they're almost a deliberately
ignoring and that really to me became obvious with the mainstream attacks on ancient apocalypse
and the misrepresentations and the character assassination of Graham and so many others
whose names we won't mention because of the fact that there could be this blowback but
they're out there and anybody who does this kind of research is going to quickly learn all of this
on their own and that's what I'm trying to encourage people to do ask questions you know
be skeptical just like George lush was skeptical up to a point but then
it gets to the point where you know it gets to that level where at some point you've got to go
okay I think there is something here we can make a case that there's something here and I started
thinking that years ago after I started having my conversations with Malcolm and things seem to
converge between what he was saying and things that I had already learned but I didn't have the
scientific foundation to to say yeah this makes perfect sense but I've learned a lot
I've still got lots more to learn but I've definitely now seen that there has been multiple
levels of tests going on and you know I've now myself been able to witness some of these tests
going on and with credible people who are there as much to debunk this is to prove it and they're
coming away like George well it's counterintuitive how does this work I don't know I've just seen
the results for myself so he says you know there's a lot of work to do to to piece all this together
to to unpack all this and figure out what the scientific rationale is I think what I'll do is
we'll go quickly before we get to the end maybe yeah just show you the build out of the latest
could we go back to my laptop Steve but here you can see the fabrication of the of the large the
largest to this date scale industrial scale thunderstorm generator
and what was this one retrofitted for this was retrofitted we'll see in a second this was
onto a 400 kilowatt generator on a power plant there you can see the concentric spheres
we'll just quickly go through this there's there's your bubblers yep
and here's the power plant that's Gary laying again that's the housing for the generator
and that's one of those is an engineer and one of them is the manager of the plant these guys are
not going to turn over and allow their big generators you know to be retrofated with this
unless they were convinced there was something there okay so and where did you say this was again
well it's somewhere in the British Isles okay let's see so this this is the the generator right here
that they're about to retrofit okay so there's here the truck has come to the site let's see here
we don't need to go into all of this right now
all right so there's the there's the thunderstorm generator on the truck
let's see
and it's being hoisted with the crane
up onto the generator housing
that is bizarre that is it lowering it into place
and then there's the crew doing the assembly
there it is in place and let's see here we just keep going
and okay so here this is showing how the the dimensions and the proportions are critical
to this thing working properly so here you have 12 inches one foot right I think we were talking
about that yesterday weren't we yeah we were and again showing the measurements how the dimensions
are very precisely constrained and here this is leading from the bubbler up to the thunderstorm
generator the bubblers are down here below and there's the technology now installed on top of
the generator housing we won't and so now they put the heat resistant paint on it
and here's the bubblers down below says bubblers in place ready to start producing plasmoids
that's this is the type of generator 400 kilowatt perkins diesel generator this is not the actual
generator but this is what's down below this is that's what's here that they've now retrofitted
and
there's the bubbler in operation this is slow ocean yeah and those are all the toroidal the
bubbles you're seeing are not the ones generating the plasmas okay the micro scale bubbles are the
one because the larger bubbles are not symmetrical enough they have to be symmetrical okay and this
is part of the heat analysis showing what this is what was astounding george lust so much is how
the heat changed from hot to cold just literally in a few inches that was a that was the thing that
that puzzled him oh wow this is a thermal view of it yeah this is nuts yeah
so 365
388 degrees celsius where he's pointing it at
that's 700 degrees fahrenheit now let's keep going let's see if he points it somewhere else and see
what it changes to well i've got there's like a dozen of these thermal imaging videos and i only
put one in the show okay big keeps oh is that is that the whole thing okay got it well let's see
well that was just a still image and here you can see some of the results so here's a
Honda generator with petrol that's regular gas and if you look here you can see the carbon
dioxide up here was at 10 11 53 before they turned on the technology was 9.3 percent here it is like
four and a half minutes later it's zero here's the carbon monoxide 5.48 percent
zero here's your oxygen 4.66 percent of the effluent was oxygen after they turned the technology on
20.97 hydrocarbons in parts per million 199 down to 58 and your nitrous oxide in parts per million
27 down to 4 and you can look similar here's Honda with tip gas tip gas is uh oh this is a
British term again um i think tip gas is the gas that is emitted from uh landfills i know they
did test that using on gas emitted from landfills um and again you can see similar look at here
oxygen 21.37 percent
Perkins with mains gas and you can yeah and again all of this is online posted
so here's the the rough so this is the same data you see right here coming directly out of the
gas analyzer co2 9.3 percent and then over here you can see it's 0.0 carbon monoxide 5.48
and here zero zeroed out um oxygen 4.66 and then 20.97
so yeah whoa
look at that where did where did they get this yeah i would have to ask Malcolm
he's been to India and in fact i was involved in one of the conversations with um
his name's calm carpenter he's the head of the india foundation and he's the one that set up meetings
with the indian government the indian government might be the very first large-scale application
of this technology and i actually participated in the initial conversations with calm carpenter he
is the head of the india foundation and it's a liaison between the french government and the
indian government he had high level contacts indian government and he went to them with this
technology and um at one of the meetings i went to one of the admirals of the indian navy was there
i met the man uh and the indian navy is like you saw that george lush was pointing out the
potential applications of this technology ships could be the indian navy might be one of the
first two are there any other like bizarre crazy out there applications that don't involve
clean energy like is there anything that's like outside the spectrum of energy that we could
that this could be used for like outside of like cars or or smokestacks or engines i don't know
i would say probably but i'm not going to put my neck out there on the chopping block and say
yes there is um but yeah i mean i'm still learning well what's like the wildest speculation
that people are talking that malcom might be talking about i think space propulsion space
propulsion yeah using this as a propulsion system and there is a there is yeah there's one of the
things that's uh kind of on the drawing board now is a prototype jet engine that could be used both
as a power plant in like submarines and in space space propulsion like for rockets
now you would think there would be a better way other than just
blasting rockets into outer space so you would think you wouldn't even need a rocket right you
would think you could get something else that could just pull itself through the universe like
some of the crazy anti-gravity technology that some of these guys are talking about with UFOs
how these things bend they fall through gravity by basically uh creating some sort of anti-gravity
i don't know the physics of it well there are there are some concepts out there that are pretty
esoteric as far as the plasma plasmoid unit uh applications but i've deliberately not tried
to dive into those yet only because i'm still like i said i mean i gotta get into at least high school
plasma high school before i do that i'm still in grade school so what is that can you show
that slide that you were shown before that showed like the big mountain like the diagram of the
mountain with the rockets inside um what does that say earth is what okay it's earth diameter
you should recognize that number right can you blow it up oh yeah yeah yeah 79 20 i remember
that number from yesterday you kidding me i'll never forget that number
and 39 60 that's the radius so double 39 60 is 79 20 got it okay now this is showing a
diagram of solar wind the sun's diameter which is 864 and radius of that number 432 the radius of
the sun solar when solar wind leaving the sun okay so essentially like these machines could just
use energy from the sun to operate and not have to use fossil fuels to start up that could be
what this is implying because see the key is you have to get you have to get matter up to the
requisite temperatures to disassociate the electrons and the neutrons and i right as i
understand it that was the function of the ionization chamber right right was to it enabled
the reduction to and that's what they're calling the leer low energy uh low energy
uh shit i don't remember now i'm getting tired i guess um i better probably have another
hit off the here off the uh we're on the final stretch anyways let's wrap it up yeah let's wrap
it up oh there you go randall i'll i'll send you some oh okay
but yeah i this is okay go back to that one with the rockets this is definitely what i'm
i'm going to be diving into this absolutely because this is where it really very fascinating to me
but how it works don't ask me to explain it yet but you can see a spacecraft launcher and payload
delivery system and that schematic that exploded schematic that i showed you is the idea of of
building these engines using that are running on plasma energy so that's further down the road
and i'm not ready to even attempt an explanation of that yet
but you can see it's fascinating and thanks for showing these slides the slides the slides are
are wild yeah this is like rockets that are housed inside some big mountain
and i guess they get pushed through that plasma generator tube uh i'm guessing that's what's going
on there yeah so yeah there's a lot to this um and this is my the first time i've ever done a
recorded public presentation diving into this much detail okay on on this uh but it's good because
like i said i i'm very much now a student of this trying to understand it and i think that
there's multiple dimensions to this whole phenomena that many people will be exploring for years to
come and we'll be figuring out applications that we haven't even begun to imagine yet um and i've
seen enough now to become convinced that it's real and the i mean now there are dozens of people
that i'm aware of that i've communicated with or i am aware of that have seen it and participated
in the testing not you know not lightweight people who have a strong scientific background
so i think at this point it's it's it's pasted an important hurdle from the time i made those
first comments on joe rogan and that is these three levels of testing that have now been
demonstrated one the what i just showed you the retrofit of the power plant in england
um what happened at the tesla tech conference there and what is now happening as we speak which
hopefully soon we'll we'll have be able to get you know reveal the specifics on that it'll be
interesting to see how this evolves and how it pans out especially when it comes to like
mainstream people in academia at universities starting to study this stuff and taking it seriously
me and like you we were talking about before we started the podcast being published in journals
because you were even saying that some of the stuff the evidence of the Younger Dryas and the
Younger Dryas period with the cataclysms that happened there contributing to the
drastic change in climate is still being it's being kept out of the journals yeah that's what
it seems like it just and what's interesting is that that first 2007 paper that came out
proposing a Younger Dryas impact was published i believe it was at the proceedings of the
national academy of sciences a lot of the articles that have come out subsequent to that
were published in the mainstream journals and there's dozens of them i mean i have copies of
all of them i've read all of them you know that's something i can actually talk about with a little
bit more confidence say than i'm talking about plasma technology because it's something i have
been actually studying for years where these two dovetail is the is the idea that if you've got
evidence of these ancient catastrophes that have remodeled the surface of the globe
and potentially caused the collapse of civilization then we have to kind of open our minds like we
were talking about earlier number one don't be looking in a mirror don't be necessarily thinking
that an advanced civilization or a scientifically sophisticated civilization has to look like our
own because if you're looking for a mirror image of our own we could overlook it the second thing
is is realizing and this is why i do the tours why i'm trying to bring people into the field
and i've been bringing more and more geologists into the field to try to show them here is the
evidence and here is the the the the language of catastrophism like we talked about with Ben so when
when the the um the interview with myself and ben when you post that people will be able to listen
to that you know where i'm discussing this this idea that you know there's a whole uh there's a
whole grammar of this that i'm trying to get people it's it's literacy in being able to read
this story that's writ large into the landscape of planet earth that is literally but literally been
waiting 13 000 years to reveal itself and we're now at that stage where we can see that we can
begin to begin to decipher and actually read this epic story that has been waiting eyes to see
the ears to hear and the mind to comprehend and that's what i'm trying to do with these tours
now this comes along and dovetails with that i think because and and we'll get more into we'll
have more discussions on this i believe as we go further down the road um but you saw just a few
tantalizing hints that perhaps some variation of this kind of technology was already had been
discovered and utilized once upon a time right maybe even in prehistory and what we're seeing
in the legends and the stories of indra and zeus and the vajra and the manas and all of this kind
of stuff that would seem to imply some kind of a technology maybe it's not just the conjurations of
pre-literate you know out of control imaginations but is actually fragments of memories of something
that actually once existed and from what i've learned up to this point i would say i can come up with
no more uh potential candidate for what a technology would have been based upon than this
that the utilization and the control of plasma energy and when i learned that that that that
the geometry and the frequency and the numbers that that are measured by these frequencies
are key to the operation of this technology that seemed to confirm what i had instinctively
realized through my own studies of sacred geometry that it was more than just an aesthetic
that there was something probably scientific and technological at the base of sacred geometry
why are ancient cultures using sacred geometry all over the world to build these structures right
yeah it's just you know so i think we may be on the cusp of something very interesting because
on the one hand application of this technology like george lush is that we watch the interview
he's just you know his imagination is is going crazy thinking about potentially what could we
do with this right literally the potential might be her to change the industrial landscape of the
earth i mean it could be as profound as the shift into the internal combustion engine or the
utilization of alternating current energy um and if this is not suppressed maybe a generation from
now the landscape of the earth is going to look very different um and like george lush said i mean
if you if you retrofit cars with this that are now producing toxic exhausts they're now each car
is like a tree emitting 20 oxygen as they drive i mean that's astonishing if that's true so on the
one hand we may be looking at a window into our future with this but uh same time we might be
looking into a window into our own past that's a beautiful way to wrap this up man randall thank
you so much uh i appreciate you walking us through all this stuff and i hope people watching or
listening uh can investigate this further and if they want to where can they go to find some more
of this stuff and support you randall carlson.com howtube.com and the strike foundation awesome
i'll link it all below awesome randall it's been enlightening it's been fun thank you so much for
coming down here again to do another round of podcasts and uh we'll get you down here maybe
maybe next year sounds good awesome thanks all right goodbye everybody
