Well, thank you guys for coming back.
It's great.
I don't know if this is the first, like, in-person podcast that you guys have both been a part
of or not, but it's a-
Well, together, yeah.
Thank you, Greg.
I think so.
We've done them virtually, but together, yeah.
In the same actual room.
And that's what I meant.
That's what I meant.
Yeah, in the room.
I know you've been on a bunch of Ben's podcasts before.
Yeah.
We've been in the same room before, but not combining that.
Yeah, with a podcast.
In the same room.
We have.
We've done podcasts together, but this is the first time doing a podcast together in
the same room.
I love it.
Now, is this, this is not the room we did last time.
This is the same room, yeah.
It is.
Yep.
Same room.
Okay.
So how's it feel to get censored by Joe Rogan?
It was a relief, because, um, well, it's kind of a long story.
I know he didn't, people listening, he didn't really get censored by on the video.
The guys just decided not to publish it for, for some reasons, but there was a lot of people
that were going crazy about that.
Yeah.
A couple of reasons.
The one reason was, well, first of all, let me, let me just give you a little background
on this.
Um, I had been on Rogan with Graham Hancock and the question of what kind of energy technology
may the ancient cultures might, they have been using, if any.
And, uh, I don't remember exactly, I think maybe Graham or Rogan, Joe looked at me, kind
of deferred to me, and I kind of mentioned offhand that, you know, I had an idea what
it may have been.
And before we went in, uh, Graham and I had discussed that we were not going to get into
the whole energy dimension of talking about ancient cultures and stuff, because for one
thing that's a little bit outside of Graham's purview.
He's looking at artifacts and, and I mean, he's looking at different kinds of evidence,
but the question is hovering over always.
And I think it had come up to the, the question had come up to, uh, you know, the, the, the
quarrying of the, and transported these great stones and, and, you know, the, I mean, Ben
will address that, I'm sure, in our conversation today, the, the, the growing evidence that
they did have some kind of our ancients, the ancient peoples did have some kind of,
uh, some kind of a technology that has been lost.
Okay.
So I just kind of dropped an offhand remark that, you know, I kind of thought, um, I had
some ideas along that lines and instantly Joe honed in on that and insisted I talk about
it.
And I didn't intend to talk about it because I felt at the time what I knew and what I
had learned to talk about it would have been premature, uh, because that's the way I like
to vet things before I start talking about them, like I know what the hell I'm talking
about.
Right.
So, um, anyways, Joe kind of pressed the issue and I, so I kind of got into it a little bit
and then he asked me if I would come back to talk about it in greater detail.
And I think, and I said, sure.
And I think I went back in November of last year.
But in the interim, a couple of things happened.
Um, as a result of what I did disclose on Joe's show, I mentioned Malcolm Bendle, the
inventor that I had been having a dialogue with at that point for about seven years while
he had been building and testing prototypes, um, and explaining to me the science and ideas
behind it.
Right.
When I first talked to him, you know, I was like, okay, sounds interesting, but I don't
know.
I don't have the command of the, the science to really determine whether this is legitimate
or not.
So over the course of the years, I learned additional things and I had a conversation
with a, um, an Australian author named Roland Perry, also an investigative reporter who wrote,
actually wrote a book about Malcolm.
He did the, uh, probably one of those most famous books is his biography of Mel Gibson.
Oh, wow.
So I had a long conversation with him on the phone.
And as a result of that, I kind of came away, well, it sounds like this is legitimate.
Now this guy, Malcolm that I've been talking to, it sounded like he had led a pretty interesting
life and was like a lot of geniuses, somewhat eccentric.
But what I learned was, and I'm not going to get into the specifics of this, is that
he got caught up in some scandals in the nineties and early 2000s based upon the fact
that he had been a, uh, his background was in geochemistry and he was an oil prospector
and he discovered an, uh, an oil deposit that was coveted by one of the mainstream, uh,
energy companies and he held a license to that, to the drilling rights and they wanted
that license.
So what they did was, uh, embarked on a campaign to scare away, uh, any potential investors.
So they bribed politicians, they bribed journalists to basically concoct a smear campaign.
And because of his background, there was food that they could take and exaggerate and take
things out of context, just like they've done to so many, you know, like they've done to
Graham Hancock.
You know, when he came out with ancient apocalypse, I don't know how much you saw in the, in the
mainstream, uh, a treatment of ancient apocalypse that, you know, he was being, Graham was being
portrayed as a white supremacist, a racist, a conspiracy monger, all of this stuff.
Um, this is what they do.
You know, when you go out, you step outside the approved narrative, they, they start throwing
it at you.
You know, they're doing it right now to, you know, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., trying to paint
him as a complete nut job because he's questioned the efficacy of vaccines and you're not allowed
to do that.
If you, if you do, and the approach is always not looking at specifically what you say and
what data, what facts, what evidence you bring forward, but you know, they, they, it's all
character assassination.
So there had been this whole slew of this stuff that had come out in the nineties, early nineties
and early 2000s.
As a result of this whole episode, the, the upshot of it was, is that the, the board of
directors of this particular energy company ended up resigning because they got caught
in the scandal.
One of the big oil companies?
One of the big oil companies, yeah.
So as a result of that, Malcolm was so fed up with the politics and all of that that he
decided that he was going to shift gears and go back to what he had been working on literally
since he'd been in high school, which was alternative energy based upon the, the control
of plasma, which is the fourth state of matter after solid liquid gas, you have plasma and
plasma has extremely interesting properties to it.
So the, the, the bottom line was this, Malcolm actually came to America and one of the purposes
he came here was among several reasons, but one of the reasons was he was going to tutor
me in the science and the technology.
So we spent several months, I worked with, with my colleague Brad Young, who I've done
a lot of, Ben knows them well.
We've been doing research together, traveling, organizing tours and all this.
And Mike Robertson, who is the CEO of howtube.com, where you will now find a whole lot of this
stuff dealing with plasma technology.
So the three of us worked with Malcolm, developed a 243 slide, slide show.
Then Malcolm proceeded to do lecture, a lecture series discussing what we had built on this
slide show over something like 10 hours of lectures.
Okay.
Now this is, came after, but so he was here, I was scheduled to go on to Joe Rogan.
And so myself, Brad Young, George Howard, who is the, he's one of the, I would say primary
people in the cosmic research team.
He does the website Cosmic Tusk and he's been in the forefront of, you know, studies
about the younger, driest catastrophism and all of this.
He wrote out there with us, another fellow that kind of is an assistant to me.
We went out there together, I went on Joe's and Malcolm came with.
Before we went on the show, I asked Joe if he, you know, because Joe wanted me to talk
about the science and I thought, okay, here I've got the guy himself and he's going to
be able to really get into a much more explicit and accurate discussion of the science than
I'm going to be able to.
So I called up Joe before the interview and I said, it just so happens, the inventor
is here.
What do you think about inviting him on and we can talk about the technology and the science
and what is a plasma and so on.
And he said, sure.
Okay.
So now in the interim, Jamie, who's Joe's producer, he started looking, found all of
this stuff from, you know, several decades ago that was part of this smear campaign.
It was like, if 10 years from now, somebody's going, okay, who's this guy Graham Hancock
or who is this guy?
And they pull up, oh, he's, this guy's a white supremacist.
He's a, you know, he's a racist.
He's, you know, he's out there promoting, you know, conspiracy theories and all of this
kind of stuff.
You know, there's a whole list and if you go back through the list of these inventors
and scientists have worked on these kinds of things, all the way back to Nikola Tesla,
you see that there's a repeating pattern of suppression, of discrediting, of character
attacks, all of that kind of stuff, right?
So as we walk in to sit down, Jamie has just dumped this pile of stuff in front of Joe
and Joe is looking at it, right?
Well so my priority and goal, which was to talk about the science at that point completely
got derailed for the most part and it got into the politics, the scandals, the conspiracy
theories.
And if it ever does get aired, you'll hear that I'm constantly trying to steer it back
to the science.
I had put together a slideshow and, you know, and it kind of went back and forth and Malcolm
got, you know, defensive because Joe kind of went into attack mode, which, you know,
had there been merit to this would have been a valid thing to do.
But so the, and then in the course of it, there were several comments made that really
kind of encroached upon a territory that had was being covered under non-disclosure agreements.
That was part of it.
Part of it was just the emphasis on politics and as it's going on, I'm kind of like shaking
my head and going, oh, this is not where I wanted this thing to go.
I wanted to talk about plasma technology.
You know, we're talking about all this other stuff.
So at the end of it, we, you know, adjourn, Joe comes, catches me on the way out and he
says, hey, would it be okay with you if I didn't air this right away if I spent some
time vetting it?
And I said, for me, it was like, yes, that's fine.
It was almost like a relief to me that this was because I knew it was going to completely
derail the conversation into discussion.
So I said, I'm fine with that.
And then he also asked me if I would come back on just myself and I agreed to that and
said, sure, I would.
But you know, in my mind, I wanted to get a better grip on the technology so I could
talk about it knowledgeably.
And also I knew that there was testing coming, it was in the pipeline and there was going
to be some major testing going on.
So I said, well, let's wait until the testing is complete and then the testing will objectively
show whether or not the technology is real, whether it's legitimate or so on.
And now where the testing is ongoing right now, there have been like band made a reference
to what happened at the Tesla Tech conference in Albuquerque a few weeks ago.
Yeah, I mean, you've added that pretty, pretty, what did you?
Yeah, well, there are a couple of things to say.
I mean, I feel like, I mean, I don't know Malcolm, I've not had the chance to meet him,
but I've been intensely interested in hearing about the technology and particularly its
relationship to things like it seems to have some properties of sacred geometry and we
can get into some of those topics.
But you know, I've heard similar things where you talk about the, you know, his reputation
or the fact that he's been set up and there's dirt that you can dig up online if you search
for him and certainly just through social media and other people, I've had people reach out
to me that are worried about you and your association with him.
My response to most of that is usually like, well, you know, people can be eccentric and
genius often is eccentric, right?
There's very rarely do you see like geniuses and people that whether they're right or wrong
kind of have ideas that change the world, it doesn't seem common that they're just like
regular normal people.
Nikola Tesla is a great example.
I mean, he was more or less pretty antisocial, probably would be, you know, not received
really well.
He would feel really strange to have met in person.
So you can separate kind of the man from the mission.
As Randall mentioned this earlier, right?
It doesn't just if he's eccentric or these things, you know, there's dirt on it, all
these things that have been said about him, it doesn't necessarily mean that he's wrong.
You can, you can separate those things.
So I've personally been interested in kind of the technology and to find out, you know,
let's get it tested.
Let's, I've seen some of the theory.
I've seen some videos of devices doing things, but there's always been the talk of the testing
and I've been talked to people that are involved in this.
And then, yeah, recently in Albuquerque at the, I think it was the Tesla convention.
I wasn't there, but I've spoken to people who were, and I think you can find videos
of it on YouTube.
They, Malcolm was there.
They brought a device.
They had it hooked up to, I think, a 20 kilovolt generator.
It had the, it had the whole thunderstorm thing attached to it.
And there were a number of people there.
I mean, that's a, you know, kind of an alternative energy conference.
And you typically have a lot of physicists and chemists and very qualified people that
are, that are interested in engineers that turn up.
And there was a number of people with their own instruments, like spectrometers and gas
analyzers.
And they hooked it up to this device that's running off, you know, it's basically, as
far as I understand it, there's a couple of different varieties of it, but one variety
is, is one that is attached to a regular internal combustion engine.
And they were seeing some frankly remarkable results just on the, on the spot.
And you can see this in, you know, on, on YouTube, there's been a couple other reports
about it on, on the internet, but you know, it's doing things like removing carbon monoxide
from the exhaust.
You're increasing a percentage of oxygen.
In fact, potentially even producing net oxygen might be a result of this, but yeah, I mean,
the CO2 levels go down plus your engine efficiency goes way, way up.
It's kind of like a feedback loop that is, it works in tandem with it, with an engine.
So that, that to me is very interesting.
And I, and what I'd, you know, what I think it all needs is, is kind of, you know, third
party independent verification and testing, which is, I'm sure something that's being
pursued.
So yeah, it was, it was that, that Tesla conference and the data that came out of that was, was
pretty interesting.
And I mean, I personally, technology aside, I'm, I'm, I'm interested in some of the theory
behind it and its potential application as something that may not necessarily be a new
discovery so much as a rediscovery, because as Randall said, I'm fairly convinced that,
that there's plenty of evidence that suggests there were some powerful tools and techniques
and technologies being employed far in the past.
I think it's the only way to explain some of the signatures we see in stone, some of
the logistical achievements that have been made.
And you know, at the bottom, at the bottom line of what that means is that there must
have been a power source to, to, to, to have this technology operate.
So it's, this is a potential candidate, I think.
I don't know.
It's, it's, that's, I, I'm interested in it from that perspective.
Now, do you think this plasma technology, you said it's a possibility, but like how much
of a possibility is that this stuff is responsible for some of the moving thousand ton stones
or cutting some of these immensely like hard stones?
Well, let me put it this way.
You know, now that I've got a better grasp of what it is, the more I learn about it,
the more it seems like it would be the prime candidate for an alternative technology and
a technology upon which an entire civilization could be based.
Yes.
That, that seems to me to become increasingly likely because it is so ubiquitous.
The whole idea of plasma technology in the fourth state of matter is real.
And there have been a lot of scientists who have been studying it for decades.
And so it's well known phenomena.
And it lends itself to all of these kinds of things that, you know, the alternative energy
community and alternative ancient history community have speculated about.
It seems to fill a lot of the gaps in that knowledge.
And so ultimately it's going to be, you know, the testing and building of prototypes.
And that's why Malcolm's got a nonprofit organization called Strike Foundation.
So they've applied for some patents, which are applications of the technology.
I'll give you an example, a chimney scrubber that would be, you know, on a coal plant,
a coal-fired plant.
So they've got a patent on that, right?
But the basic principles are being put out for free access with the idea to encourage
people to take those principles and work with them, test them.
So we got somebody right now who's going to be attempting sort of a backyard mechanic
who's going to be doing a retrofit of his car with the technology.
And that's one of the, one of the applications is you can retrofit any kind of engine or
generator that operates on fossil fuel, whether it's regular gasoline or kerosene or natural
gas or diesel, and it'll have the same effect.
The data is out there.
I mean, I was talking with George Howard the other day and he's saying that people are
building these.
Like if you go sit through the 10 hours of content, it's out there and you want to, you
have the skills to want to try and build one of these and use it as an application.
You can.
And as Randall said, the people are.
I've seen a few different videos on YouTube of people building these or running these
systems.
So it's it.
Yeah.
I mean, I know that the data is going out there, at least in the, on the theory side
and it's contained in those 10 hours of lectures that are up on Howtube, I believe.
Yes, it is.
So it makes, it makes the engines, you said twice as efficient.
About twice as efficient, yes.
So I guess like the problem will be figuring a way to scale it up, right?
They've scaled it up to a 400 kilowatt generator.
So that's, you know, industrial level.
And he said, Malcolm said in one of his presentations that this is, it all is based off of sacred
geometry.
Well, yes, because for example, the, the spheres are in the ratio of four to three to two.
And that's your fundamental number for 432.
And the lengths of the pipe, the diameters of the pipe, all of these things are in those
ratios that we get from the ancient canon of sacred numbers, which is interesting to
me.
Wow.
Otherwise they, they don't work as effectively if you don't use the, those particular ratios.
Okay.
Now, we're going to do a whole separate podcast on this stuff and go like super deep into
it.
So I don't know if there's anything else that we should show for now, but I do want to sort
of dive deep into the fundamentals of sacred geometry because that's something that we
did not cover on our first episode.
Yeah, that's a great idea.
That's, yeah, I think that's an excellent idea.
Can you give people a basic rundown, sort of an elevator pitch of what sacred geometry
is and how it ties into prehistory?
With the busy fall season already in swing, you might be looking for some wholesome, convenient
meals for those jam-packed days.
Factor America's number one ready to eat meal kit can help you fuel up fast.
With chef prepared, dietitian approved, ready to eat meals delivered straight to your door.
It's a great way to save time, eat well, and stay on track with your healthy lifestyle.
If you're like me and you're far too busy to always make sure you're eating well, that's
where factor comes in clutch.
You can skip that extra trip to the grocery store as well as all the prepping, chopping,
and cleaning and still get all the flavor and nutritional quality that you need.
Factors fresh, never-frozen meals are ready to go in just two minutes.
All you have to do is heat and enjoy so you can get back to crushing your goals.
Round up your meals and replenish your snack supply with an assortment of 45 plus add-ons,
including breakfast items like their delicious apple cinnamon pancakes, bacon and cheddar
egg bites, and potato bacon and egg breakfast skillets.
Or for an easy wellness boost, try refreshing beverage options like cold pressed juices,
shakes, and smoothies.
Head on over to FactorMeals.com forward slash DJP 50 and use code DJP 50 to get 50% off.
That's code DJP 50 at FactorMeals.com forward slash DJP 50 to get 50% off.
Back to the show.
Well, excuse me, I think that sacred geometry is geometry, as most people know, with the
additional component of there being a symbolism and a philosophy behind it that you don't
find in Euclidean geometry so much.
Euclidean geometry is your definitions, your axioms, your propositions and proofs and all
of that.
Well, all of that is part of sacred geometry, but in sacred geometry, we also get into the
idea of there being symbolical meaning to the numbers.
The other part of it is that the sacred geometry, you don't even have to call it that, but what
you do see is that across the spectrum of nature, all phenomena manifest geometry.
So if you look at the molecular level, you'll see geometry at work.
If you look at the cosmic or astronomical level, you'll see geometry at work.
Look at the human level.
Most people that are at least semi-educated about this kind of material know of the golden
section, right, also known as the divine proportion, you know, was used by Leonardo da Vinci and
others going back to the Middle Ages.
The diagram of the human body.
Yeah.
And the human body is a repository of the divine proportion, as it's been called, the
golden ratio.
And to put it simply, imagine that you have a line, this is the simplest two-dimensional
manifestation of a draw line, and now you divide that line into two parts.
If you divide it in the middle, now both sides of that line are the same length.
And it's a very static situation.
Nothing really, you can't get any additional properties out of that that you could use
in processes of growth, for example.
You need to have an asymmetry, because now as soon as you have the asymmetry, now you
have, see, if you have a line that's divided in the middle, that's very static.
Artists know that, right?
So in the sacred geometry, what you're doing is an asymmetrical division of a line, in
the one and only point where you create a proportional relationship between the length
of the whole line, the longer segment, and the shorter segment.
So in classes and lectures, I demonstrate this.
It's much easier to grasp when you see it than just hearing about it.
And I am actually in the process of creating a new level of sacred geometry courses, primarily
aimed at the massively growing homeschool movement.
Because I used to teach this, I did many years of teaching these principles to homeschooling
classes of kids from the age of typically nine to seventeen.
Discovered that when you incorporate the ideas of sacred geometry, it becomes a hundred times
more interesting than just your standard boring proofs and propositions and things.
But let's get back to that line.
An asymmetrical line where the ratio of the small section to the large section is the
same as the large section to the whole line.
Does that make sense?
So if you have a line and you divide it asymmetrically and you call the long length A, the short
length B, and the whole length C, in this case C, if you picture, can be the sum, will
be the sum of A plus B, won't it?
Right?
Okay, now let's go, we can take it either from the large to the small or the small to
the large.
Let's say the ratio of B over A is the same as A over C. The short is to the long as
the long is to the whole or the sum of the two.
So you could say as short B is to long A, long A is to A plus B. And that's the basic
mathematical expression of the golden section.
And then when you solve that, you find out that it has a value of 1.618, 0, et cetera.
It goes out forever just like pi, okay?
Now that ratio is the ratio found ubiquitously throughout the natural world.
Like I said, it's particularly associated with processes of growth.
It's very much manifest in human anatomy.
So Danny, if you take your cubit, which is elbow to fingertip, right there built into
your anatomy is the ratio I was just talking about.
So hold up your forearm like this.
Now feel around on your wrist and you will find that there's a little space in your wrist
joint.
You can feel it.
See, look, my thumb is in that space.
It's called the space of desktop.
Okay, so now imagine that line is your forearm from fingertip to elbow and that asymmetrical
division is marked by that space right there.
So now look what you get.
Small is to large as the large is to your whole cubit, which is elbow to fingertip.
So right there, it's right there.
If you look at your fingers, you see, look at the digit of your middle finger, Danny.
You start right here, you've got a joint right there.
Now you'll notice the next joint is longer, isn't it?
Yes.
From the middle of your finger to your knuckle, that progression is in the golden ratio.
So the small to the large, the large is to the next larger, and then from there to the
space of desktop, right, and then from there to your whole cubit.
Now do this.
If you turn your forearm horizontal and this is, you're standing on the floor and this
is the top of your head, then this space of desktop would coincide with your navel.
So again, it's the scale and variant relationship, but those are just a few examples.
You know, your navel is not the middle of your body.
Right.
However, when you're born, it pretty much is the middle of your body.
But as you grow, you grow into the divine proportion until you reach adulthood.
Now imagine this.
Think about the proportions of an infant.
Now imagine if you took an infant with those proportions, the size of their head, the distance
that their navel divides their body, and you enlarge that to the size of a full grown adult.
When you saw that person walking down the street, you would think they looked strange,
wouldn't you?
A little bit, yeah.
Yes, you would.
Well.
Something from Game of Thrones.
So the thing is, you're growing into that ratio.
You see what I'm saying?
Yes.
And everybody deviates a little bit.
Everybody deviates.
Nobody's perfect, although there have been studies at looking at artist models and things
like that, and the further away you deviate from it, the more I guess you'd say idiosyncratic
to use a polite term that you look.
And there have been studies done by artists and things looking at the proportions of the
human face.
Now, for example, if you do this, if you make a rectangle and you use the short length as
the short side of a rectangle, and the long length is the long side.
You now have a rectangle that is called a golden rectangle.
That golden rectangle is frequently used to frame the composition of paintings, of architecture.
Many things like that.
Also, artists came to understand that a golden rectangle will perfectly frame the face, the
height, because you notice if your face was as wide as your head was tall, again, you
would look strange.
Yes.
Right?
Right.
And then you can divide that rectangle.
So if you think of this as a vertical rectangle, and I may have a slide of this.
If you think if you've enclosed your head into a vertical rectangle, golden rectangle,
then if you lop off a square, what's left is another golden rectangle.
So the square defines your brow ridge, like this, from your chin to your brow ridge would
be a square, what's left over up here is another golden rectangle.
But you can subdivide the features of the face according to the golden ratio.
So you find it in your height, in the division of your navel, you find it in your forearm.
It's all manifest throughout the human body.
But it's manifest in all realms of nature, particularly in growing things.
And we find it in molecular.
It plays a very important role in the geometry of the DNA molecule.
Yeah.
I mean, it's reflected in the spiral helix of DNA.
If you take a cross-section of the molecule, if you cut it and you look at that cross-section,
you'll find it reflected in that.
So I like the golden ratios.
I kind of like to think of it as a constant in our universe.
It's a universal constant.
You can go from the DNA to something that's the size of a molecule or a DNA helix up to
the structures of galaxies.
And you'll also see in that spiral structure of galaxies, the golden ratio is reflected
in that as well.
So it's like a natural constant.
It's in nature, it's in life, as Randall says.
It's expressed in nature, particularly in things that grow.
But it also seems to be a constant in the very fabric or construction of our universe.
Like from the smallest levels to the very largest.
So it's a kind of a fundamental principle of reality.
And what is this?
Well, this is a two-dimensional model of a section of a DNA molecule.
And DNA is made up of these bases, these nucleotide bases, adenine, tarine.
You can see that they are a series of interconnected pentagons and hexagons.
Well, your pentagons are a pure manifestation of the golden section.
If you take a pentagon, which is a five-sided polygon, and you connect alternate corners,
you get a pentagram.
And the pentagram, if you look at it, it subdivides completely into the perfect golden
ratios of the sides.
So this is just, and this is one of the things I teach in my coursework, is how you find
this geometry embedded in various things.
So this is an example of your DNA molecule.
So yeah, here's your organic nitrogenous base of the purines, and there's your pentagon.
So it's like the geometry almost seems to be fundamental to the organization of the
bases, the molecular bases.
They use this geometry to build these molecular structures.
And that's what you see right here.
And a DNA is a great example.
I don't know if I have the cross-section here that...
Okay, wow.
Yeah, so here's your Vitruvian man.
The Vitruvian man shows one application of the squaring of the circle, and the golden
section is very much intrinsic to the solution of the squaring of the circle problem, which
is one of the great classical problems of antiquity.
And what I'm trying to show in this slide here is this idea that, you know, while going
back to this here, life is cosmic.
Within the past several decades, studies of meteorites that have fallen to Earth have
revealed that they contain the building blocks of DNA in the form of the purine nuclear bases,
which as we have seen, organize themselves according to the Union of Pentagonal and Hexagonal
Rings.
Their presence in meteorites provides powerful confirmation of the hypothesis that life originated
in space and was subsequently delivered to Earth through the agencies of comets and their
meteoritic offspring.
It demonstrates that life is cosmic in origin and confirms that geometry is fundamental
to the generation, function, and propagation of life throughout the universe.
Okay, I think I've heard this.
This is what they call panspermia, right?
Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
That's right.
Yep.
So, this geometry, this understanding of geometry and everything that's tied into it with mathematics,
it doesn't seem like it's something that is practiced in any sort of building or any
sort of technology that we use today, is that right?
To some extent, I think architects are getting more hip to the use of it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I definitely think that's happening because, you know, if you look at the 20th
century, 20th century, pretty much you can follow the recovery of these principles.
Going back to, you know, one of the early, I think, researchers into this was Jay Hambage,
who was a designer illustrator who discovered, he called it dynamic symmetry.
And dynamic symmetry was a system that I think was very much in use throughout by ancient
cultures throughout the world.
And dynamic symmetry links together a lot of interesting relationships that we find in
geometry, including the golden section.
And it kind of synthesizes these things.
I actually could pull up, I guess, a slide here on that that we could look at, and you
could see what it is.
Let's see if I can go to...
So this comes directly out of my sacred geometry course.
Okay.
And we'll see here, and you'll be able to kind of see how it works here.
Relationship to the meteorological systems of the ancient world.
Employed as the basis for temple construction, proportion, and orientation.
Metrological.
That's what I kind of meant.
We don't build anything based on the universe.
That seems to...
There's a lot of evidence that shows that a lot of the stuff that was built in prehistory
does a lot of it.
Yes.
Yes.
So here's...
I'm going to...
Let's see.
I'm going to...
And this is like...
This is straight out of my course.
So if you take this course, this is where we begin with it.
So erecting a line perpendicular to the endpoint of a given line, and I'm going to just show...
I'm going to go through this really quickly.
I'm not going to explain this.
I'm going to get directly into the idea of dynamic symmetry.
But it begins with being able to erect two perpendicular lines like you see here.
And then from there, it'll go to creating a square, okay?
So we just went through a process of defining the four corners of the square.
Now once you've done a square, you now can proceed with the system.
So the square's diagonals can now be drawn creating a central point.
So if you put in one diagonal and the other, you get a central point within the square.
See that?
Hmm.
There it is right there.
Diagonals of a square inscribed in circumscribed circles, ratio of diagonal to the side of
the square, and that shows the ratios right there.
We won't get into that because I'm just going to give you the overall impression.
So here's an inscribed circle.
We can do another square inside there.
So we've now got two squares, the circle inscribed in the larger one, circumscribed the smaller
one, and that creates a specific, what's called a dynamic ratio.
This ratio was fundamental to the ancient world and was used over and over again.
And here we go.
We've done it one more step, and it creates a series of concentric rings that have this
dynamic proportional relationship expanding or contracting, and it was used over and over
again in the ancient world to establish the dimensions of temples and sacred structures.
Now begin with a square called the length of any side one.
The length of each of the remaining sides will be one, agreed?
Right.
Okay.
The area of the square will also be one, one square unit.
And you put in that diagonal and you can quick, you know, use the Pythagorean theorem
and you'll see that the diagonal is equal to the square root of two, which it says right
there is 1.414213562, dot, dot, dot, meaning it goes on forever without repeating, without
terminating.
Okay.
So then what we do is we use that diagonal of that square as you see right there.
Now, if you're drawing this, you would be drawing with a compass.
You would put your, after the square is drawn, set your compass point at A and open to the
radius AC and you swing an arc down and you intersect the baseline of the square projected
out and you can see right there where they meet at point D.
So now you can see that the distance from A to D is going to be the same as the distance
from A to C, right?
Right.
See that?
Okay.
That ratio is the square root of two.
So now from there, we can generate a rectangle.
Now this rectangle, long side is square root of two, short side is one.
Now on a building site in the ancient times, you would have had, let me go back to this.
Let's say you've got your square laid out on the ground and you have a stake or a pole
driven in at A and you have a chain or a knotted rope that's stretched to C and then you can
actually inscribe this right on the ground.
And that's how they would have done it, to lay out the template for the building that
is about to be constructed.
So now once you've got that rectangle, the square root of two, I can show you many examples
of the root two in architecture, in nature and so on, okay?
The next step within this sequence of dynamic symmetry is to put that diagonal in.
Again you can use the Pythagorean theorem which shows you that the square of the short
side of any right triangle plus the square of the long side equals the square of the
hypotenuse.
So let's take, look, ADC is the right triangle.
This length is the hypotenuse.
So if you square CD and you square AD, you add them together and take the square root,
you're going to get the length of AC.
And that turns out to be, let's go through this.
I'm just showing, this is what we do in class, I show people how to construct these.
Now here's what happens.
We take the perpendicular to the diagonal and we get BE.
Now did you see how I got this point right here?
We can back up.
Too important you see that right now.
But if you put in the diagonal and then I draw a circle like this and notice that the
circle radius is the same as the side length of the rectangle, okay?
Right.
Now I take this distance here and I will take this length from here to here and let's see
that I call, okay, AF and now I bisect AF in this manner.
And when I do that, I get this perpendicular from here to here and that splits the base
of this rectangle right here, right in the middle.
And as a result of that, what happens is I get a series of these scale invariant triangles
and I can go through this whole, they all have the same proportions and then ultimately
what happens is I get two duplicates of the original.
There we go, let's see.
And I can create what are called the whirling rectangles.
And these whirling rectangles are showing actually a vortex phenomena that we can find
in nature.
Right.
Again, we get into all of this in the classes and you'll notice the symmetries that are
starting to appear there as we develop this sequence.
Wow.
You're melting my brain already Randall.
Good, this is what we want.
We want Danny's brain to be melted.
Give me those salts.
And so what we got here now is one of the things that makes them dynamic is the fact
that these rectangles are infinitely replicable, either growing or reducing.
So look what I've got here now.
You can see here that that rectangle in blue is the exact proportions of the original rectangle.
See that?
Yes.
Look at there.
And I can continue by creating a series.
I can create a grid and this grid is scale invariant, meaning it's self-similar, right?
And this is one of the key ideas of sacred geometry is the self-similarity of these forms,
which means that if you're creating a composition, let's say you're an artist and you're created
a painting that the canvas ratio is a root two rectangle, well, we're just looking at
here.
Well, you can divide this root two rectangle up just as I've shown you here so that all
of the parts reflect the proportions of the whole.
Now you have what the Greeks call stereometry, which is this relationship, this harmonic relationship
between the whole composition and its mathematics, its proportions and the parts.
So like if you look at this, you can see that within this, I'm showing here, these
are dynamic points within it and those dynamic points are kind of like where the energy is
happening, see?
Because if you connect these points here, what you've got is another root two rectangle.
And now, let's say you create a template using a root two grid, you now lay out your composition
of your painting or your building, whatever it might be on this template.
Now, you don't necessarily, you don't see the template, but you intuitively grasp that
there's this harmonic relationship between part and whole and that's what, this was one
of the secret techniques taught to architects and artists in the Middle Ages.
And you can see here, you can take this down to an infinite degree of precision or you
can go keep going with it.
So I take that diagonal in the root two rectangle and I repeat the process and I get a root
three rectangle and I can do the same thing except now when I erect that perpendicular
to the diagonal, what I do is I've split the root three rectangle into a series of three
smaller root three rectangles that all have the proportions of the whole.
And you can see now I'm drawing in diagonals to reveal the symmetries, the hidden symmetries
within it and then we can proceed as before to establish a template, a grid.
And then once we've done that, we have this infinitely replicable geometry.
So yeah, following are some simple examples of few patterns and designs that can be developed
from the relations of dynamic symmetry.
The possibilities and variations are literally without limit.
So this is just going to show you some of the stuff that you can begin.
Now how does all this relate to time?
How is that segue?
We get numbers, we get key numbers.
Like for example, look here, here's you just ask a question, look at this.
What are we looking at here?
We're looking at a large multi-ring cosmic impact structure.
Is this the Yucatan?
Yes, it's the Yucatan.
And when you have a multi-ring structure, the spacing ratio of the rings is root two.
Remember when I first showed you the concentric circles?
Yes.
That's what you're looking at right here, concentric circles that are in that ratio.
So when you have a high energy hypervelocity impact, it melts the target rock, turns it
into a liquid, you have your rings emanating from the point of impact as they're moving
outwards, they're cooling, they're crystallizing, and eventually they freeze into a solid.
It's the root two spacing ratio.
And there's some examples, Mari Oriental on the Lunar Impact Crater, and there you can
see the root two spacing ratio superimposed.
So, yeah, I mean, and again, this is something that, you know, I'm just, we're rushing through
it.
And the way you really learn this is hands-on.
So when I teach this in a course, I have everybody are drawing this.
Now in the new course I'm developing, I've kicked it up a notch because I'm also showing
how to do all of this digitally.
So if you work in a CAD program or some type of graphics design program, I'm showing how
you would use this as a design tool, not only in the classical way of compass and straight
edge, but also doing it digitally.
And so you're going to see here this, I'm going to do this very quick.
This is your, the transcendental root ratios are formed by the ratios of successive diagonals.
And we're creating a series of ratios here, that, we see harmonic progression, whatever
the measure of the radius of the inner circle, successive radii are measured by the sequence
of root ratios times the original radius.
And so this is like the geometric harmony of ancient metrology, unifying geometry applied
to temple building all over the ancient world.
Yeah, so the Mayamata, which is an ancient Hindu manual of architectural design, says
if the measurement of the temple is in everywhere, every way perfect, there will be perfection
in the universe as well.
Man is the measure of all things, said Protagoras.
Isaiah, who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and meet it out heaven with
the span and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains
and scales and the hills in a balance.
You'll find this in a lot of sacred traditions, this idea of measurement in metrology.
Here's the visions of Ezekiel.
In the visions of God, he brought me, now this is the prophet Ezekiel, right?
And this is very consistent when you look at the stories of the prophets, okay?
What's happening here?
In the visions of God, he brought me into the land of Israel and set me upon a very high
mountain, by which was the frame of a city on the south.
And he brought me thither and behold, there was a man whose appearance was like the appearance
of brass with a line of flax in his hand and a measuring reed.
And he stood in the gate and the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes
and hear with thine ears and set thine heart upon all that I shall show thee.
Because this was the key.
You can see this is the beginning now of his prophetic vision.
This man with the measuring line in his hand and a line of flax, right?
Because that gives you your plum and then you've got your measuring reed.
So this is the basis for laying out the sacred structure, the temple.
So what you're seeing here is that this is what's preceding Ezekiel's prophetic vision,
his encountering this man with the line of flax and the measuring reed in his hand.
And he's telling Ezekiel, you just behold with your eyes, listen with your ears and
set thine heart upon all that I will show thee, because what I'm about to reveal to
you is the pattern of all creation.
And once having beheld that pattern of all creation, you will now be endowed with prophetic
vision.
Because you asked me about time.
Well here's the thing.
All these numbers govern the tempos, the tempos, the cosmic tempos, right?
That's a much thought.
If you understand the cosmic tempos, you are now in a position to understand what has happened
before and what is going to happen.
Because you understand the cycles.
Zechariah, this is a good one.
I lifted up my eyes again and looked and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand.
And I said, with or goest thou?
And he said unto me, to measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breath thereof and what
is the length thereof.
Now why is it important to see the length and the breath of the holy city, the sacred
city that represents the manifestation of the cosmic heavens on the earth?
Well, again, it's like, because that's the beginning of seeing and understanding and
comprehending the cosmic pattern of creation.
And was it Jerusalem that was measured in the actual size of it times a certain sacred
number actually measured the circumference of the earth?
We can talk about that in a minute, yes.
Okay.
Sorry for my layman interjections, but...
Well, we're getting there.
Okay.
Yeah, you are.
You guys are holding my hand and walking me through it.
From the New Testament, and there was given me a read like unto a rod, and the angel stood
saying, rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and them that worship therein.
Now what do you think that St. John the Divine is going to discover or learn when he measures
the temple, the altar, and them that worship?
Is that there is a common measurement, a common system of proportion that unites all of them.
From the person, the worshiper, to the altar itself, to the temple itself.
Now what is not mentioned here is that you can expand that to the earth itself.
And from the earth to the solar system and from that to the cosmos.
You could also go in the other direction if you've got the ability.
So then I show historic metrology, which is showing like the Egyptian reman, an Egyptian
unit of linear measure analyzed by F. H. Griffith in 1892, and by William Flinders Petrie
and A. E. Barrowman considered to be equal to 20 digits or 14.58 inches.
A. E. Barrowman in his work historical metrology refined the length of the reman to be 1.2165.
So if you take this calculator Danny, put in 1.2165, now that will be in feet.
That's the length of the reman.
So you can see that it's a little bit, now this is an ancient Egyptian unit of measurement.
The reman.
The reman.
It's a little bit longer than our foot, right?
Right.
Well, there was another unit of measurement used in Egypt called the Royal Cubit.
It was discovered by Isaac Newton in his analysis of the dimensions of the King's Chamber of
the Great Pyramid based upon the survey of grieves in 1637, which in fact I'm sure you
were well aware of, also mentioned in the writings of Herodotus in his description of
the city of Babylon.
With slight variations, the accepted length of the Royal Cubit is taken as 1.72 feet
or 20.6265.
Now put in 1.72.
Am I clearing out the 1.265?
No, no, no, leave that.
Actually, okay, here's what you're going to divide by 1.72.
1.72.
Right?
Okay.
Now, you see there's a little 1 over X button.
Oh, no, I hit equals.
Okay, you got to hit equals.
Okay, let me try this again.
Okay, let's go back to this.
1.2.
Put in 14.58 inches.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
Now divide by 20.6265 equals, what'd you get?
0.70685.
Okay, so now do you see the 1 over X because we're going to flip the ratio, the 1 over
X button.
It should be.
Oh, there's a button.
Got it.
Let's see.
Let's go.
Yep, got it.
Hit that button.
Okay.
What'd you get?
1.41471934.
Okay.
1.414, basically.
Yes.
Right?
Now, right to the right of that button, you'll see X squared.
Got it.
Hit that button.
What'd you get?
2.0014.
So, what you're looking at is the square root of two.
So, what you just did, Danny, was you showed that the ratio of the royal cubit.
The reamon to the royal cubit.
So, the Egyptians knew this.
If they drew a square, which was one reamon on the side, and you drew its diagonal, the
diagonal was the royal cubit.
For all of the time that we have been alive, the US dollar has been the primary currency,
but that may not be the case for much longer.
China is set to dethrone the dollar, and possibly much sooner than you think.
And even the world's biggest economies are already ditching the dollar for the yen.
Reaching the US currency, causing unprecedented inflation and crashing markets.
And if that wasn't enough, this paves the way for the government to take total control
over all of your money with a new digital dollar.
Now is the time to take total control of your money and not let your life savings become
a casualty of the currency wars, and you can do it using the only precious metal dealer
that I trust, American Hartford Gold.
They will show you how to protect your savings and retirement accounts by diversifying your
wealth portfolio into physical gold and silver.
With the finest products, amazing customer service, and a buyback commitment.
But you don't have to take my word for it.
American Hartford Gold has a five star rating from thousands of reviews and an A plus from
the Better Business Bureau.
American Hartford Gold supports content like this that is committed to bringing you the
truth.
And if you tell them I sent you, they'll give you up to $5,000 in free silver on your
first order.
So call them now.
Click on the link in the description or call 855-679-1326.
Text 855-679-1326 or text concrete K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E to 655-32.
Again the phone number is 855-679-1326 or text concrete to 655-32.
Now back to the show.
So that exercise we just went through, if you draw a square and it's one reamon, which
is, as it says here, say 14.58 inches, it's diagonal is going to be the royal cubit.
And that was the basis of their measuring system, was that dynamic relationship of a
square and it's diagonal.
Now the royal cubit was used, like I said, by Newton in his analysis of the King's Chamber.
It's also the thickness of the socle.
That's right.
Yeah.
That the pyramid sits on.
Well then if we jump forward, the Palestinian cubit, the knowledge of the Palestinian cubit
survives in the writings of Epiphanias, a bishop of Constantin and Cyprus, who wrote
a treaty on weights and measures in AD 392.
It conforms to the cubit of the altar, as mentioned in Ezekiel 43.13, that is the cubit
and the handsbreath.
The Palestinian cubit is generally taken as 25.284.
Put 25.284 in your calculator.
And I'll do the same here, 25.284.
Got it.
Now we're going to divide that by the Riemann, which is 14.58 and hit equals, now hit your
X squared key.
Three.
Three.
So it's the square root of three.
So in other words, imagine this now.
Now the Palestinian cubit is used roughly in Palestine area about a thousand years
after the royal cubit and Riemann are being used in Egypt.
Picture now.
You start with a Riemann, you draw a square.
Take its diagonal, that gives you the royal cubit.
Use that to get your root two rectangle and take its diagonal.
That diagonal is now the Palestinian cubit.
Got it.
Got it.
Got it.
Got it.
So now we've got the Roman pace, the origin of the Roman mile.
Now you know the mile comes from the pace, right?
You know what a pace is?
That's just like a human walking?
A human walking.
Now imagine if you're going to pace out, you've got a field and you want to know roughly how
big it is.
You don't have a measuring tape.
You figure, oh, it's about an acre, but I got, I'm going to pace it out.
Yeah.
So in the old days, and you're a surveyor, a builder, an architect, you're going to
know pretty precisely the length of your pace, because that's a common way of determining
land measures.
You pace things out initially.
You know, we didn't have transits and builders, you know, instruments back then.
We used things like ropes and chains and...
Back then.
What are we talking about back then?
God, anywhere before, you know, from a few hundred, hundred, hundred and fifty, two hundred
years ago.
Okay.
Pacing something out.
Okay.
How many paces?
Now, if you're pacing something out, you know that you're going to quickly learn that you...
It's much easier if you're counting every other step than every step.
Right.
You don't count left, right, left, right.
You go right, right, right, and you count, say, every time you're right foot hits the
ground.
Okay.
Now, if you do a thousand of those, that was the origin of the mile.
We've been using the mile for that long.
Oh, mile goes back.
Everybody, I mean, you find the mile, think about this.
A thousand paces, so you had a Roman mile, which was a thousand paces in Rome.
Now, think of the word mile and think of the word mill, which means a thousand.
A thousand, that's right.
Millennium, yeah.
Yeah, like a millennium.
A millimetre, one thousandth of a metre.
Ah, okay.
So that's the origin.
The mile and the mill, it's a thousand.
So the original meaning of the mile was a thousand paces.
Now, our mile, how many feet are in our mile, Danny?
I'm holding you conspicuous before the entire world at this moment.
A thousand.
A thousand.
Feet.
Feet?
I don't know.
Uh, let me guess.
Somebody, do you have your ruler with you?
Ten thousand?
That boy needs his wrists.
Ten thousand?
Hey, I failed, Al, delivering it.
Okay.
Ben?
Uh, I will claim the metric system, unfortunately, is the basis for my education.
Oh, no.
We can cut down some small...
Small get-out-of-jail card for you.
Okay.
Now, this is...
You got an excuse.
I don't.
Small.
Our fathers and our grandfathers all knew this, I think, certainly farmers and builders
and people like that who live close to the land knew that our mile is 5,280 feet.
Oh, okay.
Now, if you divide 5,280 feet by a thousand, you'll get the length of the pace upon which
our mile that we use today is based, right?
So 5,280 feet, divide that by a thousand.
That means that each pace was...
5.28.
5.28.
Good.
Right.
Yes.
5.28 feet.
You should...
If you had your notebook there in class, I would be getting you to write that down.
5.28.
5.28.
Okay, you got it.
5.28.
Now, you look at the Roman pace here and it's equal to 4.86 feet.
So they were shorter.
They were shorter.
You got it.
Now, our mile is part of the imperial system that goes back to ancient Britain.
Now, I've looked at the surveys of Stonehenge, for example, and if you take the big outer
ring of Sarsenstone circles within a few inches, it's 105.6 feet in diameter, right?
And if you look at the Sarsenstone uprights, which are the big stones forming that outer
circle, that ring, there are lentils on top.
And those lentils are an average length of 10.56 feet.
10.56 times 10 is 105.6.
Think about that.
Okay, so if you were to draw a ring on the ground, a circular ring that's 105.6 feet
in diameter, Stonehenge would fit within a few inches within that ring.
Now, the fact that they were using a consistent unit of measure is verified or confirmed by
the fact that the distance, if you go around that ring, and there's 30 uprights, which
are most of the surveys and studies assume that there was originally 30 of those uprights.
And several of the lentils, the horizontal lentils that cap those uprights are still
in place.
Their average length is 10.56 feet.
So, think 10.56 times 10 gives you that ring.
Okay.
Okay, got that?
Got it.
Now, what's 105.6 times 100?
105.6 times 100?
No, times 50, I'm sorry.
528, 5,280?
Our mile.
What the fuck?
Yeah.
So, what does that suggest?
It doesn't prove, but it suggests that the builders of Stonehenge were using a system
of measurement from which we derive our mile.
When do we think Stonehenge was built?
Well, it's neolithic.
Yeah.
I mean, talking like, I think it's, what, 5,000 BC or somewhere like that, maybe even
earlier?
Some, yeah.
It's old.
At least neolithic.
At least neolithic.
Yeah.
So, it's 100 to 5,000 years ago, at least if not older.
Yeah.
Okay.
This suggests that our mile is that old.
And they were using, if they had a mile of 5,280 feet, and you divide that by exactly
50, they now draw a ring on the ground, and that's the diameter of the Sarsenstone circle
at Stonehenge.
And you divide that by 10, and that gives you the average spacing of the Sarsenstone
uprights.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's bizarre.
Now, these are the kind of things we look at in the course that I do.
Okay.
So, when we look at the Roman pace, which is basically almost Middle Eastern, right?
It's, you know, in Italy, not Middle Eastern, but it's Mediterranean, we'll call it Mediterranean.
We're looking at roughly 2,000 years ago when the Roman pace was in, and in Rome, it was
well known that you had the city center, and the Roman mile was 1,000 paces out from the
city center.
Okay.
So, if we look at here, 1,1000th of the Roman mile is equal to eight states of 607.5 feet.
Now, that state is where we get our term stadium from.
Yeah.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Now, a stadium was the distance around, you know, so the British version of the stadium
was called the furlong, and we don't know how old the furlong is, but it was apparently
very ancient.
Now, the only place that I know of where furlongs are still used today is Wehrman.
Race tracks.
Yeah.
Race tracks.
Oh, horse race tracks.
Yeah.
The furlong to the ancient Britons was 660 feet.
660 feet is 1 eighth of a mile.
Try it.
660 times eight.
Let's see if you get 5,280.
5,280.
There you go.
So, furlong was 1 eighth of a mile.
What's the origin of the furlong?
I don't know.
It's old.
It's old.
But see, that's more confirmation that the mile that we use today has ancient roots.
Now, here's something else that's interesting.
We talked earlier about the earth that we live on is an oblate spheroid.
Indeed.
And we know, as Ben was talking about, the equatorial diameter is 26 miles greater than
the polar diameter.
Right.
Right?
It varies from.
Now, why is that?
It's spinning.
Think about any spinning system, the centrifugal force is going to throw the mass of it towards
the equator of the spin.
And thank that God that it does, because otherwise conditions on the surface of the
earth would be so chaotic that it's highly doubtful that any kind of higher life ever
could have evolved.
So if the earth was a perfect sphere spinning, how would that disrupt the earth?
How would that disrupt everything, like the earth across the oceans?
Well, there would be, see, this equatorial bulge acts as a stabilizing flywheel.
Okay.
Right?
And the earth is not perfectly rigid.
But it's interesting that you said if the earth was a perfect sphere, if the earth was
a perfect sphere, what would be the measure of that sphere that would then have the same
volume as the actual earth?
Well, the actual earth varies from 7,926 miles at the equator, 7,900 miles at the polar
diameter, so a difference of 26 miles.
So what that means is that if you were, if you're standing at the equator, you're 13
miles farther away from this earth's center than if you were standing at the north pole.
Right.
Right.
And it also, you could think of it this way, if you traveled from the equator to the one
of the poles, you're going downhill 13 miles.
Oh, my God.
Right?
Now, let's think about this.
Okay.
So what would be, I'm glad you brought up the idea of the perfect sphere, because, again,
when we're talking about creation manifest in three dimensions, and the idea of sacred
geometry is that behind the actual manifested three-dimensional physical universe is this
template, the template of geometry.
In that template of geometry, you've got idealized numbers, okay?
Now the idealized number of the earth would be, what you just said, what would be the
size of the earth that was a perfect sphere, let's say that had the same volume as the
actual earth?
Yes.
7,920 miles.
If we squished it into a perfect sphere.
If it was a perfect sphere, same volume as the actual earth, 7,920.
Get that number in your hands.
I'm going to write that down.
7,925.
7,900.
That's the future reference.
Okay.
Got that number in your head.
Got it.
Okay.
Let's go back to the furlong that we were talking about.
Okay.
Furlong, we agreed, was one-eighth of a mile, 660 feet.
How many inches in 660 feet?
It's going to be the same number.
7,920.
What the fuck kind of sorcery is this?
Wow.
Now let's think of what we just saw here, okay?
We said the earth 7,920 miles, miles, right?
We've already determined that the mile is a human derived unit of measurement based
upon paces.
You go and you walk out 1,000 paces on the surface of the earth and it's 5,280 feet.
Whoever developed the mile knew the circumference of the earth.
Well, I'm not going to go make that claim, but there's something weird going on here.
Now picture, there's two things.
When you say that the mile is 5,280 feet, each of those paces is 5.28 feet.
So think, you've got a ratio.
The ratio is the length of the human pace to the human foot.
That's ultimately the ratio of our mile.
The pace to the foot, 5.28 feet, and 1,000 of those paces is our mile that we use today.
Key number, that ratio, 5.28 feet, okay?
You got to keep that in mind.
And I know that, you know, you have to work with these numbers for a while before they
become embedded as part of your consciousness, part of your framework, your conceptual framework
of reality.
You just saw that the fur long, 7,920 inches.
So think of this, you've got a fur long, 660 feet.
Let's say you lay that out on the ground and I have actually done this, find a nice big
open field or parking lot, lay out 660 feet.
Then you mark out 1 inch, which, oh, by the way, is the width of your thumb originally,
your digit, that's where the inch comes from, right?
Put your thumb on a piece of paper, draw a hit on either side, you've got your inch.
That's a derivation of the inch.
So all of this is connecting human anatomy, you've got your inch, you've got your foot,
you've got your pace, you've got your qubit, right?
So now this is all linking the geometry to the human anatomy.
So now, here's the final thing that you want to get in your mind, the relationship.
The fur long is to the inch as the earth is to a mile.
Got it?
Got it.
Okay, let's go further with this.
Are you ready?
I mean, this is, we're just kind of like got one leg down into the rabbit hole.
What I like to do is I like to get people that they put one leg in, then two legs and
while they're peering down, I come up behind them, I give them a push.
Let's go.
There you go.
Okay, so in the book of Revelation, we were talking about the prophecy there, St. John
the Divine.
He's met with the angel with the line of flax and the measuring reed and he's got to measure
the holy city and all of this.
Then later on, it's describing his vision of the holy city and it says the city lieth
four square and the length and the height and the breadth of it are equal.
What would that suggest to you?
Four square, but that's got length, it's got height, and it's got breadth.
Cube.
Cube.
A cube.
Okay.
12,000 fur longs and the city lieth four square and the length and the height and the breadth
of it are equal 12,000 fur longs, okay?
How far is that?
Put 12,000 in and we know that a fur long is 660 feet, so go 12,000 fur longs.
7,920,000.
Now just look at the first four digits.
7,920.
Does that look familiar?
Yes.
Yes.
So now that's a lot of feet.
Let's put that into some ratio.
That's the earth.
Yeah.
That's the measure of the earth times a thousand.
Now let's put that, but that's feet.
We just converted that to feet.
Got it, okay.
That's why it's so much.
But who can picture what's 7,920,000 feet?
Let's convert that to miles.
Okay.
So you're going to divide by 5,280.
1,500.
1,500 miles.
Now what's the ratio between that and the actual earth?
So here's what, you've already got that in your calculator, right?
1,500.
Yep.
So that'll put 1,500 on top, divide by earth, 7,920 on the bottom.
Now you're going to flip that by hitting 1 over x, so did you put the big number on
top and the small number on bottom?
Okay.
I just did the divided.
That's gave me 0.18.
Okay.
And then hit 1 over x.
Okay.
1 over x.
5.28.
What in the fuck is this, Randall?
I'm telling you, okay, so.
It's all connected.
Yeah.
In other words, there's a whole set of ratios and proportions.
Yes.
Embedded in creation itself.
And whether we're talking sacred scripture and prophecy, whether we're talking architecture,
whether we're talking art, whether we're talking growing things, whether we're talking
about the great temporal relationships, time cycles, we're going to find the same numbers,
the same ratios at work.
So this was sort of your introduction into the sacred architecture of reality.
When you begin to see these connections across time and space from one level of phenomena
to another level of phenomena, and it was the basis for prophecy, and here's why.
If you, if everybody you knew only had a memory that went back six months, but you had a
memory that went back a full year or more so that you saw and you knew, like imagine
this, I use this analogy in the whole climate change scam that's going on.
If you started tracking climate change, and you'd started looking at daily temperatures
and you had no memory of what came before, and you started keeping your temperatures
on March 1st, and then you go through March every day.
Some days it'll be a little warmer, other days it'll be a little cooler, but by the
time you get to April, May, June, you're going to see a definite upward trend, aren't you?
Now if you don't have any memory of before March 1st, you're going to think, oh my God,
this temperature that I'm seeing now in June is unprecedented, but somebody comes along
that whose memory goes for multiple years, and I say, well no, no, this is normal.
This is part of the normal cycle, right?
But the difference between that you, let's say, who only goes, whose memory only goes
back to March 1st, and this other person who knows that it's cyclical, who knows that,
yeah, it's going to get hot, it'll be hot in August, then guess what, it's going to
start cooling off again.
And then by December and January, the world is going to be, your world that you inhabit
here is going to be a very different place.
That person is a prophet.
The prophet is the person that knows the grand cycles, and knows where we are in those cycles,
and therefore they are able to say, yes, in the future, this is going to happen.
Now, say for example, I grew up in Minnesota, okay, so every year it's like when is the
first freeze going to occur, when is the first thaw going to occur in the spring?
Well, we don't know the exact date and time, but we certainly know the window, right?
The same with prophecy, you know, you're not necessarily going to know the exact date and
time that something is going to happen, but you're going to certainly know the window
within, the window of probability within which that's going to happen.
And that's what separates the prophet is the person that has the long view and understands
the cycles and where we are within those cycles.
So if you're in Minnesota, I guess the date would be for the first freeze would probably
be somewhere around mid-October.
So as you're coming up the first second week in October, the prophet is going to know that
that first day of freezing is imminent.
They may not know the exact date and time, but they know it's imminent.
See.
And that is echoed throughout history going back to as far back to the implications that
of this sacred geometry and some of the oldest structures that we found, basically it implies
that they understood this long history.
Yes.
That's what I would read into it, yes.
That somewhere what this is showing, and I mean, we just scratched the surface of this.
I think what it's showing us is that somebody back whenever, and I would trace it right
back into prehistory, had a very sophisticated knowledge of the architecture of creation.
They understood not only the spatial relationships, but the temporal relationships as well.
And they were able to apply that in terms of sacred building, in terms of a technology.
Because it turns out, see, that the plasma energies, when you transition from a plasma
to a plasmoid, what it is is you are now confining the erratic, see, when you go from
solid, you've got electrons and neutrons bound tightly together.
Go to a liquid, they're still bound, but there's a much greater degree of freedom.
Go to gas, they're still bound, but now you've got even greater degrees of freedom.
What if you ramp up the energy even a little to the next step?
Well, now you've got a complete disassociation between electron and neutron.
Your neutron is now just an ion, and now everything is completely free to move.
How do you now begin to exploit that or utilize that?
Is you use, you create containment fields.
Those containment fields are governed by sacred geometry.
And I think there, we're looking now at the key to understanding what an ancient system
of technology that could have, a civilization could have been built upon, maybe, maybe.
Hypothesis definitely, I think, warrants further testing.
But we're interested in a very interesting time now, because now we have the potential
to actually test it.
Right.
And it is being tested as we speak.
That's a lot.
Look at the stuff Ben has been, I mean, how do you explain that?
You know, you can't really, you have to dismiss it.
And in that, what pretty much the critics are doing?
Well, yeah, yeah, it depends which element of it, but in general, it's a head-in-the-sand
kind of approach and dismissing it.
Yeah.
I mean, logical fallacies, non-withstanding, that's what happens.
But I think, this is why I'm interested in it from that perspective of could this have
been a potential root of a technology that was used, because we're seeing the same system.
We're seeing this employment of these principles, these sacred geometric principles in the architecture,
in the artifacts.
And then when you see it employed in what is a potential technology, there's an alignment
there.
Like, it's like, all right.
So they were clearly aware of and deploying these principles in their works.
And it was like a fundamental building block of what they were doing.
We see it in the sites, we see it in the temples, we see it in the objects like vases.
And then we see evidence for some form of technology.
And now it looks like there's a technology that's potentially being rediscovered that
is built using these same principles that we see employed in other aspects of these
ancient cultures.
Like, that's, it's hard to just say, well, that's just pure coincidence.
I mean, it's...
And some of these vases that you've discovered, I mean, is it true that it would take a very
sophisticated computer to replicate some of these things in the symmetry?
Well, it's, yeah, it's a bit more complex than that.
So since we last talked on the vases, the vases have always been fascinating, right?
These pre-dynastic objects.
And you can eyeball and look at ancient artifacts and see elements of precision, but it's, you're
just looking at it.
We don't truly know until we measure things.
This is Randall's talking about metrology.
It's the science of measurement.
And since we last talked, that's exactly what's happened.
We had finally had the chance to actually get our hands on some of these artifacts and
start employing some of the best metrological systems like structured light scanning, even
now in like MRI and CT machine scanning, which allows us to look at these objects, create
models of them that are accurate down to, you know, the micrometer or with structured
lights, like thousandths of an inch.
And if you're looking for a comparative measurement like a human hairs between two and three thousandth
of an inch thick.
So we're, we're like less than half the width of a human hair, like accurate to this.
And then a micrometer is like a 25th of a thousandth.
So we're measuring right down to, you know, extremely high tolerances.
And then so once you've got that model, you can start to do analysis on it and figure
out, well, what's the geometry, you know, what's the, what are the patterns we're seeing
in this?
What is the relationship and accuracy of different elements in this vase?
So, you know, long story short, we found that, A, they're, they're incredibly accurate in
terms of the geometric relationship of different parts of the vase relative to the others.
And we can, we can dive into sort of specifically what that means, but, but how it ties into
kind of what we've been talking about is that we had a, actually had a, once we created
this model, we, we'd sort of looked initially at the metrology of it and said, this is sort
of astonishingly well made in terms of like the vase itself is, is oblate.
Like you can't make do, it's not like it doesn't conform to a regular shape.
So you can't really do measurement on it.
So what you have to do is, is match geometric shapes to different parts of the vase.
So at the top, we're matching like a flat plane to the top of the vase.
And in a, in a CMM or coordinate measurement system application, we can then say, okay,
yeah, and it is also based on how many points of reference you use to match it.
So you could do it with five points of reference, which isn't going to give you a really accurate
measurement.
But with these high definition models, we're using, you know, 70, 80,000 points of measurement.
So it's a, that flat plane that we matched to say the top of a vase, it's a very accurate
representation of the top of the vase.
But then we can look at it and say, okay, so how flat is it?
So we're looking at these vases, it's within one or two thousandths of an inch of being
perfectly flat.
But once we've got that top of the vase, we've now, you can kind of now use that as a, as
a, as a comparison or a, a relative measurement for other parts of the vase.
So you have now, like, think of it as an x-axis.
You've got the top of the vase gives you your x-axis and we looked at the vase and we said,
well, let's match, say a cylinder, you're matching regular geometric shapes to parts
of the vase, things like cones, cylinders, spheres, torus, toruses, toroids, things like
that.
So in the neck of the vase, so you have a top, you've got the mouth of the vase, we
can fit a cylinder to the mouth of the vase.
And you, again, using 60,000 points of reference, so it's very accurate.
You can now do geometric operations on that cylinder.
You can look at, okay, how cylindrical is it?
Like how perfectly does that vase neck represent that shape?
And again, you're within, you know, single digits of a thousandth.
But then this is where it got interesting on the metrology is you can now look at, all
right, so because it's a cylinder, we can define the centerline.
We know where the centerline is.
How perpendicular is that centerline relative to the top of the vase?
Think of that as like, like a y-axis, I guess, z-axis.
And turns out we're within, again, like a single thousandth of an inch.
So it's perfectly, almost perfectly perpendicular.
And from there, we stepped out and, and I can show you slides in this if we want to
maybe get into some of the detail here.
But you can then match things like the bottom of the vase matches a part of a
sphere using like 80,000 points of reference.
You can, you can define where the center point of that sphere is and then match it
against the centerline of the vase.
And that's where sort of some of the precision in this object really started
to, to shine because it's, you know, you're within these single digit
thousands of an inch, which, which tells you a lot of, a lot of things about the
accuracy of how it was made, the regularity of the shapes.
And it's just leagues beyond anything that is achievable by hand.
I mean, we're talking about tolerances that aren't really perceivable by hand or
eye and it's stuff that's done in rose granite.
And it's just, it's remarkable engineering, but that's, it was kind of just the
beginning of the rabbit hole of what, what happened after that, because we released
the, and I'm happy to, we can go through those, that detail.
I think when we, maybe when we talk, um, in the next day.
Yep.
So what we did then is we actually, we said, we released the model.
We sort of open sourced this date.
And we said, all right, so we found some remarkable aspects of this vase.
Let's, here's, here's the STL.
You can, you can go to my website, download this model of the vase and do
this analysis for yourself.
And we, we had a Danish cryptographer download it.
And he started looking for patterns in the, in the vase.
And he, he's a mathematician and cryptographer.
And he started to find some really remarkable things.
And this is where the sort of the sacred geometry element comes in.
So he was looking for geometric patterns in it.
So he discovered a number of things.
Firstly, by finding out that, that some of the patterns that are related or drawn
from this, these sacred geometric exercises, things that Randall was showing,
one of those is, is something called the flower of life grid.
It's a series of interlocked circles.
And he found that, that elements of the vase were derived or could be matched to
flower of life grids.
There's a couple of different sizes, that the inner diameter of the vase and
then the top and the bottom of the vase and the outer diameter of the vase all
match. There's, there's two different flower of life grids that it matches.
And it was kind of like a starting point.
And then, then he, he, he, he found that like a primary,
I guess, unit of measure that seems to have been involved in the design of the
vase is the, is the, the radian.
So a one radian angle, which is, it's a, it's a simple way to rip radians.
It's an easy way to represent an angle.
It's a little more elegant than the way we use 360 degrees.
It's if you take, you know, a circle, you take its radius,
you apply the length of that radius to the circumference of the circle.
You like cut that out.
The, the angle that it forms in the center of the circle is a one radian angle.
So you have like, you know, half a circle is essentially pie radians.
So that this, and there's two pie radians in a circle.
So you can express any angle as a, as a fraction or as a part of a number of radians.
Right. Right.
So the one radian angle is used to derive a number of features on the vase,
the placement of the handles, the dimensions of, and the curvatures of
the sides of the vase at the top and the bottom.
It's, it's, it's a fundamental principle in its, in its construction.
Further than that, he, he found that all of the curvatures of the vase,
and now you're talking about curves like, you know, because these vases are shaped
like, like this, right there.
So all of the curves are essentially, you know, sections of circles.
They're like the circles, kind of the main primitive that's used in its construction.
But, and all of the curves in the various different little places on the handles at
the base of the vase, at the top of the vase, and at the neck.
You're talking about circles or sections of circles that have radii
measuring from 42 millimeters at the, at the high end, down to like 1.1 millimeters at the bottom.
And so you're talking about a circle with a radius of just over a millimeter.
All of those radii's of, of specifically those circles that, that those, the radii's of those
circles, they all match a specific algorithm that he discovered in this vase.
And it's only those radii that match this, something he called the radial traversal pattern.
So it's, it's every curvature that's used in the vase was only, it, it all matches a
single algorithm. If there were different sized radii's, they wouldn't match this pattern.
We don't see that. So each of these curvatures are related to each other through this single
algorithm. Effectively, what you could do is represent the vase mathematically with this
algorithm. So we thought, hmm, that's interesting, right? So we went into CAD and he said, let's
create a vase model based purely on this algorithm. So let's, let's build one from scratch,
just using this algorithm and then compare it to the model of the vase. So he did this.
And then he compared the model of the vase to this model that he'd created just using the,
the radial traversal pattern, the median deviation of, of measurements between the vase
and the, and the, and the pattern that he'd created using the mathematics was, was, was
something like two micrometers. Whoa. So it was, yeah. So this is it. If you scroll down,
abstraction set and granted, yeah, if you scroll down a little bit, um, did I see a
vesica there? Holy sh. This is what you were showing us earlier, Randall. Yeah. If you
keep going, I think this is the second article that he wrote. So here's, this is the, the radial
traversal pattern. These are the radios of these circles that fit it. And so you can,
essentially what Mark found, this is Mark's article, and I'm happy to show more detail onto this.
It's, I'm just trying to, Mark Vist, he's the Danish cryptographer who did the work on it.
Uh, so it's, you, you have a couple of things to consider. One is that there's, there's like
12, 12 degrees of mathematical interrelationship between the, the, the curvatures that are used.
So the different sizes of circles, uh, and those radiuses that, that are used to construct the
vase. And there, you know, there are, it's only those, like if you had different sized curves,
like different circles that were used to create the curves, it wouldn't fit this pattern. We
wouldn't see it. It's not an accident. This thing, it seems like, and you can express the
vase mathematically and it matches. And if you scroll down a bit, he talks about the median
deviation. Go up, go up a little. So yeah, so it's the median radial deviation is nine micrometers.
So that, that is, that's the comparison between the, the CAD generated model that's built on
maths and the actual vase model, which is, which is basically you're talking now in measurements
that we don't know if it's imperfections in the vase or imperfections in the scan,
because we're down close to the tolerance of the scan itself. This is, it's, it's like it's,
it's just, it's really remarkable. Now what's interesting about that and the implication for
a potential design process is like, okay, so if you, if you can admit that this thing was designed,
it wasn't, it's not an accident. You don't get 12 degrees of mathematical interrelationship
as an accident in this vessel. We can reverse engineer its features to show that there's an
equation that can be used to, to demonstrate the vase. So maybe it was designed mathematically.
So how do you, how do you, how do you do this? How do you go from a design to output? Now,
can you design this vase on paper? You might be able to do like, you could probably draw it out
if the, if the paper was the size of this room, you could scale it up, but you try drawing,
imagine trying to draw a circle or a curvature of a circle that has a radius of 1.1 millimeters.
You know, that's, we're not, you can't do that, right? And even if you draw it out on a piece
of paper, you've still got to scale that thing down to somehow generate an output. And remember,
we have measured this phase. It's made out of rose granite. It's incredibly precise in its
manufacturing, right? So it's not something that's achievable by hand. Whatever system was used to
manufacture it requires, you know, it's, it's, even if you grant them the use of the lathe,
it's not a simple lathe. This is a lathe that has to have, you know, very precise bearings and rods
and set screws and things like this. Like this, you're also working in granite. You have, there's
all these forces involved in trying to work this type of stone to get it down to, and to create
it this precisely to, to a degree that matches just the mathematical model that precisely.
The real trick is, is actually how do you produce output from this design? And
I think Mark's quote in this article is excellent, that talks about it. It's, it, there's really
across all of nature. I mean, there's only one phenomena that we know that can, that can do
this type of thing, which can take an input, can take, can take a design, it can take input,
it can operate and, and, and do operations on state, and then, and then translate, like,
basically do something and then provide an output. We don't know of any natural phenomena that can
do this of people or, or animals or anything like that. It's the only thing that does this
type of operation is, is a Turing machine. And Turing machines are something that, I mean,
today we call them computers, but you can make Turing machines mechanically, pneumatically,
hydraulically, electronically, which is how we do it. Yeah.
So we can create something that's perfect today if we wanted to.
Well, I think if we put out, it's one of the challenges that's out there. I would love to
see somebody make this. Some of the people that say, oh, this is a modern fake. I'm like, well,
it seems to have been very well made if that's the case. And it's also got all these mathematical
principles that are behind it. I'd love to see somebody try and make this down to the level
of precision that we see in the vase itself. But it seems like it would have required,
I mean, this is Mark's conclusion on this article is it would have required a Turing machine
to create this thing. There's no other way of doing it. In fact, if you scroll down.
How many vases have been measured to this degree of accuracy?
So it's a good question. Yeah. So we've really talked mostly about the one vase,
which we've had access to through private collection, but there have been now
probably a dozen that we've measured. And we're working on the analysis for this. But I can tell
you that purely from the metrology perspective. So the things that I mentioned beforehand about
looking at the accuracy of form and proportion and the relative perfection of say, you know,
the bottom of the vase to the top of the vase, things like that. Some of these vases are even
more accurate than this one, like they zero out on the thousandth scale. And as you see,
you also see this is like this is the divine proportion here, the golden ratio is represented
in the vase in a number of places. And these were allegedly made how many years ago?
Well, so this one is a pre-dynastic. Many of these vases that they're pre-dynastic,
as in terms of their work, they come from, or they've been found in burials that
predate the beginning of the dynastic civilization of Egypt, which was roughly
just around 3000 BC, a little earlier. Sorry, a little later than that is kind of when the first
dynasty kicked off with the men as the first pharaoh of the first dynasty.
Around 5000 years ago.
At least, I would say they're at least 5000 years old that many of these objects,
and this one in particular matches the pre-dynastic vases you'll see in museums. And
they're termed pre-dynastic because they're found in pre-dynastic burials. And they're found,
and there's a lot of contradictions there, right? Typically, they're found in these burials along
with very primitive pottery, which is always a strange contradiction to me. And because they're
found in the same burial, they'll say, well, they've come from the same period or the same
people have made them, which I think is always a very sort of strange leap to make. But most of
them were found, like 40,000 to 50,000 of them were found beneath the steppe pyramid of Joseph
at a place called Sakara, who was a pharaoh of the Third Dynasty. And he collected them,
and it's even acknowledged that in the, I guess, the Egyptologists do say, and at the Museum at
Sakara, they'll tell you that many of these were inherited heirlooms because they've got names of
like earlier rulers on them or they've, you know, so they're saying that he was collecting them up,
and he stored most of them with him. But, you know, we have some of these vases have been found
in burials that go back 14,000 years. There's a site called Toshka that's now underwater since
they built the high dam in Egypt, but it was excavated in the 1960s, and it was a primitive
burial. They found a guy in a fetal position, a skeleton curled up, and in the burial, he's,
you know, he's got this primitive handmade pottery and stone vases, like these what seem to be
precision made stone vases. I say seem to be because we haven't measured them yet. You can't
say it's precise until we've actually measured the stuff, but just the just you can kind of look
at it and see this isn't these these things aren't the same as the next thing, right? Because
you it's just a comparing the pottery, which is the clay formed pottery. These aren't pottery. These
are made from hard stone. It's not just granite. You can't spin this on a wheel. Granite, no,
it's a reductive process. You go versus, you know, pottery is kind of additive. I said, well,
it can be reductive too. You take a lump of clay, but this is extremely hard stone in a lot of cases.
You have, you know, schist, corundum, diorite, grano diorite, all sorts of types and lapis lazuli,
all types of stones right up to ones that even that contain high degrees of or high concentrations
of things like corundum, which is a nine on the most scale of hardness, a diamond being a 10,
you know, steel being a hardened steel, like six, six and a half granite, six and a half to seven,
flint and diorite, like seven and a half to eight, you know, fingernails, like a two coppers,
like a like a three. So these are extremely tough substances. And there's just these
thousands and thousands of these vases made from this material. And they're found in burials
that often have essentially pottery that are set up and made to to imitate the vases. They're even
painted to look like them. And it's hand formed pottery that isn't even spun on a wheel, like
it's literally put together by hand. They didn't have the wheel. This is this is these are some of
the contradictions. They didn't have the wheel in pre dynastic Egypt. Well, they don't even credit the
old kingdom with the use of the wheel. That didn't come until later. Like they would drag and stuff
along on sleds. Right. So they say there was no use of the wheel. So no potter's wheel,
no lathe because the lathe's, you know, fairly advanced application of the wheel.
But yet they have you have these objects that display characteristics of sophisticated technology,
mathematical design, sacred geometry. And they're buried with very simple artifacts like pottery.
You know, hand formed pottery that is that is I think clearly set up to imitate
these vases. And they even look like them. I've got a bunch of pictures here that I can show you
examples of this. When you say they painted them, you painted they painted them to look like the
texture of granite with like the color variations. Yeah, if you've got that SSD handy that drive,
you go into the vases directory in my podcast images directory. Actually, this is on Randall.
This is he's on which TV is this? He's on his on his computer. Okay. Yeah. If you go into the
podcast images directory and into vases, I'll show you some examples. There's
um, yeah, it's I think when we look at this is not specifically related to sacred geometry,
but I think when we look at the past and we look at ancient Egypt, I think we need to be
considering concepts like inheritance, renovation renewal. So if you go
displayed next to simple pottery, there's there's that's go up for imitation
to the right. Yeah, you were on it. That's it. Yeah. So it's tough to see, but but so you have here
it's just these are pre dynastic. This is in a pre dynastic section in the car museum. Oh,
yeah, they dotted it. Yeah. So you have what's these are this a precision made sort of hard stone
vase next to what is it? It's not a wheel spun, but a hand turned pottery vase that's been dotted
up to look like granite. And you see this is I saw it in the British Museum earlier this year.
I've got I've got dozens of pictures of this type of stuff. I'm fascinated by it, but
pretty clearly imitation like this is I mean, if you're in the business of making pottery vessels
and you find like a hard stone, you're doing stonework or you're probably working with limestone
and softer stone and you find a granite vase or something that's made from extremely hard stone
and it's made with perfection, you would see it. I mean, you would notice it and it would become
immediately precious. It would become an artifact that is valuable. And then you would
probably try and imitate that once it's it's it's what we do today. Like
it's human nature to do that becomes precious and then it gets buried with you and maybe it's an
heirloom or you know, your tomb gets raided by the next king and he takes it and he's buried with it.
I think that's what we're looking at. There's a huge technological jump between these two industries.
There's like a tale. It's a there's two different industries as a primitive and a and a sophisticated
industry when it comes to many of these artifacts. The tale that it tells is that this stuff came
way before. Well, I think so. I think that a lot of this the advanced stonework and the artifacts
were potentially inherited from an earlier time when with a from a civilization that had access
to more sophisticated technology and potentially even knowledge in order to be able to make these
things design and make them like we're seeing. And at the same time we're seeing because we kind
of know what tools and techniques the dynastic Egyptians use, right? We found their tools. We've
found pounding stones and we found copper and flint chisels and we found very simple sort of hand
tools and we've got scenes on the wall that show how these tools and techniques are used. Like we
see the primitive methodologies that they were they were using to make and do stuff. I mean,
and then at the same time we have a class of artifacts that very much match that description.
So be it in pottery vases or in, you know, rough statues or rough boxes or columns, we have a
we have these artifacts that match the tools and techniques of the that we know the dynastic
Egyptians used and that we know how they use them because of these scenes on the walls. At the
same time, we have another class of artifacts that doesn't seem to match that that display
signs of machining of overcuts of, you know, rapid stone cutting, we, you know, high degrees of
precision and symmetry into extremely hard stone. We've got the logistical challenges of objects
that weigh up to 1000 tons and more, you know, being moved around. So it's an insane amount of work.
Not just with the precision, but with the moving of these enormous objects.
My biggest question, I mean, there's so many big questions, but like one of the things that
always puzzles me, especially when it comes to the pottery and not only that, but the big boxes
that you find inside these pyramids that are perfectly square. Why? Why do they need to be so
precise? Well, it's an interesting question. I think the answer to that is because at some
point or originally their purpose was functional rather than ceremonial that there's a relationship
between precision and function. We use the term precision all the time in our world, right? If
you hear precision, there's precision that precision raises blah, blah, blah. The actual
understanding precision is kind of a different thing. You do not develop precision unless there's
some sort of functional return. Right. This is what Chris talks about that. Yeah, Chris done
excellent. He talks about this. And in fact, there's been a couple of really good books written
about precision and how it was developed in our modern world. In our world, it wasn't really a
concept that we employed until, I mean, the thing that started and originally at least in the industrial
world was the need for naval cannons to shoot straight, right? We used to create these cannons
by casting them. And then while they were still hot, they'd fire a cannonball out of it and go,
oh man, I hope that's going to shoot straight from now on. That's how we make it. And then we're
like, hmm, maybe if we cast it and then we actually cut out the barrel or we start to try and make
it more accurate, we might be able to shoot straighter and shoot further. And so that was
sort of the initial foray into precision. And then that was followed by the need to make
chronographers and watches and time keeps because this is essentially how we eventually even were
able to measure longitude. You have to be able to measure time accurately to calculate longitude.
And then once the industrial age came, you know, steam engines and steam power became a thing. And
so you have to start to worry about the precision engines and being able to make surfaces that
can contain pressure. And so you do this in order to get a functional return, right? And if you go
all the way up to our modern world, we have, you know, silicon processes that are down to like
seven micrometers in creating transistors where we can fit millions and millions of transistors
in complex logical circuitry down onto a footprint that's this big. And it's cost billions of dollars
to develop that capability. But we do it because there's a massive functional return. Our entire
world is built on the transistor and the integrated circuit. Everything we use from washing machines,
it all is part of it. But developing precision is extremely expensive. And you only do it if
you have to. Or if you think you can get a functional return to it. Now, if you're building a box to
throw a bull carcass into or to put a person into or something that's purely ceremonial,
you don't need precision. You color within the lines, you hollow out the inside, you slap the
lid on it, you're done. No one's supposed to ever open it up again. But if you're going to the trouble
where you are making surfaces flat to within, you know, a few thousands of an inch or making,
you know, relative surfaces just perfectly perpendicular or parallel or things that lock
to create hermetic seals. I mean, you're doing that for a reason. There must be some sort of
functional return on it. I genuinely think that that's what the boxes were for. I think some of
even some of these sites themselves may have been functional at some point. I will say also that once
you do develop precision, once you develop the manufacturing capabilities to use precision,
then precision is kind of what you get when you when you make stuff. Think about it this way,
like the industrial design on your average toaster today, right, much better than it was in the 60s,
like that it all works well, everything's aligned, the panel gaps are tiny, you press the button,
everything goes off. It's because it's designed in a computer, and it's done perfectly on a piece
of paper, and then it's executed in a system that is capable of delivering precision just because
that's how the system works. Panel gaps on cars today are much tighter than they were in the 1960s.
Everything clips together much better. It's because our manufacturing systems
are capable of delivering much more precision. Standardization won't work without precision.
That's right. Yeah. So that's also how you get to when you look at artifacts that come from the
ancient world to me, things like statues, because we see high degree of precision in statues.
We see perfect symmetry, which is an element of precision. I actually think there's an endless
number of applications for this scanning technology to start revealing some of these geometric
relationships and precision on these artifacts, but from what we do know, there's a high degree of
precision in some of these artifacts that you could really only term as being artistic. I can't
look at these giant statues of Egypt and go, well, that's functional. It's artwork. They're
perfectly symmetrical. Some of them, yeah, perfectly symmetrical. It's the ones that we've
looked at. Eyeballing the others, they look that way, but again, needs testing. But they're
precise. The measurements that we do have and the scans that we do have and the analysis that's
been done, they're precise. But I think they've been created by a manufacturing system that delivers
precision. Once you have it, that's what you get. And potentially, the vases fit that category.
I think some of the vases may well have had a functional purpose originally too. Who knows
what that could have been? I mean, there's all sorts of speculation you can make.
All right, let's take a break. I got a P. Okay.
We're back. But I wanted to ask you, Randall, what's going through your mind when you're seeing
all this stuff about these vases and the symmetry and the sacred geometry of these things?
Well, I know you've had time to review it, but as we're going through it right now,
I'm seeing your reaction. A lot of Ben's work is relatively new to me.
I've seen a couple of his presentations, so I'm still digesting it. And of course,
it's consistent with this idea that, yeah, I mean, it's just one of many different kinds of
phenomena that seem to point to some kind of a science or technology that is beyond what
mainstream academia has recognized up to this point. So, I mean, if this was a standalone
thing, you know, it probably could be, you know, even like the critics are trying to dismiss it.
But the thing is, is that it's not, it's part of a whole corpus of different streams of evidence
suggesting there's a deeper, more complex story of the human presence on this planet
and what we have accomplished. And so a big part of my work has been about, well, okay,
there's two things, two points I think that we need to make here. One is that it's not really
understood by mainstream academia, the extent to which our planet has been completely remodeled
from time to time and how severe an extent, extensive that actually is. On the other hand,
if you're looking for, if your definition of a civilization is basically a reflection of what
we have done in the last three to four centuries in creating this modern scientific based,
industrially based civilization, well, if that's what you're looking for, it may not have looked
anything like we would imagine it, it would look. In other words, if you're holding up a mirror,
trying to say look for some, some manifestation of our own kind of civilization and you don't see
that and then you dismiss the idea that there could have been civilization or a scientifically
sophisticated knowledge of nature and natural law, well, I think you're going to miss it.
We're looking for the wrong thing. Yeah, I think that we have to be open to thinking
that there may be other avenues of manifestation in the creation of what we call civilization.
That don't look anything like what we're, you know, what we now call civilization.
Graham Hancock has a great way of putting it. I like to tell people is that, you know, he says
that we have, and it's a good term, an electromechanical approach to problem solving. Like this is
in the way that our technology and our civilization has progressed. We have this
electronic mechanical approach to solving problems. There may well be other ways of
doing that. It's like, all you have to do is think about the technological progression that
we've had as a civilization in the last 100 years or 50 years and project that forward and go, well,
there's, you know, we are currently expanding into entirely other realms of technology. There's
some aspects of it, like some of this work that Randall's been talking about, we're barely scratching
the surface of yet. No doubt inside of 10 years, 100 years, a thousand years, we're going to know
more and have pursued in different angles and other paths of technology. I think what Randall's
saying is exactly right in that there are other ways to solve some of these problems. There are
other technological paths and evolutions that another or previous advanced civilization could
have gone down, which, you know, necessarily they wouldn't look anything like us. It could have been,
they could have progressed down an entirely different technological tree and solved problems
in a different way and thus resulting in something that is, looks almost alien to us.
Do we even think that, do we know or speculate if they even had something like commerce?
Like, like everything that we have is based on, like you were talking about the Silicon
Microchips is based on manufacturing, spending billions of dollars to sell billions of iPhones
to everyone around the world. It's all based on money to some extent. Like, I wonder if some
of these ancient civilizations even had anything remotely close to that?
I don't, I mean, I think anything that we would attempt to surmise about that would be speculation.
However, when we do look at, you know, ancient cultures, we do see extensive commerce, trade
networks, you know, that's one of the things discovered now about, you know, the Chacoan
culture of the Southwest. They were trading all kinds of goods and materials all the way,
like from the Hopewell culture up in the Northeast to, you know, West Coast, down to the Mayans,
maybe even into South America. So there was, you know, if we go back a thousand, two thousand years,
I mean, there's definitely evidence of, you know, well-developed trade networks going on.
And I think trade, you know, is a natural thing for people to do. And, you know, the model I
work from is, you know, the realization that when we go back to some of the catastrophes,
like the most powerful catastrophe of the last, in my opinion, perhaps as, you know, maybe five
million years, is the Younger Dryas and the events around the Younger Dryas. And we know
kind of we can, as our yardstick, we can basically use habitat loss as a measure of how extensive
a catastrophe would be. And then we can measure habitat loss by looking at species extinction,
because particularly when you're looking at the top of the food chain, you're looking at,
you know, the larger species require more habitat. They require more time for generational turnover.
And when we look at the mass extinction of species at the Younger Dryas, we're seeing
half of the megafaunal species on Earth get wiped out. I don't think necessarily it was one
single of event, but it was a cluster of events that occurred that ultimately brought the planet
out of the depths or the grip of the Great Ice Age into this interglacial age that we find ourselves
in. Now, that transition involved the loss of roughly half of every species of animal on Earth,
over about a hundred pounds in body weight. That is an enormous extinction event. Now,
it doesn't compare to some of the great extinctions in Earth history, like the Cretaceous Tertiary
dinosaur extinction event, which wiped out perhaps 70 to 75 percent of all species.
And that's what we were looking at with the picture of the diagram of the crater impact earlier.
That was, that's right, about 66 million years ago. Okay. Or even worse, the Permian Triassic
extinction event that wiped out perhaps 90 percent of all species, terrestrial and marine.
The extinction event of 13,000, say the Younger Dryas extinction event, wiped out about half of
the megafaunal. So we're talking about the top of the food chain. It barely touched marine
species, for example. Most marine species came through unscathed. Most of the smaller
creatures, mammals, you know, came through. Because for one thing, they require far less food,
they require less territory, quicker generational turnover times, quicker time from bringing in
newborns up to, you know, that they can survive on their own, the viability. Whereas the larger
species, you know, all of those are different. You know, you got to have more territory, more food,
generational time, turnover time is slower. You know, it takes much longer to bring the
young up to where they can survive on their own. All of that, all of those factors play in.
And all of that would be a function of the loss of habitat. The loss of habitat requires means
that there's not as much food for them to eat. And what we see is that half of the species
that went extinct during the Younger Dryas, or close to it, there's some evidence that
species, some species were already on their way out. Prior to the Younger Dryas, I think that is
because we were getting into a series of environmental catastrophes. I don't think, see, a lot of the
critics are dismissive of the whole catastrophe scenario, because they have an oversimplified
model in their mind. It wouldn't have been a cosmic impact, because that would have been a
single event. And I don't even, I disagree with that. I think that you, in fact, the evidence
suggests that the nature of the cosmic environment is such that from time to time, there could be
periods of clustered bombardment. And as a consequence of that period of clustered bombardment,
there could be a whole host of secondary consequences.
I love your analogy of this driving down like a highway, going through a busy city intersection
versus like driving through the desert. Yeah. Or at 2 a.m. at night versus 5 p.m., you know.
Exactly. So it's not only a fact, it's your timing and it's your geography, where, you know,
if you're out there driving down that country road, that's geography. Now, if you've got an
intersection and you're going, it's a busy intersection at 5 p.m., but at 4 a.m., you know,
it's not so busy, your probabilities of having a catastrophic collision are going to be much
greater if you're crossing that intersection during heavy traffic. And that's exactly the
model that we can use to describe, you know, the hierarchy of cometary disintegrations
and how they will litter their orbital pathways, particularly, I mean, the ones that intersect
the Earth. And in the early stages of cometary disintegration, the debris of that disintegration
is going to be clustered or clumped. So if the clump is on the other side, when the Earth is
crossing that orbital path, low probability. If the clump is right there, higher probability.
And then, of course, through time, that clump spreads out. And now your probabilities are
going to be relatively constant, but it's still going to be there. And that's like the torrid
system now. Right. The torrid meteor stream that we crossed through twice a year.
That's right. And what I was asking before we started, too, was, is there any evidence of
during that great year of 27,000 years when the Earth is going all around the equinox,
is there a time where we go through, during that 27,000 year period, is there a time frame where
it's more probable to go through more meteor streams? Okay. Well, okay. So it's actually closer
to 26,000. Okay, that's sorry. Okay, it's okay. We forgive you, Danny.
See, you don't want to ever take another. Ben's secretly trying to hit the salt with
while we're talking over here. We can't let him. Best time I caught it by myself.
Yeah, I'm awake now. Want some Randall? Don't be shy.
This is not a refreshing. I want to get something. I am today without taking risks.
Whoa. Whoa. Oh, God. Sorry, that blew my ears out.
Smelling salts. So this is what, this is what, okay, like when the women used to faint away
and they had their fainting couches and bring them around, bring them around. This is what
they were using. Probably. So have you ever watched boxes get knocked out? It's like, work up.
Have you ever? Yeah, exactly. Have you ever seen hockey, a hockey match or like a football
match where these guys get the concussions or they get hit really hard and they're sitting on
the sidelines and the medics will come over and they'll crack this little like thing right in front
of their nose and they're like, they wake up. Yeah. That's the same thing. Oh, that's what this is.
It like, it like jolt your nervous system and it wakes people up out, it wakes people up after
they get knocked unconscious. Where do you get this? I think it, let me see. Is it legal? Yeah,
it's legal. It's jujimufu.com. J-U-J-I-M-U-S-U-S-U-M-U-P-R. I might have to get that from you here.
It's good shit. Sorry before we got off from the, what were you asking me? Oh, okay. So the,
here's the thing. The, I probably should pull up a visual. It helps so much to try to, okay,
so this right here represents a full processional cycle. Okay. Okay. Usually rounded off to 26,000
years and current measurements of the rate of pre, pre, not pro, get this straight everybody,
pre-session, not pro-session. Okay. Why is it called that pre-session as opposed to pro-session?
Well, because if you go out, oh, is Ben waving? Ben knows. Ben, do you want to answer this? Well,
it's a pre-session because it proceeds backwards through the Zodiac. Yeah. Because it's backwards
through the pre-session. Now, what do we say? Well, if you go out and you begin to look at all
planet, so first let's start with the sun, go to the moon, then go to the planets. Everything is
moving from west towards the east. Like if you go out and you stand and face the south, right?
East is going to be on your left, west is going to be on your right, and you're watching the moon
from night to night. It's going to be moving towards the east. Okay. If you watch the sun from
day to day and month to month, it also, if you, if you were able to like blot out the sun momentarily
and see the backdrop of stars, you would see that it's moving against the backdrop of stars
almost one degree per day, and it's moving towards the east. If you look at the planets
moving, you'll see the same thing with the exception of retrograde motion.
If you're facing south, you're saying. If you're facing south in the northern
hemisphere, that's the simplest way to do it. Okay. Planets do what's called retrograde motion,
which is not, it appears, it's a visual illusion. It appears that they're backing up in their orbits,
but they're not really. It's only something that occurs when the earth is lapping the planet.
Other than that, everything is moving towards the east. However, the vernal equinox,
which is the, the intersection of the two great cosmic planes, one, the plane of the ecliptic,
which is Earth's orbital plane, two, the celestial equator, which is the Earth's equator
projected into space. Now, the thing you've got to realize, oh, I'll use this straw. Perfect.
Okay. Imagine this is the Earth's axis. Well, the Earth's axis is not perpendicular to its orbital
plane. Like, let's suppose that Ben's head is the sun and the earth is going around, right?
Yes. Yes. Okay. So there's a, there's a plane of the ecliptic that would say coincide with Ben's
nose. Yeah. All right. Okay. Well, the Earth's axis is tilted 23 and a half degrees. Right.
And it's going around and that's what gives us the seasons, right? Because here's, let's say,
this, this would be winter. The northern hemisphere is tilted away from the sun.
That's further in the summer. Summer. Now, it's all right. Got it.
These two are the equinoxes where day and night are of equal length. Okay. Now,
Earth's axis is not forever fixed in that orientation. Right now, the Earth's axis is
pointed towards Polaris, the North Star. Half a cycle ago, it was over here pointed to,
to Vega. That was the North Star because it's doing this. Actually, I should be going this way.
Yep. It's doing this. Right. And it takes 26,000 or a little bit less than 26,000 years to do this.
Okay. The currently measured rate. That's the great year. That's what the ancients called the great
year. The current rate been measured by astronomers is right at 50 arc seconds per year.
What does that mean? 50 arc seconds per year. Yeah. Okay. So you know that every circle
is divided into 360 degrees. Right. Every degree is divided into 60 minutes,
just like an hour of time on the clock is divided into 60 minutes of time. Right. One degree of arc
in a circle is divided into 60 minutes of arc. In fact, the term minute becomes because we're
talking about minute parts of a degree. Now, for most day to day uses, you're not going to need more
than that degree of precision. However, if you're like say, for example, as an astronomer and you're
wanting to measure the proper motion of a distant star, even a minute or a minute of arc is too big.
So they have gone even smaller. They've gone to a second order of minuteness, hence the second.
Right. So you go degree 360 in a circle. 60 minutes per degree. A minute. 60 seconds per minute.
Pick up your calculator. Go 360 for the number of degrees in a circle. Okay. And go 60 minutes. So
go time 60. Okay. Okay. What'd you get? 21,600? Yes. Ah, okay. Now go that time 60 for the number
of seconds in a circle. Did you get 1,296,000? I did. Yes, you did. Now I said that the current
measured rate is 50 arc seconds per year. So divide that by 50, that number.
25,920. You got it. Now. Years and a great year. Look at, look at, look at the, look at the graphic
up here. What do you see right here? 29,520. 25,920 and zero. So let's say that this is now
and we're going backwards this way through the signs of the zodiac. We go one complete cycle
that's 25,920 years ago. Now the plane of the ecliptic is divided into six, 12 equal pie slices
each of 30 degrees, right? Okay. 30 degrees times 12 will give you your 360. Okay. Got it. So
everybody knows, okay, we're talking about the age of Pisces into the age of Aquarius, right? Okay.
And for the last 2000 years, roughly we've been in the age of Pisces. What does that mean? Well,
it means that that the point of intersection, the X marks the spot of those two great cosmic planes,
the plane of the ecliptic, the plane of the equator are moving through the signs of the
zodiac at the same rate that this is turning. Okay, is this beginning to make sense? But what
we've got here is each of the 30 degree slices pie slices have rates. Look at here, we go back
to the dawn of the age of Pisces that was 2160 years before present BP is before present. Okay.
We go back to 230 degree or 60 degrees ago. That's 4,320 years before present.
You can see as we go through here, each one of these average, so if we take, you got 25,920 in
your calculator, now divide that by 12. 2160. Now 2160 represents what we would call the cosmic
month, the month of the great year. So we now conceptualize that there's an analogy between
our annual year of 12 months and the great year, the cosmic year with 12 cosmic months.
And for the last roughly 2000 to 2100 years, the vernal equinox has been moving through
against the backdrop of the constellation of Pisces. Okay, that makes sense. It's moving now into,
it hasn't gotten there yet, but it's moving towards the constellation of Aquarius.
And at some point, which people can argue about, we would then have the age of Aquarius,
roughly 2000 years that the vernal equinox is moving against that particular star field.
That would be the dawning of the age of Aquarius. And on that note, could you do a few bars from
the classic song from 1969? You have a much better voice than me, Randall. Well, maybe if we all do
it together. Okay, you start. This is the dawning of the age of Aquarius. That's it. Okay. First,
they got it, they got the astronomy completely wrong in that song, but we won't get into that.
They got the idea right. How close are we to that though? Do we know?
Well, it depends on how you define it. We're not close. We're actually three to 400 years away
from the vernal equinox, moving actually into what we now define as the star field of Aquarius.
Three to 400 years. Yes. That's pretty close in this scope. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. We're almost done
with Pisces. Yeah, the age of the fish. See, and then if you go into the mythology,
you know, look, the founding of Christianity, how much fish symbolism. Follow me and I will
make you fishers of men. I will feed you fish and bread. Yeah, yeah. Some of his disciples were
fishermen. People that drive around with the Jesus fish on the back of their car are actually
acknowledging the astronomical age that we're in. It's ichthis, the fish, ichthis, right? Okay.
And if you go to Hinduism, you had the fish incarnation of Vishnu,
fish symbolism. If you go back, then the previous one, the Age of Aries, you have Ram symbolism.
You know, you have ram-headed Sphinxes in Egypt. Moses. Moses, right. What did he,
with Ram's horns? He blew the Ram's horn. Yeah, exactly. Moses, yep. So Moses potentially is a
representation of the Age of Aries, the bull. And if there's a lot of that, and if you go back,
sorry, the ram, because I was going to say, if you go back to the Age
before you, and so if you go, what's the time for the Old Testament? So if Jesus,
let's say, represents the Age of Aries, you're talking rough intervals of, you know,
2100 years. When was, when did Jesus come in the New Testament? It was roughly 2000 years.
What was the period before that to Moses in the Old Testament? Roughly 2000 years. Right, right.
2000 BC. And if you think when Moses was introduced to us, he came down off the mountain
with the commandments, and he found his worshipers doing what, do you remember?
Worshiping the golden calf. The golden calf, which was, and because the age before the Age
of Aries was the Age of Taurus, the bull. Yeah, so now they're worshiping the bull.
Age is now obsolete. It's going past. We've got a new age with new energy symbolized by the ram.
So you can go back through, and you'll see that. And once you know that the astronomical component,
you can go back and revisit and revisit myths, and you'll see a whole other dimension of meaning
begin to emerge. Yeah, there's so many layers to this. There's a lot of astronomical phenomena
symbolized in our stories and religions, and particularly the Bible. There's a lot of them.
I mean, the whole birth and death and resurrection is essentially telling a story about what the
sun does during the winter solstice. And what is the speed of the earth moving around the sun?
It's 18.5 miles per second in its orbit. So convert that into miles per hour. So if it's
18.5 miles per second. Okay, 18.5. 18.5. And there's 3600 seconds in an hour,
you multiply that by 3600. And that'll give you the number, which is the key solar number,
one of the key solar. I quit.
This is 666. Yes. Yes. Okay, so the number of the beast, the number of the beast here is wisdom.
Let him who hath understanding count the number of the beast for it is the number of a man,
603 score and six is what it says. Yes. And it's not what most people think it is. It's
oh my God. Scratch a penny on his forehead.
So what is the significance of the number 666?
Besides that, that's where do you start? That's the question.
Well, it was typically a number associated with the sun.
And there's a lot of symbolism that would take us quite far afield.
Let's see if this, okay, the graphic is working. Okay, let me go into a larger,
there we go. All right, so notice this line north, south, that's the Earth's axis. Right.
Remember the straw that I was using. If you picture Earth's equator projected out into space,
that's the celestial equator. Okay. And then you picture the ecliptic, which is Earth's,
the plane swept out by the Earth as it's going around the sun. It's the plane of the Earth's
orbit. Now, remember what I said? There's so many motions.
Yeah. And it takes a little bit of thinking to get this integrated in your consciousness.
North celestial pole, that is where Polaris the North Star now is. If we could go back half a cycle
ago, it would be tilted over this way. And the pole would be pointing towards Vega.
And one of the things we do on our field trips, which is fun, is if it's, you know,
a clear night, we'll go out and I'll point out Polaris in the sky, the North Star.
And then you can picture the, that we're standing on the Earth and the pole,
the axis of the Earth is pointing towards that. But 13,000 years ago, it was 47 degrees
on the other side of a circle and there's Vega. So now if you can actually picture
what's happened is from Vega, 13,000 or half of that number, 12,960. Half of that number around
brings us to now Polaris, one half more cycle, 12,900 years from now,
13,000 years, the pole star will be Vega. So if you're around Danny, 13,000 years from now,
and you try to navigate by the North Star, you will get lost. I mean, by Polaris.
You'll find yourself. So this intersection is the key point right there. That's what's moving.
Here's another version of it. Again, and you see the 12 signs. So look here,
here's Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn, right, Sagittarius, Scorpio, you're coming right around.
And so right now, it's showing at zero degrees here, which is the cusp between Aries and Pisces,
which would actually have been 2000 years ago. Now it's over here. It's moved this far in 2000
years. So that intersection, again, that is the celestial equator. The plane of the ecliptic
remains fixed. Right. Okay. It's the celestial equator that's moving. Wow. I mean, there's
the obliquity of the ecliptic does have its own cycle as well, right? There is a variation in that.
That's one of the Milankovitch cycles. This is but one of several sort of oscillations that the
earth goes through that some people think may actually function as a basis for ice ages and
things like that. There's a whole bunch of them. There's like a 41,000 year cycle as well for the
obliquity of the ecliptic. And I pretty much will concur with that. I think it does affect
gradual accumulated climate change over thousands of years, no doubt.
I don't think it explains things like the Younger Dryas, though, where you have, you know,
major shifts from glacial to interglacial within a few decades. Right, right. It seems to require
something of an external injection of energy into this. That's exactly. It's a great way to put it.
Cosmic shooting gallery, I mean. So here's your homework assignment, Danny. Find a nice flat open
space, draw a big cross underground and get a chair and sit right at the middle and sit there
for one year. I mean, now you can take breaks to eat and go to the bathroom and stuff, but
come back and sit there for one year, face the south like this guy is doing here.
And what you're going to see is this changing, look, summer solstice, the sun is way up here.
Right. Winter solstice is way down here. The equinoxes, it's right in the middle.
Right. Got it. And you'll notice too, that if summer solstice, notice the path of the sun
above the horizon is much longer than it is here, isn't it? Well, hence because the day is much longer.
Now, let's do something. I'm going to go back to all these numbers. Let's see if I've got these
numbers here because you're going to see that certain numbers recur over and over and over again.
Uh, let's see if I've got them here. Yeah, I like here. Let's go to this one.
Okay. These are part of the sacred, the canon of sacred numbers. Okay. Now,
here, let's see. Here we are now. 25,920 years. Here's graphics of the star patterns. Okay. Right.
Half of this number, 25,920, gives us 12,960. Curiously, this is within about a half a century
of the Younger Dryas catastrophe, the start of it. Which one of the, where did the Younger Dryas
happen? Right here at the Cusp of Virgo Leo. Got it. Right here. Okay. It lasted for about 1,300 years,
or if we want to use the sacred number, it would have lasted 1,296 years,
which brought it right to the center of Leo. And that was the end of it. And then
we get from there into the constellation of the crab, the constellation of the twins,
and this was the post-glacial world right here. Then we get into Taurus. Something interesting
happened right here, uh, is that what I have done in this other graphic that I had up here, let's see
if I can pull it. Younger Dryas happened right in the middle of Leo. Yeah. What ended in the middle
of Leo. Ended in the middle of Leo. Just started before Leo.
This is one of the reasoning people talk about. I mean, slightly off topic, but
you know, that's if the Sphinx happened to have been a lion and it happened to be pointing towards
the east and the sunrise, it may be. That makes sense. That's one of the proofs that this suggests
it could be a marker. I mean, it might be the end of the Younger Dryas. It might be a marker for
significant events on the planet within, I mean, it's within one processional cycle.
And if it's a fact that the original Sphinx was a lion's head, the symbolism would be perfect.
Yeah. Right. Because now you're looking at the age of Leo, right?
But it may not have been, you're not saying that it would have been made in that procession, right?
It could have been made in a previous procession, right? Yeah. I mean, that's, it's possible. But
in terms of the Younger Dryas and nailing significant events, you also have other
sites like Gobekli Tepe, which seem to be a celestial calendar indicating the Younger Dryas
as well. It could be a marker for that. I mean, that's, I've heard that used as a,
as one of the potential proofs to suggest it's older. I mean, along with the erosion and
everything else, but it would be perfect symbolism for the age of Leo and then a significant event
that we know happened based on all of the old school records. Sorry for the minor tangent,
but it was just, if they would have built that after the Younger Dryas, it wouldn't explain
all the water erosion on it, right? No, it could. Yeah, it still could because it wasn't, it wasn't,
it didn't, Egypt actually was verdant and green during that period and for several
thousand years after that, it wasn't like an immediate climate change at the end of the
Younger Dryas for Egypt. They think that it became a desert, oh, I think about eight or nine
thousand years ago, somewhere in that range. There were a few thousand of years after the
end of the Younger Dryas where it was still essentially green. I mean, this whole Sahara area.
Right, okay. Yeah, so what happened? All right, where were we? What I've done here is I've gone
through the scientific literature and I've taken events, unique, I'll call them event nodes, where
things happened, right? And I've plotted them on this wheel here and you can see there is a very
interesting correlation. Like, let's see, let's go back to the cusp of Taurus Aries right here.
Make a full screen. And, oh yeah, let's do full screen.
43,000, 4,320 years ago, right? That's twice 2160. And we've got Heinrich event three
happened 4,320 years ago times seven. So if we go back to here and then we go back
seven cycles around, an event happened 30,240 years ago. What kind of event are we talking about?
Well, we're not sure. Other, what we know is that the the manifestation of the event was a
Heinrich, what's called a Heinrich event. A Heinrich event is when you have this massive,
now you got a picture. You missing a digit on that? Pardon me? 300,000 years? I'm sure that not.
Oh, no, 30,000 years. So one cycle ago then it's. Yeah, let's see 43,020.
That's 40, you got 4,320. Is it supposed to be 43,000? No, it's supposed to be, well this happened
4,320 years ago. Okay. So 30,200 years ago was Heinrich, Heinrich event three. Okay. Got it. So
if you go back to this event right here and then you go seven times around, right back to
when the Vernal equinox was standing in the same position in the sky, but seven times more than
this, you'll see that it was at 30,240. Oh, in intervals of 43,20. I got it. Yeah. I thought
you're saying in intervals of processional cycles. No. Okay. Oh, okay. Then if you go back to this
here, this is the called the onset of neoglyciation. So here's the end of the younger dryus. Here's the
beginning, actually the beginning of the younger dryus, that arrow is slightly off, slightly off.
That's arrow is actually pointing to the end of the older dryus. Okay. And 19,620 was roughly
this beginning of the younger dryus there. 12,960. Sorry, 12,960. Spoonerism. And then here is the
end of it. And then by the time you get to 10,000... Sorry, which way are we moving around this wheel?
We're moving this way. We're moving counterclockwise. Time moves this way. And if we go backwards in
time, we're going that way. Okay. Backwards in time is clockwise. Yeah. If we start here,
if we go backwards in time, we're going clockwise. Got it. So we go from here back to
say 8,640. We had a Heinrich event, again, at time seven. So it's 60,480 years ago,
there was an event. And again, it falls on the cusp of this transition. But 6,480 years ago,
you had the onset of neoglyceation. Now, what happened was during the age of cancer and
Gemini, which are these two ages right here, the planet went into what has been called the
climatic optimum, where temperatures were warmer than they are today. Now, this is well established.
By multiple lines of evidence, tree lines were higher. Sea level was higher.
You know, the younger dryus is a flowering plant that likes cold weather. It's a polar wildflower.
So in the older dryus, in Europe, in Northern Europe, you had an abundance of dryus octopitalum,
which is the plant, the flowering plant, gave its name to the younger dryus.
That went away and was replaced by warmer loving species.
They prevailed, and if you look on this graph, that's from right here, end of the oldest dryus,
and there was a sharp temperature rise. The cold loving dryus octopitalum did not like
this rise, the warmer temperature, because they were adapted to a polar climate. Well,
the polar climate came to an end and you had a warming period for half of a cycle here. And then,
very suddenly, at around 12,960 years ago, dryus octopitalum suddenly returned, the cold loving
plant. Now, that's an example of how you can use botany to determine environmental changes,
because if you go from cold to warm, plant and animal species will change. So cold times,
you're going to have certain species of animals and plants. The warm comes back,
and now you bring back in plants and animals that like warm species. Now, you can correlate
that with studies of where sea level is at. So typically, what will happen, temperature rises,
more glaciers melt, sea level rises, right? The latitude of warm weather goes, warm climate shifts
to the north, just like if we go back to the medieval warm period, say a thousand years ago,
that lasted roughly from 900 AD to 1250 to 1300 AD, sea levels higher, you had much warmer weather,
warmer climate, you had a flourishing wine industry in the British Isles, right?
Which didn't exist until genetic modifications allowed the reintroduction of
a vintner, what do you call it? Vintner grapes, wine grapes? Yeah, wine grapes into England.
That's also when Greenland was colonized by the Scandinavians during this warm period. Well,
the warm period gave way to the Little Ice Age, and then when the Little Ice Age came,
you had this expansion of polar ice, like sea ice, that cut Greenland. Now, during the medieval
warm period, Greenland, you could sail from northwestern Europe to Iceland to Greenland.
When the medieval warm period ended, the sea ice, the polar ice, extended far to the south,
it sealed off Greenland, so you couldn't sail to Greenland anymore. It almost caused the complete
extinction of all human society on Iceland, because there was trade going on, and the cold
weather, the return of cold weather drastically affected agriculture, caused food crops to spoil
in the fields, and that led to people getting hungry, and that led to famine. So, what we see
if we look at history is that the cold spells in global climate have always been far worse
than warm spells. Right. Warm spells increase the growing season. They tend to increase the
amount of rainfall. I've documented and talked about this extensively on my Cosmographia slide
show, I mean, podcast, showing that the overwhelming evidence that warm periods have been benign times
within for human society, usually associated with, like, if we go back to about 540, roughly,
AD, the onset of what is called the Dark Ages Cold Period, saw famine, it saw pestilence,
because pestilence follows naturally in the wake of famine, because people get malnourished,
their immune systems become compromised, and now you have opportunistic diseases. So,
in 542 AD, after six years of cold weather and repeated crop failures, you had the Justinian
plague, that wiped out half the population of Europe. So, now you have this cold period for
about 300 years, 400 years, and now that gives way to what's called the medieval warm period.
The growing season extended, tree lines moved up, you started getting a much wider range of
latitudes where you could grow food, you had a longer growing season, whereas during the Dark
Ages Cold Period, the population of Europe declined during the medieval warm period,
it increased. After 150 years of warmth, it had so much prosperity, had accrued,
that it allowed launching the Great Cathedral Building at the price.
Right, right.
That was precisely timed within that medieval warm period, and you can see the end of the
Great Cathedral Building era ended with the end of the medieval warm period, which occurred
between 1250 and 1300. And then in 1300, we began the first phase of the Little Ice Age,
and again, a whole series of crop failures over the next few decades, and then in the 1340s,
you had the Bubonic Plague, which again, devastated a third the population of Europe.
At that point, the Great Cathedral Building era came to an end by that time, and we went into the
first phase of the Little Ice Age. That ameliorated somewhat, right in the middle, in the 1600s,
and we had the Renaissance, and then the cold came back. That cold, which was the second phase
of the Little Ice Age, kind of came to an end between 1850, about the mid-19th century, and by
the 20th century, it was over. Interestingly, all of our measurements of modern warmth,
the baseline is the end of the Little Ice Age. So again, think of the analogy that I was talking.
Which was when on here? Well, on here, you can almost not see it, but it's right here, right there.
Got it. Okay. Right. There you've got the onset of the Dark Ages, and here you've got the onset
of the Little Ice Age. So, it's like a quarter of 2160? Roughly, yeah. Yeah. So, we go back
beginning of the Little Ice Age to 1300, in round numbers, and it didn't start everywhere at the
same time. But within a half a century to a century, it had pretty much affected the whole world.
Now, that Little Ice Age was the coldest half millennium since the end of the Great Ice Age.
Now, knowing that, and how do we know that? Well, from all these other factors that I talked about,
for one thing, glaciers around the planet expanded enormously during the Little Ice Age.
In Europe, Northern Europe, you had whole villages and farms that were wiped out by the
glaciers that had swelled up to be bigger than they had been since the end of the Great Ice Age,
11,000 years ago. Now, think about what it means if our determinations of, you know,
global warming and so on, our baseline is the coldest period of 11,000, 10,000, 11,000 years.
Just like the analogy I used earlier, if you started marking climate warmth, but you started
at March 1st, and then you get to June, well, obviously, yes. Each month, you're going to see
records being broken. See, that's what people are not being taking into account, and the scientists
that know this, some of them are pointing this out, they're being dismissed as climate deniers,
even though there is no such thing, because nobody denies that the climate changes.
Show me one professional, one scientist, one meteorologist that's denying climate change,
they don't exist. It's a completely fabricated concept to try to discredit anybody who's pointing
out that the whole climate change narrative has been manufactured, and it's based upon
certain assumptions that completely don't come out legitimately once you've examined them,
because most people don't realize, okay, well, we're measuring glacier recession
from the point at which the glaciers were the biggest they were in 10,000 years.
Exactly.
Yeah. And see, this is what's not being told, and it's deliberate. It's a deliberate deception.
How far back did some of these glacial core samples take us?
Oh, well, 400,000 years, I think at the maximum. You told me about the ice core samples.
The ice core samples, yeah.
Yeah, Greenland and Antarctic are going to be the longest record, and yeah, we can see in there that
there's massive changes. Now, there haven't been changes enough to completely melt away the Greenland
ice sheet or the Antarctic ice sheet. However, the Laurentide ice sheet that was over most of
Canada was as big as the South Polar ice sheet. The Cordy Aaron, which was over Western Canada,
was about roughly the size of the Greenland ice sheet. The Finoscandian ice sheet over
Northwestern Europe was even bigger than the Greenland ice sheet. All of that ice melted away
literally in a few thousand years, and we don't have an explanation for where did the thermal
energy come from to affect that drastic change that could cause that much ice to melt away
that quickly. And given that we don't really even have an explanation at anybody that there's a
consensus around what causes the onset of an ice age and what causes the termination of an ice age,
if we don't know that, how in the world can you claim that the science of climate change has
settled? It's ridiculous. It's ridiculous. And if somebody says that the climate, that the science
of climate change has settled, or they call anyone who questions that consensus a climate
change denier, right there those two things are telling you either they don't know what the hell
they're talking about or their phonies and their lie. I think people get lost in the politics of
this. People don't understand the history of this and people get, it's more nuanced where people
are arguing over whether humans contribute to climate change or do humans not contribute to
climate change? Of course humans do contribute to climate change. The question is how much
and how significant is that relative to the natural forces. And I argue basically we look at the
history of the climate change on earth that natural forces are overwhelmingly the dominant factors.
Right. And we talked about this a little bit on our first podcast, but the way they're measuring
the climate right now, they have these like old sensors that are like near airports or something.
Yeah. On top of Tarmac. Right. Well, there's manipulation of raw data going on too. They've
literally changed the raw measurements from the past, essentially cooling the past and warming
the present so that the trends match some of the computer models more or less. There's a guy
named Tony Heller who does some good... Yeah, he's great. Tony Heller does some good stuff.
Some good videos exposing some of the way that that's worked in order to kind of manipulate the
data such that it matches the predictions that were made, almost exactly. And it is political,
unfortunately. I mean, I always find it telling the first moment you were usually ever engaged in
some sort of skepticism around the narrative of climate change. You generally, first of all,
have to then defend yourself as saying, well, pollution bad as well. Like for some reason,
it's weird. It's like, of course pollution is bad and we should be stewards of the planet,
but that right there is telling you that it's a political argument.
There's somebody who did a study on this. I think it was Stephen Pinker who basically,
he reverse engineered people's view on climate change. And he said, basically,
all you have to do is figure out their political leanings. Yes.
And then you can figure out how they feel about climate change.
Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, so that's the point. I mean, the point is, is that the climate,
anybody who studies the climate, and I've studied it in depth for decades, knows
that the climate has changed profoundly over and over and over again.
There has never been a point which we can say the climate has remained stable.
Right. It doesn't exist. So what you're now going to tell me is that all the natural factors that
have been causing the climate to change, whether it's the sun, whether it's geomagnetism,
whether it's ocean currents or atmospheric currents or, you know, changes in albedo,
changes in the relation of the planets, which is also a very interesting theory.
Vulcanism, I mean, we could go on with the list. Are you going to tell me now,
all of those are irrelevant to non-operational anymore? And it's only because people are driving
SUVs, you know. And eating cows. And eating cows. Right. Right. And eating cows.
Yeah. Which, but we're not going to eat cows tonight. We're going to eat seafood, right?
We're going to eat fish tonight. We're going to eat fish.
Fish do not contribute to climate change that I'm aware of. Give it time.
Oh my God. But I think that the ancient peoples knew that there was a tempo of global change.
And a lot of their mythology and so on embodies their knowledge of
environmental change, climate change and so on. Because when we look back at,
at, you know, the legacy of inherited traditions from the legends and folklore
and mythology of the ancient world, over and over again, we have to recognize that there's
catastrophism is a major part of all of it. And, you know, you can start with things as
obvious as the great flood myths. You know, we're all here brought up in the Judeo-Christian
tradition. Well, you know, the great flood myth is introduced very early on within the biblical
story. Right. And of course, like flood myths from all over the world, there's always a moral,
moral component that sort of juxtaposed on it. And I think that that's sort of a natural thing.
When something like that happens, we can, we can refer to the impact, the atmospheric impact
of the Tungus, so-called Tungusca cosmic body in 1908 Siberia.
Right.
In the aftermath of that, what happened? Well, the Tungusi populace, the tribesmen lived there,
it launched a new religion and Agdi, the god of fire, descended from the sky to punish the people
for their sins and their infractions and the things, their bad behavior. So immediately,
we see in a modern context, a celestial event like that spawning a religion. Now imagine that
you have an event that's 10 times or 100 or 1000 times more powerful than just a single Tungusca
event. Obviously, yes. And when you start looking at flood stories, I mean, one of the things, you
know, that we'll be doing in Montana, Ben and I is we will be exploring landscapes that were
created by flows of hundreds of millions of cubic feet per second. We'll be exploring landscapes
that were carved and created by water flows that are 10 and 20 times greater than every single
river on earth combined. Now, if you survived something like that, yeah, it's natural that the
survivors of events on that magnitude would would look at it in theological terms and moral terms
and so on. But behind that, that veneer, that theological and moralistic veneer, I think we're
looking at very natural events that we now know we can we can document that events like this have
occurred repeatedly in earth history. And the wonder of it is in some ways is how we humans
did not go the way of the Wally mammoths. That is the wonder of it. Yeah, we did have a bottleneck.
I mean, we know there was definitely a bottleneck in both population and genetic diversity associated
with the timeframe of the younger drivers. It's kind of funny. There was a study done recently.
Antonia Zamora has done some good little short YouTube videos on it if people interested.
But it is a study that shows that there was across the world all populations of humans
almost everywhere. And these are disconnected, isolated groups simultaneously went through
a decrease in genetic diversity, particularly in male populations, actually. And it's all
associated with a period of time shortly after the onset of the younger drives. And of course,
it's the study's authors don't make a connection to, you know, the younger drives period because
it's still a debated topic, I guess, in what you'd call mainstream science. But they said that, well,
perhaps it was just some sort of somehow simultaneous change in breeding and preference
patterns between these isolated and different groups of people that resulted in this genetic
diversity. But it also coincides with this extinction event and turns out we're megafauna.
I mean, I'm certainly megafauna. Or 90% of the world's population got wiped out.
Well, it's hard to say what percentage. It wasn't that. It was a bottleneck in population and
just diversity, but I'm not sure if it was that much. Yeah, it was probably,
I mean, it could have been, I mean, we're just kind of at the beginning of piecing this together.
I mean, clearly, the human species was affected by these events. You don't have events that wipe
out half the megafaunal species on earth and not affect the other half of the megafaunal
species that survived. It's not like half the species came through completely unscathed,
but the severity and magnitude of those events completely exterminated half the other species,
right? We know, look at how close the bison, the American bison came to becoming extinct
around the turn of the century. There was only a few hundred individuals.
Now, you know, we can go to the grocery store and buy bison burger, right?
A thousand, 10,000 years from now, you could completely miss the fact that bison came this
close to becoming extinct species because it's only, you know, within a few generations,
once we made up our, you know, people decided that they wanted to salvage the species, it
didn't take long for the species to recover. So, I mean, 10,000 or 12,000 or 13,000 years ago,
a species may have come that close to extinction, but there was still enough numbers that the
species within a few centuries could completely, could, could recover. See, and it brings us to
the question of, you know, how drastically were humans affected? Yeah. And I think there's parts
of the world as well. I mean, it's not, as you were saying, Younger Drys, although it was probably
the most dramatic thing to happen to the planet in maybe five million years, it wasn't five million.
Yeah. I mean, it might have been the worst thing that's happened to the planet in five
million, certainly from an extinction perspective, but it's not, there were parts of the planet that
weren't as affected as, as badly affected as others. Certainly, North and South America were
tremendously impacted with the species that went, when extinct, we see a similar thing in Europe,
but you look at Africa or Australia, and there seems to have been much less, much less impact.
I mean, that's one of the, you know, Africa has a lot of megafauna, and you look at the,
what we estimate the age of lots of that megafauna is still going to be like two to
three million years old. Like those species also live through the Younger Drys. Australia is somewhat
similar. Australia did undergo very severe mass extinction, but it was much earlier than the
Younger Drys. Now, if you look at percentages, North and South America, both experienced about a
75% reduction in megafaunal species. So in other words, North America lost about three quarters
of the big animals. I mean, think about, think about the animals that used to be here in North
America. Four species of probocidians. You had the, the, the so-called woolly mammoth, the
Colombian mammoth, the imperial mammoth. You had mastodons. You had dire wolves. You had giant cave
bears. You had huge moose. You had giant deer. Amidilos. What? Amidilos. Giant armadillos.
Size of a false wagon bro. Yeah. Yeah. And you, yeah. And giant ground sloths. I mean,
the list was up to like close to a hundred species, right? How do we know we had armadillos that big?
Because we found our remains. Yeah. Go through Cincinnati airports sometimes of these animals.
Cincinnati airport. I went through the other day. They actually had the skeletons. They had a dire
wolf. They had a sabertooth tiger. They had mastodons. They had one of the big elk, the giant elk.
Yeah. Whoa. My God. Yeah. So short face bear. Now, okay. So North and South America both lost
about three quarters of their species. Eurasia lost a little more than a third. About 35% of
species in Eurasia when extinct by the end of the younger dryas. Africa, 10 to 12%.
So a lot of the big animals in Africa are the survivors of the Pleistocene.
People don't realize that when you start looking at rhinos and hippos and elephants and,
and giraffes and all the rest of them. So clearly the, the, the cataclysm, the younger dryas cataclysm
was not uniform around the whole planet. Right. Now, one of the other things that I've noticed
from going back into literature is that a lot of times going back to the idea of how humans were
affected, um, you had places where there was obvious settlements, had been there for centuries,
and then all of a sudden they're abandoned. The usual assumption was, well, these people got up
and migrated somewhere else. Problem is that then the other places you find evidence of human
occupation and they're gone at the same time. You find quarries all over non-glaciated North
American settlement camps and things like that where people were living, working, you find the,
the, the refuse pits, the, the middens, all of the things that was evidence that there was a,
a fairly long period of occupation and then all of a sudden it's all, it's, it ends. And that,
that termination coincides in many cases with the beginning of the younger dryas. And it's probably
more a case, less a case that they got up and moved somewhere else is that they didn't survive.
Like a quarry, uh, you know, where they're, they're quarrying flint or stones for their,
for their spear points and things are active for centuries and then all of a sudden they're
abandoned. Oh, well, they got up and moved somewhere else. Well, where'd they move to?
But what's more likely is that, yeah, they, that, that, that particular social group
died out and that was the end of it. Um,
How much debate is there over what caused the younger dryas, whether it be comets or
solar ejections or all of the above? There's still debate. I'd say that there's there. I,
I mean, there's at this point, what 160 odd papers peer reviewed that the vast majority
of very much in favor of the, the, the, uh, cosmic impact slash airburst theory. Airburst meaning
like it explodes when it hits the atmosphere. Yeah. So it's initially, I think people were
thinking about thinking of it in terms of a single impact, but it's very much seems like it was a,
yeah, a series, uh, and potentially different periods of, of cosmic impacts and airbursts.
Airbursts are also traumatic. I mean, we have, there's actually been a few really good studies
on sites that show cosmic input. It's not related to the younger drys, but Dr. Stephen Collins at
Tel El Hamam basically discovered the source of the biblical Sodom and Gomorrah story.
He did a digging on a site and they've shown that that site was actually subjected to a
cosmic airburst and it literally matches all the stories that's in the, in the Bible, which
you would probably attribute that to the wrath of God if you had happened to witness that from,
you know, a hill. Right. A few kilometers away, but yeah, I mean, airbursts are bad as well.
So there's, but there's still debate. I mean, there was a, there was a sort of a,
another paper released recently that was attacking the theory pretty poorly. I thought,
I mean, it's just, it's, some of the opposition to it is, is quite strange.
And, you know, some of it has probably no place in, in what I'd say is peer reviewed science,
like the whole requiem for the younger drys paper is still, you shouldn't, but
safe to say at this point, there's still some debate. I, I, I mean, I'm not a,
I'm not, I'm not playing in that arena, but it feels to me like there's a vast amount of
evidence supporting the idea. Yes. Both on the macro and micro scale, as well as cultural evidence
in all of our origins. There's like nanodiamonds that have been found. Yeah. So I, I, exactly.
There's a lot of the papers focus on the, we have a number of sources of evidence. There's a lot of
papers that focus on the impact proxies, the things they find in the strata, layers of the dirt,
the shock synthesized nanodiamonds, the carbon and magnetic microspherals,
extraterrestrial platinum and iridium spikes, the black matte layer. So all of that's in, in,
in those layers, you have the evidence for catastrophic climate change that correlates
with those strata layers that are found in the ice core samples. So we look at oxygen isotopes
and other elements. There's like soot particles. There was a paper done looking at the, at the,
the, some of the particulate matter in some of these ice, ice core samples in the younger drys
that suggest there were wildfires and like 9% of the world's biomass was burning.
So you have these indicators there. And then you have the macro evidence, a lot of the stuff that
I've really enjoyed Randall showing me that the evidence for just Trump flooding the likes of what
we're going to see in Montana were just astronomical, yeah, channeled scabbards, astronomical volumes
of water pouring off, you know, those, those ice sheets on the, on the way to the, to the ocean
that, that sort of must have happened in, you know, these catastrophic sort of short-term events.
So you've got a lot of evidence that points to this traumatic period and that something happened.
And then there's, then there's all this scientific work that sort of says, well, these are all impact
proxies. You know, Mark, there's a great presentation done by Mark Young at the, the, the
cosmic summit conference that we held earlier, which sort of looked at a lot of this evidence.
And, you know, I think at one point he, he, he points to some of the rebuttals of the,
of some of the naysayers of this pointing out that, well, no, we're not looking at micro
diamonds. We're actually looking at like bug poop. And Mark was saying, well, bugs, bugs don't
shit diamonds. So, so the bug shit diamonds. I don't think so. He said, yes. He's a dead
pan guy and he just delivered that line quite well. What is the idea about solar ejections?
I think that's worth considering now because now we have
a lot of evidence for a cosmic event at the beginning of the Younger Dryas,
but there was also a catastrophic event at the Younger Dryas. The Younger Dryas is bookended
by two catastrophes. Yeah, the end. We don't have the same kind of proxy evidence for
impact, cosmic impact at the end of the Younger Dryas. Robert Schock maintains that
I don't know if he's come around to accepting the possibility of impact, but he's been arguing
in favor of a solar event. And I think that's totally possible, particularly since I learned that
there seems to be a correlation of the infall of cometary masses into the sun and a reaction in
the chromosphere of the sun that translates into solar storms and coral mass ejections.
I'm going to do a paper on that on my website or do even do a whole podcast around that idea.
I haven't had time to fully dive into all of what's now known that we've gleaned from the
information and insight that we have into the sun since we started deploying solar observing
satellites. We now know a whole lot more than we did. Let's say since the early 90s, now we've
got what five or six satellites that are looking at the sun in one capacity or another. The evidence
that seems to be emerging is that the sun is much more variable than was previously assumed. Now,
when we go back to the beginning of the climate models and the first IPCC report, which I believe
was 1992, they were not looking at the sun at all. They were still looking at the constant
sun model. And so if the sun is not changing, then you can't blame the sun for climate change
if it's an invariable sun. However, if the sun is far more dynamic, then it is going to play a role
and on multiple levels. And I think that's what we're seeing. We're seeing now the cutting edge
information about the sun suggests that it is much more dynamic star than was assumed in the 80s
and early 90s when the computer models were being generated and the sun was being dismissed.
Solar constant was the working assumption. Well, if the sun is constant,
then the sun is not contributing to climate change. But that's wrong. I think at this point,
we can clearly assume that that's wrong. And the sun could entirely also be a source for
cataclysmic events in the past as well. We know we've seen smaller versions of it with the Carrington
event. What was the Carrington event? I'm trying to think the actual date. We know that there
were telegraphs in functioning. It was in the 1870s. So it was essentially probably the biggest
solar flare that's happened in that period since and it literally set telegraph wires on fire,
melted the lines. And if it happened today, a Carrington event, it might fry all the electronics
on whatever side of the planet it hits when it comes along because it's a huge part of that
solar flare. It's just like EM pulse kind of thing. It can fry. It sort of fries electronics.
A lot of our electronics are very sensitive to electromagnetic pulses and things like that,
which solar flares hit you with. I mean, there are theorized more serious events even than that
that come from the sun. There was evidence that there have been more powerful solar events than
the Carrington event. Oh, yeah. Really? Yeah. We could talk about that in a future podcast.
Two things I want to mention. George Howard is reminding me that the second cosmic summit
is coming up next June 14th and 15th. It is. And the tickets have gone on sale,
I believe, while we've been sitting here having our podcast. Oh, beautiful. Amazing. Yeah. So for
sure when it goes live, yeah. Yeah. Ben was talking about our Montana tour. The last I
heard there was like two or three spaces. I think it might have filled up. But there might be one
spot left. We'll see. But I think it filled up as of yesterday. But there may be a spot.
Okay. Well, the other thing that's coming up then in starting on Halloween and for the following
what four or five days, we're doing a tour Eastern Tennessee in the Cumberland Plateau,
which is an amazing place of caves and grottoes and canyons and cataracts,
mostly hidden under the vegetation and the canopy of the forests off the beaten path.
We do this will be our fourth tour up in that area. We get off the beaten path.
We've got a great lodge reserved for the tour that we're going to be using as a base
to do these explorations. So if and we've still got like, you know, we've got probably eight or
10 seats left open for that. And this is again, very, you know, the people that come together
around these things are to me and I get this feedback all the time that people say, well,
it's awesome as learning about this natural history and the landscapes and the catastrophes
and all of this just as interesting and valuable and satisfying as the the connections and the
friendships that come out of it. Because like Ben said earlier, repeatedly, people will say, well,
you know, I'm every day, you know, I go to my family for dinner, I go, you know, at work.
There's nobody interested in this kind of stuff that I can talk to, but I come here
and everybody is interested in these the mysteries of our past. And that's a big part of what what
we're exploring in this is so it's not only about teaching people to read this cipher and decipher
the landscapes. Because wouldn't you say that's kind of what it once once you've seen it's it's
for me is revelatory having somebody like you teach is great. Like actually being able to look
at that land. I mean, it's a place these are beautiful places just on their own. But then once
you actually get some of that context about what caused it, and you can start to imagine what
actually happened here, it's just this, it's a whole other level. I mean, I've met people who
actually live in these places, like in the scatlands, and you start to explain to them what
happened. And they're just like, holy crap, I couldn't believe what you're looking at. They've
been living in it and they've never even looked at it from that view. I can't tell you how many
people have contacted me saying, well, I've lived here in this landscape all my life. And
I'm suddenly looking at it with new eyes. Here's an analogy for you, Danny. Imagine,
like we look up on the screen, we see words up there, don't we? Yeah. And you can read those
words. And because you can read those words, you extract meaning from them. You can make
associations, you can you can understand things. But if you're a literate, you'll look up there and
those those they'll just be shapes, they won't convey any meaning to you, they won't convey
information at all, will they? If you're a literate. So what I'm getting at here is that there is
a grammar, a syntax, a language of catastrophist geology that even most geologists
are not well versed in. So what I've been doing for 40 years is learning that language.
So when we go into the field, we look at things and what I'm trying to do is teach people
to be able to read that and imagine this, all your life you've been going through and you're
surrounded by words. And maybe if you're intuitive type, you get the sense that those aren't just
shapes. There's some kind of meaning there, but you don't know what that meaning is. Now you come
and we do a week long intensive. And I start explaining to you, well, there's this is an alphabet.
Here's how you say it. And this is what this word means. And this word means, and you know,
if you take letters by themselves isolated, what do they mean? Nothing. If you arrange them in a
certain way, suddenly the word has meaning, then you take those words and you put them in a certain
arrangement, it's a sentence, more depths of meaning emerge, put those sentences into paragraphs.
You see what I'm saying? Now, let's say we do a week long intensive and you go from being completely
illiterate to now you walk out and suddenly words all around you start conveying insight and
information to you. That's the goal of these, of these tours to teach people to read that language
that has literally been hidden within the landscape of the entire planet for 10 or 11 or 12,000 years
because nobody had the perspective to see it on the scale that we can now see it. That's why
when we do our briefings and we do the full, the full study of what we're doing, it's,
it starts with, you know, we look at myths, we look at stories, obviously, then we look at
photographs, then we look at videos, then we look at, at NASA satellite photography, we look at,
you know, geographic information systems, we look at Google maps, we look at digital elevation
models, all of this because now we can see things on a, on a scale that our grandparents couldn't see.
50 years ago, 60, 70 years ago, we didn't have satellites where photography where you could
be now begin to see the scale of some of these events that have played out on our planet.
So I try to bring in as much of that as possible. Then the crown of that is you go out in the field
and you start seeing this stuff and I'll tell you, even with all of the photography and the videos
and the drone footage and everything, seeing that until you get out in the field, you know,
it just, that's when it hits you. You begin to realize, I'm like a microbe here. You know,
I'm like a microbe. These things that have played out on the surface of this planet are in another
realm all together. So, yeah, you can start to appreciate that the, the literal like,
one of the terms I've heard you use is like, it's, they call America was also known as the
New World and it literally is because it was, it's built on the ruins of the old world and you
can get a sense for those, some of those processes when you start to see this. These catastrophes,
and that's why I think catastrophism such a, and the evidence for it is such an important
key that unlocks the possibility for a longer timeline and civilizations and things like this
is because it literally changed the surface of the earth. Like, it's between the flooding,
the fires, the sea level rise and falls. It changes the surface of the earth. And, and,
oh, this is the video we put. What is this? The Devil's Canyon? Okay, this is drone footage from
none other than, oh, shit, band, band, band work. Yeah. Am I, am I okay to go and I sent it to you
for this very reason? Yeah. Okay. But I want to make sure that it's understood. This is Ben's work
here. Yes. This is one of the places we visited. This was a canyon that was probably cut in a
matter of a week or two and cut by hit play by one of the great floods. Now let's take a look at this.
Yeah, this was a basically an outflow can like down to the Snake River, right? Yeah.
And, and what you're seeing here is not a canyon produced over millions of years, but a canyon
produced over a few weeks by a flow that probably would have been close to 50 million cubic feet
per second or greater. And, so this entire canyon was rushing with water? Yes. For a short period
of time. For a short period of time. And it's been dry since it's like. Yeah. So now this is in the
channel scan. So this was on one of our tours. And you'll see as we pan around. And again, a lot of
this is not going to be, yeah, it's not going to necessarily speak to somebody until you've been
trained to read the language. Right. But now you can see here, you know, there's the group.
There's some outcrop boulders that were left in the aftermath of the great flood flows.
Those things on the left? Yeah. There you can see our, our vans. How, how deep is that from the
very middle of it to the top? The deepest part where it would be 800 feet maybe? Maybe
6,800 feet. Oh, yeah. It was, I mean, it was it overflowing this at one point? It probably
Well, it started with an overflow and then it cut down. And here's what you call a cataract,
this bowl shaped feature. Now, this entire landscape that you see here was completely submerged.
This Palouse Falls is all the, that's the whole remnant, but you can see it's cutting its own
little cataract there. But the cataract produced by the big flood was this big round thing that
you're seeing all in here. This is one of our regular places to visit. And it's mind boggling
in scale. So this is one of your great features here. This is called Potholes cataract. Picture
out here. This is like a turbulent moving sea. Okay. The entire width of the, of the scene here.
It's probably close to 200 feet deep. It's choked with thousands of icebergs. It's moving towards
the viewer. And this is a ridge and behind you, you can't see here, it drops down into the Columbia
Valley. This water is pouring over this ridge and these walls here are about 400 feet high.
Think about this. If you have floodwaters coming through, ripping up stuff, excavating, eroding,
well, that's half of it. The other half of the equation is that that material is transported
and then has to be deposited somewhere. So you learn to correlate both of those. What kind of
rock is ripped up from here and where does it end up? Right. But you're going to see West Bar here,
which is pretty amazing. We're coming around. This is West Bar. You're going to see it now.
So are there giant rocks here that came from somewhere else? Oh, yeah. Glacial erratics. Yeah.
There's rocks and huge chunks of granite that probably came from Canada that are deposited
out on this giant, like a strewn floodplain. And where these coolies ended out is just
these boulder fields that go for hundreds of square miles of just huge chunks of basalt,
even some granite that probably came from a long way away. And then you get these big erratics where
like haystack rock and things like that, that are just these giant boulders that were deposited.
I want you to look here at the surface of this three mile long,
two or 300 foot boulder bar has giant current ripples on it. Now, the height of these current
ripples varies between 30 and 50 feet, the height of like a up to a five-story building.
And that's how we know without any doubt at all. There we go. Look at these. These are the kind of
current ripples. I mean, you'll see them walking along a sandbar on a creek, except that these
current ripples are gigantic. Like I said from- Isn't this also seen in the Sahara?
Yeah. Well, you have sand dudes in the Sahara, and they're being blown by wind, not water,
and they're dynamic. They're constantly moving. These are not moving. These are pretty much
like they were when they were deposited 13 or 14,000 years ago, when this gravel bar,
it's actually a boulder. That's what you see when the tide comes out of the beach.
Yeah, that's right. It's scale invariance, right? It's a great example of it. Like these,
the same sort of phenomena at work in small scale as it did with this. You can imagine
this current of water coming around the inside of this bend, just giant current of water that
left these current ripples. Wow. These 50-foot high current ripples that are there now.
That's, it's almost impossible to comprehend that. Wait till you see it firsthand, Danny.
Yeah. You got to put on your bucket list that you want to go on one of these tours.
I'm coming. Yeah, no, hasn't, haven't people shown, pointed out specifically, I think it
might have been Jimmy who pointed out that those things are near the reshot structure,
those water ripples. That was me. That was you. Yeah. Oh, okay. Maybe Jimmy got it from you,
because I think I heard Jimmy say it too. Well, Jimmy has been arguing that the reshot structure
is Atlantic. Exactly, yeah. I don't agree with that. Now, I remember you were here last time,
you said it's Azores. I think that the most likely, if it existed, I think the most likely place
that's the most consistent into details of Plato's two dialogues is the Azores as a remnant. Those
islands are the tops of mountains whose bottoms are part of a plateau that, about which there is a
lot of evidence that it has subsided by a substantial amount since the last Ice Age.
And I do a whole, I've got like nine hour lecture that I do on that. It's a pretty solid case.
I watched it. It's phenomenal. I watched it after our last podcast. Oh, excellent. Okay.
Wasn't there a recent voyage that went out to the Azores to look at this?
I don't know. We were talking about this. James Cameron, I thought he was supposed to look at,
I haven't heard anything about that since it happened, but I'm not, I wasn't involved in it.
But a lot of the signs on this... A Seamount dive or something?
Could have been. Yeah, I don't know. It's unfortunate that a lot of the actual
signs looking into the mid-Atlantic ridge submergence sort of ceased what in the like
70s and 80s. Most of the real signs, once Atlantis became a dirty word,
they kind of stopped looking at it, but it's, I think it... Oh yeah, like they, for example,
one of the Seamounts was back then was named the Atlantis Seamount. In the literature and
everything, and I've got the old from the 50s, 60s, 70s, and then we get closer to now,
the same Seamount has been renamed the Atlantic Seamount.
Really? Yeah.
That's bizarre. Well, I mean, to try to, you know, don't want to have that connection.
To try to get rid of the Atlantis. Yeah, the Atlantis thing.
That woo-woo connection to Atlantis. Right. But what I try to show in my,
my, you know, dissertation on it is that it isn't woo-woo. Right.
I mean, what's woo-woo about it? I mean, if you start talking about, you know, whatever,
you know, you know, crystal spaceships or whatever, yeah. But if you stick to whatever
Plato actually says, which is what I do, I pretty much break Plato's two dialogues down and go,
what did he actually say? Now, what is geology, geography, oceanography, and so forth,
botanian genetics? What does all that say now in the context of what Plato said?
And that's where I come up with, you know, that to me Azores fits the bill. But I'm not
saying the Azores was Atlantis. What I'm saying is that if Atlantis was real, of all the places
that have been named as potential sites for Atlantis, I think the Azores is the most consistent
with Plato. And where did Plato, he got his information from Socrates? Solon. Solon.
Solon. Okay. Well, actually from descendants of Solon. In the Socratic form, it was Cretius,
who was like a great grandson of Dropodus, who I think, if I'm recalling the succession, he got the
original story from Solon, who got it from the Egyptian priests, who gave him the date,
which was 9,000 years. In their sacred registers, is Sanchez was the name of the priest.
And that would have been when compared to now?
Well, Solon's trip to Egypt occurred about 600 BC. So if you had 9,000 years to 600 BC,
which would have been 2,600 years ago, what's 9,000 plus 2,600? 11,600, which is precisely the
end of the Younger Dryas, which precisely coincides with what's called Meltwater Pulse 1B,
where there was a massive melting of the Great Ice Sheets pouring water into the oceans,
causing the oceans to rapidly rise. Coincidence? Maybe. But what if it's not coincidence? All
the pieces fit. This is the stuff that I know you cover in your lecture series on it, but
once the glaciers melt, you have isostatic rebound of the Earth's crust, which is
the lifting, all that weight of ice on the top of the globe here is going to come off it.
So I think all of the beach ball analogy, it goes up the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, which is where
the Azores is located, is essentially like, think of it as like a hinge joint in the crustal plate
on the planet. So imagine if the land over here is going up, and what's it going to do? It's going
to pull that apart. So you're going to have submergence of the land mass at that Mid-Atlantic
Ridge at the same time. Yeah, it's going to go down. It's isostatic compensation, because the
Earth is constantly trying to make equilibrium. So if one place goes up, someplace else has to go
down, and vice versa. That's the geoid. It's trying to constantly adjust itself to fit
the mathematical geoid, which is the perfect distribution of mass, given the mass of the
Earth, its orbital speed, its rotational velocity, which is what causes that bulge around the equator.
So during the Ice Age, you had this enormous build-up of ice on the planetary surface,
on the land. All of that weight, which is billions of trillions of tons, is taken out of the oceans.
So like Brent said, the beach ball analogy, if you take a beach ball and you press it this way,
it bulges this way, right? If you, Danny, get up and go over and sit down on that cushion,
what happens? Isostatic depression. When you get your ass up off that cushion, you'll have
isostatic uplift or isostatic compensation. It'll come back up, right? I told this to Joe Rogan
when I was explaining to him, and I said, Joe, you probably didn't realize that right at this
moment, your ass is causing isostatic depression of your cushion on your chair. He probably doesn't
remember that. But I did say that to him. One more thing I wanted to cover before we get the
fuck out of here is the idea of the pole shifts. Magnetic poles. The magnetic pole shifted and
the Earth did like a 90-degree tilt. No, see, now there are a lot of these people that are
speculating don't really even seem to understand the difference between the magnetic pole and the
geographic pole. The geographic pole is the Earth's axis of rotation, right? The magnetic pole doesn't
necessarily can exactly coincide. In fact, it migrates. It doesn't coincide with the axis,
the geographic pole, which is the axis of rotation. Those are two different things.
Now, I believe, you know, I've looked deeply into that when I was first studying catastrophism,
looking at the work of Velikovsky and Charles Hapgood and others. Charles Hapgood
saw the catastrophic history of the Earth. He was trying to come up with an explanation.
He came up with a relatively sophisticated model of crustal shift, not the whole mass of the
planet, because he looked at the map. The crust, right, exactly. The Earth crust's placement was
his theory. Right. So, it becomes disconnected from the mantle?
Yes. The ethenosphere, the plastic-y kind of connection. You can think of the Earth as the
crust as being like the skin on an apple. That's like a relative thickness of it, right? But beneath
that, we have varying degrees of plasticity and connection. The tectonic plates are sliding around
on, what is it, the ethenosphere that has this plastic-y kind of properties to it. And
Hapgood proposed that that could have been disconnected and shifted violently or suddenly,
and then causing catastrophic... And he proposed that actually before
continental drift was accepted by mainstream geophysics and geology.
Really? Yes. Yeah. But of course, then when continental drift came along, this was a much
slower process, where Hapgood was envisioning something much faster. Now, I'm not sure I'm
100% correct, but I'm pretty sure that Hapgood abandoned that idea eventually. He didn't abandon
the idea of catastrophism, just the mechanism that caused catastrophism. Now, I have a...
It's very different. I think that back to the subject of isostatic compensation,
but you figure, again, the geoid in equilibrium is spinning on its axis. So now,
remember the 13-mile difference between... The equator and the Arctic.
That's the radius, yes. Oh, never mind. The radius. The diameters double that, 26 miles.
So now, you picture this. If you have a huge redistribution of surface mass,
so let's say that the weight of the ice over North America depresses the area of North America
under the thickest ice by a couple of thousand feet. Well, now it's not in equilibrium with its
latitude anymore, is it? Because all of the surface of the Earth's crust, if it's in equilibrium,
you know, the Northern latitudes are going to be miles closer to the Earth's center of mass
than the equatorial. But now, what happens if you change that distance by thousands of feet,
or maybe even in the case of the ocean bottoms, a mile or two, right? Now, it's not in equilibrium
anymore. There's not that correlation between the latitude and the distance from the Earth's
center of mass. Could that then lead to an accelerated plate tectonics where the planet
is trying to regain that equilibrium? So in other words, if you've got large parts, the
half of North America is depressed by a thousand, 2,000 feet. And then, all of a sudden, it's,
and I say all of a sudden, in a geological sense over a few thousand years, it's moved away from
the center of mass. Now, it's the distance that it would want to be if it was of a much more
southerly latitude. Does that make sense? I think so. It does. I think so. Yeah, so then
it's trying to reseek equilibrium, which I think what you're saying is, could that possibly cause
a kind of a violent adjustment, which leads to volcanism? A period of accelerated plate tectonics.
So it's the weight. You're saying it's the weight from... It's the mass. Or the mass of the ice sheets
on top of... Okay, so again, picture this oblate sphere. It's bulged out this way. Right. So if
the equator is 13 miles, and it's happy there, now go 45 degrees north, halfway to the north pole.
Well, now it's six and a half miles closer. Right. Go even further. Now it might be
10 miles closer. Right. Now, all of a sudden, let's imagine that it shifts upward by thousands of feet.
Now, where it wants to be to be happy is going to be further south. It's going to want to be
farther away from the Earth's center of gravity. Got it. That makes sense. Yeah. And what would
cause that to happen? Melting glaciers. Melting glaciers. Because you've got this huge redistribution
of mass. Right. Okay. From off of the land surfaces into the ocean basins. And during the onset
of a glacial age, you've got the opposite. You're drawing out trillions and trillions of tons of
water from the ocean, piling it up on land, and now that weight is pushing the land down
by perhaps several thousand feet. At the same time, you're removing that weight from the ocean
basins, which is going to cause the ocean basins to want to rise. So picture glacial interglacial.
You've got water being extracted from the oceans building up on the land surface.
From glacial back to interglacial. This is all melting and going back into the ocean.
So if you look at over a long period of time, hundreds of thousands of years,
oscillation, glacial, interglacial, glacial, interglacial, the shape of the geoid is pulsating
in response to that redistribution of surface mass. Right. Now, I think there's a possibility,
and I'm not a geophysicist, but I think it would be a possibility that that could introduce this
disequilibrium that would cause the movement of the plates to try to shift. And once they start
moving, the inertia of that movement, they're not going to necessarily stop. Because clearly,
like Hapgood was right, I think, you know, when you look at Orogenesis mountain building,
have you ever been up in Canadian Rockies and look at these incredible overthrust faults?
That's the future. Yeah, I'd love to see that. Where you have slabs of rock, thousands of feet
thick thrust up over other, forming these mountain ranges. Well, okay, you can look at rates of erosion
and the higher you get material up, the faster the rate of erosion. The problem with mountains is
this that seems to be ignored, is that when you look at rates of erosion or down cutting,
they're roughly, and if mountains are being built by continental drift, and continental drift is a
few centimeters or few inches per year, that would mean that they're moving. It's causing the plates
to buckle and raise the mountains. Right. Well, the uplift of the mountains isn't going to be any
faster than the lateral movement of the plates. But we've got mountains that are 10, 12, 13,000,
15,000 feet high. Yet, when you look at the rates of down cutting and erosion,
the rates of down cutting of erosion, the eating away of the mountain masses being uplifted,
is roughly equal to the rate of uplift. How'd they get up there? How'd they get up there?
Unless the rate of uplift was a whole lot faster. Way faster. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. It's possible.
I think places like Tiwanaku in the Andes mountain range, that's a huge mystery about how
that whole plateau got up there and how it could have supported the amount of life that was required
to create a city of that magnitude. There are some real clues to something potentially
happening at a faster rate. I don't think it's like a day, like the earth flipping over. There's
too much inertia in the system and too much stability in the system for that type of thing.
Just personally, again, I'm not a geophysicist either, but I am interested in the idea that
something could have caused a fairly, at least geologically quite rapid shift in the
earth's crust or in places like mountain ranges. I think we need to kind of recon...
See, I think we need to go back, take a kind of another look at the geologically history of our
planet within the context of catastrophism. Because since the end of the 19th century,
up until the 1980s, the models of earth history were strictly gradualistic, strictly uniformitarian
to use the term. Meaning, we have unlimited... The biblical age of the flood of the earth is
6,000 years. So if you have 6,000 years, you've got to do all of this, create the surface of the
world as it now is. It had to be catastrophic, right? But now suddenly we've got millions of years.
So we're going to get away from biblical literalism, which was actually kind of a straight jacket on
science in the early days. We're going to get away from that. And we've got now unlimited amounts of
time. So given unlimited amounts of time, we don't need catastrophism anymore. It was kind of a case
of the baby being thrown out with the bath water. We're going to dump biblical literalism,
but at the same time, anything catastrophist was seen within that framework of biblical
literalism. So it became one grain of sand, one drop of water at a time. And people like Jay Harlan
Bretts, who came along and proposed... Who was the first to propose to the scientific community
that these features that we were looking at in Washington were created by these gigantic floods,
he was rejected for 30 years because his critics said, ah, we're already, we've gone beyond that.
We, you know, we're beyond all the biblical stuff. We don't need big floods anymore. You're just
trying to take us back to knowing the Bible. But that wasn't the case at all. The reality was that he
was documenting these gigantic, you could almost say biblical scale floods, but,
but yeah, it was a good word for it, right? It was a good word for it. It would have felt
biblical had you been witnessing it at the time. That's for sure. If you somehow by some fluke
were able to witness it and survive, that would have been the hot pot. Yeah. You could definitely
see how it would have spawned the whole theological and moralistic framework for understanding.
And Brett's was eventually vindicated on his deathbed, unfortunately.
Well, he got actually, I think he was 96 years old when he got the Penrose Medal,
which is the highest honorary medal in geological science. And like I think he was about 96,
and a reporter or somebody asked him, well, how do you feel about this? And he's finally,
after all these years, and he said, well, it's great. The only thing is my only regret is
that I outlived all my critics so they're not around for me to gloat over anymore.
Absolutely. And I was right and they were wrong.
Yeah. I was bringing it all back. I mean, the last time I had you on here, Ben, we were talking
about like how, what's it going to take for academia to accept some of the stuff that you
guys are talking about? And what is it going to take to make this like the accepted narrative
of the history of the earth or not even the accepted narrative? When are they going to open
the door to new other opportunities or other? It's happening. It's happening.
Cosmic summit. Perfect example. Right. And what I was explaining to Ben was like,
people like you and Randall and Ben, both you guys, you guys have more of a reach to people
than any textbook has or that any teacher at a university has. It's almost, it's surpassing
what the quote unquote narrative is that you learn in school out of a textbook.
And you know, bypassing a little bypassing it. Yeah. It's, it's, well, and it is, I can see that.
That's a slightly threatening thing. I think certainly guys like Graham Hancock get attacked
because of it. And there's, there's a reaction from, you would call academic circles to try and
say, how can we, you know, become popular and get on social media and things like that as well?
It's, I'd still like to see a, I still would like to, I think it's an ongoing debate. I mean,
I, I, I liked it that this information becomes more available. People can learn for themselves
and make up their own minds. Right. But I, you know, I, I hate that there's actually
battle lines being drawn on this. I still think there's a need for more sort of rigorous and
open engagement and debate, which is not to, you haven't seen it like that. Yeah. Right.
And social media is not the place to do it either. It's, it's, you know,
whereas I think it's the, there should be proper forms for that type of thing to,
to engage these different ideas. I think it's definitely a political component to it,
because for one thing, think about this. If people started getting engaged with understanding
how dynamic the history of this planet has been, which encompasses everything, changes in the
environment, you know, climate change and mass extinctions and all of that, and potentially
the rise and fall of civilizations being, you know, who, who succumbed to these changes, right?
Well, that's going to take away from the political narrative that they're trying to
cram down our throats, which is it's, it's all human fault. We're doing it. You know,
the whole climate change, see, and that's what pisses me off is that they've hijacked the term
climate change, right? Oh, of course. I mean, anybody who studies the history of climate on
this planet acknowledges, yeah, the climate has changed profoundly over and over and over again.
So don't tell me that I'm a climate change denier. Okay. And I go, who's the real denier here? The
real denier is the one that refuses to look or refuses to admit that the climate is as dynamic
as we now know for a fact that it has been and that there is nothing, nothing that has happened
recently that is unprecedented. However, we could talk about a few other things, possibly you,
we're not going to get into that now, looking at Maui. I don't know if you've seen my series in
the Cosmographia podcast where I'm talking about these great firestorms in history. If you haven't
watched it, and then circle back to the Maui thing. I've heard the Maui has directed energy weapons
coming from space. I don't, I don't, we don't need that. The great, great, great Chicago fire,
Pashtigo, I know what you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Hinkley fire. Hinkley fire. Look,
you guys look it up on Cosmographia if you're interested. I think Randall's episodes on that
are epic. That's, are these like solar related? We will give you a little, there'll be a little
quiz next time. Perfect. Well, that's a great place to end this guys. Thank you so much. I'll
just finally say one last thing. Yes. The Cumberland tour, we still got about a half a dozen seats
coming up in first week in October, and it's, it's amazing. If you go on to Randallcarlsson.com,
I've got, I'm disclosing some information about where we're going, what we're going to be doing,
and to show people that, you know, even here in the East, we have these amazing landscapes in our
backyard. Nobody hardly knows about them. And again, it's going to be a way of bringing people out
into the field and teaching them this language. And then, like you said, the Montana trip coming
up. Montana trips coming up as well. That's probably on Randallcarlsson.com as well. If there's,
if there's seats available or contact at thecabin.com for seats on the Montana trip.
And Ben and I will both be there in person. We will. We will. I'll link both of you guys YouTube
channels below so people can go check it out. And then websites Randallcarlsson.com and regular
websites. Unchartedex.com. All my stuff's there and discussion. Beautiful. All right. All right.
Sleep tight, everyone.
