Hello world! Tim McBride is a former marijuana smuggler and pot hauler living on the edge
of Florida's Everglades. From 1979 to 1989, Tim ran the southern waters and the Caribbean
with a band of modern day pirates known by locals as Saltwater Cowboys. Night after
night, Tim would offload up to 20 tons at a time from cargo ships that would make the
trip from South America. Similar to how Mexico does today, Columbia supplied 42% of the marijuana
consumed in the United States in 1984. The major percentage of this traffic was controlled
by Tim's crews working with smaller crews and several large Colombian organizations.
Tim's story is fucking crazy. Highly recommend this podcast. This is one of my all time favorites.
For further ado, please welcome Tim McBride.
When I was preparing to do that VICE land video, I asked John, the guy I showed you,
the superintendent, and we'll show you in a minute. I said, you know, like any of your
other buddies hanging around, man, that might want to, you know, get involved in this thing.
He goes, um, yeah, he says, I know the two perfect guys, right? And he says, these guys
love to talk about themselves. That's perfect. That's what I'm looking for. So he says, Ron
Curry and Ron Guthrie, Ron and Ron. Right. So fast forward, we're having lunch at a Panera
bread and just then we're talking about what's coming up, you know, what they're going to
do with the, you know, on the video and, you know, for the dock and this Ron Curry, he looks
over at me because you don't remember me. And I said, no, should I? And he says, well,
yeah, I boarded your boat one night. Oh, I said, really? And dude, I've only been boarded
three times ever. And I remember him perfectly. And I said, you're going to have to give me
a little more than that. So he starts telling me the story. Well, I'm coming out of the
Southwest on the Fort Myers beach just after sundown and he threw the blue lights on me
and stopped me. And I said, Oh yeah, that's the night I let you stop me. He goes, what
do you mean you let me stop you? And I said, dude, I had, you know, 60 mile an hour on
you. I could have left you hanging. But what I didn't need was you on the radio and
everybody out here to run around trying to chase me and find me when 20 minutes or 25
minutes after you stopped me, I ran north of Pine Island and unloaded 47,000 pounds.
Did you see that? He says, he goes, no, you didn't. And he looks over at his boss, John.
He goes, yeah, he did. So Ron goes on, we get to be friends and he's telling me things
and, you know, I was originally sentenced with 160 years mandatory to life and $16
million in fines. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by the best
bongs in the business. I don't care if you're smoking weed, tobacco, free base for my
fellow Floridians. Just kidding. Of course, there are two types of cannabis smokers out
there. Those who suffer from burning scratchy throats and those who use the freeze pipe
with freeze pipes, freezeable glycerin coils, you will enjoy colder, bigger hits without
the throat burning or intense coughing. We've been testing out this freeze pipe for about
a week now. And I have to tell you, it's like taking a bong rip from Mr. Freeze's ice
gun. The secret is these freezeable glycerin chambers in here that cool the smoke by hundreds
of degrees and make your rips way cooler and way smoother. The difference is truly drastic
and your lungs will thank you. Check out freeze pipes entire line of unique pipes,
bubblers, bongs and dab rigs at thefreezepipe.com and use the code concrete to save 10% off your
first order. That's thefreezepipe.com and use the code K-O-N-C-R-E-T. Back to the show.
Because what was taking place at that time and and history proves this and that anybody
with any brains can look this up. And you know, if you, you know, if you're doubting
my word on this, that the federal sentencing guidelines didn't change to mandatory minimums
until around September 1st, 1987. So if your crime happened before September 1st, 1987,
you were considered under the old law, which gave you good time, statutory good time and
parole. Plus the judges or magistrates, if you will, had at that time discretion out
the ass, let's put it that way, you know, they could take a lot of things under consideration
when they're sentencing you like are you a family man or you've ever been in trouble
before, you know, and that kind of stuff, you know, your demeanor and, you know, you're
cooperating or you're participating, you know, that kind of crap. Well, those sentences
up until that time, weren't having any real great effect on anything really. And, you
know, to a great example of that is, I had just some how managed to come across an article
and you can find it if you look it up. If you ever if you if you Google Daniels Brothers
Everglades, and an old Miami Herald article will come up front page article and it reads
the headline reads, the cocaine cowboys of Miami have nothing on the Daniels Brothers
of Everglades City. So the story goes on, the articles reading through in the magistrate,
these five brothers are standing in front of the magistrate being arraigned for their
crime, potholing. And for the brothers had been arrested, had never been arrested, but
Craig, the youngest brother who's, you know, my buddy. This will be his second time. So
the judge goes, um, he's, you know, you can hear him rifleing through this shit. And he
goes, um, I have absolutely no how, no, I absolutely don't have any knowledge on how
to sentence people like you. There are no guidelines for people such as you. He says,
I'm at my wits end. I have no idea. You know, he says, um, and he looks over at Craig, the
youngest of the five brothers. And he says, uh, you do realize this is your second time
around, Mr. Daniels. He says, um, so why don't we do this? He says, uh, your four brothers
first time around 36 months. And then he looks at Craig and he connects to Craig and he
says, oh, Mr. Daniels, he says, no, remember, second time around, he says, does five years
sound like a long time to you? And he's asking him. And Craig goes, Oh hell yeah, man. It
sounds like a long time to me. I got five years. This is after reading their list of
seizures and the list of seizures read like, I mean, Jesus, uh, around $15 million in holdings
in the Netherlands and Tilly's holding company and number of properties around the Caribbean.
Here in the United States, they had time shares, hotels, motels, houses, um, cars, boats, buses,
plane, airplanes, I mean, all kind of shit. They seized another $8 million in cash. Plus
they seized 580,000 pounds of Colombian weed. No, who's got, who's got, who's got a half a million
plus pounds of weed laying around? Well, we do. So this is what they, this is what they seized
from these guys. And these are the sentences that they gave them 36 months and five years.
And what year was this again? This was in 1984. 1984. See, they came, um, they did two operations
or three, actually three operations in the 80s. They did the first one was in 1983 called Operation
Everglades over 250 plus federal agents from nine branches of law enforcement across the United
States. Every end of the spectrum was there, man. I mean, they were everywhere and it wasn't the,
it didn't result the way they had intended it to because the, uh, intelligence of the first
generations, you know, I'm considered a third generation pot hauler. I was the part, I was with
the kids. The second generation is those guys and their fathers and uncles and older cousins and
the generation before them was their, like, grandpas, you know, and so on like that because it was
generational. So, um, these guys are, you know, they're standing there and they're getting these
sentences and, you know, Craig gets five years after having had all the stuff seized, all this
money and all this property and all this stuff like this. The guidelines only provided for that.
The judge has no other recourse but to go by what the book told him to do at that time.
So, skipping forward, here comes 1984. I mean, the first time they came around,
they hardly found anybody because two weeks before that, they knew two weeks before they
were coming that they were coming because their intelligence was as such that everybody left town.
Oh, they're coming, leave town. So, almost a year to the day, here they come again,
250 plus, almost 300 federal agents from DEA, Custom Secret Service, FBI, you name it, they
were in there and they shut the town down and a little bit in Naples. They only took one guy
to block off the road into the Everglades because there's only one road in there.
And it was kind of silly.
That's how they blocked the road off. Jesus. This is a, no, no, no, this is a major. Look at this
guy. Hot hauling hat and a shotgun. Hot hauling operation and this is their roadblock. What are
you going to do with that shotgun? Because there's only, you think you're going to do with that thing,
man? Well, fuck dude, there's only one road in and one road out. I mean, how many guys do you
need to wash the fucking road, right? And I thought it's so. Pleasure guys are getting around on air
boats anyways. You know, so the second time around, I mean, it was, it was kind of comical in, in,
in most respects, because there were more reporters on this 130 acre island. There were
more reporters and cops on the island. There were people being arrested. It's kind of funny,
they're trying to block a road when you guys get around on boats. Dude, yeah, I mean, you know,
and what's crazy too is, you know, what we were masters of hide in plain sight, you know, we'll
get into this in a little bit about how it's done, the mechanics of it. You know, most people, it
just blows most people's mind. And that's when I start getting it up. Yeah, right, dude, you know,
it's kind of shit. But dude, you know, I'm not sitting here, you know, you know, and, and St.
Martin's Press didn't, didn't verify, you know, my story or what it is I'm imparting without some
kind of, you know, sources. Because the publisher of St. Martin's Press, Susan Robbins, she asked
me, she says, what about validation? You know, because all this craziness I'm writing about,
you know, hundreds and hundreds, even thousands of tons of pot. And I said, well, validation.
Well, let me see, who would you, who would you like me to introduce you to? The Supervisor of
Customs, DEA, FDLE, which is Florida Law Department of Law Enforcement, Sheriff's,
Naples Sheriff's Trident Task Force Officer, FBI, CAA, who do you want to talk to? I'll
introduce them to you. And she said, perfect. That's all the validation I need, write the book,
right? So everything that you read in here, and people have asked me about embellishment,
when they, you know, when they, when I'm talking about, you know, unloading a boat with 55 tons on
it. You know, I said, well, embellishment. I said, there's no room for embellishment.
To embellish on what was written would have made it, first of all, sound so ridiculous that,
you know, it would be comical. Well, that is comical, 55 tons. That is almost so ridiculous.
It's, it's on, yeah, this is, this is something that, you know, I mean, this is people don't
under, people don't know the story, which is why I'm sitting here with you, you know, and guys
like you to try to get them to understand that, you know, if you were smoking weed in the 60s,
70s, and the early 80s, dude, this is how you got it. You know, there was no growing the
shit like they were growing it all over. Some guys were experimenting little bits here and there,
you know, the plant or two and like that. But dude, if you wanted weed to smoke,
you literally had to go to another country, load a fucking boat full of the shit and bring it back.
There's your weed. This is how it was done up until the late, until the early 90s.
There's a reason for that too. What is this?
Naples man arrested for how much, how much weed?
I'm not sure who that guy is. Captain Tom, what's his last name? Storer of Collier County?
Oh, it's the sheriff.
It says Daniels. Oh, that Daniel, scroll up to the top.
But this is like, after 30 years, he got caught again or something.
Oh, really? Yeah.
The Dan is our prevalent family in Everglades. They were the first people to get busted.
Well, they were, no, actually, the way the chain of events works is there,
the original pot huller was, and his name was Lauren Tocch Brown.
Tocch was his nickname. Tocch was a legend in the Everglades.
Really? Yeah. He was the guy who blazed the trail for pot hauling out of necessity.
Because these are the days when the United States is expanding their borders at Everglades
National Park to try to include our passageways into Everglades City and Chucklesky Island,
where we bring our catches, our stone crabs and grouper and what have you.
What they had tried to do at one point was create a law that says that you're not allowed
to bring your catches through the National Park. Well, how the hell are you going to get to the
fucking fish house if you got to go through the National Park to get there? That wasn't going
to happen. So it was a big deal going on and they tried to set us down. Then they go into
rules and regulations. You can only catch so many of a size at a time of year. Only certain types
of nets are to be used on mullet and pompano and that type of thing. They just started crunching
down and making life a little bit harder on everybody down there. And then this pot hauling
shows up and Tosh gets approached and he gets his boat together and his crew goes to Panama,
goes around the corner and up the river to the grass, up the grassland to find the red
bud that everybody was smoking at that time. And trial and error, it wasn't an easy thing.
He had his problems, but he finally wound up working it out. So he's bringing these loads from
Colombia or South America to the guys to the Cubans in Miami. And things are getting a bit
dicey over there. And he says, look, why don't we just bring this shit over here? He says,
look at this, 10,000 islands. We live here. This is where our kids play. If you get the
shit in there, it's ours. So why don't we just bring it around there? So if you saw the dock on
Vice Land, that's exactly how it played out. Miami was the focus. Nothing going on over here
in Everglades. Because of the cocaine, right? Because the cocaine cowboys fucked everything up,
man. I mean, everybody wants to be the guy, you know. And in particular, in those days,
was a woman by the name of Griselda Blanco. Oh, yeah. She was the godmother. And if anybody
knows this story, and I pretty much know it intimately, you know, without the Hollywood
bullshit that goes into it, you know, when you see it on television.
She and her husband actually got Pablo and his partner, Carlos later, brought them out of the
gangs in Medellin. They were selling weed on the streets in Medellin, showed them how to gather
the coca paste and create the cocaine hydrochloride. They were setting him up to use him as a conduit
from Colombia to the United States. Griselda had it where she was using models and beautiful
women and putting in the bras and this kind of shit. You know, that was her first gig.
She was started out in New York, got busted with a kilo, disappears. Two years later, she
shows back up in Miami under her real fucking name. Hello. Nobody kept, nobody picks up on it.
This is our, these are the people protecting us. They don't even know that this woman's back and
she's using her real name in Miami. She winds up being the murderous, torturing, brutal son of a
bitch that ever loved, if you know the story. Yeah. That's why I've seen Billy Corbin's
documentaries. Billy Corbin made that. Yes. That's how Escobar became the murdering,
infamous son of a bitch that he was, he learned it from her. Because that's just how these people
were. She was the kind of woman where if you got her shit and you paid her back and she didn't
like you, she'd kill you. If you didn't pay her back, she'd kill you. If you took her shit and
whatever, you know, she'd kill people like she's ordered a pizza. So that's where the focus began
over there, the cocaine cowboys. And what we were doing on our end of it was taking these
idiots money, their bar money, you know, just for instance, give me 300 grand. I'll take it to
Columbia and I'll buy you 30,000 pounds of Colombian red buds, 10 bucks a pound, you know.
So by the time I get your shit back here to the United States, it's upwards around $500 a pound
at that time. Buying for 10 in Colombia and selling it in Miami for 500. 500. So
this is another, this is another fallacy that I try to disprove, you know,
when people think about violence. Dude, you're in Colombia in South America. I worked with
Noriega several times, never met him. Got a handwritten note from the guy one time, but never
met him. It's just people like this, people in Colombia and Jamaica, you know, like that.
No, I'm not scared. I'm a kid. I grew up in this, you know, with doing this with these guys.
How old are you? I'm 20, first time I ever unloaded a boat full of pot. I had just turned 21
and it was 15 tons and I never did one that small. Jesus Christ, how long does it take?
How many guys do you have unloading 15 tons?
Well, there's, and how long does that take? There's three guys on the big boat that go out to meet
the mothership. That's us. That's the higher, this is the hierarchy of how it all works. A boat
that goes offshore to unload from the mothership, that crew gets paid the most because when you think
about it, if we're taking 30,000 pounds of shit and putting it on our boat, three guys are responsible
for the whole load for about five hours to get it into shore. So that's, that's big money. Yeah. And
while we're doing that, we, you know, there's always safety valves built into the scenario,
no matter where you are and what you're doing. In this case, and I think I gave you this,
we're using this boat. Oh yeah, the picture of your, your, your crabbing boat, right?
That's me on that side. That's my buddy, Mark. He's the first mate on this side.
Yeah. Here, pull it up, Austin. You have that, right?
You got this boat? Yeah, we got the crab boat.
That boat has hauled millions of pounds, literally millions of pounds of pot has,
has been on the deck of that boat. Not only the deck, we're filling it up around the bow.
We're stacking it up on top here, just so the radar turns. And then from that level,
all the way back, it's that high. This goes down to about eight inches of waterline.
That's how heavy the boat gets. And we plug the scuppers in the back so the boat doesn't say.
So how many pounds can you fit in one, fit in that boat at one time?
I think we put about 45,000 pounds on there at one time. And this is not,
this is not hiding it below deck, all the subterfuge, bullshit. This is, I mean,
if you were to fly over this thing when it's loaded, all you'd see was the radar turning
in a big ball of pot going through the water. And that's what it looks like.
What happened? You can't find the boat?
Oh, fuck, that sucks. And then the, you know, the reason why
you see, it was our job as the guys on the boat to sample the shit. So when we get back to the
shore, we're like, yeah, take some of this shit, man, it's good, you know, like that. And everybody
would have a stash of it, right? So it was never a problem to load the boat, kick back,
captain's doing his job, he's watching the radar, you know, we got a 15 mile radius,
anything comes within that, we keep an eye on it. And it looks like that target's coming toward us.
We get off onto that. That's the speed boat. That's my chase boat. It's running right next to
that load. You got a picture of that one up there? Yeah, we have that picture too. Hopefully you
can pull that one up. That's me driving the boat and a buddy of mine just out for a cruise.
This boat drives like a Scarab or something, like a, like a GoFast boat.
Chris Kraft. Okay. Okay.
You know, like 600 horsepower. And it's a deep V offshore. I mean, GoFast, 60 mile an hour before
you ask it. So those guys are following you, they're behind you. I've got this boat, if it's
not my boat, that one right there, it's somebody else's boat that we've hired to run alongside of
us. We've got this giant fucking ball of weed going through the water that's maybe doing four
knots. Right. Because it's, I mean, it's loaded. You're chugging. And if something on the radar
looks like it's coming at us, you know, what the hell are you going to do? Right? Well, you jump on
that son of a bitch and you go. You get the fuck out of that, you just leave the weed. Let them have
it. Because the guys running the boat don't own it. The captains, the owners of the vessels
will never own them. The guys that own the vehicles and the trucks and all that stuff
for transportation, the owners are never involved. There's always somebody else. And there's a reason
for that as well. If somebody were to, if we were to jump off and get onto that chase boat and,
you know, off into the night, they're never going to find us. We are on the radio the minute we see
we're getting boarded to the guy that owns the boat, our captain. Call it in. He calls the cops,
the local sheriff department says, dude, I just looked out and noticed that my slip, my boat's
gone. So he reports it's stolen. So, and the vehicles are the same way. If vehicles get stopped,
these guys get out and haul ass because we have, we're, let me back up a minute here so it can
all make sense for you. We unload the freighter, we bring that 30,000 pounds in, 20, 25 other little
smaller boats, teacrafts, teacrafts or mullet boats at that time. A teacraft, this is it without
its twin 235s. Okay. Really wide, really shallow bottom. Right. I don't know if you can see.
With twin 235 evanrutes hanging on the back of it with, with vertical and horizontal trim.
Right. So as long as that prop will go through the water, that boat will go through the water.
So we're running these, we're unloading our big boats onto this, 25 of these, they're running
them through the shallows, through the backwaters to the island where we literally taking the
furniture out of one of our buddy's houses. And we start stacking and filling this house full.
And if there's more to be had, then we just move to Tommy's house next door and start filling his
house. This all takes place between sundown and sunup. By the time the sun comes up, the entire
load, regardless of how big it is, is in somebody's house and waiting to be taken to Miami. If,
by chance, and this happened the entire load, meaning how many, how much? 40 tons.
40 tons. How many trips do you have to go back? How many times do you have to go back and forth?
The boat can only hold 30,000 pounds. Well, then we take three boats. That's fucking nuts.
We take three of those big boats, like my big boat. We anticipate the size of the load,
or they tell us what's coming. You know, just 60,000 pounds. We can't get 60,000 pounds on one
boat. So you take another boat, or you take three boats and make the loads a little bit
lighter, move a little bit faster, it all gets done quicker. Everybody makes the same amount of
money because it just, I mean, the math tells you how much money there is. It's ridiculous. So
in this case, it's just one boat took the whole load. We brought it in, they come out like flies
on a garbage can, these little boats, and they take as many trips back and forth to the house
till our boat's empty and the house is full. Close it up and lock it up. Now, if the vehicles,
the vans, the cars, the trucks, you know, whatever it may be that is transporting the
material to Miami, some of them get loaded that night while it's coming off the boat and then
you drive it into town and park it in the driveway and leave it there, you know, just park it in
the driveway. Everybody has a two meter radial. We got like 110 of these things because to do
one of these jobs, say even just a 30,000 pound, which I never did one that small before ever
after that. They were always bigger than that. It takes about 50 to 60 people, sometimes more,
to make one job work. That's why when the, you know, the article comes out in Life Magazine,
we'll get to that, and it talks about a town of mostly women and children because the entire
male population is going to fucking prison, you know, that's because you can't keep using the
same guys night after night after night. Dude, you're going to bust their asses because I stone
crab during the day and I'm pulling 350 stone crab traps, which will, that's, that's a job that'll
fucking break you. Oh dude, it'll make a man out of you. Oh yeah. Because these traps, I know a lot
of guys live right down the street here at stone crab all day, every day during stone crab season.
We had 7,000 traps. We pulled 700 a day. I pulled 350. The guy on the other side of the boat,
we have twin pullers back and forth. Yeah. While he's pulling his, I'm dropping mine.
While I'm clearing my trap, he's picking one up. I empty mine, I drop one in his place,
and we were picking up, dropping off, picking up, dropping off all day long like this. And that's
bust ass fucking work. These things are like anywhere from 50 to 60 pounds apiece, these traps
are. And if they're not catching, then the captain says, pick them up boys. We pick every
fucking one of them up and stack them, move them somewhere else, drop them out, just like they do
on Delia's cat. You've seen this. Yep. And the way it's done is not that much different than the
way they do it. Of course, their operation is far worse than what we've got. I'm not even gonna make
that comparison. They're fucking out of their mind. Yeah. Stone crabs in the golf is nowhere near
king crabs in Alaska. Where we can pull 350 a day, it may take them a week to pull 350 traps.
So it's a whole different ball game. But the way it's done is very similar in the way they have
that big round thing spinning. Yep. Put the rope through it. Yep. It's a and then it goes into a
coiler. Yep. Now they're, they're running, you know, 8, 900 feet of rope. And that thing spinning
is called a shiv. And the way it works is it's like two pie pans stuck together like that.
And you put the rope in between them and it cinches it and it starts to pull it.
You know, grab it and, you know, start pulling on the rope. But halfway through it, it's a little
thing sticking out down here called a knife. The rope comes around, but it's not actually a knife,
really. It's just what it's called. It kicks the rope back out. So it doesn't continue to spin and
wrap around that big thing that's spinning. Right. Falls out on their feet. They put it in a coiler,
or just coil on the foot, on the back of the boat, because we're at the most 60 feet, you know,
something like that. So in that way, it's very similar. But dude, we're busting our ass all day,
pulling traps. And then we go out and we move, you know, say 20 tons, 40,000 pounds, that's
average about, anywhere is between 800, 900 pieces. We're moving. We're handling 900 bales
a night, sometimes two, sometimes three times a night. So if you're making that one, you're
going to make a ton of money. My first time out, see, these guys, when I came down to Florida,
I came right down. I had a gig in Hollywood. I was working with Sammy Davis, Jr. for a few years,
but that's a whole other deal there. We'll talk about that some other time. But
I'm not coming back and a buddy of mine, come back home, I grew up in North Carolina. My father
was 82nd Airborne. I went to school, went through my high school years in Wisconsin,
evolved freaking places, freezing my nuts off. And so I do this gig out in California,
come back to Wisconsin. A buddy of mine that lived next door to me calls me up and says,
dude, I'm moving to Florida tomorrow. He says, my brother-in-law is running a fish house on
Chuckalusky Island, this little island. I had been two years before vacation just visiting.
He says, I'm going down to work on a crab boat. I said, you want to go? And I was a machine,
you know, I had taken back up a machinist job at that time, and I didn't even give it a second
thought. I said, shit, yeah, man, I'm in. So just like that, I packed all my crap and I was,
you know, I was gone the next day. We drove all the way down and got to the end of 29 and the
dead end 29, dead ends right on Chuckalusky Island. And that's where I started.
And how did you get first introduced to Holland Pot? Well, the thing of it is,
is, you know, when you just show up like that, people are, you know, it's such a small town,
the people of sideways glancing you, you know, who's this guy? They're always eyeballing you in
that way. But because of the people that we moved, that I moved down there for,
my brother, my friend, Mark, his sister and brother-in-law ran Ernest Hamilton stone crabs
on Chuckalusky Island. So they were part of the family there. Everybody knew them. So Mark was,
his sister was there and I came down with him. So everybody knew where we came from. So it was
cool. And we weren't cops, we weren't infiltrating, we weren't, you know, and all that kind of stuff.
So, you know, it kind of got around to, oh, it's all cool. Well, Mark gets a job on this crab boat
and the other guy in the stern with him, there's only three guys on the boat. The other guy on
the stern with him is from Michigan. And the captain, Billy, he's really not digging this guy,
you know, because there's, so they decided, I said, dude, you know, I'm helping build a house
for Mark's brother-in-law, you know, at the time just to kill some time, make a little bit of money.
And he says, look, we're going to get rid of this guy. We want a job on the boat. I said, yeah,
fuck yeah. So they worked this guy to death. I mean, and you can do that too, dude. I mean,
it's a bust ass work. I mean, you can, you know, tear him on the fucker up.
Fishermen don't fuck around, man. The hardest working dudes ever. Fuck, dude. I have a, my back
is shot because of this shit now. But he quits and they bring me on. Well, you know, they give me,
you know, I already knew the rundown, you know, you get up early three or so in the morning,
it takes you two, three hours to get to the traps, you know, the lines and the, and the traps are
set in, in, in, in lines. We have buoys that are about the size of a little bit smaller than a
soccer ball, a Styrofoam buoy and with a number on it. And we have, we use what are called, we
call catch poles. We have like a one by one piece of lab that's maybe six feet long. We fiberglass
shark hook on the end of it and growing the barb off of it. So we can, you know,
grab that line, pull it in. Whereas the deadliest catch guys, they throw the grappling hook out
there between two bags that are floating and there's a line between those two bags. They catch
that line and pull it in because I mean, they got a mammy fucking thousand pound trap to pull in.
Ours are only 70. So we grab that buoy and as fast as I can put it through the block around the
shiv that's already turning and the traps coming up like that. So, you know, we start doing this
by day and
I go out there and, you know, they explained it all to me. So we're headed out that first day
and I just happened to wake up the bunks is in the wheelhouse and I happen to wake up and look
like there's no suns up and I'm thinking, nah, we should have been started by now. I mean the sun's
up. I look over and cat and Billy, he's got a big grin on his face. He's looking over at me and goes,
you know, he says, Timmy, he says, we're not going to go pull traps today. He says, buddy,
we're going to go offshore and unload a pop boat from Columbia tonight. And I said, cool.
You know, there's a kind of shang hide me into it, man, because, but, you know,
knowing me, you know, they knew I'd be cool about it. You know, so it was kind of a tongue
and cheek sort of a thing. I said, all right, cool. Let's go, man. So that was that 15 tons that
night. So we did that. And the very next day we get on the boat, we get ready, we'll go out and,
you know, we're going to go pull traps again. And here we go again. I wake up, no pullings going
on. He says, okay, tonight it's 20 ton. Tonight it's 22 tons. I said, okay, two nights in a row,
nearly 80,000 pounds of, you know, 80 tons of fucking weed. But I got paid rookie pay at that
time was only $5,000 per load per night. That was rookie pay. But now that captain understood,
he's got a crew that's ready to bust ass and willing to work. Now my pay changes. It goes,
now it's goes according to the size of the load we're hauling in. So if the load's 50,000 pounds,
you know, or 75,000 pounds, I'm getting paid 50, 75,000 bucks a night, a night. And there was,
there were times when we were working, you know, two, three times in a week, a night's a week,
sometimes four nights a week. And we're not the only boat. There's other boats out there. You
go to this one, you go to this one. I mean, they were stacked out there like a fucking parking lot,
man. Ridiculous. In one instance, we go out to, to unload this boat supposed to be 60,000 pounds
of shit on this thing. And it was a freighter, you know, was like 460 foot freighter or some
shit like that. So there were three boats, you know, assigned to do the, you know, offload
to meet the mothership. So we go offshore, we get together and we're diving or swimming or
fucking off all day long, you know, having a great old time getting stoned and shit. And at about
40 afternoon or so like this, just out of nowhere, this little Cessna single engine comes roaring
across the, over the top of the boat. And you can't hear a fucking airplane coming when he's
down on the water. You don't hear it until it's right on top. And you know, so here comes this
plane. And it comes up and it just misses our lower end antenna. And that's how close this
fucking guy was. It turns out to be Daryl. He's the guy that's doing the job. This is his job.
He's one of the five brothers that we're working on saw. So he buzzes us like that. He goes up
like this and he turns and he comes back and he throws a milk carton out of the fucking plane.
So we ease on over there and we fucking, you know, open it up and there's a note in it.
And it says, one of you guys got to flip a coin. I don't give a shit. One of you guys got to go
unload this boat over here because there was shit being unloaded all over the place.
What the fuck? So we were going to go with the original load. So it was up to the other two.
So they flipped and whatever. So it was, he goes, that boat takes off to go unload that boat.
We're waiting to unload our 60,000. So the way it works is the horizon on the water when you're
out there, if you're familiar with this at all, from Florida, your horizon is typically eight
miles before you to cover the earth puts it out of your sight. Depending on how big the vessel
is above the waterline that can stretch to eight, nine, nine and a half miles sometimes at the most.
So you're out of sight. You're over the curve of the earth out of sight at eight miles at eight
miles. Okay. So we sit off the horizon till, you know, about eight, nine o'clock, somewhere like
that, about two, three hours before sunset, call signs. We all these new, all these boats have
different call signs that are given to us prior to their scoring out on the job. So this one's
Felipe, Felipe, Zorro, Felipe, Felipe, Felipe, Zorro. He says it twice. The captain says it
twice. Then he hears it back. Come on. So we, they know it's us coming. So nobody else coming
to that boat. They're not going to be shocked and surprised. So here we go. We pull up to this
fucking freighter and this goddamn thing. It's six, the, the, the deck 16 feet, at least above my head.
And you know, we pull up there and there's nowhere to tie off. So Billy, the captain, the two captains
have to keep the boats up against the side of the ship because there was probably God, I don't know,
there must have been 80 guys on this boat, man. And they were going down one hatch, single file,
going down one hatch, coming out another hatch on the other side carrying a bale on their shoulder,
one right after the other, throwing them off the edge down to our boat down below, landing on the
deck 16 feet down. Bam, these fuckers are smashing the deck. And you know, we're trying our dam just
to not get hit, right? Moving them out of the way. And I also know you're here to help one of those
in on your head. We're here. Oh, dude, it'd kill you. I mean, this 70 pounds of compressed fucking
weed, dude. And the deck starts crunching, crunch, the fiberglass, because these fuckers are hitting
like bricks, crunch. And we're thinking, Oh, God, there goes our deck. But because we couldn't keep
up with the state, 80, whatever guys throwing the shit, they're not throwing on us, they're
throwing on the other boat too. You know, they're loading us both at the same time, right? Well,
the bale starts to stack up and they start hitting one another. So that solved the crunching of the
deck problem. Now, all we had to do is, you know, we're dragging them and putting them anywhere we
could put them before, you know, fill the hole up, put the deck lids on, fill the deck, you know,
around the wheelhouse on the bow on top of the boat, wherever we could stick this shit. So we've
figured, you know, Captain Billy, he's in the wheelhouse and he's kind of doing we're all kind
of doing a rough count, we figured 400 pieces, roughly thereabouts, would be half the load.
They would have the other half. So we're getting to where we're thinking we got about 400 and I'm
looking up the captain, he's leaning against a railing peeling an orange. And it's all fucking
shit's going on, right? And I look up and I go, How many more? And he says to me in his half-assed
English, he goes, 50 more. I'm like, Okay, so we're counting 1560. Jesus Christ. How many
fucking more? And he goes, 50 more. I think that's the only number the guy knew because
he doesn't know English, right? He's just yelling 50 more. So they keep throwing these goddamn things.
So now we're at the point where, you know, what scuppers are on a boat? No, what's the scupper?
Scupper holes are where, you know, when you're working, you're doing it, bringing water and rain
and splashing the deck, the water runs out. Oh, okay. Yeah, the back of the boat. Yeah. Those are
the scuppers. Well, now we're so loaded, the scuppers are starting to go under water. Oh,
shit. And that's going to sink the fucking boat because I mean, once you get water on the deck,
it's in the engine hatch, it's in the fucking build, it's all over the fucking place. So
we take a knife and we cut open a couple of life vests, pull the wadding out of them and
stuff the scuppers and plug them so the boat won't sink. While we're doing this,
this shit's still coming. And Billy says, he's yelling, I mean, we've got this shit stacked up
to where we can't, we can't even see inside the wheelhouse hardly because it's, you know, we just
left a little space for the door to open up and Billy says, we're getting the fuck out of here,
man. He starts the boat up, big black smoke, you know, and shit bellowing out the back end. And
when we start going, these buckers are still throwing bales off. I mean, for as far as we
could see these guys up into the horizon and with binoculars, there's, there's still throwing bales
off. Are you worried about going, you're still eight miles off short, right? Dude, no. Eight
miles is the horizon, right? We're probably 30 miles. You're 30 miles. We're, yeah, we're out
in the, are you not, you guys not concerned about running out of fuel with that much shit on the
boat? No, we're all prepared for that. You know, it's, that's why it's, that's why the chase boat,
because when you're coming back loaded like that, dude, you're not, you're just going to be four,
five, six hours getting back home. Oh yeah, easy. So we always usually used to start a big load
like that. We'll start loading before sunset, you know, and then once sunset gets going on,
now we have all this time to get into shore and then get it into the house. So we know,
you know, the biggest thing is trying to get the mothership to come as close as we can get
them to get to the shoreline. You know, the closer the better, obviously, and some of these guys,
they, they, they want to stay in international waters. They want to stay out in the,
there's a dividing line between the shrimpers out here and the stone crabbers. Shrimpers stay
offshore so many, so many miles offshore and the stone crabbers have so many miles in shore
for their traps to lay because a shrimp boat will take your whole fucking line, man. I mean,
they can screw up a trap line and nothing flat. So we had our boundary, you know, and we respected
that. So the boats would come in to where the shrimp boats are and hide amongst them. So they're
just a blip on the radar, like 70 other shrimp boats out there. So we're going to run out there
to them and unload the shit, you know, like that. So we're, you know, when then we have this long
truck back in, that's why the chase boat, that's why the radar and all this kind of stuff, you know,
so it's, you know, it's, you know, the, the way I wrote the story, it's a bit jovial, you know,
but in reality, there's a lot of seriousness to it. You know, I mean, we were kids working for
the adults, we were the humpers, we were the, we were the machine, we were doing the work,
and the adults are going, here, go here, go there, they're not handling this shit, we are.
So you bring it in, we're met by the little boats, little boats take it, put it in the houses. And
like I said, what doesn't go to the houses goes to, you know, park in somebody's driveway,
two meter radios that have five different digits to come to use as a combination,
virtually unscannable at that time. And we have communication is key. Everybody has to be in
communication with everybody else. We've got like 120 of these radios just to hang it around. So
we got one. So the next day, when it's time to start sending this shit to Miami in broad daylight,
as soon as the sun comes up the next day, that's when the shit goes to Miami.
And vans and shed across. Vans and alligator alley.
Cars, trucks, dump trucks, we'd have a guy bring in and dump a load of gravel in somebody's driveway,
fill it full fucking weed and send it out of town. That's a 120 mile trip across Florida,
you know. So these drivers don't own the boat, don't own the cars, they don't know vans and
those and just shit like that. So there are also at that time, you know, at that stage of the game,
another safety valve designed into the workings is we have anywhere between six and eight or
10 spotters driving that route back and forth to Miami in staggered form. Back and forth.
Like all day. All day. As long as we're moving this shit to Miami, you know, what happens is we
take it and we take it to a designated spot in somewhere in, you know, West Miami, like Coral
Gables or Kendall or someplace like that. You typically a plaza in Kendall and just a little
strip mall or some kind like that. And our guys will drive in, park, get out, go window shop.
And I have one of our guys with the Cubans on the other end who own the shit pointing,
that's our car, that's our truck. They put a guy in it, they go unload it and bring it back. This
is a dead drop. This is when the term dead drop first was coined back in those days. So that had
the major effect that that had was that the guys that were taking the weed from us in Miami
didn't know where the shit was coming from in Everglades. And our guys in Everglades didn't
know where the shit was going in Miami because that guy took in and unloaded it. So if either one
of them got popped, nobody could tell him where the shit came from, right? You know, plus if a guy's
driving safe from Everglades to Miami and he gets pulled over, we got pickup trucks and cars,
they all have reshitches, trailer hitches. Some have the low slung, you know, like big tall trucks
need the low slung like this. Well, we get those, pull them out, turn them over. So they go out and
up with the little ball on top of it up here. Right. And if you get stopped, pull over whatever
like this, you get first thing you do is get on the radio and say, Hey, I'm busted. You wait for
whoever stopped you to get between your vehicle and theirs, throw your fucking thing in reverse
and mashed the shit out of that car. You've got a ton of fucking weed or two tons of weed in this
van truck, whatever it is. And you smash this fucker with that thing that's going right through
his radiator. He ain't going nowhere. But you're not going to outrun his radio. You can get in
that thing and haul ass and get out of sight of him. And one of those 10 spotters will pick you up
because they're already there. Right. You get in the car and go home and the car's already been made
to the guy that owns the vehicle. So he's made easy. Dude, I just looked out my driveway and
like my shit, my car's gone. My truck's gone. Somebody stole my shit. Well,
that immediately relieves him, the vehicle, the boat, whoever, it relieves them of any
responsibility of what that thing has been through because it was stolen from them.
They get it back. Wow. What a very thorough operation you guys had going man.
Yeah. I mean, this is 30 years of shit going on here. These guys had it figured out.
Now going back to the cocaine cowboy story, it seems like just from the conversations that I've
had and throughout history is, by and large, most of the pot haulers converted to coke haulers
because there's more money in coke, right? More profit. Easier to move. Easier to move.
Folk wise. Why didn't you convert? None of us wanted to have anything to do with that simply
because of the, first of all, the people involved in it, for one thing, were just maniacs. There's
no trust. There's no nothing. There's no family to it. There's nothing oriented in that way
whatsoever. Plus, the amount of time you get for being caught with cocaine was significant.
Was it? That was way more significant than getting caught with a boatload of fucking weed.
Plus, mostly it was the gang, the environment, the type of people that were working with that.
I had an opportunity several times to move coke and what it was so easy to do, but
I didn't do it for those two reasons and I did it for a third reason. The most important one
in my opinion is, now the way this works is, if you bring a load of pot in and it gets to Miami,
you don't get, okay, here's your money. You don't get paid those millions of dollars right away.
That shit has to start selling. You get paid out of the shit that's sold out of that load.
So it may be a week and a week and a half before I start seeing money. So that being said, our
guarantee for the payment is, I take, if I do this arbitrarily, 30,000 pounds of shit for you,
okay, and you owe me $5 million for having done the job. That's what typically it costs to do that.
You paid $300,000 for this load. You're making $9,700,000 profit on something that
only took me eight days to get to you. So I'll give you all your fucking shit except for $5
million of it that you owe me. That goes to Fort Myers. You lose your shit in Miami for whatever
fucking reason. I'm getting paid. I'm going to sell that shit because I got a buyer right now
ready to take it. My crew didn't risk our lives to move this shit into the country and not get paid.
So now when it comes to the cocaine, I'm not keeping $10 million worth of your cocaine and
a little payment. Fuck that shit, dude. Just do it all, have it all and then risk getting paid
or not getting paid. So it really wasn't worth it, man. I mean, we were set up and geared up for
pot hauling simply because in the area in which we lived, there are times when we start to bring
a load in and there's unusual traffic on the island and that's when it's immediately determined
that, okay, the load has to wait and we'll put it out in the woods. Now, in the early days,
the guys would build what they call a million-dollar pad. They would take the bales to find the driest
spot out there on one of the islands. I mean, I'm talking about literally 10,000 islands you can
pick and choose and which we knew them really well because that's what we fucked around. Find
relatively highest spot on the island that you can, lay down a bunch of bales and then
Pyramid stacked them on top of those. If the tide comes up and it happens to ruin the ones that
it's sitting on, there's a million dollars. That's the pad. That's the million-dollar pad. We take
all the bales that are dry, leave the shit in the woods, however many bales that took.
So that's all figured into the gig. That's funny. So as the kids took over, those guys wound up
going through the process of being arrested and all that crap and shit and left us kids over.
We didn't believe in million-dollar pads. That's a lot of cash. It's wasteful.
It's a lot of pot and it's wasteful. What we wound up doing was a little bit more work,
but it was a little bit more ingenuity involved in it. And then we had to do this one night
because there was too much traffic on the island. I think it was around 42,000 pounds,
just over 21 tons, I think it was. And we had to stack it in the woods. So what we did was,
we found a spot about three miles south of Everglades up into the islands and broke down dead
trees and dead branches and built pads, literally built six different pads to set this stuff on
and bucket-brigated them from the boats into the woods and built these pads and put the shit on to
keep it dry. And I paid a guy $15,000 to spend the night with it. So he had a radio to spend the
night with it so nobody could show up and come back and help themselves do it. That's one of the
most fascinating things about this whole era in history. There's like this 10-15 year period in
South Florida where there's so many opportunities to make so much fucking money, whether it be weed
or coke. And it's just, it's insane the amount of people that I've been able to meet that have
made some people that just, they were just lucky enough to be born at that time in that area of
the world. And they made so much ungodly amount of money. And you're right about, you know,
one thing is that it's pretty much being at the right place at the right time. It's not something
that you can, that you just sign up for. You drive here and you sign up for it kind of thing. You've
got to kind of be, you know, grew up with it. And that's what happened to me. And on all us kids,
we all grew up with it. Dude, I have, you know, when I started taking upon myself to do loads on
my own when the first and second generations wound up going to prison, I can tell you that,
I can lead up into that story. Well, it wasn't, it was then when we started amping up the, you know,
the way it was done up until the second and third generations wound up going to prison. It was well
boats. It was, you know, it was radios. It was, you know, mechanics, fixing your boats, you know,
and a lot of visible stuff, you know, that really didn't need to be that way. But it worked. Because
at that time there weren't people weren't looking for this. They were particularly weren't looking
for it on the scale in which we were working. I mean, it was outrageous. I mean, it's, I find it's
hard to even say sometimes because it sounds so ridiculously stupid. I mean, I did a calculation
one time. And he actually did it in my book where our crew worked 28 nights in a row. Some of the
guys would say it was more than that, but I left it at 28 nights in a row. And this is 20 tons,
25 tons, 30 tons every single night. I mean, there was shit going and coming in cars and every,
and this is why half the town was involved in it. Right. So we're just, you know, going crazy,
you know, crazy stupid. And then when the first and second generations had their go, had their run
Operation Everglades one, which was kind of a bit of a failure. Operation Everglades two almost
came a year to the day. This time, all the grownups, the adults and everybody, you know,
that was visible at that time, just sat around on the porches at two, three in the morning,
waiting for the show to start because, you know, it was coming. There was nothing we're going to do
about it. So Operation Everglades two came and it was a bit of a success, I guess you could call
it that. But what they weren't expecting was the magnitude of at which this was all taking place,
the sheer volume of stuff that was being moved. They had no idea. So when they took those guys
all to prison, you know, here, you know, us kids are left. We were the infrastructure. We're the ones
doing all the work. The adults are pointing doing this, go here, go there, you know, you know, pick
this shit up move. Sometimes we'd have to take stuff out of one house, move it up the river and
stash it to where you can load it out and get it out that night because we have full put more in
that house. Yeah, it was just that way. Right. So 28 nights, some thought it was more than that.
But I did a rough calculation to the tune of about 1.6 million pounds in 28 nights went through that
little bitty 129 acre island to Miami. And during the day, because there's only one way in there
and one way out, you know, so when the Everglades seafood festival came around every year, boy,
that was, that was a winner, man. Because I mean, there were so many cars and there's 30,
the town goes from 500 people to 30, 40,000 people, man. I mean, it's time. Right. Let's go.
Let's move this shit. There's vans and truckloads of this shit going through town, waving at the cops,
even, you know, 99 times out of 100 were waving at the cops as we drive right on by them, because
that's the only way to get out of there. And I had a funny thing, and I'll just jump ahead real
quick. I have to say this when I was being interviewed by two secret service agents,
when I got arrested, they, you know, I said, you know, first question out of my mouth to them was,
do you know the geography of Everglades City? Yeah. And I said, well, how many roads in there
and how many roads are out of there? And there's one. Yeah, there's one. And I said, well,
how many direct routes from Everglades City to Miami are there? There's one. Well, yeah,
there's one. And I said, well, how do you think all those millions of fucking pounds got to Miami?
It didn't go by pelicans and porpoises for Christ's sake. It went down that one goddamn road. The
only goddamn road that there was, and nine times out of 10, we're waving at you as we're going by,
you know, shit. It was just that ludicrous. I mean, and, you know, this is a, this is a thing
that people have a hard time wrapping their mind around, you know, because, I mean, I'm skipping
around a lot, you know, but I mean, some things just need to be said in order to, you know,
to complete that bit of a story and make it, you know, somewhat believable. Right. You know.
Did you ever have the thought of like, you know, man, I should just hedge right now?
Quit. Quit right. Quit while I'm ahead. I don't want to go to prison. I got millions and millions
of dollars in these safes. Man, you know how many times I've been asked that question.
But, you know, honestly, it never occurs, never occurred to me to quit, you know, because
first of all, clearly you weren't doing it for them. You had enough money to last for
us in life. Dude, the money after a while was a pain in the dick. Right. I mean, I'm just,
it was, it was more about getting away with it, you know, that was, you know, getting paid because
Christ, there was this period of time when I'm getting paid, you know, I'm getting
bags of money shoved across the kitchen table at me for jobs I don't even remember doing.
You know, this job happened like four weeks ago. You know, well, here's another one. This one
was that one. This one was that one. And then I got like a stack of bags of money that I don't
remember doing. So what was the motivation then? Like, what was the best part about it for you?
Just the thrill of it. Just not getting caught. The camaraderie of it, you know. I mean, we're
all kids, man. Right. And we're running the fucking show. Yeah, you're in your early 20s.
You're not even fully fucking, your brain's not fully developed. Just babies. Right. I'm sitting
here 63 years old and I'm thinking, wow, 20 years old. And I'm thinking, you know,
when I think about some of the shit that I did, my ass goes, you could cut a cigar with that
fucker, man. But this is just how we grew up. This is all we knew as kids. We only knew multi
ton fucking loads. We, you know, I dumped more shit out of my fishing boots than any three guys
could smoke probably in their lifetime. I mean, that's just how stupid it was. And I say that
and because let me give you a little bit of a history here from beginning. In the beginning,
when we first started hauling bales off of these boats, they were just, I mean, coming apart.
They weren't even packed. They weren't compressed. The compressed bales hadn't come along yet.
This is in the late 70s, early 80s. Just loose bags. I mean, dude, they were like taking this shit
and in heavy mill plastic, stuffing it with their foot seemed like, and then duct tape that shut,
stick it in a burlap bag and stitch that shut, throw it in the pile. They were irregular.
They were elongated. They were small. They were big. They're 30 pounds, 110 pounds. One of these
fucking things wasn't was like a big torpedo. There was no rhyme, no reason to it was just
pack it and get it the shit out of here kind of thing. Well, when we take this shit off the
mothership, you know, we're responsible for that fucking load. You know, that's our, that's our deal.
That's why we get paid the big bucks. I've been paid as much as $125,000 a night just to bring
a load in. And I'm only working seven hours, you know, but the thing of it is, is once that
shit comes ashore and it gets off our boat, we've got to clean that fucking boat, man. And we're
taking hours with knives and screwdriver and little cracks and shit because this sitting
in a Colombian weed in those days was seedy. I mean, it was seats coming pouring out of this
shit. And we're unloading boats where we have to sometimes get down inside the boat and help the
crew because these freighters like the holes way up the fuck up here. You got to build a pyramid
of bales to stand on to get the shit up. And it's falling apart. And it looks like, you know,
you look like a goddamn McDonald's Happy Meal with your fucking seas on your face and shit,
you know, it's just comical. So, you know, this goes on. And we've finally got to a point where,
you know, we take a roll of this queen, we roll a plastic and some duct tape. And on our way out,
you know, the sun's going down, we radio our call sign, we're headed to the boat,
put this visqueen out and duct tape it all down and make a big bowl out of the back of the boat.
There you go, yeah. You know, so when they throw this shit in there, you know, we get back home,
unload the shit, unload the shit, unload the shit, go offshore, pull all this plastic into a ball,
tie a chain in an anchor to it and throw it off the boat. So smart, man. Like painters when they
put a drop cloth down. Because, you know, if anything becomes suspicious during the evening,
and they're out there running around looking at boats and they're boarding boats, they find any
a seed on your boat, you're fucked. They'll take your boat. It's as simple as that. So,
we get together and we think, okay, this is the early 80s when the advent of the commercial
and the household trash compactors first started coming into, under commercials and into the scene.
So, a couple of the third and first and second generations get this white bulb goes on and they
say, well, why don't we take about a dozen of these fucking things and a few generators down there
and show them how to do this? You know, that's how a bale of pot looks like a bale of pot now.
Really? Because of our guys went down to Columbia and said, we're, you know, we can't be responsible
for your bullshit anymore. Right. You either get your shit. It's not their problem. It's your problem.
It's us. Right. Because it's our asses. It's on our boat. They're not going to prison for this fucking
shit. That's how the advent of the square grouper came about. When you look at a bale of pot today,
it looks that way because our older generation made them look that way.
That's insane, man. And that's the God's gospel truth, man. You can hate on me all you want,
but that's, you know, I'm not sitting here telling lies because I like to. That's just the way it
was because we were responsible. So having said that, now the, they're more consistent.
They're easier to handle. They stack better. So now what happens? The loads get bigger because
they're not these God awful fucking pieces of shit anymore. So now they're stackable. And our boats
designed to haul crab traps are perfectly designed to haul bale of pot. So they're
stacking in there really nice, man. And now we got some, and we were stacking them in there
to a point where sometimes the boat would work. That's it. That's what they look like right there.
Yeah. Sometimes the boat was, you know, you're pitching and rolling on like Legos. Yeah. They're
pitching and rolling on the seas a little bit and some will fall off and shit like that.
Had square grouper. That's how they get the name square grouper. Nobody really knows today who
first came up with it, but I know it came out of our, it came out of Everglades city because,
I mean, we're the fuck else would have come out of. And I don't, you know, I don't go on telling
these stories like we are the only ones that ever did it. We didn't invent hauling pot. We weren't
the only ones that ever hauled a bale of pot. I never said that. And I would never take anything
away from anybody that has ever done it because, man, it takes balls. You know, go to another
country to people you don't know, load your boat, bring it back, you know, and get away with it.
They were pot haulers all over the place. What my story is designed to do is to help you understand
the history of it all and how a small town in Southwest Florida can be the hub of the marijuana
industry throughout North America and nobody know a fucking thing about it.
A little 500, 600 person town is responsible for the bulk of the weed coming into this country.
That's so funny.
It's, you know, and I felt the story needed to be told because I, you know, what prompted me really
was I saw Billy Corbin's. Documentary.
Documentary.
Square grouper. And it was, you know, I like his style. I like the way he does the animations
and, you know, and he's really good at production when it comes to that sort of thing.
But the actual telling of the story, in my opinion, he missed the greatest story to be told.
He talked about the Ethiopian Zion Coptic church out of Jamaica who set up an operation
in a mansion on Star Island in Biscayne Bay in Miami. We hauled millions of shit to that island
for them. I mean, really?
Yeah. And there was another group of guys at that time. This guy's, he's a funny fucker.
His name was Robert Flattorn. He was, they called him the Black Tuna Gang.
Because everybody in the group had a gold pendant made of a tuna, had a tuna.
So if you're part of that, click, you had a tuna. Black tuna, whatever.
They got into pot hauling when, back when President Carter was making quasi moves toward
legalization and, you know, bringing that on. So they figured they're going to blaze the trail,
they're going to go to Columbia, figure it out. They even used a High Times magazine.
I don't know if you're familiar with High Times.
Oh, yeah, of course.
They used to give you the pop prices in the magazine. They were using that to figure out
what their prices would be. So they set up headquarters in the Fountain Blue Hotel,
downtown Miami, in a penthouse suite.
And their claim, South Beach, right?
Their claim to fame was like a half a million pounds or something shit like that.
The Zions, the Coptics, their claim to fame was like a million pounds of feed,
you know, weed moved in and shit like this. I got a hold, and I first heard George Young's story
about him flying Mexican weed into the country in the Sonata and his association with a guy named
Diego in the movie, who in real life was Carlos Slater. That was who they're portraying.
And another guy who I happened to find a phone number on the internet for,
just out of the blue, his name was Brian O'Day, and he wrote a book called High,
Life of an International Drug Smuggler. His claim to fame was about a half a million
pounds of Asian weed that he brought into the Gulf of Alaska, processed it on a fishing vessel,
put it in boxes and froze it and brought it to the docks in Washington,
just like it was the regular catch. And he would have, you know, a box of actual frozen fish
sitting around one of his guys every now and then to bump one, like then they just spill
across the deck and be fish everywhere. So, you know, that's fish. Right. It's not weed going
into that truck. Well, I'd taken these guys claim to fame, you know, the Zions, the Tuna Gang,
George Young, and Brian O'Day, and I put all their shit in a pile and I said,
fuck, that's not even a year's work for us, man. You want to hear a story? Well, back the fuck up.
Here comes a story, you know, so that's when I started writing this. And what I did at that time
was I went back to Everglades and, you know, writing a memoir and writing about the history of,
you know, this genre, if you will. I needed to make sure that the stuff that I was writing just
didn't come from what I thought took place or I knew the guys. This guy did this and I went back
and talked to the older generations. I sat down with Craig, the youngest brother, and I wrote
about what he told me, you know, about, you know, how things went for them and how they were arrested
and how they were, you know, they were shunned in prison. And when they walked through the prison
yard, they would open up like this and they would let through because they were whispering about
the Everglades cartel, you know, which was a fucking joke, right? But people gave them the
ultimate respect because of the just the sheer volume of shit they managed to move, you know.
And so I wrote, you know, I wrote their little bit about their story in the book, you know,
and that little bit about them being sentenced in front of the magistrate with these ridiculous
sentences, you know, which brings me back around to the mandatory minimums that, you know, and they
weren't having the dramatic effect that they expected it to have, you know, the busting and
then all this kind of stuff. So they said, okay, mandatory minimums across the board.
We're going to take away discretion from the magistrates and the judges across the country.
We're going to give you a slide rule, rather, you know, if you will, here and here. And
whatever times it dictates that you get, that's what you're stuck with. There's no more
discretion amongst the judges. They can't help you, you know, as sorry, our hands are tied.
The amount that you're busted with equals a certain amount of years is what that means.
Well, what happens if you're over 2000 kilograms, then you're majored. My indictments were, there
were four of them. They were a mandatory 10 years to life on each count. I didn't actually catch me
with anything. These are conspiracy counts, conspiracy to possess, to import more than 2000
kilograms, conspiracy to sell and some other crap. How do they get your name? How do they know who
you were? That was interesting because the way it works is, you know, when I was a kid doing this
work, along with all the other kids, you know, we never knew who the boss was. We never knew who
was paying us. We didn't give a shit, you know, who was paying. As long as that paper bag got
slid across the kitchen table, we were all happy, man. We didn't need care. So when I started taking,
you know, and doing, doing jobs on my own, which only happened because they, everybody went to
prison. And then two guys that I happened to know in Miami, just out of, you know, serendipitously,
how it happened was I drove, I went a bag full of that 55 tons of shit because I didn't have
enough drivers. I made 75 grand in the first night hauling it in shore, and they paid me 35
grand to drive this fucking, I went a bag of brand new to Miami that had about 11,000 pounds of bales
in it. And it couldn't go to the dead drops plaza, because you got within 40 feet of this fucking
thing, you could smell it, right? It had to go right to the house. So what they needed, what
Darrell needed was somebody he could trust to do this. So he said, and I go over there just to
see what's going on. And I get shackled into this thing. And he said, Timmy, come here. He says,
and he would like you to drive this to Miami if you wouldn't mind. I said, no, I can't like that.
You know, it's a $35,000 job. You know, I said, well, I just made 75 grand that night. I didn't
give a fuck about the money. But because of who it was, it was asking me, I felt obligated. Okay,
he's the boss. This is snow. Okay, what the fuck. So we put airbags in the springs of this thing,
and you inflate the airbags and it lifts this when a bag go off the ground. So its ass is not
sparking the highway when it's going down the road, right? So I'm driving this behemoth down
fucking 41 all the way to Miami to Chrome Avenue and I hang our right and I go off and I'm driving
down back into this orange field. And there's this looking castle. It looks like a castle. It
doesn't belong there. And I pull up to the side door and the guys jump out. They start unloading
the shit taking it into the basement. And guys were teasing me before I took this ride. They
were telling me about, you know, people have been murdered in this house, man. And these guys are,
you know, these guys are insane fucking Cuban freaks, you know, like this. And I just was
hearing it, you know, it didn't occur to me it was that way at all. And it wasn't really when I got
over there. I had to spend the day that they'd asked me to spend the day because when when the
loads quit coming for that day, I was to drive a car with money in it back home. Because I drove
the Winnebago I need to get home. So right. So I don't know how much money was in this fucking
car was jam packed full. And I was there all day, you know, playing cards and you know,
goofing off getting to know the guys and shit like that. So fast forward now when everybody
gets busted and shit, they go to prison, they go to jail and these guys still got work to do.
They only knew one face. They never saw any of the other crew. Nobody ever drove to the
stash houses. They were always dead dropped. Nobody knew anybody. That was the way it was
kept. You don't know them. They don't know us. I never saw your face. I don't know who the fuck
you are or anything like this. But me, I was chosen to drive straight to the fucking house,
spend the day with these guys. So now when everybody gets busted, and you know, it wasn't
two, three maybe maybe two, three months later, I get a knock on my door and open the door and
there's this guy Jorge from that fucking house in Miami to me. It took him three weeks to find me.
They knew my name was Tim. They knew what I looked like, but they took them three weeks and they
found me and they said, Tim, man, we got shit backing up. Can you do this work? And I just,
you know, without even thinking about it. Yeah, fuck yeah, you know, what do they want you to do?
haul the pot for them. Okay, the grownups weren't there to set the deals and go buy the
shit now that they're in prison. They Cuban still had work to do. They needed us to continue
doing the work. Well, the infrastructure was still there. Like I said earlier,
the kids that did all the work. I mean, we were all there, you know, because they got the visible
guys at that time, the older generations, they had no idea the kids were doing this. Fuck, there
were 20 year old 19, 20 year old kids driving boats full of pot through the islands and shit.
They never, never occurred to them. So I went back and got everybody was there. The only thing I
had to figure out was how much to charge the fuckers, where to go get the shit, you know,
and all this kind of stuff, which I wound up getting it from one of the other generations,
you know, keep me in on their connection and how it's done and how the pay and the price I had
come up with, you know, on my own was pretty close to what they were charging because by that time
I had worked almost every position. I was a bail handler. I was loading cars. I was under, you
know, unloading freighters. I was, you know, whenever they needed somebody, I worked it.
And then I got paid that, that pay. Well, the pay scales are different for every job you do.
The bail handlers get five grand a night. The cars that drive the cars will get 30 grand a trip.
They pay their drivers out of that. You know, the guys that got the smaller boats that come out to
get the shit from our boat, from the mothership, those little boats making it through the islands,
they're about 35 grand a piece, and they pay their guy on board out of that.
We're on the big boat with the load. I make 75 or 100 grand a night. So that's how it all works.
So I just reverse engineered the math and came up with a number about how many people we needed
for this and it was pretty close. Now, there's two ways to do it. There's paying me $175 a
pound. I'll go to Columbia, Jamaica, Central America, wherever the fuck you want to get your
shit and put it on your doorstep in Miami for $175 a pound. Or you can pay me $145 a pound.
You go get the shit. You bring it out here offshore. I'll come and unload you and bring it and put it
on your doorstep in Miami. I'll do it that way. But most of the guys opted for me to just do the
whole fucking thing because they didn't want to bother with it. And that's how it worked.
Wow, man. And I just managed figuring that. So I went from being this guy that was running
offshore unloading boats. It's just all of a sudden, I'm the guy that's... Now you're making it all
happen. Yeah. So I get the first job in. Everybody's paid. Everybody's happy. So we do another one,
another one, another one. And that's when the guy started with me about the cocaine.
It's too low to cope, dude. It's fucking easy. I'm like, no. For one reason, there's
a whole different crowd of people fucking around with that shit. And then I told them about the
holding the money kind of thing. I didn't want to do that either. But little did I know that the
two guys that... The only two guys from Miami that I mentioned in my book are Carlito and Leo.
Carlito and Leo, as it turns out, wound up being two soldiers of Garzal de Blanco.
Really? Holy shit. I didn't know this until I was researching my own shit.
Wow. And then it finally occurred to me. I'm thinking, yeah, okay, what? So we're counting money,
and the loads are getting bigger. So the cash is getting more.
Some of the jobs are going for $25, $30 million. And I'm taking my cut out of that
while they get their cut. So I'm counting at any time my crew's $10, $12, $15, $20 million
for my crew. And I've got to count it. So we had, at one point, four money machines that the banks
use going constantly. And we had hundreds in one bedroom, 50s in another, 20s in another,
10s in another, and fives in the garage. Because I mean,
$5 bills were ridiculous. Nobody wanted them.
Crazy. Just burn them, right?
I mean, $50,000 and $5 bills is as big as this fucking table. But the thing of it was,
was when I got paid, or anybody did really, you couldn't just take hundreds. I had to take
multiples of denominations, spread it out a little bit like that. So why was that?
Well, it's because, I mean, it's just a fair thing to do. Somebody's going to wind up with
the fucking garage full of fives. Who's going to want that? And 80% of them, $5 bills, and I got
a bundle of them one time, $5 bills. They were shrunk wrapped in probably about a one by one
square like this. Opened it up and they were moldy. It was mildewed. Because money mildews.
And they put these goddamn rubber bands around them, and the bacteria on the rubber bands starts,
on the money starts to deteriorate in the rubber bands. Rubber band gets after a while,
it falls apart and shit like that. Well, that's because money's nasty. And I've gotten paid with
$20 bills that were in the mold, flying out of them shit. Because the money's just being
handed like this. It's never getting time to spend it at that level. So I get a,
you know, I do this job, we're over there counting money. And I should be in Colombia,
or I should be helping my crew with another load, but I'm stuck counting goddamn money.
Because now our paydays are getting up toward $15-20 million. It takes a while to count that
kind of money, man. People just don't, they don't grasp, they see these movies, you know,
of a guy, you know, carrying around a bag that's got a million dollars in it,
and he's running and he's slinging that fucking, there's no fucking way he's slinging that bag
around. How long does it take for one of those money machines, or three of those money machines
to process 10 million bucks? Days. Days. Days. Nonstop. Nonstop. Because not only doing just
hundreds, you're doing hundreds, 20s, 10s, five, you're doing all these denominations. So
when the guys go into the room, they shovel in a bunch of money into a fucking laundry basket,
bring it out to us, we're popping rubber bands and stuffing this thing in, and we're,
it's counting, and we're ledgering, and it's just taken for goddamn ever, man. So just out of, you
know, sheer screwing and fucking around in those days with triple beams and the cocaine and that
kind of shit, you know, guys would, you know, do a line and throw their fucking bill on the,
on the scale and just fucking around that weighs a gram. Every bill, no matter what
denomination it is, weighs a gram. That's crazy. Look it up on the internet. That's insane. They'll
actually tell you now on the internet how much money weighs. So if every bill, no matter what
denomination weighs a gram, there's 28 of them in an ounce, there's 16 of them in a pound. Dude,
it's just math from that point on. So now we're taking these baskets, setting the basket on the
scale, we have to count the bundles that we throw in there. The first time around, we're, say,
120 to 10, we were first, and we're counting the bundles until we got a million dollars worth of,
say, $20 bills in this basket and it weighs X amount. We have to subtract the weight of the
rubber bands on the bills. So if there's two rubber bands on each bound pack of bills, that's two
grams. So we had to count the bundles so we could subtract the grams for the rubber bands
and the money comes out exactly on the dollar. That's fucking crazy. 110 pounds in $20 bills
weighs a million dollars. 110 pounds in 20s. In 20s. 22.2 pounds is a million dollars in 100s.
I remember reading in the book that Pablo Escobar's brother wrote, I think it was called The Accountant
Story, something like that. I remember he wrote because he was the one who was like accounting
for every single expense. I remember he said that they were spending around $10 grand a month
on rubber bands. You know, it's funny you should bring that up. It's a reminder to me.
We were taking so much shit. I mean, dude, you have to read the book, Saltwater Cowboy,
Rise and Fall of a Marijuana Empire. You can find it on Amazon, just about anywhere.
We were bringing so much shit out of South America. They were running out of stuff,
out of bags to put it in. First we're getting coffee bags, burlep coffee bags, because coffee's
a big product and they got us, you know, they got burlep bags, coffee burlep bags all over the
fucking place. Well, we used all of them that we could use. Now we're getting, in the first time
I'd had ever seen this. I never knew Purina made horse chow and monkey chow and, you know,
cat chow for lions and shit like that, for zoos. Oh, wow. I didn't know that either.
So now we're getting bags that are got Purina monkey chow written on the side of them because
they're out of burlep bags. And we're using every fucking bag in South America, sugar, sugar,
you know, then they started going to the nylon woven out of the burlep kind of thing and we
used every kind of fucking bag. I saw a whole boatload of weed, 40, 20 tons of shit boxed in
marble containers. Really? That's funny. They said regular marble cigarettes on them because we
were taking so much shit, they were running out of stuff to put it in. What was the first
time you actually went down to Columbia yourself? Oh, that was in, I think late 84. Okay. Something
like that. And what's spawned that decision? When Jorge showed up at my door that day. Oh,
really? And he knocked on the door and said, Timmy, we got shit to do, man. Can you do this?
And I said, yeah, so I go back to Everglades and find everybody and say, you know, we're going to
do this, we're going to do this, we're going to work. And they said, okay, what we need you to do
is we need you to go get it. You go pick it out, you weigh it, you go get it, and you go, the first
one you bring up, you take care of all of it, bring it for us. So Carlito and Leo had a jet
that their gang used. It was a corporate lure at that time. Okay. And he said, come on with,
you know, he says, I took my buddy, Franco, he was a Spanish dude to translate for me. So we
hop on this plane, it's only like a five and a half hour flight, you know, depending on the wind,
speed and all that kind of shit, it's only five hours to South America. So I agreed, I'd go down
there, I'd find the shit, I'd chest it, I'd try it, I'd weigh it, make sure they're getting a good
product and, you know, I'd get it back for them, you know, send a boat for it and, you know, like
that. So hop on the plane, me and my buddy, and we fly down there and we land and they pick us up
in a fucking Bronco. Really? This thing was bad ass dude, it looked like, remember that
Romancing the Stone, do you ever see that movie with Michael Douglas? I don't think so. And he's
got this, Clemmie and good guy, he's got his little mule. His little mule's a Bronco. Oh, really?
Yeah, it was just funny as shit. So we get there and I meet the guy and he was just, you know,
didn't meet him the first day. You know, we flew in, we went to the house and you could see the
house from the plane from the jet before we landed. I mean, this is huge, beautiful home out in the
middle of nowhere. And the landing strip was carved out of the jungle floor. It wasn't paved,
it was just very well maintained. And when you're flying out there and all you're seeing is a sea
of green and then out pops this little strip of white out of nowhere. And you were to land a
lear jet on it? That's where they're landing this little fucking jet right on this thing. It was
designed, made perfectly for it. Wow. So we get there and he takes us to this apartment at the
back of the house. And this is, you know, five times bigger than my house at home, you know,
through the apartment. So we're hanging out and the sound sounds rather cliche, but he had a
VHS. Just come out of the Betamax, which were the great big giant fucking ones. Then they went on
to the VHS and watched Scarface. We put Scarface on. They held bowls of Coke all over the apartment.
Really? Yeah. So we're in there just chilling from the trip, you know, and I got fucking whacked
and I can't eat because I'm doing one of these, you know. So we walk through the garden, we get
into this thing, we have dinner and shit, you know, so we're having this party and there's all
these women in the house and there's guys that I met from, you know, that day we were out weighing
this shit and what we were doing was weighing is the boss shows up that afternoon. He comes into
the house. He doesn't speak a lick of English. He's got this t-shirt on it with a big smiley face
on the front of it says have a nice day like this. Oh, really? Yeah. And he walks past me
and he gets back on the back of it. It's the same smiley face with a smoking bullet hole in its head
and it says or else on the back of it. He's got camo type fucking army fatigues on with a gun
belt on and a holster pistol and combat boots on. He's got the goofy fucking smiley face t-shirt.
What the fuck? And it said, I couldn't, I get to this picture is in my mind of this smiley face
and then he walks past me and it's got a smoking bullet hole in his fucking head. I'm thinking,
God, this guy is fucking insane. That's so bizarre, man. So he says, you know, he's talking about his
trip, blah, blah, blah. He says, do you want to see your stuff? And I said, yeah, let's go. He says,
first one out the door, he grabs an AR in heads for the truck. His two boys grab ARs and my guy
grabs an AR and I was thinking, oh, fuck it. I've never handled guns in my life, man. We didn't do
guns. Right, you didn't need them. Didn't need them at that level, you know, and I'll get to that too.
So I fucking grabbed one, I go out, we get in the bronc and we drive and we're going to brush and
bush and all kind of shit and we get to truck stops and as soon as the guy opens the door,
smack me in the face with this Colombian weed smell and burlap. That smell, I'll remember
if the day I die, we said make a clone out of it or something, you know, but pull these leathery
branches and leaves apart and shit like there's this mountain of shit, dude, it looked like an
ink and fucking ruin. He's got these bales stacked as high as your ceiling here, what's that about
89 feet and they're probably 20 feet wide in rows of maybe 40, 50 feet long going off into the
jungle like this of bales already packaged already ready to go and he hands me a bamboo pole about
seven foot long with a piece of pipe on the end of it cut slash like that like a hyperdermic
and he's sticking the pieces of bales like this and he's pulling out and we're using his pipe
we're testing it we're you know I'm smoking this shit I said well how many of them buckers
you got up there and his guy's up there he's kicking them off he's kicking off every one of
those you got and I got a spray can in my hand and I'm putting my mark on the on the bales right
they're weighing them as I'm going through and picking them and when I picked up you know 20
tons of whatever shit I need and I got my mark on them and they're all weighed up we go to the
house to have this party so that's when we have the coke and we go and then we get to meet the
people meet the people in dinner and after dinner party and let's kind of shit so there's all these
people around the house and I'm sitting in a chair and he's sitting in front of me and we're
translating back and forth and this guy walks in I hadn't seen this guy before comes up behind
the boss this is what I call him I'll never say his real name I always called him a boss in the
buck and he's like this in his in his ears up behind his head he's like that and he gets this
real ashen look on his face and right away I'm thinking oh what the fuck and he gets such
his drink then he gets up and he's like fast-paced walking out of the room I put my drink down on
fast-paced following his ass out of the room he goes down the hallway into the kitchen out the door
out the kitchen door onto a veranda down these fucking veranda stairs into the backyard and
he bolts off running and I'm on his ass I mean I'm following this fucking guy well what made
you want to follow dude if the guy that's owns the fucking place is running out of the house
my ass is going to right so he dives into the bushes all the floodlights are pointing toward
the house so we get into the jungle behind the lights and you can't see I ran about 20 feet
past that buck or and like dove like a sprinter off the starting blocks into the bushes and I
laid there and I'm waiting for all hell to break loose man and I'm sitting there sweating a fucking
mosquitoes the size of dragonflies and all of a sudden I I hear this voice out the back door of
the house a Spanish like this and then I hear this fucking guy laughing and now I'm thinking what the
fuck is going on man I mean just you know I'm drenched with sweat I shit all over me and he's
yeah I see him now he's in the floodlights he's walking up to the house and he's I'm brushing
myself off and by the time I get back to my chair he's already in his chair with a drink and he's
you know wiping the sweat off I sit I sit down he looks over at me and he says says to the guy
standing next to him and that guy walks over to me and goes where in the hell did you think you were
going to me yeah and that's when I told him what I told you I said you know when the big dog gets
up and runs out of the fucking house this is what I told him runs out of the fucking house
my ass is going to when he started laughing he's cracking up fucking laughing right turns out
he gets this message that his wife's coming up the mountain oh shit he's got guys all the way
up and down he's she left town knowing we were coming she was going to stay with the in-laws
while we did business and take the kids and just be out of the way right well he's having this
fucking party there's whores everywhere you know and there's all kinds of people in this mansion
right now and here he is so he figures if he runs out of there he ain't there he's not responsible
for what's going on in the fucking house right right turns out wasn't even his wife
that's what the joke was that was hilarious that was my first trip to columbia was this
fucking guy and he just turned out to be you know he's an okay guy you know he's just typical
columbian looking getting hair greased back you know long and you refer to this guy as the boss
and your boss he's the boss and is this the same guy you dealt with every time you went to columbia
every time i went to columbia did he ever get popped or did he ever get busted no never never he
actually you know we of course you know throughout the years we all lost contact one another right
this shit went down i didn't want to run into anybody right even some of the guys that where i
grew up with we you know kind of or you had to actually because when you're an ex con you can't
hang around with ex cons you know are you finally some but um yeah we uh we didn't remain friends
but we were we were good friends while that was well that was all going on he actually um if you
remember of course you know the story blow right the movie well there's a scene in the movie where
he where george and diego carlos later take their money to panamon put it in a panamol bank
and he makes a george makes the comment about wow i give you 30 million dollars and you give me
this little book back you know and they take off so later on when he wants to get out um
diego starts working on norman's k in the bahamas right on that island right that island is actually
called norman's k and that actually does exist okay and it was used exactly for that because
carlos later used it for that who diego is supposed to be a movie right so story goes on
george decides to get the fuck out of the business now it's kind of shitty he goes back down to
panamon to get his money and the guy says we should have called he said the president of
banks says you probably should have called because um your your money has been appropriated by the
the government of panamol two years prior to that three years prior to that or so my guy in
columbia told me when i would i did a job for norieg i told you this i didn't know who it was for
the guy wanted 60 000 pounds and i'm like i'm gonna fuck it as long as carlita and leo bring me the
money i don't meet anybody right i don't need to know anybody but you guys i give you you pay me
and it's kind of right exactly so they wanted 60 000 pounds and at that time
i could do 60 000 pounds but i had to go to the boat twice because i couldn't get it all in once
i didn't have enough boats to work to go you know at that time to get it all in one shot so i was
going to do this very serendipitously the serendipitously with uh with the same boat so we get 60
pounds i said give me a you know show me the boat what's it look like give me a schematic let me
show you how you're gonna load this fucking thing you know because we're gonna sit out there all
night long you can't just have the shit laying everywhere you know especially if i approach it
and leave it i mean like now now you're wide open so i find i find that in the drawings of this is
this vessel in the front of the vessel is called the foxhole and in front of the foxhole is a
maintenance bilge maintenance hatch that you get to and maintenance bilge just big enough to put 30 000
pounds of shit in you know but there's a maintenance hatch the maintenance closet you go through to
get to the hatch to get down to the bilge room you know to check whatever that needs to be checked
and those are all watertight drawers doors because they're going to the bilge of the boat right
so i said don't press your bales any bigger than you can get through that hatch put 30 000 pounds of
it put half of it down there shut that hatch and if you've ever been aboard a boat a vessel or
any kind of sea going giant ship where they have watertight doors or where they don't have
watertight doors they have a threshold that you have to step over right you step through
and into the room yep the threshold is usually 14 16 inches tall well when you close the hatch to the
bilge down below it only stuck four inches above the the floor i said put half the load down there
shut that hatch and the maintenance hatch wasn't any bigger than you know twice the size of your
table here the room itself right i said put five inches of concrete in there on that floor and
cover that fucking thing up and i'll never know it's there and put your brooms and your buckets
and your shit and your eggs and throw them all back in there huh so when i come the first night
you get the first 30 000 pounds in the main is in the main midship hold i'll get that the first
night you put that on deck i come and get it when i call you the next night you jack hammer
that hole open take that other 30 000 out and get it ready to go and i'll take it then
so i get the first 30 000 and we're headed back in we're about two hours into our trip and i get
a frantic call from the captain of that boat dude he's talking about send your chase boat back he says
the plane looked like the marine patrol or was somebody a coast guard just flew over the boat
he said send you send your boat back for us and i said you know what fuck you dude i said how do we
don't know how do we know that they don't know we're out here you know that's my getaway i that's
you know i paid for that fucker not you right right you know this is the game we play dude
is pretty much what i said to him i said you know hey you know this is the game you play right and
whether or not something would happen whether it did or it didn't it's just the way it is right well
as it turns out the next day we're unloading they're sending the shit to miami getting ready you
know keyed up for the next night turns out that they went out and boarded the vessel he has the
four cents to call back to panamog then saying we're being boarded panamanian registered vessel
so they reported hijacked at sea out of out of panamog okay the um when they boarded the vessel
there was residue from the first 30 000 pounds of shit that was in there right from in the main
shiphold right so they confiscate the vessel they arrest the crew and the captain and shit and they
tow the vessel into here into the into Tampa right they held the boat for four months for evidence
they couldn't keep the vessel because it was a panamanian registry and it was a stolen it was
a hijacked vessel right well because of all the residue and shit that was in the first hold of
the boat they never knew the other 30 000 pounds was still in there under the concrete under the
concrete they deported the boat back to to um panaman Noriega put another crew on it
so crazy oh man it was just like you know and at that time it didn't seem like anything to me it
just seemed like wow it was stroke of luck that was that's that's when Jorge George shows back
up with this handwritten note from Noriega to me in Spanish and all it said was it says
this is I said holy shit my friend how in the fuck did you do that that's all it said
you know and I wish that I kept that thing man because it's you know be worth oh my god could
you imagine ironically enough then when I was busted in 87 or 88 88 it was um this was they
were just coming to the end of operation um uh what the hell was it uh it'll it'll um it'll come to
me but when they where they got Noriega they captured Noriega and they brought him to the
United States they put him in Miami MCC metropolitan correctional that's where I was
they put him in the same fucking place I was but we never knew one another but they put him in the
seg you know where you're so what segregated segregation and um it's a whole different
yard that you can get into and so like that but we could see each other through the fences
you knew what he looked like oh yeah who'd know where Noriega looked like man that's a
popped marked face and shit just a short fucking guy yeah it's a piece of shit you know really nobody
I ever wanted to deal with but I didn't have to deal with him directly right I'll take his
goddamn money for sure yeah but um yeah that was kind of ironic we wind up the same place together
at that at that time but he wound up doing he finished his time here in in America about five
years ago and he was um extradited to France where he'll he'll probably die in prison in France
oh he's in prison right now in France oh yeah oh wow yeah but that's my little run in with that
wow fucking crazy crazy shit how does it make you feel nowadays seeing the shit that's going on
especially in like in our country and in Florida with like the where they're regulating the pop
business and I think there was like some company I just read the other day that some company this
happened like in March or something but a company called True Leave bought another company for like
two and a half billion dollars harvest a company called Harvest was purchased for two billion
dollars for Florida dispensaries fucking crazy shit I'm kind of thinking I should get some
fucking credit bad or some some shit you know but I didn't do too bad you know I mean you read the
book the book really really tells you know the the the whole tale from yeah from A to Z and
when they change the federal sentencing guidelines to those absurd mandatory minimums that means
that meant none of us were getting out of prison right I mean well you only mean what did you what
did you actually get charged with you mean time wise yeah like initially 160 years mandatory to
live 160 oh and 16 million dollars in fines because there's a one million dollar fine yeah look at
that 2.1 billion blockbuster deal with Arizona's biggest marijuana company oh Jesus Christ yeah
they bought I think it was truly yeah Florida so the man so True Leave the largest marijuana
company in Florida bought Harvest the largest marijuana company in Arizona for 2.1 billion
dollars he's probably paying off in the first year you know at the prices that they're selling
this shit for dude I got a medical card but I'll be god damned if I'm gonna go spend you know 60
dollars on it oh it's so over fucking price it's insane you know it's really insane and it and it
and it's it's worse for the patients you know because I know what it costs to grow this shit
so does anybody else that grows it they know what it costs very little you know up front costs yeah
because you're doing high to punish you doing lighting you know all those all this new type
shit yeah you know that's going on it's an expensive to start up and you very rarely within the first
five years or so see any red you know it's just that way but at the prices that they're selling
the shit at man you think it would be I mean it's insane man it is this is stupid but well these
are not putting people in jail though you know at least they're not fucking locking people up for
10 years for selling a dime bag right you know and that's another thing too when I'm what I was
speaking about the mandatory minimums when they arrested us and our crew I was I was one of the
first 38 to go I don't know if you have that picture or not of the of that front page but
yeah we have it what what wound up happening is after that first you know they said it had 150 tons
over 150 tons after the first two three weeks what they what they realized was that that
that almost nearly 400,000 pounds was only about a week's work that's when they knew what kind of a
can of fish they opened up then when they started affecting these arrests the first 38 went and then
and then it's so on and so on and it happened by way of you asked us earlier by way of a guy that
was part of the crew had been part of the crew for raised and born and raised there right was
doing some crazy cocaine shit in columbian and got himself busted and put in prison well the
government u.s. government found out that he was in prison down there and who he was where he lived
and all this kind of crap and he was associated with us they went down there and offered him a
deal said look we'll get you out of here if you can do this for us we need you know this is what
we need well they got him out and brought him back put him right back into our our group we never
knew he was gone we never knew he was in columbian never knew he was you know i had any problems or
anything like that he just all of a sudden you know he was gone now he's there hired him as a
chase boat driver oh no for a job that i put together with 57,000 pounds because i was splitting
the load between two places pine island and everglades city and he was the chase boat driver on
the pine island side of it so they knew about it right from the right from the get go now what happens
is the bust goes down nobody gets caught they get all it was in the paper actually back then they
called it the pine island dump because of the weed everywhere man then everybody took off like
flies gone you know so um um this guy who they who they call i'm gonna say any names yeah the guy
that they caught you know starts telling some of the younger crew you know these guys and dude it's
over they got you man they get you they know your name they know who you are blah blah blah they've
changed everything around now it's a mandatory 40 years brother you're gone at least 40 years
no doubt about it and there's no parole none you do 85 percent of your time and when you tell a
19 20 year old kid that he's gonna tell on these fucking grandma oh yeah you know oh yeah so it started
out with just a couple of them you know a couple of the younger guys that they knew they they could
roll and then it then that's when the the shit started to happen you know the people started
to become invisible because names were being said and began a domino effect but along with that
domino effect and this is an interesting part about it now this was given to me information given to me
by um uh the supervisor for united states homeland uh security here in south west florida and the
supervisor for united states customs at the time told me that they understood that you know while
they're affecting these arrests that they're only arresting kids all the adults have already been
arrested man there's nothing but kids left so giving a mandatory life sentence and all these
ridiculous million dollar fines to a bunch of kids just didn't really kind of sit good with them
didn't sit with them so what they did was by design rather than by accident they incorporated
within these plea agreements to the people that they're catching these kids that they're catching
you say look you tell us everything you know everybody you know everything that you've done
will give you immunity from prosecution from everything that you've done except for one count
we'll hold one count back so we can you know we got to give you something yeah you know and at that
point depending on your cooperation how substantial or whatever it may be would determine whether you
gotten going home you're getting parole you're getting two years you're getting another year
you know what are you going to get you now they can sentence you if you cooperate guidelines state
they can now sentence you below the mandatory minimums that's the only way you're dodging a
life sentence is if you cooperate so what happened was by the language of that cooperation
plea agreement was by giving them immunity jimmy can tell on you freddy can tell on you
your name's already been spoken you got immunity you can't be hurt
they get immunity they get immunity everybody's telling and running saying names but they all
have immunity so they can't hurt one another and it was it was an amazing thing about how they did
it was and and it didn't matter that at the time that you know a lot of the guys are saying a lot
of the same names all that told the government was they're getting all the right people
but putting kids away for life for hauling pot when just the year before their fathers and uncles
and grandpas and cousins and shit are doing 8 10 12 months and getting hot and going home and
you're going to get a life sentence for it didn't really set easy for them but what it did manage
to do was the government was able to find its conscience well yeah i mean it was it was unprecedented
yeah you know in the fact that you know if it hadn't been you know us kids you know if it had
been a bunch of guys toting guns and shooting and that was another thing too when none of us carried
guns right fuck man we could run around with cutoffs and bare feet right you know that's our
that was the right the clothing you wore that was the island garb man you know you worked on the
boat you go out crab fishing you got on a pair of a slickers and a pair of boots right fishing boots
and under that you got a pair of cutoffs on so what they weren't willing to do at that time when
they pronounced these significant sentences or these guidelines was put away kids for the rest
of their lives so what they did was they offered them this agreement and within the agreement was
that clause was that escape valve which allowed everybody to say look did they said your name
john um dude you're going to prison but if you cooperate with them tell them me tell them my
name give them jimmy's name give them freds give them paul's name tell on them cooperate with them
and you can't hurt them they already got immunity right see so it worked out great and it comes to
a guy like me and fuckers they want to know who i'm seeing in miami all the time who i'm flying
where am i flying out of the country to two three times a month and we know what we got
pictures of the plane you get on and you get off you know they had everything man and i said well
you know what guys i said this is something that you're gonna have to figure out on your own
i said because when i start that shit i'm opening up a can of worms that just can't put the lid back
on even though throughout all the years that this was done it was you know our fathers and uncles
and grandpas and people like that and us kids not a single shot was ever fired not a nick not a gun
was ever seen i never saw a fucking gun that's fun that's crazy man and there's a there's a really
very simple reason for that it's because of the sheer volume of money that's being made right
and the amount of money being put forth to make that it was very insignificant to make you know
but what made the cocaine aspect of it in miami why was there so much death there was like an
untold amount of death in miami because it was very easy to bring into the country because of you
know if you bring a 10 000 pounds of cocaine in the country you can do it relatively easy
10 000 pounds of fucking weed and fill this room right you know that and the fact that there's more
money involved in it lot more money because you can take that pure cocaine you can chop it down to
make you make one kilo into four but by the time that kilo gets to united states it's worth at that
time i think kilos were about 30 grand now they're somewhere around 65 grand but you can turn that
30 000 into you know almost a million if you're a dealer you know so that's the reason for the
big deal with cocaine then the crack came along right you know so now you're making more money
off the cocaine by selling the crack rocks right you know and that kind of thing i really don't
know how the chemistry works or how the math works on all of that but i just know that you know it's
it's a something that we never agreed with really i mean we all had our share of coke and we'd do it
you know till we got sick of doing it but right wanting to get into doing that now and people
asked me well do you see the nature of the drug the nature of the cocaine the people that you're
selling the cocaine to like it's it's that stigma it's that whole crowd it's that people you're selling
it to you know at that time it was considered you know the for the rich the wealthy the fabulous
the you know this right well then then the miami became a wash in it and now grams are going
when grams were going for 120 bucks now they're going for 50 you know
or you get an eight ball for a hundred bucks right or some shit like that right now everybody's
doing it yeah and everybody's making money and everybody wants to make money so everybody wants
to be that cocaine cowboy man everybody wants to be the man and you start killing them you're
killing your competition that's what started the war in in 1979 or seven 1980 somewhere between
in their time magazine wrote an article about miami and they called it paradise lost i remember
that was the across the front of the magazine paradise lost and that's because miami was
was being run by the cartel literally and they called on the united states government to come
down and help because they couldn't handle it right now you got cops run around with 38s and
they're being you know shot at with automatic weapons you know ak-47s you know military style
weaponry right um the the first hint of this was the uh um daedlan massacre there it is yeah
there it is exactly wow man the uh legendary times cover yeah and what led and what brought that on
was that that fight what turned it into a fight with the united states government rather than
the state government was uh um they called it the daedlan massacre these guys um these cooking
cowboys cubans went in there to a abc liquor store to kill two guys two guys they killed
everybody in the store plus they shot anybody that was walking around in the parking lot too
and then left that set the pace that that was a whole new ball game now the cops are outgunned
you're gonna go up against you're gonna go up against an ak with a 38 i don't fucking think so
so they had to rethink their whole strategy they had to bring the united states government in
that's when the whole shit went down so that's when they said look we got this under control now
let's see what's going on over here so that's when they started knocking on our door you know
although we weren't violent in any stretch of the imagination we weren't violent and there's no way
that that crap that was taking place in miami could have ever found its way to everglades city
and that being taken over because it's a little fishing village it's been there since the early
1800s it's family oriented it's 10 000 islands you don't know shit dude unless you're raised there
i can lose you in two i can lose you in 30 seconds right and you'll be one island away from town and
not know it and you probably die there you know it's just the way it is so you don't come in and
take an area over like that you take advantage and make use of the people in the infrastructure
that's already there that's why nobody fucked with us right nobody wanted it because they couldn't
we had the vessels we had to know how we had the ability we had the you know the wherewithal
so that's how it managed to go for as long as it did it's incredible and how you were so close
you were just a hop a skip and a jump away from that metropolitan hellhole called miami yeah and
you know there was so much going on there was so much killing and so much of that going on that
you know it gave law enforcement a bad taste in their mouth regardless of which product you were
you were messing with they came in every great city with shotguns and rifles and you know i mean
the guys are you know the captains run around yelling make sure your rifles are loaded make
sure your shotguns got plenty of ammo and you're like what the fuck yeah are you raiding a village
in nom or something right oh fuck me man most of the guys that the second time around they're just
we're just older guys you know and a lot of them didn't even smoke weed right they just did it because
there were supplementing an income that the government tried to fuck them out of so they
sat in a front porch smoked cigarettes just wait for the show to start nothing they could do about it
oh my incredible man and then fascinating yeah so um there was uh talking about this guy out
ron my buddy um from the cia he was involved with um we had done a job one day or one night
actually um we were pretty ballsy sometimes we brought this boat right into town right into
everglades city loaded with bales on below deck you can only get so many pounds you know you
probably get maybe depending on the size of the boat maybe 15 000 pounds of bales stuff just right
under the boat we bring it right into town and park it and go away from it till till dark and
then come back well somehow somebody walked past there they're tourists or somebody who's looking
at the boats and shit and they smell the fucking weed and they call the cops and they bust the boat
here comes the you know the dea and you know the sheriff's department everybody in there and my buddy
ron when he's showing me those pictures of my money and the mba and my imbi guys like this
he's got a picture of himself and and his other buddy ron in the bilge of our boat this boat was
called um um risky business the crab boat and they got pictures of them down below you know
amongst the bales you know you know big deal and they got them lined up it's a perfect name for your
boat they got them lined up on the dock the bales are stacking up they got pictures of them like
this and that so long story short the boat gets confiscated obviously and they tow it out of there
well these boats when they're taken you know like this they go up for government auction
anybody can go bid on these boats so what do what do our guys do go to government auction
and bid on their own boat and buy it back wow they go I shit you not that boat should be in the
museum they put it in check this out though they get to the auction they out they don't care what
what the costs you know right outbid everybody in the fucking they got money to spare right so they
get the boat they bring it back the re-register it changed the name to still kicking this is like
a big fuck you that's awesome yeah that's fucking awesome so you ended up doing four years yeah four
years told or did they get all your cash that picture they they I mean they put it back in the
safe yeah no no no that wound up going to the government took all your money well the lawyer
took a lot of it yeah in cash you know lawyer the attorney I hired here in town it was too high
profile of a case for him right so he was kind of freaking out a little funny usually attorneys
like the high profile yeah well this wasn't your typical fucking dime bag salesman right right
but um he says my father-in-law so pretty high priced you know criminal attorney out of Baltimore
he said let me give him a call he cost me 750 grand oh just to start off with you know but he he did
wonders he'd you know he was he was worth every dime wow man um what it wound up being was excuse me
the um I'm sitting here at my attorney's office and and he's when I sit down he slides what's called
discovery familiar familiar this is all the evidence that the prosecuting attorney has against you
they can't hold anything back they have to give you all of it no surprises and that fucking thing is
this deep with paper wow everybody that said my name that that knew me as who I was wow you know
because a lot of people don't know I mean there's hundreds of people I mean five crews there was an
Everglades City crew there was a Goodland crew Marco Island crew a Naples crew and a Pine Island
crew we're talking anywhere from seven to a hundred guys on each crew there's no way that
may be just a handful of know who the boss is like I told you earlier nobody gives a shit right right
but ultimately it comes to light that yeah you know I'm the guy I'm just doing the shit and I'm
setting the deals up actually I was set up one day and didn't realize this until after I had gotten
busted I was sitting in a in a bar in a club down in Naples owned by the the ex-sheriff's son
and I was having a conversation with a guy about unloading his shrimp boat you know talking money
and deals and when and we you know walked away from that and nothing really came of it which
usually happens and I get busted that day that day I get busted they get hauled into Fort Myers
I'm in the federal building and I'm talking to the guy and this guy looks over at me and goes
get big white fuzzy beard and he's got white white hair and he says hey Timmy remember me
and I'm looking at him like this he's a little bit older I just do this at him like this I said
oh man you're that fucker had a drink what's in the bar that day aren't you
said that's me I was setting up and I was set up by that guy who owned the bar doing a deal for
this but they never busted me for that right because there was nothing you know right to come
of it but ultimately when they did figure out you know who I was they that's when they wanted to
know who's in Miami and who's in South America and all this like this and I said look you just
shoot me shoot you and your whole family shoot everybody I know my family and all this kind of
shit because you know even though there was no violence involved ever in anything that that we
did you pop the cork on one of these fucking guys and they're gonna do exactly what they're very good
and that's shutting you the fuck up so I couldn't tell him anything I couldn't tell him anything
about that I had to take my lumps you know but my saving grace came when everybody else was
getting this deal I mean we're talking about hundreds of guys I you know there were kids
19 20 years old you know bail handling and shit um my saving grace came um after you know like about
seven eight months of sitting in Fort Myers County jail uh two United States treasury
officers came to visit me a man and a woman two identical brown vested suits and they pulled out
their little gold badges slapped them against the window they had me all chained up inside this room
with a you know Burger King thing that you're talking to me and um I said you know right I
right out loud I said you know what I said this is about cooperation I see you just open that door
up and you know send me home or send me back to myself because that ain't happening Susan Dal Tuva
who was the United States prosecutor who was prosecuting me at that time she was in the next
room she heard me say that she comes running into the room she goes no Timmy she says you know
cooperation isn't really what we're looking for because we know that's not possible for you she
said but what we would like to know is how you guys were able to do this for nearly a decade and we
couldn't catch you and I said well game over I can tell you that I'll tell you how stupid you
fuckers are right so that's when I started telling them about driving the shit out of town and waving
at you probably half the time we're going out of town and how how do you think we got all that stuck
to Miami man it was like going on like this and you had no clue you know and um so I start you know
then these investigators from your attorney's office want to come and talk to me so
almost every other day I'm getting shackled and cupped and I'm taken outside the jail and here
downtown Fort Myers and I'm doing the convict shuffle with all these chains and shit on into
the next building right and I start telling them you know how stupid they are how we do this how
we do that you know there's no names but you know you figure it out if you can fucking figure it out
okay I had one of the guys on the crew was a um Everglades national park ranger he was one of my
best friends he was on my crew he introduced me to a guy in Miami who was a counter surveillance
technology expert he worked with the government on their surveillance technology I was getting the
same if not better technology that the government was getting I had handheld radar had had um at
that time they were perfecting starlight scope night vision from the vietnam war you know I had
three of those yeah all kind of cool shit wow I had a um a little rf detector it was about half
this size it was about this big size of a deck of cards um they'll switch on top a little red light
in a in a telescopic antenna that I can unscrew off and put a wire antenna on it I could take that
wire put that thing in my pocket run the wire down my pant leg and I'm walking to the club if this
thing starts to vibrate somebody's somebody's recording it's picking up or sending a signal
somebody's picking up a radio frequency rf it's the radio frequency detector so if I feel this
thing right vibrating in my pocket I just walk around the club till I find out who's carrying it
really yeah and when I get home at night then I unscrew the wire put the telescopic um antenna
back on it pull it out and sweep my house when I get home that's the coolest shit man you know
and when we this is all part of having ramped up our operation once the grown-ups and us kids took
over yeah now we're all using the kind of boat that I showed you the teacraft that was very popular
another boat that was very popular shallow drafting boat was made by a couple of brothers
Morgan brothers made boats in Naples you know the more I'm familiar with Morgan's yeah I don't
know that but I'm from the Morgan boats yeah excellent boat um so we changed all over to those
you know we got rid of them all at skiffs you know what those are yep with the little motor in the
middle kind of old-fashioned kind of shit but they were great at the time because that's all
there really was and the everybody was really fond at that time of the 235 Evan roots you know
because they were the most dependable and powerful engines at that time as far as torque
so um there were so many teacrafts at that time during the late 70s early 80s and through the
mid 80s there's so many teacrafts around southwest Florida people had to start hiding them keeping
them out of sight because I mean it takes like 25 or 30 of these to unload us you know a 40 ton
job you know to get it into shore and then everybody takes them home and hides them and
shit like this right we had and I told you about the the logistics of the older generation and the
problems they had with their mechanics and keeping boats running and shit like this well we had one
mechanic sammy one mechanic for all these boats and when you call him if you had a problem with one
of your 235s no matter where you were your every glaze goodland marco naples wherever
he doesn't come with a truck in a box of wrenches to wrench on your fucking engine he brings you a
new engine because it's always been said that if this fucker left me sitting it's not gonna
give i'm not gonna give it a chance to let me fucking sit again get it off my fucking boat right
well people say you know people always ask me about well we're all breaking in new engines i mean
how can you put a hand can't put a brand new engine on there and haul loads like that around
well duh of course not we must have known at that time between all of us every
every private um charter captain that there was fishing in those days you know six-pack
charter captains we'd give them a 235 evan root just give it to him to use and then sammy would
make note and keep track of all the engines he's got into all these people and when they run so
many hours on him he takes them out swaps them out gives him a new engine takes that engine puts
it back in the crate so when we call him he brings us an already broken in 235 hangs on a boat we're
good to go that's how you sharpen up to fucking out that's how you shape up an operation man
that's incredible not only that this is funny fuck one of the guys on the crew was
was the son of one of the sheriff deputies in everglades city there's only three i mean
there's a sheriff and two deputies i mean god's like right barney fife and you know
so when his dad was on duty you know it was like the back door was open
he usually worked the night shift you know it just shit was coming shit was coming
shit was coming man it was one night i don't know if it's him or whoever was in the car i'm unloading
at the everglades national park ranger station it's right there in the middle of town lights on
in the parking lot and all kind of shit like that there and this is in early days this way back when
and i'm eliminating all the other people out of the play i'm eliminating everybody except the
mother ship and the and the two boats that i hired to bring it in the two crab boats i hired to
bring it in typically they bring it in and then the little boats grab it take it to the house you
know the story blah blah like that well i cut everybody out of the picture and brought those
two boats right to the docks at the at the everglades national ranger station and loaded that
shit in two tractor trailer trucks that were sitting there in the parking lot sheriff's car
sitting there lights on in the parking lot and the guys in the front seat like this
two in the morning sheriff sleeping trucks getting loaded and you know i don't tell that
i don't tell that very often because you know you can't make this shit up man no and there was a
i mean it just gets better there's a guy um two marine patrol guys in in marathon and in marathon
they they put up a um a weather type of a weather balloon they call it fat boy and it mounted below
it was a was a radar device so they cranked this thing out there on a cable i don't know
four five six hundred feet thousand feet in the air this was a you know good size
looked like a blimp a good year blimp but it was downscaled well they could watch
through radar this the traffic lanes coming through the the yucatan pass we call it the gap
there's the um um the um yucat there's the uh western coast of uh cuba and the eastern coast
of the yucatan and that's where we had to come through to get to southwest florida well they
had this goddamn rager up there that's watching and they turn it on every night and they put a vhs
tape and have it running through recording so they don't have to monitor it just in case and they
file it away in case anything else comes under sus the suspect they can go back and review you know
whatever so being that there's two guys down there in marathon we always went in when we were
when we were um lobster fishing we'd always stop and and spend the night at a hotel and
really nice resort called the buccaneer so um one of the guys was single the other guy was married
had kids and just like that because we had guys following him i had a couple of guys that live
in marathons watch these guys well the one guy that was single uh really liked having dinner at
the buccaneer you know because it was a cool place to hang out in a bar in a grill and that kind of
thing and it was on the water and stuff so um it took one of my dumb ass buddies down there i mean
this guy was you know had had about as much education as you can get out of number two pencil
it's about this big you know so i said look what you need to do is go in there and i had a bag of
money at a hundred grand i said go in there sit down next to the guy put the bag down on the floor
next to you and have to strike up a conversation and and it's a real simple dude he's either going
to grab you you try to grab you and in that case and you've run your fucking ass off grab the bag
but run your ass off or he's just going to sit there and listen to you talk so sammy takes the
bag and goes in the guy sitting at the bar and we can see through the window we're in the car
and we're watching in there and he's in there 10 minutes 15 minutes i'm thinking what the
fuck is he asking this guy for a date or what and he gets up and he walks out gets in the car and
we drive off had he i said had he grabbed to try to grab you you dive in the window and we're down
the road we're in that teacraft of ours and we're halfway across florida bay before he gets his car
started but turns out he just sat there kept the money what we did was asked him to turn that vcr
off don't turn the radar off let's turn the vcr off at a certain day at a certain time for so many
hours as our boat's coming through the yucatan because when you're coming through the yucatan
and you change from one shipping lane to another there's shipping lane that goes to houston new
orleans and tampa for bigger vessels if anything strays out of those shipping lanes they become
suspect and you know they may get looked at they may not get looked at you know it depends
so we have him turn it off for so many hours at time so he can get out of the shipping lanes and
into the crabbing lane where all the crabbers are or the uh um shrimp boats are it's as simple as that
insane but if you think about it you know in those days if you offer a cop or you offer a marine
patrol or any one of these guys you know park ranger ten times their annual salary just to go
over there for two hours and go to sleep and what the fuck do you think they're gonna do right they're
gonna go take a nap for christ sake right give a fuck what you're doing now in those days it was just
that easy that's amazing that's fucking amazing well dude we just did like two and a half hours
sweet i appreciate we just got started man i know we gotta do a part two of this man when i get my
tooth vector the mangrove's knocked out the other day oh where can people go buy your book um
check it out on amazon they're selling a amazon saltwater cowboy rise and fall of a marijuana
empire um i've seen people reselling my book for as much as 150 bucks on amazon really yeah can you
believe that shit that's wild why i don't know their limited supply well amazon buys them they
and they're gone okay and let's take what i believe what's happening is they're pushing the i'm also
on kindle in a nook okay i also have an audible version oh good did you read it or you got someone
read it no no no i put my hat in the ring yeah during uh pre-production uh but i was too late
during pre-production because i was having a contract dispute between um not so much a dispute but
rather a change in my contract where st martin's press who i contracted as my publisher had written
amazon and um audible into their contract so they would have gained any any result in residual
from those and i would have not seen it so i scratched that shit out of there okay and the
minute i did that and turned my contract back in i get a call my agent gets a call from audible
saying we'd like to advance you and royal to you separately so i got a i got a deal with audible
oh cool and i got a deal for the nook and the kindle you know the the the ebook versions of it
but those are my most lucrative deals because there's no there's literally no work to be done
other than push a button in a download where you got to print a book you got to package it you got
to send it off and all this kind of shit there's a lot of money downloads much cleaner downloads
much cleaner and more profitable because i can make up for every 5 000 units sold of my audible book
or my kindle or nook books my percentage of profit increases and up to i think 42 percent of the
cost of the book oh wow which is i mean that's very lucrative that's amazing but um what's the
book called saltwater cowboy rise and fall of a marijuana empire and my picture on the front
very cool 80s this look i got a picture i don't like to see it we have we have it don't we you got
you sent it yeah we got yeah yeah put it up on there there we go there she is saltwater cowboy
i am look at you tim you know and there's a very cool review only two reviews on the back of the
book one of them was done by kirkus kirkus is um notorious for bashing uh authors let alone new
authors but they somehow managed to give me a somewhat glowing review on the back of my book
which i was pretty impressed with you have an incredible story and the uh the author of the
book blow who wrote the guy bruce porter who wrote george young's story actually is a um
is a saint martin's press author as well so when he found out about the book he was freaking man
and wanted to get an advanced copy of it to read it and he left uh he said dude i gotta i gotta give
this guy a review he says let me offer a review for the back of the book and uh let me see if i
can find it here real quick is it on the back of the book yeah oh perfect oh yeah the book
where am i there she is which one am i you're here hold hold it close to your face so i can see it
there you go just like that so it worked out by right below okay now these are my two reviews
right here this is a kirkus review and this is bruce porter talking to the mic so we can hear you
this is bruce porter's review here and it says a wild and entertaining true story by one of the
biggest pot haulers in american history speedboat chases women columbian mansions to mic brides
tail of excess is a thrill to read go buy that book everybody buy it right now get thrilled
i'll link it i'll link it below to link it in the description for everyone to see it
yeah you know and i brought something else because real quick i want to show you this yeah i have a
website too it's www dot www dot original saltwater cowboy dot com and there's a media section in there
that has a lot of the media that i've done in there and stuff like that but this is the
uh life magazine i alluded to earlier um when uh operation everglades two came to have a glades
in 1984 one of the reporting crews i said there was so many reporters down there that there were
more reporters and cops than there were people being arrested life magazine was one of them
um they offered up a rather awesome
centerfold oh the infamous of the trouble in everglades and the subtitle says a southwest
florida town tarred with drug smuggling and most of its 600 residents say so what
18 pages that's incredible man they put in this magazine which was was pretty outstanding and
pretty unprecedented made national news all over the country it was a big deal at that time
and i felt it was necessary to write this book and tell the story about how it actually happened
without any embellishment without any bullshit regardless of whatever the haters want to throw
at me that's cool man i've had it all if you're going to understand marijuana particularly in
this day and age when it's becoming legalized or quasi legalized through medical use and what have
you i think that it's important that people understand that the true history and judge
their their first use of this medication as we call it now cannabis for the first time
not by what they see happening and taking place down the mexican border the drug the violence and
the mayhem and the death and destruction over cannabis and you know all the drugs coming across
our border um i don't particularly the cannabis i don't want people going into their first experience
with cannabis with that in their mind what they should be thinking about is how it originally
took place with my generation and the generation before us i want you to go to go into trying
cannabis for the first time thinking about that ultra cool rasta dude standing out in the middle
of 200 acres of virgin bud just you know enjoying and digging life smoking on a spliff or that little
columbian dude and all his white cotton and his white hat just out there picking and having a
good time and just enjoying life like that not no guns no doesn't know that that's the version
they should hear the version they should hear that involves no gunplay no violence whatsoever
just family oriented of course breaking the law you know i'm not i'm not advocating you know
breaking the law or smuggling in any way shape or form it's just what i grew up into you know it's
my unfortunate or fortunate circumstance if you will but people need to understand that it was not
violent it was never that violent and the reason being real quickly is because if i can spend 300
thousand dollars and buy 15 million dollars where they shit who's shooting at me nobody's shooting
at me they're giving me more money they can't get go back they can't get me going back there fast
enough so that's how it all took place so you can find a lot of that on www dot original saltwater
cowboy dot com you can look at some of my posts that i post on instagram at original saltwater
cowboy and um i gotta follow you that's it that's awesome that's what they know that ain't it you
got to have me back and we'll talk another three we're definitely gonna do another three hours
yeah man go yeah that's great yeah i'm gonna follow you right now there's this um you know some
some very interesting characters that involved in this and keep in mind that you know we're not
we're never violent dude i mean we're kids man and i think that has a lot to do with the reason
why the united states government chose to do what they did yeah and you know in retrospect now i'm
63 i look back on some of the craziness i did and like i said i could have cut a cigar with my ass all
over so far but um you know knowing that we did it in such a way that i i'm not ashamed of it
you know broke the law yeah i'm in a law i'm a fucking pot hauler but i never killed anybody
you know um not to say that that didn't happen it didn't it went on for sure i mean there were
assholes out there that just didn't give us yet you know i mean bad dudes but i don't want that to
overshadow you know the majority of the shit that was coming into the country and and the people
that were bringing it right families you know so let's leave it at that well thank you so much tim
it's been uh an invigorating two and a half hours so you got a ton of stories but i like that dude
oh it really did it really did i'm super grateful for you coming on and uh thanks for having me we'll
do it again in the future for sure yeah i'm just down the road bro only two hours right yeah well
i said somebody doesn't get ass ended on the bridge again as long as you don't get acid on the
skyway fuck ass ended on the skyway might as well bring a fucking lunch with you all right
goodbye everybody goodbye everybody thanks for listening
