What is it like being one of the most infamous warlords in the world?
I have to start with that question.
I'm sorry.
Well, I will be the first to say that I am not a warlord.
The movie that was made was called War Dogs, but I think most people when they say the
warlord is like, you know, someone who runs a militia and generally warlord just sounds
so good, though.
Yeah, I'm not to me.
I don't want to be a warlord.
But yeah, you know, I've I've never led men in battle, you know, never suppressed
the population's rights or anything like that.
Right.
I did supply weapons and ammunition for a brief period of my life a long time ago.
But you guys you guys did have posters of Nick Cage over all over your office, right?
We were fans of Lord of War at the time.
Yes, that's true.
Yeah. Yeah.
How did this whole thing start?
Like, can you walk me through your childhood meeting Ephraim for the first time?
Sure. What was your childhood like?
Were you guys really like smoking weed all day every day?
At a certain point in our lives.
Yeah, but not when we first met.
We were young teenagers.
I'm actually four years older than him.
And, you know, in the movie, they say we're the same age, but we're not.
So I was four years older than him.
I think I was like 15 or 16 when I met him.
So he was like 11 or 12.
And we we both went the way we met was both of our families are Orthodox Jews.
And so we both went to the same synagogue.
We didn't go to the same school, so we didn't know each other from there.
We both went to private Jewish schools.
But but we didn't go to the same school.
But we both went to the same synagogue.
So and neither of us like to pray.
So we would sneak out during prayers and go hang out on the basketball courts.
And and that's kind of, you know, I had friends who were like two years younger
than me and they thought he was entertaining.
And so, you know, they befriended him.
And that's kind of how he was like brought into my circle of friends.
And that's how we met.
Yeah. And so what were you doing?
What was your your primary source of income back then?
And how much influence did your religion have in your early life?
Like were your parents really pushing it hard?
So my dad was an Orthodox rabbi.
So, you know, he a member of the clergy.
So yeah, he was pushing it hard.
But I think even amongst people who know who, you know, what Orthodox Jews are like,
know that you don't need to be a member of the clergy in order to,
you know, apply large amounts of pressure to your children to be religious.
That's a major part of the of the culture and, you know, the community.
So yeah, it was a very intense, you know, by relative terms to American society,
way of growing up.
Never really liked it.
Never liked being, you know, leading the religious life.
So as I got older, I eventually dropped it completely.
Now, didn't at one point in your parents send you to Israel
to study? Yes. So got in a bit of trouble in high school.
And, you know, I they did this random drug test and
and, you know, I came positive for weed.
And of course, they all thought it was the same as like doing heroin.
So they sent me to like outpatient rehab.
And, you know, the school is going to kick me out.
But they are like, you know, if you go to Israel and study for a year,
we'll still give you your diploma.
And so, you know, I wanted to go to Israel anyway,
because a lot of my friends were going.
It's a thing that a lot of Orthodox kids do after graduating high school.
They go to a year in Israel and study.
And depending on the kind of person you are, more party than study, you know,
I was planning to do more of the partying than the studying.
But so I was I wanted to go to Israel anyway.
So I agreed and went to Israel,
ended up staying for two years.
First year, I just partied.
The second year, I actually studied.
And eventually I became a bit religious in my own way,
not in the same way as my parents, but more of like a kind of like a hippie,
you know, spiritual, meditative type of, you know,
flavor of the religion rather than the
the traditional way, which is much more based on lots of rituals and,
you know, like habitual stuff.
That's kind of how most most Orthodox
the culture is based around like a lot of very rigid rituals.
So I didn't like that.
But I didn't, you know, become a bit more religious until I left Israel,
went to University of Florida, took an anthropology course
and realized that everything I'd learned was garbage.
Yeah. So I mean, I realized that at least science contradicted
the vast majority of the claims, you know, that of what I was studying in Israel.
And so there was no objective
proof to at least, you know, the claims that
that the community I grew up in were making as far as,
you know, as far as that goes.
So I realized that I didn't have to be, you know, lead a religious life
if I didn't want it.
And, you know, that, you know, opened up my
the possibilities of, you know, finding my own spirituality.
And people have this idea of that if you're not religious, you're not spiritual.
I think that's completely untrue.
Religion is is more of a
a way that it's a way to create social structure, right?
So there's rules and there's hierarchies and and, you know,
there's an official philosophy of like how the world works, etc.
Right. Spirituality is your own personal experience.
You know, like I find a lot of spirituality in music, you know, I'm a musician.
So, you know, when I listen to music and I create music, I feel myself,
you know, become on like a different level of consciousness.
And I find it very spiritual, very fulfilling.
And I connect with myself and with the universe.
And, you know, a lot of things that the way people describe, you know,
meditating and or for religious people who go into like very deep prayer.
So there's a lot of, you know, connections between spirituality and religion,
but they are not the same thing.
And I realized that once I didn't wasn't shackled by the traditions
of this of the religion that I grew up with, I could find my own spirituality
and, you know, and that was much more effective for me.
Did the role of psychedelics help you develop this point of view,
this unique point of view that you had coming from a religious background?
And yeah.
So I did experiment with psychedelics and, you know, various other things
as many teenagers do.
And psychedelics in particular are a very spiritual drug,
you know, compared to most of the others.
And I, you know, had some pretty deep insights into myself and into, you know,
the culture that I grew up in while doing psychedelics.
One of the most intense experiences I've ever had was doing LSD
by the shore of the Dead Sea in Israel.
And like I felt like time stop and as if I was like existing
in one eternal moment that like never ended.
And because there was no time, there was no space.
And like I was the universe and the universe was me.
And like I felt it and I was it.
And I think people who've done had these kind of it's a common experience.
Actually, I didn't know that at the time for people on psychedelics
to have these types of experiences.
And it affected me for years after that, you know, just knowing that
that type of experience is possible is a very profound, you know, effect.
Is that experience, was it exclusive to LSD?
Or was it the same like with mushrooms or other psychedelics?
So for me, mushrooms were a bit different, you know, it was more
I think every every drug affects every person differently, depending on,
you know, their psychological state and the environment they're in,
the people they're in, their expectations, the dose they take.
It's a big difference.
So but for me, mushrooms have always been
well, once you get past the nausea part, which is not fun.
It's been more of like a fun thing.
And and, you know, like you laugh and you see cool things.
And but with LSD, it's always been a lot more
philosophical and introspective for me.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute
to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now
after it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist
Dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast.
I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition, diet
and longevity, because as we get older, these things become more and more important.
That is why I started using Verso.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being this one right here,
which contains nicotine amide mononucleotide or NMN based supplement
paired with naturally derived, micronized, trans-resveratrol and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotanamide
iodine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD.
And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy, cell repair and longevity.
If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting
and you've gotten that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity,
it's because your body is activating these genes called sirtuins,
which are actually longevity genes.
The downside is as we age, NAD declines.
When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of sirtuins
and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold.
And it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout
to save 15% on your entire order.
That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get 15% off your entire order.
Or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
It's linked below back to the show.
So I don't know why, you know, one is the other,
but that's how my brain chemistry works. Right.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
I know that because I know I know there is a deep connection
with psychedelics and ancient religions. Yeah.
I've learned more about that recently.
I don't know a ton of the nuances about it, but I know there's been studies
that have shown like the ancient Greeks and the Romans
have took a certain type of plant
that was responsible for some psychedelic experiences
that can explain some of the some of the texts that would make a lot of sense.
I mean, you know, when they when it says that Moses saw the bush burning
but wasn't being consumed, right, the burning, yes.
You know, I mean, that's I could easily see that while I'm on mushrooms.
You know, we're mescaline or whatever, you know, that's fast.
And so you're doing this.
And had you already become a masseuse at this point
where you had you started making money with massage therapy?
And so when I went to University of Florida after Israel,
I was 20 years old because I'd spent, you know, 18 to 20 in Israel.
And I realized that I'd have to pay for my own college.
And and I didn't want to get a minimum wage job,
you know, because all my friends were flipping burgers and whatever,
making five, six bucks an hour.
And I was like that, you know, that really sucks.
And I had been in a car crash when I was 17 and got whiplash.
And so I always had like neck issues and I was always trying to fix them.
And then while I was in Israel, I was at a music festival
and the local massage school there had a had free massages, you know,
like a booth where they were giving out free massages.
And I got my first massage, professional massage there.
And it like fixed a lot of my issues and I was like blown away.
And so I realized that I could learn to be a massage therapist.
And make like 75 to 100 bucks an hour instead of five, six bucks an hour.
And so I could, you know, do one hour of work in a day
and make more than my friends were making in the in eight hours in a day.
And I could learn how to, you know, fix my own issues.
And, you know, and it doesn't, you know, hurt with the ladies, you know,
that your professional massage therapist, you know, they tend to like that too.
So it was like a win, win, win.
So a massage school, I did an accelerated program.
I did it in six months, got certified.
And when I was 20 years old, I got my massage therapy license
and started practicing part time while I was in college.
And at what, at what point were you sourcing bedsheets?
So selling them to yeah.
And to what? To who are you telling him to?
Nursing homes, nursing homes.
OK, nursing homes and some hospitals. That's fascinating. Yeah.
So is that something that you concocted?
Or is that something that you kind of like got the idea from somebody else?
So what had that happened?
Because one of my friends, one of my friends who I had met in Israel,
his dad owned a few nursing homes and his dad put him into business
after he came out of he came back from Israel
in the nursing home supply business.
So he was, you know, buying from wholesalers, you know, bedsheets, towels,
various medical equipment and selling it to his dad's nursing homes,
but also to, you know, the other nursing homes in the business.
And he told me, but he would only buy from like distributors in the United States.
And he told me, look, you know, I know that because at the time
I had gotten into selling SD cards.
You know, it was like importing them from China.
I found like bulk SD cards in China and I was selling them on eBay.
I was making decent money because they're tiny.
They're easy to ship and easy to store. So it was perfect.
And and so, you know, I, you know, we were we were talking and
schmoozing as us Jews say and you schmoozing, you schmoozing, you schmoozing
with the Jews. So so we were talking and I told him about the SD card thing.
And he's like, oh, you know, so you like doing some importing, you know,
how to find sources, you know, if you find sources for what I'm selling
and you give it to me cheaper than what I'm buying it from those guys,
I'd be happy to buy from you.
So he gave me the stuff that he, you know, would sell.
And I started Googling and looking online for sources and started asking for prices.
And after, you know, a few weeks, I got, you know, pretty good prices,
much better than his distributors were given him.
And so I started importing bedsheets and towels and bibs and things of that nature.
Wasn't just bedsheets, but but a lot of the consumables, the textiles in particular.
And I was mostly sourcing them in Pakistan because Pakistan apparently is
very competitive on towels and bedsheets.
And and so I started selling to him.
I started selling to other people and that's, you know, that's how I got into that.
But unlike the movie, I never was going like from nursing home to nursing home
with a bunch of bedsheets.
I was just doing everything in bulk.
So like I wouldn't even take possession of the goods, you know,
so my apartment was not filled up with bedsheets as they portray in the film.
Yeah, I wouldn't even take possession.
I was just being a broker.
Yeah. It's interesting to me how you have this unique perspective
at such a young age to get into arbitrage like that, to get into sourcing things
for a certain price and selling them for a higher price.
That seems like it's a very rare trait for somebody in their early 20s.
I don't I don't think I knew anybody when I was that age
that was doing that kind of thing.
Well, my first business, I started when I was six.
So it's a cute story.
My I was living in Israel at the time.
So I was born in in St. Louis.
But but my parents moved to Israel
for my dad's work because he was a rabbi when I was a baby.
And I grew up there until I was eight years old and came to Miami.
And while we were living in Israel, I was six years old.
And there was this we lived in an apartment building with that didn't have
an elevator or a garbage chute.
So you'd need to like take the trash down the stairs
to the low into the corner to the dumpster and haul it over into the dumpster.
And our mom, you know, would ask, you know, the kids to take out the trash.
You know, occasionally I'm one of nine children, by the way.
Oh, wow. Yeah. I'm number three from the top.
But because I'm one of the older ones, you know, I got a lot of the work
initially before the younger ones grew up.
So so our mom asked my older sister and I to take out the trash
and, you know, we were complaining, oh, it's so hard to take out the trash.
We don't want to do it. It's, you know, it's you have to walk so far.
You have to go down the stairs.
And my dad says to us, you know, you guys are looking at this all wrong, right?
Instead of complaining that it's such a chore,
you couldn't look at this as an opportunity.
Think about all of our neighbors who don't like to take out the trash, too.
Right. What if you go to them and you say, hey,
every other day, I'll come and pick up your trash and take it to the dumpster,
right, because people don't empty the trash every day.
Every other day is fine.
And you give me like, you know, a quarter a week, right?
And so we're like, oh, money, I like that.
So we were like, that's a good idea.
So we went to all our neighbors and we made them the software
and we signed up, I think, seven or eight neighbors.
And we got like our mom's big like shopping cart is this wire thing
on on like wheels and we'd fill up the cart with like trash bags and, you know,
kuchunk, kuchunk, kuchunk down the stairs, you know,
into the corner to the to the dumpster and empty it.
And after about a week, you know, my sister and I were like,
this is so much work, you know, because it's physical labor and we were small.
And so my dad goes and we're told our dad, oh, we're going to quit.
This is too much work.
And my dad says, well, what if they paid you made twice as much money?
Would you quit then?
And we're like, well, twice as much money.
Maybe we would. Maybe that's worth it.
And he's like, so then tell them that you're going to raise the price.
And we're like, but we can't just tell them that we're going to raise the price
because we just told them what the price was a week ago.
And he's like, but if you don't raise the price, you're going to quit.
So they either want it or they don't, right?
And we're like, that's true.
So we went to all the neighbors and we're like, we're raising that.
We're doubling the price to 50 cents a week.
And they most of them, like, accepted it.
One neighbor complained, they're like, you can't raise the price,
you know, double the five cents this week, maybe 10 cents next week, you know,
you know, but we're like, no, that's the price we stuck to our guns.
He's like, fine, fine, you know, and he did it.
And one neighbor quit on us.
And from then on, we always saw their daughter take out the trash,
which he'd never done before because I guess they realized
why are we paying the neighbors kids to take out the trash
when we have a perfectly capable kid of our own to do it.
So so that was our first, that was the first business.
And that lasted after a few weeks.
My sister quit because she just decided she didn't want to do it.
And I realized if she quit, I'm getting double the money again.
So, you know, so this is totally worth it.
So I kept on going for like a few months and I built up like a big
ziploc bag filled with, you know, shekels, you know, about the value of a quarter.
And wait, this was in this was in Israel.
Oh, this is still in Israel.
Yeah, in Israel. Yeah, they're shekels.
I say a quarter just so people understand what the value is.
But a shekel is worth about a quarter.
So I had a big ziploc bag of quarters and I felt very rich.
And every time there would be an ice cream truck that would come by every day,
you know, with its little ice cream song and I would be like, I have money.
I couldn't go buying myself an ice cream.
And so every day I would buy myself an ice cream and I became a fat little six year old.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
Yeah, the money thing is very interesting to me how your your parents
or your father instilled the value, even at six years old, you understood the value of money.
Right. Well, I knew I wanted ice cream and I knew you wanted ice cream and it costed money.
Exactly. Yeah.
And my dad was not going to buy it for me.
So really? Yeah.
So if the ice cream truck came by prior to this.
Oh, my parents never bought us ice cream.
Never would buy you.
What would they say to you?
Say, dad, I want ice cream.
It's not a special occasion.
Really? Yeah.
Interesting.
I feel like that's a very rare lesson that gets taught to kids at the age of six in this country, especially nowadays.
Yeah. Yeah, it's true.
Yeah. So that is something that got instilled in you in a very young age and stayed with you.
Yeah. You kind of that's kind of what.
Helped you evolve into the business of arbitraging stuff sourced in different countries
such as bedsheets for old folks homes and retirement centers and stuff like that.
Yeah, I've always been looking for opportunities and it's just something that.
So it's something that you it's something that you and Ephraim had in common.
Yes. He was just a little bit different in his tactics.
He yeah, he definitely was a bit different.
But so at what point did you at what point did you and Ephraim reunite?
So we reunited when I was about 23.
I had been in college for a few years.
You know, the bedsheets thing was going.
The electronics from China thing was going pretty well.
And he came back.
He came back.
He was 19 years old and he came back from LA.
He had been sent to LA, I think, when he was about 16 or so,
because he got he got kicked out of school for smoking weed as well.
But his parents, the way they dealt with it was they decided to send him over
to to work for his uncle, his uncle.
You know, I guess the idea was, oh, if you're not going to take school seriously,
you're going to work in the real world, you know.
And so they sent him over to his uncle, who owns a big pawn shop in South Central LA.
And he had him working in the in the warehouse, you know, moving boxes.
And but Ephraim became obsessed with guns.
And I think from very early age, he was very obsessed with guns, you know,
some guys like cars, some guys like guitars, some guys like guns.
He was one of those gun guys.
And, you know, his uncle sold guns in his most pawn shops do.
And so he just became obsessed with and learned about every type of gun
and like where it was made and and like what the market was like and, you know,
how you could, you know, buy from here and sell to there.
He started frequenting the gun forums, the gun boards, I think they call them.
And, you know, started buying, you know, used guns from people, you know,
under his uncle's name and selling them and started making like some profit like that.
And then his uncle was selling to the local police, the local state
city and state police.
And, you know, the way you sell to the government is you have to put a bid in online.
And then the government decides who's, you know, the best, you know, price,
delivery, date, reliability, et cetera.
And so his uncle was doing that.
And so he learned how to, you know, bid on these contracts,
on these government contracts from his uncle, worked with his uncle for two
to three years, made a bunch of money and then claims that his uncle
screwed him out of a bunch of money.
His uncle claims that he screwed him out of a bunch of money, I believe in both,
you know, so it's just, you know, that kind of family.
But they've had issues, you know, there, but.
And so he quit and came back to Miami and decided to start his own company.
And this was in 2004.
So he started bidding on federal contracts.
This was right after the invasion of Iraq.
And so there was this huge amount of contracts going to rebuild Iraq, you know,
because the United States bombed it and took it over.
And I was trying to build a democratic new government.
And part of that is arming the, you know, their local police and army.
And so they needed a lot of equipment to do that.
And so they started putting out these contracts.
And he started bidding on these contracts.
And because he was so knowledgeable about the gun industry,
he was very competitive and he started witting a lot of these contracts
and, you know, multimillion dollar contract.
How old was he?
He was, I think he was 18 when he came back to Miami.
And then he was 19 when we started working together.
So he was working by himself in Miami for about a year before we bumped into each other.
We, he came over a mutual friend's house to smoke weed.
We were smoking weed together.
He asked me, you know, what I was doing these days.
And I told him about the bedsheets, about the, you know, the electronics, the SD cards.
And he's like, oh, that's cool.
That's cool. You know, you're doing, you know, you're finding sources.
You're doing licensing.
You're doing the same thing. Exactly.
He's like, you're pretty much doing what I do, but I'm doing it on a much bigger scale.
So, you know, maybe you can come work with me.
You know, I think you'll make a lot more money.
And I was like curious, I was like, how much money have you made?
You know, you know, because he was like 19, you know, and he's like, and he goes to me.
He's like, you know, I'm going to tell you, but not to brag.
I'm just going to, I want to inspire you.
And I'm like, he's like, you know, it's complicated because, you know,
how much money I have, like money coming in from deals.
I, you know, owe some people money.
I'm like, how much money do you have right now in the bank?
And he pops open his computer and, and he logs into his bank account and he shows me
and he had 1.8 million in cash in his bank account and he was 19 years old.
And like that blew my mind.
I was like, whoa, you know, I don't know anyone.
And I knew he made it himself.
Like his parents, you know, didn't give him that money or anything like that.
So I was like, this guy knows a business very, very well.
And, you know, I can learn a lot from him.
And so I was very inspired because I didn't have nearly that much, you know,
with all my, you know, wheeling and dealing of, you know, in my businesses.
I was like, he's obviously doing way better than me.
Not that I was doing badly.
I was more than comfortable in making a lot more money than other kids my age, you know,
but, but he was on a whole other level.
So I was like, I want to, you know, I could learn a lot from him.
So I was like, OK, I'm in, you know, let's do this.
And that's when he started teaching me, you know, like how the government
the procurement system works.
And that was when I first started learning about weapons and ammunition
and all various military equipment.
I had no idea about any of this.
I was just a musician, no science, nurse, massage therapist, you know,
but like I never owned a gun in my life.
You know, I didn't really care about guns.
But, you know, that was like his expertise.
So he started teaching me all that.
And I started learning all that.
How did he learn about the website where you can fit on these federal contracts?
Fedbizops Fedbizops.
Yeah. How did he find out about that from his uncle?
I believe so. OK. Yeah. Yeah.
So essentially, you guys would log into this this website
that list that had a list of contracts that federal government
wanted to hire small businesses for. Correct.
Well, it's it's well, it's still there.
Anyone can go check it out. I checked it out today.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can find a lot of interesting stuff they're looking to buy.
They're looking by everything.
So it's not just small businesses.
They list everything that that they want to buy over there.
I think they're required to buy law other than I think the CIA has like,
you know, probably like, I don't know, like a ten billion dollar dark money
budget that they don't have to tell people what they spend it on.
But but for the vast majority of, you know, the federal governments,
I don't even know at this point, so is it like two trillion dollar budget?
Something like that.
They have to list because by law, they have to buy things competitively
because otherwise they're wasting taxpayers money.
They have to get the best deal for the taxpayer.
So to do that, they have a website and they list everything that they want
to buy and they open it out for bid.
Now, different things, depending on what it is, there's different rules, right?
So like if they want to buy an F 35 fighter jet, there's only Lockheed Martin makes it, right?
So that's what they call a sole source contract.
They still need to list it on the site, you know, in order to inform the public.
Really? Yeah. Yeah, we're going to be spending this money on this.
But it's not an open bid.
It's not, you know, you can't bid on F 35s because you don't make it, you know,
only Lockheed Martin makes.
And usually they do something like for like the sole source contracts,
they usually do something called a cost plus contract where they'll pay the company
what it costs them to build the item plus an agreed upon profit margin.
Now, NASA has run into a lot of issues with this, which is why a lot of government
projects have a lot of cost overruns because the companies have a big incentive
to to inflate the costs after they get the bid, after they get the bid,
because the more it costs them to build, the more dollars they make
because it's a percentage of what they spend, you know?
So let's say they have a two percent profit margin.
If the thing costs them, you know, ten million dollars instead of one million dollars,
you know, they're making ten times more money, even though their margin is the same.
Exactly.
So, you know, that's why all these government projects are so overrun,
you know, why their cost overruns are so common.
But for so that's for like sole source contracts, but for most competitive
contracts, the way it works is it's kind of like it's kind of like eBay, right?
You know, they say we want to buy, you know, 10,000 guns or, you know,
100,000 meals ready to eat MREs or, you know, boots or whatever fuel at anything.
And they'll say we want these items that has to have these characteristics.
You know, we have to have it delivered to this place by this time.
Give us your best offer.
And then all the companies who are qualified to bid on that can give them
the best their best offer.
And the government looks at all the offers and decides which one has the best
value to the government, which is a combination of factors.
Usually it's combination of price, delivery, date, reliability of the supplier.
And then the government decides what's the best deal for them.
And then they pick and, you know, sign the contract to that person and that
person delivers and then they collect their check and make their profit margin.
So essentially for a couple of 20 year olds starting out, you can start a business.
You can start bidding on some of the low level contracts, a couple hundred
thousand, maybe a couple of million dollars and get your feet wet and slowly
build a reputation for yourself.
Exactly.
So, so actually the way they work is usually for contracts that are under
a hundred thousand dollars in value, they don't require what they call
past performance, which is proof that you've done business with these
kind of items before, right?
So because they feel they feel like it's a small enough amount that they can
roll the dice on people with no experience.
And, you know, if those guys have a better price, hey, maybe they can do it.
And if they fail, then, you know, the government doesn't, it's not such
a big deal to the government for a hundred thousand dollar contract.
But once you do a few of those, now you have past performance.
You can prove that you've successfully delivered these items to the government.
And now you could bid on bigger contracts, like million dollar plus
contracts that require that level of documentation and proof that you have,
you know, the experience to do that.
Do other countries and other governments have the same system set up?
Do you know most governments have a similar system?
Now, depending on, on the, you know, the corruption level of the government,
you know, some of them are more or less transparent, but most, most governments,
definitely most democracies have a more or less open bidding system.
Yeah.
Because it makes sense, you know, they want to get the most bang for the buck, you
know, they want to, you know, because they have a limited budget, right?
So they don't want to get ripped off, right?
The places you find the government getting ripped off usually are places
where there's kickbacks being given.
So Russia is famous for this.
You know, that, and there's a lot of stories out of Ukraine, you know,
like where all the Jeeps had like the cheap Chinese tires and they were like
failing on the road early in the war.
Is this recent?
Oh, yeah.
This is just recent and early in the war.
That's, that was one of the things in the news that they had, they didn't have
the proper tires because someone in the Russian military went cheap on that
contract and properly pocketed the difference.
And then they all, all their tires failed in the convoy, you know, on the way to
Kiev, you know, that was like one of the issues that they were facing.
So that's the downside of having a corrupt system is that the money isn't
spent as officially, as efficiently and, and, you know, the people that you're
trying to supply kind of get screwed.
How much attention do you pay to conflicts that are going on now?
Like, for example, that you, what's going on in Ukraine, do you, with your
background, is it you automatically drawn to these kinds of things and looking
at, looking at the deep nuances of it?
So I'm, I'm just a very curious person in general.
And even though my current business has nothing to do with, you know, any
international military conflicts, I'm, I'm just a very curious person.
So I do stay up to date.
I, I read the economist, you know, that's has, you know, I would say
medium level depth coverage on most things.
So I am, you know, very interested in those things, but just from a
personal perspective, not, not a financial perspective.
Not a financial perspective.
I mean, I do deal internationally with my current business, but, you know,
so I mean, you know, I sell music equipment to musicians now.
And, you know, we've sold to Russia.
Oh, we don't anymore, you know, but they weren't a very big market anyway.
So it wasn't a big deal for me, you know, but, but I still pay attention
to what's going on in the world.
So when you see stories in the headlines of, of the
Biden administration dropping $13 billion in Ukraine, how is that?
How is that working?
That's obviously a broad headline.
Right.
So how specifically is that all of the, the $13 billion is that broken
down on websites like FedBizOps and being bid on, or is all of this going
to big companies like Lockheed Martin and Raytheon?
Right.
How does that work?
So the way they do it, so, oh, at least with Ukraine, I know early in the war,
I don't, I don't know what they're doing.
I'm sure now they've got lots of contracts open for bid.
But early in the war, they, you know, they had to get Ukraine, everything
was an emergency, right?
So they had to get Ukraine lots of equipment as quickly as possible.
And the way they did that, I mean, if they went through the contracting
system, it would literally take months, you know, because they have to have a
certain amount of time to, to post the thing, you know, with, you know, like a
few weeks for people to notice it and to gather their, their offers.
And then the government needs to analyze it.
And then they need to award the contract.
And then they need to deliver on the contract.
And that takes minimum two months, I would say, you know, for the stuff
that you need, like military, you know, like licensing for military equipment
to move goods, military goods across borders could be longer because you
need overflight permits, you know, if you're shipping guns or ammunition.
You need to get specific permission from every country you fly over.
So that takes time.
So the way the military did it early in the war was they just gave Ukraine
from their own stockpiles, so they didn't have to buy it.
You know, so like, for example, like the high Mars that is in the news, you know,
the, the rocket launching system that is currently, you know, has greater
range than the Russian artillery, which is why Ukraine is doing so well because
they could shoot them, you know, out of their range and blow up their ammo depots.
That was stuff that the U.S.
military already had in stock for their own use.
And then they just gave all that to Ukraine on military aircraft, so they
didn't, you know, it was much easier for them to get overflight permits.
The U.S. military, you know, as already all that worked out.
And they have amazing logistics, U.S. military.
And, and now what they're doing is they're trying to replenish their
own stockpiles by going, you know, to Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman
and on all the other Raytheon, all the companies that make all this
equipment that they've given to Ukraine, and they're trying to replenish
their own stockpiles.
So that's kind of how they they got the equipment to Ukraine much faster
than they would if they did the traditional contracting route.
I just had a former CIA agent in here two days ago, and he was he was working
on the counterproliferation efforts in Iran.
And he didn't say it, but I got from what he was saying
that he did a lot of dealing in Russia, too, and what he what he was
explaining about the Ukraine Russia thing is similar to what you said.
He said that Russia's artillery, like, like if we're going for talking
about nukes, their nuclear capabilities are similar to ours.
Probably not as good.
But when it comes to like ground artillery, that we are way more advanced than they are.
Yeah. So they have quantity.
We have quality, you know, they they have massive, massive stockpiles,
or at least they did, right?
And they've been using a lot of those up now, but they have massive, massive
stockpiles, but their their technical capabilities are not as good as the Wests
in in almost all respects.
Yeah, they've got ICBM.
So yeah, I mean, they can wipe everybody off the map if they wish.
And that's a big difference.
But, you know, like their airplanes aren't as as advanced as ours, you know,
their there are, you know, their general their communication systems
aren't as advanced as ours.
You know, the West is a more technologically advanced
organization, you know, than the than the Russians are.
I mean, we have a lot more people.
We've been industrialized for a lot longer.
So there's good reasons for that.
And of course, they've dealt with a horrible history.
You know, which has held them back and they've got endemic corruption, which
and all these things are very bad for, you know, development of society
at large and and technology, you know, by extension.
So yeah, it's true.
The West is way more advanced.
And I would say that, you know, I mean, Putin knows that, you know, he knows
that the West is much more powerful.
And if it came to a conventional war, the West would wipe him off the map
easily, you know, you know, it's only the nukes that that keep, you know,
everybody from fighting each other out, right?
Right. Yeah.
Did you guys?
This might be a stupid question, but I feel like I have to ask it.
Did you guys ever do any deals involving nuclear weapons?
No, no, that's that would be Raytheon.
They make the nukes.
Oh, they do. They make the nukes.
Soul source contract.
Wow. Wow. That's crazy.
Yeah.
One of the coolest things about your story is that
from my own perspective, I didn't know
if we're just going back a year ago, I didn't know shit about
geo, geo, politic, the geopolitical landscape of the world.
Right. I've learned it by having people like you on here.
But there has listening to your story and reading that book
has been the most entertaining form of learning about the geopolitical
world and landscape and militaries than anything.
Yeah. Like so when you started this in this business with Ephraim,
how much did you know about the relationships between countries
and the different games going on?
Almost nothing.
I was like, you know, I was just like, you know, a college student.
I mean, I've always read the news, you know, I've always been, you know,
curious about the world in general.
You know, I'm I was studying chemistry in college at the time.
So, you know, I'm a bit more of a scientific bent.
You know, and part of that is just, you know, I love knowledge in general.
You know, it's just something I enjoy learning about things.
But obviously, there's infinite realms of knowledge
and the best and all of us are ignorant and almost all of them
except our own little specialty, right?
So, you know, I like being a generalist, you know,
that's you know, knowing a little bit about everything.
But I definitely wasn't focusing on on geopolitics before,
you know, working in that field.
I had a very one of my best friends, actually,
who ended up being involved in the War Dogs story later.
He was a political science major.
So he was, you know, one of these people was constantly ranting
and raving about, you know, various, you know, conflicts
and who's right and who's wrong and, you know, who's going to do what, you know,
and, you know, what their response is going to be.
So I kind of, you know, that kind of gleaned a lot of information, you know,
just by listening to him.
And he's very, very knowledgeable about that stuff because he was studying it.
But I definitely learned a lot more, you know, during the course of doing business
because I had to, I was, I was, we were doing business with all these countries.
And, you know, being even countries we weren't doing business with, like Russia,
we were being affected by because they were trying to block our overflight permits
and things like that.
So we had to pay attention, you know, like, you know, who, you know,
what did the government say recently?
You know, like, are they going to, you know, are they moving into, you know,
like various regions, you know, like just an example.
We had, we had a 747 aircraft, a cargo aircraft filled with ammo.
This is in the book that was stopped on the Tarmac in Kyrgyzstan, right?
And they claimed we didn't have the licensing, even though we did.
I mean, the plane wouldn't have taken off if it didn't have the licensing.
They always check everything before they take off, but they claim that we didn't.
And we had no idea why they were doing this.
And then it turned out that that Russia was trying to to like get the US
out of the Central Asian sphere of influence.
And so they were leaning on the on the politicians in Kyrgyzstan
to stop renting their air base to the United States in Kyrgyzstan.
Kyrgyzstan is right outside of Afghanistan.
And it was being, it was their air base was being used as a staging
place to fly goods into Afghanistan.
So Russia was was pressuring them to stop letting the US use their air base.
And eventually they came the US was like, you know, we really need this.
And eventually the Kyrgyz, they they just doubled the rent.
They were they were renting it.
And I think they were renting it for I forgot the exact numbers,
but either for like 30 million a year and they doubled it to 60 million,
something like that. And the US was like, yeah, we'll pay you.
Even even though you just doubled it.
And that's like a total mafia move.
And they were holding our plane hostage during negotiations.
You know, that was like.
Is this the story when you're sitting at sushi and you get the call?
Yeah, that's right. Yeah, that's that's how the book opens.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, that's so wow.
All right, I want to reel it back a little bit. Sure.
At what point was this before after you started working for Ephraim
when you had that big Xbox deal?
So that was our first our first deal that we tried to do together.
It ended up failing, but that's kind of how we started working together.
I, you know, because I was buying electronics from China,
you know, I had come across this offer to the Xbox had just been released.
The original Xbox is a while ago and the Xbox had just been released.
And I saw someone like offering.
I forgot it was like a large amount of them online.
And they were all sold out in all the stores.
And I thought it was like super weird, you know, like how do these people have a large amount?
It was like around 100,000.
Yeah, it was an enormous amount.
I don't I don't even remember the numbers anymore.
But but I think you're more up to date on the numbers.
You read the book more recently.
I haven't looked at the book in years at this point.
But yeah, and it was it was so strange.
But like, I was like, if this is real, this could make us a lot of money, you know,
because there is a like the they were being sold at double to triple the the the retail price on eBay
because they were all sold out.
And the thing that made us think it was real is was that, you know, it was well,
we eventually broke through a few like middlemen through levels.
And Ephraim was very good at this.
You know, he could like talk on the phone and like just talk the guys
here off and then get him to refer him to his source and get him to refer him to his source,
which was unbelievable.
I mean, he's very, very talented at that.
And eventually we got to the source.
And it was actually a pretty big like electronics distribution company.
Like we got, you know, emails from these people, you know, at I forgot the name of the company.
But but they were like, it wasn't it was like a company that nobody actually
know their name, but like, it's a B2B come because it's a B2B company.
They're supplying like electronic parts to like the big other big companies.
But it was like a multi-billion dollar company.
So it wasn't like there was a mafia trying to sell.
Yes, exactly.
And they wanted some some like, I think they wanted like 20 million dollars
and, you know, Ephraim only had two.
So, you know, we tried to line up, you know, a venture fund, you know,
it was a hedge fund, actually a hedge fund to float us the other 18 million.
But the hedge fund eventually declined, just saying, you know, it just didn't smell right.
You know, there was just something weird about the deal.
And they were just like, we don't know what it is.
It seems all legit, you know, the the payment terms, you know, they were willing
to take a letter of credit so they wouldn't get paid until the goods were delivered.
And all that.
So it seemed like it was a relatively safe deal.
But the hedge fund was just like, it just doesn't smell right.
So we'll pass.
And so the deal fell through because we just didn't have the, you know,
18 million dollars to buy 100,000 Xboxes.
So if you had 100,000 Xboxes, what was the plan to individually
list all of them on eBay?
No, so we we actually had contacted buyers from Walmart and Target
and the major retailers, and they were ready to go.
Yeah. And they were like willing to they were willing to pay the retail price
for them at the time.
And they were willing because they were going to make zero money on this.
Because they because it was such a hot, hot item.
They were willing games and other things.
Yeah. Well, because they call it a lost leader, you know, they'll be like,
hey, we've got the Xboxes coming, a lot of people come in the store
and then they buy other things like games or chargers or controllers
or other stuff that Target sells.
You know. So yeah.
So we would have we would have made it if that deal had gone through.
We would have made like 20 million in profit. Yeah. Wow.
That's that's bizarre, man. Yeah.
And then so what was the biggest?
So every day at the point where you guys start working together,
that deal falls through.
Are you guys just like showing up together like self like making your own
schedule like we're going to get up every single day and start just scouring
this website to try to find deals? Yeah.
Like living in his apartment with him. Yeah.
Sleeping there and waking up.
Yes. So after the Xbox deal fell through, he's like,
let's just do the business I know that I know we can make money on.
I've been making money on.
So, you know, he starts showing me, you know, how FedBizOps works,
the website and, you know, starts teaching me about all the, you know,
the types of guns and stuff that he specializes in.
And the idea was that I would actually go after other types
because he already knew the gun market, but we knew that the fuel market was very big.
Energy is very big.
So I started going for fuel deals.
And my first contract that I actually got with the federal government
myself was for 50,000 gallons of propane to a air base in Wyoming.
And yeah, it was it was a very intense like because he, you know,
one thing I'll give that from is that he he was he was obsessed, you know,
he's had a like an obsessive work ethic, you know, like he would think
of nothing other than money the entire day.
And like he was literally obsessed, like we'd wake up and the second
he wakes up, he's like looking at FedBizOps like over breakfast, you know,
before he's like, you know, he's like looking at it, you know,
like on his laptop on the toilet, you know what I mean?
Like that's all he would do.
And, you know, while he's eating, you know, while he's talking,
he even told me he bragged to me that he would that he loved taking calls
from federal contractors while he was like having sex with his girlfriend,
you know, that like he just loved doing it.
I don't know why his girlfriend hated it, obviously, you know,
but like he would like, you know, while having sex with her, like he'd get a
call, he'd be like, baby, baby, I got to take this, I got to take this,
but keep on going, you know, and he would actually talk to.
It's like he really modeled himself after Nick Cage.
Yeah, exactly.
No, he loved Nick Cage.
He loved Nick Cage and Scarface.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's so fucking.
Did you ever just think to yourself watching him being so obsessed over
money 24 seven, like what, like what, why, why was he like this?
Was it was it nature, nurture?
What was it?
Right.
So I thought about it a lot because, you know, I'm not like that, right?
I mean, it's rare.
Yeah, almost nobody is.
Don't get me wrong.
I like money as much as most people, right?
And, you know, I've always been entrepreneurial and, you know, I am,
you know, motivated and I've worked on my own businesses.
But the level of obsession that he had was beyond anything I'd ever seen
even to this day.
I've never seen anyone like that, you know, and it wasn't healthy.
Like it wasn't and it wasn't fun, you know, it was actually very unpleasant.
You know, working with him was I mean, I'm sure being him was very unpleasant,
but working with him was very unpleasant just by extension because,
you know, he like he expected everyone else to be as obsessed as he was,
you know, and he'd get like upset if like, you know, you weren't willing
to drop everything in your life to chase this, you know, deal that had a tiny
chance of like, you know, completing, you know what I mean?
And it's like, I have other parts of my life I'm interested in too.
It's this is not the only thing I want to do, you know, so I'm not willing
to work literally, you know, 16 hours a day all the time.
Now, I did, especially in the beginning and especially when we won our big
contract later in the Afghan contract because I had to.
So I was willing to do it if necessary, but like I didn't want it to be
like a 24, 7, 365, you know, day thing because, you know, I wanted to live life as well.
So yeah, it was it was.
It was definitely unique, you know, to ask him, like, how did you get like this?
Did he have a really, really have a bad childhood?
So so his family is very interesting.
He's his his grandfather is a billionaire.
And his grandfather is this Iranian Jew who, who, you know, like grew up in Iran.
And I forgot what year he moved to the United States, but he's, you know,
like in his adult life moves to the United States and became his grandfather,
became a slumlord in in LA owns a lot of low income housing.
That's why his uncle, who's his grandfather's son, owns a pawn shop
in South Central LA because it's one of his father's properties.
So, you know, his grandfather is an interesting character,
even though he's like a billionaire.
And I think, you know, he had like, I think it was eight or nine children with his wife.
They after like something like 40 years of marriage or something,
they ended up getting divorced.
And it turned out that he had never married her legally.
They just married like religiously.
So she wasn't know either.
She didn't know or, you know, she didn't think of it.
I don't know the exact story, but like, but because of that, he tried to give her zero.
You know, he was a billionaire and he tried to give her zero dollars.
He thought about this when they got married.
Yeah, exactly.
And so she sued him.
And I think it was like the largest alimony case in history.
I don't know what the what it ended up being, you know, how it ended up shaking out.
But I know it became it got into the newspapers that it like she was suing him
for like seven hundred million dollars.
So that's like his family, you know, and his his uncle is also like, you know,
that he worked with, you know, like obsessed with, you know, like obsessive with money.
And and so, you know, I'm not going to.
I know I know some of his family and some of his family are very nice.
Like his dad is like a real sweetheart.
His brothers are great.
You know, like, yeah, and they're like very different from him, you know,
so it's odd that he, you know, it's not like they're all like that, you know,
you know, but
it was just like, I guess that gene or something, you know, like his his grandfather,
his uncle, him, you know, is just like certain certain people are just like have
that, you know, so his upbringing, his upbringing wasn't much different than his siblings.
I mean, I would assume so.
He was the oldest, so, you know, like,
you know, I don't know, you know, how that affected him differently.
But it's fascinating.
I think about that all the time, how how people because I know a few people
similar that a lot that are like that and I always wonder a lot of them had a
really rough childhood. Yeah. Yeah.
So I mentioned to you before that one of my guests on here met him in prison.
Yeah, that's right.
I met Ephraim in prison and Ephraim convinced him to write his life story.
Right. He wrote the life story.
Ephraim got out with it and used that to sue Warner Brothers.
Right.
For the movie War Dogs.
Right. Right.
Matt Cox, yeah.
And Matt Cox, yeah.
One of the first thing when I asked Matt, I'm like, how
because, you know, I asked Matt, I'm like, how accurate is War Dogs to to the story?
He goes, well, he goes, the story is about pack-outs.
He goes, the story is not really about Ephraim, Ephraim is just a character.
But for some reason, everyone just remembers Ephraim
because of his crazy personality.
Sure. Sure.
But he said, I said, well, how accurate was Jonah Hill's portrayal of Ephraim?
He goes,
he said he made him way too cuddly and nice.
I agree with him 100 percent.
That's exactly right.
Everyone who knows Ephraim will say that.
He said that the Ephraim in War Dogs was a teddy bear compared to the real Ephraim.
Absolutely. He's absolutely right.
They toned him down.
The funny thing is, everyone's like, oh, was he as is he as crazy as, you know,
in the movie? I'm like, he was way crazier than in the movie.
And way of a less nice person than in the movie.
Like in the movie, he's kind of charming.
And and, you know, as he says, like he's kind of like a teddy bear.
Jonah really softens his character, his real life character a lot, a lot.
Yeah, makes him a lot more likeable.
They did that on purpose, actually, the screenwriter.
So the screenwriter of War Dogs, Steven Chen,
he came when they first started writing the screenplay, came to Miami and like met
with me for like a week and, you know, recorded, interviewed me, recorded the
conversations and he told me while he was writing the screenplays, like, look,
I'm going to have to tone down after him, you know, you know, and he's like,
because we need to make him likeable to the audience.
No one's going to want to spend an hour and a half in the theater.
Yeah, I mean, that's how Hollywood works.
You need to have a certain formula
so that it appeals to the mass, you know, to the most people in the population.
So, you know, they had to add a certain amount of action, you know,
because people like action, they have to have a certain amount of comedy and they
have to have a certain amount of like relationship drama, you know, for the girls
who are getting dragged to the to the movie by their boyfriends, you know.
So, you know, so for example, like the relationship drama in the movie,
they have, you know, me, you know, like lying to my girlfriend about being
an arms dealer and she gets super mad and, you know, like, dumps me.
And like, that was like, you know, big relationship drama moment.
Never happened, right?
My girlfriend knew about the whole thing the whole time.
She was totally cool with it.
She just wanted me to be making money.
We just had a child together, you know.
So, yeah, but they made that up because they needed,
they needed to check that box of relationship drama in a movie in order,
you know, to appeal to the most, to the biggest audience.
Right. Yeah.
Another, another funny thing Matt told me was one of the most memorable quotes
he has from him when he was writing the life story, the manuscript.
Yeah.
He said they were sitting in the cell together and he was telling him some
of the stories and how he dealt with people.
Yeah.
And Matt said, he's like, you can't just burn every bridge Ephraim.
He goes and Ephraim's response was there's plenty of bridges, bro.
That sounds like him exactly.
And that's how he acts.
So he burns every bridge he ever has, you know, like, like after he screwed me,
you know, out of the deal,
there was someone took my place and then he screwed him and then someone took his
place and then he screwed him and like on and on and on, like every person he's
ever worked with that I know of anyway, you know, has ended on a very bad note,
you know, and like it feels like he's been cheated by Ephraim.
Right. That's just how he works.
Yeah.
So when they started production on the movie, was it was that right after the
Rolling Stone article came out, they started doing that?
Or how did it come about?
How did they contact you initially?
And how much how much involvement did you have in the production?
Right. So the so the Rolling Stone article came out in 2011
because they so the story actually takes place 2006, 2007, 2008.
But so I left AEY, the company, you know,
that we were working under together, Ephraim's company.
I left in July of 2007.
You know, he pretty much informed me that he didn't want to didn't feel I
deserved the money that we had agreed that he would pay me.
And I was like, well, then I'll see you in court.
And so I left.
And then in like March of 2008, the New York Times published their fateful
front page article, which was not very flattering about us.
And that caused the US Army to cancel the contract.
And and and, you know, put us in and the Justice Department decided
to suddenly charge us with, you know, with fraud.
And so that created a huge,
a huge political scandal like like Congress wanted us to testify.
They wanted us to testify in front of Congress and our lawyers told them,
well, you know, they're going to plead the fifth the whole time
because there's a criminal investigation.
And so then they decided not to have us, you know, but they still like it's on.
There's C-SPAN clips on YouTube about them talking about us.
It's really weird.
But that got the attention of Rolling Stone.
Rolling Stone wanted to write a feature length article about us.
But, you know, our lawyers told us we can, you know, speak to to reporters.
So the reporter, Guy Lawson, who ended up writing the book,
he contacted my lawyer and told him, you know,
I can like, what if I guarantee you that I won't publish anything until you give
me permission, you know, until like the legal jeopardy has been done.
And my lawyer said, well, if you, you know, if we have that agreement,
then then you could interview, you know, David.
And so we made that agreement.
And he also made an agreement with Ephraim.
And Ephraim gave him, I think, one or two interviews and then decided
that he wanted to do his own thing, like write his own book.
Him and Matt Cox.
Yeah, exactly, which he ended up doing.
Exactly.
So, so Guy interviewed me, interviewed Ephraim,
interviewed a few of the other people involved in the story.
And then he sat on the story to his credit for three years
while our legal issues were resolved.
It took three years for all that to be resolved.
But by 2011,
you know, I was already off.
I had been sentenced to seven months probation, got very lucky.
You know, avoided prison.
But after that was over,
the Rolling Stone article was published.
And that got the attention of of Todd Phillips.
And at the time, he was in the middle of directing Hangover 2.
And he thought this was an amazing story.
And, you know, right up his alley.
So he optioned the story, you know, from Guy.
He optioned the article and he optioned my life rights, they call it.
Now, he didn't have to option my life rights.
The way the the the way the copyright or the way the laws work in the United States
is that if your name appears in any public newspaper or like publication,
anyone can make a movie with your name in it
and they can make up anything they want about you.
First Amendment, free speech, right?
Yeah, yeah, they don't have to pay you a penny.
They could say anything they want.
You have no control, you know,
because you are considered a public figure if your name appears
in the in the paper.
So, you know, to his credit, he didn't have to give me a penny or, you know,
be, you know, at all, you know, have me involved.
But he wanted me to be involved because he wanted it to be a bit more authentic.
So so they bought my life rights.
And, you know, and because of that, I consulted on the movie.
They Steve Steven Chin, the screenwriter,
came to Miami and interviewed me for a bit.
And, you know, and, you know, he would call me up occasionally while working
on the screenplay to get various details and ask me for more details on like
various stories and stuff like that.
But at the end of the day, I had zero control over the script.
You know, they didn't ask my permission for anything.
They did send me drafts just to get my opinion on it.
And I gave him my opinion.
But like they made the movie that they wanted to make, you know, and changed it.
However, they wanted were you involved in any of the filming or anything like that?
Did you meet any of the acts?
I know sometimes actors like to meet the characters.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I met Todd, the director, Todd Phillips.
I met him early before they started filming.
He wanted to meet me.
And, you know, he came to him.
He was scouting locations in Miami.
And so he took me out for a drink.
It was cool to meet him.
And then when so and he wanted me to to have a cameo in the movie.
So I have I have a cameo in the movie.
I'm like playing guitar and singing in the old folks home.
You know, while Miles Teller, who's playing me, is trying to sell bedsheets.
You know, you know, yeah.
And and so I was I went to L.A.
to shoot that that scene.
And so I met I met Miles there.
And then when they were filming in Miami, they invited me on the set a few times.
So I met Jonah Hill and Anadarmus and, you know, the people who were filming in my
Jonah ever meet with Ephraim?
He didn't know. Yeah.
I don't think I I don't I'm not sure if it who's who's a choice that was.
I'm not sure if it was Ephraim didn't want to meet Jonah or Jonah didn't want to
meet Ephraim. I'm not really sure.
But I know that they never met. Yeah.
Yeah, it reminds me of it reminds me of Leo DiCaprio playing that guy.
I forget his name on Wolf of Wall Street.
I know he like met him and like spend a lot of time.
Jordan Belfort.
Yeah, to try to like gather more information and respect on his persona.
Try to like portray it better. But yeah.
Yeah. No, Miles didn't do a character analysis.
No, no, no, they just wanted, you know, Miles to be like, you know,
the good guy, which I was happy to let him play.
So yeah, I'm I'm happy with his portrayal of me.
I've got great hair in the movie.
That's hilarious.
Only Hollywood. Yeah, exactly.
One of the first going going reeling back again to the beginning after the Xbox deal,
one of the first big arms deal as you did was to supply the uprising into Paul.
Is that right?
So we we attempted to do that.
But or I should say, Ephraim attempted to do it on that.
No, so it was it.
It wasn't to supply the uprising.
It was actually just the king, the king who was trying to suppress the uprising.
Exactly.
Through one of Ephraim's contracts, contacts, he they were asking for like
attack helicopters and things like that.
And and he tried to, you know, to put together a save the king package, as he called it.
But it ended up falling through.
And I don't I think because peace broke out, I think is what happens.
So like, there wasn't enough time to do that deal.
Did you did you have any objections?
Did you talk to him about that?
I mean, like, this is like fucked up.
Yeah, I mean, it kind of bothered me, to be honest, because I was like, you know,
people are rebelling against a king.
And, you know, you know, it's, you know, it's kind of seems to be supplying
the tyrant kind of situation and are you sure that's even legal?
You know, and he's like, he's like, bro, just let me worry about that.
OK, you just keep on working on your fuel contracts.
Yeah, I wasn't involved in that and I didn't want to be.
So yeah, you guys weren't splitting any kind of profit.
It was basically just you would take commission from the exact.
Yeah, that you landed.
Yeah, yeah, OK.
Yeah, I wasn't I didn't own his company like any share in his company.
He was still doing his own deals.
You were just basically like your individual.
Exactly. Broker sales guy.
Yeah, I was working on a commission.
Yeah, OK.
Yeah, that's it's interesting that, you know, his ability to.
Value money and making deals over anything else.
I feel like if you're going to be in that business, you have to have that mindset.
Yeah, you you.
It's a weird moral compass.
Yeah, well, I mean, I wouldn't say you have to have that mindset,
because plenty of people make a, you know, a legitimate living legally.
And they would argue morally in that business, you know, like
there are some people who say that, you know,
dealing with weapons or ammunition, you know, at all is, you know, morally bad.
Right. You know, full stop.
Right. That's there's there's those people and I've met those people
that I've got hate from them online and all that, you know, people that just hate
guns. Yeah, in general.
But like, you know, I don't think right now most of those people would say that,
hey, you know, the people supplying with Ukraine, you know, with weapons to defend
themselves from the Russians, are those people bad?
I don't think so. Right.
You know, I think most people that are saying give Ukraine more weapons.
Exactly. Right. Exactly.
You know, because, you know, a gun can kill someone.
It could also defend yourself from getting killed.
So it's it's a gun isn't a bad thing on its own.
It's it's a tool, right?
It's like nuclear energy could be could supply power.
It could make a bomb, you know, a knife could chop up your vegetables or chop up
your neighbor, you know, it's a it could, you know, most technology is dual use.
And it all depends on how you use it.
You know, that's that's the key.
That's interesting.
That's an interesting perspective.
Another thing about your story is
I didn't see anybody that was involved,
correct me if I'm wrong, but
the only guy who might be questionable, I'm not sure,
but would be the Swiss arms dealer Tome Tome Tome Tome.
But other than that, like it didn't seem like there were really any bad guys.
Like you F from the guys you were dealing with in Albania, all the middlemen.
I didn't really see any bad guys.
I just saw people that were taking advantage of opportunities to make money.
Yeah, they weren't necessarily evil.
Is that makes sense?
Right. Well, I mean, I don't think anyone views themselves as evil, right?
That's, you know, even I'm sure Hitler, you know, thought he was doing the right thing,
you know, for his people and blah, blah, blah.
You know, it's
I don't think very few people consider themselves evil.
Right. You know.
But
yeah, I mean, it really depends on where you come down on the various
politics of what you're involved in.
So, you know, I mean, we were supplying
the US Army and they were supplying with our weapons and ammunition,
the democratically elected governments of Iraq and Afghanistan.
You know, and I like the government of Afghanistan was fighting the Taliban.
And so I didn't feel bad about that, you know, because I thought that
as with all the problems that the that the government of Afghanistan had and there
were many, you know, lots of corruption, lots of everything, you know,
they were way better than the Taliban.
And, you know, you know, I thought that on the on the whole, on overall,
it's better that for those people to be empowered than the Taliban would be.
And as we could see now, you know, that the Taliban took over again,
it's back to where it was before and it's way worse for all those people.
So so I think it's it's it's,
you know, I think looking at something as being, oh, you're doing this,
this is bad, right?
You know, period is, you know, life isn't like that, you know, life is complicated,
you know, and there's never a good or a bad choice.
There's often a bad or a worse choice.
And you have to decide, you know, like, what's the least bad, you know?
And, you know, supporting the least bad
solution doesn't mean that you are bad because because that solution is not
perfect, you know, it's the world you live in.
Now, always try to come up with a better solution, you know, and and, you know,
and everyone makes their own decisions of where their limits are, you know?
Like, I know a lot of people would be like, oh, just even touching that stuff,
you know, or, you know, the fact that that there may be a chance that, you know,
that something could go wrong is, you know, too much responsibility.
I can't take it, you know, so they won't do it.
And other people are like, you know, I don't really give a shit, you know,
like, you know, you know, once the guns are out of my hands, it's not my problem,
you know, so everyone has to have their own moral compass of, like,
what they're comfortable with.
And, you know, I won't say that I was always comfortable in everything that I
experienced in that business.
There were definitely some things that made me uncomfortable and made me feel bad
about, you know, being involved in it.
But, you know, I tried to remain true to my values as much as I could.
Who was Heinrich Tomei?
Can you explain to people listening who that was and what was his specific
relationship to the United States?
Right. So Heinrich Tomei or Henry, as most people called him,
was a Swiss arms dealer in the movie he's played by Bradley Cooper,
who made no attempt to make a Swiss accent.
Sounds like an American in the movie, but whatever.
I can't imagine what a Swiss accent would sound like.
It's kind of like a like a very like
like like a softer German accent.
OK, yeah. Well, I mean, Switzerland, you know, they speak
German, Italian, French, and I forgot the fourth language.
They have like four languages.
They speak said really depends on which Swiss person you talk to.
Their accent will change depending on like what language they grew up with.
But I believe that most Swiss people speak a form of German.
OK, though, it's like a little different than the German German, you know,
so they sound a little different.
But but yeah, but Henry, he also didn't look like Bradley Cooper.
You know, Bradley had these like really thick glasses and he looked like he was
always hungover and the character was great.
I'm not not bashing Bradley's great actor, you know, and he made his own version
of the character and he did that on purpose.
You know, but but yeah, but not based on the real guy.
The real guy, he was much more along the lines of a Swiss banker.
Did you know how many times did you interact with him?
Several times.
I met him met him in Vegas like in the movie, but not the way they portray it.
We didn't just bump into him randomly.
We were actually introduced to him by by by the Ralph character in the movie,
who was not a Jewish guy who owned dry cleaners, actually a Mormon guy who owned
machine gun factories. His name was Ralph, though, tomato tomorrow.
Yeah, exactly.
It changed the character a little bit.
But so Ralph had been doing business with Henry for a long time and he introduced
us to him. And so we met him in Vegas.
I think the first time we met him in Paris another time.
And we talked to him on the phone a lot because we're he was one of the best
in the business, like he had connections everywhere, you know, like,
especially in Eastern Europe, the Balkans, that was like his specialty,
which is how he, you know, hooked us up with the Albanian deal, you know,
that ended up being our downfall, you know, because he had such good connections.
And what what was his relationship to the US at that time?
Right. So he'd been in business like I think he was like Ephraim,
like since he was 18 years old and he was like in his 40s at the time.
So he'd been doing this business for more than 20 years.
And I know that he got I believe he was on some like Amnesty International
report for supplying some dictators in Africa.
So he was, you know, on like a State Department watch list.
It wasn't illegal for us to do business with him.
I do know that.
But I don't think he would be allowed to do business directly with the United States.
So so that's why, you know, he needed us, you know,
to be his kind of like go between to sell to the United States.
And he was an incredible source, you know,
he got yeah, you know, connections with everybody, as I said, and at incredible prices.
So it gave us a competitive advantage,
which was one of the reasons why we won a lot of the contracts in hindsight.
Do you think the US government was aware they were using you guys as a proxy to deal with him?
They definitely knew because we actually put it in the paperwork, you know,
when before before giving us the contract,
they actually asked us to list sources of supply and he was one of them.
So yeah, so they knew we weren't hiding it.
So yeah, but they either they didn't check or they didn't care.
I'm not sure which one that that was.
But they but yeah, they could have known if they looked.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, overall, it seems like
the United States government was intentionally turning a blind eye to who you were dealing
with because you guys essentially were I don't want I don't want to get too far.
Yeah, of the story. Right.
So in 2006, when the US government decided to arm the Afghans to fight the Taliban,
they originally intended to use a Russian arms company.
Yeah. Yeah.
And that was made public that they were going to do that.
Yeah. And they actually so they they sent.
I think that they sent like a fax because they still use faxes governments in general.
But but particularly Eastern Europe, they I don't know.
They just they love fax.
So they sent a Rossa Barone fax like requesting like the list of munitions
and the Russians thought it was a joke because it was such enormous quantities.
They were like, this is not real.
And I think they like laughed it off.
And then, you know, the State Department had to contact them a few times to say,
no, no, no, it's not a joke.
We really want to buy this stuff.
And if I recall correctly, what happened was at some point
the Russians got on the blacklist because they were supplying nuclear
technology to the Iranians.
And so because they got on a blacklist, now the US couldn't buy from them legally
anymore, so they had to put it out for open bid to buy from other sources.
Because the Russians were the only ones who could supply the entire contract,
you know, every single, you know, in one fell swoop, a single source, right?
Because they have massive stockpiles, as I mentioned earlier.
But
but there is lots of stockpiles spread around all the other Warsaw Pact countries
as well, you know, the Balkans, Eastern Europe.
But not a single country could supply all that.
So they needed someone like a logistics aggregator, I guess you could call us,
you know, someone to they didn't want to deal with all these different actors,
these different suppliers.
So they wanted to deal with a single source.
So what they did is they put the entire thing up for contract and asked us,
you know, ask the middlemen in the business to put together a package for them.
And so we went and got quotes from pretty much every country that we could think
of that may have these items that we could legally buy from and put together
the best combination of, you know, items of, you know, what it costs and what the
quality was and where it was, depending on like, you know, how much the logistics
would cost to ship it to Afghanistan.
So when we combined all that together, you know, we had a very long spreadsheet
and we we got the most competitive price, which is by far,
which was why we we won the contract.
How did the three hundred million dollar Afghanistan deal come about?
What was that conversation like when you first learned about it?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Wren.
Yes, climate change is an incredibly complicated subject.
However, the vast majority of scientists believe that human beings are having a
negative impact on climate change.
Wren is a website where you can calculate your carbon footprint and then offset it
by funding a diverse mix of carbon reduction projects like tree planting,
mineral weathering and rainforest protection.
By answering a few questions about your lifestyle,
you can find out your carbon footprint and how to reduce it.
No one can reduce their carbon footprint to zero so you can offset what you have
left after reducing.
Once you sign up to make a monthly contribution to offset your carbon footprint,
you receive monthly updates from the projects you support.
You get to see what your money is spent on with photos and details with every tree
planted, every acre reforested, every ton of carbon offset.
I'm a huge fan of Wren's tree project.
This project helps substance farmers in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.
While the climate benefits are immense,
participants have created over a hundred and forty million dollars of economic
benefits in addition to sales from carbon credits.
It's going to take a lot to end the climate crisis and you can start helping
today by learning more at Wren.co.
Offset your carbon footprint with Wren.
The first 100 people to sign up using the link below in the description will get
10 extra trees planted in their name.
Back to the show.
So I was first learned about it.
I was driving home to have dinner with my girlfriend
and Ephraim calls me up and he's like, he's like, dude, dude,
you got to get to the office right now, right now, right now.
I'm like, I'm about to go have dinner.
I already made plans, you know, he's like, fuck that, fuck that.
You want to get rich or you want to go, you know, like, you want to like, you know,
hang out with your girl, your girlfriend will be sucking your dick after you have
much money you're about to make, you know.
And, you know, I'm like, I'm like, this could wait till tomorrow.
It's not an emergency, you know, just tell me, all right.
Just tell me over the phone.
He's like, he's like, fine, fine, I can't believe you're not serious about this,
you know, it's like everything like, you know, it was like everything revolved around
like and so he's like, he's like, he's like, I just saw this massive contract
and it's all the kind of stuff that we've been dealing with already.
So we've got great connections for it.
This is going to be the biggest thing we've ever done, you know,
you know, and, you know, he's like, it's all, it's all Warsaw packed stuff.
So, you know, the US can't get it.
You know, they don't manufacture it in the United States.
They're going to need to go through brokers, you know, like us and, you know,
they're going to need to find suppliers and we already have all the past
performance for all this stuff because we've already delivered in much smaller
quantities, you know, these type of munitions.
So he was super excited.
And then we, you know,
usually we had a deal that we would split, you know, the deals that I worked on 50-50.
You know, because he would like put up the money and he would do the fine on
negotiations and we would do the contract under his company and all that.
And I would do all the work and that was kind of like our deal.
And he's like, you know, usually we do 50-50.
But for this, you know, I already got a lot of these contacts, you know,
this is kind of my bread and butter.
So we'll do 75-25.
But he's like, but don't worry, this contract is so huge, you're going to make
millions off this. I'm like, OK, fine, you know, I'm good with it.
Do you say initially how big it was?
So we had no idea, you know, like what the final number was going to be,
because we hadn't gotten prices on it.
He just saw the quantities of of like munitions that they were asking.
And it was like the first item was like 100 million rounds of like AK-47,
seven, six, two by 39.
There was like 100,000 grenades, you know, I mean, like there's like millions
and millions and tens of millions of dollars in minimum, you know,
you know, we knew like right away these these quantities.
We'd never seen them before.
It's like literally like 20 times bigger than anything we'd ever seen.
And that was like bigger than the biggest things we've seen.
So it was massive.
And so we started, you know, he started
contacting all all the people that he, you know, already knew.
And, you know, my job was to pretty much
scour the internet and the world and find any sources of supply that he had missed,
you know, in his few years of doing this.
So, you know, for these types of items.
So he gave me a list of, you know, all the people he was already talking to.
He's like, don't talk to these people.
These are my contacts.
Anyone else, you know, is fair game.
Go for it.
So, you know, I spent probably like a month and a half.
I don't remember the exact time frame, but of, you know, just like all day, you know,
I would go through these massive lists of like arm suppliers that there were these
directories online, half of the entries were like, you know, old and not relevant anymore.
The phone numbers didn't go anywhere.
You know, and most of them didn't have email addresses.
You have to call up and then they don't speak English and you have to, you know,
find the one guy in the factory that speaks English and his English is terrible.
And then he gives you a like a fax number.
You have to fax them what you want.
And then they like, you know, it's like a whole rigmarole.
You know, they're not built for doing business, really.
Because these are like all the remit where we were finding, you know,
these items were only made in the Warsaw Pact countries,
because it was all Warsaw Pact munitions.
It was it was all munitions.
It wasn't weapons, this contract.
It was the idea was to supply the Afghan army and police for like the next 30 years.
You know, that was like the idea because this was the last year of Bush's presidency.
He thought that the next president might be a Democrat, which he was right, you know,
Obama, but he thought that the next president would pull out of Afghanistan
immediately and leave the Afghans high and dry where she was wrong.
I mean, you know, it took until 2020 or was it twenty one?
Twenty twenty one before we pulled out.
So Bush wanted to arm the Afghans with as much stuff as possible before he left
office, so that's why they did this massive contract.
So this contract was just for munitions.
So everything that was used in the weapons, so like everything from like
pistol ammo to like anti aircraft rockets and like tank shells and and mortar shells
and you know, big things, grenades, you know, big things like that.
So
but it was all Warsaw Pact because that's what the Afghans, you know, for the people
who don't know, there's two major weapon systems in the world.
There's the NATO standard, which is what the United States and the West uses,
you know, like the M16.
And then there's the Warsaw Pact standard, which is what
the Eastern Europeans, the former Soviet
republics use like the AK-47 and, you know, they're different like bullet sizes.
You can't like put the bullets of one gun into a different gun
because, you know, to the other standard because it won't fit.
So the United States doesn't manufacture a Warsaw Pact stuff mostly.
So and they needed massive quantities.
So the only place that they were going to make this was in the former Soviet
republics and a lot of the Soviet republics had these really old, you know,
they've been building these stockpiles up during the Cold War,
you know, which is where we've already been supplying similar things to Iraq,
to the to the US Army in Iraq, who was supplying the Iraqi army,
because the Iraqis and the Afghans were both trained in the Soviet standard.
So, you know, that's why they needed that,
because the Iraqis were trained with AK-47s, not with M16s.
So that was the reason for what I am.
Yes. And there's a good reason for that,
because the AK-47 is designed for soldiers with a lot less training.
You know, the AK-47, the famous example is the AK-47 is kind of like your Karola,
you know, like it doesn't have the greatest performance,
but it lasts forever.
You barely need to maintain it and it works.
Right. You can you can bury in the mud.
Exactly. It's famous for that.
Yeah. The M16 is like a Ferrari.
You know, it works amazing, but it's it's finicky.
You have to maintain it.
It breaks easily.
You really know how to use it.
You have to know how to use it and practice with it and all that stuff.
You know, so you have to be much higher level of training to use NATO weapons in general.
It's it goes to the philosophy of how the West and the East treat their military
structures, you know, the the the Soviet Union, you know,
under Stalin, their whole philosophy was just quantity over quality.
You know, like they
remember seeing some documentary about like the tanks that they built.
I think it was the T-72 that forgot which which tank.
But like they had kept on having the bolts like falling out of the tank treads.
So they did is they put they installed this like little piece of wedge of metal,
like along where the bolts would pass by so that, you know, like on an angle.
So as the bolts, as they're slipping out of the tank tread,
they would get knocked back into the train tank tread as it would pass this like little wedge.
So that they wouldn't have to secure the bolts on the on the tracks.
Right.
So that's kind of how the the the Soviets, you know,
built their that was like their general philosophy.
But because they kind of, you know, they they built it cheap,
they were able to build massive amounts and they were able to overwhelm the Germans
in World War Two.
And that's kind of continued.
So they they have much lower levels of training of their soldiers than the West does.
But they have more of them and they have, you know,
so, you know, it's like a less sophisticated, but it's easier to use.
So and it's cheaper.
So the United States, you know, decided to supply Warsaw Pact weapons because,
you know, one, the people they're supplying the Afghans and the Iraqis already were
trained in those weapons, but also bonus much cheaper, you know, than Western weapons.
And the United States wants to spend as little as possible, you know,
in in this endeavor.
So so they put out this contract for all the munitions.
And we, you know, scoured the Internet, we got all the prices.
And eventually it took us a few months to gather it all together and to make our
very complex spreadsheets, you know, which took into account, you know,
the cost of the goods, where it was located, how much it would cost us to transport,
you know, to Afghanistan, because Afghanistan is a landlocked country
and it's surrounded by unfriendly countries like Pakistan, which is very unstable.
You know, then there's the central, you know,
Asian countries.
And so you need to really fly everything in there.
You can't drive it because it's at high risk of of getting a hijacked.
If you have a truck convoy going from like the port of Karachi into Kabul,
it's not a very safe route.
There's a lot of warlords over there who would love to get their hands on a huge
convoy of weapons. So, you know, you have to fly it.
Now, flying is is way more expensive than shipping, you know, like minimum four or
five times more expensive, depending on the route.
Usually a lot more.
But so because of the we had to fly everything, we, you know,
logistics was a major factor in the cost.
So we had to, you know, build these complex spreadsheets of like how much it would
cost, you know, per volume, per weight to fly it into Afghanistan from various
locations. And after we had it all figured out and we got our final price,
Efrem decided to put a 9 percent profit margin on it for us because he figured
that everyone else will probably do 10 so that we should do nine, you know,
just to undercut them and turned out that he had, you know, way lowballed it.
It's a famous scene in the movie where we find out, you know, about by how much
that's a real number of things.
I think it's that scene is actually in the trailer too.
Yes, it's in the trailer. That's right.
So that's it didn't happen like that.
You know, we did find out how that we had lowballed it by about fifty two or fifty
three million dollars, but we found it out over the phone, which obviously makes
for a less exciting scene on film.
That scene did happen where, you know,
it wasn't me actually, it was Efrem and Ralph went to Rock Island
Arsenal to meet with all the government contracting officers before they gave us
the contract. So they met Efrem in person before giving him that contract.
He brought Ralph because Ralph is an older gentleman.
So he figured because he's so young, he needed like an older guy to, you know,
make them feel a little bit more secure.
So, yeah, we we submitted our bid and then like a few months later,
we didn't hear anything for a few months and then they suddenly came to us.
They're like, you're in the final stages.
We need to do like, like I think it was like four or five different types of audits.
They wanted to look at our books.
They wanted to look at, you know, like, you know, like our accounting system.
You know, they sent like a team of people to our office to, you know,
to check us out.
You know, they did do diligence on us.
How long, how long from the point where you submitted the bid?
Well, actually, first of all, yeah, working on the bid.
Yeah, it took you how long to work on that to build that bid?
So if I recall correctly, the initial work was about one and a half months,
something of like intense work, like I was working all night, you know,
because I was always trying to get people on the phone and they're in like
different time zones and, you know, you have to like sometimes they'll only call
you back. They won't like, you know, everything's by phone for some people.
So you have to be like available at any moment, you know, because if you miss
their phone call, they won't like call you back for another week or ever, you know.
So it was a huge pain to deal with them.
And then you had to include the price of fuel for air
transport and everything else.
We had to calculate all that.
So yeah, so that took about a month and a half.
And what was the price?
So the final price, including our 9% profit margin.
So sorry to interrupt.
So you came up with the price and then of what it would cost you,
then you just added 9%?
Correct. OK, that's how we did it.
You know, we figured that would be our profit margin.
So including the profit margin, the entire total price was about two hundred
and ninety eight million dollars.
And, you know, just for reference, the biggest thing that we'd ever done under
AY previously, I think was like 18 million dollars in total, which, you know,
Ephraim made a few million dollars from.
So that's not nothing to sneeze at.
You know, he made millions of dollars from that contract, that 18 million
dollars, but it was like less than 10 percent, you know, 7% of the, you know,
this other contract.
Now, did you guys, I'm sure you guys went through this with like a fine tooth
comb and made sure that it was it was solid airtight.
What was the did you email this quote?
Did you mail the quote?
What was it? Like, how did you send it?
And what was that moment like where you guys are like, yeah, press the buttons?
Right. So it's interesting because most of the government quotes,
you just email it to them or you like upload a file on their website, you know,
depending on which department you're working, your, your, the contract is for,
you know, like sometimes if you're selling to the State Department versus the army,
they have like a slightly different system, or at least they did.
I mean, I don't know if they've changed now, but for this particular contract,
and I don't know why they did this, but they wanted everything in paper, you know,
paper and CD of all things, you know, they didn't want us to like upload it to their
to the site. So we had to print out everything.
It was like a massive stack of papers like that.
And, you know, with all the supporting documents and everything and a CD where we
had like spreadsheets on it, you know, certain files that they requested.
And then we had to overnight it to them.
But ever had this horrible habit of always doing everything at the last second.
I don't know why it's just what he did.
And so, like, you know, we had everything done and we waited until the day the deadline,
you know, like we if we overnighted it, it would get to them the next day.
So it's like the day before was the deadline.
And like it was like four o'clock, the the the post office is going to close at five.
And, you know, he and he was just like, oh, should I do it 9 percent?
Should I do 8 percent?
What if someone else is thinking 9 percent because everyone else is doing 10?
You know, he was like, he was torn, you know, 8 or 9 percent, 8 or 9 percent.
And he just couldn't decide until I was like, Ephraim,
you have to decide because it's like 4 30 and we're going to not bid on this.
If you keep on dawdling and finally he's like, fuck it, fuck it, you know, 9 percent.
And we we put it in into the spreadsheet, printed it all out.
And then it was like only 10 minutes until the post office was going to close.
We get into his car and he's like like going 60 miles an hour down
residential, like, you know, streets, you know, to like, you know,
skidding around corners to get to the post office because he had like only a few
minutes later, you're like running in and we like literally made it by like two
minutes left before like it closed and finally like submitted it.
Yeah. And it was just I don't know why he did.
He did that for like everything.
Everything was like like at the last second, like everything's super stressed.
It was just like he kind of like lived off the stress, you know, like,
like that's just was his personality on the stress.
Yeah. And then so after that, there was some signs that they were interested,
right? Yeah. Like you were subscribing.
They were they they were calling you.
They were trying to audit the company.
Yeah. And what else were they doing?
So they there were a few different audits that they had to do.
So first they didn't speak to us at all for like, I think something like two months.
You know, yeah, we were like, oh, well, we probably lost, you know,
that's why we didn't you guys just kept kept moving on.
Yeah, we just we just started working on other things, you know,
we're like, OK, we spent the last two months working on this huge thing.
You know, it's a roller.
We didn't actually we thought it was a low chance of us winning.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
We didn't think that we had a high chance.
We were like, you know, everybody in the industry is going for this contract,
including like the biggest players like General Dynamics, multi-billion dollar
company, ATK, you know, like these are like publicly listed companies.
They have like a department with like a hundred people who are doing what we're
doing, you know, just two guys, you know.
So we're like, you know, these guys have been doing this business for decades
and they have like huge teams of people.
They're probably going to beat us, but we technically
qualify to bid, you know, because we have the past performance.
So we could bid.
It's not like we're automatically disqualified.
So we have to bid, you know, because what if we win?
You know, it's like a small chance, but such a big upside.
So so that's why we bid on it.
But we didn't really expect to win.
We thought it was a we thought it was a small chance.
And then like two months later, suddenly they called us up and they're like,
you know, we're we have to do some due diligence.
You know, we're making our final decision soon.
And part of that final decision, we have to do all these audits.
And we're like, whoa, we're like in the in the final running, you know, like we
didn't know that we were the number one choice or anything.
We thought maybe they're like, you know, they narrowed it down to like three or
five companies, you know, out of everyone who bid.
And and I think it was something like 30 or 40 companies bid, something like that.
And, you know, they narrowed.
I think they like we thought that they were like narrowing it down.
And now they had to do all this like due diligence on all the companies
because it's a massive contract.
They didn't usually do this.
In fact, we never had this done on even the 20 million dollar contract.
They never did this.
But for 300 million dollar contract, it's a whole other level of, you know,
homework that they that they need to do.
And so they wanted, you know, as I mentioned before, they wanted to see our accounting
system, they wanted to, you know, they wanted to see what our financials were like.
They wanted to see that they that we were able to afford to deliver on this contract.
Because the way the US government works is is they they make an order and then you
deliver to them and then 30 days later after you deliver is when they pay you,
right? So you need and most suppliers are not going to give you credit.
So you need to have the money to finance to buy the goods in order to sell it
to the US government and wait 30 days before you get paid.
So, you know, having the money to to float that deal is critical.
And so they did a financial audit of the company.
And they did like a sourcing audit.
They wanted to know where we were going to get everything.
That's where I mentioned that, you know, we listed Henry or at least Henry's company.
And, you know, we had to tell them where we were getting everything.
What our logistics plan was, you know, they really wanted us to tell them how we
were going to do everything and they they sent, you know, like auditors to our office.
You know, we had to
because Ephraim had never like done his books like ever, you know, like he literally
he didn't have an accounting system at all.
You know, everything was the seat of the pants.
And so they wanted to see an accounting system.
So he hired an accountant and he's like, hey, government wants to see an accounting system.
We have to build it.
And the guys like what you haven't been doing your accounting like for the last two years,
you know, and everyone's like, no, I just, you know, transfer money and get paid.
And, you know, I know I'm making money, but that's all that matters, you know.
And so that so he had to like go and backtrack and all the deals Ephraim had
done and input it into an accounting system so that, you know, it looked like
Ephraim had a rock solid accounting system that had been going back a few years, you know.
So that was just like one component of it.
And, you know, then they asked him to come and meet them in person in Rock Island
Arsenal, which is where the contract was being managed out of.
And that's when he took Ralph, you know, and met them in person.
So, yeah, I mean, it was it was intense.
And they actually did tell him that he he underbid by 50 million.
He did, but not in that scene.
He told they told us over.
Yeah, it was I actually am the one who found
that out because I was the one dealing with this was already after we had won the contract
and we were already starting to like deliver.
And I was talking, I kind of became friendly with one of the contracting officers.
And, you know, I was kind of just schmoozing with him on the phone, you know.
And, you know, just talking and he's like, oh, you guys, you know, you're really
kicking ass, you know, you're really saving us some money.
And I'm like, oh, is that right?
And he's like, yeah, yeah, you're like way cheaper than everyone else.
And I'm like, really? How much?
And he's like, I shouldn't be telling you this.
But between me and you, you know, you guys came in like 53 million under.
I was like, oh, my God.
And I told that for him and he's like, fuck fucking couple of schlammules.
He was so pissed.
He was so pissed.
He's like, we could have made so much more money.
Yeah. Yeah.
So what was it like?
What walked me through when you guys found out you actually had won the contract?
Yeah. So it was I think it was January of 2007.
And I was I actually was just getting home.
I was still doing massage therapy occasionally.
Now, I was winning some contracts here and there, but like I still had like a few
like old time clients and, you know, I didn't like, I didn't know like how long
I would be in the contracting business.
And, you know, the contracting business was like, you like starve for months
and then you get a big payday and then you starve for months and like you you
bid on like 10 different things and you lose them all, you know.
And then you get one contract and it makes up for everything else.
It was very unstable and, you know, I had a kid coming.
So I kind of was like keeping my other businesses alive, you know,
while while I was trying to get into this whole thing.
Because you weren't making any money during all this.
Yeah. From Ephraim.
Correct. Yeah.
I mean, I did make some I did win some contracts, but they were relatively small,
you know, and Ephraim, of course, insisted that I put all the money that I made
from the contracts that we had won together into financing the other contracts.
So he didn't let me pull any money out, you know.
So and that was eventually how he screwed me out of everything.
And I guess that was his plan.
You know, I was an idiot and I agreed, you know, he's like,
oh, why should I finance everything?
You've got somewhere. You're an idiot.
You were fucking 20s, dude.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I trusted him, you know, which I shouldn't have.
So, you know, but yeah, we all live and learn.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So so when you find when you find out,
what was going on when you found out?
So I had just finished a massage.
I was getting home just to my apartment at a little apartment.
I was driving my little Mazda protg tiny little car
and he calls me up and he's like, he's like, I've got good news and bad news.
And I'm like, oh, what's the bad news?
And he's like the first task order is only six hundred K task order.
The way they work it is they have the the the overall contract,
or the base contract, and then they have specific orders against that contract.
So the whole contract is like 300 million,
but then they order pieces of it like at a time.
So they'll be like, OK, give me 30 million in the next three months.
And then after you deliver that,
they'll be like, now give me another 50 million, you know, the three months after
that, you know, so it's like over and it was supposed to be over the course
of a two year period.
So legally, the government wasn't required to order the entire 300 million dollar contract.
They say they were planning on it, but they weren't legally required to.
The only legal requirement for them to order was the first task order
that they that they give you with the award.
So, you know, we were wondering, we were like, when we were discussing this,
we're like, you know, these numbers, the logistics only make sense if we have
the big numbers, because then you get the economies of scale.
You could, you know, you know, strike deals with the aircraft providers,
you know, for large numbers of flights and get low transportation costs.
But if they only give us some if they kind of like,
you know, if they turn out to change their minds on ordering these massive
quantities, then we're kind of screwed because then we don't get those logistics
deals, you know, those logistics discounts, and then we aren't making money because
that's, you know, it's not cheap enough for us to make a profit.
And so we were nervous, you know, like, what if the government kind of screws us
like that? And so, you know, he's like, well,
you know, the bad news is the first contract, the first order, the first task order
is they call it is only 600 K, which is very small compared to 300 million dollars.
He's like, and I'm like, well, we won the contract.
And he's like, fuck, yeah, we did.
He's like, we're going out to dinner right now.
We're having champagne and cocaine.
It's hilarious.
Yeah. And he's like, let's go, you know, he's like, I'm picking you up.
And, you know, he takes me to like, like an Italian restaurant and like he orders
like, you know, champagne and he's had this like little bullet, you know,
it's plastic bullet that like filled with coke that he could like, you know,
sneak coke under and he was right in the middle of the restaurant right in the middle.
He had he had his like napkin and he's like, you know,
like as if he was like blowing his nose, you know, and he like insisted I do.
I was like, I'm not not really into cocaine.
And never I mean, I've tried it, you know, but like never was a big fan.
But like he was like insisting, he's like, you got to do this.
We're celebrating, you know, he's like, you're drinking more champagne.
You're doing more cocaine, you know, it goes a lot.
I mean, it's the perfect drug for that business.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, it's odd because he did a lot of drugs, like different types.
Like and the weird thing was is that he was functional, like almost no matter
how fucked up he was, like he would be blasted off his mind and then he would get
a call from the government and he would speak coherently and like just blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, as if he was like sober.
And then like he'd hang up the phone and he start teetering around again.
It was really weird, really weird.
The one the one thing that I saw fuck him up was when he would take sleeping pills,
you know, because he had trouble sleeping.
And so he much coke can't sleep, I guess.
And also stress.
I mean, he's been screwing over a lot of people and who knows.
You made a lot of enemies, you know, I don't know what I'm not going to make a
judgment of what kept him up at night.
But obviously he was comfortable enough to screw people over.
So maybe it didn't keep him up at night.
But but he couldn't sleep.
So he got sleeping pills prescribed.
And, you know, after he would take the sleeping pills,
he was such a workaholic, he'd still try to continue working, even though he had
taken sleeping pills and sleeping pills, anyone who's taken them knows.
And if you try to stay awake after you've taken sleeping pills,
your brain doesn't work very well.
Yeah, like it's as if you're dreaming, but you're awake and your logic circuits
don't really make sense.
Like you start like saying things that are really weird and don't make sense.
And so like I would see him like get on the phone with like a contracting officer
from the government and start saying things that like were like did not make sense.
And I would have to like get the phone.
I'm like, go to sleep.
And I'd like to take over like, excuse me, Sarah.
Yeah, he's he's a little tired.
He's been working real hard, you know?
So yeah, so that was the one thing that, you know, I saw, you know,
really, really messed him up, but like coke, alcohol, weed, you know,
everything else he could get his hands on.
You know, he was a big fan of pretty much anything that would mess him up.
You could work through all of it.
That's incredible.
Yeah, one of the things that really stuck out to me in the book,
especially is like waking up, ripping the volcano bong and going to work.
Yeah, like I can't work when I'm stoned like that.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, me neither, actually.
I mean, I'm a fan of weed, you know, I'll be the first to admit it.
But only when I'm like relaxed and chilling, you know, like I can't work when I'm on weed.
It's it's, you know, my mind wanders, you know, I can't focus.
But he would take huge bong rips and just like go right to work and go on
spreadsheets and start scanning FBO and talk to people as if he had just, you know.
So interesting. Yeah. Yeah.
OK, so let's go back to your contract.
You get the contract champagne and cocaine.
Now you guys have to start fulfilling the contract.
And you guys realize that there is a embargo on Chinese ammunition.
Right. At what point did that happen and why did that happen?
Right. So while we were bidding a contract,
they had, you know, every time.
So whenever they have a request for proposal, RFP, as they call it, right,
they always have the the rules of like what you have to follow in order to,
you know, to meet their requirements, you know.
So like, for example, when you're dealing with clothing, you know,
they have certain laws that certain percentage of the material, the textile,
needs to be grown in the United States.
Certain amount of the manufacturing has to be done in the United States,
could only be transported on like, you know, American crude vessels, you know,
if depending on where it's going, you know, there's certain there's certain,
like a lot of like laws, you know, that were that have been built up over the
years and you have to kind of navigate that when you're dealing with the government.
One of the things in our in the the request for proposal for the Afghan contract
was that they specifically said no Chinese ammunition may be supplied either
directly or indirectly under this contract.
And the reason they put that there was because there's an arms embargo against
China, there has been one since 1989, since the Tiananmen Square Massacre,
when a bunch of Chinese students protested, they wanted democracy.
And the Chinese government famously like killed a lot of them.
Like there's a very famous picture, I think called Tankman, where there's like a
line of tanks and there's a Chinese protesters like standing in front of the line of tanks.
That's part of the Tiananmen Square Massacre.
And that that was huge worldwide news back in 1989.
And to punish the Chinese military for brutally suppressing the democratic movement,
the United States put an arms embargo against the Chinese military.
So it's illegal for US citizens to either sell or buy military equipment
from the Chinese or from Chinese military companies, as they call them.
Which seems silly, because what did it do?
We buy everything else from China.
Right.
Well, I guess the idea was that we're not directly supporting the
organization that that killed all these protesters, you know, like the Chinese army.
Now, of course, when we're buying our iPhones from China,
Foxconn is paying taxes to the Chinese government who's using those taxes to buy
equipment for the military.
So it's not a big thing.
But I guess it was a way it was a way to punish the Chinese military for doing that.
OK.
And this is something the United States does often.
You know, like, as I mentioned earlier,
they put the Russians on the blacklist for supplying the Iranians with nuclear
technology, so US citizens can't deal with the Russians for military goods.
It's more like about sending a signal or something.
Yes, exactly.
It's that's exactly it.
You know, that's it's it's like sanctions in general.
You know, the United States uses its economic power.
To to punish
organizations and countries that they want to punish without actually coming to
physical violence with them.
You know, it's like it's usually it's more powerful.
Yes. Well, I mean, it depends on there's nothing more powerful than a bullet and a gun.
But right.
But yeah, but there but it's a good way to exert influence without having to resort
to violence. It's economic warfare is what it is.
You know, and that we're seeing that in a big way with Russia now.
Right.
And they're going way further with Russia now than than they did with anyone really.
Actually, the sanctions are much more intensive with the Russians.
Funny side thing.
I just heard yesterday that somebody told me that I don't know if this is true.
You probably know.
But Russia is now selling their oil to China and we're buying it from China.
I know they're selling it to China and to India.
I don't know that we are buying it from China.
I haven't heard that.
That's what I heard.
Yeah. Yeah, because that doesn't sound right.
OK, it sounds like it's because that would be technically against the sanctions.
Oh, what? Yeah, because you can't I mean, I'm no lawyer.
But my understanding is that you can't just use a middleman to get around the
sanctions, you know, that's that defeats the purpose of the sanctions.
Right. So yeah, I mean, we shouldn't be doing that.
If that's how it could be happening, you know, wouldn't be nothing surprises me.
Right. But but it shouldn't be happening.
Yeah. So yeah, the the embargo, the arms embargo on the Chinese ammunition,
it was more of a political statement, more than anything, right?
Because essentially it everything you guys were doing, which I'm sure we'll talk
about with using that ammunition and supplying it, everything was going exactly
how the government wanted it to go.
It was working perfectly.
Yeah.
So they the government needed the Samo, right?
The government needed the government needed the ammo.
That was that was their goal.
Right. And now when they put out the bid, they wanted to get.
No, they couldn't get the ammo from the Russians because they just put them on
the blacklist for the Iranian issue.
Right. They the Chinese have been on the blacklist since 1989.
So, you know, they wanted to get this
Samo without violating their own sanctions, right?
Without violating their own economic warfare policies, so to speak.
And so because of that, they specifically put no Chinese ammunition either directly
or indirectly in our contract.
Now, the weird thing was, was that they didn't say no Chinese ammunition
that violates the embargo, right?
You know, they just said none period, right?
Because there is Chinese ammunition that doesn't violate the embargo,
just like if you had bought a Chinese AK-47 or Chinese ammo in 1988 before it was illegal,
while it was still legal and you import it into the United States, right?
In 1990, after the 1989 ban, you could still sell that weapon or ammo
in the United States to a third party because you had bought it when it was legal.
So it remained legal, right?
Right. You know, once it's outside the Chinese possession,
you know, that's it doesn't benefit them economically, you know, by purchasing that, right?
Now, but it didn't mention that, right?
It just said no Chinese ammo period.
So when we discovered and I don't know if, you know, we're skipping ahead to this,
but when we discovered that the ammo from Albania was Chinese originally,
we we saw the dates on the manufacturing that was manufactured in the 70s.
So it was way before, you know, the 89 ban.
So it didn't actually violate the terms of the embargo.
But because they had put no Chinese ammo period,
it did violate the terms of our contract, if not the embargo.
So it was just that the army had written the contract badly is really what it was.
You know, they should have put no ammunition that violates any embargoes, right?
But they didn't do that.
They just said no Chinese ammo period.
That would have helped you if that would have said that.
Yeah, it would have helped us
because then we wouldn't have had to worry about it.
But when we discovered that it was Chinese ammo, we had to make a choice.
You know, we had to decide,
you know, we had two options really, what we could say, you know, we could go to
the government to the US Army and say, hey, you know, we just discovered that all
of this ammo that we were buying from Albania turns out to be originally from China.
But hey, but you know, it's it wasn't from China in the 70s while it was still legal.
So just want to clarify our contract.
Our contract says no Chinese ammo, but you didn't really refer to this, right?
Can you please give us a waiver in writing to allow us to deliver this stuff?
If we had done that,
two things could have happened, they could have said, yeah, that makes sense.
Our bad, we didn't mean to write the contract that badly.
You know, we did mean that it should only be for stuff that violates the embargo.
So here's a waiver and go ahead, we really need the ammo or they could have said
something along the lines of, well, yeah, that's true.
We wrote the contract badly.
But, you know, everyone, all your competitors had to bid on that contract
with that limitation, right?
So it's not fair to allow you to continue to deliver that contract when, you know,
you bid ammo that your competitors technically couldn't because, you know,
they couldn't bid that out because if, you know, we didn't know that it was Chinese
ammo at the time we at the time we bid it.
But, but, you know, like if, you know, our competitors probably knew because
anyone who actually knows the history of Albania knows that all their arms came
from the Chinese, it's an interesting history.
Yeah, I don't know if you want to take side track into that.
But yeah, no, it's interesting.
It's all stored in like caves and everything else because China manufactured
everything like they moved everything to Albania to manufacture it there, right?
Yeah, so it's a bit of a mix.
So the history of Albania is interesting that they were run by some dictator
and during the Cold War and who was like a real communist true believer.
And he felt that the Soviets were a bunch of corrupt pretenders and who weren't
true communists.
And so he pulled out of the Soviet Union.
Albania is a tiny little country near Greece.
And he thought because, you know, the Soviets don't didn't like people who pulled
out of their union, they would enforce that like they invaded the Czech Republic
in the early 90s, I think it was or late 80s.
You know, so the Soviets have a history of brutally repressing
people who rebelled against them.
And, you know, Albania knew this.
So he was worried the Soviets would invade him.
And so he made and he was also worried the West would invade him because he was
a communist true believer and, you know, mortal enemy of the West.
So he thought he would be invaded by both the Soviets and the West.
And he's a tiny little country, you know.
And so he made an alliance with with Mao with with Mao's China.
And who he felt the Chinese were, you know, true believers as well.
So he felt OK with making an alliance with them.
And he got in the Chinese were happy to have a ally in Europe because it gives
them a foothold, you know, into Europe.
And so they supplied him with massive amounts of military hardware
because he because he was so worried about being invaded by both the Soviet Union
and the West, he formulated a plan which he called Total War, where every man,
woman and child would become a soldier and fight to the death.
That was his plan.
And in order to support that, he built a huge network of bunkers all over
Albania and filled it with with weapons and ammunition that he largely got
from the Chinese.
Now, the Chinese supplied him with weapons and ammunition that they made.
They also supplied him with manufacturing equipment like entire factories that he
set up in Albania to manufacture his own, so which would look identical to the stuff
that was manufactured in China.
So, you know, there was one of the issues that was argued during the court case was
that you don't even know if this stuff was manufactured in China or manufactured
in Albania because the Albanians had the manufacturing equipment that the Chinese
gave them. So there's no way to distinguish where these bullets come from.
So that was one argument, you know, in the court case.
But when we discovered that it was, you know, that it was Chinese ammo,
you know, we made the choice or I should say ever made the choice because he made
all the final decisions, but
that he didn't want to have the risk of losing a three hundred million dollar
contract. So rather than telling the US Army what the situation was,
you know, and taking a risk that they may cancel the contract,
he decided to hire someone to repackage the ammunition to take it out of the boxes
that had all the Chinese markings on it and put it into like plastic bags to,
you know, protect it from like corrosion and package that into like heavy
corrugated cardboard boxes.
And actually, we were planning on doing this even before we discovered it was
Chinese because at the time, it's interesting, because we at the time in
early 2007, there was a huge spike in oil prices and that spike
completely destroyed all our margins because we had to fly everything air
freight and the various the majority of the cost of air freight is the fuel.
So and because the oil prices were spiking,
we weren't going to make any money on this.
And so we realized that
these all the ammo is packaged in these heavy wooden crates and, you know,
which is if we remove them from the wooden crates and from the metal tins that they
were in, we would save a lot of weight and therefore we'd be able to ship a lot
more bullets per aircraft and save a lot of money on on transportation.
And so so in order to do that, we sent my good friend, Alex, over to Albania.
We hired him for this job and he was and he found a
cardboard box manufacturer and and and hired this guy to do the repackaging job.
Once he got to Albania and the Albanians showed him the ammunition,
that's when we discovered it was Chinese.
So we only discovered it was Chinese already after we had decided to repackage it.
But once we discovered it was Chinese, we're like, OK,
we need to repackage it anyway, but now we have to make sure that none of the
the documents which have all the Chinese markings on them, which are
included inside the metal tins with the bullets, that none of that makes it into
the new packaging. So unfortunately for us, we were pretty dumb and we said all
this by email, so we left a very easily traceable paper trail of all our
intentions and when we decided everything.
What does a hundred million rounds of AK47 ammo look like?
So
we fit, if I if I recall correctly, this is a long time ago,
about 15 years.
I think it's been no, yeah, about 15 years.
Wow.
We were shipping about 2.7 million rounds per aircraft, IEL 76 aircraft,
and each aircraft could hold 45 to 48 tons.
So 45.
So that's about two shipping containers per aircraft to shipping the big metal
box. Yeah, at the port.
Yes, exactly.
So about two of those two 40 foot shipping containers into an aircraft.
And and each of those was like a little under three million.
So that's
so if you do the math, it's like three million for two shipping containers.
And there was a hundred million.
Yeah, my math skills are not that great right now, but it's a let's see.
It's two for three.
It's a hundred million about 60.
So about a hundred and eighty air.
Yeah, about a hundred and eighty shipping containers were.
That's yeah, yeah.
That is totally fucking.
And what are the logistics involved in transporting besides the planes?
Yeah, there's a lot more that goes into transporting a hundred million rounds,
including hiring the people to repackage it.
Right. So that was a big job because that's a lot of ammo.
And how did that affect your guys's margins and your guys?
Because you guys initially didn't plan for that in the quote.
Right, we didn't.
But we were saving so much money on the air freight that it was.
It was it was actually peanuts comparatively.
Yeah, like we were saving.
I think we we struck a deal to like pay something like I think it was something
like a hundred grand or two hundred grand to do the entire repackaging.
Two hundred grand, one or two hundred grand.
And we were saving, I think, three or four million dollars in air freight costs.
So we were making way more money than than it was costing to repackage.
And so the per and also the guy who you guys hired to do
the in charge of doing the repackaging ended up being a huge part of the story.
Right. So so the guy who we hired to do the repackaging,
he was the owner of a box manufacturing company, which is why we hired him,
because we were looking for a large quantity of strong cardboard boxes to put
the ammo in and we figured, you know, he's already has a factory,
so he has access to workers.
So why not hire him to do the repackaging as well?
His name was Costa Trebishka, Trebishka, which is, I think, how they pronounce it
in Albania, he, you know, he was happy to do the deal.
You know, he did the repackaging.
But then what happened was Ephraim, of course, could never make enough money.
Right. He was always trying to squeeze more profit out.
No matter how much money he was making, he was always trying to get more.
So he he went over to he kept on asking the Albanians to lower the price.
He was screaming.
It was actually through Henry, because Henry was who set that deal up for us.
He kept on asking Henry, hey, you know, I need a better price.
I need a better reason.
Henry's like, look, I gave you the best price.
You can't get a better price anywhere.
You know, you already have a best price.
And Ephraim's like, I got I need a better price.
Fuel is so high and blah, blah, blah, you know, everything he could think of.
And and, you know, Henry just stood firm.
He's like, I can't change the price.
So Ephraim, he flies over to Albania.
He starts talking to Costa and Costa is like, you know, I have a friend in the
military of defense of Albania, you know, I can get some information for you.
And Ephraim's like, I want to know what Henry is, what they're getting paid for it.
You know, like he wants to know what Henry's margin is.
Right.
So Costa finds out from his friend that they the M.O.D.
is officially the Ministry of Defense is officially selling the ammo, the 760 by
39 ammo to to Henry for two cents a round.
And Henry was selling it to us for four cents a round.
So he was like had like like a 50 percent profit margin or 100 percent,
depending on which way you calculate it.
And and that pissed Ephraim off like, you know, you guys were selling it to the
government for how much 10 and a half cents a round, 10 and a half.
Yeah. Yeah.
But I mean, we had to pay for the shipping.
So the shipping was, if I recall correctly, about three or four cents a round.
So we were making actually about the same amount as as Henry was.
OK. Now.
Now, the thing is, is that one thing that, you know, we had no idea,
we're sure that Henry was probably paying off some politicians in order to do this deal.
Right.
Albanian.
Yeah. Albanian politicians, because he was actually very close with the son of the
prime minister, Sally Berisha, I think was the prime minister's name.
And I forgot his son's name.
But the son ended up suing me and Ephraim and G.
Lawson for defamation, by the way.
Oh, really? Got tossed out of court.
So, you know, so Mr. Berisha, don't sue me again.
Yeah. Luckily for me, it got tossed out of court.
It was it was ridiculous.
It was it was without merit, as the legal profession would say.
But it was a big pain in the ass.
And it made Simon and Schuster lose all the money that they had made off the book.
Oh, really? Yeah.
Because they had to cover the legal expenses, which sucked for them.
Lord. Yeah.
Yeah. Even frivolous lawsuits can cost you a lot of money.
So anyway, Henry had a close relationship with the son of the prime minister.
And, you know, that's kind of how he got access to this, to this, to these,
to this, these, this ammo.
And so we assume, obviously, we don't know, but we assume he was paying people off.
I don't know how much of that he was paying off.
But I don't think he was keeping the entire two cents around for himself.
He definitely wasn't.
But as far as Ephraim was concerned, Henry was being a total pig.
And he couldn't believe how Henry was ripping us off, you know?
And it pissed him off to no end.
And he wanted to get to cut Henry out of the deal, you know?
And so he was like, that's it.
I'm going to cut Henry out of the deal.
I'm going to go to the Albanians directly and they'll deal with me direct.
And, you know, we're not cut Henry out.
Henry out.
And so Ephraim meets with the Albanians, with
Pinari was the guy's name who was running the organization
who that was the Albanian export company.
Pinari was the head of the arms company of the of the export company,
a government owned company that was in charge of selling any military equipment
that the Albanian government wanted to sell.
OK, so Pinari was the head of that organization.
And he meets with Pinari and he has this meeting and this meeting is in the book.
And that's what Mr.
Berisha sued us over was where he he meets with Pinari and and the Prime
Minister's son and one another character that I forgot his name,
but who was a well known like mafia guy in Albania.
And yes, yeah, is this the story where he walks into the building
of cylinder construction and there's like this Wall Street decked out
office in the middle of this building that's not even finished yet?
Exactly. Exactly.
So so Ephraim, you know, realizes the kind of people he's with.
And suddenly he's like, you know, usually he's a big talker,
you know, really loud and you know, talking shit, you know, constantly.
But Alex, who was there, you know, told me that the second he walked in,
he knew he couldn't like fuck around really.
He's got real quiet real fast.
And he's 21 at this point.
Ephraim is 21 at this point.
Yeah. Yeah.
And and and they told him, look,
we can't we're not going to give you a better price.
You know, you can complain and scream and cry all you want, but we're not going to do it.
We know we have the best price, you know, in Europe, right?
You're not going to get a better price.
However, we know that you're also doing the repackaging of this ammo
and that you hired this guy, this box guy who's not part of our organization.
He's just some random Albanian guy and you're paying him a bunch of money
to do this repackaging operation.
So if you get rid of him and you give us the repackaging operation,
pay us some money for that, you know, we'll give you a little discount on the ammo
because we're making money on the repackaging operation.
And Ephraim's like, deal, screw that guy.
You guys are in, you know?
And so he cut the box guy, Costa, out of the deal.
And Costa got really mad about that because he ended up with like $20,000
worth of boxes that he couldn't have anything to do with.
He has to be paid for it.
Ephraim just didn't take his calls, you know, refused to pay him the 20 grand,
you know, because he's just like that.
And and Costa got really mad.
And, you know, and he because he knew what was going on,
he knew why we were repackaging it because, you know, we had specifically told him,
make sure that no Chinese documents get into this.
He knew what was going on.
So so he goes and he tells the New York Times what's going on.
And he also tells, you know, law enforcement, you know,
I don't know if he told the FBI or it was customs that ended up
investigating us, I don't know who he contacted, but he contacted someone in
law enforcement in the United States and they started an investigation
because he contacted them.
And then his biggest mistake was he contacted the Albanian press and told them
that there was a whole bunch of corruption with this deal, that the Albanian
politicians were getting paid off, you know, for this ammo deal.
And I think the reason that was, you know, a mistake on his part is because he
ended up dead after that in under mysterious circumstances.
He like a month or two after he did that, apparently he was driving by himself
in his car on a flat road in a field and suddenly he had some sort of accident
where he was thrown like 30 feet from his car and they found him dead like 30 feet.
This is Trebisca.
Trebisca, yeah, Trebisca.
Yeah, yeah.
And and they, you know, they ruled it as an accident, but it was a very strange
accident because there are no other cars there and it was a flat road and it was
just like very, very strange.
So and also when when Ephraim first went to Albania, he asked you to photoshop
a bunch of fake quotes, right?
Right, right, right, right.
Yeah, for his preparation, for his negotiations with the Albanians,
he he goes to me, he's like, hey, listen, I got to convince these guys to give us
better pricing. So why don't you take, you know, all the, you know, all the other
suppliers quotes that they gave us and just change the pricing to make it look
much lower so I could use it as leverage and say, hey, look, I can go to these guys,
you know, and so I did that because, you know, he asked me to do that.
And, you know, not that hard.
You just change a few PDF numbers, you know, they called bullshit.
Yeah, immediately, like Pinari looked at that.
He's like, that's fake.
He didn't even look at it.
He's like, don't show me that shit.
You know, he's like, I don't want to see your fake papers.
Yeah.
So, OK.
Once this ammo, once you guys start repackaging the ammo, it all starts
going smoothly at one point, right?
Yeah, you guys start, everything's going as planned, like you guys are making
these deliveries to from you guys.
So they're getting their departing from Albania and then where they're going
directly to Afghanistan.
So most of the time they were going directly to Afghanistan.
We did have the story with the AK 40, not the AK-47, the 747.
Right.
The cargo 747 plane had to stop in Kurdistan to refuel.
And that's when it got stuck there on the tarmac.
And that's because Putin was trying to play games and didn't like the fact
that they got blacklisted.
Yeah, exactly.
He didn't like that they were getting blacklisted because they had, you know,
the Russians were supposed to be making all this money and they were supposed
to be their deal.
And so they were trying to mess up the deal so that we, you know,
the US Army would be forced to come back to them.
So they did everything they could to stop us from delivering.
So they leaned on all the Central Asian countries to not give us overflight permits.
So, for example, Uzbekistan
didn't give us an overflight permit for like a month and like we needed to fly
over Uzbekistan. And then I had the idea, well, why don't we just hire the Uzbekistani
national airline to do the transportation so that they're making some money on it?
And then maybe they'll be willing to do it.
And we did that.
And the second we hired them, suddenly we got the overflight permit.
So even though the Russians leaned on them, the Russians didn't have 100 percent
power, you know, to enforce that, you know, they were, you know,
as soon as the Uzbeks were making some money out of the deal,
they were happy to, you know, tell the Russians to go fuck themselves.
What was it like for you to have to get all these flyover permits for all these
countries in between Albania and Afghanistan?
Like what it was, how far did you have to go?
What did you what was it like making these phone calls?
It was a pain in the ass.
But I mean, some countries were easy, you know, like Greece, you know,
we had to fly over there, you know, you know, some countries were fine.
But certain countries, especially the Central Asian countries, were a lot more
difficult. And we'd have to, you know, we at first, we, you know,
like we at first, we would rely on the logistics company to do it, you know,
the air freight company, that's generally their job, you know,
they're supposed to arrange all these things.
But whenever they run into problems, they come back to us and they're like, hey,
you know, these guys aren't giving us an overfly permit.
Is there anything you guys could do on your end?
And so we what we would do is we would call up the State Department in that country,
you know, the consulate, the U.S. consulate and and speak to the military attache,
right? That's a State Department officer whose job it is to interface with the U.S.
military and the military of the country where they're stationed.
So, you know, we would speak to the military attache.
We'd say, you know, we have a contract with the U.S. Army.
We'd set up a copy of our contracts that they'd know were real.
And, you know, like we're trying to get overflight permits over this country.
Can you help us out?
And they would go speak to their contacts in the military and the government of
the country they're in and try to work these things out.
And usually they would be able to do it.
It would take them like a week or two or three.
But sometimes, you know, like in the case of Uzbekistan, they just made zero progress.
And they're like, I don't know why, but they're just not returning my phone calls.
You know, it's very strange.
They're usually not like this, you know, but something's going on, you know.
And and that's kind of where we got stuck
for a little bit until we hired the Uzbekistan airline.
Wow.
And what what like so how much ammo,
how much of this of these 100 million AK-47 rounds did you guys end up delivering
to Afghanistan?
So we ended up delivering and I remember the number because it was in the court case,
you know, 71 aircraft floats.
Seventy one.
Yeah, each with about a little under three million rounds each.
OK. Yeah.
So no, it was more.
Yeah, because it was a hundred.
Actually, I think they put up half, right?
Well, 70 times seven times three is 21.
So that's actually more than one.
Yeah, that's like that's that's a little bit under 200 million rounds.
But it wasn't just it wasn't just the AK-47 rounds that we're delivering.
We were also delivering a 760 by 54 rounds, which is machine gun rounds.
We're delivering other types of ordnance as well, like
mortar shells and and and grenades and stuff like that.
So at any point, did you guys actually
mean we talked about this in the beginning, but at any point,
did you guys entertain the idea of driving it there?
Or was that just told?
I mean, in the movie, you guys drive through the Triangle of Death.
Right. Right. Yeah.
So we did think about using rail.
OK.
But we were told that that the security of that would not be good and that,
you know, it would be impossible to get it insured because, you know,
you're driving through a bunch of like warlord territories.
And if they found out that there is ammo on that train, they're going to stop
the train and take the ammo because, you know, that's what warlords do.
So, yeah, so they, you know, we looked into a few different options.
We looked at like going by boat to Karachi and Pakistan and driving by truck
to to Kabul or going by rail through, you know, the Central Asian countries.
But in the end, it was just too risky.
And we realized that we had to fly there.
And because we had the idea to repackage the ammo and reduce the weight,
it became profitable to fly there, even though it wasn't before.
But, you know, so that kind of gave us, we would have made a lot more money
if we were able to do a rail or or boat, because that would have drastically
reduced the cost of transportation, but it was also much, much more likely
that we would lose the shipment completely, in which case we would be really fucked.
So it wasn't worth the risk.
So that's completely fictionalized scene driving through the Triangle of Death.
So to the scene where we drive through the Triangle of Death is actually not
100 percent fiction.
It actually did happen, but not to us.
So it happened to Steven Chen, the screenwriter of the War Dogs screenplay.
Before he was writing screenplays, he was a journalist and he wanted to cover
the war in Iraq in 2003.
He couldn't find a a flight into Iraq because, you know, they weren't doing
commercial flights, so he got a flight into Jordan and then hired a driver
to drive him to Baghdad from Jordan.
And he got chased by insurgents and got saved by the army.
The whole thing actually happened to him.
But, you know, when he was writing the screenplay,
Todd Todd Phillips, director, was like, man, we need more action in this movie.
Why don't you put in your story where you were driving through the Triangle of Death,
you know, into that and you know, the Beretta deal was a real deal.
You know, but it didn't happen like that.
We actually ended up not delivering the Beretta deal.
Oh, really?
That was one of the one of the few contracts that we defaulted on.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
So at what point did you get an inkling or did you get an inkling at one point?
Did you get something like sort of of feel that Ephraim was going to fuck you over?
Once once the deal was going smooth, right?
And, you know, once the once we were delivering like we were doing like three
aircraft loads per week, like every other day, there was an aircraft delivery
and everything was going smooth.
We got all the overflight permits.
You know, the hard work was done, all the hard work was done.
And, you know, so because all the hard work was done, I started showing up at the
office less, you know, because I didn't have to be there for 16 hours a day,
you know, talking to people, you know, and, you know, stressing out.
And, you know, so I was taken like a break.
And, you know, I was still managing the logistics and making sure everything was,
you know, the planes were arriving on time and people were getting paid and all
that stuff and, you know, the documents were getting sent to the right people.
But, you know, it wasn't like a 16 hour day anymore, you know.
Right.
And then he started complaining.
He was like, hey, you know, you're not, you know, come to the office anymore.
I'm like, I mean, is there a reason I should become to the office?
Like, yeah, I could really use your help on, you know, these other deals I'm working
on, and I'm like, are you going to give me a cut of those other deals?
He's like, you didn't set up those deals.
I just need your help on them.
I'm like, well, but I only get a cut on the things that I work on, you know.
And he's like, yeah, but if if those deals fail, the whole company goes
bankrupt and then the Afghan deal fails, you know, so therefore you're responsible
to make sure that the whole company, I'm like, well, then give me a piece of the
whole company and he was like, OK, OK, OK, I'll tell you what,
I'll give you one percent of the company.
And I'm like, I think I'll keep my 25 percent of the Afghan deal.
Because that's like, you know, 90 percent of all the money coming into the company
is the Afghan deal, because you know, that's what he was thinking in his head.
Exactly. One percent.
I can cut him out of that 25 percent.
That's exactly what that's why he said it.
And so I was like, no, no, thanks.
I mean, you know, if you want to give me 25 percent of the and he starts,
he's like, don't be ridiculous.
You know, I'm never giving you 25 percent of the company, you know, don't be ridiculous.
And I'm like, well, then I'll just keep my, you know, 25 percent of the Afghan deal.
And, you know, then he was like, you know, you know, a lot of people,
the other guys at this point, we had it started off just me and him.
But like at this by this point, we had hired like maybe 12 or 15 people.
You know, so they're like, you know, the office was had a decent staff.
And he's like, a lot of the guys around the office think that you don't deserve
your commissions because, you know, you're not, you know, you're not working as hard
as they are and they're making way less than you.
I'm like, yeah, but that's a different deal than what you did.
You know, like, why are you even saying who's saying that anyway?
I mean, I was like on great terms with everyone.
I was like the good guy.
He was always the guy screaming at everyone.
You know, was like, you know, was always stressed out around him, you know?
So I was like, who's saying that that I don't deserve the money I'm making?
He's like, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter.
You know, it's just confidential, but you know, a lot of guys are thinking that.
And, you know, so I'm like, I mean, you're thinking that.
So I'm like what you don't like.
He's like, you don't think I
that I deserve to get paid what we agreed upon.
He's like, he's like, you know, like, I don't think that you're you're you're
putting in the work that, you know, that that you need to be putting in, you know?
So therefore, I think that, you know, it's you're not pulling your end of the bargain.
I'm like, what are you talking about?
We're delivering, right?
Right. Contracts going well.
You know, our deal isn't that I need to work X number of hours.
I'm not a salaried employee.
The deal is that, you know, I get the contract to go and then I get a commission
off that contract regardless of how many hours I put in.
And he's like, listen, I'll tell you what.
We'll make you a, you know, a,
you know, a official like officer of the company, you'll make a hundred K a year,
you know, and you get one percent stock.
That's my final offer, you know?
And I'm like, I don't want a hundred K a year.
I'm about supposed to be making like millions of dollars from this contract.
You know, I will take what we agreed upon.
And he's like, he's like, well, take it or leave it, you know?
And I'm like, I'll see you in court.
And I walked out the door and I'm like, go fuck yourself.
You know, like, I'm not, I'm not going to do that.
So, so yeah, so I left and it was one of the most stressful times in my life
because I'd been living off my savings until this point, right?
You know, because like all the money I was making in previous deals,
he insisted I roll it into the next deal.
So I couldn't pull that money out to find the Afghan deal.
He's like, we need every penny we can get.
Right. Like we need to have your money to,
you know, I'm putting all my money in, you should put all your money in.
It's only fair, you know?
And and so all my money was in his possession.
What was your 25 percent cut going to be of the Afghan deal?
So if we had completed the thing to the end and delivered all 300 million,
we were making an average of, OK, so we had bid it at 9 percent, right?
Right.
But Ephraim had a real talent for renegotiation, right?
As I experienced, right?
But he renegotiated on everybody.
So when he when when we won the contract,
he went back to all our suppliers and he's like, guys, I've got the contract.
There's no competitors.
Just me. You want to do this deal?
You have to go through me. Now I'm going to need a better price.
I know you gave me a price before and you said that was your best price,
but I need you to dig real deep because I've got other people who are going to
give me better prices and I can go with them.
So like he would renegotiate everything like after the fact.
And he'd never stop renegotiating,
which is how the whole Albanian thing blew up in our faces.
But because he was so good at that and he did a lot of it successfully,
it didn't always blow up in his face.
I'd say mostly he was successful at it.
We ended up increasing our profit margin to about 20 percent.
Wow. Yeah.
And so we would have made if we had delivered on the 300 million dollar deal,
we would have made profit about 60 million dollars.
Sixty million dollars profit total towards 25 percent of that is yours.
Yeah. Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. Yeah.
So yeah, I was looking forward to making that 15 million dollars.
And, you know, my plan was to as soon as that contract was done to quit because I
couldn't stand working with him.
He was just such a stressful person to be around.
And I didn't wasn't even interested in the business, to be honest.
Like it was kind of cool to be involved in like geopolitics and, you know,
and all that stuff.
And like I felt like a hot shot, you know, dealing with all these countries and,
you know, arranging aircraft of ammo and all this stuff.
But I was like, you know, I don't really want to do this for the rest of my life.
You know, I want to do something more enjoyable.
I've always been a musician.
So I've won, you know, I was like, with, you know, 15 million dollars or whatever
it is that we end up making millions of dollars, I'll be able to, you know,
fund a music career, you know, you know, fulfill my teenage dream of being a rock
star, right? What teenage boy doesn't want to be a rock star.
Right. Yeah. So but right out.
So right after you told Ephraim, you're going to see him in court.
Basically, you walked away from him.
You didn't talk to him anymore. Yeah.
You you did.
Did you start your own company?
I did. Yeah. Yeah.
And you had made contacts because you went to a trade show in Paris, I believe it was.
Yeah, that was one of the trade shows.
So it was one of the big just military industrial complex trade shows where there's
just what was what was there was like drones on display.
Yeah. So it's called Euro Satori.
They still have it every year.
I think you need to be in the industry to get an invitation.
So it's not like you can't just buy a ticket.
But if you have a company that is in that industry, you can get tickets to it.
And yeah, and it's it's focused on military equipment.
So you have, you know, the Lockheed Martins,
Raytheons, Northrop Grummans of the world,
BAE systems, all these all the companies from all over the world, not just America,
go and they display their latest hardware.
And you have everything from like small arms, like pistols and bulletproof vests
and and, you know, boots and camo gear all the way up to like tanks and like
helicopters and drones.
And they had like this like live fire demo area where it was like it was
like like a stadium where they had like bleachers and like a big field,
not a stadium.
It was more like bleachers next to a big field because it wasn't surrounded by
people and they had like like tank like tanks, like jumping dunes and like air,
like like attack helicopters, shooting targets.
It was super cool. It was super cool. Yeah. Yeah.
That's wild.
Yeah, they had like military robots that were designed to climb walls and it was
really, really neat. And you were there as a young kid trying to look snazzy,
trying to look like a big shot, rubbing shoulders with some.
Yeah, yeah, I got my best suit on.
Warlords. Yeah, exactly.
We pretty much modeled our look on Nicholas Cage.
You know, that's fucking incredible.
We're like, we got to get a suit like his.
We got to get glasses like his, a metal briefcase because that looks cool.
Yeah.
And so we were like, we got to get them to take us seriously.
So that was like that was what we did.
So you were able to utilize some of the contacts you made there for your new
company. And so what you started, you started just going on the website,
trying to find contracts.
Yeah, exactly.
So I figured, hey, you know, I've just been doing this this work for like a year
and a half at that point, something like that.
And, you know, we won some big contracts.
So I knew how the business worked.
So I registered my new company with the government and I started looking for
contracts. But like before that, I took like a month and a half off because I was
just so burnt out, like I'd been working like crazy.
And then, and then I realized that I was going to make no money and that like
super stressed me out because I realized, you know, I better make some money soon,
you know, because I'm going to run out.
And
so, yeah, I was like super, super stressed out, but eventually got the new
company up and running and I bid on, I think it was like a like a three million
dollar contract. I forgot what it was like for anti-aircraft ammo.
And I was informed by the government that they wanted to do the the like some
of the audits, which was the final pre-award phase, you know, that similar
to what we had gotten much less intense than what we did for the Afghan contract.
But they were, but like they gave indication that they were about to
award this contract to me.
And I was going to make like a million dollars on this contract, just this one
contract because I had a great profit margins, you know, like found a really good
supplier through one of my contacts.
And like the day before they were going to award the contract, literally the day
before the New York Times article broke.
And the front page of the New York Times had my mug shot on it, as well as
Ephraim's mug shot next to a picture of rusty looking ammunition.
And they said that we were delivering like low quality ammo and it was like became
a big scandal because where they got that picture was we had delivered like
I think Ephraim had bought had bid on like 30,000 rounds of Bulgarian ammo.
It wasn't even the Chinese stuff from Albania.
It was Bulgarian ammo and he had bid on it site unseen.
It was dirt cheap and like, you know, it wasn't a large enough quantity to go
fly over there to inspect it.
So his thinking was, you know, it's so cheap, we'll roll the dice.
If they accept the ammo, we'll make a lot of money.
If they don't accept the ammo, it's not such a big, you know, loss, right?
Turns out, not surprisingly, the ammo is total shit, you know?
And it was rusty and when it got delivered to Kabul, it was rejected.
You know, they look took one look at it.
They're like, we're not giving this to soldiers, you know?
So they in Kabul, they didn't have like ammo,
you know, disposal services, right?
So they what they did is they just stuck those few pallets of bad ammo
like the side of the runway and it just sat there for like months,
you know, while they tried to figure out what to do with it.
The New York Times, after the after Costa informed them about this whole story
and they started investigating, they flew over to Kabul
and they started talking to some of the military officers there about our company.
They're like, oh, is anything from can I see any of the stuff that they delivered?
They're like, oh, yeah, that's stuff over there at the end of that.
That was some crap they delivered right there.
And so the New York Times
reporter went and photographed that and and, you know, they made it appear like
that was like all the stuff we were delivering, you know?
So so the so the the the front page
story was that these two young stoners,
because they got in the whole stoner, they got in our mug shots, actually,
from another incident where Ephraim had picked a fight with the valet on his
twenty first birthday. Oh, yeah.
And this is a story where you got you guys you guys ended up calling the cops
on the valet guy and then you guys and we got arrested.
Exactly. And they'd find a little baggy a Coke in your sock.
They didn't. Yeah. So yeah, they were so I'll digress and go into.
It's a funny story. So yeah.
So so what happened?
It was Ephraim's twenty first birthday.
This is a few weeks before we won the Afghan contract.
We won it.
His birthday is in December 15th, 16th, I forgot.
But like but this like we wanted the contract in January, early January.
So it was his twenty first birthday and he's like, we're going out and we're
parting, let's do this.
And so we go and he was living in one of these fancy buildings where they have
where they require you to valet your car.
Right. Like even if you live there, you can't park your own car.
But he had I don't know what happened, but he had bad blood with the valet guy.
He was this like little skinny Cuban guy.
Right. And and so he like we got to the valet and the valet guy wasn't there.
And so he's like, oh, he's not even here.
Fuck this guy.
Let me just see if I can get my keys from the valet, you know, closet.
He opens up the closet with a lock.
He opens up. He's like, oh, here's my keys.
I'm just let's just go get my car.
Right as he's getting his keys, the valet guy comes like around a corner and sees
him rummaging in his closet, you know, and the guy gets, you can't go in there.
You know, that's you can't do that.
You know, and he gets really mad and he like starts running at Ephraim.
And Ephraim's like, well, well, I just want my keys.
And, you know, like kind of like getting back in his face, you know.
And the Cuban guy just clocks him right across the face, just like that.
Like he threw the first punch.
I saw it and clocks him right across the face as and then Ephraim starts,
you know, fighting him back, you know, punching him back.
There's a security guy, the condo security guy runs over and both him and me and
the security guy run at them and we both pull the eye pull Ephraim and he pulls
the other guy, you know, to separate them.
Ephraim's shirt is all like ripped and like, you know, and stuff.
And and Ephraim's like screaming, you motherfucker, I'm going to get you deported,
you piece of shit, you know, and I'm calling the cops.
And and Ephraim's like, oh, my shirt is ruined.
Let's go up and, you know, I need to change my shirt.
I'm going to call the cops in this fucker, you know.
And so we go up to his place and he gets changed.
And and like we look out his balcony and we see that a few cop cars.
He calls the cops and we see like cops were right there.
They were very close by Miami Beach is pretty small.
And so the cop cars, like three, four cop cars, like pull into the driveway of his
building and and out where like going down in the elevator and he goes to me,
he's like, hey, you know,
I've got some coke on me, you know, if they're going to arrest anyone, it's going
to be me, you weren't even involved in the fight.
So, you know, so why don't you hang on to the bag of coke?
And I'm like, OK, fine.
That makes sense, right?
You know, and so I'm like, you know, we're about to talk to a bunch of cops.
I'm like, you know, just to be on the safe side, I'll put it in my sock.
You know, I put like a little bag of coke in the plastic bag in my sock.
And and we go to, you know, we go, you know, go down to the cops and and Ephraim's
like that fucker, he attacked me, you know, you should arrest him.
And the cops are like, OK, we need to speak to you separately and they separate us.
And they, you know, the cop asked me what happened.
I told them what happened.
And then they go and speak to the security guard and to the valet guy.
And then they come back and the cop tells me, OK, turn around, put your hands
behind your back, you're under arrest.
Like, what? What? What do I have to do?
You know, why are you arresting me?
And and the cop is like, oh, because the security guard said that you were holding
the valet guy down while your friend was beating him.
And I'm like, that's not true.
That there's security, there's security cameras all over.
Why don't you go look at the footage?
You'll see that's not true.
That he, the valet guy attacked that from first and I was just pulling them
apart along with the security guard.
So like, what? Where are you saying that?
You know, and why don't you just check the footage and you'll see that's not true.
And they're like, yeah, we don't need to check the footage.
We have a witness.
So like, so you're under arrest, you know, get in the car, you know, here.
Slap the handcuffs on.
And I was like, oh, fuck, I'm so fucked.
I've got a bag of coke in my sock.
What am I going to do about this?
Get into the back of the security of the cop car.
And back of the cop car, you know, it's like a plastic bench with no cushions,
you know, the floor, there's no like rug under the floor.
It's all like just rubber, you know, they've designed these things on purpose.
And I'm like, fuck, should I take it out?
Should I just try to sneak it into a corner?
You know, what if they look inside the car afterwards?
You know, what's the best thing?
I decide I get taken to the.
It was actually a female cop who who was driving the car.
And get taken to the Miami beach.
You know, the police headquarters.
And she pulls into into this like underground parking garage.
It's just me and her.
And I'm like thinking, should I take out the the coke and and put it in?
She's like, OK, step out of the car.
I step out of the car and she gives a very thorough search of the back seat, you know,
like while I'm standing there in handcuffs.
And I'm like, OK, that was a good thing.
I didn't put it in the back of that.
That was that was the right move there.
And then she's like, OK, face the wall.
And she gives me a very thorough search, a very thorough search, kind of like a very
aggressive, you know, like where she like squeezed my butt.
You know, I felt like she was like.
Cabin search.
It wasn't a cavity search.
But but it was as close as it could get.
Like I honestly think and whatever, I'm not like, you know, I don't it didn't
really bother me that much at the time.
But like, but like now that I think about it, I was like, that was a very
suspicious type of search that she gave me, you know,
you know, not that I'm going to sue the Miami for sexual harassment or whatever.
But, you know, but she definitely seemed to be enjoying herself.
It's a compliment.
Yeah, exactly.
Whatever, you know.
And so then I go into the into the into the
police station and the the the police officer is like, OK,
you know, I want you to take your socks and shoes off and put them on the table.
And I'm like thinking, I'm fucked, I'm fucked, I'm fucked.
You know, they're going to find the coke for sure.
And so I like, should I try to, you know, my then I'm thinking,
should I try to put the bag, should I take my sock off and try to have the bag
under my foot, you know, is, you know, or should I leave it in the sock?
It's side to leave it in the sock.
First thing he does, he asks me to see the bottoms of my feet.
So I'm like, OK, that was another good move, you know, I'm getting lucky here.
And and then he he he takes he's like, remove the socks from your shoes.
I put the socks on the side and he looks at my shoes.
I'd like, you know, like just dress shoes on because we were going to go to the club.
And I have I have flat feet.
So I have orthotic devices in my shoes.
You know, these like little arch things that you insert.
And he he had no idea what they were.
And he's like, what are these things?
You know, he's like, is this a weapon?
And I'm like, no, those those are orthotic device.
He's like, I thought, what's orthotic?
I'm like, it's for flat feet.
You know, it's a medical thing.
He's like, are you sure about that?
I'm like, yeah, yeah.
It's like there's no like secret compartments in here or anything like that.
And he's like, like he's like banging it.
He's like looking at, you know, like trying to see if there's like a like a secret thing.
He like looks through like the spaces in my shoe laces to see if there's anything
hidden in this, you know, like there he tries to like to undo the sole of the shoe
to see if there's anything in there.
And he was just so focused on the shoes and I guess he got distracted by
orthotic devices like, OK, put your socks and shoes on.
You didn't even look at the socks.
Wow. So got really lucky.
As soon as I was in the holding cell, flushed the bag down the toilet, you know.
So it ended up being a misdemeanor charge of aggravated assault.
Which they ended up dropping because as soon as the we got the
foot, the security footage from the condo, right, you know, we were able to show
that this was completely, you know, ridiculous.
And, you know, but the New York Times got their mug shots.
Yes, exactly. So that that long story short, that's where they got the mug shots.
We were we were neither of us looked particularly good because it was like four
in the morning when they took those mug shots because they like hold you in a
holding cell and then they need to transfer you to the county jail.
And, you know, they take their sweet time.
They actually put you in a prisoner transport van, which is like
a like a cargo van with like a metal wall down the length of it and and and a
bench on either side. Right.
So it's super cramped like you could barely like squeeze in and you know.
And, you know, they stick you in and most of the people they arrest are like,
you know, homeless, you know, or drunkard people and they stink really, really bad.
I mean, people haven't like showered and who knows how long and and they walk you
into this transport van and then they go chill, you know, they're smoking cigarettes.
You can hear them like talking, you know, watching a game and sat there for like
while I'm like suffocating on like fumes, you know, for like, I think it was like
two and a half hours before they decided to, you know, go drive us to the county jail.
So get driven to the county jail and then they make you wait a whole bunch
of more time and then they fingerprint you and take your mug shots.
But at this point, I'm like, it's like five in the morning.
I'm like, tired as fuck. I'm pissed as fuck.
Because, you know, it's like all, you know, bullshit.
And so, yes, I did.
I look pretty bad in the mug shot is what this story is supposed to illustrate.
So, yeah, so we looked pretty bad.
And of course, the implication was that all the ammo we were delivering was this
rusty, low quality ammo, which was not true, which was not true.
It was just this one.
No, I'm not saying that, you know, we, you know, that no responsibility.
Oh, you know, we should have delivered this rusty ammo.
We should have never delivered that rusty ammo, you know.
Well, the rusty ammo ended up being what?
Less than one percent of all the ammo you deliver.
It was, yeah, I was.
No, it was the point zero, zero, zero, one.
Exactly. It was crazy.
Yeah, it's 30,000 rounds out of I think it was something like 150 million total
or 200 million total of all the different types of ammo.
So, yeah, it was it was a very, very small amount.
What was the term they use in the contract at the ammo?
It had to be operationally without.
What was the term?
Man, it's been so long.
Serviceable without qualification.
Right. It had to be serviceable without qualification.
Meaning they basically they didn't care if it was super high quality ammo.
As long as it went bang.
Right. They just wanted it to work.
That's all they care.
No, which is interesting because they have a different set of standards for the US
forces, you know, you the US Army has very strict shelf life limits, like even
if the ammo is properly stored, if ammo is properly stored,
it actually could technically last forever more or less.
You know, like there is ammo from World War Two that works perfectly fine
because it was vacuum packed and not, you know, subject to extreme
temperature changes. Yeah, it doesn't really
by and large go bad, but the US Army is super paranoid and super rich.
So they have very strict, like, like I think there's a I don't know the exact
numbers, but it's something like a 20 year max shelf life for ammo that's
that's given to troops, but they didn't care that, you know, they didn't have
the same standards for the Afghan and Iraqi allies.
You know, all they cared was for that purpose was that it was serviceable
without qualification in their terms, meaning that it worked, that they would
test it and it worked.
It didn't, you know, misfire or anything like that.
And it didn't have like a corrosion on it or any visible signs of where
which, you know, the 30,000 rounds did, you know, they they were corroded.
And so the the guy from the DC is
yeah, based in Tampa started investigating you guys or started investigating
F from right and so and he got in touch with the guy who was originally
charged with boxing, the ammo, yeah, started talking to him.
Yeah.
And then so so this guy from the DC is who was investigating
Deverelli, what was his like?
How did he get tipped off to this whole thing?
And what was his ambitions of what he was?
It seems like he was almost as driven to take down Deverelli as Deverelli was
driven to do this deal.
Right, right.
So I believe
and my memory is a little bit, you know, I don't remember exactly how it came
because there was different, a little bit of conflicting information.
But I believe that that that Mentavlis, which is the guy
Tavlis, Michael Mentavlis, he he was a customs officer.
For DCIS, Defense Crimes Investigative Service.
He's like the like the Pentagon's internal FBI.
And then he worked alongside customs with other with customs officers.
Oh, OK. So he was the lead investigator.
I believe he originally got tipped off about Deverelli in general.
I'm not sure which one came first, but there were two things.
There was one there was one competitor who was really
pissed off that Deverelli kept on winning these contracts.
And he this guy, I forgot his name, but he
insisted that there was no way Deverelli could be legally winning these contracts.
He must be doing something shady.
And so he started he filed all these complaints with the with the Justice
Department saying Deverelli is like, you know, repackaging stuff or which he was.
But he didn't actually know that he was talking about different deals
earlier than the Afghan contract.
And I think he was talking about like some weapons
that Deverelli was supplying, which he was doing completely legally.
But this guy claimed he wasn't.
So that kind of got Deverelli on their radar.
There was another incident where Deverelli allowed the State Department
brokers license to expire because he didn't want to pay like a two thousand dollar
renewal fee and because he technically didn't need it to do business with the Pentagon.
You don't actually need a broker's license to do business with the Pentagon itself.
You do need if you're going to broke, if you're going to broker third parties,
like with other countries or private entities, you need a license from the State
Department in order to broker military equipment.
OK, so Deverelli had this license.
We have to renew it every year and it costs two grand.
Deverelli didn't want to spend the money.
So he let it lapse and
and then because he let it lapse, there was some deal that came up which
I think he needed this license for, but he didn't have it.
And so that like I'm not sure which came first, you know, the the competitor,
you know, kind of ratting on Deverelli or this license issue.
But the combination of those things really bumped him up the visibility thing.
And then the box guy came and and told them about that.
That really got the investigation into high gear.
And it seemed like there was a political war going on between
the investigator and the army, because he kept going to the army, trying to get them
to stop your contract or freeze your contract.
They're like, no, this is going fine.
The ammunition works perfectly.
Yeah, yeah, they.
So once Mentavlis discovered that, you know, the ammunition was possibly Chinese
from China, he sent an email and this came out in court.
That's how we know about it.
He sent an email to the army saying, hey, this could possibly be illegal.
We need you to stop taking delivery.
And the army was like, you know, we really need this ammo.
And so if you want us to stop taking delivery, we need a letter
from the Attorney General of the United States,
head of the Justice Department, requesting for us to stop taking it.
Otherwise, we're going to continue.
And that letter never arrived.
So I don't know if Mentavlis tried to get that letter and was denied or he didn't
try, I don't know exactly what happened, but the army didn't get that letter.
So they kept on taking delivery on it.
And and they kept on taking delivery on it all the way until the point where the
New York Times published their front page article.
So they were informed like back in August, I think,
about the Chinese origin of the ammo and they didn't stop taking delivery until
March of the next year.
So like more than half a year,
they continued taking the delivery of the ammo, even though they were informed
by, you know, the Justice Department that it was, you know, possibly Chinese origin.
But they didn't care.
They said the the I think the term they used was the the the mission
Trump, you know, the needs of the mission, Trump, you know, your,
you know, your request, unless there's a letter from the Attorney General.
Right, right, right.
Yeah, because it was it was working perfectly.
I think there was even generals or something on the ground in Afghanistan that
were that were testifying that this is this ammo works perfectly.
We've tested a lot of it.
They've never had any issues with it.
Yeah, yeah.
And they had a big shortage of ammo as well.
So Afghanistan has a fighting season.
They can only fight in like the the summertime because, you know, there's
very high mountains in Afghanistan.
And in the winter, the weather is so bad that nobody can really fight.
You can't like really, you know, trek anywhere, you know, to to to conduct
military operations.
So the fighting season in Afghanistan was coming and they were out of ammo
and they really needed the ammo in order to supply, you know, the Afghan National
Army to fight the Taliban.
And so when we started supplying the ammo, they were thrilled and they were like,
we need more of it.
We need more of it.
Keep it coming, keep it coming.
And so, you know, when Mentavis comes and tries to put a stop to it,
the army pushed back hard against that.
They did not want to stop the supply, you know, because it was critical for what
they were doing.
So what ended up happening with Mentavis?
How far did he get?
What, how were you going to be implicated in all of this?
How did they try to wrap you up into this whole thing?
So I left the A.E.Y., you know, I walked out the door in July of early July of
2007 and the Customs and DCIS Mentavis and his other agents raided A.E.Y.'s
office in August, August 23rd, remember the day I was, you know,
scarred, emotionally scarred.
So that's how I remember that day.
But I got a call.
I had already been gone for like almost two months at that point, you know,
barely recovering from my ordeal, you know, dealing with that from.
And, and I get a call because I was on great terms with everyone else in the company,
you know, so I get a call from one of the secretaries and, you know,
like on the morning of August 23rd and she's like, hey, I just wanted to let you
know that the federal government just raided the office.
You know, there's agents everywhere and they told everyone to step away from
their computers and they're taking everyone's computers and they're boxing
up all the filing cabinets and they're taking everything.
So it just heads up and I'm like, oh, fuck, you know, we're fucked.
We are so fucked.
And, you know, I immediately called Alex, who was, you know,
my best friend that we had sent over to Albania.
So in the movie, they have me go to Albania.
You know, that's not, I didn't go to Albania.
We actually sent Alex, who was, you know, a good friend of mine over to Albania
to oversee the repagaging operation.
And, but in the movie, they decided it was simpler to just combine our characters.
They didn't want to introduce another character, which was fine by Alex.
Alex does not like the limelight.
So he was thrilled not to be in the movie.
But so anyway, I called up Alex because, you know, he's my best friend.
And I'm like, hey, you know, this what happened, they just raided the office and
he's like, oh, shit, you know, let me call up, you know, let's find,
let me find out what's going on with Diveroli.
He calls up Diveroli and
a guy named Danny answers the phone who he had replaced me.
You know, he replaced my role in the company once I left.
He also got screwed by Diveroli, as everyone does, you know.
But so Danny answers the phone and and and Alex says, hey, is everything OK there?
You know, like, I need, you know, these documents, you know,
there's new airplanes coming, you know, you know, aircraft coming.
We need a load more aircraft loads.
I need these these documents in order to for the aircraft to go.
And Danny,
Alex told me the story and Alex told me that he hears Danny saying, you know,
like covering the phone and telling it from, hey, Alex is on the phone.
What should I tell him?
And and he hears F from tell Danny,
don't tell him anything, don't tell him anything.
I just tell him there was a bomb threat and you can't get him that document.
Those documents now just, yeah, we have to evacuate the office because there's a
bomb threat. And so Danny gets back on the plane like, hey,
I'll get you those documents soon.
But you know, we can't right now because there's like a bomb threat.
And Alex is like, whoa, why are they lying to me?
Are they like planning on blaming me for everything?
Like they're going to claim they had no idea about the Chinese stuff and it was
all me, you know, like doing the repackaging.
Am I going to be the fall guy?
And he's like, fuck these guys.
I'm out of here. You know, they're lying to me.
I can't trust them anymore.
And and so he leaves, you know, he flies.
He's on the next plane back to the United States.
And and, you know, Alex and I both, you know, hire a defense attorney, you know,
who specializes in federal criminal cases.
And the first thing our lawyers told us to do is go through your emails
and search for all the keywords of all the things that you did.
Right. And see what written evidence there is.
And so we did.
And there was a lot of it, you know, we were very careless with emails.
And, you know, the reason I think the reason we were so careless is because
we were working all hours of the day and night in different time zones.
And it's very hard to get people on the phone sometimes, you know.
So if you have to like get them on the phone, you have to like wait till the next day
for them to like be at the proper time.
And we're like, you know what, fuck it, just send an email and can repackage all
the ammo, make sure there's no Chinese, you know, documents in there, you know,
it's all an email, you know, we're like, OK, this is all documented.
We are totally fucked.
There's not there's no denying what we did.
And so our attorneys told us, you know, look,
they've got lots of evidence here, you know, so probably your best
course of action is to just plead guilty and cooperate.
You know, otherwise you because, you know, what are you looking at?
Right. You know, the, you know, we're like, what's what's the potential here?
You know, and they're like, there's a whole bunch of different ways
they can structure it, right?
They can structure that because the prosecutor has a lot of power of like
what crimes they charge you with.
So what they told us eventually at first, they actually told us, oh,
if you cooperate with us, we're not going to charge you at all.
You know, we don't even care about you guys.
You guys are just incidental.
We're really just going for Devereaux.
He's making all the money.
You guys didn't really make any money.
So, you know, we don't, you know, you're not the kingpin here.
You know, he's the guy who's making all the money and making all the decisions
as well. So, you know, it's really we just care about him.
So just cooperate with us and we won't charge you with any crimes.
You just be a witness.
We're like, great, you know, because fuck that, you know.
And so so we, you know, we tell them what we know.
And then then nothing happens for like six months.
You know, like during the time,
Mentavlis is trying to get the army to try to stop accepting deliveries.
The army refuses.
Nothing happens where like, oh, maybe and our lawyers tell us, well, you know,
depending on the political situation, they may not, they may let this go,
you know, because if the army wants to keep on taking delivery,
even if they know something's going on,
they may it seems like they're not actually going to pursue it.
They may let it go.
Maybe there's no case at all.
And then the New York Times publishes their front page article
and suddenly everything changes.
You know, suddenly the army says, whoa, we had no idea this was going on.
You know, we're going to cancel this contract and, you know,
rebid it, you know, for, you know, to someone else.
And and then the Justice Department, who had told us, you know, pretty much,
we hadn't like barely heard from, you know, the last six months.
They're like, hey, guys, you know,
we're very sorry, but, you know, we just,
we feel like we can't charge de Veroli unless we charge you guys as well,
because you were so involved in the in the whole thing.
But don't worry, you know, because you guys have been cooperating,
you're going to plead guilty, we're going to, you know,
recommend to the judge that you get the minimum sentence.
And we're like, you told us you wouldn't charge us at all.
You know, now we're going to be a, you know, a convicted felon, you know,
even if we don't go to prison, that kind of fucks you up.
So we're like, oh, well, we're very sorry, you know, like we can't,
we have to do it this way.
We're like, OK, well, you know, what can you do?
So we both plead guilty, you know,
and de Veroli tried to fight them for like like a year and a half.
He hired like the best lawyers in Miami spent millions of dollars on his attorneys.
I spent my entire life savings, which was not that much at the time,
because he screwed me out of all the money on on my lawyer.
And I plead guilty, you know,
it cost me like $30,000 to plead guilty.
Wow. You know.
Yeah. And, and, you know, yeah, sure,
you could have a public defender as the private defense attorneys like to call
a public pretender, right?
And the public defenders have like they're working on like 200 cases.
They'll barely barely remember your name, let alone like details of your case.
But the prosecutors are only working like five or 10 cases.
So, you know, the prosecution in this country is way better funded than the
defense, you know, so it's not really an even system,
unless you have a lot of money and you could afford a few hundred thousand
dollars if you're going to go to trial, that's what is going to cost you to go
to trial or if you even plead guilty, it's like 30 gay, you know,
depending on, you know, how complicated your case is.
So that was like all the money I had left.
I was like completely broke
and Alex had to borrow money from his parents.
It was stressed him out and his parents out.
It was a really terrible situation for him.
And but, you know, we pled guilty,
Deverelli tried to fight it for like a year and a half, but eventually he realized
he was going to lose and he ended up pleading guilty as well after spending
like two million dollars trying to get rid of the case.
But he ended up pleading guilty as well.
And now then they also charged Ralph, Ralph Merrill,
you know, the investor in in A.E.Y.
In the movie, he's a Jew who owns a bunch of
laundry places, you know, laundromats.
But in real life, he was like a Mormon guy who owned a machine gun factory.
So they charged him with the same thing they charge us.
Fraud, they called it.
And oh, and just just to give you an example of like how how they work.
So they told us when they were like, hey, we have to charge you, you know,
with with, you know, like with crimes in order to move this case forward.
It also this is, you know, what if you guys fight us,
we're going to do if you decide to take this to court,
we're going to treat each aircraft load that you delivered to Afghanistan
as a separate crime because each aircraft load had a document that you signed.
It was actually Deverelli who signed it,
but I was the one who took that document and gave it to the government.
So I was culpable because, you know, I was involved
and and each aircraft load had a document called a certificate of conformance.
And that document said, you know, what type of ammo was on the plane,
the quantity of the ammo, the year of the manufacturer and the place of origin.
That's what and it was a form that they gave us that we had to fill out.
And in the place of origin, we put Albania, right?
But and they said, but you knew it was really China and you repackaged the ammo
to hide the fact that it was China.
So that is an act of fraud against the United States.
And you did this 71 times or 71 aircraft, right?
So each of these
each of these so that's 71 counts of fraud and each count of fraud can get you up
to five years in prison.
So you can have get maximum 355 years in prison if you fight us now.
And of course, it'll cost you a few
hundred grand just to get a decent lawyer to to even have a chance of winning.
But if you plead guilty, then we're going to combine those 71 counts into one.
They have the prosecutors have that power to do that.
They could decide what to charge you with.
And so, therefore, you have a maximum
sentence of up to five years and because you plead guilty and you cooperated,
we're going to tell the judge that you are repentant and you're going to be a good
citizen from now on, and you were very helpful in in this investigation and
therefore, to give you the minimum on the low end of the scale.
And who knows, maybe the judge will give you just probation, right?
So just probation or 355 years in prison.
Right. Make your choice, right?
And so it wasn't really a choice.
And that's why the federal government wins more than 98 percent of its cases,
because the vast majority never even go to trial because of the choices they give
people, because they have this type of charging power.
So we both plead guilty, of course.
You know, we didn't really have much of a choice.
And in effort, plead guilty as well.
But one of the things that they they make you sign a plea agreement where you
admit all the things that you've done and then the government makes a promise
that they will tell the judge that you, you know, were cooperative and and
repentance and therefore to please give you a low sentence.
But part of that agreement is is that you can't commit any more crimes in this
period before you get sentenced, right?
Because how are they?
How are the agents going to tell the judge that you're going to be a good
citizen from now on if you commit another crime?
Right. So if you commit another crime, you invalidate your plea agreement.
And then they could say whatever they want to the judge.
So Alex and I, we were scourge at this, of course, you know, and we like I went back
to school, I started studying mechanical engineering, I went back to being a
massage therapist, you know, I was like, I'm like out of this fucking business.
I, you know, I want I'm going to be super care.
I don't like my kid was a baby at the time.
My daughter had just been born.
She was like one year old at the time.
And I was like, I'm not going to miss my kid growing up, you know, and spending,
you know, her, you know, her, her childhood and maybe her, you know,
her full childhood in prison.
So so, yes, I went back to school.
I started working for a nonprofit for that that ran a food kitchen.
I was trying to make myself look as good as possible.
And and of course, I mean, like I was I was terrified.
I mean, you know, it's like, you know, it kind of wakes you up when you were you
allowed to go back into arms dealing.
So they told us to stay out of the business.
It wasn't they said, you know, just to keep everything clean.
Don't don't do any of this business anymore.
OK. And in fact, so I was I was already because I had started my new company.
As soon as the The New York Times article got published, you know,
I told you I was like one day away from winning this multimillion dollar contract.
The US Army said, oh, we, you know, we just saw the the articles.
You know, we can't we can't give you this contract anymore.
The bank also said that, you know, we can't finance you anymore
because of, you know, the reputational risk, as they call it.
And
so.
So while we so the reason it took three years from when they decided to
charge us until we were finally sentenced was because Ralph Merrill,
he decided to fight it.
He decided he's like, you know what, I'm going to take this to court.
And so then there was a whole preparation for his trial.
And they didn't want to sentence any of us until his trial was over,
because they wanted us to use us.
All three of us, Alex, me, and Deverelli,
you know, as witnesses in Ralph's trial,
you know, as we were required to do because we had agreed to cooperate.
So we were required to be witnesses if called upon.
So so his he had a trial.
It went into it like one juror refused to convict them.
So it went into a mistrial, then they did the whole trial again.
There was a second trial.
And then he finally got convicted.
And Ralph got sentenced to four years in prison.
He spent like all his money defending himself.
You felt really bad.
And he got in Deverelli ended up stealing a million and a half dollars from him
that he had invested.
He just never paid him back.
So Deverelli stole like a million and a half dollars according to Ralph.
This is what Ralph told me.
And as well as spending millions of dollars on his defense,
and he ended up losing and he went to four years in prison.
So during this three year period,
Deverelli, of course, couldn't keep out of the business.
You know, he just,
you know, they told him not to, but he just couldn't keep out away from it.
So he kept on doing, you know, arms business, but through intermediaries.
But he's such like a control freak that whenever there would be like a deal
that looked like it was about to happen, he would insist on
on cutting his interim, his, his own intermediary out of the out of the,
you know, communications and getting on the phone himself.
You know, so he could negotiate because he's a very good negotiator.
So he wanted to negotiate himself.
So at one point he contacts, he was trying to do this deal to sell.
I think it was magazines to
to gun magazines, you know, right?
To some firearms dealer, I think in the Orlando area, Central Florida area,
and the guy who he was trying to do this deal with Googles him, right?
And all the The New York Times article comes up, you know,
the New York Times article was reprinted by like every major newspaper in the world.
You know, it got into the Associated Press, you know, network.
And so like I saw my name popping up and like I've like, you know,
like a Google alert, you know, for like my name.
And I saw my name popping up and like all these,
like every major city in the world pretty much because like all their local
papers all reprinted it.
So he Googles him and he finds, you know, this entire story and he thinks, man,
you know, this guy is in a lot of legal trouble and he's trying to get me to do
an arm steal, he's probably trying to incriminate me to entrap me in order to
get time off his own sentence, right?
So he's like, I'm not going to get fucked like that.
So he calls up the ATF and he tells them what, you know,
that Diveroli is trying to do this deal with them with him.
And and the ATF agents are like, oh, that's very interesting.
Why don't you keep on talking to him?
In fact, why don't you introduce one of our agents as your partner?
And so he introduces one of the undercover ATF agents as his partner to Diveroli.
The ATF agent gets in the phone.
He's like, yeah, yeah, we could do this deal, but I need you to come up and I need
to meet you in person in order to do this.
So why don't you come up to Orlando and we could close this deal?
Now, he wasn't allowed to leave South Florida.
That's part of the the plea agreement.
You know, you're not allowed to leave that area.
And so but he was like, fuck it, I'm going to do it anyway.
He drives up to Orlando,
meets with the undercover ATF agents and the ATF agent has he's like, hey,
you know, I just bought this new HK handgun, check it out.
And Diveroli is is a gun nut, right?
And he's like, oh, I love that.
I saw that thing just came on the market.
Let me see that baby.
You know, oh, this thing is awesome.
You know, he's like, we got to go shooting.
Let's go to the range.
Let's go pick up some ammo and the ATF agent slapped some cuffs on him.
And he's like, you're felon in possession of a firearm.
You're under arrest. Oh, my God.
Because he had already pled guilty.
So he was officially a felon, which, you know, you can get up to 10 years in
prison if you're a convicted felon and you have you're in possession of a firearm.
So they arrested him for that.
And he, you know, they argued to the judge that they should not grant him bail
because he was already violating the terms of his bail in South Florida to go to Orlando.
So he's shown that he has no respect for, you know, the terms of his bail.
And so they kept him in, I think it was county jail.
I don't remember.
I think it might have been county for like almost a year, you know,
while he was awaiting for the while the whole Ralph trial played out.
And eventually he could have gotten 10 years for the weapons charge, for the
possession charge, and he could have gotten up to five years for the for the fraud charge
for the Chinese ammo charge, because, you know, he had pled guilty.
So they combined all the counts into one.
They can't change that, but they could, but they could recommend to the judge
to give him the maximum sentence.
So he could have gotten a total of 15 years, but he ended up getting four.
So he hired the best lawyers in the business.
They negotiated hard.
He ended up getting four and he served, I think, three and a half, something like that.
Yeah. Yeah. Wow.
What was the biggest lesson you learned from this whole thing?
I would say the biggest lesson is that be careful who you work with.
You know, be careful who you associate with in general, not just work, but,
you know, and that sometimes
you may think that that, oh, you know, like I thought my my thought process the whole
time was like, I really didn't like the I didn't like working with him in particular.
I didn't like the work in general.
It wasn't something that particularly interested me.
I mean, it's really glorified logistics, really, you know,
it's more complicated than logistics because you have to do the extra licensing
for military equipment, but so it's just a more complex version of logistics.
It's not the kind of work I wanted to do, you know, for my whole life.
Never really wanted to be an arms dealer.
And and I hated working with Diveroli just because he was just such a stressful
person to be around.
But I thought to myself, well, if I could just stick it out just a little bit
longer, a little bit longer, you know, I'll make, you know, I'll make millions of
dollars and then I'm set and then I could do I'll be free, you know, for the rest
of my life to pursue my passions.
And,
you know, like I understand why I made that decision at the time.
And I think that that you but like sometimes I question, you know, like,
if the deal had gone well and he didn't fuck me over, right?
And I made 15 million dollars, right?
Would I have stopped at that point?
Or would I have been like, oh, I can make a hundred million dollars, you know?
Yeah, I'm so good at this.
I'm such a great arms dealer, you know?
People tend to do what they're good at, you know?
So, you know, I mean, I could have stopped, but I could have also very well not
have stopped. So, you know, I think that being very careful about who you work with,
you know, and not and taking the long view, you know, of, you know,
you may think that that you can make a lot of money now real quick,
but there's a lot of ways to make money.
And there is and what you work becomes a huge part of who you are.
And so you have to be very careful about about, you know, because that's most of
the time you spend is, you know, your waking day is in your job, right?
So you become the things that you work at.
So you have to be very careful about about what you do,
you know, that you're happy with the work you're doing.
You feel satisfied and fulfilled by the work that you're doing,
who you're working with, that you actually trust them, that you like them as a person
and and think that never think that anything, you know, is going to be just a
short term thing, because in life, things just always extend way longer than you
expect. And most of the things you do just keep on going, especially if they're
going well, right? You know, have you do you ever think about?
Do you think about him anymore?
Do you do you reflect on all this at all?
Like day to day or how much reflection do you do?
And have you had any contact with him since all this went down?
So, I mean, in the beginning, I was reflecting about it a lot because it was
just such a, you know, stressful, terrible experience.
Thankfully, now I don't I barely think about him at all.
You know, the only time I ever think about him is when someone wants to talk about
the story, you know, or, you know, there are some things that, you know,
kind of remind me of him, you know,
you know, just the
you know, like there's
I think that nobody is all good or all bad.
Right. Right. You know, there's a lot of things I admire about him.
You know, one of the things I admire is an incredible work ethic.
Never seen any work one work harder, you know, never.
I thought it was bordering on obsession and was very unhealthy, you know.
But but he managed to achieve things
that ninety nine point nine, nine, nine percent of people never achieve
because they didn't have that drive, you know.
So, you know, I've I've learned a lot about that,
but I've also learned a lot about what not to do.
You know, you can't, as you said, you can't burn.
You can't live your life burning bridges.
I mean, I guess you could and he has,
but eventually it will but you in the ass and it did.
You know, he spent four years in prison
because he had no problem burning every bridge he came across.
And to be honest, I mean, not that I wish this on him, you know, I honestly,
I don't really care, you know, I wish him the best.
I heard he's married now.
I heard about that.
So, you know, I don't know what his life is like.
Now, I hope he's a different person, though I doubt it, you know,
because I've Alex bumped into him after
prison and he was pretty much the same guy.
And, you know, but,
you know, like, you know, I don't I don't I don't like I don't like thinking about him.
Excuse me.
You know, I don't like thinking about him.
And I'd be happy if I never interact with him again.
You know, unless he if you look, if he said if he calls me up or you know,
whatever, and he's like, hey, David, you know, I've been thinking a lot about,
you know, our time, you know, that we spent and I feel like I really wronged you.
And here's, you know, a five million dollar check of all the money I owe you.
I would be like, we're best friends now.
You know, you can buy my friendship like that.
Yeah. I mean, if he apologizes and admits
is wrong doing and and and, you know, and makes up for it.
Absolutely. You know, I'm a forgiving person.
You know, I don't have like a vendetta against him or anything like that.
You know, but he's never going to do that.
I mean, at least every every bit of evidence that I know about in every
my experience with him is that he's never going to do that.
So in that case, you know, I have no desire to interact with him again.
And I hope he doesn't hurt too many people, you know, along the way of what he's doing now.
How much money did you make overall with your whole career working with Ephraim?
Not that much.
I'm almost embarrassed to say.
Come on, tell us.
It wasn't that much.
It was, I think, total like before the Afghan contract, you know,
somewhere in the neighborhood of like 50, 60 K.
Wow. Yeah.
I mean, before the Afghan contract, I'd only been working for like
like eight, nine months, you know, so not terrible to start out.
Of course, you know, that money got rolled into other deals, you know.
So it's not like I actually made that money.
And, you know, and then once I won the Afghan contract, I wasn't going for any
other contracts, so I was just focused on that, you know, so, you know.
What are you doing now?
What I'm doing now, my favorite subject.
So I got into it.
Very interesting how I got into my current line of work.
While I was under house arrest, I was,
you know, I got sentenced to seven months of house arrest.
I felt very, very, very lucky.
You know, managed to avoid prison.
Any amount of house arrest is, you know, exactly.
I was with my daughter, you know, and I got, you know, to eat out of my own kitchen
and use my own private bathroom in paradise compared to prison.
You know, I could play my guitar.
I've been playing guitar since I was a kid.
And so I was playing a lot of guitar because I was bored.
You know, I had the ankle tracker on my, you know, so I couldn't leave the house.
And I really missed playing in part with other musicians in general,
but particularly I missed playing with a drummer because, you know,
the drums give the music, the beat, which is the energy in the music.
People dance to the beat, right?
Without the beat, music sounds kind of lame.
So I was playing my guitar,
but I really wish I could play along with the drummer,
but no drummer is going to bring their entire drum set over my house.
It's a pain in the butt to move a drum set.
Even if they did, I mean, they would wake up my entire apartment building.
They'd go nuts.
So so I bought a drum machine, which is an electronic device.
It goes on the table as a bunch of buttons on it.
Each button makes a different drum sound.
You can make beats on it and play it back in a loop.
So I would make like beats and and, you know,
have like a beat to play along to with my guitar.
But every time I wanted to change the beat, like to go from like verse to chorus,
I, you know, like I needed to stop playing my guitar,
press a button on the machine to change the beat and go back to playing my guitar.
And it interrupted the flow of the music.
So I was like, I tried doing it with my toe, but it was super like, you know,
awkward. And I was like, I need like a drum machine that's like in a pedal format,
you know, something that I could control hands free with my foot while I play my
guitar. And so I went online to, I was sure someone made something like this.
I went online looking for something like this and I couldn't find it.
And I asked my musician friends if they'd found any,
if they'd seen anything like this and they, they're like,
I've never seen anything like that, but that sounds super cool.
Let me know if you find it, because I'll get one too.
That sounds super cool.
And so I was, so I did a patent search.
Nobody had even patented the idea, which shocked me.
I mean, it was such an obvious idea to me.
And so I thought, well, if everyone wants it, nobody's making it.
There isn't even a patent on it.
So this is my opportunity to, you know,
do something useful and constructive, you know, with my life.
And so I started, I didn't know anything about developing electronic equipment.
I started Googling it, you know,
I learned about the different types of engineering and I was actually studying
mechanical engineering in school at the time, but I was very low level.
I was like doing like an associate's degree, you know, the first two years.
So it wasn't like I could do any of the engineering myself.
But eventually I found a engineering team that could build it.
I first hired people that did a terrible job at to fire them because, you know,
and then had to find new people as a whole process took me three years.
So well beyond my probation period,
three years until I got a working prototype.
And I it was my first product.
It's called the beat buddy, like your buddy that plays the beat.
Um, go check it out.
Is there a website?
Yeah, singular sound.com.
That's the singular sound singular sound.com.
Yeah, it's like like you're playing by your singular self, you know.
And and since then we've come out with seven other products all aimed at musicians.
Like a whole yeah, we have like a cable winding device to wind your your your music
cables, we have a world's most advanced looper, which records your music and plays
it back in loops, pull it up.
OK, yeah, singular sound.com.
That's cool. Yeah.
And yeah, that's the site there.
So that's our that's the world's most advanced looper pedal,
which, you know, records your music and plays it back in loops.
You can do lots of different layers of music as well as you just tap those
little chrome buttons with your foot. Exactly.
That's it's meant to be a hands free device.
You see the wheel on the right side there.
You can control the volume of the different tracks as you can do like live mixing hands free.
So that's our most recent and most technologically advanced product.
Yeah, that's a little thing's incredible.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you.
Yes, the one on the right is the cable winding device.
And that one, the one on the left, the beat buddy.
That's the first product. OK, and you have seven different products.
Yes, yes. Wow.
And and now we actually recently launched my brother and I.
We came up with this
idea for our first non musical product.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
So we've always been like kind of complaining.
I mean, I really shouldn't be complaining because we've done very well with the music company.
We got a whole bunch of awards.
I've met some of like my musical idols who use my products.
You know, it's super cool.
Yeah, one of my favorites experiences was
so I'm a big Allison Chains fan and like I learned to like to play guitar
listening to their music as a kid and their bassist, Mikey Nez,
he came up to me at a trade show and he's like, oh, you you made the beat buddy.
I just bought one two months ago.
I'm like writing all my music on it now with it.
You know, I was like, I learned to play guitar listening to your music.
That's so fucking cool. Yeah.
So it was super, super cool.
Yeah. Amazing. Yeah.
So I have no complaints.
You know, like we've done very well with the music company, but with singular sound.
But, you know, there is the the the industry aimed at musicians.
Musicians are only comprised of like 10 percent of the population.
At most people would consider themselves musicians and people who buy
high end musical tech products or maybe 10 percent of those.
So the addressable market is relatively small.
I mean, you could do very well in a small niche market if you, you know,
if you have great products, which we do, we've done very well.
But we've always, my brother and I've always been trying to come up with ideas,
you know, that could appeal to everyone, not just musicians.
Right.
And so we were hanging out at my place and we were eating mango.
And, you know, mango is like very fibrous and so like gets stuck in your teeth.
And so my brother asked me if I had dental floss so we can like get rid of the
mango fibers in our teeth.
And so my brother and I were go to my bathroom where both floss in our teeth,
like looking in the mirror and we're like, you know, this kind of really sucks,
you know, like everyone hates flossing, but everyone has to do it or they should.
Right.
So what if we create a product that can floss your teeth for you?
Everyone would love that.
Right.
And so we're like, yeah, that would totally do so well.
And so we started coming up like, you know, spitballing ideas.
We had all these crazy contraptions until we realized that that water flossers.
Do you know what a water pick is?
Yeah. Yeah.
So it's like where the dentist uses.
I don't know.
The dentists don't use water.
They shoot water between your teeth.
Yes. OK. I thought usually dentists use.
Yeah, some dentists do that.
So so you could buy a water pick, which is a water flosser, which is
they've been around since I think the 70s or 80s.
And they've done research on what the way it works is it shoots a single stream
of water and you have to like aim it at the gum line and you trace your gum line.
Yeah, there it is.
There there it is right there.
So you it shoots a single stream and it's like a toothpick made out of water and
you trace your gum line.
You have to do both the top gum line, the bottom gum line, and then you have to
point it from the inside of your mouth, pointing it if you're going to do it
properly, you know, pointing outwards and and trace the gum line on the inside of
the mouth. And that's very cumbersome and you're it's supposed to be an exact
90 degree angle to the gum line.
If you do it like pointing up at the gum, it irritates the gum.
If you point down, it doesn't properly clean because it doesn't get under the
you know, the the gum line.
And so a lot of people when they first use it, you know, it has a quite a high
learning curve, you know, like you, you know, they'll like splash all over their
mirror, you know, they'll it won't feel effective.
You know, it takes some skill to learn how to do it.
So so a lot of people who buy
water flossers, even though they're a lot more comfortable than string and they've
actually been scientifically verified to be more effective than string.
So the water gets under the gum line and washes out all the bacteria,
which a string does not do.
So they've done studies on this.
Water flossers are more effective than string when used correctly.
The issue is, is that a lot of people don't use them correctly.
They do the angle wrong or they don't do both sides of the teeth.
So we realized if we could design a better
water floss or all the sciences there that shows that water flossers are more
effective than string.
But if we could solve the pain points of a water flosser,
then that would be a very successful product.
So actually brought a a piece of our innovation.
So we came up with this, which is we call it the insta floss,
like instant flossing, insta floss, kind of like Instagram flossing.
Hold it back a little bit, like closer to the microphone.
Like the microphone is in focus, right?
Yeah, perfect.
OK, so yeah, so the way it works is it's like an H shape.
Yeah, and which your teeth, you know, you bite into it like that.
And there's jets that shoot out from both sides, you know, towards your teeth.
And so you just put it in your mouth and this thing this thing turns.
So you just put it in your mouth like this.
No way, that's sick.
And it does both the outside, the inside, top and bottom.
And it's just it's just a 10 second sweep.
So it takes you 10 seconds to floss your teeth.
And because of the way it's built, it's at a perfect 90 degrees all the time.
And so you don't have to like learn to do the 90 the angle and you could just lean
over the sink and all the water just falls into the sink so it doesn't splatter your
mirror. So it's a much easier to use device.
It's faster, it's, you know, easier to learn and and like all water flossers,
you know, it's painless, unlike string, you know, which can cause you to bleed.
So we are manufacturing this now.
It's the first manufacturing run.
Anyone who wants to get it, go to instafloss.com.
Instafloss.com.
So it's already up.
Yeah. Pulled up Austin instafloss.
And Ken, so are they you're are you still in the manufacturing phase of it?
Yeah. So we're doing the first production run now.
We're going to deliver to the people who preordered.
We've sold
we've sold about 25,000 units to people who ordered them in advance.
OK. There it is.
Bam. Look at that. Yeah.
And we're raising money as well.
People can also invest and become an equity shareholder as well.
That's incredible.
And we're yeah, we're we're raising money to expand because we've had like a huge
backorder and, you know, a lot of retail partnerships, you know, potential,
which we need large quantity to, you know, to to do large manufacturing runs
to get the price down and get it into like, you know, Walmart and Walgreens and all those.
That's pretty fucking cool.
I'm definitely going to order one of these.
Yeah. Thank you. I need one.
Yeah. Everybody does.
Yeah, for real.
Flossing sucks.
Everyone hates flossing.
No, yeah. Nobody likes flossing.
Nobody likes it. Yeah.
Well, cool, man. Yeah.
I really appreciate you coming on here and sharing this.
I'm a pleasure. I'll link both of those below.
Thank you. People can check them out.
Yeah. Incredible story.
I really appreciate your time.
My pleasure. Goodbye, world.
