One thing I'll give Ephraim is that he was obsessed.
He had an obsessive work ethic.
He would think of nothing other than money the entire day.
He was literally obsessed.
We'd wake up and the second he wakes up, he's looking at fed bizops over breakfast before
he's looking at it on his laptop on the toilet.
You know what I mean?
That's all he would do.
While he's eating, while he's talking, he even told me, he bragged to me, that he loved
taking calls from federal contractors while he was having sex with his girlfriend.
He just loved doing it.
I don't know why.
His girlfriend hated it, obviously, but he would, while having sex with her, he'd get
a call.
He'd be like, maybe, maybe, I've got to take this, I've got to take this, but keep on going.
He would actually talk to and see really-
He really modeled himself after Nick Cage.
Yeah, exactly.
No, he loved Nick Cage.
He loved Nick Cage and Scarface.
It's so fucking-
Did you ever just think to yourself, watching him being so obsessed over money 24-7, like,
what, why?
Why was he like this?
Was it nature, nurture?
What was it?
Right.
I thought about it a lot because I'm not like that.
It's rare people are like that.
Almost nobody is.
Don't get me wrong.
I like money as much as most people, and I've always been entrepreneurial and I am motivated
and I've worked on my own businesses, but the level of obsession that he had was beyond
anything I'd ever seen, even to this day, I've never seen anyone like that.
It wasn't healthy and it wasn't fun.
It was actually very unpleasant.
I'm sure being him was very unpleasant, but working with him was very unpleasant just
by extension because he expected everyone else to be as obsessed as he was, and he'd
get upset if you weren't willing to drop everything in your life to chase this deal
that had a tiny chance of completing, you know what I mean?
It's like, I have other parts of my life I'm interested in too.
This is not the only thing I want to do.
I'm not willing to work literally 16 hours a day all the time.
Now, I did, especially in the beginning and especially when we won our big contract later,
the Afghan contract, because I had to.
So I was willing to do it if necessary, but I didn't want it to be like a 24-7, 365 day
thing because I wanted to live life as well.
So yeah, it was definitely unique.
I mentioned to you before that one of my guests on here met him in prison and Ephraim convinced
him to write his life story.
He wrote the life story.
Ephraim got out with it and used that to sue Warner Brothers for the movie War Dogs.
Matt Cox, yeah.
Matt Cox, yeah.
One of the first things, when I asked Matt, I'm like, how accurate is War Dogs to the
story?
He goes, well, he goes, the story is about pack-outs.
He goes, the story is not really about Ephraim, Ephraim is just a character, but for some
reason everyone just remembers Ephraim because of his crazy personality.
But he said, I said, well, how accurate was Jonah Hill's portrayal of Ephraim?
He goes, he said, he made him way too cuddly and nice.
I agree with him 100%.
That's exactly right.
Everyone who knows Ephraim will say that.
He said that the Ephraim in War Dogs was a teddy bear compared to the real Ephraim.
Absolutely.
He's absolutely right.
They toned him down.
The funny thing is, everyone's like, oh, is he as crazy as in the movie?
I'm like, he was way crazier than in the movie and way of a less nice person than in the
movie.
In the movie, he's kind of charming and, as he says, he's kind of like a teddy bear.
Jonah really softens his real life character a lot, makes him a lot more likeable.
They did that on purpose, actually, the screenwriter.
The screenwriter of War Dogs, Stephen Chin, when they first started writing the screenplay
came to Miami and met with me for a week and interviewed me, recorded the conversations.
He told me while he was writing the screenplay, he's like, look, I'm going to have to tone
down Ephraim.
He's like, because we need to make him likable to the audience.
No one's going to want to spend an hour and a half in the theater.
Yeah, I mean, that's how Hollywood works.
You need to have a certain formula so that it appeals to the mass, to most people and
the population.
So they had to add a certain amount of action because people like action, they have to have
a certain amount of comedy and they have to have a certain amount of relationship drama
for the girls who are getting dragged to the movie by their boyfriends.
Like the relationship drama in the movie, they have me lying to my girlfriend about
being an arms dealer and she gets super mad and dumps me and that was a big relationship
drama moment.
It never happened, right?
My girlfriend knew about the whole thing, the whole time, she was totally cool with
it.
She just wanted me to be making money.
We just had a child together.
Yeah, but they made that up because they needed to check that box of relationship drama in
a movie in order to appeal to the most, to the biggest audience.
Right, right.
Another funny thing Matt told me was one of the most memorable quotes he has from him
when he was writing the life story, the manuscript, he said they were sitting in the cell together
and he was telling him some of the stories and how he dealt with people.
And Matt said, he's like, you can't just burn every bridge Ephraim, he goes, and Ephraim's
response was, there's plenty of bridges, bro.
That sounds like him exactly and that's how he acts.
So he burns every bridge he ever has.
After he screwed me out of the deal, someone took my place and then he screwed him and
then someone took his place and then he screwed him and on and on and on, every person he's
ever worked with that I know of anyway has ended on a very bad note and feels like he's
been cheated by Ephraim.
That's just how he works.
One of the first going reeling back again to the beginning after the Xbox deal, one
of the first big arms deal as you did was to supply the uprising into Paul, is that right?
So we attempted to do that, but or I should say Ephraim attempted to do that.
You guys bid on that?
No, so it wasn't to supply the uprising, it was actually to supply the king who was trying
to suppress the uprising.
Exactly.
One of Ephraim's contacts, they were asking for attack helicopters and things like that
and he tried to put together a Save the King package as he called it, but it ended up falling
through and I think because peace broke out, I think is what happened.
So there wasn't enough time to do that deal.
Did you have any objections?
Did you talk to him about that?
I mean, this is like fucked up.
Yeah, I mean, it kind of bothered me to be honest because I was like, you know, people
are rebelling against the king and, you know, it's kind of seems to be supplying the tyrant
kind of situation and are you sure that's even legal?
And he's like, bro, just let me worry about that, okay?
You just keep on working on your fuel contracts.
I wasn't involved in that and I didn't want to be.
So yeah, you guys weren't splitting any kind of profit, it was basically just you would
take commission from the deals that you landed.
Yeah, I didn't own his company, like any share in his company.
He was still doing his own deals.
You were just basically like your individual broker sales guy.
Yeah, I was working on a commission.
Yeah, that's, it's interesting, you know, his ability to value money and making deals
over anything else.
I feel like if you're going to be in that business, you have to have that mindset.
Like you, it's a weird moral compass.
Yeah, well, I mean, I wouldn't say you have to have that mindset because plenty of people
make a, you know, a legitimate living legally and they would argue morally in that business,
you know, like there's some people who say that, you know, dealing with weapons or ammunition,
you know, at all is, you know, morally bad, right?
You know, full stop, right?
There's, there's those people and I've met those people and I've gotten hate from them
online and all that, you know.
People that just hate guns.
Yeah, in general, but like, you know, I don't think right now most of those people would
say that, hey, you know, the people supplying with Ukraine, you know, with weapons to defend
themselves from the Russians, are those people bad?
I don't think so.
Right.
You know, I think most.
The same people that are saying give Ukraine more weapons.
Exactly.
Right.
Exactly.
You know, because, you know, a gun can kill someone.
You could also defend yourself from getting killed.
So it's, it's a gun isn't a bad thing on its own.
It's a tool, right?
Right.
It's like nuclear energy could be, could supply power, it could make a bomb, you know, a knife
could chop up your vegetables or chop up your neighbor, you know, it's a, it could,
you know, most technology is dual use and it all depends on how you use it.
You know, that's, that's the key.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
