How did you get into this world of publishing books?
Yeah, so I was a lawyer for a couple of years first and then I joined my father's little
publishing company, worked with him for about seven years, then we sold the company and
then I started Sky Horse.
Is this book right here the book that kind of like really set everything off for you
guys?
Is that like your biggest selling book?
Yeah, this is definitely the best selling book that we've ever had.
And it's...
Hold it up.
Hold it up next to your face so people can see.
Yeah, and it's just a great story.
So I'd love to tell this story.
Yeah, absolutely.
But yeah, the real Anthony Fauci, I don't know where to start.
How many books did you sell of that book?
So we wound up selling more than a million copies of it, which is kind of an incredible
thing when you think about the fact that there were just clearly so many people who
didn't want anybody to read this book and they were just doing everything they could
do to make sure that the book was hard to find, that it wasn't carried in bookstores,
wasn't in libraries.
It didn't get a single review in any major newspaper in the country.
Really?
Nobody would interview Bobby Kennedy to talk about it.
I mean, they were scared to death that this was a book that was claiming that the whole
government narrative of everything Dr. Fauci was saying day after day on television that
it was just all corruption and it was all just a process of trying to make more money
and have more control over people and it was never about public health.
So the idea that a book comes out by somebody like Bobby Kennedy who's a well-known guy,
it's got 2,194 citations, it's got blurbs from doctors and lawyers, from a Nobel Prize-winning
scientist.
I mean, it should have been a really big event and it should have made senators, congresspeople
question it and want to sit down with Dr. Fauci, interview him, interrogate him and find out
whether this is true because this is somebody who's risking their whole career.
Somebody who could have had an easy life, he's a Kennedy standing up speaking out and
saying that he doesn't care what happens to him, there's no benefit to him which makes
him perfectly trustworthy and he's coming out and he's risking everything to tell the
world that Dr. Fauci is corrupt and that the government is corrupt and that they're trying
to hurt people.
What happened was they just tried to silence him in every conceivable way.
So you couldn't even place ads in newspapers, the New York Times turned down an ad, usually
they're chasing me down to get more ads.
They turned down an ad.
They turned down an ad, yeah.
And they had no reason for it so I asked them why and they said that they wouldn't take
an ad of any kind so they have this division called standards management where they look
at ads and they try to figure out if there's something in it that isn't true.
So basically they're saying they don't care whether a book makes claims that are untrue.
All that they're looking at is whether the ad itself makes claims that are untrue.
So they would not tell us anything.
They would not ask, you know, they didn't ask us to change anything.
They just said they wouldn't accept an ad in any way, shape or form with any language
for this book.
So they changed their whole policy that they had described to me clearly beforehand and
just would not place it.
So they were obviously getting pressure from the government not to be involved in any way.
So the only thing that all the major newspapers were willing to do at the time was to run
hit pieces against Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Just to say everything bad they could possibly say to try to discredit him, to try to claim
that his books and his speeches and everything that he was putting out was misinformation.
It was misleading the public and it was harmful.
But they wouldn't say why so they wouldn't debate him.
I mean, Dr. Fauci could have come out.
They're coming after us right now.
You hear them?
Yeah.
The black helicopters.
Yeah, definitely.
They are here and I don't care and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. doesn't care.
So you know, here's the thing, Dr. Fauci at the time was probably the most powerful person
in the world, right?
Yeah.
He was making all the rules that told everybody on the planet what they could do and what they
couldn't do.
So he could have gone on any show and trooped in any expert that he wanted.
So why was he so afraid?
I mean, why wasn't he willing just to meet with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. on a network TV
show and debate him to the end?
You know, so if you're really worried that there's not going to be trust in government,
the best way to do that isn't through censorship.
It's through dialogue.
It's through proving that what he's saying isn't true.
So the way that people actually become more powerful in many cases is by being censored.
Right.
Exactly.
Because people wonder, why are you doing that?
What's the point of that?
I mean, if you really have claims, go through some of those 2,194 citations and tell us
which ones of those are wrong.
Make a real argument.
So we were discussing on the phone a little bit yesterday with all the censorship that's
going on on the internet with him and some of his interviews and his videos getting taken
off YouTube.
That seems to do more harm to the people that are censoring them harm, if you want to call
it that.
But what it does is it just, it rallies that base, the people that kind of question this
stuff and the people that want to look deeper into it because people like me, when I see
something that's censored off of YouTube or censored off the New York Times, it makes
me want to look into it more and figure out what's going on and what are they actually
saying.
Right.
So it seems like that probably helped a lot with some of the book sales with this.
Well, I think what happened is, you know, we got this whole team of people and I was
part of it and I just went on to every show that would have me on, every radio show.
I mean, I was doing it all day long, just dawn to dusk, going on to small shows, big
shows, anybody who would have me.
And there was a whole group of other people doing that.
And I think that with us all doing that and Bobby Kennedy doing that, it just sort of
caught fire.
But it was not because people were hearing about it from the mainstream media.
So the idea there was they were just going to ignore him and hope that he went away.
You know, because he was doing something that's hard to do.
I mean, he was standing up to the most powerful people on the planet, you know, to the most
powerful government on the planet, the most powerful public officials probably in history.
And he was telling the American public that they were all lying.
And that's a pretty gutsy thing to do.
Yeah.
I mean, these are the most, so if you believe this book, these are the most corrupt public
officials in history.
These are the most corrupt companies in history.
You know, these are the biggest, most powerful people, the biggest, most powerful companies.
And he's standing up and saying they're liars, they're corrupt, they're stealing from the
public, they're ruining your health, you know, that these are really dangerous people.
And it was difficult for them, I think, to know what to do about it.
And I think they probably sat around thinking, if we engage in dialogue, we're going to lose
here, because we don't really have anything, right?
So we're telling the world what to do, we're forcing them to do it, we're threatening them
if they don't do exactly what we tell them to do, they're going to have consequences.
They're not going to be able to work, they're not going to be able to go to a restaurant,
to a movie, they're not going to have a life unless they do exactly what they're told.
And he was telling them not to do that.
Have you ever been contacted by intelligence?
Maybe after this show.
I would just imagine that there would be some sort of something going on, that there might
be like intimidation or something, them trying to like talk to you or influence you in some
way, like, hey man, cool it.
Yeah, I don't know, you know, how that all works, I mean, I know that there's something
like 17,000 doctors who stood up and kind of disagreed all around the world, no, no,
sort of stood up and disagreed with the mainstream narrative, with Dr. Fauci's narrative.
So you know, that's a lot of doctors, I mean, it's not a lot of doctors in the sense that
they're, you know, tens of thousands of them, but it's a lot of brave people standing up
and they did go after a lot of those people.
So they went after their medical licenses, they tried to discredit them in every way
that they could.
So it was the same kind of playbook, but there were a lot of other people in the background
just not willing to accept it.
What was it like?
Like, did he try to get this book published by any other publishers before coming to you?
Or what was that process like?
And did this book sort of open your eyes to everything that's been going on with public
health?
Yeah, I had known Bobby Kennedy for a while.
We had published his book called Thymarisol, Let the Science Speak, which I think was in
about 2014.
And when that book came out, it was the same sort of story.
I mean, it was a much smaller issue at the time, meaning that it didn't involve every
person on the planet.
But it was still a big story because Thymarisol, which is a form of mercury, you know, is in
certain vaccines now.
In the past, it was in many more, it's in many, many vaccines that are sold all around
the world in poor countries.
And Thymarisol does have really bad side effects.
And so he came out with a book that went through hundreds and hundreds of peer-reviewed studies.
And while the CDC was saying that it was perfectly safe, they said that they took it out of certain
early childhood vaccines basically because they were just being really cautious.
So they basically said, it's really safe.
We didn't do anything wrong, but we're taking it out anyway.
But then they refused to take it out of all the vaccines that they send to Africa or to
South America, to any poor country.
They get the vaccines with full mercury in them.
So the depravity of something like that, when all of these studies, I mean, this was just
an incredible research project.
And once again, they didn't respond to any of it.
So they didn't say, you know, some of these peer-reviewed stories have been proven to
be incorrect, nothing, not a word.
So the book came out once again, you know, he's claiming that tens of thousands, maybe
hundreds of thousands of children's lives are being ruined by something that's in a
vaccine that's being given to them and all the families are being told that it's perfectly
safe.
So it's the same kind of story.
And this book comes out and there's no research, there are no investigative journalists looking
at it, not a single one, nobody in the country.
I'm only about halfway through the book so far, but one of the things that kind of blew
my mind was he mentioned that Google owns two of the vaccine companies.
Yeah, there's a lot of sort of mixing up of the ownership and the boards of all of these
different companies and they're all corrupted.
Even when you look at the CDC and the FDA, you find that people working for the government
can own a piece of a patent.
So they're supposed to be regulating one of the pharmaceutical companies, for example.
And yet if they approve something, if they approve a drug or a vaccine, they can actually
earn royalties on it.
So the entire public health system is just riddled with these conflicts of interest.
And once again, nobody is investigating it, nobody is, you know, there's no sort of watchdog
group that's looking at each vaccine or each drug really, really carefully.
There's nobody protecting the American public.
Bobby Kennedy sometimes says that the only people standing in front of real harm to children
in this country are mothers.
You know, the mothers know their own children, they know what their weaknesses are, they
know that if they had a prior vaccine and had a bad reaction to it, maybe they're more
likely to with another one.
But the whole idea of public health now is just to give the exact same thing to everybody.
And so the reason there is that it's all about the money, because if you were not concerned
with just maximizing your return on investment, you would look at all the subtleties.
You would say, well, do we want to give the same dosage to a kid who weighs 200 pounds
that we give to a kid who weighs, you know, 50 pounds?
But they don't do any of that.
They have no concern for public health.
They just want to help their pharmaceutical partners make as much money as they can at
the expense of, you know, millions and millions of people's health.
So how did the relationship with you and Bobby begin?
Was it when he wanted to publish that first book?
Yeah.
So I had listened to him giving speeches at various places, something like, I don't know,
maybe 12, 14 years ago.
And he had given some speeches in New York City where I lived or where I still live.
And in those speeches, he had just been really convincing that there was this growing corruption
in public health.
So I was really happy to publish that book.
And then I stayed in touch with him.
And when this book was ready, you know, I was all in to hear the whole story, to learn
about it.
I was part of the entire process.
Oh, really?
Of writing it?
No, no, no.
Not of not writing it, but I read it several times and I was in close touch with all of
his team.
And his team was just this incredible team of fact-checkers.
And they were so meticulous.
And I could see that Bobby was working on this book 16 hours a day, seven days a week for,
you know, something like 10 months.
I mean, he was just at it and he was, you know, so incredibly invested in it for one
reason only.
Not that he was going to make a penny.
He doesn't even get royalties on the book.
So there was nothing in it for him.
He doesn't make any money off of it?
Not a penny.
Wow.
It all goes to children's health defense, which is this nonprofit here.
So his only concern was to protect people's health, you know, primarily children.
And he was so dedicated to that.
And that's why, you know, that's why I think he would make such a great president, because
I don't think we've had a president in recent history where the person is just really dedicated
to make the world better, to solve problems.
You know, not just public health problems, but any problem.
And so, you know, part of the reason that we've published this other book, which is
The Real RFK Junior, is, I mean, it's the same kind of title.
Yeah, same kind of title.
But the idea was that, was that many people have an idea of who they think Robert F. Kennedy
Junior is.
And they have that idea because of an incredible sort of a PSYOP of control over what the media
does and also over, you know, what people think.
So when you have just incredible censorship on the one hand, then you have incredible
propaganda and the whole media is sort of helping with that propaganda, almost like
they're reading, you know, from the same press release that's given to them from Dr. Fauci
or somebody working with Dr. Fauci.
So how are you ever going to know who a candidate is if that candidate is censored so incredibly?
I mean, even when he went on to ABC News, they taped him for, I don't know, something
like an hour, then they cut it down.
Then they weren't even happy with cutting it down.
So they cut out some of the things that they didn't like and tailored it to a presentation
that they were happy with.
But even that, they decided to kind of bookend it with disclaimers saying that it was misinformation
or that Bobby Kennedy shouldn't be trusted.
And then they added in that many of the claims had been debunked by serious scientists.
So that is so incredibly improper in a democracy to do that.
I mean, this is a candidate, a serious candidate.
He's polling at, you know, 20 to 30% of the Democratic Party, you know, at the very least,
they should bring in people who disagree with him then, you know, and give him the opportunity
to respond.
But to let him speak and then dissect it, put the disclaimers in there, call him names,
call it misinformation, and not give him a chance to respond to any of those counterclaims.
Yeah, I saw something recently where someone combined like all of the recent articles that
have been published about him in like big publications and every single, there was like
10 headlines that all started the headline with anti-vaxxer, Robert Kennedy Jr.
Right.
And it's bonkers, man, like they use that to just like discredit him as an anti-vaxxer.
And my apologies if I haven't done the research, but what does he say that, what does he say
can be done if he was to become president as far as kind of reforming public health
in the country and fixing some of the issues that he talks about in the book?
Yeah, so I think one of the first things he would do, you know, what he says time after
time is that the people running the agencies of the U.S. government, the FDA, the CDC,
the EPA, many of those people, many of the top people are corrupt, but most of the people
working there are honest, sincere, hardworking people who really care, who studied for years
and years, who did all kinds of research, and he believes firmly that they really want
to do the right thing.
But the problem is that the most corrupt and the most greedy people rise to the top.
That this is a country that's just based on money, and you have to find a way to kind
of decouple money from public health or from any of the other agencies.
So you can't have this sort of system where time after time people work for the government,
and they go work for Pfizer or some other big company, and they all know that their
whole life is tied to greenlighting certain products.
So when people say that Robert F. Kennedy is an anti-vaxxer, you know, that's a ridiculous
statement in the sense that what he said all along is that he wants to look at the safety
of vaccines.
He wants to look at what's put in the vaccines and what those things are doing to people.
So that doesn't make you an anti-vaxxer, it doesn't make you anti-anything.
That's just a word that they come up with to confuse people in the same way that they
use words like misinformation or disinformation or malinformation or, you know, even domestic
terrorist or they just come up with all of these terms, conspiracy theorist, when they
don't have a real argument to disprove it.
Because if they believed in dialogue and debate, then you wouldn't have to call people names.
I mean, people should not be against vaccines or for vaccines any more than they're for
a pill.
So you look at a pill, nobody would say pills are safe, right?
So the question is, what pill is it?
What's in it?
Right.
Let's research it.
Let's figure it out.
What is a vaccine?
It's a delivery mechanism for things that are in it.
So if you put cyanide in a vaccine, I think we could agree that that wouldn't be a good
thing, right?
So if you're putting mercury in a vaccine and mercury is toxic to a child's brain, clearly
that's not a good thing.
If you're putting aluminum in there, is that safe?
What's the research say?
Perfectly fine for serious people to question what's being put into their children's bodies.
Yeah.
I mean, it's insane for them not to question that.
It seems like if he's anti anything, he's anti pharmaceutical companies.
What I don't see that he's really anti anything other than the greed and corruption that have
taken over this country.
I mean, if you look at some of the research that's been done on vegetables and berries,
which we would all think of vegetables, salad, blueberries, raspberries, they're all great
for you, right?
But even there, you have to think about, well, what's on them?
Are these just doused with drenched with pesticides?
And if they are, they could be the most toxic foods out there.
I mean, you might be better off eating a candy bar than having broccoli that has pesticides
in it.
So it's not about what the delivery mechanism is.
So if it's organic broccoli that's really good, healthy, clean broccoli or good, healthy,
clean meat, that's probably really good for you.
But you want to know.
You could see two pieces of steak and one of them could be pumped up with hormones.
They could look exactly the same.
One of them could have all kinds of chemicals in it.
You wouldn't want to feed that to your family.
You would look at the other piece of steak and you'd have no way of knowing that that
steak is fed much better foods, isn't pumped up with hormones or other drugs, is grass
fed.
I mean, any of those kinds of things really matter and there's nothing wrong with people
wanting to investigate these incredibly large, powerful, greedy companies and a government
that is in bed with them.
So we need more people like Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
And I think that there are thousands and thousands of people who are seeing what he's done and
seeing how he's suffered in his quest to kind of make the world more accountable.
I mean, how is it that the New York Times or the Washington Post, that they don't question
the fact that we're the richest, most powerful country on the planet and our children are
the least healthy?
I mean, how does that happen?
So I can tell you how that happens.
Is that true?
Are our children healthy?
Oh, sure.
I mean, you can go to third world countries all around the world and their infant mortality
rates are lower.
Their rates of autism are lower.
Their rates of allergies are lower.
So how is that possible?
Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso.
We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition, exercise and sleep
as we age.
It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at length with doctors
and nutritional scientists on this podcast.
That is why I use Verso.
Verso is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that
hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD levels with powerful
ingredients such as NMN, transverse varitrol and TMG.
NAD plus is arguably one of the most powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age.
Keeping NAD plus levels high helps guide longevity genes called certuans.
Certuans are called longevity genes because by activating them, they support overall health
and slow down aging related effects by regulating important processes inside of cells.
High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damage DNA and ramp up energy production
in your brain, immune system and muscles.
Now you can't take NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb,
but NMN directly converts to NAD plus while resveratrol activates your certuans, which
increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN
on its own.
Verso also publishes third party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code CONCREETEDCHECKOUT to save 15% off your
entire order, or go to ver.so forward slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E right now.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
It seems like these big publications are very much co-opted by intelligence and by the government.
I had a guy in here a few months ago, Jack Murphy, who was doing a report on...he was
doing a report on some spy operations, some sabotage operations that were going on in
Russia and some railroad tracks being blown up and some factories being lit on fire.
He was basically through all of his sources and everyone he talked to, what he discovered
was that there was a NATO ally that was working with CIA to conduct some of these operations.
He was working with one of these top three publications in the U.S. on this story for
probably six months, close to six months.
Right when they were getting ready to press the publish button on it, his editor at that
publication said, we got to clear this with the deputy director of the CIA.
Got in a quick phone call with deputy director and he said he has an off-the-record agreement
with this publication.
He could basically say anything he wants, yes or no, or kill this or don't kill this.
They have to do that and they have to keep it completely off the record.
For example, if he wanted to publish the article and the publication was going to publish it
and say, this is what Jack says, but the deputy director of the CIA denies this, this and
this and this and this.
They can't do that.
They just say, okay, deputy director disagrees, we're going to kill the article.
That's what happens with some of the biggest publications.
They're all in cahoots with, and look, I get it.
I understand that CIA's job is to keep covert ops off the front pages to protect national
security or whatever it might be.
In this case, it just blows my fucking mind that it is literally affecting the health
and the lives of kids in our own country and they're still getting away with it.
That's what happens when people get too much power.
There was a Rachel Maddow clip that I saw yesterday, which was Rachel Maddow talking
to Chuck Schumer, and they were discussing some claims that Trump had made where he was
coming down hard on the CIA and the FBI.
This is six years ago, and Chuck Schumer said with a smirk on his face that Trump will learn
what happens when you go against the intelligence agencies in this country.
He seemed to in some way be proud of that.
That was a scary moment, but it's easy to find and it's real.
He obviously knows that they have an incredible amount of power, too much power.
It's the same kind of thing.
Robert F. Kennedy, Bobby's father, was a corruption fighter, and he was saying the
same kinds of things, and JFK was saying the same kinds of things.
They were likely shut down for saying those things.
They were likely killed for saying those kinds of things.
It is very serious, and like I said, it's very real.
It's hard for a lot of people to imagine that there could be people out there who would
give children something that isn't safe.
I think that's one of the reasons why people often don't believe it, because they don't
think that there could be this many powerful people.
It's like the general theory that if the conspiracy is too big, then it can't be real.
People are willing to imagine a conspiracy whether five or 10 really bad people get together,
but how can it be thousands and thousands of people?
But you look at something like the opioid crisis, and you see the same kind of thing.
They were years where I think 200,000 people died unnecessarily from that, and that's not
long ago.
I don't think that's just the Sackler family.
They were the face of it, but it was pretty clear that many of the other big pharmaceutical
companies were doing exactly the same thing, and then people all the way down the chain
were just following it, from the government to the doctors to the pharmacists.
They were all taking part in it.
If you see that and you see that they were hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people
killed unnecessarily, why is it such a leap to think that maybe they would approve and
sell and force you to take and give exemptions for safety to all of these big companies who
are creating a COVID vaccine that maybe doesn't work and maybe harms millions and millions
of people?
That shouldn't be such a leap of faith.
That should be a real sincere fear after what we saw with the opioid crisis and what we
saw with mercury in early childhood vaccines and what we saw with Vioxx and what we've seen
just time after time after time.
Everybody should be shocked by that, but it is hard to go up against these just incredibly
powerful forces.
When it comes to the presidential race, which it's kind of premature right now, but it seems
like he is the only one that is openly talking about it and being interviewed about it.
I don't see Trump, Trump's doing a little bit, I guess, but it's not really covered.
I don't see much of it.
I know he's doing rallies and he's doing these big talks.
I don't think Biden's saying anything about it.
Who is there besides Biden that has a chance, do you think, on the Democratic side?
Well, so let's go back to the first thing that you said, that nobody else really seems
to be running now.
I think that's a great point because I don't think Biden really ran for president in 2020,
but he's certainly not running for president now because all of his handlers, all of the
people on his team, they want him to say as little as possible.
They would never let him debate Bobby Kennedy.
They would never let him debate anybody that he didn't absolutely have to.
So Bobby Kennedy, on the other hand, is flying all around the country talking to anybody who
will talk to him on every show, big shows, little shows.
He is going full throttle 24-7 because he knows that he has to break through this censorship.
He went down to the border, I think it was last week or possibly the week before, and
who else has gone down to the border?
So he actually created breaking news.
So the mainstream media didn't really cover it.
So you didn't see a big New York Times front page story.
But he pointed out, he interviewed something like 150 people, and he found people from
all around the world who were coming across the southern border with nobody stopping them,
with no system, no plan, and they were from Africa, they were from China, they were from
South America.
I mean, they were from everywhere on the planet.
So that's a real problem, and that's not xenophobic, that's not racist.
It's a problem that we have to have a plan.
The plan could take a lot of different forms, but he has said that he would make the southern
border impervious.
And I think that's a great statement.
I mean, what major power in this world just lets people walk across their border?
I mean, why would you do that?
We clearly need people to do certain kinds of jobs in this country, and we have shortages
of all kinds of workers.
But we could easily come up with a process where we say, hey, the country is short of
carpenters.
Let's bring in carpenters from all around the world.
And they can have paperwork, they can be processed correctly.
There's no reason for this to be so, and there's nothing wrong with having a real plan.
And I think so.
One of the things that clearly Bobby Kennedy would do is he would have a plan, which doesn't
mean even that so many fewer people would come.
It means that the immigrants coming into this country would do so in an organized fashion.
We would know who they are.
We would have some kind of balance of where they're from, what their skills are.
I mean, that's just good planning.
Everybody should want that.
I guess something Trump ran on too, though, right?
Like he ran on the border wall and built in that wall, but I don't think he did much.
I don't think much got done.
It seems like when people run on these grandiose ideas, and again, I don't hear him touting
it the way Trump was touting it.
But there's this thing that seems to happen throughout history when people will run on
these things and once they get into office, it's like there's some guys that come in
in suits and say, this is going to happen.
This is not going to happen.
Yeah.
I'm sure he's got to be aware of that with his family history.
But I think part of the reason that Trump wasn't able to get anything done in that area
and in some other areas is that so many people hated him so much and vilified him so much
that they had this idea that anything Trump said, even if it was just accidentally correct,
anything at all that Trump said, they just wanted to do the opposite.
And I think that that's where Biden got into trouble with the border, that he then told
the whole world that we were going to have this kinder and gentler border where we were
going to treat people better.
So what is that telling people?
So he's not going to have any plan.
He's not going to have any real border.
And he's telling people that they should come, that they're not going to be processed, that
they're not going to be not going to have to have paperwork.
We're not going to have to know anything about who they are or where they're from.
And of course, that was going to result in a lot more people coming and the border getting
less and less organized.
So I think that Alan Dershowitz's book that I have here too, which is called Get Trump.
And the threat to civil liberties due process and our constitutional rule of law by Alan
Dershowitz.
So the idea there is that so many people just wanted to get Trump, wanted to get rid of Trump,
wanted to discredit Trump, that they did not care at all whether he had a good idea
in one specific area or whether it was a bad policy.
So the whole point was just get Trump at any way you can.
And part of that may well have come.
Chuck Schumer may have been right that he went up against the intelligence agencies
and they were going to find a way to get him back.
And in that clip, Chuck Schumer with a smile on his face says they will find a way to get
you back.
They always do.
Right.
So I think that's a great point that Alan Dershowitz makes and that Bobby's made many,
many times too, is that when you give up rights, it's not so easy to get them back.
So people say, well, we want to get rid of COVID so we can force people to do all kinds
of things.
Answer them.
We can make them stay home.
We can do everything that we want just as long as we have this goal to end this crisis.
Or we can try to get rid of Trump and just say it's okay to do anything.
Take away all of our constitutional rights.
Let's just get rid of Trump.
Let's get rid of COVID.
Let's end the war on drugs and the war on anything.
I mean, there's always a war on something.
So there's always a reason now for people to give up their constitutional rights because
we're in this constant state of war.
But the problem is that once you give up rights, it's not so easy to get them back.
Once you give them up, you might never see those rights.
Yeah, that's very true.
And it's clear throughout history.
Alan Dershowitz, he's an interesting one.
Was he in a similar boat to Bobby Kennedy, to where he was having issues with censorship
and getting his stuff published?
He was having a lot of censorship and my view of him is that he stands for the rule of law.
So he's a real lawyer in the sense that he believes in the constitutional right to have
a sincere, hardworking lawyer defend you.
And that you can't be guilty in this country till you're proven in a court of law to be
guilty.
And then we get into the whole question of cancel culture.
And so he was right in the middle of that, wrote a book for us called Cancel Culture.
But we've gotten in this country to the point where, and one of his books was called Guilt
by Accusation.
And the idea there is that you can accuse somebody of something and then they have all
the consequences or at least many of the consequences that they would have as if they had gotten
their day in court and were found guilty.
Right.
And especially when you have these mainstream publications that have so much trust by a
lot of the people in the country, like the New York Times posting things.
And people take it seriously because they're posting stuff when they have throughout history
clearly been wrong about stuff and they've gone back and fixed stuff.
But they fixed stuff on page 22.
So they run their big stories.
The Biden laptop was Russian disinformation.
I think they ran seven stories on that.
And they ran a whole bunch of stories that Bobby Kennedy was one of the disinformation
dozen.
I never heard that one before.
That whole story of the disinformation dozen that came out right at the right time was
that they're these dangerous people who are going to tell you things that aren't true.
We don't have to disprove them.
We don't have to have any real discussion even though we say it's a democracy.
We can just tell you that they're part of the disinformation dozen.
Nobody even knows where that comes from.
So it comes from this very little nonprofit that's very well funded from a bunch of kind
of shadowy groups that didn't exist before.
So it's this entity which has no gravitas, no history, no scientists working there who
have researched things.
So how do they decide who the disinformation dozen is?
And it's obvious how they decided.
They were told who to put on that list because that was a government operation to control
the narrative and they had to create these villains and they had to say that everything
that they said was wrong.
Even in many cases where it's so clear that what they said was right.
And even if at the time many people thought it was wrong, now it's sort of mainstream
knowledge that you can still get COVID if you're vaccinated.
You can still spread COVID if you're vaccinated.
You can still get heart problems if you weren't at no risk from COVID.
You can get heart problems and you can die of those heart problems.
So all of those claims which were considered to be disinformation by all of the major newspapers,
you take somebody like Dr. Merkola who's a sort of a well-known natural health doctor,
has a big, has a podcast and a daily newsletter and he was called part of the disinformation
dozen too.
The New York Times wrote a big hit piece on him.
Then they did a video on him which was at a very high level.
So they were really going after him on all these different kind of platforms in the same
way that they went after Bobby.
And so the fact that Dr. Merkola and Bobby Kennedy and so many other doctors and scientists
were actually even by the mainstream now, they've been proven to be right.
Nobody has apologized to any of them.
Nobody's taken them off the list of the disinformation dozen.
Nobody's taken down.
The Times hasn't run articles saying, hey, we're really sorry that we said these things
about Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
We're really sorry that we said all these bad things with so many people, just hundreds
and hundreds of people vilified, have their lives ruined and they were right.
And it isn't even clear now in many cases how right they actually were.
And when it comes to presidential candidates, it seems like the ones that the quote-unquote
deep state, whatever you want to call it, that one of the best terms that Trump came
up with, my favorite one was the drain the swamp.
I think that he was right on point with that, it is a fucking swamp.
But the people that they're worried about the most are the people that can't be controlled
via Wall Street.
The ones that Wall Street, they don't need the funding from Wall Street, Trump being
one of them.
I don't know Bobby's situation with that.
It seems like some of the people who are most controlled by Wall Street are the ones that
are most easily controlled, period.
I mean, Bobby Kennedy can't be controlled by anybody because he's not in it for the money,
he's not in it for the power, doesn't want to go to Washington and be a politician for
the rest of his life.
He believes that we're at this kind of turning point in history and that we're at this point
where the future of mankind is at serious risk.
So I think he wants to be president to kind of set it right, to put people in at the heads
of all these agencies who will actually change them, who will decouple them from Wall Street,
from the big pharmaceutical companies, from the big agribusiness companies and set the
world in a better direction and then go home.
And with the FDA specifically too, when you're talking about some of the big pharmaceutical
companies, but FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, they don't pay attention to food at all.
I just had a guy in here who was a former executive at the FDA, he was in charge of
the supplement branch of the FDA, I forget the exact title he had, but he was saying
that I think it's upwards of 90% of their budget comes from pharmaceutical companies
and less than 5% of their focus is on actual food.
And food is a huge problem in the country with over-processed foods and the amount of people
that are unhealthy and overweight, that's a major part of it.
Yeah, yeah.
And then there are all these...
Well, so I mean, the first point is a great point and there was a...
To the New York Times' credit, they ran a good story on how something like 75% of the
FDA's budget comes from the companies that they're supposed to be regulating.
So it's just so clear that that kind of system won't work.
It just can't work.
It's just much too much of a conflict of interest.
And the idea of it was that they would get good products, products that would help people
to market quicker.
So that's how they sold it to the government, that they said, look, we're willing to pay
for the CDC, we're willing to pay for the FDA, we're willing to pay for the EPA.
And all that we want is a much quicker process.
But the problem is that with a lot of these things, you don't want a quick process.
You don't want a quick process with something that you're going to put into the arms or
the stomachs of billions of people on this planet.
You want real caution and real research and you want to listen to dissenting voices.
So you don't want to, like I said before, weaponize all these terms, misinformation,
disinformation, conspiracy theory, as a way to just get an outcome that you want.
And the outcome is really just more money and power.
It's not health, it's not progress, it's not speed to market of life-saving drugs.
I mean, that they could have done at any time.
It's a process by which everything is controlled by the most powerful people.
So Bobby often talks about how the middle class has been gutted in the last few years,
that there was a new billionaire, I think, every day during COVID.
And so the middle class got poorer and poorer and a really small number of billionaires
got richer and richer and more and more powerful.
And so when you look at that, there's a system in place now which isn't good for anybody.
And it's so clear.
I mean, even the mainstream newspapers run stories like this one.
And Bobby quotes this one from time to time.
And that story is about how 53% of the people in this country don't have $1,000 that they
could spend on an unexpected charge, like a medical charge that came in.
So the richest country in the world with more billionaires than any other country, more
powerful corporations than any other country, and yet the country itself is suffering.
So we're not only extracting money from countries all around the world, but we're not happy
with that.
We're not happy with our sort of empire that we're extracting money and bringing it back
to the people of this country.
But we want to also extract the money from most of the actual people who live in this
country so that, like I said, there's worse healthcare here than in third world countries.
They're worth health outcomes here than in third world countries.
Yeah, we're like below Costa Rica when it comes to health outcomes here, I think.
I think I heard Bobby say that.
Yeah.
So that, I think, is really what Bobby is fighting.
It's not about vaccines.
It's about corruption.
And it's about corruption in all areas, corruption at the border, corruption in our foreign policy,
and with our funding of other countries, and corruption with pharmaceutical companies
and agribusiness companies.
And it's just a whole system that is sort of like a system of funneling money from the
people who do the work to a very small number of people.
And with no regard whatsoever to, like you said, the health outcomes of millions and millions
of people all around the world, or their lives, or trying to actually make their lives
better.
Yeah.
I mean, there's so much focus in our government on different countries around the world overseas
with the military-industrial complex, and there's so little focus on what's actually
happening to the people inside our own country, like inside the walls of the United States
when it comes to how much we pay for healthcare, or how much these inner cities that are dealing
with this poverty, like figuring out a better way to educate people.
To make your country better, you want to have smarter people.
You want people to have an opportunity, or at least a shot, if they're interested, to
get a higher education and become something, they should at least get that shot.
And that's something that has always been overlooked in my lifetime, at least, I feel
like.
Yeah.
And then there's all this sort of crazy stuff going on where we're sending something
like $200 billion to Ukraine, and we're funding that by cutting people's benefits here.
So we're sort of saying, screw you to the middle class here, and we're getting involved
in some war there, and we're actually pretty clear on what our objective is.
It's not to save Ukraine.
It's not to make people's lives better, even in Ukraine.
I mean, it's clearly making people's lives worse here, because we can't do any domestic
projects here.
We can't deal with homelessness here.
We can't give people decent benefits here.
But it's all about weakening Russia.
It's all about this sort of chessboard of the world.
And so people have to recognize that this whole period where everybody had a Ukrainian
flag in the back of their car, in their front lawn, hanging from their window.
That's funny.
You said a Ukrainian restaurant just opened down the street from here.
I've never heard of a Ukrainian restaurant before.
I've never had anyone say to me, hey, you want to go get some Ukraine food?
Never.
So when you think about it now, in the same way that people think that maybe Bobby Kennedy
is crazy, and they think that because they've been told to think that by the most powerful,
most well-funded people on the planet who are running these disinformation campaigns
and these propaganda campaigns.
So they don't want you to know who the real RFK junior is, which is why we did this book.
But at the same time, they're telling people it's all about Ukraine.
We're going to make our stand in Ukraine.
Nobody even knows what they're fighting for or who they're fighting for or what the plan
is.
So they've forgotten all about Afghanistan because they've been told to forget about
Afghanistan.
But they shouldn't because Afghanistan is a big problem.
I mean, there are millions and millions of people there who believed in us, who believe
the things that we told them, who believed that our adventure there wasn't about politics.
It was about actually wanting to help people in this country.
So we went there.
We spent, I don't know, a trillion dollars, some huge amount of money that's inconceivable
to anybody listening and is inconceivable to me.
And we spent it there and we got nothing for it, nothing.
I mean, the people there are no better off now.
And to some extent, they're probably worse off because it's possible that certain countries
have kind of a development that takes time and that there's sort of steady progress that
they could make and then it would be legitimate and long lasting.
So we went there and we promised that we were going to give them a shortcut to real lasting
change where people were going to have rights that they never had before.
The idea was that they would have rights like we have here, but they didn't get that.
And so they got the taste of what it's like.
But then they got the incredible disillusionment that they had been lied to too.
So the same government that's been lying to the people in this country has lied to people
all around the world in the promises that they've made, that they really are looking
out for their welfare.
And you have to kind of wonder, why did we go to Iraq?
Why did we go into Syria?
Why did we go to Afghanistan?
And why is there no kind of reconciliation of that whole story?
Like we changed the world there.
I mean, there were millions of refugees who flooded the entire planet.
We had no objective.
We didn't succeed in anything that anybody can point to yet, you know, because we have
so much power, we didn't commit any war crimes.
You know, Russia's said to be committing war crimes all the time.
And for all I know, they actually are.
But it's inconceivable that in this, you know, almost 20 year period of us fighting wars
in all these countries, bombing people all around the world when we say we care about
the environment, where we say we care about gun control or something like that.
But why were we really doing all of this?
And the idea is that it's the same kinds of issues that are raised in the real Anthony
Fauci, that it's all about money and power.
And if it's not really all about money and power, then I say, you know, explain to me
what it was about.
Right.
I don't think anyone's denying it was all about money and power.
What are his specific ideas when it comes to foreign policy?
Because that's something I haven't heard him really talk about.
Yeah.
So he says that he wants to bring the troops home from all around the world and, you know,
try to have the kind of peace that his uncle described, that his uncle didn't want to go
to Vietnam at the end.
He was getting closer to real negotiations with Russia.
He was an incredibly well-loved US president in Russia.
There were people, you know, put up posters of him in Russia, but all around the world
people put up posters of John F. Kennedy, because they believed that he stood for peace,
that he wanted to envision a world where we could peacefully coexist with people.
And so I think that that is Bobby's view.
Now, you know, clearly there are times when you have to have some kind of armed response
and it has to be decisive.
But I think that it's clear that so much of it for us now is just, once again, about
making money.
It's about making weapons that we're never going to use.
It's about selling weapons to countries all around the world.
It's a game, but real people die in these games and real people's lives are ruined permanently,
just as in the COVID vaccine game and in many other of these kinds of things.
I mean, it seems like you've become like the publisher of dissidents.
Did that start with the Anthony Fauci book or was that sort of the truth, did that happen
way before this?
Yeah.
I don't remember a specific turning point, but you know, we're the biggest publisher
of JFK assassination books.
I think we publish something like 60 of them, many of the real classics.
And but I think that there's been this, you know, period since World War II where there's
been more and more corruption and a more and more powerful government.
So I don't know when that turning point was for me, but there've just been case after
case of it and it's grown to be a bigger and bigger part of what I think about all day
long.
Yeah.
And now talking to John too, John Kariaku, he's an interesting one too, like we were
talking about earlier how the government uses and they try to throw blame on some of
the worst things that they've done, like enhanced interrogation, throwing it on John Kariaku.
Where he was really trying to stop it.
Right.
Right.
This incredible bureaucratic force that is just unstoppable, which is clearly the case
in his situation being sent to prison.
Right.
So if you disagree and if you push back and you don't kind of toe the line, you suffer
consequences and John Kariaku is an incredible example of that, you know, as is somebody
like Snowden.
Right.
What sort of blowback have you received in your life, like personally, since doing this
kind of stuff?
And do you have or do you try to get discredited personally for publishing some of this stuff
or what's it like for you?
Yeah.
Some of the time people ask me whether I'm afraid of the consequences and I think that's
a good question, you know, because a lot of people have suffered really bad consequences.
But I think for me personally, I'm more afraid of the consequences of not publishing the
books that I want to publish or that I think are important for people to read and not personally
just coming out and saying what I believe.
So if there are going to be consequences, I think that the consequences of saying what
you honestly believe and, you know, fighting for freedom of speech, that so far outweighs
anything that anybody could ever do to me.
You know, that I want to be able to be proud of things that I've done in my life.
When I'm laying on my deathbed and hopefully when I'm 120, I want to think through not
that I backed down or that I complied or that I was, you know, afraid to publish something
or to say something or to do something or to make a choice that I believed in.
And I think, you know, one of the great things that's happening in this country now is that
I think COVID brought that out in a lot of people.
So I think that, you know, five years ago, there were a lot fewer people who questioned
their government, who questioned public health choices, who, you know, there were many, many
more people who just believed what they read or what they heard and did what they were
told.
And then bragged about how much freedom they had, you know, versus other countries.
But I think that during COVID, we've had this incredible force of people just saying no.
People just saying, I don't believe this, you know, that the government isn't telling
me the truth.
The New York Times isn't telling me the truth.
I can't believe that the books on the New York Times bestseller list are actually the
ones selling better.
I can't believe that I really need to be protected from Bobby Kennedy or the disinformation
dozen.
And so those people have led to this kind of show and so many other shows where, you
know, hundreds of millions of people all around the world are hearing information that isn't
censored and that isn't controlled.
And that I think has never been true before.
So, you know, I don't know where that leads, but I think one of the ways that you see that
is you see that with a campaign like Donald Trump's campaign, you know, where 35% of the
people who are going to vote for Bernie Sanders voted for Donald Trump and they were just voting
for an outsider.
They were voting for somebody who they thought couldn't be controlled.
And I think that if Bobby Kennedy was allowed to actually speak to the American public,
and if Biden started actually running against him and they debated and people were able
to kind of honestly look in their newspapers and on their TV shows at two different visions
of what's going on in the world.
Biden telling you that the government's honest, that everything that they do is for your benefit
and Bobby Kennedy saying that that isn't true.
I think the American public would not vote for Biden, that they would not want Biden to
be their president.
And it's pretty clear that they don't want him to be their president, but they're not
allowed to see that there's a really strong alternative.
It's become clear that the generation of people who, which is getting older and older,
the generation who consumes content, podcast content specifically, people have more of
a trust for that kind of stuff because it's long form discussions that are unedited, not
curated on television, it's stuff that like, you know, everyone has their own favorite
podcasters that they trust and there's more of this growing sort of like organic movement
online with podcasters and Bobby has been on some of the biggest podcasts recently.
I think he was on, I think even his podcast with Theo Vaughn got shut down or deleted
the Theo Vaughn's big comedian and he, I was just listening to it like two weeks ago.
It had like two, three million views or something like that and I went back to it the other
day to sort of like finish watching the last 30 minutes of it and it was completely gone.
Yeah, so yeah, that's a great point.
So there's been some focus on there being less censorship now than there was during sort
of like the height of COVID.
But you see time after time now that there's a lot of censorship right now.
Right.
And it's sort of quieter, but you know, there are things being taken down, you know, shows
that Bobby Kennedy did that were up on YouTube that you can't find there now.
Right.
So they just sort of take them down.
They don't even tell you that they take them down.
They just quietly take things down.
So I think it's probably a little bit like Twitter that there are probably people who
are embedded there.
Oh yeah.
And that those people are acting for, you know, government agencies to kind of curate
things and just try to sort of spin it towards Biden, that Biden doesn't have to run, Biden
doesn't have to talk.
He's just going to be handed the presidency.
Yeah, but here's where I question that.
Personally, when I see one or two or three or four podcasts get shut down by Bobby Kennedy,
but then he's on Jordan Peterson with no censorship, not even demonetized, getting millions of
views.
These biggest podcast breaking points with millions of views, they're not shutting those
down.
Those are important podcasts.
Yeah.
A lot of people pay attention to those podcasts.
So when I see some of those other podcasts get shut down, they're doing it almost just
enough to get people's attention.
They're censoring just enough to show people, look, we're going to censor him.
So it's, but we're still going to let it go on some of these bigger platforms.
So it's like enough to get his message out, enough to show what he's talking about.
But look, he's being censored at the same time.
So it's almost like they're riling people up.
It's like lighting a fire under their ass even more.
So I always wonder, where is there, is there any reverse psychology going on here?
Because it doesn't seem like it's hurting him at all, right?
It seems like it's helping him.
And I don't think these people are dumb.
Yeah.
So, you know, I always like to think about those kinds of things too, you know, what
are the plans?
And, you know, Biden is a tough one, you know, so if you really want Biden to be president
for four more years, you know, it's hard to imagine that anybody would really want that
other than just as a figurehead, he's been president.
Maybe it's just a, just an easy road.
But I don't, I mean, I think that Bobby's able to break through and get on all of these
shows and these shows are harder to shut down.
So if you try to shut down Jordan Peterson or, you know, Tucker Carlson.
So, you know, Tucker Carlson, it's a, you know, it's a strange story.
What happened in the last couple of weeks where there were people writing stories that
his new project on Twitter that it was failing, even when it was just starting.
But if you look up his first show, it's got more than 120 million views now.
When has there ever been a show that's gotten 120 million views?
I mean, he was getting 3.5 million viewers when he was at Fox.
So how can anybody call that a failure?
You know, when Bobby Kennedy posted on Twitter his take on what had happened to Tucker Carlson,
he got something like 12 million views for that.
What did he say about it?
He just said that he believed that it was a sign of corruption, that it was him going
against really powerful people.
It was him in the prior week he had had Bobby Kennedy on, where Bobby was talking all about
the Ukraine war.
Oh yes, this was right before he left, when he got fired.
Yeah, it was like three or four days before.
So Bobby was just saying that he believed that it was a sign of the same kind of censorship,
the same kind of corruption that he's been calling out in all areas of the government.
And that clearly resonated with millions and millions of people.
But then once again, like you don't see the New York Times running a front page story
on Bobby Kennedy's tweet getting 12 or 14 million views or Tucker Carlson's first new
show getting 120 million views, I mean you would think that would be a big story.
Why aren't their front page stories saying that?
And so all of it, I mean even with the indictment of Trump and whether you love Trump or not,
as Alan Dershowitz says in Get Trump, you have to believe in constitutional rights or
not believe in them.
So you can't say we're going to leave Hunter Biden and not indict him and not really follow
that story wherever it leads, but we're going to try to take down Trump and still really
have a constitution.
Didn't Bobby say that he was actually good friends with like the head of Fox at one
point when he was talking about, he would go on there all the time to talk about the
environment and some of the environmental issues he was getting behind.
But as soon as he wanted to talk about these pharmaceutical companies, he was like, I will
never have you on Fox and if any of my anchors ever do get you on independently, they'll
be fired.
Yeah, so I think that that story or at least the way that I heard it was that he met him
at a restaurant and he kind of asked him why he wouldn't let him talk about these kinds
of things or why he wouldn't have them on to talk about the kinds of things that he really
wanted to talk about and that he thought were newsworthy.
And the guy from Fox said 70%, actually I don't think the guy was from Fox.
But it was from some big, big network.
And he said 70% of our advertising comes from pharmaceutical companies.
So we just can't do it.
We would fall apart if we didn't do it.
So you see that on all sides, that the companies are funding all of the media.
They're funding the universities that are doing all the research so that people are
afraid to come up with science that disproves the people who fund it.
There was something on, somebody posted something on Twitter that I thought was kind of funny,
which was that 97% of the science that's done in this country agrees with the people who
are funding it.
And the other 3%, they get censored and deplatformed.
That's heavy.
I mean, I have no idea if that's true, but I believe that it is the vast majority of
the science that actually gets peer reviewed and makes it all the way through and is taken
seriously is science that is just helpful to the people who are funding it.
Right.
But now in the real Anthony Fauci book, the sort of subtitle is Bill Gates, Big Pharma
and the War on Democracy.
What specifically was Bill Gates, what was his biggest role in this whole thing that
he talks about in the book?
Yeah.
So one of the big roles is that Bill Gates was a big proponent of vaccines, of the COVID
vaccine.
Right.
He was invested up to his eyeballs in vaccines.
And if you listen to him, wasn't it right before the pandemic kicked off?
I believe so.
So I think that the story there to some extent, and he's involved in a lot of different things,
but the story just when it came to vaccines, which I find kind of fascinating now is that
there are a lot of clips out that show him saying clearly that the COVID vaccine is incredibly
safe and incredibly effective.
And then the story is that he sold some of the shares in the companies that he owned
shares in, and then his view of the success of the COVID vaccines changed drastically.
So he played it perfectly where he was sort of a marketing guy for it, then made all the
money and then tried to join the other side when it was convenient to do that, when he
didn't have to risk any money and where he could kind of take credit for being somebody
who's more nuanced.
But he was only willing to do that when it wasn't going to cost him any money.
Right.
Yeah.
He's one of the weird ones.
Has he ever debated Bobby?
Or has he ever talked to Bobby?
Has Bobby ever spoken with him about this?
I don't believe so.
And Bobby hasn't been sued, has he?
No.
That's a great thing that Bobby said about the real Anthony Fauci when it first came
out.
He said, this is an alarming book that if you read about the financial entanglements that
have gone into our public health since the AIDS crisis, you will be shocked by it.
And if you think that it isn't true, ask yourself, why hasn't Fauci debated me on any of it?
Why doesn't Gates debate me on any of it?
Or why haven't I gotten sued?
So he said that time after time and no, nobody has sued us for any information in the book
being incorrect.
Really?
Yeah.
Are lawsuits a big thing to deal with when you're running a publishing company?
It costs a lot of money and most of the books don't have any kind of potential lawsuits
that would lead to making lots of money.
But you would think that if people really thought that they could shut Bobby down by
suing over things that were in the book, that they would have done that.
I think what they believed was that the best way to handle it would be to vilify him and
to run hit pieces and to try to make everybody in the country think that he's anti-science,
that he's crazy, that all of the bad things that they've said about him.
But it's so clear that there's been this attack on science.
And the attack isn't coming from Bobby Kennedy and the disinformation dozen.
It's coming from this fake science that's taken over the world.
That's what the real anti-science is.
It's science where you're not allowed to disagree with it because anybody knows, I mean any scientist
knows that real science has to stand up to disagreement.
That's what the scientific process is that people disagree and they fight it out to the
end.
It's like the fight club of science, that people bring their very best arguments and
their best data and they disprove somebody else.
And that's how we make progress as a species on this planet versus just saying the only
science that you can hear is the science that will make us more money.
And they are shutting down a lot of conversations, aren't they?
I don't even think they're doing debates, are they, this year, or for the next election?
For the primaries, they don't want to do it.
They don't want to do debates.
But I think that people, well, look at Biden, I mean Biden can't have a debate with anybody.
That's obvious.
Like you could pick anybody in any restaurant in the country and just bring them outside
and say, here, have a debate with Joe Biden on this.
And I think almost anybody would out-debate Joe Biden.
So think about Bobby Kennedy who's really going into the details of each issue.
I mean, I'm fascinated by his way of sort of, you know, there's so many different things
that maybe he's not an expert in.
So even as a candidate, you have to make outreach to people who are experts and to hear kind
of both sides and really think it through.
When is the last time we had a candidate doing that, you know, who was really kind of open
to any argument?
Right.
Right.
And that's the thing too with politics, right?
Like there's these presidents, they run on all these issues, but they don't really have
hands-on experience with these issues.
Yeah.
They sort of like have this, okay, we're going to run on this, this, this, and this.
These are our talking points for this.
But this guy's what, he's litigated himself many lawsuits.
Like 500 lawsuits or something like that.
Like done all the research, read all the reviews in the studies.
Like the amount of time and effort he's put into reading this stuff and writing this stuff
is like no other president has spent that much time on anything.
No.
And I mean, he's a scholar.
He's a reader.
He's a serious thinker.
And you know, when he brought each of these lawsuits, he was reading science for them.
Right.
Because you...
He had to learn it, right?
You can't, you know, go up against Monsanto and fight about glyphosate in Roundup.
I mean, that is a massive lawsuit and it's a massive issue that is poisoning people all
around the country and all around the world.
You can't go into a battle like that with a multi-billion dollar company without comprehending
the science, you know, without really being careful in your reading of it and consulting,
you know, so many different experts in it so that you can, you know, go up against the
most powerful people on the planet and actually beat them.
So he was able to win a $70 million judgment against Monsanto, which then, you know, to
some extent led to the 13,000 or so pending lawsuits that they have.
So he has...
He took part in taking down, you know, one of these most powerful companies out there.
So I think, you know, it's possible that one person can do that and that one person can
inspire millions of people to help do that so that we could then have a country where
we don't allow products to be sold or things to be injected into young children that are
not well researched and that we don't call those people anti-vaxxers.
We don't call them conspiracy theorists.
We call those people folk heroes, you know, or freedom fighters, or, you know, people
who really are working day and night, who've dedicated their lives to trying to help other
people.
So the idea that everything's sort of flipped on its head and that the people who really
want to do good things are called the villains, you know, like the victors always make the,
you know, write history.
Right, they rewrite history.
You know, right now, you know, Fauci got to write the story to some extent.
But I think that it's important not to let him go.
And it's important to keep fighting it even though the crisis period is over because
the problem and the danger is that, you know, even though he's just one person, they're
more and more people.
It's like a many-headed monster.
And there's just going to be somebody else.
And the same kinds of things are going to happen time after time after time if we don't
get to the bottom of what happened and make sure that everybody in the world knows what
happened and that it was a product of greed and corruption, not about some hero trying
to protect us from a virus.
Now running for president is not cheap.
How is he going to fund all this?
And these big pharmaceutical companies are notorious for sponsoring presidents.
And some of these, you know, some of the biggest industries in the country that are responsible
for the environment or for public health, those are sort of like the biggest proponents
for funding these campaigns.
But how is he going to do it?
Yeah.
So I think that, you know, he's going out there on all these podcasts and, you know,
he's been saying that this might be the first presidential election that's won on radio
shows and podcasts, you know, that, you know, and if you look at the actual data, so you
look at what are the main TV shows now pulling in, you know, maybe it's two or three million
viewers and that's maybe the top two or three.
But Joe Rogan is pulling in 11 million, maybe 12 million.
Tucker pulled in 120 million and the second one I think was 50 million and the third one
was something around there.
Elon put his thumb on the scale though.
Right.
Well, you know, kind of hard to tell what the numbers always mean.
Maybe they're two or three people, you know, view it at different times.
But even if you dissect that 120 million views, you know, you have to dissect it a lot of
times for it to get anywhere near as low as mainstream media is.
So when you have Biden, who isn't going on any podcast, you know, Biden might be going
on to, you know, some network TV shows and read some canned message that somebody else
wrote for, you know, 45 seconds and hope not to fall down or to misspeak and, you know,
say that, you know, Russia is our partners and we're fighting somebody else.
You know, all of these kind of misstatements that he always makes.
Right.
You know, to have a candidate who's going on a show that maybe 120 million people watch
and then asking them to help, you know, to send in $25 or $50, I think there's a good
chance that the American public is waking up to what's happened.
Like I said before, you know, that there, I think three years ago, five years ago, there
was a small fraction of the number of people in this country who really believed that it
was possible that a bunch of big companies were colluding with the government and public
health officials and, you know, other kinds of government officials and doing things that
were, that even they knew were not good for the public.
But now I think you probably have half the country thinking that.
You know, I think some Democrats think that's all Republicans and I don't think that's true
at all.
Even when Tucker was still on Fox, something like 35% of his viewers were Democrats because
there were a lot of people who would watch Tucker and they would disagree with a lot
of things that he said, but they felt sincerely that there were a lot of topics that he covered
where they couldn't get the information anywhere else.
You know, maybe they could get it on a bunch of smaller shows.
They could get it on Joe Rogan, but they couldn't get it from the newspaper that they've been
reading for the last 10 years or from the network TV show that they've been watching
for the last 10 years.
So I think that that power, the power of speaking directly to huge numbers of people in this
country is a very powerful tool and if Bobby keeps doing that and keeps talking day after
day on these really big shows, but there are so many other forces, so some of the polls
have come out and they don't even mention Bobby.
So there's the Harvard Harris poll came out, it's one of the prominent polls and they listed
something like 15 Democrats going down to 1% of the vote, including a whole list of people
who have already said they're definitely not running like Bernie Sanders and they just
left Bobby out.
So that I think is another piece of the kind of DNC kind of saying, hey, we've decided
we can call up pollsters, tell them not to include Bobby, we can call up our friend at
the New York Times and tell them to do a roundup of Democratic candidates and leave Bobby out
or say he's a crackpot or just kind of chip away at the corners of his popularity.
Right.
What are some of the other most controversial things that you've published besides some
of the stuff that Bobby's talked about with public health, right, you got Pierre Corey
on there?
Yeah, Pierre Corey's book I think is a very important piece of the puzzle because it on
the one hand seems really clear and there are a lot of peer reviewed studies saying that
Iver Mectin helps prevent COVID, helps lessen the effects of COVID and so if Pierre Corey
was allowed to speak and was allowed to show his studies and make the argument on national
television at the time that the COVID vaccines were approved, arguably they couldn't have
been because they had to get a waiver of the proper study and the only way that you can
get that kind of waiver is if you show that there's no viable alternative to this product
that you're offering.
And so the whole reason for coming out and having Dr. Fauci and so many other people go
on to a hundred different TV shows and I've seen sort of these things that people post
on various sites, Instagram though, they're somewhere where they have 20 different people
at various news stations and they're all saying almost the exact same words, you know where
it's like Iver Mectin is a horse medicine, it's only meant for horses and it can kill
you.
That's like something out of the nightmare watching that.
Yeah.
But they're all on the same screen at the same time and they're just almost the exact
same words.
Yeah.
Most of them saying the exact same words.
And so you look at that and this book shows you that that isn't true, that the truth is
that millions and millions of people have taken Iver Mectin without any side effects
over the last I believe 20 years and that it's meant for humans that they're two different
kinds.
It's actually for livestock but it was a totally fake story that was sort of sold to the entire
American public and to the world and it was a lie.
And even now nobody's come back, you know, you don't see ABC News or NBC News or the New
York Times running front page stories saying sorry, we were wrong about that.
If you had all taken this, the outcome would have been much different.
And so you look at what our outcome actually was and now it's something like 1.1 million
people are said to have died of COVID.
I mean, it's kind of hard to know whether any of those numbers mean anything.
But you know that's more than four times the number of people who died on the whole continent
of Africa.
We were giving Iver Mectin to Africa, weren't we?
Or was it like the Southern American countries?
We were basically...
No, no, no.
Africa, it's a very common drug there that's been used for the last couple of decades.
And so on the one hand, it's fascinating that we're the 1.4 billion population and countries
that are much poorer than our country that they would have something like 1.16 of the
deaths per capita.
Right.
The death per million were like extremely low compared to us.
So, you know, how is that possible?
I mean, how is it possible that we're so proud that we're looking up to this genius Dr. Fauci
who gives us results that are 1.16 of the results that they were able to achieve in
Africa?
So part of the reason might be that a large percentage of the population there was taking
Iver Mectin before COVID, during COVID, and still.
There was no country that was worse than us, death per million, I don't think.
I don't believe that there was either.
You know, it's such a weird thing, too, because if you're going to eradicate it, if you're
going to get fixed, how do you fix the problem?
Because it's human nature.
It's sort of the worst part.
What's happening with pharmaceutical companies is it's the worst part of capitalism, right?
It really is.
It's like a bastardization of capitalism.
It's where these people just, they find like, fuck taking care of our community or our country
the bigger picture, and let's just focus on driving as much profit as we possibly can.
And like, the patents are a big problem with this, right?
Like some of these medicines that were getting suppressed where the patents had expired and
there was no money.
That combined with the revolving door of the regulatory agencies and the pharmaceutical
companies, it's like, if you fix that, how do you stop it from happening again in some
other direction?
Right.
It's just, it is human nature and there's so much money moving around.
It's just like, how do you keep a check on it?
It seems so hard for me to comprehend how that would happen.
It just seems like you need better leaders.
And we just haven't been able to come up with good leaders.
And part of that might be that it started with Robert Kennedy, Bobby's father, and JFK
and so many other people getting killed during the 60s, that since then we haven't had incredibly
smart, incredibly dedicated leaders.
And then you see all of this data of senators who came into power and they had a net worth
of half a million dollars.
They were in the Senate for 30 years and now they've got a hundred and twenty million
dollar net worth.
So you see that every side of it is about money from the lobbyists to the actual politicians
that everybody's taking money.
And lobbying is a huge thing.
So one of the things, and then corporations are people so that you can have all of these
big pharmaceutical companies being found guilty of crimes.
So you have this incredible situation that I think people will just be fascinated with
in 50 years when they look back on it and they study it in law school classes where
you have crimes without criminals.
So you have some of the worst crimes in the history of mankind where nobody goes to jail,
where they're just criminal fines.
So Vioxx is said to have killed, I don't know, 50,000 to 100,000 people, maybe more.
They're all these documents showing that they knew about it, that they knew people were
getting heart attacks, that they got letters from researchers and scientists who worked
for Merck at the time and they just didn't do anything because they had no personal liability.
There was a lot of money in it.
They didn't have another drug to take its place.
They were worried that the share price was going to plummet.
So they just let these people die.
So when you talk about somebody lets 50,000 people die in a year, maybe, when they know
what's happening and they know that they can stop it.
And then the only consequence is that there's a criminal fine, which becomes almost like
a cost of doing business.
Right.
But it seems like the only people who would want to get into politics are the worst people.
The people that are even in Wall Street and finance and any sort of politician is just
run up with these people who have no talent in anything else other than ass kissing and
ladder climbing.
Right.
It's this societal ladder climbing game of making more money and those people are not
the people that you want to run the country.
You want people that actually care.
You want people that have the right moral compass and those kind of people have no interest
in politics.
Right.
And that's a big part of the problem.
But I think people need to be inspired and they need to see a leader who's different.
And when they do, then I think when John F. Kennedy was president, I think there were
a lot of children thinking, I want to go into politics.
I want to do something good.
He might be the last guy, John F. Kennedy, he might be like the last good human being.
That they were really thinking, not just in the United States, but all around the world.
It's true and it's covered in this book that there really were, like I said before, people
in Russia and in Africa and all around the world putting up posters of John F. Kennedy.
More streets named after him than any other president.
Because they really believed that here was a leader who wanted to change the world and
make it better, who wanted world peace so that people didn't have to worry about their
whole country being blown up.
One thing that Bobby said that I think is important for people to hear about is that
one of the things that they might come after him with is say, well, if you're going to reform
all of the agencies of government and if you're going to make it harder for big companies
to kind of squeeze more money out of the population and out of the world, isn't that going to
lead to some kind of economic crisis?
Right.
The idea though is, and he said this many times, is that corruption, destroying the
environment, all of these kinds of things that he's fighting are actually anti-capitalist.
These are not things that are good for real capitalism.
These are things that are good for fascism.
These are things that are good for a handful of billionaires running a handful of incredibly
powerful companies that want to tell the government what to do, that want to tell every person
in the world what to do, what to think, what to put into their bodies.
So that isn't capitalism.
Capitalism is the 53% of the people in this country who don't have $1,000 because the
fascists have destroyed capitalism because having a good environment, having healthy
people, having small businesses that were destroyed during COVID, that builds capitalism.
That's the real capitalism.
Fascism is the destruction of all of those companies and the building of bigger and bigger
companies that are just make it impossible for innovation, for progress, for all the
kinds of things or to build a small business, all of the kinds of things that are the good
sides of real capitalism.
Now he's a big proponent of nuclear energy too, right?
No, he seems to have mixed feelings there.
Oh, he's anti-nuclear.
He says nuclear is bad, my bad.
But my guess is there, so what you get with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is you get a really
sincere thinker.
So his history with sort of Three Mile Island and the New York area where nuclear power
plants have a bad history.
So the idea then is the possibility that nuclear power, which is really potentially beneficial
to the whole world, the idea is can you make it safe?
And so if there was ever anybody who would be potentially convinced of something where
they would have a view, like John F. Kennedy started out as kind of like a cold warrior.
But he was convinced that peace was possible.
So he had a real transformation over a relatively short period.
And I think that if there's any candidate who is open to ideas, it's Bobby Kennedy.
And if you could convince him, if you could have a room full of scientists who would show
studies that prove that nuclear power can be safer than it's been in the past, then
I think he would be all for it.
So I think that's what you get.
And many times people look at politicians and they find one thing that they don't like.
And then they think, oh, I don't like this person.
So the idea is that you're never going to have a politician who you like on everything.
What you really want to know with a politician and with Bobby, you get this in spades is
that you can trust him, is that you can trust this person to do the right thing, to not
be corruptible, to not be bribeable.
And if there's anybody who's not corruptible and not bribeable in any sense, it's Bobby
Kennedy, undoubtedly.
And I think he talks openly, too, about when it comes to energy stuff.
He says he hasn't read all the papers in the studies when it comes to some of the public
health stuff.
Like, he's a bona fide expert when it comes to that stuff, legitimately.
But when it comes to some of these other stuff, at least he openly admits that, look, I'm
not an expert on this.
This is what I do know.
I can easily have my mind changed with better information or better facts.
But to go back to the transgender question, you know, he's made some statements there
and I could imagine that he would make more.
So one of the ones that he made was that he didn't think that transgender men ought to
be allowed to compete in women's sports.
Oh, he did say that, okay.
And he said that because he said that he believes that that's an assault on feminism, that sort
of like, there's been this progress that's been made in sports where women have really
made these great breakthroughs and where the sports professionally are really viable.
And you know, they're well watched.
They're all these new superstars in all these different areas, you know, all of the various
sports.
And you know, if you allow transgender men to come and play all of those sports, that's
actually anti-feminist, that you would then have all of the stars be essentially men.
And so I don't think that that's in any way transphobic.
I mean, if there's going to be, you know, so let's just say that the world right now
is right and there's this just a huge number of people born into the wrong body.
I don't believe that that's true, but let's just say that that's true.
If it's a significant part of the population, we can have a third kind of sports.
So we can have men's sports, we can have, you know, sports for women, and then we can
have trans sports.
But to do it the way we've been doing it now, I don't think benefits anybody.
It isn't fair.
It's not progress.
And Bobby Kennedy has said very clearly that he's not for it.
Yeah.
It makes me more, the more I see about this stuff, it makes me feel more and more like
we're just, we're in living in some sort of video game.
This whole transgender, you see someone was on the White House lawn yesterday with a trans
man, I think, with his top off and had like legitimate tits.
Yeah.
That's just crazy stuff.
It's like we're living in a simulation, man.
But it's just an insult to the country, really.
But then, you know, if you take a step back and you see, well, what's the big product
that goes along with this?
And the big product is a pharmaceutical product called a puberty blocker.
And so, you know, it looks like we're going to get to a point if we don't change course
where there are going to be millions of children in this country taking puberty blockers.
And these are untested drugs.
Nobody has any clue what happens 30 years down the road.
I mean, these are the kinds of decisions that can impact the future of mankind.
Right.
This is late stage empire shit.
Like this is very scary.
But this is, you know, the carelessness and the ruthlessness of it and the desire for
just another pharmaceutical product that you can sell to millions of people at a very high
price.
So, you know, and that brings me to something like GMOs where it's the same sort of thing
where I don't think anybody should be pro GMO or anti GMO.
What's a lot like a vaccine is that you need to know the details and you need to do the
research.
But when you're talking, you know, about having a GMO salmon or, you know, GMO mosquitoes
or, you know, vaccinating bumblebees, there was a story about that in the New York Times
I think two weeks ago.
Vaccinating bumblebees?
I don't even know how you would do that.
But that was the story.
For real?
For real.
Yeah.
So, you know, when you're talking about doing these kinds of things of introducing GMO species
or feeding the entire planet GMO foods or vaccinating people with, you know, genetic products,
you know, you're really getting to a point where you're screwing around with the future
of mankind recklessly.
Yeah.
And, you know, that I think is not something that, you know, free people in a democracy
would allow.
So, people who haven't been lied to or fooled or censored or, you know, subjected to, you
know, the most powerful propaganda that, you know, I've said before and I really think
it's true that the kind of censorship and propaganda tools that these powerful forces
have would be the envy of any dictator in history, you know, that they can just get
to everybody.
They can blanket people with a message.
They can, you know, like we said before, they can have a hundred newscasters on a hundred
different shows on the same day, parroting all the same food, you know, all of the same
statements, all of the same claims.
Right.
And that stuff, you know, gets through to people's brains and it does brainwash people.
But go to the top of this again, Michael, what is the title?
USDA approves first vaccine for honeybees, Dalin animal health's vaccine for American
foul brood, an aggressive bacterial disease is the first of any insect in the United States.
Company in Georgia has received conditional approval from the U.S. Department of Agriculture
for the first vaccine for honeybees.
A move scientists say could help pave the way for controlling a range of viruses and
pests that have disseminated the global population.
It is the first vaccine approved for any insect in the United States.
What?
Yeah.
So I think that, you know, it's just another product that they're selling.
And you know, I think that any sincere person who looks at these kinds of things and who
knows what's been happening in the last 20 years in this country is going to look at
that and say, we should slow down.
We should do more research because the impact of getting it wrong is so severe.
And it's the same thing with the COVID vaccine that the impact of getting it wrong, you
know, is unimaginable, something that you would put into the bodies of 7 billion people.
So I think that that's a lot of the reason why we need Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to be president
because he recognizes that we're at this turning point in history.
And I don't think that's about trying to make people afraid.
But I think it's about being honest.
Is that you just have stories like this every day and you don't know whether to believe
that the people who are doing this kind of thing, you know, what their motivation is.
Is it just to have another product to sell?
Is it just sort of interesting to try it?
You know, are GMO salmon a good idea or a bad idea?
You know, the company that makes them wants to get them to market as quickly as possible.
So I do think that we need some regulation in this country that's not owned, funded, you
know, by the people who are going to make money off their decisions.
And that's what I think you would get with Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
But you would also get this new group of scientists who are, you know, some of them have written
books for me.
But they're very serious people who, like Bobby, have taken a lot of risks to say what
they believe is true.
And I mean, Dr. Pierre Corey is one of them that, you know, he could have had a much easier
life.
He didn't have to take this road.
There was no money in it for him.
There was no benefit for him, you know, so he didn't have to fight the disinformation
campaigns that were being waged where, you know, that we described before, you know,
that people were saying that I've remept in or any of the similar things that were available
at the time.
He could have just sort of told the line and made a lot more money, probably had more friends,
more connections, and a brighter future.
You know, but there are a lot of people who have come out during this period and they're
not willing to live that kind of life.
And so I think people like Pierre Corey, people like Dr. Peter McCullough, people like Dr.
Robert Malone, you know, there's so many of these people out there who risked everything,
who would make, you know, even, you know, somebody who I really like is Dr. Joe Lattapo,
who is the Surgeon General of Florida.
Oh, yeah.
And he's just such a sincere guy who does real research and just sort of follows it
where it goes.
And you know, so if people like that group were running the CDC and the NIH and all of
the different, you know, medical health divisions, I think that would go a long way to turning
things, you know, to a point where the direction could be permanently changed.
Not that it gets perfect right away, but that you get a whole bunch of powerful people who
feel that it's their mission in life to end corruption.
So you need a leader who's taken the time to get to know all of those people.
And Bobby knows all of those people well and has spent the time getting to know which
of those people are really trustworthy.
So the question is, you know, it's easy to talk about, you know, you can look at Ed Dowd's
book, Cause Unknown, which is about the other side of whether vaccines worked, you know,
whether they prevented COVID, whether they prevented the transmission of COVID, you know,
which is pretty clear, you know, that they haven't, the other side of it is that they've
led to these, you know, massive heart attacks by, you know, thousands and thousands of young
people who were at no risk from COVID, you know, who were at statistically zero risk.
And you know, one of the things that this book does is it shows the actual headlines
and the backstories of hundreds of, of young, healthy kids, mostly athletes who died suddenly
on the field, many of them actually on the field, people who had never had any health
problems before.
And you know, you kind of look at that and you say, you know, we've had these people
who have lied to us and the, you know, they sold us a product.
They gutted the middle class, they ruined businesses, they shut down schools.
I mean, we don't even know what's going to happen with, with a whole generation of children
who missed a couple of years of, of school.
So we have all of these problems that are sort of the side effects of, of big lies.
And so the question is, you know, what kind of truth and reconciliation can we have to
set the country straight and to get in a direction that, that is more hopeful, you know, where,
where we really would have a sense that our leaders care about us, that our doctors and
our scientists and our pharmaceutical companies are actually trying to make us healthier or,
you know, trying to make people live longer.
And, you know, we're, we're far from that now.
But I, but I think that we're closer actually than we were before COVID.
You know, Bobby Kennedy is kind of the leader of a rebellion.
And it's a rebellion that's really broad based where people are just sort of sick and tired
of what they've seen.
And they're just not going to stand for it anymore.
Right.
And they're, and they're ready to join something and to, to fight against what they see.
They don't quite know how to do it yet.
But I think that they're primed to sort of say the world is going in the wrong direction
and that we need a leader who's going to turn that around and that we need a broad based
sort of group of people who are willing to stand up and fight.
And, and that's what they get from alternative media, from the something like 17,000 doctors
who refuse to do things the way Dr. Fauci wanted them done.
Leaders like Bobby Kennedy, you know, shows like this show, you know, people who are willing
to take some personal risk and really try to turn things around.
Well, I appreciate you doing this, man.
Where can, so you said over a million books sold in the last, what, two years?
It's just been published?
Yeah.
It's fucking incredible.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
Where can people find all these books that you're publishing?
Yeah.
So the company name is skyhorsepublishing.com.
My Instagram is Tony Lyons is uncertain, which is sort of like, you know, proved to me what
the truth is, don't force me to do anything.
And let me think where else people can, can find it.
Oh, right.
So for Bobby Kennedy's campaign, you know, I would really encourage people to go to the
Kennedy campaign website and to donate money.
And then I'm part of a super PAC, which is called AmericanValues2024.org.
What's a super PAC?
I heard the term, I kind of loosely know what it is.
Yeah.
So a super PAC.
If you want to donate money to Robert F. Kennedy Jr.'s campaign, the most you can donate in
total is $6,600.
So $3,300 for the primary and then $3,300 more after that, though you can do it all at
once.
Okay.
So, but if you want to donate much more money and, you know, help him become president,
you can donate the money to a super PAC.
And so if you donate money to AmericanValues2024.org, we then use that money to do, you know, anything
we can do to get the word out and to amplify Bobby Kennedy's message.
So for example, if he's on 20 different podcasts, we would take clips of those podcasts and create
talking points from them, get influencers to kind of go out and discuss those talking
points, send out emails, send out text messages.
So those are the kinds of things that all politicians do.
And they're usually really, really well-funded super PACs.
And part of the reason that they're so well-funded is that the politicians are corrupt.
So it becomes kind of...
What does that stand for?
PAC.
Super PAC.
Political Action Committee.
Political Action Committee.
Okay.
So...
So a super political action committee.
Right.
So there's no limit on the amount of money that you can donate.
Okay.
So if you're a pharmaceutical company and you know that you have a candidate who's gonna
kind of give you immunity from prosecution for the products that you create or is gonna
speed them through the process, you think really good idea to put as much money as possible
into this super PAC to help that politician get elected.
But it's more like lobbying.
Right.
Exactly.
In that case, it's sort of like you're almost putting it on your P&L as sort of like, we're
gonna spend $10 million to get these three people elected to Congress because then we're
gonna have enough votes to get something passed that's gonna make us $50 million.
You know what I mean?
So that's the kind of thinking.
And that's the kind of corruption that we have to get rid of in this country because
we don't want politicians who are put into power for the sole purpose of helping big
companies make more money.
At our expense.
Well, I appreciate everything you're doing.
Some of the most fascinating books from Robert Kennedy to John Kariaku, I'm a big fan of
all of them.
I'll make sure I link everything below.
That's great.
And thanks again.
Thanks again for having me.
