Happy Halloween, Matt Cox. Okay. Happy Halloween. It's not Halloween. Tomorrow's Halloween or
Sunday's Halloween. We're almost to Halloween. Couple days, yeah. Okay. You anything special
for Halloween? I have to go to my, I think I'm going to a Halloween party with my ex-wife.
I think she's having a Halloween party. I don't know. What are you going to be for Halloween?
I was thinking about printing out, so I talked to Juan about this. Thought about printing it.
What's so funny? Nothing. No, I just have like a million ideas. I got a million ideas too about
you for Halloween. Keep going. Sorry to interrupt. See, I was thinking about printing out my wanted
posters and putting them out and then basically have a, just have an ID that says, you know,
my name's Gary Sullivan. And then people would say very original Gary Sullivan. That is a good
idea. See if people can put it together. Yeah. I like that. You can be an FBI agent or a secret
service agent. I guess that's possible. That's possible. That's good. What about you? What are
you going to be for Halloween? Tato? Hi, Rock. I mean, no plans for a costume. Probably just
wing it last minute if we do something. Just wing it last minute. We got, we got a Thursday night
football game going on because Shane is a degenerate gambler and he likes to bet on all
the games with my bookie.ag. And he's got a lot of, how much money got riding on this game with
Packers versus the Cardinals? Just a couple hundred. Just a couple hundred. That's it. He's a high
roller. Small roller in the bet world. Do you ever bet on sports, Matt? No. I got my fairy wings on.
I see that. I can only imagine what people are going to say in the comments. In memory of Shane
fucking Lee.com. That's right. Rest in peace. Who? Shane Lee. The guy from the Deccan show. He's
a star. Oh yeah. He's a star of our documentary. What, he died? How did he die? He had cancer.
I think pancreatic cancer. Oh man, that's horrible. Yeah, it sucks. How long did that take? He had a
good life though. He probably had it for a long time. Man, one day he just went to sleep, didn't
wake up. Yeah. You know, it was never really in top shape health or anything anyway. I'm sure if
you've seen any of the videos. Yeah, I've seen a few of the videos. None of those guys look good.
They're all rough. They're rough. How was your trip to while you just got back from Ohio like this
morning? Yeah, yeah. Really, the plane landed at like 1240. I didn't get home until like 130
really in the morning. What were you doing there? Another title lock? Yeah, it was a title lock
commercial. And so it was a title lock commercial. And we also shot a podcast for an NFT that I'm
doing with Investment Joy. What is that face? I'm listening. What the fuck do you mean? You're
looking at me like, yeah, I did an NFT for Investment Joy and he's going to auction it off
the guy's name is Brandon. So we did a video on that. And it's funny because I actually painted
the painting, right? And then they have it digitized. And then they sell like 1700 tokens. But he
actually took the real painting and put it behind bulletproof glass. And he's got to have a live
feed on Twitch 24 hours a day. So you can always look at the real painting. He's actually got some
good ideas. Like, I mean, it's pretty funny. That's funny. It's pretty interesting. So yeah,
so we did that. And then I did the home lock, home lifelock. We did kind of like a commercial,
but it was real, you know, his stuff is real candid, you know what I'm saying? It's real like
just like, let's go walk in here and talk to this person. Was it the same Senator or whatever
that you did with you did the commercial? No, no, no, no, no, that's that's Newt Gingrich.
This is the guy that runs Investment Joy. Oh, I thought you were talking about title lock.
Yeah, for okay, the guy that runs Investment Joy, we did a we did we're doing a whole podcast on
title fraud. So we did one for the NFTs and one for title fraud. Okay, got it. So that,
you know, and they're sponsoring it, obviously. Okay. And so they paid for that,
fly me up there, keep staying a Airbnb for a couple days and flew me back. Oh, cool.
And but when this is the fun part, and this is what Danny wants to hear because this is a good
part is that when I went into when I was actually when I was changing planes in in Charlotte,
I was walking down the aisle and I get this sometimes where people will look at me and it's
like it's not like it's weird. Like it's like they're admiring that hairline. So they'll look at me.
I'm just going to ignore this shit. I'm going to talk to you. So they'll look at me like this.
And I'm thinking to myself like, that's weird. Like, and they don't say anything, but or you can
see him double take and take a look and take a look like, I don't know. Okay. But this guy,
I was walking and he did that. I'm walking down the aisle. And he's looking at me. And also,
he kind of looks at me and look at me. I get over there. I'm looking at him. And then I go to sit
out and before I even sit down, he goes, Hey, you're, you're Cox, right? You're that guy Cox.
You're Matt Cox. And I went, yeah, what's up? And he goes, Yeah, bro. He said, I've seen you on
concrete. Yeah, I see you on concrete. He said, Yeah, I've watched all your stuff, bro. You're,
you got an amazing story. You got an amazing story. And I was like, so then everybody,
all the other passengers, like just around us kind of turn around and start looking at me.
And I'm thinking, this is, this is really weird. It's crazy. Yeah. So I sit down and he said,
Yeah, man. Hey, yeah. So you're, you're, you're there with a, I've seen you with Danny and with
the other guy, a hat rack. And I went, I started laughing. And I said, No, he didn't. Yeah, I know
you. He, oh wait, he didn't say hat rack right away. He said, and Danny's little buddy, buddy.
And I realized now what he's talking about. He was his little buddy. I go, Who's that?
And he goes, his little buddy's got glasses. Like he, he, he wears glasses. And I went,
he's a little, and he goes, Yeah, yeah. And I went, well, there's another guy hat rack.
He was, yeah, hat rack. And I went, no, no, no, hat rack's not little. He's like six foot six,
or they're like six, five or something. Six, four is huge. I'm six, three, six, three. I said,
he's huge. And like that. And he looked at me as, no, bro, this guy's short. This guy's short. And I
went, nah, man. I said, he is not. He goes, he's shorter than you. He's about your height that I
went. It's bad posture. Yeah. I said, no, no. He was, no. I said, and I go, hold on. I go, look,
Danny's even tall. Danny's like five, 10. So I pull out my phone. I show him you. And he goes,
Yeah, that's him. He goes, he's tall. I go, yeah. And he said, Oh man, I, I've,
yeah, I didn't realize he was so tall. Just a little buddy. He's got, even right now, you're
like way down. Yeah, you want to know why he's got, I got the fucking church's thrift store chair.
You guys got $200 chairs. I get this thrift store chair that's six inches lower than everybody.
These are $900 chairs. Well, get another one. My chair costs a three. There's one right there
you can use if you want it. Yeah, bro. People think you're like a midget. Yeah. He's got terrible
posture. Honestly, but if I sit in that, then I'm like up here. Oh, this thing is adjustable.
Yeah. It goes up and down. I don't like that chair. It doesn't have any armrests. Yeah.
That's funny. The chairs are massive. Yeah. Okay. Little buddy. So that happened. Little buddy.
That's fucked up. Yeah. This cocksucker. That's a great story. I got to Ohio to Columbus
and it's like 48 degrees. Yeah. And I brought one long sleeve shirt. Like I didn't even,
it didn't even dawn on me. No. Been in Florida too long. Yeah. I got off and I was like, oh.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh, what's happening? Oh, I fucked up. Yeah. Or something about the cold weather.
It just like super, it gives you energy. It gives you more energy than like this slow,
this like your blood's probably rushing to stay warm. Yeah. Your blood's, what? Yes. No,
it makes your blood thicker, I guess, though. Doesn't it? The cold weather? Oh, I'm not sure,
man. Probably. I don't know about that. I think it's like it's thicker. Cold weather probably
makes your blood thicker. The hot humid weather probably makes your blood thinner.
That's the hell of an theory. Can you Google that, Aiden? I bet you though,
but when I'm in cold weather like that, I have a more energy. I feel like this is the cold.
Energizes me. That's why I jump in my cold pool every morning. I jump in my cold pool
and I feel like I'm ready to roll. Cold. Fires me up for the day. It's like 70.
Yeah, like they chill it. It's like 70. It's cold. 75 degrees. It's like it's a cold pool.
Yeah. That's not cold. The water time's probably about 70 right now.
All right. Great story. Great story. Great story. I thought it was funny. Did they pay you good?
What? Listen, bro, what are you doing talking about money? I'm not asking you the dollar,
man. Do they pay me good? I mean, they do okay.
Not enough. It's never enough, right? It's never enough. It's never enough. It's okay.
They do all right. Yeah. They do all right. So, yeah, I'm supposed to go,
November 3rd, I'm supposed to go to, where am I supposed to go? Oh, I'm supposed to go to
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and shoot another commercial for a home title. Really? You're
like the face of home title lock. I don't know what's happening. I mean, they...
Are they a big company? Yeah. I think they're, are they the biggest one or the second biggest
monitoring service for title? Yeah, it's big. That's incredible. Shane had an idea for you
the other day, a title of your podcast. You should call it the Matt Cox broadcast.
That's a great idea. It's catchy, man. I thought it was pretty good.
I mean, if it was all fraud, but it's not. Like, I interview other people.
Yeah, but you are fraud. Yeah, you're the fraud, man.
That's what you're known for. Like, you bring in the audience, you know what I mean? People come for you.
Like it's the Joe Rogan podcast. Right. You're the America's favorite fraudster.
You could be the next Joe Rogan. What's wrong with you? What are you doing?
What do you mean? Yes, I'm not going to be the next Joe Rogan.
Danny believes it. I'm the Joe Rogan of Florida.
Yeah, that's true. I'll bet you some people have said that.
They do. There are multiple comments that say that.
I'm just leaning into it. Yeah, yeah. So, yeah.
Anyways, great podcast.
Thanks for the coffee. Thanks for tuning in, everyone.
So, I'm thinking. So, here's what I'm actually thinking. I'm doing. I've already started the
channel. I'm going to do it. You want to talk about that? What? The channel?
I'm going to start. So, I like soft white underbelly. Oh, Mark Lada. Yeah, he's got a sick channel.
Right. I like his channel, but he has an issue with monotone.
Monotone. Yeah, because he interviews drug addicts, hookers, gang members, pimps.
Yeah. So, you end up with fraudsters. Anybody want one of these? No.
You end up with these people talking about heroin and shooting up.
They don't pay you off that? Well, even if he's monetized, but how much monetization
are they going to give him? Like $1, like $1. What's his RPM going to be?
$1, $1.50. He's saying it's almost nothing. He says that. Why because of the content?
Yeah, they censor it or they demonetize it. McDonald's doesn't want to run their commercial
on a heroin addict prostitute who's now homeless. Why?
Because it's not, it doesn't. They probably love McDonald's. They probably do.
I shouldn't say McDonald's than most people. That was my fault for using McDonald's.
That was my fault. So, let's say Ford Motor. I thought that was a good place for McDonald's.
Let's say Ford Motor car. Ford Motor or Tesla or whatever, somebody who's like...
Yeah, I get it. I get it, I guess.
But I talked to him and he said that he's like, yeah, but like if I put up like a
prostitute or a pretty girl or something like that, he said those videos take off also.
But he's still, his channel overall, it's not really monetized well. So, I remember thinking,
well, why don't you stop interviewing all these homeless people? But he's like, no,
they have a story to be told and it's important. And so, he's more on a mission.
And I get that, you know, because, you know what I'm saying? Like, you need those guys.
He's an artist. It's an art project.
Absolutely. He's passionate about it. Like, I'm not going to do it. But if that's what
you want to do, you know, and I think that's important, I think that's great and it's great
and he's doing it perfect. So, what I thought about, but I like the setup. The person's on the
stool, the backdrop, it's very simplistic. You take some photographs of them, the photographs come
and go throughout the whole thing. And it's just them talking. Like, you have to just kind of
prompt them every once in a while to tell their story. And he doesn't make them go long. Like,
he doesn't like, he doesn't dig in. Like, some girl will get, or somebody will get on and
talk for 15 minutes. Somebody else will talk for two hours. So, you know, anyway.
So, I thought that would be great if you just use like dancers. So, strippers.
Strippers?
Yeah, strippers, dancers. I don't want to say strippers.
I'm trying to make sure I know what type of dancers.
Yeah, yeah. Exotic, exotic dancers. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Strippers. Right. Do you call them strippers?
No. Okay. So, strippers, whatever. So, if you were to go and do that and have
the girl come, she works at Mon's Venus or she works at, is Mon's Venus still around?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Okay. So, well, 2001's like gone, right? No.
No. Is there? Still popping.
Wow. All right. So, Scarlet's or the Dollhouse or whatever these, you have the girl come in,
she sits down. 24 carat. It's a good one.
I'm not sure if they're there anymore. Whatever. Whatever.
The strip clubs on US 19 are the best.
If dirty is the best. Are they? Yeah.
Yeah. So, you have the girl come in, she sits down, she talks for 20 minutes. Maybe she comes in
in blue jeans and a t-shirt, she talks for 10 minutes, whatever. That's it. That's her whole
story. She leaves, maybe another girl comes in, she's completely dolled up and she talks for
two hours and it's an absolute heartbreaker and she's telling about tragedies and whatever,
but I dated a chick for about almost five years and she, for three years, she stripped at Scarlet's
and this is a cliche, but she was in college and she ended up getting a degree in finance
while stripping at Scarlet's. So, she would come home and say, man, listen, I met this chick today
and this happened and this and she would just tell me these different stories. I was like,
really? And she was like, yeah, there was a girl that lived down here and flew to New York and would
fly up there for three days, stay in her friend's spare room, fly back and she's like,
she's making like a hundred and something thousand dollars a year. She can't live in New
York for that, but she can live like a king down here and that was like 20 years ago.
So, you know, she would tell me about these girls and I thought, you know, those are,
that would be a good subject matter and nobody's doing that. And if you did it well and it was
artistic and you weren't like a complete, you know, scumbag about the whole thing, then,
you know, I think that that's a channel that might take off. So, I started a channel.
I need to get it monetized. I need a thousand subscribers. Oh, here we go. I need a thousand,
I need a thousand. Is he flipping the thing? No, no, it's on you. Trust me. Okay. So, I need a
thousand subscribers and in about a couple of weeks from now, I'm going to start interviewing the
girls, but I need, if anybody out there knows any girls that are dancers that would be interested
in telling their story, much like, kind of like soft white underbelly, only it's a bad, you know,
it's a bad example because if you go there, you're watching drug addicts, but it's the same basic
setup. I mean, I can't do the exact same setup. I mean, Mark's amazing. Strippers and porn stars
are some of the most interesting people in the world that I've ever met. They got stories. They
got stories, but they usually come from nothing. You know what I mean? They come from broken homes
with abuse and that kind of stuff. So, they have to figure their, they have to dig, you know, climb
their way out of a hole. So, those people seem to have, I mean, in my experience, those people,
those girls seem to have the most character, the most interesting stories, and they seem to be,
they seem to be like overall more interesting. Bro, they've been through some shit. That's the
whole thing. The coolest people. Like, listen, the guy that was born into an upper middle class
family played, you know, played on the T-ball league and softball and ended up, you know,
graduating high school and married his college sweetheart and graduated and went to work as a
CPA and had 2.2 kids and, you know, like, that guy is not that interesting. You know, no offense,
but the guy who came from nothing and went through hell and ended up going to jail and ended
up getting, you know, whatever, a couple DUIs and he's had 2 wives and he's had, like, that guy's
got a story. You know, the people that have been through hell and back, those are the guys that
have great stories. Or girls. Or women. Or, I'm sorry, or women. I was just thinking, can you play
this? Like, you can play this and you're not going to get a copyright thing? We're not showing the
TV. But yeah, we will get a copyright if he shows that TV, but we're not going to show that TV.
We're showing you. Okay. So, yeah, so I think those chicks, look, listen, some of those girls
are going to be like, look, I was born, you know, middle class and everything went well and I had
a friend that talked me into doing this and I make great money and I'm saving the money and I'm
banking and that's it. So that's fine. Another girl's going to be like, listen, when I was 13 years
old, my mother who's a heroin addict, her boyfriend started molesting me and after 17,
when I turned 17, I left the house and I went, you know, they're going to have like, you know,
I joined the military and I draw after two years I got out and I like, they're going to,
those chicks are going to be like, that's amazing. Like, it's just amazing. Yeah.
Anyway, I think that'd be a super cool channel and I think if you just did that, and here's what
I think too. I think here's my idea. They come in, they do whatever, 45 minutes, they tell their
story. Okay, they leave. You put the whole thing together. I'm going to photograph them a bunch
of times. Just like Mark. Just like Mark. Oh, listen, I'm, I'm total rip off. You should,
you should paint them instead of photograph them. You should paint them. That's what I need more
work. Like Rose and the Titanic. I should paint them. Yeah, because I can whip out a painting
in like 20 minutes. Like that's no big deal. So anyway, back to reality. I'm going to take some
photos. You know, like the people do the caricatures at the fair. I'm going to put together the whole
thing, right? Put together the whole thing. Once it's done and you're ready and it's uploaded,
I'm going to take a QR code, put it on a like 500 business cards with the girl's name,
and give it to the chick so she can pass it out. It's a bar code. So she's got 500 of them. She
can give them to a client. She can give to whoever she wants. You can go and see my, my bio. Plus
the other thing is in the description, I'll put any social links that they want. So only fans.
Yeah, they're only fans. They're Instagram, they're Facebook, whatever they want. So
that to me could lead to something for them. So there's a huge benefit for them.
Sorry, go ahead. I just met this chick the other day. She's, she's 24 years old.
Does your mom know that? I mean, does your wife know this? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. She's,
she's dating a friend of mine. She's 24 years old. She's dating it. You're like 40. She's dating.
She's dating a friend of mine. When I, when you do it, when I do it, it's upsetting.
Wait, what? And when I interrupt you, it's upsetting. Oh, no, I'm not upset.
You're supposed to interrupt. I'm not allowed to interrupt, but she's 23. She's got a 24.
Oh no, that's what I meant. 24. Same thing. She's got to only fans. She's got, you know,
this other thing set up where people can call her and like talk to her and she like has phone
sex with them. But it's not really her. If there's a call center in Mexico where these
bitches sit there and they pretend to be her and they take a cut, take a fee and a fat Mexican chick.
Yeah. Right. She's like, hey, baby. It's me, Gloria. And she's making like $60,000 a month.
Oh my God. You didn't have her on your, on your thing. I know. You got to have her. Right.
Yeah. Nice. 23 or 24 years old. Fucking insane. That's nuts.
Unreal. But yeah, there's that thing about, about those girls like strip, like strippers or
especially porn stars too, because they come from those really shitty places, right? Where
they're, they're in a spot where they're really young and they need to figure out, figure a,
find a way out. Yeah. So when you're that young, when you're a kid, and especially if you're a
female and you're young and you're not a lot of choice, you're attractive, what's the most
obvious way to make money? Prostitution, stripping, porn, like sex is the obvious, the most obvious
way, especially if you can sell your body. Like the most obvious way is like a job at McDonald's.
But no, that's not going to, right. I was going to say, but let's face it. Right. But no, but let's
face it. You're not going to go get a job at McDonald's and be able to pay your bills. So that,
so people like, oh, she could get a real job. She's 17 or 18 years old. She probably, maybe,
maybe she has a high school diploma. Maybe she doesn't. Right. She's going to get a job working
at either fast food or in retail. And the fact is you cannot survive on that. No. So what is her
second option, of course, is yeah, if you're living with some abusive uncle and you need to get out,
you need to find a place to rent, you need to get your own car, you do all the stuff. The most
obvious thing, if I'm, if I'm a young, whatever, in my late teens or early twenties girl who's in
that situation, I'm going to go fucking be a stripper or I'm going to go do porn. I mean,
those girls are the one and a lot of those girls make a shitload of money doing that. A lot of
them get fucking, they turn into like social media celebrities. Like that girl, Lana Rhodes,
she's a fucking, a lot of them, tens of millions of dollars. A lot of them end up crashing too.
You know what I'm saying? Like, like, what, like, they don't know how to manage the money.
They end up getting with some guy who basically takes advantage of them. They don't know how to
invest the money. They work for 10 years. They still have nothing. They don't understand why
they're making $70,000 a year. And they don't understand. I understand. I have no money. My
bills are always late. My, well, your boyfriend doesn't have a job. You know, you're, you're,
he's blowing all your money. You're on hooked on drugs. Like, where's my money going? We'll,
you know, they don't understand. So I get it. You know, it's disappointing about this whole
conversation. I really, really was talking to a buddy of mine. And I said, yeah, I'm going to go,
I'm going to pitch the idea to Danny and hat rack. And I said, and I said, I'm telling you right
now, I said, they're going to be total jerks about it. Like they're going to be just, they're
going to be like that, either that stupid, or they're going to say like, who wants nobody wants
to this or that or, oh, you, oh, yeah. They're going to be all like weirdos. Why does that upset
you? I, it, why is it upset? It upsets me because that's what I was expecting. Like this isn't what
I expected. I expect you to be more of a jerk about it. Why would I be a jerk about it? I don't
know. You typically are. It's just, I just assume you'll usually have some kind of a, a childish,
you know, 14 year old response to something like this. And instead you're actually being
sure about it. Now, now I'm questioning it.
So yeah, no, I think it's a good, I think that's a good idea. I like it. Yeah. You got to,
you got to paint it right. That's all. I got it. I already named it. I already got the channel.
What's it called? It's called pink crush. And I put a little video. I put a video up
during our logo. I got to know, I can get Luke to make you a logo. No, you can't.
So wrong. Have you talked to Luke? I haven't talked to Luke ever since that day. I haven't
even talked about it on this podcast at all either. It's so upsetting. I know it's sad.
Aiden was here. That was the last time Aiden ran the podcast. Aiden was sitting right there when
that whole thing went down. This is going to be a much, much less interesting podcast. Let's put
it that way. So yeah, uh, yeah, I do. I have, I already, I got the channel and I put up a little
video. I'm going to reshoot it tomorrow because it's really kind of cruddy. As a matter of fact,
I just made the channel today and it's called pink crush. And I used the little, the symbol for
the female symbol when it's pink. Well, it's black on a pink background. Is it pink on a black
background? I don't know. But you know, I did it and like you can go there, but when I punch in
YouTube, punch it into YouTube, it, it wouldn't. Are you on TikTok yet? You need like a neon light
sign logo or something. Like all the strips. Well, this is actually kind of, yeah. I mean,
I like, I'm, I'm trying to do it. You need like a strip club sign. Pink crush. Yeah, it does come
off. It doesn't come off. This is a brand new channel though. They don't show up. They don't
start propagating and search until you have the channel for like at least a month, right? Are you
serious? I'm pretty sure. Oh, that sucks. Because I mean, I've got to, they want to know that you're
serious about your YouTube channel before they start, you know, giving you the search, but I
punch in the exact name. It doesn't matter. Sometimes you know, as well as I do, we've had
episodes that we've done and you can search for the exact title of our podcast and they don't
even show up on YouTube. Okay. YouTube controls that shit. Oh, I sent it to you. Didn't I? They
got to lock. They got to lock down tight. Yeah, bro. I sent this to you. Look at Kyler Murray.
That's a little guy. Kyler Murray. He's like your height. He's like your height. No, he's a little
probably taller than you. No, that's not possible. Okay. So yeah, I got, I got my little channel.
I got my thing right here. There that's, let me see it. Let me see it. Pink crush. Let me see.
I mean, I'm gonna, I'm gonna redo it. Somebody just proposed me a trade.
Pink crush. Pink crush. Yeah, I got to redo that.
Yeah, I didn't spell it with a K, by the way. It's not so.
Look at that nice podcast studio you got. It's an illusion. It's an illusion. It's not that nice.
I don't know if they'll just be from Florida around the country. Let me see. Like one inch.
I think I like the, I like the, you know, to add on to your niche, not only would it be strippers,
but it's cool that it's Florida strippers. Yeah. And I said that, I said, I said,
because Florida is around the world. I mean, they may be from around the world. Give me a break.
Maybe from around the country, but they might be from around the world. I mean, we'll see who comes.
Yeah. I mean, you go to your club. There's a lot of women definitely ain't from here.
Yeah. You're big. Are you big on Tik Tok? No, Tik Tok a lot. No,
but I had my friend Wally Green called me today and he, I tried to post something on Tik Tok
and he called me. He's like, bro, you're doing it all wrong. He showed me the right way to do it.
And he's like, he, because he does Wally Green. He's the ping pong player who's played in tournaments
all over the world. He's been in North Korea playing ping pong. Matt, you know, ping pong
tournaments in North Korea, fucking China, Australia, Germany, everywhere. And he lives in
New York City now and he makes ping pong videos on Tik Tok and he blows up on there. He's blowing
up and he was telling me all like the little tips and tricks to make your Tik Tok blow up.
I mean, I have a Tik Tok, but it doesn't do anything. Like we put up little snippets.
There's that recent leak of all those Facebook documents. You know that girl that was whistleblower
for Facebook? Yeah. In that, in one of those documents that she leaked, Facebook, they showed
a study on there comparing Instagram, which Facebook owns to Tik Tok. And it showed that
Facebook or Facebook's not Instagram, but Facebook's user base is like a large majority of boomers.
And it's like dwindling in the younger demographic year by year by year and Instagram
is starting to make that same trend. And their Facebook's own studies show that Tik Tok,
people on Tik Tok, what did it say? It said that Tik Tok has two to three times more
teenagers and people in like their early twenties than Instagram. And Instagram is like,
Instagram's audience is aging up a lot faster and people in their teenage years and their early
twenties spend two to three times more time on Tik Tok versus Instagram, which is pretty crazy.
I can see that. Yeah, I can see that. It's more interactive. There's more stuff,
you know, stuff to look at this. It's fun. But the thing is, is that it's not, you know, the,
as far as creating a kind of like a personal account, you know, it's not really that.
No, it's not like Instagram. It's not like you can post pictures and you can do, you know,
you can post pictures and little things like that. So I don't see, I can't imagine.
Once you start to like, like, like mess around and scroll through Tik Tok a couple times,
Instagram just seems so much more boring compared to it. I mean, yeah, I see what you're
saying, but still there's a personal appeal to Instagram and Facebook. Really? Like, I don't
get, I can't really get. What's the appeal of Facebook? I can't really. You can post pictures
and you can post. It's more personal. It's a personal. You could talk and you say.
Profile. And they, you know. Tik Toks, you just go in there and do your little dance.
Yeah, you do your little funny things and. I see all of them. All my shit on Tik Tok is like crazy
golf tricks and tips and. I mean, I guess it depends on what your interest is. See, like,
I never get anything like that. No, all I get is they, they serve you what you already like.
Of course I've got Joe. I get lots of jokes and funny things and I get, I get some conspiracy
theory stuff, but only because I'll get them and then I'll shoot them to people that I know.
Like, and so they're like, oh, he shares this stuff. He must love it. I really don't love it,
but I know all these crackpots that love it. Oh, this will get them going. Boom. Did you see
that, bro? Oh, that's crazy, man. Did I tell you about it? Oh, okay. I'll just listen. This guy's
insane. Bro, they are as I just saw it today. They're because Tik Tok is owned the company that
owns Tik Tok. I forget what the fuck it's called. It's called like bite dance, bit dance or something.
It's this company that's owned by China, by China. China company. Yeah. It's a CCP company
right that owns Tik Tok. And that guy Ted Cruz was like grilling the spokesperson for Tik Tok
under oath just the other day. And he's like, under your privacy policy, it says that the privacy
of the users on Tik Tok is subject to Tik Tok, XYZ and Tik Tok and some, you know, Tik Tok,
subsidiaries and other or something like that. And he's like, so does this other include Beijing,
the Beijing owned company called whatever that owns Tik Tok? Because the guy like wouldn't answer it.
He's like, it's a yes or no question. Is other considered. Yeah, but I gotta go back to China
and try to find that video. Ted Cruz questioning Tik Tok. It's fucking crazy because Ted Cruz is
actually like ethering this guy in front of Congress and this guy's like, yes or no, it's
binary like answer. Yes or no question. This guy's like, oh, he keeps like just like dodging it and
going around it. So it's pretty, it's pretty shady that, you know, it's quite possibly Tik Tok is
sharing. And who is that Beijing company? Yeah, I tried, I think it's like bit dance or something,
but it's a, it's a company based in the US, but they are partial, like they're invest,
one of their investors is like the CCP owns a percentage of that company.
Like all companies in China, like I was going to say most big technical or tech companies
and manufacturing companies, the Chinese government owns a portion of it. Right, right.
I had this conversation with an argument with him earlier this week. He's like,
why is everyone hating on China? Why is he didn't understand why everyone's hating on China?
He's like, what's so what's everyone hating on China for? And I was explaining to him,
world domination, like, like they're not, they're not trying to just like, hey,
we're just going to hang out here and make some money and be okay and, and help our people. Like
we're, they're thinking now we're going to eventually, we're just coming for everybody.
Right. I mean, America, I feel like America thinks they own the whole world.
No, yeah, but it's dwindling quickly. And here's the thing, look, here's the problem with that,
is that China, so I love it when there's, there's people like, yeah, but we do this and we do that
and we, and we bully people and we this, yeah, I understand, but you understand that if the balance
shifts, people are not going to, like other countries are not going to be as kind to us
as we've been to them. Like, so, so we're not taking over your country. We'd like to trade with you,
like to do this, we'd like you to be a democracy, we'd like you to be an ally. But the truth is,
if you decide against it, well, then okay, that's fine. Go away. We would just leave you alone.
But China doesn't want you to be like an ally. China wants to take over. You're now a part of
the Chinese, of China. You're now a part of the Communist Party. Like, we're going to wipe everybody
out. And you, and so people are like, oh, that's not good. No shit, it's not good. But they're
already wiping out their own people. They got an entire section of a whole entire sect of people
that they're wiping out right now because they don't feel like they're, they're ethnically Chinese
enough. So you tell me how Chinese are you? How are you Chinese enough? No, no. You know what
they're doing right now in, in Africa. Like in Africa, we give them loans to build things, right?
And then of course, they can't pay for the, did you read Confessions of an Economic Hitman?
Mm-mm. Oh my God, bro. It's so devious. Really? Oh, it's, it's based on, on what's written from a guy
who actually says, like he tried to write the book several times, he'd worked for a company
that basically was a front, it was a company that was basically the CIA. So, or the, in a combination
like CIA State Department, where they would go in and they would offer these massive loans in,
like South America to build all these roads and a dam. And they give these, they give like whoever,
some country in South America, Peru or something. And so they build this stuff. And if they,
if they pill for the loan and they can't build it, well, they still have to repay it. Like,
I don't care what you do with the money. You know, we're going to hire, we'd like you to hire these
companies, American companies, to build it. And hopefully it gets built. And hopefully you guys
don't steal the money before we can build it. But once it's built, you have to pay it back. If you
can't pay it back, well, then we have the, we, we have the option to come in and run this part of the
dam and do this and do that. And we get to take your, your UN vote. Like, so now you have to vote
our way in the UN. There's all this manipulation. And really what we did was we gave you a loan
that we really didn't think you were going to be able to pay back. And when you couldn't,
now we get your stuff. That sounds familiar. Right.
What? That's, that just sounds like typical banks yet. I mean, okay, well, no, the banks
want you to pay for it. The banks don't want your house. But the point is, is that they're doing
that. So here's the thing. So, but the problem is a lot of times, like in a lot of countries,
we would give them loans and they couldn't pay it back. And they really only lose very little.
Like they might lose their voting rights in, in NATO or whatever, you know, the UN or whatever
there, but it's not like huge. Well, China's coming in and China is saying, like, they're
going to Africa right now and they are, they're, they're building roads, but they're building the
roads. So they're building the roads, they're building factories, they're building things
in these other countries and having their, the Africans work them, but they still own everything.
So they're basically enslaving them in their own country because they don't want them in their
country. So we're going to build these, these, we're going to build these factories. We're going
to have you guys work them. And then we're going to, you know, we're going to reap the profits and
you guys don't own anything. And if you can't pay or whatever, you know, the problem is, then we can
always come in and take things over. We, they're giving themselves, they're turning these countries
into, you know, satellite, not even, not even satellite countries. You can't even say, yeah,
yeah. Like you go to Africa, there's tons of Chinese in Africa right now.
Are they loaning the money to Africa to build this? Or are they building it themselves? Like,
we would loan them the money, they're going in and give them a loan that they couldn't pay.
The Chinese are going in and they're building everything and then hiring all the Africans.
So we're going to raise your economy up a little bit. Okay. But look, you see how they treat their
own people. How do they treat their own people? Explain this for him. He doesn't know. Like
your, your cell phone right now, you understand if you work like, you know what a good job and a
good job in China right now? First of all, there used to be no middle class, but they actually
have a growing middle class. But right now, if you work, and let's say you work for Apple in China.
Foxconn. Okay. Foxconn. So they lit, they, they, here's what they do. You work there. So you're
working 40 to 60 hours a week and you can live in, and it's in the middle of nowhere. There's nowhere
to live. So you can live in one of our buildings. It costs this much money. You can have a cell phone.
It costs this much money. You can get on the food planet. It's this much. By the time they're done,
these people are basically making, after they pay all their bills, they might have a few dollars
left over, like they're trapped. It was so bad. The depression was so bad in these, in these
buildings. Suicide. People were jumping out of the buildings. And so Apple, when Apple, when there
was pressure put on Apple, because there were all these articles saying, this is, are you happy
with your cell phone? Because Chinese people are jumping out of buildings because they're working
50, 60, 70 hours a week and you're taking all their money. It's a complete trap. And this is
their own people. And, and Apple said, look, you have to fix this. Do you know what the,
do you know what they did to fix it? You're right, we do. We're gonna, we're gonna lock the windows.
And if they knock them out, we're putting nets. They put, they put nets at the end. So if they do
jump, they'll hit the net. Yeah. Maybe just pay them a little bit more. Is that an option? They're
like, oh, that's crazy. Wait a minute. No, no, no, no, no, no. That's, yeah. But that's more
affordable. Right. So I'm saying, what, what are they gonna do if this is their own people? What
are they gonna do? And listen, they're, they're gonna want to take, they're gonna want to take
Taiwan back. They're already trying to do that. They're already making these little fake islands.
So they're making little fake islands off the coast of China so that they can expand the
China's, like, like, what's their property? They're gonna try and take, they want Taiwan,
but they've already said that we want Taiwan. They're taking Taiwan over. Yeah, we're gonna
take this back. What was, what was the latest, at some point, what was the last jurisdiction they
took over? What was the, it was, uh, was it, um, the NBA player was talking about it. Um, this is
the guy for the Celtics. Um, I forget what, I forget. What are we, wait, wait, um, man, I can't
believe they're, they keep taking more and more territory. Like they keep, they keep claiming
more territory. Right, but nobody's doing, nobody does anything. How come they can't take North
Korea? They, they, they, they work with North Korea. Yeah, they don't want North Korea. They,
they are, there's a ton of people there. They're all start, so basically they'd have to come in
and feed the first, that's like us invading North Korea. Why don't we invade North Korea?
First of all, because they have China. Well, of course, one, they have China, but the second
problem is that we have to feed all these people. Like they're starving to death right now. Right.
We come in the, it's a logistical nightmare to have to feed all these people in an economy that
can't pay, pay for their own food. So I don't want, we don't want that problem. China doesn't
want the problem. Why wasn't China, China could go in there in a weekend and take over the whole
country. They're like, these people, these people, the average height down, there's like five foot
one. They have no nutrition. I'm like a giant in China. I'm like six, two in China. I could be
pushing everybody around, but yeah, it's, it's, I mean, sorry, in China and, and, and, and North
Korea, it's horrible. Right. It's horrible. Did you see the one soldier? This was a couple of
years ago. He escaped. He got through the, like through like the demilitarized zone. He actually
got into, he actually got into South Korea. He had, they were like, listen, this guy had like
six different like tapeworms inside of him. He had all, he, they said, malnutrition. I mean,
he was just falling apart. This is a, this is a soldier. And he was explaining like, look,
there's no food. Like we're barely being fed. And, and they chased him now. They tried to kill him
on their way there. They're shooting out of everything. You want to know what's fucking
crazy. I just found out the other day when I Googled it, when me and him were arguing about,
he was trying to argue with me about China. He's saying in China's, no, there's nothing
wrong with China. And I was trying to explain to him all this stuff. I was like, I looked it up.
I said, what crimes are punishable by death in China? Fucking fraud. Oh yeah. Mortgage fraud.
No good, bro. Almost any type of fraud was death. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's, it's, it's,
did you remember the thing where that guy, they, they, did they kill him or did he kill himself
where they had the dog food from China and they were putting some kind of bullshit filler in it?
Like, that was like, basically it was like, it was like styrofoam, like styrofoam or something
in the dog food or something, just to save a little few pennies. And when they found out
about it, the guy was like, I think he killed himself or they, because it was fraud. Like
you're running a scam and you're making us look bad. You're selling this to the Americans. Now
they're, it's in all their papers. They're going to stop buying, they're going to stop buying this,
you know, all food products for all these different companies. And of course the Chinese
government, you know, we own parts of those companies. Like, all right, that's it. You're
dead. You're a dead man. So he's killed himself. I think he killed himself or
mostly he killed himself. It was, it was, listen, whatever it was, the, it was outrageous what
happened to him as a result of like, I hear like, they'd be like, you can go to jail for 18 months.
You know, it was a bad situation. Yeah, it's fine. But China has a pretty like basically
an economic stranglehold on the rest of the world. Well, they've got a long-term plan.
They're not thinking next quarter. They're not thinking next two or three quarters ahead.
They're thinking the next half a century. Right. You know, so how do you, and, and their, their,
their entire thing is being run by one guy and a party that's designed to, for, for world domination.
You know, they're not saying, Hey, let's all just be friends. It's like, no, no, we're going
to, they're, they are, listen, they're going to take over South America. They're already taking
it over South America and Africa. That's what's going to happen. Which parts of South America
are they taking over? I mean, I don't know exactly what, what parts, but there's tons of them down
there. Really? They're, they're building roads. They're building factories. They're hiring people.
They're, it's, it's massive. Wow. Did you, and you know, in China, they, they have like, you know,
they're the surveillance system where they can, they're tracking all their citizens, like almost
all the cities, like, like, like they are here. Facial recognition. Yeah. But this is,
they're tracking you everywhere you go and they're recording the things that you do.
No, I don't, I don't, not, not to, let me put it, it's so out there. It's so obvious.
They've come up with a, a social score. Yeah. The social credit score. Social credit.
So if you, we're on that way, we're on the, we're heading that direction though here.
If you've, you were drunk in public, maybe they're just more open about it.
Well, maybe, but, but listen, no matter how bad it is, it may or may not be here.
If it were to ever happen there, you've been called littering twice. You've been,
there was a domestic charge. You weren't charged, but there was a domestic call.
Your neighbor's complained. And one time you had a DUI four years ago. And guess what? You,
you graduated high school, but very low in your class. So you've got a very low social score. So
we're not going to allow you to use any of the trains or planes. You can't leave the country
and you can't leave the city. And you can't live in certain areas. Are you serious? Like,
yeah, yeah, that's it. Yeah. What are you talking about? Like, I, I, I, I, the,
the paper fell out of my pocket. My wife, since she says she's bipolar,
she's screaming and the neighbor's called the cops. Like, I, what are you talking? How is it?
Yeah, no, that's to say I was drunk when I was driving. Right. I, I, I, I, did I do bad at
high school? No, but no offense. I had no, no parents, no, no parental supervision and my
teachers sucked and I have a learning disability. How do I have a four on the social score?
Like, I mean, you know, it's unfair. Like there's, there's just these things that are just
ridiculous. Listen, bro, I, I, my biggest fear would be China. Luckily, by the time they probably
start invading and taking over, I'll be dead. But they probably want to invade like, like forcefully,
right? Like they, they don't need to, they don't have the Navy. They don't have the ability to
move their troops into like the, the only, one of the few countries in the world that has the
ability to move a massive amount of their forces across the world is the United States.
Right. Right. Like China doesn't have that. Right now, their concern is protecting our borders and
we can expand our borders from where we're at. Take over this country. We'll take over this
island slowly, but at this point, they're spending more and more money every single year. And I
think it's something like in 10 years from now, they'll be spending the same amount of money
we're spending on, on defense and their economy is massive. Oh yeah. So at some point, it will
overtake our economy. When it overtakes our economy and they can outspend us, then they win.
Right. You know, you would think if you, if you were in charge of a country, right? Like,
like for a second, hypothetically, forget about human rights, forget about the people of your
country. But if you treat your comp, your, your, if, like instead of it being your business, it's
your country and you want to make it the dominant superpower of the world, they're doing it right.
Like they are the superpower. Yeah. But they're also doing it at the expense of their own people.
Like, like you would think you would try and dump money or dump more resources or, you know,
have a, an economic plan that helped elevate your own people. I mean, a ton of people are just
dirt poor in China. Like grow your middle class. You know, the United States in the 70s was like
at our peak, our middle class was massive. Like people were doing well. You know,
people aren't doing great now. You know, and, and, and one of the presidents had the idea of,
of, of moving all of our industrial, our, you know, our industrial manufacturing and stuff with
like car manufacturers and steel and all that stuff. We, we shipped it all to China. Right.
Here's the president. When did that happen? Well, I don't know which president. There's a lot of
cars that are made in China. There's a lot of cars that cars are made here too. The problem is at
some point, like Detroit used to be, Detroit used to be like a metropolis. Oh yeah. Of course,
now it's, it's, now it's hellhole. Right. Right. But I mean, imagine, imagine someday you need to
start, um, you know, you start manufacturing tanks and all of these types of things and,
and most of a ton of stuff is being manufactured with your enemy.
You know, I mean, what do you do? So it's just, I just don't think it's a good situation at all.
Like, like to me right now with, with, um, with Biden being president, like, like I didn't like,
I wouldn't have paid Taiwan right now and just take it over. Like, take that whole lot. Like,
who's going to really, nobody, you know, he's, is he competent to make any of these decisions?
Like to him, he'd be like, I sent out a harshly worded email. I mean, like, what are you going
to do? Like he's backpedaled so much. It's such a disaster. Well, we've been the need of China
pretty much constantly. All of our biggest companies do. The NBA bends the need of China
when anything happens. When one of our, when one of the NBA players or one of the NBA executives
says some shit about China on Twitter, they fucking, they fire the per that person or they,
they push them down or they silence them. Yeah. At some point, the NBA completely
bends the need of China because I think China is 10% of the NBA's total revenue.
Yeah. What's Russia doing over there?
Play this video. Play this video. This video is fucking hilarious. This is Ted Cruz talking to
the TikTok executive. I was just going to say, that's Ted Cruz. Get some volume going.
Turn the volume up on the remote. You've got the remote.
Oh, no, that's the light. The TV remote. Yeah, right there.
There you go. I like the title. Ted Cruz explodes. Oh, we got no audio. Oh, you got it. You got to
go to the volume set, the volume audio settings on the, on the monitor, on the bottom right.
It's going. This is fucking great. Watch this.
You've refused three times. That may be revealing. Often at Sherlock Holmes and Gerg about the
dogs that do not bark, it may be revealing that... That's the guy that's quoting Sherlock Holmes.
Yeah, he is. Matt Locke.
...the business of online propaganda. You're refusing to answer whether they call on your
privacy policy. That reveals, I think, a great deal. I'm just trying to be accurate here.
Would they say no? If it's no, then it's no. Right, right. Is it yes or no? It's obviously not no.
Right? Well, you can't just say yes, right?
You can't say yes or he's dead, man. He might disappear. Wouldn't it be great if he said,
Senator, I have children. Do you have children, Senator?
Senator, I answered the question. You have not answered the question. Is it
another affiliate? Yes or no? Senator, I stated a number of times that
entity is a domestic entity within China for the license of their entity.
And apples are red. You stated something that is not the question I asked. Is it another affiliate
and defined under privacy policy? Yes or no? You're here on the road. Are you going to answer the
question or answer the question? Or were you instructed not to answer the question? No, Senator,
so you're just not refusing the answer because you don't want to? Senator, it is not affiliated with
TikTok. Is that your question? That is the answer. Then say no. Your answer is that
Beijing Bytes Technology is not a quote other affiliate of our corporate group as your privacy
policy uses that term. This is a legal question with consequence. Senator, I understand the question.
As I pointed out, TikTok is not available in China. That is an entity that is for
purposes of the license of business in China but is not affiliated with TikTok. So for the record,
you're refusing to answer the question. I believe I answered your question. Yes or no? Tell me
which one it is. Just give me one word. Yes or no? Can you force somebody to give you a yes or no
answer? No. It does seem like it's a yes or no question.
Is this company one of these? It won't answer it. You can stop it. It's complicated.
That was this. Long company fall within. That's like saying. Sorry for the long video. Is Shane
a member of my family? Right. Yes or no? Let's see. You're under. Exactly. Not quite. Sure.
It's sketchy that he wouldn't answer no. It's not even sketchy. It's obvious. It's not
answer. You can see. But I mean he's playing the role of any other typical lawyer in the courtroom.
I have children. Please stop asking me this question. So Matt, based on your information
and your knowledge that you know about China, why would that guy say yes or no? All my information
comes from YouTube. Yeah. I mean obvious. Yeah. It must be. Is it crazy? Do you think China is
collecting biometric data on American teenagers through TikTok? I think on anybody, on everybody.
I think they've got massive buildings filled with computer banks that are just
storing just tons of information on everybody. But what's interesting is one,
why isn't TikTok in China? And my other question is, you understand China doesn't,
they don't have any respect for our intellectual property. No. Right. I told him that too. He
doesn't care. What's wrong with you? So they have banking on you.
They're banking. How much money is China making of me? For instance, I'll give you an example.
They're stealing intellectual property from U.S. companies. Like Nike? Who do you think pays
for all of that research that China just comes in and says, oh, let's just steal this? You know,
Nike doesn't seem too upset. All the shoes are made there. Well, no, because they're
making tons of money. So what do they care? But I'm not talking about it. I'm not talking about,
I'm not talking about, because that's what they're banking on. They're banking on people
to be happy watching sitcoms and playing with their cell phones while they grow and grow and
doing nothing. Pull your troops back from here. We don't need to build this many tanks. Forget
about getting the next generation fighter. Don't worry about putting money into satellite
research. We're good. We're happy. We've got cell phones. We get to go to dinner twice a week.
Like, you know, we can play baseball. We can watch baseball and football. So we're happy.
So what does it matter while we're sitting here, you know, la, la, la, la, la, and they're building
up, building up, building up. And then one day they start building troop transports.
We're not building nothing over here? No, but we're not expanding.
They're expanding. Let me put it this way. Why aren't we expanding?
That's what I'm saying. Listen, like, you know, people talk about like colonialism,
like, oh, you shouldn't have colonial, listen, if I was president, Mexico would be a state right
now. I mean, we're worried about the border. Man, I'd just go in that whole place and clean it out.
It'd be horrible. It'd be brutal. Let me tell you something. They're going in the vaults.
You would clean it out? Oh, there'd be firing squad. Oh, and as far as Afghanistan, I mean,
sound any better than China. No, wait till they wait till they get
carte blanche, do whatever they want. You don't really think that they're gonna like let the
rest of us like we're subhuman to them. You know, we the way we looked at the Chinese back in the
shoot back throughout the the the 19 the the 1800s and 1900s, like we were like they were
they were little people with squinty eyes and they couldn't see like we were completely racist,
right? Well, it shifted. Like they think we're we're we're not in the same category as them.
Like they don't want Americans. Like they'll take a couple of Americans because, you know,
we're kind of creative. And they like to have us come in, pay us a little bit of money, steal our
stuff, steal this, the windmills that they all had, they had some company come in and build the
windmills and come up with the all of the all the software. And then you know what they did?
They said, yeah, we don't need any more your windmills. Why? Because we've now figured out how
to do the software. We've now got now we're manufacturing the windmills, we're putting
them all up ourselves. We've stolen your intellectual property. These people then the
the windmill companies over here, the for the electric windmills sued them billions of dollars
worth of lawsuits that they're supposed to pay. And the Chinese are like, yeah, we're not paying,
but you clearly stole our stuff. You're using all of our technology to build your windmills.
Yeah, I know. What are you gonna do? Right? Nothing, you're gonna do anything. So, right,
we're just gonna keep your stuff. So what what I'm saying is they're basically economically
bullied by them, right? And at some point, at some point telling me that doesn't go both ways.
I'm saying that right now, and for the past 50 years, we could have invaded all of these other
countries. We didn't. We didn't, though. So what I'm saying is they're already doors, I think we
kind of disagree. Iraq and I get there. I mean, we own banks in all the fucking countries.
Yeah, but you know, so what just happened in Afghanistan? You know what I'm saying? Like,
what's happened in all of these countries? I mean, we're saying, hey, become a democracy.
We're not coming in saying, like, to me, it'd be colonialism. I'd go straight in and just
wipe out the entire upper structure, and I would wipe out everybody and I'd put our own people in,
and I'd have green zones, and they'd all be subservient. It'd be brutal. There'd be firing
squads. It'd be horrific because that's what's going to happen when China takes over.
They're going to come in here, and your children are going to be lined up and going to their schools.
And if you say anything, you're going to be in an internment camp or you're going to be executed,
and they're going to go through and they're going to clean everybody out.
You didn't tell me you were such a nihilist. I mean, what am I supposed to say, bro? I mean,
it's the truth. I mean, that's what's going to happen. Like they could take us over.
Right now, I don't. Right now, I don't. Right now, I think it's, first of all,
they can't even invade right now. Like they literally can't move the troops.
They have their navies like nothing compared to ours.
Right. Right. But you also know what they're building. They're building these submarines
that are kind of like we have the drones. They have subs that are like that. So their whole
concept is right now, we build, do you remember the Wolfpacks in World War II? So in Germany,
what they could do from inside of Germany was it was, we can't build these massive ships. It's
too much. But what we can do is we can build 1000, 2000 submarines so we can make the sea so dangerous
that they can't use it to their advantage. So we can't build a bunch of ships from Germany.
We don't have the resources. We don't have the ability. We can't get fucking drone submarines.
No, what I'm saying is we don't have them. I'm saying they do. They're building so many of them
that they're going to make the sea so dangerous. We got sky drone dropping bombs.
They're going to make the sea so dangerous that even if they don't have the ships,
they can take out ours. They don't have to build ships to compete with us if they just
remove ours from the equation. And it's cheaper to build. The submarines are considered navy.
The submarine is considered a warship. What do you mean it's considered a warship?
It's considered a submarine is part of a navy. First of all, they're not even manned.
We're talking about, no, they're like drones. Surely we can get a few of those.
I mean, but you have to develop. You can't put together something like that from scratch.
We can't. That takes a decade in research. Then you have to figure out the manufacturer and then
you have to, they're way ahead of us. They're already figuring this out. They're going to have a
massive, massive military and they've got the men. Are you serious? Listen, check the comments.
We've got drones flying around the world, dropping bombs on people.
We can't figure out how to make them go under the water. They've got like 20 soldiers for every
one soldier we have. That's 20 to one. You can have bows and arrows and I can have a machine
gun and guess what? You're going to take me out. You got 20 guys. I've got, you're going to give
me. There's 20 of you. I don't know about all that. I mean, we got missiles and all sorts of
stuff. What's the population of China? Yeah, but so why, how are they so far ahead of us?
Even if they're not, look, I'm not saying that they are, they are technically superior. What I'm
saying is if it comes down to it, the numbers alone should tell you that, first of all, they have
more tanks than us already, by the way. They have more tanks. They have more troop transports as
far as like inside the country. They have more jeeps. They have 20 times, I think it's something
I think it's like 20 people, 20 soldiers for every one of our soldiers. I mean, come on, bro.
1.4 billion. I know, that's an issue. How many people we have? We have 300 million in the U.S.
They've got more people. Is it 350 now? Is it 350 or 330 something right now?
So, 350 maybe. What's the U.S. population? 1.4 billion in 2020 in China. That's fucking absurd.
Okay, United States right there. Yeah, 325 million, 329 million. 320. Oh, I said 330.
Yeah, you were close. How many people, how many soldiers are in the Chinese military?
Yeah, look at that up. Soldiers in the Chinese military. Did you see that video on social media
of the North Korean soldiers putting on that show for Kim Jong-un? They had this group of
North Korean soldiers doing like crazy fucking martial arts, like kicking people in the head,
doing backflips, like Jackie Chan type shit. Yeah, this guy's like, he's like...
Okay, China military size, 4 million, 15,000 total personnel. 4 million. How many are in the U.S.?
2.2 million. 4 million versus two. So what? They got twice the per...
Okay, twice. Whatever, bro. It's a lot. It's a lot. That's double. That's double our people,
double. It's not 20, but it is double. What do you want to do about it?
I don't want to do anything. What I want to do is I want to put more money into military,
and I want to start taking over some countries. That's what I want to do. I want to take all of
South America. I want to take all the answer I was looking for. I want to go in, I want to push
all the way through Mexico. But we're already putting an insane amount of money into the military.
What do you mean? No, no, I mean more. And I think you go in and you take over Mexico,
and I think you go into all of South America, and I think you go into all of Africa, and I think
that's it. Yeah, but then you got to feed all those people, like you said. Now what? Listen,
I'm not gonna feed everybody, man. Look, the difference is that I'm not that concerned about
feeding them. He wants to kill them all. We were talking about wide-ed firing squads. Listen,
we're sitting next to the modern-day Hitler. I'm just saying something you got to start
thinking long-term. You're taking over. Like what's his name? Amadeo. You're just another Amadeo.
Who's arrested, by the way? He's in jail. What? He's back in jail? No. No. How did that happen?
They violated his probation through him back in jail. Now, we don't know if it's a new charge. See,
I don't talk to him, but we don't know if it's a new charge or if it's a new charge or if it's
just a probation violation because he was combining several companies and he had a bunch of offices
in Orlando, and basically he was doing what he does. He was putting together a mass company
and I told you it's not stopping. Oh, my God. He's going off. And listen, in my book,
I explained that he will get out and do it all over again. He's been doing this.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's hard to have a positive outlook on humanity and the world when all it is
is just these separate fucking groups of people just trying to take over and kill the other group
of people. Did I tell you about that? That's all we are. One of his things was he was going to execute
like all the lawyers. Listen, during a rant, so just for your knowledge, I wrote a book called
It's Insanity about a guy named Frank Abodeo who is a rapid cycling bipolar with features of
Schizophrenia that believes that God is telling him he is preordained to be emperor of the world.
The book's not even long. It's less than 200 pages. But great book.
Tried to take over the Congo. Did you ever watch the documentary Nine Days in the Congo? Awesome.
Fucking amazing. Listen, he's great. I got photos. He tries to take over the Congo. He
tries to become the president of the Congo. No, no. He tried to get a guy elected as president
of the Congo. The guy he had in his pocket. He basically had a private military group that
went in there. He had hired a bunch of mercenaries. It was basically like a coup.
They were going to take over a political coup but still a coup and they figured it out and they
arrested his guys and eventually he gets them released and it doesn't work. But the fact that
you even think that you can do it is insane. Tried to buy a bunch of F-15s and F-16s that were used.
I mean, anyway, the point is, yeah, got out on COVID, violated somehow, whether it's a new charge,
I don't know, but they put him back in jail. He's back in jail right now.
Fuck. Is he back in Coleman? No, no. He's just, right now he's just in like the Marshall's holdover.
Oh my god. Damn. I'm trying to think. You know what? Where? Where? I'm trying to think because I
actually looked it up. So, I mean, you know, I, um... Can you Google Frank Amadeo?
Let's see if we can find any news articles on him. That's fucked up. I'm trying to find Mike Amadeo.
There's no finding him. He's in Dunedin somewhere. I don't know. Trying to...
Oh, okay. I know what I'm going to do. Frank Amadeo.
Oh, oh, try the second one. Here it is. Wait, look, here's where he is. He's in SeminalSheriff.org.
So, SeminalCountySheriff.org. SeminalSheriff.org. Look, look, look, look, look. Here.
Oh my god. Look at this fuck, bro. He looks old. He looks weathered in this face.
He's trying to take over the world. I mean, it's not easy. It's hard on you.
It's a hard life. Wow. Did you, did you go to the inmate thing or...
Can I, can I have my thing back? Let me see what else you got going on here.
Yeah, nah, nah, nah, nah. What are you doing? That's fucked up, man. Fucking Amadeo, bro.
So, let me ask you this. If, if Matt Cox was president of the United States... Oh god.
What? Who are you taking first? You're taking Amadeo. You're gonna make Amadeo.
Amadeo's president. Oh listen, Amadeo may be in charge. Amadeo's VP. He, he's, he's had a military.
Absolutely. Military NASA and, and, and he may be joint chiefs of staff. Listen, things are changing.
Hey, speaking of NASA. Things are changing. Speaking of NASA. And there'd be, oh my god.
Who else are you hiring? Brutal. Listen, right now it'd be the state of
Afghanistan. We'd, we'd be 51 states. Not to, there'd probably be, by now, 55 states.
But why would you... That had done taken over, like, like Mexico, Afghanistan. Oh, there'd be some.
Puerto Rico? Yeah, you're a state now. I mean, just like all these things that, no, no, we're
scratching that. We're scratching that. No. So why doesn't the United States take over these countries?
Because they consider it like colonialism and it's like it's bad because, oh, you're,
you're making them subservient to your, because what happened was like, look, you've got France
and the Netherlands also. But if we can make it, it seems like if we could make Mexico,
is the, is the point, is the reason we don't, like, if you could say like, okay, we could take Mexico,
we could do a deal, we could make them party in the United States and make Mexico, we can improve
everything about Mexico, the quality of life there, the jobs there, like we can make it a,
this party in the United States. It seems like it, you could do it. Our economy would get hurt,
though. That's the problem is our economy for a temporary period of time would, would be, there
would be a drain. Why? Because, because you'd be absorbing an economy that is not functioning as
well as ours. Okay. You know, it'd be like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, marrying your,
your wife who basically is in the hole every single month and now you have to start contributing to,
to pay her bills. It's like, right. You know, so eventually you think, okay, it's okay because
I can get her straightened out and I can fix this and we can refinance this and we can do this with
and eventually five years, 10 years from now, it'll be better, but it takes decades to bring
that whole country up. You know, so it's, so instead what we say is build a wall, you know,
keep very few of them from coming in. Let's try and trade with them. You know, there's little
things that we kind of do, but because they're saying, look, it's, it's a massive undertaking to
do that. I personally don't think it's that massive if you just get rid of a good portion of the
population. Is that wrong? I feel bad about that. But genocide? Yeah, that's kind of wrong. I mean,
I mean, I'm just saying in general, if you're a drain, it's an issue. They're killing each other
off right now. What are you talking about? They're always killing one another off the cartels. Yeah,
cartels. Wipe them out. What's the problem with that? Wipe them out. Make drugs legal. That would
wipe them out. That would be an issue. But you also look, some drugs like, like meth legal,
legal. Yeah, you're talking about wiping them out. Let them wipe themselves out if they want to
make meth legal, make cocaine legal. If you're going to be dumb enough, I mean, at least the people
that die from cocaine and that shit right now is they die because they don't know what it's cut with.
It's cut with fentanyl and you don't know what they're saying. Make a better product. If I take
a shot of this whiskey, I know I'm drinking whiskey. If I drink like, you know, this analogy has been
made before, I could drink this whole bottle of whiskey. I know I would probably end up in the
hospital or dead if I chugged this whole bottle of whiskey, right? Okay, it's different with cocaine.
If I got a little fucking eight, if I got a fucking grandma cocaine, I don't know. I'm rolling the
dice because you don't know what it's cut with. If it's cut with fentanyl and I do a line of coke
laced with fentanyl. Adios, amigo, bro. I'm dead. But if you know that it's pure cocaine, just like
I know this is fucking whiskey, I know my tolerance. I know how much I can do. The reason so many people
die from doing coke and doing fucking heroin, whatever it is, is it's cut with all this fucking
crazy shit. You don't know what it is because it's illegal and because cartels can cut it,
not the cartels. The cartels usually provide pretty, pretty much a pure product. A1. But when it gets
to the US, the fucking, some of these guys in the US, the drug dealers in the US, they'll cut
it with their shit to kind of increase their profit margin. And the result of that is a lot
of people die because they don't know what they're getting. If you made it legal and you regulated
it and you tested the purity, I don't think cocaine's a bad thing. If cocaine was legal and
regulated and it was, you could buy a bottle of whiskey, just like if you could buy a bag of coke,
just like if you could buy a bottle of whiskey, I think it would, you know, it, first of all,
it would fucking take out the cartels. Second of all, people wouldn't be dying from it.
It costs too much because then your government owns it and they want to make some money.
I guarantee you if cocaine was legal, still more people would die from, from alcohol than
they would from cocaine. Probably. And it would take out the cartels,
instead of fucking putting them in front of firing squads like you want to do.
Listen, nobody's missing those guys. All right, nobody's missing.
You're a real piece of shit, Matt. I mean, what am I supposed to say? Danny, sorry.
You should just go join China. Yeah, you should.
Oh, wait, wait till they take over. Shane loves China. They should just join their side.
Bro, they, they come, when they come in, there's gonna, it'll be execution. It'll be,
they'll be wiping you out. Shane visited China once when he was like 13 years old.
Take me out then. He thinks it's the coolest place out here.
China. Where'd you go? We stayed in Guangzhou most of the time.
So now he thinks he's like a local there. He's like, bro,
quit talking shit about China, bro. I've been there, bro. Just like he was born.
Exactly what I said. He was, he was born in Pittsburgh. He was there for like a week.
And now he thinks he's like a fucking, he's like a Pittsburgh, you know, he's a yinzer.
He's a Pittsburgh fan because he was there for, he was there for the first week of his life.
So he thinks he's like a local Pittsburgh. He's like, why were you in China?
My uncle married some girl from China. Nice. We stayed over there with her family and shit.
Yeah. Which uncle? Oh, my dad's side. The uncle was at your grandma's house? No.
How'd that work out? Good. Still married? Still with her? I don't know. I think so.
China was pretty cool. Does China have a lot of mail order brides?
I don't know. I wonder if China, if you can get, if you get mail.
It's a Russia thing. Russia and China. No, no, there's tons of them from South America too.
Like there's tons of women that will come here to be married to an American.
I mean, they'll pay. To get your green card.
Yeah. Well, yeah. You don't have to be a citizen. You don't have to be a citizen.
Because the United States has the, like the human rights, the human rights freedoms in the
United States are unlike any other country, right? Especially China and Russia. I don't know about
that, but that's what they're pitching. That's what they're pitching, bud.
I wonder if people in Russia and China get mail order brides from the U.S.
Too expensive. Come on. No. The billionaires probably do.
Nobody wants these American women. I bet you Chinese billionaires are flying in some wide
obedience. They don't listen. That's true. They want stuff. You get some chick from China.
Like, did you ever see the Eddie Murphy of Rawl where he's like, look,
he's just happy. Like they got some shoes. Like you bought him some regular shoes.
They're like, oh, Eddie, thank you for these shoes. You know, they're like, so yeah.
Shane loves China. Well, I mean, that's good.
I'm telling you, it's going to go bad. It's going to go all go. It's probably,
it might not be for 25 years. You say 25 years, China's taken us over.
I think that it's, I think that it's, it's, you know, it's funny is like,
we're saying this right now, but let's say five years from now, they invade Taiwan,
they just take it over. And then you go, that's going to be less than five years.
I don't know. I'm shocked they didn't, they haven't done it this year.
But like to me, then you go, okay, well, then they kind of back off like, yeah, that's it.
That's it. That's it. And then suddenly, you know, they, they invade like, you know, Pakistan.
They have like issues with the board on the border of Pakistan.
And you don't think the U S instantly starts seeing some red flags and starts fucking around
over there. U S ain't going to fuck around with that. Listen, this isn't like going against,
we've been fucking around over there with everybody the whole time. The U S, the U S and China,
not China, but Afghanistan. Afghanistan, Afghanistan, Afghanistan, their military was
like South Carolina National Guard. I mean, it was like ridiculous. But you think they're just
going to let China keep taking shit over? I think they keep doing it. Yeah. Yeah.
Because eventually they get so big that you're like, look, a full out war is a full out war.
So where are they taking over so far? I mean, they're, they're, they've been pushing back,
that constant, first of all, they constantly have battles or disagreements with,
is it Pakistan or India? I think it's Pakistan.
What? No. So, I mean, you know, so they're, they're also, they, listen, they're also trying to expand,
you know, they're doing a lot of stuff. And I'm sure you're going to say,
the America did the same thing and everything. The problem is they're doing it better.
So they have a better long-term policy. And in the end, their goal is that they are going to
continue to take over these, look, they're surrounding us right now. You know, they're,
they're in South, in South America right now. Like a very, there's a ton of China, Chinese in,
in Peru. I mean, eventually. Chinese companies?
Chinese companies and Chinese. Like, I have a, but they,
What does it matter if there's some Chinese people living there? What does that mean?
No, no, no, not some. I mean, a lot, like they're going in, they're building factories,
they're building, they're building all throughout and they're hiring, you know,
they're hiring those workers. And what they're doing is they're, it's, it's influence.
They're trying to push their influence. And at some point, that influence shifts against the
United States. That's all I'm saying. Like the funny thing is, is like, you have to look out
for your interests. How many people can they take over that we're not friends with? I mean,
first of all, our friends are, are fleeting. You know, like, like even, even the thing with
Afghanistan, but did you see almost all of our allies are like, you just pulled, you never asked,
you pulled out, you didn't tell us this is coming. Like they're scrambling to get out of Afghanistan
because like 80% of all the troops there are like the United States. You don't know if it's
exactly 80, but there was a ton. Like they just did it. So they're, our allies are furious at us.
You know, so I mean, it gets to be, it just gets to be an issue. It's just credibility. And
eventually people start saying, look, we're just not going to back you. And China is too powerful.
And so what do you do when they start taking over these little countries does not, they,
the United States has been bending the need of China for a while, no matter what they do,
they've been bullying us. Yeah. Listen, not, not to say we didn't bully them for a long time
and everybody else. And I get it. It's like, but to say, okay, well, then now it's our turn to take
some crap. Well, that's karma. Disagree. Sure. Is it unfair? Yeah. Is it unfair that, you know,
that we pushed a whole bunch of people around for, for decades and now they're pushing us around?
Slave to people. I mean, I mean, they have slavery there now. I mean, they, oh, they take
people in from North Korea and they harvest them for their fucking organs. What is that?
What is that? Making your nikes that you're wearing? I don't have nikes. There's an entire
area in China that basically they're like starving to death. They have intern camps. Right.
Can you, can you punch up intern camps in China? Internment intern internment internment. I said,
what is it? What is an internment camp? It's basically nice. It's insanity. I love it. I love
it. I didn't even see that Frank. Frank looks 20 years younger in that photo. Yeah. Well,
that was a while ago. That was before he did 10 years in prison. Internment camp. Yeah. China.
No, but China has a really big, uh, organ, uh, industry. Yeah. Harvesting organs for people.
Oh, is that, that's it right there. Wait, what is it called? Yings internment camp? Oh, yeah,
they have camps. Right. There's like a whole section of their population that they're basically
going after and putting in these camps for what? What are these camps? I don't know. They're so,
they got some problem with click on that photo again in the top one. All right. Now,
click on the link, the Wikipedia link. Yeah, right there. They got some problem with the
authenticity of this gang internment camp officially called the vocational education
and training centers by the government of China are internment camps operated by the government of
the, uh, I'm not going to even try to say that. And the Chinese Communist party CCP.
Human rights watch say that they have been used to indoctrinate
you, you gin hers and other Muslims since 2017 as part of a people's war on terror,
a policy announced in 2014. The camps have been criticized for alleged human rights abuses,
including mistreatment, rape, and torture by the governments of many countries and human
rights organizations. Huh. Yeah, that's not the segment of the population that I'm talking about.
There's an entire area. Somebody I'm sure in the, I'm sure guys will scream and holler that you're
talking about what I'm talking about. There's an entire area that they're going in. It's like
saying, yeah, I've heard this. They have camps there where they basically enslave people. Right.
Right. It's like saying, it's like if suddenly the United States government said, you know what,
we're going to go after all the Puerto Ricans. Right. Like that's what's happening is that
they're saying, and we don't like this section of our population. Right. Right. It's really an
area of China. And so they're going after and they're grabbing all those guys. They're putting them
in and they're starving them to death. And there's, there's all kinds of human rights violations.
And they're putting them in these camps. You know, I mean, it's, so yeah, I mean,
there's nothing that we can do about it. Like normally if this was another country,
United States would go in there and fucking destroy them. Right. But it's China. So we don't do
anything because we complain. Like what do we complain a little bit? They're like, so what do
you, right? Do you want your, you know, do you want your abrollers and your Nikes and your cell
phones? Right. Exactly. We'd like that. Okay, well then shut up. Shut the fuck up United States.
Right. Right. So, you know, but the problem is at some point it become, it does become your problem.
And then you turn around and you go, well, wait a second, well, why didn't somebody say something,
you know, earlier? And you're like, well, because, you know, we were getting cell phones and we were
happy and we got to watch sitcoms and we're good, you know, we got TikTok. So, you know,
why complain that much? It's kind of, you know what it reminds me of? It's kind of like the,
the Holocaust. Like you, there were rumblings. Yeah, I always love it when you got a whole bunch
of people that will say, well, the United States didn't know anything about the Holocaust was going
on. But we did know we knew for that there were newspaper or there was tons of stuff where we
knew this was what was going on. But they were what they were concerned about was winning the war.
So, we're not going to put too much emphasis on that. That can wait. You know, we're not going
to push that. And this is, this is even prior to World War II. They just weren't put weren't
concerned about it. And so they're allowing it to happen. And it wasn't worth going to war over.
And they were executing these people. They're just kind of pushing these people around.
And it's their own people. And so what? And yeah, people are dying and some people are getting
starved to death. And that's where they, I mean, but I mean, so you've got the Holocaust is going
on in World War, prior to World War II. We didn't, we didn't do anything. Not only we're not doing
things like they held the Olympics, you know, that Hitler held the Olympics, we went in. We had,
Hitler was like Time Magazine's man of the year. What? Pull it up. Stop it. Add off Hitler.
Man of the year Time Magazine. Stop. When was it? That did not happen. Oh, I wish, I wish I was a
betting man. Pull this up now. I want to see this. There's no way. If this happened, I said,
I wish I was a betting man. If this ever happened, this had to have been scrubbed from the internet.
No, I don't know. It's there. How much? I'm not betting. Okay. Two cups of coffee. I'll bet you
two cups of coffee. Two cups of coffee. How about dinner? You're since you're paying for dinner
anyway. That's a Danny deal. Yeah. I'm paying for it anyway. Yeah.
Adolf Hitler Time Magazine person of the year, right? Yeah, man of the year. Man of the year.
Tie game. First quarter. Second quarter has just started. Seven, seven.
Listen, this guy. Cardinals, Packers are tied. This guy was elected. We're distracted by our
sports, our sports betting, our tick talk. We don't have time to worry about world domination,
okay? Oh, man. What am I, Frank Cumberdale?
Hitler Time Magazine of the year was not. That's not what it says. It's fake news,
man. Fake news. What are you with? What's on it? 1938.
The throat. Fact check. The claim. Hitler's selection as time man of the year shows why
media is not your friend. Time Magazine's person of the year franchise. Yeah, it is true. Oh,
it is true. Wow. The first person to appear on the cover was Charles Lindbergh in 1928 following
Adolf Hitler. A decade later, Adolf Hitler, man of the year, 1938. Nazi leader was man of the year
in 1938. No fucking way. Germany was great. They were doing great. They were taking names.
They were, they were, uh, manufacturing was great. It's a wonderful, it's a wonderful place.
Nobody cared. Who cared? Wow. Who is that? Is that a Khashoggi right there? A Jamal Khashoggi?
Yeah. No idea who that is. That's familiar. Yeah, definitely.
Wow. What about Saudi Arabia, bro? I mean, they're killing people in other countries,
cutting them up and taking the bodies out. Yeah. Jamal Khashoggi. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Is that who it
was? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. The reporter, right? The reporter, yeah. I think it was for the Washington
Post. What's he doing? He had, he had written a couple nasty articles about Saudi Arabia. Yeah,
about this one prince in particular. So, they invite him. Massama MBS. They invite him to the
embassy to fill out paperwork or do something. He wanted to travel or something. In Turkey. He was
in Turkey. Right. Goes in, never leaves. They chop him up. They have audio. They have all the audio.
Killed him, chopped him up and then walked the pieces like out, like walked him out like in bags
and stuff and dropped him off. And then they burned him in like a furnace or something at somebody's
house. You got some fucking nerve. Go stepping around over there talking all that mess and then.
This guy's heartless, bro. It's horrible. It's horrible. He's a, he's a, uh, you're talking
about killing people taking over the world. Who are you judging right now? This guy went over
there and talked shit about him and they fucking picked him up and they signed him. No, no, he didn't,
no, he didn't do that. He wrote some articles. He wrote some articles. He just wrote some articles.
But they, but the print, it was a print, right? Huh? It was a print or something.
Snowden just wrote a couple articles too. Yeah, but he's safe in Russia.
What about Julian Assange? Julian Assange. He's in, uh, he's in the UK right now.
He's on trial right now in the US is trying to get him extradited here.
And, uh, for releasing what? For releasing, for releasing footage of, of the drone strikes,
the fucking drone strikes on people that the US was fucking, right? So for, for showing that the
US was doing something that was like committing murder, right? Right. And so they're trying to
get him back here and throw him in jail. That's ridiculous for being a journalist, for being
a journalist, right? For exposing you for what you, what you shouldn't have been doing. Right.
Yeah, it's bad. And, uh, what else happened? The lawyer, the lawyer that, uh, that represented,
um, a bunch of people for, he, he represented tons of indigenous people against a lawsuit
against Chevron, I believe it was, um, for the, for a oil field spill where basically Chevron
had an oil spill, uh, that affected a bunch of like indigenous land and forestry in the United
States. And he, he fought against Chevron, uh, back in the early 1990s. Was this a young guy,
was he a young lawyer? Yeah. And then he just now, they just now they're like demonizing him.
He just got sentenced to fucking six months in prison for contempt, contempt of court.
Um, and it's insane. Like that's never happened. Fucking, uh, this guy, this guy literally just
represented people who lived on indigenous land, who got affected by an oil spill from Chevron.
And now he's going to prison for contempt of court for six months. Fucking, uh, Jeffrey Epstein
didn't even go to prison. He got a fucking sweetheart deal in Florida for fucking molesting kids
on his first go around. Yeah. And still fucked that up. And still fucked up. And that's how
sick he is. He couldn't even stop. It just shows, it just shows that a fucking American is run by
corporations and these corporations will get whatever the fuck they want. Did you read,
did you read the book, the Pelican, not the movie, but the, did you ever read the Pelican brief?
No, I haven't even heard of it. Oh, it was. I'm an idiot. I don't know anybody. No, it was,
and it was John Grisham. It was John, but it was before your time, but it was, it was basically
the, it was a, um, a law firm represented this, this, it was like an oil interest
and they wanted to go into the Everglades and drill for oil in the Everglades. But
because there were, there were Pelicans, the certain type of Pelican, and they were endangered,
they weren't going to be allowed to do it. They knew that their case was going up to
the Supreme court. Like they tried to do it. They got stopped by this young, by this young,
young, a young couple or like a young lawyer had stopped them, but he had won, like he'd won the
case and the case was going to be, be decided in the Supreme court, but they knew these two
Supreme court judges are a problem for us. They're going to vote for the Pelicans and we're not going
to be able to drill, but if they died and if they both ended up dying and there were two new, um,
uh, justices appointed that were in our favor, we'll win the, the Pelican that will run the,
we'll win the lawsuit and we'll be able to get billions of dollars in oil. We'll be able to
drill. So they actually, they actually assassinate two sitting Supreme court judges to, in order to
have these new judges placed in their place. Is this, it's a great book. When did this happen?
No, it didn't happen. It's just called the Pelican brief. It's, but I've been saying it's,
it's a whole corporate greed type thing. It's not a real thing. It's fiction, but
it's a great story. It's a great, but they made a movie out of it. Didn't tell Washington.
It actually would happen. Right. That's the whole thing is like, well, there's tons of stuff like
that. Like for instance, um, uh, for instance, Tom Clancy wrote a book called, uh, Splinter Cell.
Well, he wrote tons of them, but, but, uh, pretty sure it's also a book. Well, um, what was it?
What was it? Was it the, the debt of honor? It was debt of honor where there's a, a Japanese
terrorist that crashes a plane into Congress. Right. And then like 10 years later, you've
got people crashing planes into, you know, buildings. Like there's like things in these books
that, that were like semi-predicted prior to that. Like that was, that was this, a terrorist attack
was to use a plane filled with gasoline to crash into Congress, wipe out all of count cars. Instead,
these guys hit the World Trade Center, you know, whatever. When did this book come out?
I was like, it was about 10 years before 9-11. Wow. I mean, that's, you know, you always see some
dots here. Well, I don't, I'm not saying there's a connection. I'm just saying that a lot of times
these things are. Well, the 9-11 planes with those all, all of those planes were, they had flight
pass. They were going to Los Angeles. Yeah. So they were filled with, they were filled with fuel.
Full fuel. Yeah. Yeah. Unbelievable. Yeah. Whatever. Lots of stuff going on. But yeah. So I mean,
he predicted the whole, hey, did you ever read the book, Jennifer Government?
I've read like three books my whole life. Okay. Well, if you're get locked up for 10 or 12 years,
you're, you're, you're on here because you've read so many books and you're so sorry. Jennifer
Government's great. It's like in the future. I read, I read Go Dog Go, One Fish, Two Fish,
One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish. I read The Cookie Monster Cookie Book. I'll
have a few books I read every day. So in Jennifer Government, these Nike ends up doing what they
call guerrilla marketing, where they end up hyping up these shoes, saying that there's a limited
amount of the shoes. Like there's only, we're only producing 10,000 of them. They're going to have
500 here and 200 in this store. So people pack the stores, but they don't have 500. They have like
5,000. So by, they, they hype it up. And then what, what they do to make, to give the, the book or
the shoes, street cred, they hire people to kill the first four or five people that, that get the,
that end up getting the, the shoes. So they, they shoot them, steal the shoes, and that gives
this, that gives them street cred. So people want them even more, but they're saying they're limited
of maybe 10,000, but really there's like 200,000 or a million shoes. But people are so
pumped. Supreme. That's what they do. It's great. It's a great book.
And you have to pay the police to investigate the murders. So your, your family gets murdered. You
want, you, the person that killed your daughter, you want her found. So you refinance your house.
You have to pay the police to track the people down. Cause unless you can't pay for it, you,
you have to pay for crime for, for, uh, to pay for it. And it all comes down to the shoes they're
made in China. And the shoes actually are called, they're called, they're, I remember they were
called, um, mercuries and they were, they made them for like a dollar 75 a cents and they were
selling them for like 1500 or 1800 bucks. Yeah. The, uh, the rarity of it is what sells more hard,
the harder they already get, the more people want them. But the, the book has all these
supply and demand to any typical business. The book has all these crazy things. They have
these crazy things that are happening and they're happening. Like then it's like, that's not,
that's happening. This is happening. Like these are things that, yeah, it's called Jennifer
government. Hmm. I always thought they'd make a movie out of it. You should make that movie.
There's a lot of books that they should have made movies out of, but they won't because
this one was, you know, what's funny too, that you had a bar code like, oh no, Jennifer government
has like a, she has a bar code right here. Oh, and your surnames are whoever you work for. So if you
worked for Nike, then your name would be Danny Nike. Hmm. So everybody's named like, like this
guy works for the NRA. It's like his name's Matt NRA. Uh, he, um, you know, then you've got,
um, you know, uh, shunt, uh, Shane unemployed. That's how it is. Yeah. Right. So, you know,
concrete. Yeah. Exactly. That's, so that's what, and then when you change your job,
you get a new surname. Huh. The whole thing is insane. Oh, there are gangs of kids that are
like in a gang and they, Nike and McDonald's will pay you to tattoo their symbol or I'm sorry,
their emblem. Is it emblem? What would you call it? logo, logo, whatever on you. And so you're
basically with a gang, people are getting beat up because they're going into McDonald's and like,
you know, you McDonald's or Burger King, I'm going over here to McDonald's and then they jump
and they start beating the guy out. Check filet, bitch. Interesting. Matt, did you watch Squid Games?
No. And everybody told me I have to watch it and I don't, you know, I do like the concept.
He's, uh, the squid game director creator is beefing with LeBron James. Do you know who LeBron
James is? Yeah, I know who LeBron James is. He's beefing with the creator of Squid Games because,
LeBron said the ending was lame. He's what, okay, we got a flea flicker here. We're watching the
Packers game. LeBron said that the ending sucked. The guy should have gotten the plane went and saw
his daughter and this squid game guy like made some sort of statement is like, well, you, you
should remake the whole series and do your own ending. Then LeBron James, maybe, uh, you'd have,
you know, to another just going back and forth. Yeah, now that was all there was. It's funny.
Yeah. I don't know if there's anything else, but it's funny that it's like a, it's like an internet
beef now. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. What's going on? What are we doing? I'm pretty, I'm pretty drunk. Are you
good? Or is that pretty, I'm pretty, I'm pretty buzzed up drink very much. YouTube has got some
competition finally. Who's that Spotify? Why, what are they doing? What do you mean? So starting
today, every episode of this podcast, right? We'll be on Spotify. We'll be on, well, it's always been
on Spotify, but now you get the, all the video as well. Okay. So the video, so now Spotify is
rolling out video for podcasts. So if you have a video podcast on YouTube, it was only available
previously with audio on Spotify. Now Spotify gives podcasts the option to have video. Is it
monetized? Yeah, it's monetized. Yep. Yes. So Spotify gives, serves ads on your video, on your
podcasts now. So we have ads that are running on our Spotify episodes, and you get the video,
the same video get on YouTube, you get on Spotify on the concrete podcast. What about the, so YouTube
has got a little bit of competition now, which is a good thing because they've been, you know,
obviously it's a, it's a fucking giant tech monopoly with no one has, you know, any way of
competing in Spotify is a, I think it's a, it's a Beijing company. No, it's not Beijing. It'd be
funny if it was Beijing. It's a, it's a, it's a, where is it? Not Denmark, but with the other,
with the other Finland, not Finland, not Denmark, Norway, Sweden. I think it's a Swedish company.
Did you, I mean, not that that's not interesting. I think that is interesting. Yeah. So you should
be getting your video on Spotify now. I gotta, I gotta talk to Colby. Who's Colby? Colby is the
guy who does like everything for me. He does all the, he does, he shoots the videos, he puts
everything up. Where does he live? Uh, Lakeland. Lakeland? Lakeland. Yeah. Well, about an hour drive,
it's an hour drive. So he comes over every two weeks and we shoot videos for a whole day and then
we put him up. Every two weeks he comes over? Sometimes, sometimes every week, well not very
often. He's usually pretty on average basically about, about every two weeks. Maybe he might come
two weeks in a row, but typically we're, we're trying to get it down. So there's every two weeks.
But did you hear about the YouTube that they're supposed to be rolling out? Did you hear it's,
is it the thanks button or the appreciation button? They used to call it the applause button. Now
they're calling it the appreciation button. Did you hear that? No. So they want to add a separate,
an, an additional button. So you have the thumbs up, the thumbs down, and then you can share your
video. They have another one that they're rolling out right now. Some, some channels already have it
where you can, you can click on it and you can donate money. So it's already connected. You can
donate like $3.50. Then it's like. Oh yeah, on live streams and shit. No, no. This is regular. Oh,
really? So if they're just watching this video and somebody goes, man, that's a good video,
I'm going to go ahead and give Danny. Give him a tip. Just like a tip. Boom. But it goes like an
increments. It's like $3.90, $7, $12, $20, $2 and shit. I don't, the numbers are weird.
49, like up to like 49 bucks or 50 bucks. Yeah. Wow. Like I would love that.
Because two bucks is nothing. Yeah. The doctor would be like. The doctor knows how to tip. The
doctor is a tipper. Yeah, he is. I told you he came here with the green, with the Lamborghini.
We went out to, bro. Yeah. You know, he, he, remember he was, he was like, come on, bro,
you want to go drive the, come on, drive that. I was like, I don't want to drive the car. You
rented it? Yeah, he rented it. You didn't want to drive it? There's, I mean, obviously, I did
want to drive it. I, but I didn't. You didn't drive it? No, because I drive that car and then I
got to get back in my car and feel like I was driving the, the. Yeah, but at least you did it.
Yeah. The Lamborghinis, I haven't really that, that like, that exciting anymore because the
Tesla's, the Tesla's smoke Lamborghinis now. I don't care. It's still cool as fuck. Yeah,
that's cool. You're saying you're driving Lamborghini. It's like a piece of art. It's
like driving a Model E. Right. It was amazing. I mean, just seeing the car, I mean, he got,
listen, he's, he was funny. Yeah, but the Tesla's fucking smoke Lamborghinis now.
Really? Any of the Tesla's. Yeah, off the line, they'll fucking, they, they, they're zero to 60s
way faster than a Lambo. They were tops. They look like a Lambo though. That's right. They don't,
they don't quite look like a Lambo. That's true. Yeah. Yeah, we're getting, my, my wife's getting
the new Tesla Model X. I don't even know what that is. It's the one with the fucking Gullwings.
The one with the back wings. The C Gullwings. The C Gullwings. The Gullwings. Is it, is it a coupe?
No, it's the SUV, the biggest one they have. Oh, it's a four door. It's a four door.
An SUV. I didn't even know they had an SUV. It's like a mid-sized SUV. It's like a hatchback. It
looks like a hatchback kind of, but it's the biggest Tesla that's currently available. And
it's got the back wings that are like Gullwings that come up. Cool. Bad ass. You know, it's faster
than a Lambo. Running out of time, Matt. I'm not running out of time, but I just, I mean,
how long is this podcast? Like, are we running out of stuff? What are we doing? Well, you only
got here at eight and it's 930. So I got here at 740. Should we wrap it up? I mean, you got some,
what else do you want to talk about? I'm ready to go. Let's keep talking. Facebook just changed
their name to, what are you doing? Metta. Metta. No, they didn't. Yes. They just changed their name
to Metta. What are you talking about? Facebook changed their name to Metta because pull up this
video of Elon Musk talking, Aiden. God damn it. Let me change the, God damn it. God damn it, Aiden.
PC, Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg just got on YouTube, got on the internet and said he's
changed the name of Facebook because Facebook has such as bad rap of just being like this.
Like that's got a full everybody? That's the Tesla. That's the Tesla I got right there.
Ooh, look at the back doors.
Pretty cool. No Lambo. No Lambo. Anyways, Facebook's now called Metta.
You got to show Matt the video. Am I believing this? You got to show Matt the video because Facebook
is so synonymous for like right now they have such as this bad. Like people are going to be like,
oh, this is no. It's going to help. We'll watch Mark Zuckerberg. Mark Zuckerberg's got a great sales
pitch for it. He's saying, you know, we're all about expanding the metaverse. Watch this shit,
bro. Watch this. He's so creepy.
This is going to get memed so hard.
Bro, talk about it. A total not connect. Like, I mean, he should have hired somebody for this.
Yeah. What the fuck did he do this? Look at his surfboard in the background.
Yeah. The surfboard makes it more human.
He looks like an avatar. His hair looks like it's painted on.
He's trying to create like a virtual reality social media platform.
Whatever you find most beautiful.
Hey, are you coming? Yeah, I just came and add in one second.
China's taken over. Look at this.
Hey, Mark.
I'm playing poker. Who made this place? You did.
Oh, this is, this is so bad.
Shane, would you play this poker match right here?
Why? You wouldn't shoot dice with those people?
This is called the metaverse, Matt Cox.
So this is the metaverse, but he's not changing Facebook.
They're trying to purge the boomers. They're changing the name from Facebook.
Because it's full of boomers and it's full of like, okay, so they're trying to,
they're trying to update it. There's a rebrand because Facebook's
got this bad rap right now in the media for being a fucking shitty company.
Look at the vice headlines. Vice is objective.
He wants to make the world an NFT.
He looks fake.
Yeah, he does.
This is like me reading my, my, my stories. Like, I don't do it because I'm not good at it.
He looks like he's been hitting the iron neck.
See, does he have the iron neck?
Yeah, he's probably a robot.
Packers up 10-7.
Woo!
You did, you, you, you interviewed the guy that wrote social media, right?
Social network.
Social network.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And Bitcoin billionaires.
Right.
He fucked over those two guys, the Winklevoss twins.
Yeah.
He basically paid them off like a couple billion dollars.
They invested it all in Bitcoin and now they're fucking Bitcoin billionaires.
Trillionaires.
Yeah, so it's now called Meta.
What are your thoughts on that, Matt Cox?
Are you joining?
I don't know.
This is going to be a part of Facebook.
Sounds like I already joined.
You already joined?
You're already in.
If you already remember Facebook, probably, I'm pretty sure.
You're killing me with this.
Look, I still have a Facebook app.
Still says Facebook.
You still use Facebook.
Facebook because you're a boomer.
You and Shane don't use Facebook.
No, you use Meta?
So it didn't change?
I use Facebook.
I use Facebook for the marketplace.
Facebook marketplace, where you buy shit locally.
It's like the local Craigslist.
Facebook marketplace has got to be crushing Craigslist, bro.
No, bro.
My Wi-Fi stuff on Facebook marketplace keeps it for a year,
sells it a year later for more than what you bought it for.
Nice.
It's pretty insane.
Well, I mean, I mean, I already didn't shut this shit off.
I still shut this motherfucker off.
I still have Facebook.
So how did they change the name?
They just haven't done it yet?
Soon they're going to be, yeah, they're going to roll out the name change.
They changed the fucking sign in front of their fucking headquarters on Hacker Boulevard.
And, well, they got to think there's such a bad rap in the media and in the world lately
for being just such a shithole company as far as like disinformation,
their algorithms, like keeping people in these echo chambers and creating all this,
like, division when it comes to some China shit, when it comes to elections.
And the guys working at Facebook's jumping out the fucking window.
They put nets up.
No, it's not like that with Facebook, trust me.
And they have these two.
They have the fucking algorithms that keep people in their echo chambers.
And, yeah, they just have a bad rap.
So I think part of changing, part of the reason they're changing it in Meta.
Echo chambers, what did you say?
Echo chambers.
Gas chambers.
No.
No, that's mass translation of it.
Yeah, echo chambers.
That's because the algorithms, the way they work is they keep you in echo chambers.
So if you're on Facebook and you're Matt Cox and you're on there and you fucking hate liberals
or you hate Donald Trump, right, you're going to keep clicking on all these articles and watching,
looking at all these memes about fucking anti-Trump and why Trump sucks.
And they're going to, they see you hate that.
They feed you what you want.
They're going to keep feeding you that stuff and keep, they're not going to feed you any sort of
varying opinions.
I kind of assume that was, I kind of assume that.
Right, of course.
That's why with, like, it's obvious.
It's obvious.
Right.
And they're, they're doing it the way, that's how they make more money because you're going to,
they know what you're going to click on.
They're not going to feed you any sort of alternative opinions,
any sort of, anything that pushes back on what you already believe.
So, obviously, have you seen the documentary on Netflix called The Social Dilemma?
Social Dilemma?
You got to watch it.
I haven't watched it, but I saw all this.
It's all about, it's all about the algorithms on social media and how basically the social
media algorithms that Facebook created and now is on Instagram and Twitter and everywhere else,
that these algorithms are generated, they're there to make more money for these companies.
They make more money because people click on more shit, right?
And you feed the people that, if I want you to click on shit, I'm going to give you shit that
you like.
I'm not going to give you anything else that you don't like.
Thank you.
And that makes more people, it creates more division and divide in the country.
And then you have companies in Russia that are like these meme factories.
Like, I always thought that Instagram page called this typical liberal was one of them.
But it's basically like, it's called the typical liberal and it's an Instagram page that just
creates memes shitting on left shit or Joe Biden or any kind of thing.
It's all about like, they show people shooting machine guns and showing them like America,
machine guns and Joe Biden's a dumb ass and shit on him.
And it's just like all cow, it all just panders to this right wing ideology.
And there's companies in Russia that create these memes, that serve them to Facebook and
Instagram and create this echo chamber that just gets people to fucking fester on these
ideologies and on these memes and all on these links on these articles.
What's created and that's what's created all this divide going on in our culture right now.
And it's basically like it's separating America.
See that, but I don't know.
I can see that.
But it's creating chaos in America.
Right.
It's a slow burn.
Like you said, Russia and China, they're playing the long term game.
Yeah.
Well, I said China, but I yeah.
Russia and China.
And that's the shit that creates like the whole QAnon.
You know what QAnon is?
Yeah.
The Q, I just had that guy on the podcast two days ago, the guy who made that documentary
on HBO called Q into the Storm.
And he's in QAnon?
No, he did a documentary on the QAnon conspiracy and how that like culminated in the
January 6th attack on the Capitol.
Did you?
And the guy with the fucking horn, the Q shaman, the guy that was sitting in the desk
in the Capitol.
Yeah, yeah.
Did you, did you release it yet?
I didn't see it.
No, no, I haven't released it yet.
I just recorded it a couple of days ago.
I'm not going to, I'm actually not going to release it like late November because his
documentary is going to be released like wider than.
You're going to do it simultaneously to help?
Yeah.
It's already on HBO, but it's going to be on like a lot more platforms late, late November.
But that was a fucking crazy thing.
Like, like there's these, there's these, these things, these chans, they're called chans on
the internet.
Like where there was like four Chan, eight Chan now it's called eight Coon.
With like these, like these message boards where people remain anonymous and you can
post whatever the fuck you want.
They don't collect any of your data.
You're completely anonymous.
And it's like the fucking, it's just a hellhole on the internet where people can post these
photos, videos, the most fucked up shit, like murders and there's the fucking Hitler
frogs and everything.
And these chans.
Why did you point at me when you said Hitler frogs?
What is a Hitler frog?
You ever seen the fucking Pepe, Pepe the frog meme with the fucking swastika armband?
No, I think I have seen that.
Yeah.
And um, and these chans are where this, this Q thing started on these, on eight Chan.
And um, he just does a deep dive into this thing and finds out like who, like if he goes,
he gets like in beds with this guy, this kid, uh, who lives in Japan who started eight Chan.
And it's a charge, right?
Here we go.
And he is his basic, his basic, I don't want to like spoil the whole documentary to fucking
the phenomenal documentary and it shows, it explains like the erosion of privacy on social
media and how it's created all this stuff.
And uh, the guy essentially who created eight Chan, who lives in Japan, right?
Who is in, who is Q, like he, after doing his documentary, he has come to the conclusion
that this guy is the main guy that nobody really knows who it is.
Who is claiming to be Q.
This guy is now running for fucking, uh, Congress in, uh, Arizona.
Nice.
It's fucking crazy shit, bro.
He's infiltrating.
Q into the storm.
He's taking over.
You got to watch the documentary.
It's fucking insane.
Yeah, I do.
I need to watch a lot of documentaries.
There's like, I've got like four documentaries that are on a list of, I've been to people,
I've got to watch this, you got to watch this, you got to watch that.
And I do, I need to do it when, like when I paint, I need to turn on documentary that way.
I can paint and listen to the documentary.
Yeah.
I just don't, I've just been going non-stop for the last like week or two.
How do you, what do you listen to when you paint typically?
You listen to music?
No, I typically listen to documentaries, but like, I like, like World War II documentaries, or
I feel like I was happier when I never listened to podcasts or books or documentaries.
I feel like I was, it was a better life when I just listened to music and fucking didn't think.
You know, when I was dumber, less educated, and just like listening to music and like
vibing to music and just only cared about surfing and skating, I feel like life was better.
I mean, it probably, that probably was better.
Yeah, that sounds better.
It probably does.
Yeah, that's nice.
And you know, you don't really, yeah, concerned about anything.
I was more creative.
You know, I was, I, you know, you, I was looking at those commercials you were sending me.
Oh yeah.
That you did like commercials.
I was like, this is funny because this is like, this is like professional quality,
but with a real twist on everything.
Everything has, everything has is comical.
Like almost everything about, every one of those commercials was comical.
And I was like, but they were done, but, but they weren't done like in a, in a,
in a chintzy kind of way.
Like it wasn't like a candy kind of, you know, like a, a half ass commercial.
They were all like, the production was really good, but they were all comical.
Everything had a comical edge to it.
Right.
It was funny.
So that's what I used to love doing.
That's all I used to do is make those kind of videos.
What are you, what are you doing now though?
You, you're all your stuff with you.
I just do these podcasts, bro.
That's all I do.
No, see, that's what I have.
See, that's the kind of thing you say.
And that's what I thought was happening.
Remember we talked about it earlier?
You were saying that like the, all the media, all the other advertising stuff was blowing up.
You were saying you were doing a whole bunch of other stuff.
And I was like, I am, I am running.
I have a, we haven't, I have an ad agency as well.
I have, I mean, the only thing I do is this podcast.
And then I run ad, I run an advertising agency for various companies,
the startup companies and brands and shit like that.
And that takes up a lot of fucking time.
Right.
Right.
That's, and it was like a year ago or something that I, when COVID had hit,
and we did a podcast.
And I remember that, that Shane had said something along the lines of, I was like,
like we were talking about COVID or something, it was something about COVID or something.
Somehow or another, I got the impression because I talked to you.
I didn't talk to Danny.
We were talking about COVID and just, you know, this is, and it's craziness and this and that.
And you had said something like, like something along the lines of like,
yeah, Danny, Danny's, I don't want to say hit hard or Danny, Danny lost some,
or Danny lost like a deal or two or something like that because of COVID.
You motherfucker.
But well, I'm just, like I said, I'm not positive, but I remember because you had said
something and in my mind, whatever it was you said made me think, oh, wow, like all the,
these people he's doing advertising work for, like, right, like they're not,
they're not advertising or maybe they're closing or like the, the, the, the car dealership isn't
open so we don't need a commercial this, you know, this or whatever it was.
I don't, I don't do work for, I don't do like one-off jobs for like car dealerships.
All my, all my fucking.
You're being specific.
I'm saying, I don't remember whatever it was.
I remember thinking, oh man.
Of course I'm being specific.
Why wouldn't I be specific?
No, I'm, you're being specific.
I'm saying, I don't remember exactly what it was, but whatever.
I do remember talking, talking to Shane and he said something that had me thinking, oh man,
Danny's like in a jam, like, oh, that's, that's messed up.
Jammed up.
Yeah.
Because I thought of COVID.
But then when we talked and I was on the way here, you were like, bro, what,
you had said something about the podcast or something.
I was like, oh man, I'm, why haven't you put in, you were like,
why haven't you done any podcast lately?
And you were like, bro, I'm so busy doing this and this and this.
And I was like, I thought you weren't doing well.
And you were like, you were like, why do you think that?
I was like, well, Shane had something said something like a year ago.
You got loose lips.
Nice to talk shit about people.
He wasn't talking shit.
He just happened to, you're turning this into something.
Anyway, but I just remember thinking something had happened.
I was way off because you said you've been kicking ass ever since.
And whatever it was, I mess of misunderstood.
I don't remember what you said.
But I remember, in my mind, you weren't doing, like you were only doing the podcast.
But obviously that's not what happened.
So I was way off on that.
Not at all.
The advertising shit's taken off like 10 times.
I don't remember what you said, but I got something from you that was like,
I was like, oh man, that's too bad.
Like he must be focusing more on the podcast.
Yeah.
I wish I was.
I should be focusing on the podcast.
Yeah, you said this is fun.
This is way more fun.
Yeah.
But our time has run out, Matt Cox.
And my back, this chair that is good for your back is killing me.
Why is it killing you?
The chair's fucked.
It's not.
It's a 900 dollar chair.
I wouldn't pay fucking 90 for that chair.
Like maybe you have to sit on it in a certain way or something.
We gotta go back to the game.
To lean back or something.
Yeah, the chair's wet.
It doesn't, it hurts my back.
I can't, and I'm hunching forward and it's like, it's not a good situation.
Why?
It's a piece of shit.
Because it hurts my back.
I think it's a nice chair.
It feels good to me.
It makes your posture better.
Imagine if you were sitting in his chair.
People would think you were like five foot if you sat in his chair.
He's hunching, he's sitting down, he's sure.
He's the goddamn hunchback of Seminole over here.
You're the tallest one here.
He's a six foot three hunchback.
What are we doing?
We're done.
Tell everybody where we can watch your new podcast.
Where can we watch the new Matt Cox Stuber podcast?
I really just need people to subscribe and send me strippers.
Nice.
Send me strippers.
Subscribe and send me strippers.
