What's up Eric Wargo, just glad to be here. Good. I'm glad to have you excited. I'm ready
to talk about time travel. How did you get interested in time travel and this idea of
nonlinear time? And by the way, your book time loops is amazing and it's linked below
people who want to go check it out on Amazon. Cool. Yeah. How did I get interested in it?
It's a long, it's a loopy story, actually, and actually it begins with a UFO sighting.
Oh, wow. Perfect. Yeah. It's these topics, you know, they all touch and contact in some
way as my friend Jeffrey Kripal always emphasizes. I know you had him on the show recently. Yes.
So yeah, this was in 2009. Well, let me back up a little bit. I mean, I'd always had esoteric
interests and I'd, you know, at that point, I think I was sort of into Carl Jung and stuff
like that. But in 2009, I saw a UFO over the Philadelphia Art Museum, oddly enough, on
July 4th in the evening before the fireworks had started. And it wasn't anything up close
and personal. It was just some like orange orbs sort of dancing in the sky. It was just
very weird and I tried to film it with a flip cam, one of those flip cams that they used
to sell and it didn't come out. But, you know, it was like, what? You know, I don't know
if I can swear on you. Yeah, you can say what the f***. And next day, I got online and saw
that there were like reports, people who saw the same thing in the same part of the country
that night. And so I made a report to MUFON and all that. And like at that point, I didn't really
know much about the UFO topic. So I started, you know, started reading about it. You know,
I thought, wow, this is really interesting. And I didn't, I had no idea that there were
like serious people who actually study UFOs, you know, but I quickly discovered names like,
you know, Richard Dolan and read his books. And of course, you discover Jacques Valais when you
start going down this path. And I was like writing kind of Godfather of UFOs. And I was like,
right, I had a blog at that point, but it didn't really have much focus. And I started writing
about UFOs. And, you know, at that point, like any newbie, I thought, oh, it's extraterrestrials and
stuff. But, you know, you start to read these intelligent writers on the topic of
ufology and especially Jacques Valais. And you realize that this topic, you know,
the topic of psychic phenomena comes up a lot. Now, I was a scientifically trained person. I have a
degree in anthropology and my parents were psychologists and I sort of grew up with the
sciences. And I didn't really have any problem with UFOs, but I had a big problem with ESP.
Okay, like for scientists and especially psychologists, scientific psychologists
are incredibly hostile to the idea of psychic phenomena of any kind. They just think it's
pseudoscience. And, and that was my assumption at that point, you know. So I'm reading, so I'm
having a bit of cognitive dissonance, honestly, I'm reading this, this very intelligent, you know,
literature on UFOs. And, but, and by very smart people and scientists like Jacques Valais,
who are also saying, look, there's, you know, people who, you know, experience,
you know, UFO encounters, you know, they have precognitive dreams, they have, you know,
there's the psychic phenomena too, that you have to take seriously. And he, he was, you know,
he was also a part of that Stanford Research Institute work on remote viewing and, and he was
Jacques was, he was not directly part of it, but he was friends with the, they, his office was
like one floor up, I think, from, from the office of, you know, how put off and those people who
were studying ESP and remote viewing. So, you know, he knew all those, those guys and they all hung
out together and shared ideas. And so he became kind of informally a part of that. And he was
friends with Ingo Swan and Ingo Swan trained him in remote viewing. Anyway, so he was writing
about these topics as well as UFOs. And, and like I said, this was like real cognitive dissonance
for me. I didn't know anything about the ESP research. And, but I, I felt I had to do my due
diligence in, in sort of going down that rabbit hole, you know, like what's, what's, you know,
what's really going on here? And is there anything to this subject? And quickly discovered that
there was a lot, you know, there's, there's a centuries worth almost now of, of solid scientific,
you know, laboratory research, showing the reality of ESP phenomena.
And, oh, laboratory research, laboratory research. And, and especially precognition
research. Now, so I was, you know, I was immersed in all this stuff. And then in 2011,
a paper, so, okay, I was working as, as an editorial director for a scientific psychology
organization in Washington, DC. And this paper crossed my desk, which was like, it was a draft
of a paper that our rival scientific, our rival psychology organization was about to publish.
And this was by a, an eminent personality psychologist named Daryl Bem. I don't know
if you've heard his name, but he, very prominent guy in the field of psychology, very well respected.
But he had spent like 10 years basically, in the early 2000s, running a series of big experiments
on precognition, or specifically what he called, and what the field calls, pre-sentiment. That's
the idea of, of responding or presponding to something that's about to happen. Okay. Or
some stimulus that's about to occur. And what he did was he put large, he would, he would,
these were big studies. He wanted this to be, you know, he wanted to have enough people that
there would be significant statistical significance in these studies. And they were relatively simple,
like paradigms, because he wanted other laboratories to be able to replicate these things.
But so what he'd do was, was he would put Cornell University undergraduates
in these typical psychology type experiments, but where he'd invert the order of stimulus and
response. So in his most famous experiment, he had like a student sit in front of a computer screen
and try to guess which of two curtains on the screen had a picture behind it. Okay.
Now, it was randomly determined after the mouse, after they would make their mouse click, which
curtain had the picture. So there wasn't actually already a picture behind the, the curtains. But
anyway, now you'd think that they would be accurate 50% of the time, which is exactly what he found
when the picture that would be revealed was boring. Okay. Just a boring like beach scene or
something like that. But when the picture was erotic, okay, they were accurate more than 50%,
which meant that somehow, you know, there was, there was a reward there and they were
presponding to that reward by picking the curtain with the erotic picture more than they
should have been able to do. Okay. And this is mind blowing. So they knew that the picture was
going to be erotic. They didn't know, but they're guessing and, and they think that they're just
guessing randomly, but somehow they had, they had a hunch that the picture would be behind,
you know, one, a certain curtain. Okay. Okay. So that was his most famous finding and he actually
did multiple experiments, variations of these, these things. There was another one
where he gave students a word list. All right. This was a tip. This is a typical kind of,
a typical kind of memory experiment. You might give participants a word list
and then give them a second, like refresher on certain of those words and then test them.
Okay. And see which words they remember. All right. Or they'll try, you'll try to ask them,
like, what are the words that you saw on that list? And they would, they would, you know,
they'd be more accurate with the words that they got a refresher on, or I'm not saying,
or typically wouldn't be a refresher. They'd had, they'd do some other kind of task in which they
were kind of subliminally primed with certain of those words. And anyway, they would, they would
pick out those words more than they would on the other words. Okay. Well, he reversed that.
So he gave the, the, the participants a word list and then he tested them on, you know, he said,
now can you please tell me the words you saw on that list that we showed you, you know,
a half hour ago or whatever. And then after the test, he would give them a refresher
on certain of those words. And again, they did better on the words that they got the refresher
on later. Whoa. Yeah. So he called this retroactive facilitation of recall as the word that he used
for this. Anyway, so he took a lot of basic psychology paradigms, but just flipped them in
that way. And he got statistically significant results in I think eight of the nine experiments.
Um, so this was like, like what again, what the is going on here? Um, so, you know, he,
he submitted this to a major, a major journal and the, and it went through peer review to peer,
you know, peer review cannot find a problem with it, but the editors like attached a note like
saying, you know, we can't, we have a responsibility to publish this because it went through peer review,
but we can't like, we can't explain this. It goes against all of our beliefs and so on. So
they even had to like attach a disclaimer essentially to this article. Wow. All right.
Anyway, this, this, it's, where was it? Was it published on it in a journal or something? Yeah,
the journal of, I'm forgetting the name of the journal. It's like one of the top ranked journals
really in psychology. How could we search it? Just type in feeling the future.
Feeling the future. Yeah. Daryl Bam, B-E-M is his, his last name. Feeling the future. It's very
famous now. Okay. And, and of course, there's like a million people trying to debunk it, you know,
if you go on Wikipedia, they're, it's like, you know, there's, there are
cod rays of people who just debunk, you know, controversial.
Feeling the future. Experimental evidence for anomalous retroactive influences on cognition
and effect. Wow. I have something else here that's like, it's like a,
oh, this is him, Daryl. This is the same. Yeah. It's like, this is a list of whole bunch of like
top like 90 articles and Daryls is one of them. What was the year again that it was published?
2011. And then he subsequently, with some colleagues, published a kind of meta analysis
of a bunch of other laboratories that then who had mostly replicated his findings. So like
something, something like 80 or 90 separate replications, most of which got the results he got.
And anyway, so, you know, this is just one corner of the topic of precognition that I,
I have since immersed myself in for the last decade and a half.
Have there been any other studies done since then?
Yeah. There's a lot, a lot of people are doing this work around the world. No,
I won't say a lot. Some people have. There are a few handful of researchers in neuroscience
that are open-minded enough to study this stuff, but no one can get the funding necessarily to,
that's necessary to do, to do, you know, a big major study on this because,
because, you know, no one in the big funding institutes are gonna like take it seriously
because there's so much, so much resistance to this topic. Like, you know, you find that with
any paranormal topic, you know, we're, I think things, I hope things are going to change
because I think, honestly, I think the way the UFO topic has opened up in the last few years,
I think this may help some of these other topics. Now, I honestly have come to believe that there's
no intrinsic connection between UFOs and, you know, ESP necessarily, but the fact that all
these things are sort of stigmatized in the same way and kind of get lumped together under the
heading of the paranormal, you know, helps. I think what's happening in the UFO scene right now
hopefully will kind of help move, move things in the, in the realm of ESP research. So,
but okay, so that's, that's part of the story. I'm, in the end, I'm not honestly that interested
in the scientific research because again, right now it's like little studies and it's easy to
dismiss them. But, you know, one thing, if you start reading about precognition at all, you
realize that most people experience this in dreams. All right. And a lot of interesting things have
been written over the last century about precognitive dreams. And the first was an aviation engineer
in the very early years of flight in England. It was a guy named J.W. Dunn, John William Dunn.
And he had had had precognitive dreams since childhood. And he was fascinated by this topic.
And he sort of brought his kind of engineer's mind to thinking about how it worked. And he early on
figured out that if he was going to study this, he had to A, be diligent about recording his
dreams and, and then really trying to figure out what was going on with these dreams where, you
know, he would have a dream like one night and then two days later the thing he dreamed would,
in some way, come true. And so he worked on this problem sort of as a sideline to his main work
in aeronautical engineering for, you know, a couple of decades and published a book in 1927
called An Experiment with Time. And this book is fascinating. The first half of it is just
tons of examples of his own precognitive dreams. You know, here's the dream and here's what happened
two days later or here's what I read in the newspaper, you know, three days later. I mean,
most of his dreams turned out to be about things he was going to read in the media.
And, and then the second half of the book, most people don't even read the second half because
it's kind of this, he goes into theories of, of, of time and developed his own theory of time based
on Einstein and stuff like that. It's very, it's very complicated and, and that's it. That's the
book. That's the book. An experiment with time. Yep. And, but it's a really compelling book and it
was actually super influential on writers and intellectuals in the sort of middle years of
the century. So it was in the 20, yeah, 27. Published in 27, then it went through a lot of
reprintings over the next decade or so. And a lot of writers at the time, like C.S. Lewis,
J.R.R. Tolkien, nobody knows that. I mean, he was, he, J.R.R. Tolkien was super influenced by
this book on precognitive dreams and the, the nonlinear nature of time. Yeah. In fact, the
elven races in Tolkien's stories, he developed this whole kind of way in which the elves live in
this kind of nonlinear time. And he was, it was all based on this book about precognitive dreams
by J.R.W. Dunn. T.S. Elves. The elves, I mean, that's the Tolkien's novels. Oh, they're all about
elves. Well, I mean, the elves are like this, these immortals that, that, that inhabit Middle
Earth. And, and they're, and they have this, because they're immortal, they have this totally
different sense of time than humans do. And they live sort of outside of time.
Sounds fascinating. Yeah. I mean, his, his, his works are amazing. But it was based,
you know, this, this aspect of their culture in Tolkien's writings was based on
this theory of precognition and precognitive dreams that, that Dunn came up with. T.S.
Eliot is another one who was very influenced by Dunn. Vladimir Nabokov is another one. In
fact, Vladimir Nabokov, okay, let me say Dunn. Is it Vladimir Nabokov, is that a filmmaker?
No, the novelist, Russian, Russian-American. Oh, okay, gotcha, gotcha.
This book, an experiment with time was kind of an early example of citizen science,
okay, because he was saying, look, this happens in my dreams, it happens in the dreams of
the people I know, but try it yourself. Okay, you know, the only way we're gonna
know if this is real is if you, you know, if you can find it happening in your own life.
So he had a few sort of recommendations for readers to, you know, how to record their dreams
and look for examples of precognition in them. So he was inviting people to do this.
Vladimir Nabokov, in the, I guess in the 50s, came across Dunn's book
and tried it and he got positive results. He had, you know, he tried it for a month
and he got several dreams that were like very exactly about things he would see on TV the next
day. Now he was already interested, Nabokov was already interested in precognition because he had
had like an incredible precognitive dream and I'll just tell you about that. He, this, the dream
actually was when he was, I think 17 and he was still in Russia outside St. Petersburg and his
uncle Vasily died and this was a wealthy family and Vasily left him, he's like 17 and his uncle
leaves him this huge estate outside of St. Petersburg. So suddenly this 17 year old
poet and, you know, he's butterfly collector and stuff, you know, he's suddenly a rich man,
you know, a really rich man. He's got, he's set for life. He's got this estate and everything.
Okay. Well, a year later, all that is washed away by the Russian revolution. Okay. It's like the,
all the elite, the titled elite in Russia are sent in exile and their wealth is confiscated and
whatnot. So his family had to emigrate, but around this time he had a dream. His uncle Vasily,
his dead uncle Vasily, appears to him in this dream and says, I will return to you as Harry and
Kuvirkin. Harry and Kuvirkin. Okay. Well, whatever, what does that mean, dream mean? Who knows?
Okay. He interpreted that, those names as circus performers. Kuvirok in Russian means
somersault. So he somehow associated these with circus performers, but he didn't know what it meant.
Anyway. Okay. So fast forward, I think, try my math maybe off, like more than 40 years, I believe.
And he's now living as an, as a English professor at Cornell University,
not a rich man, you know, making a modest living as a, as an English professor and novelist. Okay.
And he's just written, I'm going to have to adjust this. Yeah. Yeah. Take your time.
He's just, I know you said you like new tropics. These are great. Oh, okay. Super brain boosters,
man. Oh, awesome. Well, these are, they're a little new tropic shots. There's like super,
they boost your energy and mental. It's like amazing. It's called magic mind. I can always
use a magic mind. Yeah, me too. Anyway, so he has just written that, not that his novel Lolita,
his most famous novel, and he suddenly gets word. In fact, I think he reads, oh yeah,
friend calls him up, a fellow professor calls him up and he says, have you read the New York Times
today? And there's an article in New York Times that, or maybe it's not New York Times, in some,
in some paper, there's an article that, that Harris and Kubrick Pictures, that's Stanley
Kubrick's production company, has just purchased the rights to Lolita for this like massive sum.
It was like $150,000 at that point, which was in today's money would be, you know, huge.
And so he basically learned that he was now a rich man. And indeed, Vasily, his wealthy benefactor,
had come back to him as Harry and Kuvirkin. Kuvirkin in, if it's anglicized, would be Kubrick.
Really? Yeah. So, but it sounds amazing, but this happens all the time. There's so many,
so many, so many examples of this. And if you do what I call precognitive dream work,
we can talk about that a little bit if you want, it's essentially a variant of what
J.W. Dunn recommended. So, J.W. Dunn, he came up with a protocol.
He came up with a protocol. A protocol, right. Yeah.
So, you could have precognitive dreams, right? Now, not all dreams are precognitive though.
Well, let's talk about that. Okay. He came up with a protocol not to have
precognitive dreams, but to notice, to notice precognitive dreams. His presumption, and it's
one that I agree with, is that, first of all, we're all dreaming all through the night, you know,
we have, and they flow one to the other. So, it's hard to say how many, you know,
people have tried to quantify how many dreams you have in a night, but you're dreaming
throughout the night, not just in the REM sleep periods, but even in the deeper
non-REM sleep periods, you are dreaming. And we can talk about what contemporary
sleep scientists say about dreams and what their function is and so on. But
his argument was that, Dunn's argument was that, well,
dreams are reaching into the future, reaching into our future, as well as into our past.
Reaching into our memories and reaching into the future somehow to create these
dream scenes. Now, this was a time when Sigmund Freud was very influential.
Everyone was, well, not everyone, but his ideas about dreams that he had written about right
at the turn of the century, were that dreams were the disguised, the symbolically disguised
fulfillment of repressed wishes. That's Freud's dream theory in a nutshell.
So J.W. Dunn sort of fit his theory into Freud's by saying, well, Freud would say that we're
reaching into our past. I mean, our dreams are full of things from our past, basically,
but jumbled up and rearranged. Freud would say that we are expressing our repressed wishes
in this disguised fashion, using these symbols and using things drawn from our past memories,
but juxtaposed in new ways. Dunn accepted that basic thesis but said, well, instead of just
reaching into our past, they're reaching into our future. And so some of the things that
happened in our dreams are actually things that haven't happened to us yet. So I lost my train
of thought. So Freud's basic idea was that dreams were wishes of the subconscious mind,
some desires that we're not aware of consciously, but that exist deep down within us. And Dunn kind
of took this and said, this somehow has to do with the future. What does it have to do?
What he said was that, like I said, he accepted the idea that dreams are our wishes that are
disguised somehow. But he's saying that the disguises are built from events that are happening
in our future as well as the past. Now, we can move beyond that and say that I think that he
kind of got it backwards. And what I argue in my books, my book on dreams and in my first book,
Timelapse, is that in fact, Freud was wrong about the function of dreams that they don't have to do
with repressed wishes, that the function really is precognition, that we are reaching into our
future and it's helping as a guidance system to the individual and that we're using materials from
our past to help represent those future thoughts and future experiences. We're using experiences
from our past. Memories. Memories from our past to process things, events that are going to happen.
To represent, like imagine a dream is like a little diorama or like a little
tableau or whatever. And you take this old friend and this old co-worker and your mom
and stuff like that and put them together like little action figures and then like a tableau and
make them do things. That story of the dream, Freud said it was a repressed wish that you're
acting out. I'm suggesting that it's acting out thoughts, important thoughts, important
realizations, important experiences in your future is what those memories are helping
represent in your dreams. That's wild. But when you start, first of all, the...
Because I've had some crazy dreams that I hope never happened.
Well, of course, this is a whole topic. People who start going down the rabbit hole of precognitive
dreams, there's a fear component there because everybody has negative dreams and dreams about
awful things happening to yourself or to your kids or whatever and they go, oh my God, I hope
that's not a precognitive dream. I'll say right off the top that most dreams do not come true
literally. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Verso. The older I get, the more I want
to invest in my health because I don't just want to look young, I want to feel young. Recent scientific
findings demonstrate that it is not only possible to slow down the aging process, but it's also
possible to reverse it. That is why I use cell being by Verso. Cell being contains scientifically
proven ingredients that target the root causes of aging and that way you can avoid the whack-a-mole
process that you get when you use regular supplements. It contains NMN, resveratrol, TMG,
and together these ingredients turn on longevity pathways in your body to help fight the effects
of aging. It also improves metabolism, boosting your NAD plus and so on. I started using cell
being years ago, originally when nutritional scientist Dr. Don D'Agostino came on the show
and explained to me all of the amazing benefits. Now I use it for pre-workout. I use it in the
morning for an extra boost of energy and essentially it is the holy grail. Verso also
publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to guarantee you're getting what you
pay for. So if you want to support the show, click the link down in the description. It's buy.ver.so
slash Danny or use the coupon code Danny at checkout for 15% off your first order. Again,
that's buy.ver.so slash d-a-n-n-y for 15% off your first order and don't forget to use the coupon
code Danny. It's linked below. Now back to the show. Okay. These are, again, they're symbolic,
mostly symbolic representations of things that are going to happen. Like even in Nabokov's case,
this was not a literal dream of him getting, you know, a check, a $150,000 check from Stanley
Kubrick. It was a dream of, you know, Harry of his uncle Vasily, this rich man, you know,
that who had died, you know, decades earlier returning to him as circus performers. You know,
that's, there was no movie industry at the time that he had the dream, you know, circus performers,
that's the nearest thing to movie industry executives, you know, or people in the movie
industry and named, you know, Harry and Kuvirkin, again, which is, you know, incredibly close to
Harris and Kubrick, you know, and in fact, Kuvirkin is Kubrick in English. It's like the,
right. Yeah. So that's, but that's an example of how dreams, they symbolically represent
events in your future, but there are exceptions. There are exceptions that are what I call video
quality, you know, precognitive dreams of something that'll happen in the next day or two or years
sometimes, but most of them are symbolically twisted, distorted, but that makes the topic
easy to debunk or easy to, easier for debunkers and skeptics to say, oh, you know, how can you
prove that this dream is about this event or whatever. And dreams are often very hard to remember.
Right. It makes me wonder, is that the fact that dreams are often very hard to remember
unless you really focus hard after you wake up or unless it's a really vivid dream that's like
unforgettable, is that by design that we can't, that there's a barrier there to us accessing
our dreams after we're conscious? No, I don't think there's a barrier, but that's a great question.
And it's kind of one of the big ironies of dreaming because if you ask any modern or most
modern dream researchers, the consensus that has sort of formed around dreaming and why we dream
is that dreams are making new memories. The idea is that they take daily experience that is held
in short-term memory, and then at night during REM especially, but during other modes of sleep,
those, that stuff in short-term memory is getting shunted into long-term memory.
And- Like backing up your hard drive.
Backing up your hard, well, not just backing up, you're sort of creating,
you know, you're sort of cleaning out your, your, I don't know what the, what the word is,
and your RAM, your RAM, maybe, yeah. Okay. Right. And you're, you're moving up.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. And you're moving that into, into, into the longer-term storage.
Okay. All right. That's the basic idea.
Okay. Well, I, and I basically agree with that. I mean, I think that, that dreams are making new
memories. I just think that they're making memories based on future experiences as well as past
experiences, not just past experiences. So that, that night in REM, we are mashing up,
you know, what happened, maybe, you know, things that happened, you know,
yesterday with things that are happening tomorrow. And because that idea is so
impossible, seeming or counterintuitive, that nobody even pays attention to that idea. You know,
we, we have, when you start doing pre-cognitive dream work, you start noticing, oh, fuck, I'm
having, I'm, you know, not necessarily every night, but I, I'm able to identify all these
elements of my dream that, that crop up in the next day or two. And, you know, this is happening
all the time and we're just not attuned to it. If you don't have a concept of pre-cognition,
or any idea that, that time may not be as simple as we've been led to believe since the Enlightenment,
you just won't even look for it. So what is this protocol that Dunn came up with to, to recognize
there, to do this dream work? His protocol boils down to two steps. And that is record your dreams,
record all of them in a dated journal in detail. You're, anyone who's interested in dreams,
whether they're interested in Freudian or Jungian, or, you know, there's all kinds of ways of, of
approaching your dreams. A lot of metaphysical approaches to dream interpretation. Anyone's
going to say you have to record your dreams. I mean, if you're interested in dreams, you've got
to record them. That's number one. But his second step, and it's actually my third step, I add a,
a new step in the middle, but his second step is every, okay, so write your dreams down the
morning and then set them aside. Then at the end of every day, go back and look at your dream,
your dreams from that morning and the previous couple of mornings. And just reflect on like
any similarities that you notice between the events that intervened, you know, over the course of the
few days during waking life and what you recorded in your dreams. Now, he was living in a day,
in a time before there was computers and hard drives. And, you know, one's written records of
dreams would quickly be too massive to like deal with. I mean, you can't compare every dream,
every experience you've had in your life to every dream you've had over the course of your life.
So he recommended just tossing out your dream records after a couple of days. So like just,
just look at the last few days, you know. Nowadays, it's easier to keep longer term dream
records. You can keep in a searchable, like I've kept, you know, dream journals for decades, even
long before I even knew about precognition. And you can search them on a hard drive, whatever.
So this is the other aspect, getting back to the biographical thing of how I got interested in
this. Around the time I was reading done, sorry, around the time I was reading BAM and Don and
so on, I was realizing, oh, I've had these dreams before. You know, I had a dream the night before
9-11. You did? Yeah. I had, you know, I've had other dreams that were just stunningly what I dreamed
about or some variant of it would happen the next day. What was your dream before 9-11?
Yeah. So I dreamed on the morning of 9-11, this would have been about three hours before the events.
It was one of my last dreams before waking up. And those are typically the ones that are easiest
to remember. Those are the ones, if you remember any dreams at all, you're going to remember the
last dream you had before. Was it kind of a wake? Yeah. You kind of sent me a wake. So the dream
was this, and it's not on the surface going to sound that compelling, but just wait. The, I was
driving down a neighbor, a certain street in my hometown in Lakewood, Colorado. It's a suburb of
Denver. I was living, at that point, I had just moved a week before to, to Vienna, Virginia,
which is right outside of Washington, D.C., okay? But dreamed about this street near my,
where I grew up. And on this certain part of the street, I drove past two identical,
identical buildings with corrugated facades, like gray corrugated facades. And somehow,
these buildings were mosques. I'd never, I'd never once dreamed about anything to do with
Islam or mosques or whatever. But I dreamed about these two identical corrugated facade,
very square, a pair of them, okay, that were mosques, all right? And drove past them. Okay.
And I got up and I wrote this dream down. It's like, doesn't seem very remarkable. They weren't
tall towers, they were, but they were squat, very square, a pair of them. And they had that kind
of, in fact, I think I wrote down that they looked like corduroy, kind of gray corduroy.
Anyway, okay, so, you know, the events of 9-11 happened, didn't ever, didn't even think about
this dream until the next day I looked at my dream record. And I started thinking about it.
Well, actually, I didn't, I thought, well, that's, you know, weird, because like that pair of buildings,
that same gray facade and like the fact that they were mosques and that all of a sudden,
you know, the media chatter was all about Islam and, and, and, you know, Islamic terrorists
and stuff like that. But I didn't, I didn't know what to make of it. You know, it's not like, I
didn't dream, like a lot of people had literal dreams of towers falling and explosions in New
York. A lot of people had those dreams in the days before 9-11. But this wasn't like obvious,
obviously precognitive. But then when I went back to this, having, after having read Dunn's book,
and having, you know, being more open to the topic of precognition, well, I realized all you have
to do is free associate. That's what, that was Freud's method for interpreting a dream was like,
you take every element of the dream and just think, what's the first thing this reminds me of?
Okay. And, well, free associating on this dream, like, oh, shit. So the certain, the certain place
in my dream where these buildings were, in fact, in actual fact, it was a little, what's there,
it's still there, is this little old, like one-story office building where my father had had his
psychology practice for like, just like a year when I was in, I think in junior high school or
around that time. And I have one association to that, to that building and then the time he was in
that office was that he had to be called late one night by a patient who was in a, having a
suicidal crisis. Okay. This patient was on the verge of committing suicide and he had to go to
that office to meet this patient and help like, talk him out of suicide. Okay. So that's interesting
because that's an association to suicide. Additionally, to the association to Islam and
those corrugated facades and all that. So it's like, it's like all the big parts of that story on
9-11 were like mashed up into this, into this, into this little dream diorama that was meaningful
to me. I mean, it wouldn't be meaningful to anybody else. Your dreams are all about you
and your thoughts and your experiences and your associations from childhood on. But, you know,
it's not a, okay, that's not going to be super convincing to someone who's A, not, you know,
not a believer in precognition, which most people aren't, and B, to anyone who thinks you have to
interpret your dreams symbolically. I mean, Freud went out, you know, about the middle of the last
century because scientists didn't find his approach compelling. They say, you can't, how can, how can
anyone prove that this, this dream means that if you have to symbolically decode it? Okay.
Right. So there's that problem, but. And there's the problem of recording them too. Like,
you can't just say, oh, I had this dream. You have to have evidence that you recorded.
And that's why, you know, that's why Don was so adamant, you have to record your dreams, you know.
But anyway, so, you know, that's just one example, but I had like many, a lot, even more,
more compelling examples where the event that happened the next day was, you know, obviously
what I had dreamed the night before. But tons of people had these dreams about 9-11. I mean,
there's a, like one of the examples that I've used in, in all my books is a painter in,
this is a painter who lived outside of London. He's probably not still alive yet. He was old.
He was already retired when he, even when he had his dream on September 11th, 1996.
He had a dream about two towers crumbling in New York. Now, he had already had lots of
precognitive dreams about IRA bombings and plane crashes and stuff like that.
And so he knew to, he had already developed sort of a method where he would, he would have the
dream and he would paint it. He was an artist. And so he would actually paint his dreams in
watercolor. And then he would go to his local Barclays Bank where they had a clock, like they
had a clock with the date, you know? And so he would have himself photographed at his bank under
the clock showing the date just to prove, you know, to put a date stamp on these dreams. Okay.
All right. So on 9-11, I'm sorry, 9-11, 1996. He did this? Yeah. In 1996, he took the picture?
Yeah. Yeah. You can see the picture. Holy cow. Yeah. And, but a few months later, he had another
dream about the same event with planes, planes crashing in the building. Okay. And he also,
I guess drew that and painted. I don't have a, I don't have that photograph. But
Is it online, you think? Yeah, it's online. You find it. Who is this guy? Okay. His name is,
blanking on his name. It'll come to me. Okay. Anyway, he, so yeah. So when 9-11 happens, he's like,
you know, astounded and kind of terrified, frankly, you know, that, that he had such an accurate
dream about this event, but like tons of people did. And that fact that he had it on 9-11,
like five years earlier, is also extremely common. People who do this, who start to study
pre-cognitive, study their own pre-cognitive dreams, find that they, you know, either they'll
dream about something that happens the next few days, sometimes it's longer, but significant
events in their lives, they may dream about exactly one year earlier or exactly multiple years on the
same date. It's something that I call calendrical resonance. And it's very common when you start
to record your dreams and keep a, a dated dream journal over multiple years, people who, who do
this find that there's something about dates. There's some, some way in which we unconsciously
keep track of, of dates. And, uh, you know, it's, it's a very common phenomenon to like,
you suddenly feel sad, you know, on a certain day. And then you look at the calendar and go, oh,
this is the day that my dad died, you know, three years ago. And like, I wasn't consciously aware
of it, but, you know, the date, the anniversary, you know, is, is, you know, our unconscious keeps
track of it. Well, I think it works in reverse too. You know, in it, it, you know, a certain date
might prime us or pre-mind us about an event that's going to happen on our future on that date
and prompt a dream. I've, you know, I've worked with other, you know, frequent pre-cognitive
dreamers who've noted the same thing in their dream journals. And wasn't there a, wasn't there
a, another guy who was an artist who was actually had rented a space in one of the towers? Yes.
This is, so in the chapter, the first chapter of my new book from nowhere, uh, is about artists and
writers. Um, and, uh, the, so yeah, so his name is Michael Richards, but this is not the Michael
Richards, the comedian. Right. Michael Rolando Richards. He's a, he was a Jamaican American
sculptor and he was sort of a rising star in, uh, in the kind of the New York art world in the, uh,
the 1990s, uh, and the, you know, approaching the millennium. Um, and he made, uh, a lot of very
striking sculptures. So he was black and very, you know, his sculptures were all about the,
the struggles of a black artist and a white dominated art world. Um, and his, his sculptures
were all on the themes of aviation and, uh, uh, so he, you know, he was really compelled by aviation,
but he would, uh, he would do these sculptural self-portraits where he was in the, the, uh,
in the, the flight suit of a Tuskegee Airman. Now the Tuskegee Airman in World War II was a black,
uh, were black pilots, uh, who flew in World War II and distinguished themselves, um,
uh, uh, in World War II. Um, but the, the name Tuskegee also calls to mind the Tuskegee
experiments, you know, about that. So it's like, it was kind of a double meaning there, uh, for
Michael Richards. But anyway, he would all, he would do these sculptural self-portraits.
Find Michael Richards portraits. Yeah. Look up, uh, Tar Baby versus St. Sebastian.
You'll see it. Oh wait, this is what, did you find the other guy?
I think. No, no, that's not, that's not it. Gosh. All right. Um, Tar Baby versus Bluh.
Tar Baby versus St. Sebastian. Uh, anyway, he painted these pictures, these self-portraits
as a Tuskegee Airman, often where he was, he had like parachuted to the ground or where he had
crashed to the ground. Uh, and, uh, and in this one case in 1999, he made this sculpture of himself
in bronze, levitating off the ground, impaled by all these airplanes. Wow. Okay. Now,
he at the time, uh, in, I'm sorry, in, in 2001, he got, uh, uh, he became part of what was called
the World Views Program, where the World Trade Center, um, gave it's, it's some of its unused
office spaces to artists, like there'd be a, for like six months. Um, and anyway, he was,
Oh yeah, I was just watching a video about this on Twitter. And so he was working in his studio.
Uh, actually he'd spent the night in his studio. He was the only one in his group of
his cohort of like 15 artists who had spent the night of, of September 10th in his studio. Uh,
and he was killed on the morning of, of 9-11, uh, by, you know, martyred by planes. So he's like
here, he's a self-portrait of himself as a saint, martyred by planes. So, uh, but my book is full
of examples like this. I mean, this is a particularly striking one, but, uh, this happens all the time.
I mean, this is my, um, this is by what I'm trying to get people to, um, take seriously in my work
is that precognition is not only real. I mean, people think, keep it kind of imagined well,
okay, maybe, maybe it's, it happens occasionally or maybe certain things like 9-11 are so awful
that they somehow ripple through space time and can cause people to have a precognitive dream.
But the fact is 99% of precognitive dreams are about like the sink backing up at work the next
day or, or, you know, some relatively trivial event in your own life.
There's so many crazy examples of people predicting 9-11. It's freaky. There's the X,
the, remember the X-Files episode? The, I think it was a pilot of, uh, an X-Files.
Yeah, Lone Gunman. Lone Gunman, it was a spin-off series, a pilot, uh, episode of the Lone Gunman
spin-off series was about, uh, some, some faction in the government, you know, remote control,
trying to remote control planes into the World Trade Center. But there's a million other
examples too. And I, chapter one of my new book is full of these examples about 9-11.
It focuses mainly on Michael Richards, but, uh, uh, but yeah, a ton of people, a ton of people
had these dreams. Same with the Titanic. I mean, people, if you know anything about, about
precognition, you might know that in 1898, a sea adventure writer named Morgan Robertson,
wrote a novel called Futility, uh, which was about the biggest ocean liner ever named the Titan,
which hits an iceberg on an April night and sinks and almost all the passengers die because
there's too few lifeboats. So it's like exactly what happened 14 years later, you know, in reality.
Um, but this is real. This is totally real and totally, uh, and, and he wasn't the only one.
I mean, people know, if they know anything about, you know, premonitions of the Titanic disaster,
they may have heard that story, but, but tons of people had dreams about it. Um,
Titan, if he wanted to find that, it'd be called what Titan story written in more. Yeah, Morgan
Robertson, um, Utility is the name of the novel. Morgan Rob and Futility. Robertson Robertson.
Robertson. Yeah. Um, I don't think there's going to be an interesting picture of it. I mean,
but, uh, yeah, it was republished. Okay. So the publisher republished it in,
as the wreck of the Titan, because they were trying to capitalize on, on the Titanic disaster.
Oh, they really, they reissued it in, in, um, uh, 1912 or 1915. Scroll down, Steve.
Oh, you're not. Okay. What does that say? It features a fictional British ocean liner named
the Titan that sinks in the North Atlantic ocean after sinking, after striking an iceberg. The
Titan and its, uh, sinking are famous for similarities to the passenger ship Titanic
after it sank 14 years later. That's freaky. What to you is the most compelling
premonition or pre-cognitive experience that was documented, like a dream that was actually
documented and proof that it happened later? Well, as far as dreams, I love the,
the Vladimir Nabokov story. I just think that's wild. And, and one of the things that, that it shows
is that, uh, that dream, pre-cognitive dreams can be very long range. I mean, they can,
they can span decades of a person's life. Um, okay. I'll give you two examples of very compelling,
uh, dreams, uh, that one, one that's, that anyone can look up and one that I've written
about in my pre-cognitive dream work book that's from a friend of mine, uh, who's highly
pre-cognitive. Um, one of the, the, the, the famous public one that people don't realize is a
pre-cognitive dream, uh, is Freud's, Sigmund Freud's most famous dream. Uh, and it's the dream,
it's the dream that gave him the theory of, you know, to him, the idea that dreams are
disguised fulfillment of repressed wishes was a dream that he had in 1895, uh, where he was,
um, um, he dreamed this, he was staying outside of Vienna at like a summer,
summer villa or whatever that he and his wife rented. And he has this dream that there's a party
and a bunch of his friends, his doctor friends are at this party and this one patient of his
is at this party and, uh, he goes up to her and she doesn't, and she's, there's something,
she doesn't, she's reluctant, she won't open her mouth or talk. And he finally compels her to
open her mouth and he looks in her mouth and he sees these white patches on the back of her mouth,
uh, and scabs, a bunch of scabs. Um, and he can somehow see the bones inside her nose
by looking her mouth. And then some, some other things happened in the dream and he sort of
interpreted this dream as being about, uh, sort of medical malpractice issues that were happening
in his, in his sphere because the doctors in his, in the dream, uh, all were like having these
mal, you know, one of them had killed a patient or nearly killed a patient and he had, he himself
had nearly killed a patient. Uh, and so he was having all these sort of anxieties and doubts
about his, his work and he interpreted this. See the, the, the woman in actuality did not have
any of these physical symptoms. He was a hysteric, you know, she had hysterical symptoms. That's
what was common at the time, uh, what we would now call depression probably. Um, but, uh, his,
so he was, he interpreted this dream, yes, the dream of Irma's injection. So he interpreted
this dream as being about his wish that he be blameless in all these medical malpractice issues,
including the fact that Irma, that's not her real name, had not gotten better from his treatment.
One of the people in the dream had told him the night before that she was not better
from his, and he was like, he was feeling a lot of anxiety about himself as a physician and so on.
Um, but okay. So fast forward, uh, let's see, this was 1923. So like almost three decades,
I think 28 years, he is diagnosed with, uh, an oral cancer. All right. All right. Uh,
the doctors found white patches, white patches called leukoplakia. Uh, people who smoke a lot
often develop an oral precancerous condition called leukoplakia. And that's what he had
because he smoked cigars. He was like a big cigar smoker. Um, they had to do these like
really horrible surgeries. I mean, this is like 1923, you know, it's like, uh, where, uh, he had,
they had to cut away these parts inside his mouth and it left him with these huge scabs.
All right. And then they ultimately had to cut out his palate. All right. Inside his mouth.
Um, and then put in this, and so every day he had to be fitted with or had to put in this, this
wooden denture, which like made him unable to open his mouth or speak. So all these,
these elements that he was seeing in Irma's mouth in that dream were true of him, the white
patches, the scabs, the note, the bones in the nose. If you take out your palate,
you can look inside the mouth and see up into your nose.
Oh wow. Holy cow. And he recorded this dream right after it happened.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. It takes up like 14 pages of his book, The Interpretation of Dreams. I mean,
it was his interpretation of free associating all the elements of his dream, but he didn't
believe in precognition and he didn't, you know, never even crossed his mind that this was about
something that was going to happen in nearly three decades in his life. I mean, who's gonna,
who's going to think about that when they record a dream? So he's interpreting dreams,
this dream all in terms of his sort of contemporary situation and his past, not his future.
So that's, that's one of them. Uh, you know, it's very striking and, and, you know, also Irma in
the dream does not, can't open her mouth or talk. Well, that is in fact what happened to him after
he had to wear this denture every day for the last like 15 years of his life. Um, another very
compelling dream example, uh, comes from a, uh, a friend of mine, uh, named Toby Wattery. Here,
she has a whole chapter in my book, Precognitive Dreamwork and the Long Self, because this is
just such a mind blowing experience. Um, so she, this, this happened when she was in college in
the, uh, at the University of Colorado in Boulder. Um, she, uh, she was living in a basement sort of
apartment, like group house kind of basement situation with, with a bunch of other people.
And she had these recurring dreams about this kid that she'd known like in second or third grade,
like, like this kid, like she no longer, she had moved away from that city years earlier,
never seen or thought about that kid, just just one random kid from, from grade school.
But she had this dream that this recurring dream over the course of, I don't know, a few weeks,
I guess, of this kid and she was, she was trying to kill him with a certain weapon. Okay. And she
kept having these, these awful dreams and they, and they were like really disturbing and distressing.
And she, whether because of the dream, dreams exactly or just because she was going through
depression or whatever, she had to leave school for like a semester or whatever. It was really
kind of a bad, you know, phase in her life. Okay. So fast forward, like, uh, a couple decades later,
she had another dream about, about this kid. Um, I won't go into the details of the dream,
but then 10 years later, and this is in 2018, she had another dream related to this kid.
Now in 2018, she was able to do a Google search. This is something that she couldn't obviously
have done back in 1988 when she had the original dreams. Um, and so she Google searches this guy
and she discovers terrible news that he had been murdered in exactly the way she had dreamed
Holy cow. In 1988. And that he had been, that he had, and that the date of the murder, she had,
now she had been, like me, she had been keeping a detailed dream journal for years and years by
this point. She was, happened to be interested in dreams and was interested in Carl Jung and
stuff like that. The date of his murder was exactly the date of that second in between
dream that she had had, you know, like about 20 years after the initial dreams,
not the, it was not the same year, but it was exactly the same date of the year.
And okay, so that it, but it gets better. So she, it occurred to her like, so she's like,
what the fuck is going on here? So she, among other things, decided to Google her classmates
that you're at the University of Colorado Boulder. And one of those classmates was me. I was one of
her housemates. She was a friend of my girlfriend. And we had completely lost touch after college.
She did not know what she found out when she Googled me was that she thought that I was an
anthropologist because that I'd gone off to graduate school after, you know, after college.
Well, she did not know that I had been writing about precognition and had just published like
literally a couple of days earlier, I had published my first book, Time Loops. So she, you know,
or she reads my blog or is the book and like discovers, holy shit, I'm a precog. I mean,
that's, that was the next word for, you know, someone who has, you know, recurring precognitive
experiences. And she like suddenly realized that, wait, a lot of her dreams, she'd been chalking
it up to synchronicity. That's the term that if nobody knows the word precognition, they'll think,
oh, this is synchronicity somehow. So she had all these dreams that would come true the next few
days or later. Anyway, so she then reached out to me and then we started like sort of working
together, like figuring all this out. But, you know, it was a mind blowing experience for her,
mind blowing for me as well. In fact, it kind of like prompted me to write the dream work,
was part of what, you know, prompted me to write the dream work. But, you know, amazing experience
and she, and she's like very, very like smart about this whole topic. She had already sort of
figured out a lot of aspects of precognitive dreaming and how precognition works. And so we,
you know, she's, she's, she's been an influence on me, definitely.
Are there any records of precognitive experience, like like conscious thoughts?
That's not dreams. Because I had something like this happen to me like a week ago.
Oh, okay.
Craziest thing I've ever, that's like ever, I was telling everybody about it. My wife was like
blown away. So there's a guy, one of my dad's close friends, he's been friends with her for 30
years. They worked together at the post office. I've known this guy my whole life, right?
It's one of my dad's close golf buddies. He's called me maybe four times in my whole life for
various reasons. Who knows, like maybe to, you know, borrow my golf gloves or something to go
golf with my dad or whatever, four times in the, in the 25 years I can remember knowing him.
I was driving home one day from, from here from the studio and I was thinking about something.
And I, for some reason, I was thinking about people's reaction to something that I was going
to do, right? And this guy's voice popped into my head. And I was thinking of how would this guy
react to this? And I look, I never really think about him either. Like he's not a guy he's,
I think about often. And I was like, I heard his voice reacting to something that I knew he was
that like two, because I knew I was going to see him sometime in the next couple of weeks or
whatever. And I was like imagining what his reaction would be to seeing this thing. And I
had his voice in my head, like imagining what his reaction would be. Three seconds later, he calls
me and I was just like, my pants. I was like, this is so crazy. And I was telling my wife, I'm like,
have you read anything like this happened to you? And I don't know, I don't know how to explain it.
But have you ever heard any, any stories like that? All the time, how it's all the time. And the,
and the moment, the thing is, it's going to start happening all the time to you now that you know
about this topic of recognition, because it starts happening. It's a cycle. Yeah. It's, well,
it's the thing that we just don't pay attention to, you know, like these things happen all the time.
And because we don't have a cultural concept for it, it's not part of our upbringing kids,
all the time, all the time, the little kids, my little kids have these, they'll say, oh,
this thing is going to happen. And then it happens. And it's like, what the, but it happens all the
time. But they get socialized out of us because most people, you know, like, uh-huh, kid. Yeah,
right. You know, it's like, it's socialized out of us to even talk about these things. And so we,
we wind up growing up in a society that just doesn't accept that this kind of thing happens
at all. But we grew up in almost any other society at any other time on earth, it would be totally
accepted. And ours is literally the only, the only culture on earth that doesn't believe that dreams
sometimes foretell the future. And yes, it always happens in, in waking states. People are most
aware of it with dreams because the most famous stories are from dreams, but happens all the,
exactly what the kind of thing you're describing just comes into your head. And that's what the
new book is about because, because I'm talking about, about inspiration, like the idea of ideas
that come from nowhere, the title of the book is from nowhere, things, thoughts that just pop into
our head for artists, you know, they pay attention to those things. That's where they're, they get
their, their ideas, you know, the muse or, you know, different cultures have had different words
for it. Yeah. The Greeks had a lot of words for it. Muses, the demon is one word. But, you know,
in every culture has ideas about where ideas come from. It may be from the Lord, you know, it may be
from the gods, maybe from the muses or spirits, the spirit world or whatever. I mean, every culture
has, has, has theories about this. I know you've had Diana Pasulka on, on, on your show and she,
you know, writes about, about tech people who think that they get ideas from the non-human
intelligences behind the phenomenon, you know, that's, that's a new kind of variant of a very
old idea that, you know, these, that, that our thoughts come from some external, you know,
source in the spirit world or whatever. Yeah. There are people talk about a protocol you can
follow where you can open up a portal to channel some sort of download, right? Some sort of creative
download or inspirational download that can help them in what they're trying to ultimately achieve.
Steven, Steven Pressfield writes about this too. He's a book called The War of Art. He talks about
channeling the muse. He's a writer and he talks about, you know, he spent his whole life writing
and he was a, talks about how he was a failed writer most of his life until he came up with
The War of Art. And the muse essentially, he talks about like showing up to work every day,
sitting down and putting pen to paper. And he says that he goes every day, he goes,
I have to sit down, I have to start writing every day. I don't know when the muse is going to show
up. But all I know is I have to be disciplined to sit down, start writing, and then maybe an hour
later, maybe two hours later, the muse will arrive. But you have to sit down and do the work first.
And he also talks about a thing called, he talks about, what's the word he uses for it?
It's like distractions or something. Anyways, he talks about all the things in life that are
meant to, that try to get, distract you from achieving that, right? Like whatever it is,
like distractions or doing other things. And, you know, it's really hard to channel that thing.
Anyways, yeah, like you said, people have been talking about this throughout history.
Right. Well, what I'm arguing in the new book is that, I'm not going to say it's not spirits or
the Lord or non-human intelligences, but that most of the time, it's your own self. It's your
future self. That's, you are tapping into things that are going to happen in your future. And
that that's where your best ideas are coming from. They're coming from your future. And
exactly the same way that it works in dreams, but you asked about it happening in waking life.
Well, that's the way it happens for most. I mean, some artists, you know, certainly get
their ideas from dreams, but most are getting them in this sort of inspired states or when
the muse hits them or however you want to describe it. And there's, you know, so there's a million
compelling examples of people channeling their future in their art. I mean, we already saw
Michael Richards. Let me give you another example, a beautiful example of this that I just
learned about this, you know, a few weeks ago was after I'd finished the book, so I couldn't
include it in the book. But this was a guy named, I can give you his actual name, Kevin Archer,
because he wrote a blog post about it. A really beautiful little blog post where he, I had known
him or we had been communicating a few years ago because after time loops, he sent me some
of his precognitive dreams. He'd had, you know, a few really interesting precognitive dreams.
I used one of them as an example in my dream workbook. But he, this story was not a dream.
So, this starts when he was 10, okay? He was in school in, he's in England and I'm not sure
exactly what grade that equates to in the English school system, but he was, I guess it was the
last year of primary school or whatever. His teacher assigned the class to imagine that they
were some ancestor of theirs in some, in any kind of historical period and to just write a story
about being that ancestor, okay? So, okay, so this guy's name is Archer and he'd always,
he said he'd always wondered about where that name came from, okay? So, he writes this story,
he's, this is just, he's just thinking this up. He writes this story where he's a bowman,
an archer on a medieval battlefield, okay? And he sort of describes the, you know, the
armor he was wearing and describes the scene of the battle and all that and, and, and describes it,
you know, he, you know, this ancestor of his, you know, he describes how he had like prevailed
as, as a bowman so successfully that the king said, from now on, you must call yourself Archer,
okay? So, okay, the, the teacher apparently like talked to his parents and said this was
such a good story, I felt like I was transported into the medieval times, whatever. Okay, so fast
forward 40 years, okay? He's now about 50 and his young daughter is asking about her heritage.
Um, and so, he, you know, again, he's now in an age where you can look these things up on the
internet rather than, you know, you know, which wasn't the case, you know, 40 years ago. So,
he starts doing a little genealogy researcher, not even doing the genealogy research, he just
immediately finds online that one of his distant cousins had been doing the genealogy of his,
of his family and had like a vast spreadsheet of the Archer family, okay?
Well, the very first entry of this spreadsheet he sends him is the story of this
bowman in Henry V's army at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415.
Um, and this, this ancestor was named Simon de Bois, all right? And if you know anything about
the Battle of Agincourt, it was won partly because of the English Bowman. They were vastly outnumbered
by the French in this like forest or near a forest. Um, but their bowmen were superior and
that the, the archers sort of won the day. And it's a very famous battle and Shakespeare's Henry
V, the famous speech, you know, we, we band of brothers, that comes from Shakespeare's story
about the Battle of Agincourt and Henry V. Anyway, so the very first cell in this spreadsheet about
this guy's genealogy explains how Simon de Bois, you know, was so successful as an archer or as
a bowman in the Battle of Agincourt that Henry V like gave him, awarded him a, like a, an annual
stipend of like five marks or whatever, which was pretty good salary on the condition that he
changed his name to Archer. Huh. Okay. So it's exactly, it's exactly what he wrote about randomly
at age 10. Now he, like any person who's at all skeptical and you should be skeptical of these
stories, you know, he immediately reached out to his parents and said, did you guys know any
of this history about our name? Did you, had you ever told me this, you know, is this,
am I just imagining that I didn't know this at the time? And they, they were just as
was as new to them as it was to him. He never knew this, this history. And, and there's an added
detail to it. Like a lot of people are going to hear that story and think, Oh, well, maybe he's the
maybe he was the reincarnation of Simon Du Bois or something like that.
Oh yeah. Like he was remembering a previous life. That's what Stripel talks about too.
Well, in his subsequent sort of subsequent to this, he learned that that, that story about the
origin of the name Archer happening at, after the Battle of Agincourt is, is false. That actually
the, the, the family name Archer originates some, a few decades before that battle. And it wasn't,
it wasn't that story at all. So it's not, he wasn't, he wasn't like remembering some past life
because that, that was actually kind of fictional or it was a fiction that he wrote or a bit of
kind of legend or folklore that you read. Interesting. So, but he's, so he was precognizing in
his, you know, inspired moment or wasn't inspired. I mean, he was just forced to write a, you know,
to write a story in school. And so kind of what emerges under his pen as he's writing is this
amazing learning experience he would have four decades in his future about his ancestry.
You know, I just, it's just a, a lovely example of what I think happens all the time when,
when artists are working, whether it's, you know, getting that kind of random out of the blue,
oh my God, this new idea, you know, comes landing in, in your head, or whether you're just doing
what you described, which is just kind of the work of sitting down and like forcing yourself to,
to work. I'll give you, I'll give you another example that's, you know, I think some people
are going to like raise their eyebrows at this, but, and I would love to hear people's reactions
to this, but so I was watching. So I, I'm obviously, when I read our artists biographies now, or when
I learn about an artist process, I'm always kind of, you know, looking for possible examples of
this. And so I was, so, you know, a couple years ago when it came out, I was one of those people
just utterly blown away by Get Back, the Pierre Jackson series about the Beatles and their,
and their creation of the, of their penultimate album, what it was it, Let It Be.
And I don't know if you saw the series, but it begins with Paul McCartney kind of noodling on his
bass, the first strains of like what the song that became Get Back, you know. And he's kind of
noodling and like over the first few days, and this is about a rehearsal, they're kind of rehearsing
for what they think is going to be a live, a live show. And it's just, you know, it's, on the surface,
it's kind of boring, but the fact that these are the Beatles, and if you grew up with the Beatles
and in awe of the Beatles, it's like amazing to watch this. And it's the best, you know,
it's the best document of artistic creation that's ever been put on film. It's just, it's a phenomenal
show. And he's just, it's just this footage that of them in the studio, like jamming, essentially.
And, and you're watching, you're watching these stories, these songs come together,
you know, essentially as you're watching. So anyway, so, so on July, I'm sorry, January 7, 1969,
which is when the show starts, Paul McCartney is like noodling this idea and it's like
about the only line he has is get back, get back, get back, you know, to where he once belonged.
So, and then over the next two days, it sort of evolves a little and gets this idea, okay,
they're JoJo, something about JoJo. And then JoJo is somehow he lives in Arizona and like
Tucson, Arizona, JoJo, get back, get back, JoJo, you know, they're just kind of like,
they're all kind of just playing around with this idea and like, yeah, whatever.
And then on January 10th in the morning, there's a book by the way that goes with this film. And so
you can like, you can read the transcript and everything, it's amazing. So on the morning of
January 10th, 1969, you know, they're noodling this idea, John Lennon tosses out there, but he
knew it wouldn't last. Okay, so that's another new line in the song, okay, whatever. Okay, so that,
that day at lunch, George Harrison leaves the band, he walks out, he stands up, he's so exasperated
with like all the disagreements between his band members, a lot of frictions, Paul's being very
bossy. And he feels, George is just feeling unappreciated. So he walks out and he says,
see you around the pubs. So that's the big cliffhanger ending of the first episode of Peter
Jackson's series. And so what transpires is over the following week, the other three Beatles had to
go, had all the four Beatles had to convene at Ringo's house to convince George to get back.
And JoJo sounds a lot like George. And Harrison sounds a lot like Arizona. So I think-
Harrison sounds like what? Arizona. I mean, the only words he had at this point were JoJo and
Arizona, you know. Wow. So, you know, is this precognition on the part of Paul? Is he kind
of just kind of channeling this, this, this, this kind of important upheaval that's about to happen
in his life that George Harrison is going to walk out of the band and they're going to have to like
do some real, do something, something big to convince George to get back to where he once
belonged, you know. But, and there's, there's more irony here. That line, get back, get back to where
he once belonged, actually came from a song that George had written called Sour Milk Sea.
And it was a, it was a song about getting out of situations that you don't want to be in because
they're not satisfying. And he'd just written this song and actually he'd given it to another artist
to record. So basically Paul McCartney had like, had essentially stole this, this idea from George,
who was already disgruntled about, get back, get back to where he once belonged. And then,
you know, creates this, this song. And of course, it never would have occurred to any of the Beatles
that that's what this song was about. They kind of then, the song then evolved and
they even thought, well, maybe it was somehow about immigration and stuff. There's a lot of theories
or whatever. And then there's another character they added and all that. None of this would have
ever been conscious. But I just find it really uncanny that, that Paul McCartney like has this idea
for, you know, telling someone to get back. It's just like, it's all just telling someone
named Jojo, get back, Jojo, get back, Jojo, get back to where he once belonged.
That's fast. And then in, you know, literally three days that he is in that situation of having to
convince George to get back to where he once belonged. So anyway, you know, it's an example,
this is not one of the main examples in my book, because I think people are going to like go,
you know, but if you have, if you're at all open to the suggestion I'm making that,
that, that inspiration and creativity might often involve these kind of precognitive,
you know, upheavals in our future. Yeah, that's really, really interesting. It's,
is it any way this precognitive or this precognition, is there any ties that you've found
to remote viewing? Because I had this guy on here a couple of times. Mr. Morehouse was on the show
and he got, he was overseas training and I think he was a, I think he was an army ranger.
And anyways, he got shot in the head by a stray bullet and he was wearing a helmet,
luckily, and crazy concussion, knocked unconscious, had a severe head trauma,
came back and to see a psychiatrist and, and they decided to do a bunch of tests on him. And
then they submitted him to Project Stargate and the CIA to do remote viewing. And he came
on here and he walked us through how they do remote viewing and the whole protocol. And
you know, it's crazy because it's not, it's again, it's not something you can really measure
or duplicate, you know, with the scientific, doesn't path, doesn't path scientific method
muster. But it's insane that, that our government would spend so much money on it if it wasn't real.
Oh, it's totally real. I mean, the question, this is the whole battle between science and the
supernatural. It's, yeah, the thing is, it's not super, I, you know, it's not supernatural. It's,
this is, this is just an uncharacterized factor of human cognition, you know, and we don't know
how it works because we, partly because we, we are stuck with enlightenment, you know, models
of causation and causality that, that really were inherited from the enlightenment, but they have
like really outworn their usefulness. There's, I'll say a couple of things. Yeah, the remote
viewing stuff is, is fascinating. There is an argument, there's an argument about whether
remote viewers, there's the sort of mental model we all have of remote viewing or, or clairvoyance
is it sometimes called as, you know, somehow seeing things across space. Okay. Seeing things
that are happening simultaneously with us, but they're happening, you know, in another room
or another country or, you know, or seeing into that closed envelope. Okay.
They could also go across time though. Well, that's the thing. Yeah.
And they, yeah, they're great examples from remote viewers where they're actually seeing
things that haven't happened yet. Paul Smith is another remote viewer who is in the Stargate
program and he writes several fascinating examples of in one case, you know, is the end of the day
on Friday. He gets this, he, he, he's, uh, he, he has a mental image of a, of a missile striking
a ship in some desert off of some desert country. Uh, and it somehow was accidental, but on purpose
kind of weird. It wasn't corresponding to anything that was going on in the world at that time. So
he just kind of filed it that Monday. You know, one of his, one of his colleagues called him say,
have you looked at the news today? And it was the strike on the USS Stark, uh, uh, in, in the
Persian Gulf. And it was, I think it was Iran or I forget it was Iran or Iraq struck the ship.
And it was like supposedly accidental, but there was an idea that might have been on purpose.
Anyway, so he was seeing this event that, that it was about to happen in the future. Um, and,
but there is a debate among people who study this stuff, whether maybe remote viewing is all
precognition. That is to say, if you're going to get feedback in the future, if you're going to
learn the truth in the future, are you in fact seeing across space, are you seeing into that
envelope or are you seeing your future moment when the, the contents of the envelope are revealed?
And you could get that excited excitement that, Oh, I was right. It was this thing.
Are you seeing that moment in time in your biography? So there's a, there's a, there's,
this is a disputed thing and a lot of remote viewers would, would, would push back on that.
But, uh, but yeah, it's, it's, but some argue that that's what it is. Like, uh,
Edwin May has made, argued compellingly that it's really all precognition.
I think Russell Targ, too, has, has often, has always kind of suspected that a lot of it might
be precognition. And, and, uh, so, so this is a debate in the field of remote viewing.
I would imagine that they still, if, if this stuff, there's so much evidence and there's been
studies on it, like you pointed out earlier, that it has to be being still used to some extent,
if it was used, you know, like that in the 80s and the 90s. Absolutely. Um,
Yeah. The question is though, that if it is precognition, that changes its value
in intelligence gathering, because if you can always, uh,
the feedback you get can always be false. Right. I mean, you could, you know, you can get,
you know, feedback from the news, but the news story might be wrong. So if you're precognizing
like a news story or precognizing information that you get that may be manufactured, uh,
or fictional, because a lot of people, a lot of what people precognize is fictional things.
You know, it's TV shows like Vladimir Nabokov. I mean, he was precognizing
scenes in TV shows that he was going to watch. Uh, people often precognize movies. I've got
tons of examples in my book of, of, you know, precognizing some striking scene in a movie
I watched the next day. Is there any way to focus it? He has a good question. Um, yeah,
some people would say definitely. Uh, I want to, another person who, who studies precognition,
she's a neuroscientist, Julia Mossbridge. I don't know if you've heard her name. She, uh,
she's very much about developing ways to focus this, using sort of the remote viewing style
protocols to focus your precognition. So certainly, certainly there are ways to focus it.
I've not been so interested in focusing it. I'm not kind of, I'm not really in the end
that interested in, in developing precognition as some kind of new superpower or whatever. I think
I'm more interested in what it reveals about just spontaneous precognition, what it reveals about
what I call the long self, that is to say the fact that we are four dimensional creatures
extending through time. And there somehow we are in contact with those future moments. The same
way we're in contact with our past via memory. I just think precognition is just memory. It's
all memory. So memory forward. Memory goes in both directions. It doesn't just go in one direction.
I wanted to say one of the reasons that people have such a mental block about this stuff,
it goes back to the enlightenment. Uh, one of the rules of science when it was first
modern science, when it was first emerging in the 17th century was that you had to
banish anything that had to do with, with God. Okay. You had to keep God out of it. You know,
they were looking for naturalistic explanations for phenomena. So one of the things that they
threw out in the bathwater basically with God was teleology. What's called teleology. Now teleology
is the idea of causes running in reverse. We would now call it retro causation. That's the term that
physicists now use. Causes running in reverse. In temporal reverse. That is to say, uh, you know,
something in the future affecting something in the past. Okay. We usually think of causes going
forward in time. Right. But effect happening first cause happening later. Exactly. Yeah.
An effect happening before a cause. Right. Okay. So at that time, teleology was just assumed to be,
like if you were talking about teleology, you were automatically talking about God's plan.
All right. And so teleology got thrown out of science because it was not fair bringing God
into the equation. And if you were talking about causes running backwards in time,
you were implicitly at that time talking about God's divine plan. All right. Okay. So
now, so that, that, so the idea of the presumption that causes only run in one direction, you know,
it worked fine in science for a couple of centuries, but then almost exactly a century ago,
physicists discovered that on the smallest scales in nature and we're talking about quantum,
quantum scales, it doesn't quite work that there's this, this, this element that's always
been called randomness or indeterminacy or uncertainty. Okay. And so quantum physics for
the last century has been about this, this component of causation that cannot be predicted from,
from past events, from prior events. And now you have all these interpretations of quantum,
of this mystery. Okay. There's a lot of different interpretations. You got the
Copenhagen interpretation. You have the many worlds interpretation. You have like a lot of
different sort of competing interpretations of what it means that certain things cannot be predicted
from a chain of prior causes. And one of the theories is retro causation. Well,
wait a minute. Maybe causes are propagating from the future to the past, as well as from
the past to the future. And maybe that's what accounts for this thing we're calling randomness.
Now, one of the most influential figures in early quantum mechanics was Niels Bohr.
And he was, he was a very brilliant man and very sort of powerful personality. And he sort of
dominated the conversation, like in the early years of quantum physics. And he sort of convinced
people that, no, that, that ran, it's just random. And you have to accept that the world is random
on the smallest scales in nature. And we have to just accept it. And there's no, you know,
there's no reason for it. And, and that you've probably heard the idea of wave functions collapsing,
the collapse of the wave function. This is kind of the core mystery in quantum physics is, like,
things are completely, they're mostly unpredictable until you make a measurement. And then
the things take on a solid reality. There's kind of things behave as waves.
Double slit experiment.
Double slit, all that. Yeah. And, and sort of there's this mystery of what happens when you
make a measurement of something. And that from that, there's a popular idea that somehow it's
observation itself that collapses the wave function. And maybe it has to do with our
consciousness or something like that. That's, that's one, it's not a mainstream idea in physics,
but that's, that's been taken up by, you know, certainly by people in the new age and, and
stuff. It's an appealing idea that somehow it's our, our minds that are causing reality or whatever.
Right, right. But anyway, Bohr said, just don't worry about it. Just, you know, do the math,
the, the, the, the, the equations, you know, can be used to predict very well what happens to
particles in the aggregate. Like if you have a bunch of particles, you can tell exactly what's
going to happen, even if you don't know what's going to happen to a single particle because
of this indeterminacy factor. But more and more physicists now are talking about retro causation
that, hey, wait a minute. What if, what if that, that whole randomness thing, what if it isn't random?
What if, what if my measurement now of this particle, this electron is actually causing
what happened in its past? And in that case is not random. And there's this retro, retrograde
component in causation, retro causation. And they have actually done experiments that suggest
that that's what's going on. I'll give you an example. This is from my book, Time Loops. I talk
about this, but in 2009, there's new methods in quantum physics that are enabling researchers to
kind of probe this question. Okay. And one of the, one of the methods is called weak measurement.
I mean, it's kind of complicated how it works. But, you know, the idea is, you know, in most
measurements, you affect the thing you're measuring, you know, and so it causes problems.
But there's this method called weak measurement, which is, if you like,
weakly measure a bunch of particles, you can kind of like measure them without affecting them. Okay.
So what they did in this experiment, it's, it's very similar to what happened in Daryl
Bem's experiment, except this time we're using photons, not Cornell undergraduates. Okay. Just
substitute photons for the Cornell undergraduates. Basically, what they did was they took a laser
beam. All right. And they put it through a beam splitter. So you have the same beam,
but then it's split into two. All right. Now, then what they did was they, they weakly measured
the photons in both beams. All right. And then they subjected one of the beams to a,
to this, a strong measurement, if you want to put it that way. And what they discovered was that
back in time, when they were weakly measured, the photons that got the later strong measurement
had been amplified significantly. So that later measurement amplified the photons in their past.
I see the look on your face, but it's the exact look, you know, on your face when you
learned about Daryl Bem's experiments. I mean, you, you like, what the fuck? But it means that
causes that, that events in, in the future, a time point B,
somehow affect things at time point A in the past. And the idea, you know, I think the idea of,
of me and others who study precognition are that, okay, so the brain is somehow,
well, first of all, a lot of, a lot of more and more people now think that the brain is some kind
of quantum computer or a quantum, sort of a hybrid quantum classical computer, because there
seem to be quantum processes going on inside neurons. You've probably heard about microtubules.
Well, they're, yes. So microtubules, you know, one theory of consciousness is that they have to do
with, with these quantum, these little molecular quantum computers inside neurons called microtubules.
Well, I think microtubules are responsible for reshaping the synapses during learning.
And I think that microtubules are getting information from their future and reshaping
the synapses based on future, what's going to happen to that cell in the future.
I know it's, it's, it's, it's mind blowing, but evidence for this is actually coming from the
field of quantum computing, because one of the things that's, that's being discovered in people
who are working with, with quantum computers and working with models of quantum computers is that
you can, you can reverse, you can reverse temporality in a, in a quantum computer circuit.
And sort of essentially, my simplistic way of putting it is that you can get an output before
an input in a quantum computer circuit. And there's several articles on this phenomenon just in
the last few years. So it's looking like quantum computers, you know, might be more than just
sophisticated number crunchers. I mean, it looks like, you know, quantum computers might
eventually make possible communication across time. This is a possibility that if you saw the,
did you see the television show, The Peripheral? It's based on a novel by William Gibson. He wrote
the Neuromancer back in the early eighties. He was sort of predicted, you know, cyberspace and
everything. Right. Well, his novel, The Peripheral, and they made it into an Amazon series a couple
years ago, is about people using a quantum computer server to communicate across time.
And, yeah. And so, but that if, if what's being shown in these early, this early,
these early days of quantum computing, if it pans out that, oh, yeah, this is,
you know, it's not, this isn't about sort of spatial non locality. You'll hear that word
non locality a lot. It's about temporal locality. And, you know, if, if, if that's, if that these,
these threads from quantum computing are true, if these threads of quantum biology
hold, you know, that indeed the brain is a quantum computer or involves quantum computation.
Well, right there, you would have a physical explanation for how information from the future
could get into the past and how we could have pre cognitive dreams or we could have exactly
happened to you where it's like, oh, thought comes into your head about this random person
you haven't thought of in, in ages and suddenly you get a call from them. You know, what if this
is always happening? Right. You know, what if this is always happening and that we are,
that's kind of a part of like a guidance system or, or the, the, the analogy I draw in my dream
workbook is to imagine, imagine the, the usefulness of something like this in like a safety device.
Like, and so I imagine like, well, you know, my, you know, my 2030 Tesla, okay, has a quantum
airbag. Okay. And it deploys a second before a collision, not because it predicts the collision,
but because it's got a quantum computer and it knows when there's inevitably going to be a
collision. So it deploys my airbag just a second earlier to, you know, to enhance my survival.
Well, what if that's, what if we're going through life with this quantum airbag that essentially
cushions us against like shocks. That gets pretty philosophical, doesn't it?
Extremely. I'm hoping we run out of time before we have to talk about free will,
because the free will question is so, yeah, it's, it hovers over all of this. But yeah,
how does that change your life when you know that everything that's going to happen in your life is
already predetermined? What does that even mean? Well, right. That's a great question. And I can't
answer it for you, like just sitting here. I mean, I can, I've addressed this in my books. I talk
about a lot in the new book. I think, first of all, I think free will is, you know, not the most
helpful thing because it bogs you down. Like why worry about it? Like we, we feel like we have free
will our actions and my actions right now affect, you know, the next moment affects the next, you
know, our, our action, you know, we, we can't help. We can't escape what we experience as free
will. So board philosophers keeping them busy. Right. I mean, essentially, essentially it is.
I mean, I, okay, so my, my tradition, my spiritual tradition, I would say is zen, all right. And
one of the things that comes through again and again in zen enlightenment experiences is, is that
you don't need free will. Free will is a kind of a mirage. And it's actually really blissful when
you kind of break through this, this idea of free will and this worry about free will and this
sense of having free will. In fact, like whenever you are the most like successful at whatever it is
you do, whatever flow state you get into with whatever your, your, your athletic or creative or
creative or whatever, or when you're driving a car, you're not thinking about, you're not
exerting free conscious free will. You're like you're unconscious is in complete control. Right.
Back in, back in the late 70s and early 80s, this guy named Benjamin LeBet, a neuroscientist,
you may have heard of him, he performed some really fascinating experiments that were really
troubling for people because they showed that, that our nerves would initiate an action like,
like a half second before we were consciously aware of it. Okay. Right. Which you can interpret
that in multiple ways. And the way that a lot of people interpreted it was that, well, free will
is just a complete mirage and we don't exert, you know, the sense that we have of being consciously
in control of our lives is completely a mirage. Another way of looking at it is that we are
controlling our lives, but from the future that we are, that we are reflecting back on, on, you
know, think about how, I don't know if you do a martial art or something. I used to do martial
arts and you'd make a particular move and you'd, you'd replay it in your head, you know, like a
successful move. You'd replay it in your head. What if that mental replay, what if you're,
what if you are, that mental replay is actually causing, maybe you are actually pulling your,
your meat puppet strings from a position displaced into your future and that that's what
free will and agency, what if that's what it is? It's kind of rich retro causation in the body.
Yes. It raises like, like, amazing, there's amazing implications of retro causation
and it's biological physical manifestations as precognition or what Daryl Bem called
pre-sentiment, you know, feeling, feeling the future without being consciously aware. I think
that's, that's where it really mostly manifests, you know, we're not consciously aware of,
of seeing the future. I mean, that occasionally happens like in visions, people have precognitive
visions, but most of the time it's just, it's controlling us unconsciously and, and the implications
if this exists at all, then it's astonishing. It's astonishing and it, and it's, I find it
incredibly exciting because it's like we've, it's like since the Enlightenment, you know,
if you could divide time into, you know, past and future and then there's this line of the present
in the middle of it, all we've been looking at causally for, you know, the last three centuries
in the Enlightenment is this, this left half, you know, but there's this whole right half, the
future that is, I think, and a growing number of physicists even think is influencing our actions
and influencing what happens in the physical world that we just have like had a mental block to
because we threw out teleology with God, you know, three centuries ago.
Okay, so time loops. It's kind of hard to conceptualize. So we got here some of your
infographics that explain how this, explains how this works. So it says like a time loop is
a causally circular formation in a, in the block universe that affect
retro influences its own causes. Okay, so on one side, so you have a line going through the center
of this loop, right? And on the line represents time going forward from the present to the future.
And on the left side of it, we have information traveling backwards in time, carried by strong
emotion. And on the right side of the line, we have another curved arrow that is freely wheeled
actions that lead to future outcomes. Okay.
So if we were like thinking about the Daryl Bem experiment, that would be a good example.
Okay. You know, clicking on a curtain and suddenly being rewarded or seeing an erotic picture,
you know, that's a reward. That's like acting like one of, you know, a treat if you were
training a dog or a dolphin, you know, give them a sardine. It's like, it's like a reward.
It's, and, and it's those little, those little rewards. You know, somehow we don't know the
mechanism, but somehow those rewards get traveled backward in time, not only rewards, but also
traumas of various kinds. So that's why, you know, people often have, you know, if they're aware of
precognition, it's often in the context of having a dream about a loved one's death, for instance.
Okay. This is interesting when you look at it this way, because this is not how I was thinking
about it originally. So in the present, like we could have, like you could think of this sort of
like as ambition, right? Like if you're ambitious throughout your life to achieve something, or
you know that you want to do something with your life, all of your actions are going to
be directed towards achieving this goal that you think that your life that you were destined to do,
like you being a writer, right? Or me doing podcasts. So essentially, the idea is that if
somebody has a, and tell me if I'm completely butchering this, but if somebody has some sort
of an idea early on in life about what they want to do with their life and then they go to college,
they get a job, they start writing books, they become a super famous published author,
essentially that this happened in reverse somehow. Like this already happened and it's
coming back to them, which is why they're inspired to do this in the first place.
Right. Right. Okay.
The question is how pervasive is this? You know, how much of an effect
is this? How much of an effect does the future have on the past? And that's an open question.
I mean, it's like, obviously, it's not like an incredibly strong effect or we'd be more aware
of it. It is a subtle effect. And even in quantum physics, I mean, you can say, talking about
the direction. If you know a lot about the position of an electron, you don't know
much about its velocity, but you know something. There's a way in which we know most of what we
need to know from classical physics that moves from the past to the future.
But we don't know everything. And that's that uncertain component that is coming from the
future. So there is like an asymmetry. I think anyone who studies this would say,
yeah, there's an asymmetry there. And why there's that asymmetry? I mean, who knows? I mean, that's
you're getting into, you know, realms that we can't even address yet. But
some component of the way the world is at this moment is a result of things
causes propagating backward in time versus causes just causes going forward in time from the past.
And the idea, the reason why quantum computers are so important in this
is that, you know, it doesn't really matter, you know, this idea of, well, the fact that
randomness is really retrocausation, it doesn't matter for just inert matter, you know, it doesn't
matter for predicting. We don't need to know about retrocausation if we're going to predict,
you know, the, you know, planets and weather and things like that. Where it becomes important
is when that little retrocausal factor at the micro, micro scale of the quantum
is scaled up somehow and made coherent at a larger scale. And that's what a quantum computer is,
because what a quantum computer is, is a matrix of electrons or some particle that they're all
entangled, you know, they're all entangled. That is to say, they act as a unit, you know,
they all act together. So you do something to affect one of those particles, it affects the whole
thing, you know, simultaneously. And, and if you can create a system like that, and if that
entanglement is really a temporal entanglement, like where it's entangled with our, its future,
or what's going to happen in the future, then you can, you can create a system for where a system,
whether it be a living system or a mechanical system can be influenced by things in the future in a
coherent way. You're talking about like deja vu? Well, people have argued that deja vu is a kind
of symptom of precognition that, that you suddenly have an experience that you, you feel familiar
and you don't know how, well, maybe you had a dream and you can't remember the dream, but you
know, there's that feeling of familiarity. It's complicated with deja vu because you can
artificially induce deja vu. I think you can, you can like probe a certain part of the brain
and give someone the sensation that they've experienced this before. So the possibility
that this is just the brain misfiring, I think you have to kind of keep that possibility. So
that's why I'm, I'm, I hesitate to say that deja vu is necessarily about precognition,
but a lot of people through the years have argued exactly what you're saying.
What other slides we got here, Steve?
Well, let's see what we got. Oh, this is the block universe. Past,
present, and future really coexist. Objects travel along world lines from past to future mostly.
Okay. So this is showing a, a graph at the vertical axis of space and the, the horizontalest time.
And can you explain this a little bit? It's not, it's not a really a graph. It's just a,
a representation of space time. Now when Einstein's discoveries in the early years of the century
really revealed that we live in a four dimensional, not three dimensional universe, you know, it's,
and that, that added dimension is time. Now people have speculated about higher dimensions than
fourth, but let's just stick to four because, you know, you can't, it's very, it's very hard
to visualize this. And that's why anytime you're going to visualize a four dimensional space
time, you've got to get rid of at least one of those spatial dimensions and turn it into time
and make it something solid like we're seeing in this diagram. You know, this is a big, just imagine
a big glass brick, you know, essentially, and things trow, thing, anything like a particle or
a person, you know, we are world lines. We, we extend through time.
Got it. And actually, yeah. And mostly we extend in one, you know, the,
well, yeah, that world line is generally not tangled, but there are, it's possible to have
a loop in that world line. And that's what wormholes are, for instance, that's not,
that's not how I think precognition works. But this is just an example of how you can have
an object that kind of makes a loop in space time. And wormholes allow objects to travel
backward in time and then resume their journey back to the future. Okay.
Particles also carry some quantum information backwards along their world lines from future
interactions to previous ones. Okay, this offers an alternative explanation for entanglement.
Okay.
Entanglement is the idea that I'm sure you've heard about from other people on your show. It's
sort of often thrown around as an explanation for not only psychic phenomena, but things having
to do with UFOs and so on. It's this kind of mysterious fact that if you take two particles
that have been in contact, and then you take them and separate them, even they could be separated
by the length of the universe, you do something to measure one of those particles,
the other one is going to show a corresponding measurement. And the way that is usually imagined
is that it's somehow communing across space. Again, we have a hard time thinking in terms
of time. So the assumption of most physicists, the kind of mental image they have is of it,
they're somehow exchanging information, even though they know that that's not possible,
that there's not telepathy on the level of electrons. But one of the possibilities,
and this was originally proposed by a physicist named Olivier Costa de Beauregard,
and he offered it back in the 50s, but it was never, nothing was much done with it. And then
a philosopher, I believe, who sort of got into quantum physics named Hugh Price in Australia,
wrote a really good book in the 90s arguing that, wait a minute, this is a possible explanation
for entanglement that instead of these particles sort of simultaneously communicating, that whatever
you do to measure particle B sends information backward in time to where it was in contact with
particle A, so that automatically particle A contains some of that information from its
measurement of particle, from the measurement of particle B. So it's what he calls, what Costa
de Beauregard called it, the Parisian zigzag, he was a French. So these causes travel zigzag paths
in space time, and that that's an alternative explanation for this thing called quantum entanglement.
And what people in the paranormal world and who study ESP like the concept of entanglement,
because again, the usual explanation is that it entails what's called non-locality, that being
in a certain place doesn't matter because you're connected somehow across space to other things,
and maybe our minds are connected across space to a target in our own viewing experiment, or my
mind might be connected to yours in telepathy or whatever. The alternative, if they're really
connected across time, that makes what I'm arguing possible about the brain or a person
being connected through time to itself. Right. Have there ever been any studies that you're aware of
on accessing alternate timelines or alternate spaces in time or parallel universes with drugs?
There's a guy I had in here, Andrew Gallimore, what he's doing in Tokyo is he's doing this thing
called DMTX, where it's DMT, extended state research where he puts people on an IV drip
of DMT for a long period of time, multiple hours in a day, brings them out, and then basically
trying to map the DMT realm. And this is very similar to what he talks about.
Well, it depends on your interpretation of quantum physics. A lot of people assume, again,
that this is a thing about spatial nonlocality. And one of the interpretations of that
that goes along with that is the idea of many worlds or multiple parallel timelines.
So there's the idea that what people are accessing in altered states or in dreams or whatever
is some other timeline. But actually, the retrocausal interpretation argues against that.
That's one timeline.
That it's one timeline. And so what you're accessing in those states is really
in some way or another, pre-cognitive information, or it's you're accessing potentially
things happening in the future, mashed up with things in the past or whatever in that
kind of symbolically distorted way that pre-cognitive dreamers become aware of when they
start to study this stuff. That's the alternative argument. I'm not a fan of the many worlds
interpretation. Yeah. And a lot of people in quantum computing will talk in these terms,
exactly the terms that you're talking about, because again, that's the kind of favored
interpretation of what happens with entanglement.
Or I'm sorry, not entanglement, superposition. This is another technical term from quantum
computing. But the way quantum computers work is that they're able to take multiple
states simultaneously, or that's how it's thought of. It's called superposition.
So it's kind of like parallel computing or parallel processing, but the particles are in
multiple, it's a superposition of multiple states simultaneously. So you get this
amped up computing power because you're capitalizing on all those possibilities.
And so people in quantum computing often think that, okay, well, this means that quantum
computers are somehow accessing alternate realities or alternate timelines. But if it's
really retro causation that's going on, then we're truly talking about the computer is accessing
its future, not an alternative timeline, it's computing across its lifespan, essentially.
And the prediction of this, now, the prediction here would be that the power of a quantum
computer would be dictated by how long you leave it plugged in. Essentially,
its computing power would be dictated by the longer you leave it plugged in, the more
processing it has because it has more time that it's using its whole future.
That's a good point. Going back to what you were talking about earlier, I think you mentioned
P.K. Dick earlier. This is something that he writes, wrote about a lot. He has that
famous story he wrote, I think it was Man in the High Castle or something like that.
There was a series made on it, which was fascinating.
Yeah, he loved the many worlds thing. And it's a favorite of science fiction writers.
It's certainly a fun idea to think about multiple parallel realities and who knows,
that could be true too. And what I'm saying is not necessarily prohibit that.
But yeah, he's a great example, actually, of a precognitive artist. He wrote a lot
about precognition because he experienced it again and again and again in his life and in
his works. He was hyper aware of how he would write a story and then a year later what he wrote
about would come true. So an example of this would be, he wrote a story in I think 1960
too, I believe, about these entrepreneurs creating this robot Abraham Lincoln.
And no one was interested in the story, so it just went unpublished. And then a year later,
Disneyland unveiled its animatronic Abraham Lincoln. It's like one of its
perennially favorite exhibits. How many years later was this?
One year. Wow.
Yeah. But there was a million examples of like that in Phil Dick's life. I mean,
he would write about a certain idea and then he would read about it a year later. He would
read popular science magazines and stuff. And he wrote his novel, I think it's a scanner darkly,
talks about like split brain stuff, the idea of the hemispheres being split and the effects of that.
Well, like a year after he wrote that story or less than a year after he drafted his story,
he read an article about split brain research and something that he didn't know anything about
before he wrote this story. But he was doing that again and again. His novel, Ubik, was about this
fictional spray can product called Ubik, which has all these time-retarding properties
and also like affects the atmosphere in some weird way. Well, he wrote this like a couple years
before the effects of aerosols on the ozone layer people became aware of that and started
like focusing on that as a focus of ecological concern. Yes. It became like a symbol of ecology
and protecting the environment. In the 1970s, the idea of like spray cans. Well, he essentially wrote
about that a couple years beforehand. And then also the idea of retarding time was,
he read an article about that from a Russian researcher like a year after he wrote the novel.
And so he thought like, I was pre-cognizing this article when I wrote this story. And so this
happened again and again in his life. I mean, he would write about a character with a certain kind
of character and then he would meet that person in real life. His story about the Abraham Lincoln
thing, what makes it more kind of amazing that he predicted a robot Abraham Lincoln is that the
story really focuses on one of the entrepreneurs has this kind of crush on this young woman that
they hire to kind of apply makeup to the Abraham Lincoln and make it look really realistic.
All right. Well, years and years later, he wrote that story. Well, he wrote that story when he was
living in I think in the Bay Area in California, but he then moved to Orange County, which is
where Disneyland is or near where Disneyland is. And he discovered that this woman in his
apartment building worked at Disneyland and he said, oh, what'd you do? He says, oh, I apply
makeup to the animatronic Lincoln late at night to make it look realistic. It's like,
this was happening all the time in his life. And yeah, he was one of the smartest really
people about this topic of precognition. He understood that he was somehow in contact with
his. And he wrote about precognition. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. He's the guy that we get the term
pre-cog from. He wrote about pre-cogs in his story, the Minority Report, which they turned
into a movie. That was his story? That was his story. Oh, my God. Yeah. So, yeah, the idea of
precogs, you can like predict crimes and then you have a police unit that goes and prevents
these crimes from happening because they were precognized. Yeah, that's Phil Dick. Yeah, he was
an amazing, very troubled, kind of fucked up person. What kind of drugs was he on? Well,
he was on... People have this idea of him as this like super druggy. He did not, I don't think,
use hallucinogens very much. He did it? No, he used to... I think he'd tried them a few times.
I think he took a lot of amphetamines. He'd been prescribed some amphetamine when he was
a kid for some reason. And he had a lifelong, I think, maybe dependency, I think. I'm not an
expert on this. But no psychotropics. Not that you're aware of. I think he's... I'm not an expert
on that aspect of Phil Dick, but he... Yeah, I'm trying to connect the dots here to see if there's
any sort of correlation between being able to have an objective grip on what's going on here
with the brain and what correlations there are between people who are more predisposed to
this precognition than others. Well, I think that we're all precognitive. But as far as being aware
of our precognition and accessing it more consciously, yeah, definitely there's a...
There are people on a certain end of a spectrum and people in psychiatry will sometimes talk about
what's called schizotypy. And it's sort of an axis of being... Having a really powerful
imagination and being suggestible and stuff like that without being necessarily schizophrenic.
You can... There are people sort of on one end of schizotypy who are prone to maybe hearing
voices or having hallucinations occasionally, but that are still able to function and so on.
These people are... They're the kinds of people who would be shamans in some cultures. And I
think that a lot of those kinds of experiences, oftentimes those kinds of hallucinations,
those waking visions or whatever that don't fit, psychics become aware, be able to tell,
oh, wait a minute, this might come true. And often that's the case. I certainly wouldn't
say that for all or most hallucinations, but that's one way in which this can be accessed.
And people who are sort of high on that dimension of schizotypy may be prone or able to access
and be aware of precognition in their waking life more than others.
Yeah, it's also interesting. We actually had a guy in here the other day who was wrote a
bunch of books on near-death experiences. And I know there's correlations with people that
are able to have these precognitive abilities that appear after near-death experiences.
And there's this hypothesis or this theory, the brain filter theory. I forget what it's exactly
called, but it's basically the idea that the brain is a filter. The brain is there to filter out
all the things that could exist here so that we can only associate or we can only sense the things
that matter to us for our survival and reproduction and everything else. And the connection with
near-death experiences is the one thing that they do is they can sort of shut the brain down
for a period of time. And does that mean when the brain is being shut down that this filter sort
of breaks and now we can access more, more? Can we access the future? Can we access the past?
And there's multiple ways conventionally to do this, right? Meditation is a way to do this.
Psychedelics is a way to do this. Car crashes can shut down your brain.
Lightning strikes. Jeff Kriper wrote a whole book about a lady who was struck by lightning.
Elizabeth Crone. Elizabeth Crone, yeah. And she had some crazy experience where she
was drawn to the afterlife or some other realm where she could see herself laying
there on the ground dead and she decided to re-enter her body and after that she had all
these precognitive abilities, which is... Yeah, I mean, her, she's one of the most interesting
modern cases of, and well-documented cases of precognitive dreaming. I mean, she's,
you know, her, her precognitive dreams are phenomenal. Again, like, David Mandel, that's
the name of the painter I was trying to think of. Oh, okay. I told you. Yeah, he was right.
He came to him. David Mandel painting of 9-11. Yeah.
Elizabeth Crone on her own before she ever met Jeff Kripal. I mean, she learned to send herself
emails. Yeah, that's the guy. She learned to send herself. The black and white one in front of the
clock. Right. The black and white one. Right. Yep. Yep. This one. Yep. Yep. Blow that one up.
She, yeah, she learned to send herself emails, which provides a date and timestamp, you know,
and to prove to herself, you know, and to keep a record of these things. So she, yeah, she had some,
some incredible dreams. She, you know, one of them is she dreamed of an American jet
landing somehow in the water in New York. And she had this dream. She was actually on vacation in
Israel at the time. And then like a few hours later, the miracle on the Hudson occurs where
Captain Sullenberger piloted to a safe landing on the water. And the thing is,
she saw in this dream, she saw people standing on the wings. And it was like, that's impossible,
you know, but then the pictures that went viral on the internet and in the media after this event
were all of all the passengers standing on the wings waiting to be rescued. So it's that kind of,
you know, so skeptics will say, well, you know, we're going to have dreams that match
some later event just because of randomness, you know, like it's, you know, it's going to
happen inevitably because of statistics, but no, that's not how it works. I mean, it's a
precognitive dream has these very specific details that, that, you know, you can't
say that in a life of dreaming, you're going to randomly have a dream about people standing on
the wings of a plane that's landed in the water, you know, just hours before it happens in real
life. I mean, it's just skeptics who did, who throw out this possibility or dismiss this
possibility just to have not looked at the evidence. Have you noticed any, any correlation
between like the age of people who have these precognitions? I know, because there's been a
lot of recounts of children having more of this ability. I know Kripal talked about it. I mean,
that was a little bit different. He was talking about children having dreams or memories of previous
lives involving like very violent depictions of previous lives. And he, his idea about that is
that in these children's previous lives, it was, they were always males. And he thinks that they
were males because the males were more likely to die of very violent crimes and females. And
there's a connection between the trauma and this ability. Yeah. Well, I don't know about the past
stuff, previous life stuff, but that with UFO stuff. Yeah. The trauma, he's right. He calls it
the traumatic secret. And it's, you know, people who are, who are psychic or have this developed,
you know, ability, there's some trauma there, you know, Elizabeth Crone had, had trauma.
I forgot the, I lost my train of thought again. Kids. Oh, kids, right. So, yes.
I don't think, I don't know that anyone has studied this, but people who are younger are more prone
to, I think, a lot of experiences that I think are related to precognition, like out of, spontaneous,
out of body experiences, lucid dreams. I know in my own case, I used to have spontaneous,
out of body experiences and lucid dreams when I was in my teens and early adulthood.
And then later, when I became interested in this, consciously interested in this stuff,
as, you know, in my middle age, and I even like devour it for a while, I was devouring books on
like trying to induce out of body experiences. It's really hard, you know, and I was successful,
you know, twice and, you know, whereas when I was younger, if I'd been doing this stuff
when I was younger, it probably would have been really easy. Unfortunately, I wasn't interested
or I wasn't recording my dreams when I was young. So, I don't know if I was having
precognitive experiences, but I do know that my own kids, I have two small children,
they're doing this all the time. Really? Yeah. I mean, my oldest daughter,
you know, I think she was probably around three, and we were standing in a nearer field, a pasture
with some horses, and the horses, there was like four horses, and they were just ambling around,
and we were particularly interested, we liked this one brown horse, because we'd seen him before,
and she, you know, they're just ambling around in the fields, and we're just sitting there,
kind of enjoying, this was in Colorado, near my mom's house, and she said,
he's going to run from there over to there, and like, whatever, I just kind of didn't pay attention
to it. Anyway, a few minutes later, all the horses kind of slowly ambled back into their barn,
which was along, over on the right side of this big pasture. And so, we kind of like,
got up and started to walk away, and all of a sudden, that one brown horse charges out of
that barn, and ran from the right side of the pasture to the left, just exactly what she had
said was going to happen. But the thing is, this kind of stuff happens all the time, if you pay
attention to little kids, and don't have your mind closed to this possibility, you know.
Yes, so I think, yeah, I think that we're, yes, I think we all have this, and we're all,
we're born with it, it's part of our cognitive makeup, and it's always operating under, you know,
below the level of conscious awareness. And, you know, if we lived in another society that kind
of just accepted this, it wouldn't be strange at all that a kid will, you know, utter some
strange thing, and then have it happen a few minutes later, you know.
What's going on with lucid dreaming? Is there a protocol you're aware of to induce this? And
then what is the, how does that fit into everything? Oh yeah, people have written,
a ton of people have written books on lucid dreaming, and how to have lucid dreams. And I,
I'm not an expert at it, and I wouldn't want to, I mean, if you just google it, you'll find,
you know, a lot of books on it. But as far as what they are, and so on, I've noticed in my own
case that they're very often, very often precognitive, or I'm able to, whether they're more
precognitive than other dreams, I don't know if that's even a meaningful distinction, but they're,
when I have lucid dream, I always am sure to write it down, because it's very often
will relate to something that happens shortly thereafter. And I personally think that, that
so-called out of body experiences may be sort of on the same, on a continuum with lucid
dreams, that it may be that there's just some sense in which some of these dreams just feel
very much like you're in your physical environment. Because I've had a couple of,
times I was successful at inducing an out of body experience, they were incredibly
precognitive, in one case, precognitive of an event that happened exactly a year later.
I mean, it's, the stuff is really stunning when you start.
You said two times you were able to induce an out of body experience?
Yes, it was, I'm forgetting the details of the second one, it wasn't as remarkable,
but the first one was, I'd been reading one of the guides, there's a guy named Robert Bruce,
and I think he's in Australia, who writes guides to astral projections, sometimes called astral
projection. Anyway, he has a set of protocols for doing this, and involves meditating in a
certain way and kind of really focusing on your body. Ironically enough, a lot of the most,
I think, important techniques for inducing all this stuff involve really focusing on your body.
It's not like trying to leave your body, it's trying to focus on your body in this kind of
enhanced way and becoming more aware of your sensations and so on. But anyway, I was meditating
in this one way, and I had tried literally for months to do this without any success,
but anyway, this one time, I was like, holy crap, and I was out of body. This is a complicated story,
but it's kind of funny. I was out of body, and where I was was down the hall from my bedroom,
down by the floor, by an opened kind of closet, all right? And I was like staring at my wife's
shoes, because that's where she kept her shoes. And it was just the weirdest thing,
but there was a, I felt there was a weight on my back of my cat, one of my cats was somehow
sitting on my back, all right? And then, and then it shifted. So I didn't have a sensation of like
flying, but then I had a sensation of being up by the ceiling in my office, which was just
a few feet down the hall from there. I had a sensation of being up by the ceiling in my office,
looking down out the window in my office and seeing these two green lights,
like there's like almost like eyes, like looking at me, and it was kind of like, what the hell?
Anyway, I immediately, one of the instructions that Robert Bruce has is to keep your flight
short. And like, because if you stay too long, you're gonna like not wake up and you're gonna
forget it. And so you want to like keep your flights short at first. And so I like immediately,
like I sort of had this, I immediately like basically flew back to my body and woke up and
wrote all this stuff down. All right. So exactly, and I'd forgotten, by the time it came true,
I'd forgotten about it, but at least I had a record exactly a year later. I think exactly
minus a day or two is like it just slightly off from a day, from a year later. I was in that
closet that I was, I was, I had opened that closet that I talked about to get out an Advil,
actually, and I dropped it. Okay, I dropped on the ground. And I had, I worried that my cat
had eaten this Advil. All right, because that's really toxic for cats. And so I was like crawling
around my wife's shoes trying to find this Advil that I dropped. And I was really frustrated and I
couldn't ultimately find it. And so I wanted, there was a whole story where I had to take the cat to
the vet emergency room and pump her stomach and stuff like that. She was fine. But the fact that
I had had this experience of rummaging on the floor by my wife's shoes with the sensation of a cat
weighing on me, you know, I mean, she wasn't literally on me, but I was worried about my cat
because I was worried that she had had eaten this Advil. So I think, I don't know if it was that
night or the next night, I was changing a light bulb. I was up on a ladder changing a light bulb in
my office. And I looked down from that vantage point up by the ceiling in my office. And I saw
it was exactly the point of view from the second part of that out of body experience. I looked
down, I saw those two green lights reflect and I saw what they were. They was the reflection of my
power cord of my laptop created this little, it has a little green light. If you have an Apple
laptop, it has a little green light when it's charging on the power cord when it attaches to
the computer. And it was reflected, it was right up against the window. So it was reflected in the
window and there was, so it looked like two little green lights, like two little green eyes.
But I was obvious when I was looking down at it that that's what it was. So this was exactly
a year after I'd had an out of what I thought was an out of body experience with both of these,
these, you know, these two, kind of this two part out of body experience. It turned out it was
pre-cognitive. It was a pre-cognitive experience of two in body experiences a year later.
So I propose, I mean, I talk about this at the end of my dream workbook. I have no, you know,
I can't say that that's what all out of body experiences are at all. But I suggest that
people who are interested in this, consider that possibility. And when they have an out of
body experience, we'll write it down, treat it as a dream and see if it, you know, if in your real
life, you have this experience physically later. So I don't know, are all out of body experiences
that I certainly couldn't say that. But since it's happened to me, you know, it's
it, it, it, that possibility interests me. That's fascinating, man. Time loops. Well,
thank you so much for coming on, Eric. I really appreciate this has been a fascinating conversation.
Where can people find your books, find more about you, get in contact with you?
Sure. So my books are available anywhere where they're, where you obtain books on the internet.
I won't name names there, but you know, I'll link them below too. Yeah.
Give a website. I have a website, I have a blog. It's called The Night Shirt.
I don't add to it that much lately, but I have a lot of, you know, many years of articles on
precognition on my blog. And I'm on Twitter. There we go. My Twitter address is The Night Shirt,
all one word. I encourage people to follow me on Twitter. And if they want to reach out to me,
they can DM me on Twitter. That's not him. That's not me. That is not me.
There I am. There we go. Yep. And that, what you saw, what you saw there briefly was the,
my new book, which is, by the time your viewers see this, it is already out. Awesome.
And we got some stuff to talk about on Patreon as well. Okay. So we're going to keep going there,
but for everybody, thanks for watching and good night.
