Thanks for doing this, man. I really appreciate it.
Thanks for coming.
Thanks for coming.
Oh, the last minute guys.
Yeah, it's not the last minute.
It's okay. Some of the last minute ones end up being the best ones.
For people out there listening, give me sort of like a brief background on who you are
and where you came from.
So I'm Ed Latimore. I write a lot of material.
I say my model on my website and for all the content I created,
I take what I learned the hard way and I break it down so you can learn it the easy way.
And some of the things I learned via, you know, the hard way,
moderation and self-control with dealing with my alcoholism.
I have a lot of articles about dealing with that, becoming sober,
becoming sober and socializing.
Some of the things I have to face and deal with the demons that you may not be prepared for.
You may not be prepared for, prepared to deal with.
Yeah.
I'll write a lot about just improving yourself in general.
I also write about growing on social media.
We were just talking about the whole SEO idea.
And to me, it seems like a really intuitive and automatic kind of thing.
Like, okay, if I say a thing and I capture this attention and how do I make it grow?
And I'm really big on doing it without being a troll.
Like I don't talk about politics. I don't put people down.
I don't try to put any negativity out in the world.
I don't believe it.
And if you deliver value via entertainment or education,
that people will come and find you.
However, you have to have done the work to be a valuable person.
So people don't just go, oh, this is another guy spouting off.
Tomless wisdom.
I know.
Yeah.
It's very oversaturated on the social media right now with people,
you know, being gurus of this, that and the third.
Freaking entrepreneurial gurus, Gary Vee's, all those guys.
There's just so many of them.
Everyone wants to do it because they just see these guys saying these things and they
forget.
Like I'm not like 100% familiar with like Gary Vee's story.
But I know that Gary Vee didn't wake up one day and go,
I want to spot off a bunch of things and make money.
He was like, no, he wouldn't made money first and then came and said,
okay, here's some lessons to take from it and decided that was another cool place
he wants to be.
And I think that's just a natural extension of any type of hard work that a person does.
They end up there one way or the other because after you have done some things,
you get enough questions about said things.
And some people are motivated to teach in one way or the other,
whether it be one on one or to a group.
There's always some way, some, uh, some way you want to distribute value.
Yeah.
Redistribute value, I should say to people who you believe, you know,
kind of helped you come up.
But that's, that's me on my website.
Okay.
And a lot of things that I did outside of that beforehand is we talked about,
you know, how you gain this ability to say stuff that people listen to and take seriously.
I boxed professionally for six years, amateur for five before that.
Wow.
Had a great, great time, great career, especially as an amateur.
I had, I went further than I thought I would go as an amateur because I started late.
I didn't walk into a gym until I was 22, which is ancient.
But the advantage for boxing that's ancient, right?
That's a ton of story.
But the advantage is that I'm a heavyweight.
And what people have to understand is if you start boxing when you're a kid and you just keep at it with the training and everything,
you're probably not probably me, just unless you're like six, six or taller,
you're not going to put the mass on naturally.
So I was off doing other sports and getting stronger and I decided to go boxing.
I mean, you look at the top guys, the auntie waters older, I start and started older than me at that too.
I believe that so is Joshua the, there's another, another guy out there.
I can't remember his name right now.
Come to me.
But there, but a lot of guys out the heavier weight divisions, they not only start later, but then they can last longer.
One of my favorite guys that I watch who's, you know, recently is a guy named Amir Mansour.
Amir Mansour was killing guys, right?
Yeah.
He was just dropping them.
And then unfortunately Amir was out there doing some crimes and got that pinched.
I believe in something related to drugs.
Yeah.
And went away for 10 years.
Didn't get out because I'm looking at his box right where you can see everyone's record.
I'm like, man, what happened to Amir?
10 years out comes right back out at 37 and starts killing it.
Fato, he was 45.
Wow.
Great job.
I mean, the only fights, I saw him rightfully lose.
Maybe one.
He lost one fight that would have got him a title shot because he bit through his tongue and just couldn't continue.
That kind of thing was awful.
But yeah, when you, when you start heavyweight boxing, you can go a little later, but I didn't have any like natural athletic ability, I think.
And I went, went really far with that.
I had a great time.
And then I got my success as an amateur helped me move well as a pro till, you know, I went, went as far as I could at the time.
And also while I was doing that, I was enlisted in the army because, and I enlisted because I figured I don't have any skills outside of boxing.
Like I just mean, you know, I've been spending the past decade beating up people and not really gained anything.
And I know I can't beat up people forever.
Not only that, but there's not that much money in the sport.
People think we're getting paid.
I mean, my highest payday was, was not even five figures like to put that in perspective.
And that's standard.
I think Carl Frotz, he's a champion.
He did some research on this and put it together.
And he said that 97% of fighters are going to have to get a job.
Really?
After they quit.
And not just like, oh, they're not doing anything.
They know you got to get, there's no, no union.
No one cares about the fighter.
It's a, it's very much a gladiator kind of bottom of the barrel sport.
A lot of gyms are important neighborhoods and that is not a coincidence.
It's cheap.
I mean, what do you need?
Love and aggression.
I mean, a ring is optional, especially when you're coming up as an amateur.
You know, you compete in one, but I've been to some gyms where like quite literally it's
in a corner of all warehouse and someone took and use those two walls to corner is,
is, is two sides of the square.
And the other two, they put some rope around and that was all they had.
So you see that a lot in the sport.
And I just, I had an experience, this one experience.
I was walking from the gym when I was an amateur.
And for whatever reason, I left my phone in my iPod at home and that kept me looking
forward so I could see when somebody's car came up and lost control off the sidewalk
and I jumped out the way and I was like, huh, that was close.
I could lose boxing at any time.
Let me do something else with my life and start building that up.
Plus there was just the pain points and everything.
So, you know, I went and got my degree in physics while I was busy being a pro and
enlisted in the military.
And I chose physics for, for lots of other reasons.
Yeah. Why, why physics?
That wasn't the original goal.
The original goal was, was math and I chose math because I thought that I was going to
have to go to school or I thought I was going to have to work while I was boxing and go
to school, right?
So I'm already planning to be super busy.
And what ends up happening is I go to the military and the reason I figure I'm busy is
because there were going to be lab sciences and any of the sciences.
And I looked at like where all the high paying jobs were and they all need a math.
So I said, okay, you got to learn math.
That's just what's got to happen.
I go and in my military, my occupational specialty, my MOS for the military was 94 alpha.
And that means I had to go do a lot of work with electronics.
And as part of my trainer, I went through this thing called BMAT and Fort Lee,
Basic Mechanical and Electronic Theory.
And I was like, oh, this is even cooler.
I think I want to be an electrical engineer.
And all the engineers have to take physics.
And so I take physics when I start class.
And my first physics class, you got to do this thing with projectile motion.
You got to predict where a pellet is going to land with no other forces acting on it,
but gravity and the initial like acceleration and it landed where I said it was going to
land.
And I said, yo, that's like magic.
I want to do that instead.
And so that's how I ended up there.
I mean, that's pretty crazy.
I'm stuck with it because I don't, I don't really understand the idea of quitting.
I understand being beat out of something.
That's how I approached boxing.
I said, I'm going to go as long as I can.
Someone's going to have to tell me I suck or I'm going to have to get injured.
Okay.
And what ended up happening as I got injured as a pro and then my coach was like, dude,
my coach, oh, he's like, man, you're doing all this stuff.
Your life is great.
Why are you still here?
Like, do you understand that, that every time you walk in the ring, you have a chance of
being permanently altered in a way that can alter your life and not in a positive direction.
I mean, he didn't say it exactly like that, but that's kind of how I filtered it.
Basically, he's like, you know, I'm your friend.
I care about you.
I don't, you don't need to do this anymore.
And so I walked away from that and really put a lot more energy into my website and writing
and things.
And my chess game too, which is your chess game.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I started competing in chess this year.
What?
And I loved, I loved, I loved chess.
We need to get a chess table here.
I know we should have one.
I love playing chess.
I suck so bad at it.
You know what?
I'm like, I was like, well, and was progressing from, you know, where I was where I'm now.
Yeah.
I really wanted to take it seriously.
I'd always kind of just been playing on chess.com.
So I said, okay, if I'm going to, I want to talk about chess on social media.
And I'm always going to say how much I love it.
And I have to go and start competing OTB over the board.
So I started registering tournaments and working on my game.
And then that led to me getting a coach who found out and he is a great coach.
Eric Kislik for anybody listening who's looking for a international master.
He's gained that title.
And he's really, he, he, I understand the game better.
Like, like, I just, I mean, I told him what was wrong.
I was like, well, this is where I'm frustrated.
And I don't know what to do here.
And I feel lost when these things come up.
And he was like, it's okay.
And he breaks, he's got all these because, because a good teacher gets used to seeing
the same problems in the students over and over again.
And he, in chess, it was no different.
He actually had this thing drawn up.
I was like, here's what you're going to do in the semi open and open positions.
Ask yourself these questions, see what it looks like here.
And I'm like, and it changed my entire way of looking at the game.
Because before I was like, I make this move and then he makes that move.
And I had, I kind of had an idea that there was a, a strategy element, a
planning element, but I didn't really get it.
And now I see, because no one's looking far ahead.
I mean, I can't remember what Graham Astor said about, but a famous quote is,
I don't look three moves ahead.
I think about the next move and I make the correct move every time.
And I was like, wow, that's, that's profound.
And that's what it is.
Because I'm looking at the game and I'm going, okay, I see all of this stuff.
What do I focus on?
And Eric's work gave me a way to look at the game and go, I can focus on it.
So now my, my chess.com ratings are all over 15.
One is over 16.
And that's good.
That's just like, you know, my 30 minute game, my three day game, my Blitz game
in 10, 10 or five minutes.
And it'll keep getting stronger because I know it's not going to, you know,
happen overnight and I'll get as good as I can.
Maybe, maybe my limit is like 1800 and I'll never get a title.
Or maybe I could be a GM.
I don't know.
I probably can't be a GM.
Those guys mean we used to play with this guy.
There was a guy across the street from our old office in St.
Petersburg.
This guy, he would, he would come and hustle me playing chess.
Larry.
His name was Larry.
Shout out to Larry.
And he'd make me buy him.
I don't know.
What would I buy him?
Like a cigarette?
Buy a beer.
He beat us.
We would have to buy him a beer from the store.
If I beat you, you got to buy me a beer.
That's what it would be.
And the dude, he would beat me in less than five minutes every time.
He was like phenomenal at chess.
And I remember asking him, like, how, how do you think that far ahead?
I'm like, I can't even think two steps ahead.
And you're thinking literally like 20 steps ahead.
How do you do it?
And he's just like, his response was, I've done it.
I've played the game so many times, I know every way it can go.
That's basically it was like, I can't really think that far ahead.
I've just seen this before.
You just, I don't, I don't know if he, he was actually doing that.
I mean, we all think a lot of times when we're successful, we have an explanation for it.
And that explanation is an approximation filter through what we know and our level of understanding
of like how we, we learn a thing or how a thing works.
So I'm sure he thinks he is looking ahead, but the reality is, I mean, it's just,
there's probably common mistakes or patterns or whatever.
But, but chess is like, it's not the best analogy for life.
I think poker or pros fighting is probably the best analogy for life.
But chess is a pretty good analogy for life or certain parts of it because you,
you're not necessarily able to see into the future.
But what you can do is take a survey of the current landscape and go, okay,
I'm weak here.
I'm strong there.
This is a little behind.
I need to get caught up there.
He's got space over there.
So let me, let me develop over here and kind of stay away from those problem areas.
And then you just make the correct move over time, over time.
And eventually you get into a winning position.
Now there's a critical moment.
They don't make themselves obvious, right?
I mean, sometimes they do, but most times it's not going to be an outright.
Ooh, there's a checkmate.
I'm saying, no, it's like, you, now you have a chance to turn a possible,
even position into something where you have an advantage.
And then from there, you can, you know, if you continue to play well,
you crush the game.
Magnus Carlson, the current world champion says, my goal every time is to play 30
good moves.
Really?
30 good moves because there's that, that I dig and I'm not seeing ahead.
No, I'm sure like he's got tons of patterns in his mind.
He kind of knows where some things go, some things won't,
but that sums up this thinking and it's a really great analogy.
It's not that I'm looking six years ahead.
I used to say when I went back to school when I was, when I was 28,
I used to say five years are going to pass anywhere.
Right?
Am I going to, am I going to turn 33 with more options or less options?
I didn't know exactly what the options were.
Someone asked me yesterday at the conference, they were like,
you know, did you know that you were going to be standing on this stage
speaking to us?
I'm like, no, I had no idea.
In fact, if you want to know exactly what I was thinking, I said,
okay, when I was doing that, I said the average salary for someone with
physics is like 60 degrees, 60,000, but they, the variance was incredible
because there's so many things you can do with a physics degree.
And I said, I'm going to get something interesting and I'll be doing like 80
K and it's going to be a great job and I have a great life because I can finally
eat whenever I want to.
That's always when my goal is like, I just want to be able to not look at the
price of the menu.
Like, like not even ball and ether, not like, not like a Ruth Chris steakhouse
man. Like I just wanted to go out and get some Chinese food, not think about,
not think about whether my car was going to be the client or something like that.
Right?
That was just the initial goal.
So I made the right move when I looked at all the things that will hold me back
and I said, okay, well, I got pretty good discipline, pretty good communicating.
I can work hard too.
I mean, I will make sure I learned something, but I just keep losing time with
the bottle, man.
I just keep losing time being drunk all the time and hungover.
So let me do something about that.
And I said, okay, you know, we're going to be so, but we're going to do it out,
try it out.
I gave myself every, every possible advantage I could.
I went to an AA meeting and I told my friends, I said, look, man, text it on my
friends.
I said, look, I love you guys, but I'm scared.
And I'm worried that I'm not going to be able to make anything in my life.
Or maybe I'll hurt somebody if I keep drinking.
And I mean, and when I say, I mean, I may be understating how bad it was, right?
Right.
But, but no, it was bad enough to where I was worried.
And I, you know, I gave myself every single bag.
I immersed myself completely.
If it wasn't school, it was the army.
If it wasn't the army, it was the gym.
And if it wasn't that me and my girl was doing something, I was playing with my cats.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't let anything derail me.
That was recognizing that one little weakness, right?
And then from there, I'm able to make things happen.
I'm able to do work.
But, but, and, and it's important because I didn't, I didn't know I was going to
write a book about sobriety, for example.
I had zero idea, but that book has opened up opportunities for me and how did it get
started?
I had to be sober first, right?
And then I had to have a platform where people even cared.
Yeah.
I thought it was interesting.
One of your talks, I was listening to her like, like people ask me who I am.
I'm just a sober guy.
I thought that was pretty funny.
Yeah.
And these things, they just, they keep coming together.
I can build the platform because I'm not out being drunk all the time and people care
about the platform because I've done other things in my life.
And why can I do those other things in my life?
Because, oh, I'm not out being drunk all the time.
It all comes back to just making that, that, that correct move and looking for it.
You know, when I lost the fight, we were talking about before the, before we started
when I lost the fight, I lost all.
Scoot a little bit, a little bit closer.
I lost all the money, all the money.
You know, it wasn't a lot of it, but I was dependent on it.
And I entered a dilemma.
The dilemma was, well, okay, I want to finish school because I wasn't done.
I took, took time off when that happened.
And I entered him.
I need to go back to school, but I need to make enough money to pay my rent.
And I need enough time to go to school.
So I can't work full time and get a full time salary, but part time is not going to pay me anything.
Try the internships.
No one would give me anything despite all the credentials and the military advantage, whatever.
But here I am now.
What's interesting, so, so I, I was grinding for the past two and a half years.
And in that grind, I got closer to my coach and his family.
And I also had my physics and math background.
And so my coach's wife says, he can, if he can tutor math and physics, we might have something for him at the university, at the high school.
She was a guidance counselor at.
I said, well, that's all I can tutor, man.
I don't know anything else at this point.
And so at that point, I'm able to take on clients at 35, then 40, then 45, then 50.
I had to start raising my price because no one else could do it.
Normally, there are lots of tutors for lots of things, but the people who can do the math and the physics, you know, most of them have jobs.
So this is this weird kind of opening gap.
And it's the hardest subject for kids to pick up.
So everyone needs help.
And then they're in the right environment to be able to afford the prices that, you know, keep me eating and living.
But how did that start?
I had an out now.
You can get yourself into a bad situation.
But if you've been taking the correct steps before, it's easier to survive.
If I had just imagined, if I had just been boxing, doing nothing else with my life, just partying, being full after every fight, and then I lose anyway.
And I ain't got that many options to recover, to go forward.
Then I just go back to doing whatever.
Maybe it was actually, I actually took a job, right?
Because all I knew was a job, right?
This whole like working for myself thing, that experience of losing that fight, that was my baptism by fire.
Like I had to learn how to make money.
Like because, because prior to that experience, I was just used to people giving me money from my time slash service.
I didn't understand the concept of value generation and value acquisition and exchange.
I took a job before I started tutoring, where I was delivering packages for Amazon.
And every time I'm in a nice neighborhood, because that's what it was.
We go to the facility, they load up the truck.
We had to be at the facility about 5am and then we, they didn't want us on the road after sundown.
I didn't used to think that was because they cared about us.
And now I know it's just because they didn't want a lawsuit.
And I'll get to, and I'll get to know why I know that just a moment.
But, but I do this and they give me a route.
They said, this is the part of the city you're in.
Go for it.
And it was always a really nice neighborhood.
And now every time I drive through a nice neighborhood, I don't think I want to live there.
I don't think, oh, this is an ambition.
Like this is a driving force.
I think I get cold, man, because I lost a fight in September.
And then the money ran out and then I got the job in December because, because it was the holidays.
Everyone, they, they always look at anyone listening.
If you need a quick hustle and you're in the city, Amazon is always looking for people.
Like, and there's tons of shifts because people are born more in the center more stuff.
They need more bodies.
Right.
And I was one of those bodies and I did that and I got, I mean, I just think cold.
I'm like, ooh, and I go, man, I'm so happy that I'm not there anymore.
But how do I know that they just want to avoid a lawsuit and that, that, uh, limitation on the hours to work?
How do I know that's not a, uh, an altruistic thing?
So I was delivering packages one day.
This was my last day, by the way.
I deliver in packages one day and I get out and the car, there's a malfunction and the transmission gives in it.
Rolls down the hill.
Thank goodness it was like 630 in the morning and no one was outside.
I actually rolled into someone's garage, like the, and the outer part of the garage.
So everyone was all good.
Yeah.
And what did they do?
They sent a, um, they sent another driver out.
I was like, oh man, they're going to rescue me.
They'd be like, all right, get your packages and load them into this truck.
We got to finish this route.
I'm like, hold up.
Y'all don't want to know if I was drinking.
Like, no, because that's what's supposed to happen on any type of accident involving vehicles and job.
They're supposed to, you know, make sure you're not drinking and, and talk to you like right there.
No, we, right on the road, we start delivering stuff and then we finish it.
And then this is what I was like, okay, this is unacceptable.
I got to do something else.
Uh, I had to listen to this woman all day.
You ever, you ever know, you don't know those people that just everything is like, I wish they would.
And then they do it and nothing happens.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
It was that kind of thing.
It was like, you know, they complained about the route.
She's talking about she's going to quit this or the other.
And I got a feeling about halfway through.
I was like, this is every day.
So they gave me the day off.
Okay.
The next day.
So, and then they said, are you going to come in?
They was like, you know what?
This is it for me, man.
It was only like $11 an hour.
I said, I said, I'll figure this out.
I don't know how I'm gonna figure it out.
But at that point, I knew I had to.
So that's how you kind of get.
Was this in Pittsburgh?
This was in Pittsburgh.
Wow.
And then, you know, it, my life always flashes for my eyes when I think about it.
Because I think, what if I had been like right behind that van?
What if there were have been some people out or something like that?
And I just go, you know what?
I'm not going to ignore it.
Like, I'm a big, not a big believer, I guess.
I have a moderate level of belief in the idea that there are signs from the universe.
And maybe those signs aren't forward acting.
It's not like you're someone saying, do this, do this.
No, it's like, okay, here's what happened.
You got a choice now.
And if you make the right choice, this ain't going to happen again.
If you make the wrong choice, not only is this probably going to happen again, but it's
probably going to happen worse or at least exact a steeper toll from you if you don't
do it.
Because what do they say?
You know, if you, if you don't learn a lesson, you're just going to keep getting the test
over and over again until you learn the lesson.
Right.
And as long as you don't learn it, you can't graduate to the next level.
So I think I learned the lesson.
Wow.
I loved the analogy you made on that one talk that you did about the mountain climber.
Don't be the, don't worry about being, don't be the mountain.
You want to be the mountain climber.
That really, that really inspired me.
I liked that one.
Can you explain it?
Can you explain that one?
Oh, for sure.
You know, I think a lot of times people let things just happen.
As opposed to making things happen.
It's the whole, are you a subject or an object or my favorite way to put it.
If you ever seen other departed at the beginning when Jack Nicklaus is like, everyone says,
you know, you're going to be, you're a product of your environment, but I want my environment
to be a product of me.
And that, I mean, of course, I love that movie in general, but that is one of those things
that just really sticks for you.
That idea that you're not, you're not a passive kind of participant or just a passive like
thing in life.
You're an active participant.
And that was the whole idea behind the mountain versus the mountain climber.
The mountain is passive.
People climb the mountain.
The mountain is, you know, it is what it is, man.
Wherever the, wherever the mountain is, he's stuck too.
But the mountain climber can move.
We can go up, but when, but what's the trade off?
Is that when you calm them out in, that's a lot of work.
There's a lot of risk involved.
You can fall.
You can get lost.
People die, calm them out all the time.
But, but when you get to the top, you've done a thing that, that a lot of people won't
ever do.
They won't even try it.
Many of them are terrified.
And the ones who do try, they, they fell for many reasons.
Many of which, not all, but many of which are due to their own decisions.
You know, sometimes you get a lucky, you put your foot in a cobra hole and that's it.
Right.
It ain't always that way, but sometimes there you go.
Right.
But, but barn things that you can't control, you know, when you maximize control over the
things you have the ability to affect and you get to the top of the mountain, you've
done a really powerful thing for yourself and for how you see the world.
And I think if people do more things that are difficult or challenging, they, they push
themselves.
Do it.
You know, was there a time, was there a time where you felt you were at the, the peak, you
were at the summit of a mountain and you had like, you were like really riding high.
Oh yeah.
You know, and then, and was that, was that with boxing or?
That was with, with, with boxing and making money online.
Those are the, those are the two big examples recently.
Well, and with boxing, you know, you get a humble and you get a humble part to, you know,
you don't, you don't just cod to get a humble, right?
Everyone, you know, those, those, that negative feedback will pushes you down quick and, and
it pushing me.
I went from being a guy who was like a social media person on there for all of my boxing
and talking about stuff to a dude delivering packages with Amazon.
Like that is me.
I mean, you went to my humiliating and then before that, right?
Before delivering the package, I was actually working in the warehouse.
Right.
Right.
So I'm just kind of like laying low, hoping no one recognizes me.
Well, how about the losers at grandeur, right?
Hope no one, no, no one recognizes me, right?
Yeah.
No one cares.
You know, everyone's there for their own things.
Not like anyone.
But, but that is a great example of getting dragged and we think you're doing well and
you get knocked down.
What are you going to do?
Are you going to get back up?
You got to figure out a way to survive.
You're just going to, just going to take that.
Right.
I think a lot of people in that situation and I've seen it, they take that.
I was like, this is not good.
And I got to get out of here.
Same.
What, you know, I think in my, my, when I was in school, uh, I was doing really well.
I was doing so well and I was so close that I said, I'm going to take four higher level
classes at once.
The last four classes I need to graduate.
It was what was it?
Mechanics, Electromagnetism, Solid State Physics and Thermodynamics.
I took all of them at the same time and, and I just, I was killing me.
And I said, okay, but I'm going to figure this out.
Right.
Because, because no one ever admits to themselves how bad it is until they, they can't.
And then some people deny it.
Other people go, oh, gotta do something.
Well, the reports came out and they were like, yo, you, you're failing on your classes.
Teach the call.
Like professors that have been following me and talking to me, call me and was like,
is anything okay?
Is everything okay?
Whatever.
And finally, I, you know, I have to look in the mirror and go, you know what?
I can't do this.
Uh, let me stop.
And I went and told my advisor and she's like, you know, when you told me you wanted to do
this, I didn't think you were going to be able to succeed.
I was like, so why'd you let me do it?
She goes, well, I'll try to be supportive and encouraging.
And, and now you know, and, and plus now we got some feedback on how another, how I can
work and all that.
But I got dragged and I finished it.
I mean, talking about hustle and really busting my ass, but I got in there and I finished
the two classes I kept on a C and I was like, wow, that's really, that drags you.
Cause now, you know, I have those C's and I have no desire to go to grad school, but
like, I go, okay, humbled and dragged, humbled and dragged.
You make a lot of money and then your next sale, no one buys anything.
You think that's happened.
I mean, I remember the first time I made five figures in a month and I said, oh, I'm the
man.
Right.
Let me just do this again.
The same way.
And I try and I barely cracked four and then you're like sick.
You wonder what happened.
You wonder what did, and then I started asking that I get luckier.
I'm not just bad and you start questioning yourself and, but a lot of guys, they don't
may move forward.
They don't, and I, they don't seek outside help.
I think that's like the biggest issue there too.
Right.
Like back to the mountain climber analogy.
If you're climbing the mountain and you and your gears busted, there's a hole in your
parka, man.
You bought the dye.
You out of food.
And another guy comes by looking all shiny and clean and he's like, Hey man, do you need
some help?
If your process?
No, I'm good.
Are you like bleeding out?
Yeah.
It's just a matter of time.
You know, whatever he, the help was offered and you passed and now suffer.
But if you look, dude, I am in bad shape.
Help me.
All right.
And I try to do that whenever I can now because the more, the more times you, you rod high
and get knocked down and it happens, no matter what, like, cause I'm sure something great
is going to happen again.
I'm gonna feel like I'm king of the world and I'm getting knocked down.
You know, the difference between now, though, when it happens as an adult with some experience
with this cycle versus being a teenage or not even teenagers, the younger adult is that
now I don't boast, brag, whatever.
I just kind of go, Ooh, looking kind of nice today.
Let's hope this continues and go away on like, you know, one of the things I did, you know,
when I fought on TV, I went and told everybody and I just kept telling him over text or social
media, whatever, you lose in front of the whole world and not really embarrassing fashion.
And that flips the script entirely because look, if you hadn't done that, if I hadn't
told everyone, realistically, no, most people wouldn't have known, right?
Like, no, I would love to think everyone, you know, is tuning in, but realistically,
most people know.
I brought all that pressure on and now it's like, Oh, I got to, I got to deal with that.
I got to deal with how I feel about it.
You know, fortunately, I, you know, I wrote in an article, you know, eight things I learned
losing on TV and one of the things I said was that heaven and hell are like analogous
to what happens when life is going good and life is going poorly.
And when life is going poorly, you get the type of attention and energy you put out into
the universe when things were going well.
And if you want to be, if you want to take that even less abstract, how you treat people
when you don't have to treat them well is how they're going to treat you when you are
right.
Well, and so, and because I'm a big guy on like support positivity, giving back very
grateful for everything in my life.
You know, I didn't have a, I didn't have a bunch of people, you know, killing me.
If you watch the social media comments after some of these guys who lose when, when they're
real A-holes, oh man, it shows you people, people may act nice, but the reality is if
you cross, you don't even have to cross somebody, if they just, if they don't like you and you
give them reasons that is like you, they are going to, they just, they're licking their
chops for when things go wrong.
Oh yeah.
When they go wrong, they are going to remind you and they are going to, and they'll never
be able to forget.
You've done social media too.
You know, and I don't, I don't bring out the haters, at least not nearly as bad as anyone
else on social media.
I think in terms of like controversial personalities, I'm relatively tame.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And let me tell you, I remember when I, when I, when I, when I lost, no one on Twitter
really bugged me.
Not that much every now and then someone go, oh man, your head must still be ringing from
that.
When you say when you lost, did you only lose one time?
I lost one time as a pro.
I want to hear that story, but professional boxing is, is y'all, there's so much, so much
to it.
I'll jump right in.
So you lost like one televised match.
Yes.
Okay.
Because, you know, that unless you, so, so everything is like, what have you done and
why should we give you this thing?
Right.
If you've done well, we give you more things and we continue to see if you're worth it.
And eventually we get to a point where they're like, okay, well, we've invested in you.
We're going to take our punnifest plus back, right?
And that's what a good contract does.
A good contract shouldn't have the fighter, I hate to say it like this, but this is what
it is.
A good contract usually puts the fighter in a bit of an indentured server to position.
Right.
The difference being now that the fighter can walk.
Now, when the fighter walks on a contract, he can't fight for like, not, no, I've seen
it nine to 12 months, though, they won't even let you fight.
Anyhow.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
Afterwards?
If you walk on a contract, yeah.
Okay.
If your, your terms are up or it's like a mutual release, you know, but they, a lot of times
that's just put in there.
If you act like a, if you act like a bad person, I don't know how, how R rated my speech can
get, but I'm just going to keep it, keep it nice and PG 13.
If you act like a really bad person, that's just a way for people to kind of protect their
investment and or make your life annoying.
But so I get the contract, a professional contract when I was, and I have to, well, we're
going to break some boxing game down, right?
I don't know how much you know about boxing, but everyone's going to get a nice little
lesson about the fair share, nice little lesson about the business end of things.
Okay.
So there are shows and shows or a fighter's fight and those shows are put on by promoters
and the fighters on those fights are managed by managers.
And for a while, you used to be able to have the manager and the promoter be the same entity
no longer.
That's just, that's illegal.
You can't do it anymore.
And I don't remember that.
I think it's part of the Muhammad Ali act, but I'm not, I'm not 100%.
Is there a specific reason for that?
Well, sure.
It creates conflict of interest for, you know, sometimes that's okay.
Well, I, we're like, if I'm manager, so what happens, right?
So you have a manager and a promoter is acting as one entity and he brings a fighter on and
he manages one fighter that's going to fight another fighter.
And the promoter knows, right?
Cause how's the promoter get paid to promote it gets paid when the tickets are sold and
the manager just gets a cut of the winnings.
Okay.
And all.
So it, there is no reason if you have both of those guys work together, there's no person
fighting to get the highest purse for the fighter because the promoter is always going
to take a cut of the whole thing.
Okay.
That makes sense.
It, it put, it removes the lever and it's really to protect the fighter.
I mean, the manager would love to be the promoter, but that's, that's really what it comes down
to is that kind of thing.
Okay.
So those are, those are three big players, the promoter who puts the fights on the manager
who gets the fighter, the fight a lot of times or is the promoter now, now they figured
out come some kind of ways to work around this, but we'll get to that and the fighter.
Okay.
All right.
So the promoter is always looking to get promoted by a big promoter, top rank, goal and boy.
Those are the two guys that come up to my right now, Dazen or Dizon.
If you're familiar with any of these guys, those are the promoters.
They have these big old shows.
They have all the other ones that sell the tickets, put the money up, take the risk.
And then the manager is like, we're trying to get you signed with a promoter because
then a promoter is like, okay, we want you on for like, you know, three shows and we're
going to make money with you and all that.
And the fighters are like, all right, well, here I am.
And here's a cut of my earnings.
I'm the one taking out a risk.
But there you go.
So the better you fight and the better your resume, whether it be through amateur
accomplishments, like a national title or an Olympic medal or whatever, the sooner
you get signed by a promoter, because everyone wants to get signed by a promoter
because the promoter, now this is changing just a little, but the promoter is the one
that won their name is on it.
And they have all the connections like the TV dates, right?
Now TV is becoming a little obsolete because everyone's switching the apps.
The zone took a big risk and it really paid off.
They have a huge, just a huge base.
Nine ninety nine a month compared to a one hundred dollar one time pay per view.
And even if even if you only have two pay reviews, that's as you know, two hundred
dollars as opposed to a nine ninety nine a month thing.
And people don't think like that anyway, right?
Even they don't break the math.
Not a goal.
Okay.
Well, all they see is this only nine ninety nine a month.
Of course I get this.
Look, man, I've only watched like four of my disowned like fights one.
But but it's only nine ninety nine a month.
I don't think about it.
It just comes out of my account.
So that's what they want to get.
They want to take it because they the promoters done all that work to build
this platform to have these guys come and fight.
And the sooner you get that, that's everyone's goal.
Because anyone can fight on a local show.
That's what I did.
You fight on these local shows and build up.
But what's the local show limited by space?
You can only get, I mean, well, five hundred people, maybe into a good venue
until you start getting like MGM grand and bigger places, which the big promoters
pay for and they take the risk and put up where you can put, you know,
10,000, 15,000 bucks in the seat as you can make a lot of money.
Yeah. So I didn't get.
I just had a manager when I started.
And then that manager got me a deal with a promoter.
And my promoter then put me on all these different shows as their
movement and development between me, somewhat acting like a manager.
But but not really.
But because I've worked with a new promoter, Rock Nation Sports.
And they hadn't really, they were putting on shows, but they were in the meantime,
developing the fighters they saw by letting them fight on other shows.
OK, because the promoter doesn't always have to let you fight on someone else's
show. He's like, I paid for you.
You know, I'm trying to invest you.
But they're doing that to develop on these local shows, smaller shows,
bring the opponent in, pay the opponent all that good stuff.
Right. And then they have a TV date.
So that's how you get on TV without a TV date, without.
Look, without a TV date or the Internet now with Dazzy, you got
no challenge, you'll be you'll be fighting for peanuts for your entire career
because there's just no way to make more money.
And it's crazy when you talk to some fighters who don't understand this,
literally this when I just broke down, who don't understand this,
they complain to a local promoter, everybody that's a local promoter.
He tells me all the time he goes, these guys, they want more money all the time.
And I'm like, well, there's a very much a cap on how much money you can give them.
But and they don't understand that.
So that's how that that goes.
The manager in the fighter, right?
And so and so everyone's dream is to get a promoter with TV dates
and a bigger reach or access to bigger venues, because that's where the money is.
At least in America, in Europe, it's a bit different.
But the Europe, the Europe, they're not competing with the NFL,
the NHL, MLB and the NBA, the big four.
So so fighting is still the fight is just received better.
There's just there's more money.
There are more people who watch it.
Yeah, it's it's on more networks way more.
And also, this is really awesome to the United States.
People go, oh, wow, wow, we suck in boxing in the Olympics all of a sudden.
Well, we're competing against countries where one, the best athletes
aren't being taken to the grid on or the basketball court, for example.
And they also pay for the coaching the fighting systems
or the fighting system, the sports are subsidized by the government.
So, you know, the story about
Gennady Golovkin, he is a great fighter out of his country.
I think Kazakhstan or Uzbekistan.
It's one or the other.
So, you know, people who watch, you know, yeah, he's wrong.
And great fighter does all these things.
I think he won a medal.
I'm not sure, but he wants to go pro and he wants to fight in America.
And so normally, when that happens in America, a fighter stays
with the same coach from amateur to professional because that makes sense.
He put that time and that investment he trained the kid when the kid
quite was not even capable of earning, right?
He wants to stay and now he earns and now he gets a cut.
Well, not so much in these places where the where the coach is paid.
So he's like, well, I'm not I'm not leaving.
I have a great thing here.
You kidding? Yeah, I produced you.
Right. I'm not going to pay me more now.
Why would I leave?
So he gets he's got another coach.
And, you know, I think his coach is the guy
got him able, Sanchez out of California and like able to train him as an amateur.
It was just got him when he was a pro. Wow.
And that's why.
Because a lot of these guys when out of these other countries, man,
they do well because they have.
They take care of the fighters when they train.
That's really important because because unlike professionals,
amateurs don't earn any money, right?
So they got to do something to earn money.
And that something, assuming it's legal,
that something takes time away from them, even if it's ill, right?
It takes time away from training, right?
But they don't have that issue in other countries.
So it is just walking into a very competitive situation.
Wow. I had no idea that the sport was subsidized in countries like that.
If you look, I mean, I think what the United States.
We don't do that with any sports here.
Do we? No, I was OK.
Well, well, well, do we for for Olympic level sports?
No, but look at it.
Look at the way we do our football and our baseball.
We don't call it subsidized in the sport.
What we do is we call it a scholarship.
All right, for college.
Well, yeah. And then, and, you know, now the NCAA has.
Yeah, and that dude, I can't.
Oh, in California, right?
Now they pay college. Oh, my God.
Florida is proposing the same legislation, really, which is a big deal.
But that's huge when California did it.
The NCAA was like, OK, you're big California,
but we're not going to allow you to participate if you do this.
And they did it. So now that's where they were going.
If Florida comes on board, now they have a hard decision
because those are two really big rem.
A lot of powerhouse schools in both places.
And then after that, it's only a matter of time.
Bob, Texas is probably going to follow suit.
Oh, for sure.
And then the NCAA is going to be forced to make a very big choice,
but they won't need.
What are you going to do?
You going to block out the big buyers?
All right, the big schools.
And they're doing it in such a way
that the coaches don't have to feel threatened
because they're not saying you're going to pay the students.
What they're saying is they can make money off of their likeness.
Right. And that's a really big deal.
Oh, is that what it is?
OK, so the so the colleges aren't paying them.
They're not going to pay them.
What they're going to do, they make so much advertising money off them.
It's crazy, crazy.
So so so this is this is nuts, right?
As is an athlete, but we're going to use football.
So when I say this, anyone listening, right?
I'm talking about NCAA football.
I don't know how it works for anyone else,
but but I know that football brings in the most money.
So this is the most football and basketball, most relevant.
If you're a big time player, you're not allowed to work.
You're not allowed to take money. Right.
So how are you supposed to get money?
What are schools supposed to cover you?
OK, and that's that's kind of cool.
But look at how much money the schools make off of a player that gets big time.
Oh, it's insane. Even a player gets small time.
I spoke at the University of South Carolina this year.
And one of the things they were telling me,
God just took a tour of the school.
I spoke to the football team and took a tour of the facilities and everything.
He was saying to like, these guys are like rock stars because of the Internet.
Kick guys have three posts and 50,000 followers.
Yeah, because everyone just goes because they just go and look at the website
and see the roster and load them up.
And then we're all saying the other big issue is everything.
Everything comes with a price.
Right. The other big issue is that these guys, they can't because they're
their teenagers, they don't have the discipline to be like,
I'm going to ignore those comments.
It's already hard enough for adults. Oh, yes.
Oh, some guys in the NBA still can't even hold back on it.
Right. And so you expect an 18, 19 year old kid with all this attention
to ignore. But yeah, so that's the big deal now.
And that's what annoys me about football fans in general.
They'll always complain like I'm mainly the old white guys.
They'll be like, oh, these fucking guys can't keep their mouth shut.
They just fucking spat.
These guys are millionaires, but they're idiots.
Like, dude, this guy is 20 years old.
And people forget that, right?
Because we correlate a lot of a thing with Tom and experience.
And they have the experience.
Right. Absolutely.
And they have the time invested in such a small amount of space.
Yeah. I mean, most people are never going to get to the point
in their career where they're capable of earning seven figures
right in a single calendar year.
Yeah. If you can do that as an athlete.
Yeah. Of course, people are people going to look and they're going to know,
well, well, why can't you why can't you stop smoking weed?
Right. Right. Yeah.
That was a big deal with the stillers, right?
They caught them in the city.
Labion Bell at the airport.
Yeah. And look, they're off the weed.
Stephen. And so it's funny on the one hand, like, you're like, OK, dude,
clearly you're you're an a-hole.
You can't stop smoking weed on the other.
And you got to remember, you're talking to a 22 year old. Exactly.
He just happens to be famous.
And right. You know, no one gives.
Think of it this way, think of rock stars.
Same thing. Oh, yeah. The difference is they're rock stars.
Right. They're allowed.
They're allowed to do cocaine and smoke weed and smoke crack.
Whatever they want. When I was when I was at the height of my training,
I said in the next life, I'm going to be a rock star.
I'm not going to be. I'm going to be Rick James.
I'm going to be an athlete because being an athlete is like
being an athlete is like Adam and Eve and Apple.
You get this nice guard and you get all this stuff.
And there's that apple.
And that apple is.
Drinking. Yeah.
Every stand out all night, partying with fans.
Yeah. People who want to buy you stuff.
Girls who don't even care to if you learn their name.
Yeah. And God, the person who gives you your athletic ability
and all this talent. Yeah.
He goes, you can have anything in the garden.
Just don't eat the apple.
That's all you got to do.
And you can stay.
And what do you do?
What's the first thing you want that apple?
Oh, my God.
There's carrots. There's pears.
You could kill the animals if you figure out fire.
And you eat that apple.
You know, it's like, hey, man, that's it.
You got to go.
So it's I'm really looking forward to how that changes
the athletic landscape for sure.
Because at the end of the day, and here's the other thing,
too, when people argue back and they go, well, we're giving them scholarships.
We're giving them scholarships.
Of course, that's great.
And I'm like, have you been to have you seen with these guys majoring?
Yeah, like they're not.
Yeah, no.
So I don't know why they don't.
They're not taking the education.
It's not right.
Not only are they not majoring in anything useful, what they are studying.
They're not taking it seriously.
And on top of that, the school is more interested in the money.
Exactly. So so what are they going to do?
They're not going to flunk them outclass.
Right. Then no one.
When's the last time you heard of somebody never getting on academic probation?
He didn't play on Sunday or something.
Academic program. Right.
Right. That didn't happen.
Now, now if you can't do anything, you just take it.
I was like, put you.
Yeah, yeah.
That's how it is, man.
The other thing is, like, when I was that age,
like, I can't remember how much of a dumb ass I was when I was that age.
When I was that young, like in my late teens, early 20s.
And then imagine just having that massive microscope on you
with millions of people watching you every moment,
scoping in on everything you post on social media, all the comments.
And then on top of that, give some young, you know, ignorant,
cocky kid millions of dollars.
That's going to fuck them up even worse mentally.
You know what I mean? It's going to ruin them.
Yeah. Check this out.
I learned I would like to think at this point in my life, I am.
I'm above average at managing money.
And I say above average because now my money does not just I'm
pat on way past blowing it.
But it doesn't just sit in my bank account either.
I like put it in a place where it can do a thing for me.
Right. I'm not like up to investing in stocks.
Yeah. But I try to use my money and let it go.
What do you do? You got real estate?
No, I guess it technically start.
I have acorn, right? Acorn takes 25.
I count and puts it someplace and I checked it.
I've been doing it for a year. I was like, wow, I think I made like 40 bucks off.
It is. It's not a lot. Yeah.
But but it beat inflation. Yeah.
So it's kind of cool. That is cool.
So so I'm a I'm above average. Hell, yeah.
When I was 18, my dad died when he died.
His life insurance gave me $55,000.
What I didn't even and it gave me now.
My mom to hold me gave me because I was an adult at 18 in 18 months.
I was overdrawn the account and sleep on the floor.
And and do when I look at like what I have to show for it.
It's not like I had a I mean, I bought myself a chain and some stupid clothes.
A lot of fast food. I didn't even drink that. I mean.
Oh, I mean, I because I was in college.
I was drinking other people's alcohol.
I look at I was buying fast food, man, the Chinese food place.
They knew me by first names, Domino's, all that good stuff spending.
I had no concept of like what made sense to bond,
what did not make sense to bond, where to put money.
And so that's that's me from the type of environment
that a lot of these guys are from.
And I got all I got all relative to like an NFL contract was 55 K.
And I couldn't even hold on to it for 12 for 18 months.
I mean, that's what I have. God, it's funny and retrospect.
What a lesson.
That was expensive lesson in money management. Damn.
In retrospect, hilarious.
Like, oh, man, look at look at 18 year old me.
I can't figure it out. Meanwhile, I remember when I was 19,
I was I was living on my own floor sleeping on it
because she already had a bunch of people living with her.
I wasn't going back home at all.
Not not because of shame or anything.
Who's Lord you say you were living with my aunts?
You're on. OK, you weren't getting along with your mom or what?
Oh, no, no, we were. I mean, that's another story in itself
while we weren't getting along and we can touch on that, too,
because that's probably some very powerful lessons about forgiveness in there.
Yeah. But when I'm doing that and I need to eat during the day,
during the evening, I would just go for this girl's house.
I was dating. I'm a I mastered the art of being a hobo sexual.
That's what he is. He's a hobo sexual.
You get your girlfriend or your girlfriend's parents to feed you.
You can be all right if you get in that game.
But I was doing it. They had to eat something.
I had a list of CVS's and right age.
I would go in and I figured out how to slide some pringles.
I used to. That's what I used to say. I used to steal pringles.
And some, I think it was like Fago pop, right?
And I would put that in my in my pocket.
And that's what I would eat during that day. Damn.
And I was really good. I knew the camera angles, everything, man.
And, you know, you got to survive.
Look, it was either that or not eat, right?
No, no, no, not at all. I'm like, what's funny?
No, I'm real big into intermittent fasting.
You could just fasted the whole time fast before, you know?
I remember one day of my friend and I was like, yo, is that home?
Because I because I was like wearing the same thing.
Yeah. Days and the facial hair I had at 19 was
really I look a little rough.
But lessons you learn. Yeah.
Heart lessons, fun lessons.
I think I will never do again.
Not only will I never do it again, but I'll never have a relationship
with my children when I have them where they don't think they can come home.
And then I'm comfortable because that's just a rough time.
My mom, you know, I wrote about this to my email list.
I just told my story and she was like, I don't know why you wouldn't come home.
And I'm like, yes, you do.
And it's crazy.
I had I had a lot of issues with my mom.
Some of them was just, you know, my my personality and what happened.
But in our and how it happened, you clash with another personality.
But a lot of it is so my mom was not.
Matured or emotionally, mentally, I think, physically, she was an adult
and had me so by definition, right, mature there.
But I'll never forget when I was 11.
The 11 years old is when I realized I was going to have to take care of myself
because she gets drunk and gets into a fight with this woman in history.
And I remember standing between her and the door saying, don't go outside.
Like just to stand here.
Yeah, listen and goes and gets arrested and we have to deal with that.
And at that point, I was getting arrested.
Yeah, she beat the ladies ass or what?
Oh, yeah.
And then in retaliation, we woke up to all this garbage dumped on our porch.
It was ridiculous. Oh, my God.
And then we had to do it, you know, and then we had to do it with her kids,
you know, trying to fight us.
It was stupid. Oh, my God.
But like I remember going, this is the I was I was even on 11.
I had enough where we're thought to understand what the dynamic
between a parent and the child should be.
And I said, you, you and your lack of discipline, you, you abandon us.
And that's what I felt.
And then that that was the tipping, not tipping point, but that was really a start of it.
I didn't realize how badly, how poorly behind, how far behind I was
until I got to high school.
And I had to really fortune.
I got the fortune of just we we living in something called a magnet system.
I don't know if they have something like that here.
But if you apply and you meet the criteria,
you can go to any high school that is not your region's high school
will feed you in within the city.
And I had enough sense that I cannot continue to go to school in this area
because I'll either end up becoming a kingpin or a killer,
but no situation is going to turn out well for me if I continue going here.
So I got to go to this other school.
And for the first time, it was the first time I'd ever been in a home
where like a husband and wife lived and raised kids and they had a house
and it was out the projects.
I mean, I was like, I was floored.
And what happened is that over time,
watching how my mom continued to behave
and the options that I was given or I felt like I didn't get in the show,
I didn't get a lot of options and nothing.
I mean, literally nothing.
Yeah, I think about that I was exposed to me.
We always had like food for the most part, right?
But yeah, but never the ability to explore anything.
Besides, you know, go to school, come back, go to school, come back.
I was like, this is messed up, but I just got angry or angry.
And then I thought about a lot of other stuff, too.
And that I've where I felt like the ball was was dropped.
You know, some people that we were we were around growing up
like one of the articles I was talking about, like being raised by crackheads
that that really well, you know, she wasn't a crackhead,
but we were babysat by crackheads and around them.
And you said you mentioned to me that you knew it crack smoke
smelled like and you're like sick of it or something.
Oh, yeah, I mean, you you you you see these things
and you don't think anything of them until you see how it could and should be.
That's what I was there.
I was just like, OK, everybody's messed up.
Whatever, right? Everyone, you have to fight all the time, right?
And I felt like because I and then I had a friend
so I got to see like what his mom did, you know, getting out and working hard.
And and it just it made me so angry one day to think about a lot of the abuse
that ended up suffering and dealing with.
And so I said that there's no way I'm going to go back.
I'm not going to get along there.
We have a very different way of seeing things.
I have a very big I'm really good about dealing with the future,
at least better and continue to try and get better.
And she isn't very much instant gratification.
Very much very emotional.
So I left and I spent time being very angry.
And then one day I figured out and it was it was affecting
how I would deal with her when I saw her.
So you went like on your own, you moved away and oh, yeah.
You know, since I was 18, I've moved I moved home one time
and because I needed to go home and I just I had it was a rock bottom point
that we talked about. Yeah. And it only lasted four months
because right around month three, I was or maybe one or two.
I was like, this is a problem.
I will I will suffer out there.
I'm going to suffer no matter what basically is what I thought.
I said, well, let's suffer in a way to hopefully build some character
and doesn't have me think about doing something crazy.
But. I got tired of being angry.
I got tired of being angry.
And it wasn't consistent with the way my kind of philosophy
about the world was developing, which is very much the responsibility
for how you feel and your environment and how you think about things.
So I was like, I started to dive into forgiveness and forgiven.
And now it is it is very much if you want to talk about like my spiritual
yeah, system, yeah, all based on forgiveness.
OK, the book A Course in Miracles.
And one of our people asked me like, oh, what books should should I read?
What's your book recommendation?
I have three books.
The Tower of Jeet Kune Do by Bruce Lee for your body,
the art of learning for your mind and a course in miracles for your heart.
Course in miracles, the Course in Miracles.
And it may mean the whole premise.
I won't get into the whole premise.
It's kind of kooky.
But the basic idea is that forgiveness is the only way you can ever be at peace.
Right. And you just but you but forgiveness is an act.
It's not a thing.
You just want to be forgiven.
No, no, you have to work at it.
And there's a way to work at it.
And it really much very much influenced how I was able to work through a lot of problems.
How like now when I look back at some of my behavior, when I was drinking,
how that affected things because when you stop drinking and you look
back at yourself when you're sober, you go, holy hell, that guy was a problem.
And you feel bad.
You feel bad about the way you talk, the way you treated some of the things
you did, the risk you took, the lives you put in danger, the people you annoy,
the friendships you strained, all of that.
You feel bad about all of it.
And I don't have those moments that much anymore.
But when I first stopped drinking, I would have a lot of them.
OK, but I dealt with them by forgiveness.
I had to learn to forgive myself.
I always say you got to forgive three things to be at peace.
You got to forgive yourself.
You got to forgive the world.
You got to forgive the people who wronged you.
It's it's easy to complain that the world is one way, you know, I understand
what you say about people that wronged you.
But what do you mean about forgiving yourself?
Like, what do you what do you mean by that?
OK, so so we think.
I think a lot of times we feel guilty.
This this is my idea about guilt.
And I may or may not have got this from the book like guilty.
Right. Like I didn't go to the gym today.
I feel guilty about that.
Or I went out and got fucked up last night.
And right.
Now, now I think that's a general state of disappointment.
But when I when I talk about guilt, I think we feel guilty about a thing
that we've we've done something and we think we got away with it.
We think we got to benefit without without paying the cost.
Got it. Right.
We it's why they talk about like people who turn themselves in for crimes.
They do it because I really think there's a part of the population
and probably a significant part.
It might be part of being human that we don't do well when we know
that equality is kind of an illusion and we know that there should.
But we do know that fairness is not, I think, intuitively and internally.
We know that for X, there should be some kind of minus X ish.
Yeah, a response.
And if you get the X, you feel you feel guilty.
If you. Right.
You want to talk about even even at the I don't think you feel guilty
so much for missing the gym as you do for not having your physique
immediately go to shit, right?
Not like whenever you miss the gym and you immediately got, you know,
you put on 10 pounds and you got to hang out.
You're going to feel like, OK, that's what was supposed to happen.
Yeah. Right.
But if you if that doesn't, then you feel bad.
And then it keeps going and you're like, oh, man, I know.
And then eventually you either start going to the gym.
Are you accept the new state of things?
Right. Because your mind can't reconcile.
Now, on the flip side, you would know something's really wrong.
If you were pounding it out every day in the gym, but nothing was happening.
It was awesome.
And that's another issue, right? Right.
But the whole guilt thing comes when we think we've done something wrong
and we have not all we think we got some benefit without putting in the work
to put it in the work or we acquired it in a moral way or a moral way.
And I don't like the word of moral or something more quantitative.
We acquired it in a way where the other people didn't know that they had to pay
for right, OK, which is why Lyon makes us feel guilty.
We got away with it.
We didn't have to deal with the conflict.
But now the other person kind of has to bear bear the weight of the beer.
I'll suffer. Right.
They have to pay.
And so you forgive yourself.
Like for me, it was a perfect example in my life.
I think about all the times I drove drunk.
No one died. Sure.
But the risk was there.
And I'm a really big person about risk.
Maybe if I was had a more deterministic mindset and I didn't think
about the probabilities, maybe that bothered me.
But I'm very aware of the probability.
I mean, I talk about all the time.
I mean, I stopped drinking for the law of large numbers caught up with me,
which is the whole idea.
The more you you commit, the more times you flip a coin, right?
Yeah, the more the closer it should get to one half, which is what we expect.
You know, I have time has tell.
But if you flip it to the times, it could be like you could
realistically get 10 heads in a row, right?
But the larger the number of trials gets, the closer you trend
to what the expected average should be, right?
So like blackjack.
Right. You could.
That's why the casino always wins.
Yeah, that's right.
The house always wins, right?
So that's true.
If if I think about this and I go, I beat the law of large numbers, right?
That that or I stop playing before the law of large numbers beats me.
It's a better way to look at it.
That makes me feel guilty because.
There are, I know there are some people I talk to some guys, they got four
and I'm like, I know how you get four, man.
Should I have been pulled over four times and got out of it?
And you got a four?
How'd that happen?
All right. But and I drink 10 times more than you do exactly.
All it is a coin land in some way.
And when you look at it that way, you can feel bad, you know?
Are you you still something and no one realizes
everyone's pointing to blame or somebody else doesn't.
And they take the cost and you're aware of it.
It's going to make you feel guilty.
So how do you forgive yourself for something like that?
I think the first thing you have to do is one.
It's going to be maybe not what you expected.
First thing you got to do is realize that it's in the past.
I think we we hold grudges and we have difficulty forgiving when we think
well, because we think that our emotions are going to somehow change.
If we get angry enough or sad enough, the causality of we were first
and we can go and make it right.
Yeah, it doesn't happen.
Right. That's why we think of we.
So so we think revenge is going to balance the scale.
But but then you can get your revenge.
You go, huh?
Well, that didn't undo it.
And I still feel like shit.
And on top of that, I feel worse.
Not that I did something to somebody and affected a bunch of other
lives who had nothing to do with it.
That's how it goes up, right?
So the first step, though, is to just understand it's in the past.
And there's nothing you can do about it.
At the same time, you get on that you had something to do with it.
And the third way is to remember.
And this is the hardest thing for most people.
This is the hard step that a lot of people, they follow me on the first
when they're following the second one, the third one is where they go.
Not sure, man, you sound like you don't crack.
The third step is you have to remember that no matter what,
you did the thing and the other person did the thing or to you,
or you did the thing because you were chasing what you believed was
the best way to get a feeling.
You thought it was the best way to feel fine.
The other person thought it was the best way to alleviate something.
And that's how you can be forgiven.
And that's how you can forgive someone else.
Because if someone, the worst thing that happened to me
has been a long time, someone did something, did something foul to me.
Let's say like my girlfriend cheated on me or something.
OK.
The first response is to be angry.
It's the whole to grudge.
I want to do something bad, but I have to forgive her.
And remember, forgiveness always have to say this.
Forgiveness doesn't substitute justice.
I still got to break up with her.
Right? Yeah.
If someone kills my family, look, man, they still got to go to jail.
Forgiveness is there to keep me from dealing with that emotional burden
and perhaps doing something destructive to myself because I think I can fix it.
Right? That's what forgiveness is with that with that caveat out the way.
I have to look at that going back to the girlfriend cheating example
or even a family killing example.
Somebody killing a family member here.
That's a that's a that's a relevant thing in the media today.
It just happened.
But they did it
because they thought that it was going to bring them closer to peace for one way or the other.
And in doing so, their actions are no different than my actions.
And so I can take that and emotionally wrap my mind around it.
That does not excuse the action.
That does not mean I'm going to be cool with them.
That doesn't mean any of that.
You forgive a person so you don't carry that emotional burden yourself.
So you don't have to suffer.
Right. That that's it.
Perfect. Right.
Because that's the idea.
No one suffers but you when you hold a grudge.
Right. What is that all saying?
It's like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die or something like that.
That is so spot on.
And if you get that, then you can easily forgive.
Like that's about that's the hard part.
That is the hardest step for many people to.
Yeah, that's strong, man.
That's really strong.
I think that's important for a lot of people to understand,
be able to understand that to experience.
You got to experience things like that where people really fuck you over.
Or you fuck somebody else over, you know what I mean?
Where two people can can come together and forgive each other.
Or, you know, like I said, and I think like, you know, what you said is
is is another part, I think of development.
It'd be nice.
I think we all would like to fashion ourselves as the hero in our story.
We go through life and the whole time.
Only we are the only people who suffer wrong.
We never do any wrong.
It's not true.
And owning that, I think, brings you a lot of peace because it forces you
to take a process that you normally extend to other people, other things,
forgiveness, and it forces you to apply it to yourself.
I talked to a friend of mine that had dealt with some trauma, a female.
This is important for the story, but that was some trauma.
And she had trouble.
She could forgive the hard attacker.
She had trouble, so much trouble for giving herself.
She thought, OK, if I hadn't said this or did this or been in that position,
this would not have happened.
If I had been stronger, if I had resisted, this would not have happened.
And in her mind, she can wrap herself around the idea that a person is evil
and victimized, and she can forgive that your own hang-up will determine
what you can or cannot forgive.
We have trouble because she can't wrap her mind around the idea that she made
a mistake. She just made an error in judgment.
She missed the bad guy.
It happens.
People can't.
People have a hard time forgiving themselves.
I think they have a way harder time forgiving themselves than they do other people.
I really believe that a person can forgive the killer.
Let's say someone killed the kid.
Yeah, right. This is an extreme.
But I think that people would have a harder time forgiving themselves
for allowing it to happen.
I don't even like using a verbal lie, but I think that's the best word I have
to describe that kind of action for letting it happen, allowing it to happen.
Then they would, for somebody taking advantage and being an exact
in such a cool, cool action on them.
Yeah, I mean, I can't imagine something that extreme, someone killing someone
really close to you and feeling that hatred towards that person nonstop every day.
I mean, it's just it's just exhausting.
It demolishes you.
It would. Yeah.
But it's also extremely hard to get over that wall to be able just to let go.
Yeah. And I never say it should be easy.
But but but sometimes people don't think about it that way.
They think they just do whatever is whatever is instant gratification.
Not only not only that, but they can't see a reason.
You know, people you have to take your inner peace and your wellness.
So yeah, for sure.
And that's just what what it comes down to is if you if you follow it logically,
you end up in the same place as you would if you follow it emotionally
or rationally, I guess if you follow rationally, you end up in the same place.
You will if you follow it emotionally, which is.
The other person does not experience what you continue to be yourself up for.
So you have to do something about that.
And the premise that I follow is what you do about that is forgiveness
and forgiveness is not a substitute for justice.
Justice still has to be done.
We believe in that.
I'm the God is going to be swinging the axe and taking your head off,
telling you, look, man, it's OK.
I really don't feel anything in my.
Why you come ahead off? No, no, no, that's not for you.
Right. I don't feel it.
I just want to know I forgive you.
You're forgiven. Yeah.
But you're still dead.
You still got to go, man, like that kind of thing.
And people get that.
And that's hard for people to reconcile, too, is that you can you can exact
the punishment you can protect yourself.
But but you can still forgive.
I like that.
I really like that.
And I think I think it's a very, very strong and deliberate way to live.
And maybe that's why people resist it because it's very deliberate.
Yeah, for sure.
Well, cool, man.
I read on your Twitter that you have.
You have some links to your to some books that you've written on your Twitter
or are they on your website?
Yeah, website and Twitter. OK.
Yeah. And you got like you got like 100,000 something followers on Twitter,
dude, you're blowing up, man.
Yeah, people people keep finding me.
I wonder if they're following on because of like because they see some
and the other people. Yeah, yeah.
Right. Oh, is that what happens when you get so many of the snowballs like that?
People just like it's not so much that it snowballs.
I think it models.
I think it grows exponentially.
I would say models after E.
But like that's just the math not there to me.
Um, yeah. But in other words, you know,
each one follower can get two people to follow and each
can get two circles, one, two, four.
I think you got some big followers, though.
Yeah, that that, too.
I know she have Rick Rubin following you.
Yeah, you know, someone messaged me.
I was like, yo, did you know Rick Rubin follows you?
And I said, no, let me look up who that because I come in.
I'm not even know who he was.
Oh, man.
But once I found out, I took a screenshot of it
and put it on my my Facebook.
That's why I'm like, that's crazy.
That's really cool.
All the members of the Peterson follow family.
Yeah. Donald Trump, your Scott Adams.
Donald Trump, Jr.
Follows you. Yeah. Holy shit. Wow.
It says, you know, it's a I have.
Now, I wish I could tell people I know exactly why these people like me.
I got no idea.
Because I'm not transmitting what I think is a is a better than winning
personality via via these tweets.
But what I am putting out is, you know, my experience and
my I think I'm all the enter I certainly definitely not not false.
So these people when they follow me, I just go, cool, man.
Like, like a lot of times I wish there was a way to see how many like people
to blue check mark follow me because they're not there because here's what Twitter does.
Whenever, whenever someone with a blue check mark or a high follower account
follows you or interacts with you for your follow, interacts with you,
whether they like your tweet or retweet it, you get forced notified.
Yeah. All right.
And so I'll get a notification.
I'm like, who is this person?
And then I look at him. Wow, that's cool, man.
It's crazy. All these people follow me.
Yeah. What's his name?
David, I hear five follows me.
And if you don't know that is right, look, man, you're not supposed to know
all that you are. Right.
He's the guy who wrote direct to training day.
And really? Yeah, the awesome guy.
And he actually he bought my point.
He messed with me a few times.
He won one when he bought my book about sobriety because he talked about
because he had the same issues.
OK. I bought it in an inbresony.
And he also goes, oh, man, no wonder about like you have the same birthday.
I was like, oh, no shit.
So he wished me a happy birthday on my birthday.
I was like, oh, man, cool. Thanks. That's crazy.
So, yeah, you know, we live in that we live in this world where
if you have, I think, a valuable thing to say and a message people can relate to.
Yeah. And, you know, and now I think a lot of it, too, is is
I think I'm a great communicator, right?
You know, you know, I try and you know, better than average.
I was moderate. No, I think I'm a great communicator and a great
or writer. And I think that really helps what a lot of people connect
and follow me and retweet my stuff and find me.
And then I'm able to, like, take that and put in other platforms.
You know, on my list of my website and all that.
But the whole idea, the whole point of me bringing that up
is I think that if you have something to say and you work on how you say it,
we live in a great world where you can share that and connect other like-minded people.
I'm only in Florida because of the Twitter connections I made, right?
Right. So and right.
So those are the two parts.
And the other third part is what I was saying at the beginning.
If you live life, if you have something valuable to say
and give an experience and it ain't got to be some crazy, you know, people.
Here's a blow your mind, right?
We talked about the boxing and to many people, that would be that thing.
Yeah, that's your famous. Right. Right. Right.
But let me tell you something.
When I lost my fight and effectively disappeared from that level of notoriety,
I only had 7000 followers.
Well, the peak of your boxing. Wow.
This has all been done since then via my writing,
via what I say, am I speaking and everything I do?
And so that that lets me know, right?
You know, talking about some real time feedback.
What should you do with your life?
That lets me know that I have something unique to offer.
People see something unique and it makes and and I would be.
I would be foolish to not take advantage of it.
This is the decision I made my final year of school.
And I found I'm about 30 or 33 years on.
I said, you know, I don't have the personality to work in the lab.
Or rather, it was more, I don't have the personality to be behind the scenes.
Very much, you know, MBTI, whether you think it's it's trash or not.
My MBTI is the NTJ, and I fit that to a T, both positive and negative.
You're what?
ENTJ, extroverted, intuitive, man, I can't even remember.
Oh, OK.
But yeah, some people know what it is and people won't.
OK, but very much extroverted, very much interested in interacting with people.
And so all of the jobs I saw that my career path was taking me now,
they were not that.
And so I was like, all right, not interested.
And then that explains why I love the teaching.
I get to talk and communicate with people.
I mean, I really love tutoring.
I continued it longer than I had to.
Like I started as a thing I needed to do for money.
And it ended with me going, well, I really like this.
But at this point, it costs more of my money and time to go than than it's worth.
Like it was not very much was a sad thing that I was having fun with doing.
And and I find these.
This this this communication, I get so much out of it.
There's something about sitting here and connecting with people and connecting.
And then however my brain works, I think I'm very good at explaining things.
And all these things really come together.
And I say, half joking, 40 percent joking, half 40 percent.
The Twitter was really made for people like me that I can sit and write.
And then on top of that, I can start a blog and I know it's funny.
I'll come back over my writing and I'll see how I've gotten better and better
and better progressively, better able to express the same idea with fewer words.
My word economies improve, my word choices improve.
And I continue to sharpen it up because that's what I love to do.
People are like, man, why don't you start a YouTube channel?
I'm like, yeah, but then I got to do a YouTube channel like not interested.
I want to write. I want to write.
Yeah, communicate with that that that method, you know, that's cool.
Have a good time.
Yeah, there's a lot of people are different in the way they like to communicate
on social media, like like Instagram and Twitter are so different.
Yeah, like there's some people who just like love posts and pictures
and being vague about things.
And there's a lot of just all day fucking tweet, tweet, tweet, tweet,
talking about things like what they feel, what they like a cool quote they saw.
Right.
I think it's a it's interesting to be able to do both.
I mean, you got to be able to because like you're if you're a visual
thinker or a visual communicator versus and it's a great challenge
because now the next thing I was like, OK, I'm doing well on Twitter.
Yeah, let me try Instagram pretty much.
I'm trying to avoid a thing that is going to require a huge investment
of my time like putting together a channel.
So let me do Instagram and I'm having a lot of fun with that.
I passed take a so now I can send people back to my website.
Oh, nice.
Via my stories.
But I have a lot of fun with that.
But what it's taught me is that words do one thing.
Pictures do another thing.
And if you want to.
If you can, the more things you can do, the more options you have.
And if you are and I can really figure out, I can learn the whole
because look, the whole hashtag system figured it out.
Well, I didn't figure it out.
But like realize that it's nothing more than an SEO.
Yeah, the SEO I did just applaud to a thing.
You know, the more followers you have, the more hashtags you can rank or rather
hashtags have a certain number of posts attached to them.
And the more followers you have, the more likely you are to rank
if you put something in that hashtag.
And each post has a finite amount of like outlink energy based on outlink energy.
That's I guess outlink points.
You know, like you can only put so many links on a website before each
individual link loses its ability to be a follow link and get you SEO point.
Same idea with Adji.
Right.
So really understanding this, right?
It becomes more deliberate.
I'm not just hashtagging for, oh, I think this is cool.
Hashtag, you know, goals.
Hashtag this.
Some people have a hundred thousand hashtags on their posts.
Right.
So it goes, oh, no, let's let's pick something a little smaller.
I can get on front page of that based on the things that people are following.
And it turns into a really fun game.
These these games of connection are really interesting to me.
Do you, uh, for Instagram, do you screenshot your tweets and post on Instagram?
I used to.
That's a hack, dude.
That works good for me, at least.
Really?
Yeah, maybe maybe I should get back to it.
I don't know.
You got to do that in the hash, the screenshots from Twitter to Instagram.
That's you know what I've been doing.
I've been sending them to my stories and then whatever.
Oh, yeah, probably get some more out of it.
Oh, yeah.
Because on the one end, you talk to these pros who run these, these agencies.
Well, I'm, I'm learning when someone says they run the agency.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look, well, here's the biggest song for me.
If you tell me you run an agency and your Twitter account is smaller than mine,
then I can't like, like, I can't listen to you.
Like, like, I do a lot of stuff helping people go to Twitter.
And I can do it because there's just not going to be many people
who have more followers than me.
Right. Even if I was full of shit, which I'm not, but even if I was,
then they're going to look at my follow account and the ratios.
Okay, okay, yeah, we got it.
We have to at least listen to this guy, right?
Yeah, they can't just write me off.
But I get guys right.
They're going, you know, here's the thing, you know, and we do this and we do that.
And we have accounts and I look and I go, yeah, man, but you got like
nine hundred followers, bro.
Like, well, how are you going to help me get to where I'm trying to go?
Now I'm working with one group now and the people who reached out to me.
Okay, I see you've done the thing that you say that you can do for me.
I see that you walk the you walk the walk.
Yeah. And so I'm, I'm, I'm in, you know, we'll see how it goes.
Hell yeah, man.
Well, cool. I think we're about to hit your time limit here.
We're about an hour and a half in.
Awesome, man. This is fun.
Yeah. Where can people find your stuff?
Or can they watch your videos, read your, read your books?
Oh, my videos, that's all of you, but read my books, you know,
just put my name, Ed Latimore, and on Amazon, you'll see him.
It was really smart about it.
Yes. Or rather, I'm really fortunate that I have the name
Ed Latimore and no one beat me to it.
I feel bad for the guy who comes up next, who wants to use
Ed Latimore because my website is edlatimore.com.
Nice. My Instagram is Ed Latimore.
My Twitter is Ed Latimore.
No problem. Facebook page is Ed Latimore.
And very simple too, right?
The only trouble is that, like, the way
Latimore is pronounced, whereas I would spell, some people put two T's in there.
Nope. I'm one T, Ed Latimore and Ed Latimore.com.
Ed Latimore.com, Ed Latimore, Instagram, Ed Latimore on Twitter.
Hell yeah, man. Cool, man.
Well, thank you so much for coming out here and sharing your knowledge
and your wisdom and your stories.
It's been fun.
I really appreciate this, man.
Thank you guys. It was a pleasure.
Yes, sir.
