It's an honor to have you back.
Your tridents have been on display on this podcast for almost 200 episodes since you
were here the first time.
And I'm a huge fan of you and your work and your artwork.
So thanks for being back.
Okay.
Oh, thank you.
On the first podcast that we did, we talked a lot about like the wildlife stuff you did,
the jackass, the wild boys, all that stuff, kind of like your rise to fame, so to speak.
But we didn't really cover your childhood and like your early life in Cuba and your
family and all that stuff.
So I want to talk about that a little bit today.
Well, my memory goes back to the age of four.
I remember people telling me, you're four years old.
As far as wildlife in Cuba, I would go in the backyard, look in a crab hole, I would
put my arm in there and grab a huge land crab by the elbow.
And I would try to pull them out and the crab would actually drag me.
And then my dad would come find me, grab my back feet and pull me out of the, pull me
back and we pull the crab right out of the hole.
So I used to hand catch crabs at the age of four like that.
So I was already getting into picking up lizards into wildlife.
I used to watch movies like Seahunt in Cuba when I was a kid, that stuff.
My dad was cool, we were living in Cuba.
The whole communism thing came in there, casual took over.
How long, so when you were a kid growing up with your parents, how long did you guys
live under Batista before that whole Cuban revolution?
What year were you born?
I was born in 1954.
54, okay.
So the Cuban revolution came in 1959.
So I was just a kid.
I mean, when I was a kid, I didn't think about Batista or any of that, you know, that's
just, children don't think about any of that, they just, life was normal for us, you know.
I noticed changes once a casual took over, like the properties, the ranch we used to
go play in, like Guida National Forest, all of a sudden it became, we couldn't go there
no more, the government confiscated it and all the properties were taken and a lot of
bad things were happening.
Had no clue what was going on, but the main time, my dad joined up with the CIA to fight
against Castro and later on he got infiltrated into Cuba.
So what happened to him when he got recruited by the CIA, like what was specifically going
on with your dad?
What was he doing?
Well, our whole life was being uprooted.
I mean, I was a kid, so I'm not paying attention, but the adults saw that we were losing our
freedom in Cuba, you know, money was being confiscated, property, just huge changes and
very, you know, like no respect for the law, he was just doing whatever they wanted to
do and, you know, a hard line communist dictatorship was taking effect.
What did your parents do for work?
My dad was a salesman, my mother came, he was a servant for Bacardi.
Oh, no way.
Yeah.
My mother came from a very wealthy family in Cuba.
Her great-grandfather was like foreign minister, minister exterior for Cuba.
He was in all these minister of education, he was all those in Cuba one time or another.
He's a big time politician.
He owned 54,000 acres in Pinal del Río.
It was my favorite place when I was a little kid to go play in Cuba.
They had horses there, they had mountains, forests, deer everywhere.
No property.
He also had a beach house.
He had a big house in Havana, so he's very well-known politician.
To this day, if you go to the ranch, the entrance says Hacienda Cortina.
So since he was such a unknown figure in Cuba, even though the Castro regime still kept his
name on the ranch.
Really?
And that was, so that was your grandfather?
Great-grandfather.
Your great-grandfather.
My mother is grandfather.
Oh, wow.
So what part of Cuba were you guys living in again?
In Havana.
Okay.
But the ranch in Pinal del Río, which is the western end of Cuba, the Oregon mountains,
the whole entire range, was there.
And to this day, tourists go to Cuba, that's where they go.
Tourists go visit a place that's one of the national wonders of Cuba.
There's a beautiful property.
They got mountains and river to go through caves.
They got lights in there, so it's like a spectacular place to go see.
So when you were growing up with your dad, like what kind of, what kind of, you were
always just like roaming around, looking for wildlife, swimming in the ocean, fishing,
we're doing that kind of stuff.
And Cuba, I went on a couple fishing trips with my dad.
My dad liked nature, but he had a family to worry about things.
My dad was also an Olympic athlete.
He had represented Cuba and rowing.
Rowing is very popular in Cuba.
So his team won like a bronze medal in London, I believe it was 1948 Olympics.
Oh, wow.
They, him and his brother, his brother-in-law, and several of those guys, they all came and
they, and they won, you know, and they didn't win a gold medal, but they got a bronze medal.
But they were like champions in Cuba.
Very famous.
That's cool.
A lot of newspaper articles about them.
So he's very much into being an athlete.
He also played football for University of Vanna, American football.
Oh, okay.
They used to play the American universities.
They always got slaughtered by the American teams.
That's what my mother told me.
The Cuban team didn't stand a chance in football against like Georgia Tech and universities
like that.
They played against.
Right.
They would get annihilated.
Supposedly, everybody would get drunk before the game.
They knew to take all the, all the pain.
Those are the stories I heard anyways.
Oh, that's hilarious.
So he was working for, he was a big salesman for Bacardi.
So when Castro took over, what happened with Bacardi?
Well they left.
They left Cuba.
Yeah.
They, they, they moved over here.
They opened up Bacardi in Puerto Rico.
I think it was their base, but they had people in Miami and everything.
So, but they were friends of the family.
One time they sent me to a boarding school and it was a Bacardi family that paid for
it.
No shit.
Where was that at?
Tampa, Tampa, Florida.
Oh, here.
It was the type of school that you live in and everything.
They thought it was good for me to stay in a school like that.
You know, after my mother had a real hard time because when my father was captured, he
was executed.
Well, we're jumping, we're jumping a little far ahead.
Yeah, I'm jumping a little ahead.
So, so your, your father went from working for Bacardi, obviously the revolution, the
Castro's rebels like scoured the land in Cuba and basically took over all the businesses.
Well, communism, under communism, you're not allowed to own private property.
You're not allowed to have wealth.
You're not allowed to have money.
You're not allowed to do, you know, you all have to be equally poor.
That is their, their method.
That's what people in this country are not being educated, what communism really is.
Most of these young kids have no idea what communism is.
They read a few books and they think they have an attitude that ship on the shoulder,
whatever it is.
And they think they've been taught that communism is good.
No, communism is not good for anybody.
It's evil.
And, and usually they'll take people who are unqualified to do a job and take the qualified
one and haven't do something that he's not meant to do.
They rearrange everything.
And you Cubans, I mean, the people, former Cubans like you or Cuban born people like
yourself who were part of that revolution are the people that are the most outspoken
about that.
Well, if you're a Cuban and you believe in communism, you know, you can stay in Cuba.
Right.
I mean, that's, it's perfectly normal.
That's what I would say.
That's an interesting thing too.
When Castro took over Cuba, he never mentioned communism once.
No.
I mean, Guevara, who was with him, who was a Marxist.
Is that what it was?
Yeah.
Che Guevara was a Marxist and his brother Raul was a Marxist.
Castro supposedly an opportunist.
I mean, he's a crooked guy, opportunistic guy.
And so he, he tied up with the Soviet Union and to get protection from the United States.
Right.
That was much later.
That came much later.
So, so I'm curious about your father though.
So like, so like, and just let's say in this beginning part of the revolution, like right,
after it happened in 59, what was like your, you guys all stayed in Cuba, obviously.
You survived the revolution.
I was in Cuba.
Well, we thought the revolution, I was a kid and all the propaganda was out there.
I thought Fidel was a really cool guy.
Right.
Asked a lot of Americans.
Oh yeah.
No, the people going down the street.
Hey, Fidel's coming down from the mountains.
He's great.
What do you mean?
Who are they?
And all the ladies and the nannies, everybody's excited about Fidel.
I had no idea.
I thought he was a great guy to my mother when I kept saying, when's dad coming home?
My mother turned around and told me he's not coming home.
That was me and my three sisters.
She told us that and she goes, Fidel is not a good guy.
You know, he said, he just, he killed your father.
And I was like, so I went from thinking it was a good guy to all of a sudden shock.
And your mom just, you asked your mom randomly one day when's dad coming home and she, that's
how she dropped it on you.
Yeah.
Well, time was coming by.
She had to tell us sooner or later because we have no notion of time.
My mother was arrested also.
She was locked up.
They caught her.
When they arrested my dad, they arrested her.
There were several women arrested, but the Cuban government did not kill the women.
And later on, I think the US negotiated their release kind of like with the Bay of Pigs
people.
Right.
They did a deal like that.
But the CIA guys, like my dad and the other men that were captured that day, including
the head CIA guy in Cuba, Sorin Marin, they were all tried in a kangaroo court.
You know, the people are cracking jokes and throwing little paper balls around and laughing
and everything.
It's like a big party.
And then they're all executed the next day.
So your dad was recruited by CIA right after the revolution.
And was he, he was obviously recruited in Cuba.
And what specifically, do you know what he was doing for them?
Or like, was he infiltration team?
He was a team of guys that are like Phyllis Rodriguez.
They were going to be an escum, Brian.
Phyllis told me the story years later, but he went, actually he went to, they were training
in Nicaragua at the time.
That's the CIA took him to.
Okay.
Nicaragua.
That's what I, I mean, of course I'm a kid.
I'm not aware of any of that.
This is, I found out this later on his years went by, my mother told me some more stories
before she died.
So your dad went with Phyllis to Nicaragua to train?
They were down there, all the CIA guys, they were all trained, they were all part of the
same team.
Okay.
Then later on he meets Sorin Marin and Sorin Marin invited him to go into Havana.
And Havana was a hotbed, you know, and that's where the Castro soldiers were thick everywhere.
And they were, they were searching houses one after another and somebody ran out of
one house and ran into house where they were, where they were all hiding.
And then all of a sudden they walked in to recognize Sorin Marin and they go, we got
the big fish and all of a sudden everybody got surrounded to play, everybody got arrested.
So they caught him accidentally, but either way, I mean, it was a hotbed.
This is days before the Bay of Pigs, a couple of days.
Oh really?
So it's all going down at the same time.
So a couple of days later, I believe after Bay of Pigs invasion, they were all executed.
The six guys in firing squad, a lot of, yeah, a lot of people were killed in Cuba in the
firing squad in those days.
It was nonstop.
Years later Castro even put his own top guys in firing squad.
He executed his number one general, which he executed his two top guys.
The La Guardia brothers, both of them.
So he killed Abranches.
Either they killed them or they put them in a prison where they weren't going to come
out alive.
You know, so he got, he cleaned house.
All the people were top dogs in there.
Most communist dictators do that.
They killed the top brass.
So how old were you when you guys found out that Castro executed your father?
He was five years old.
You were five years old.
God.
But after that, we were able to go to Miami.
So right after that, you went to Miami?
Sometime after my mother got released, we were able to get out because that was a military
age.
Military age guys were not allowed to leave.
They had to join the Cuban military.
So we got out, my mother came back to bury my father and she almost never got out.
She had to go to her grandfather's political rival who was a communist and ask him to help
her get out of Cuba and he helped her get out of Cuba.
Him and the grandfather went way back.
Political rivals, but they knew each other.
Right.
They still went to dinners and stuff and had cocktail parties.
Yeah, yeah.
They were rivals, but they had cocktail parties together, whatever.
So when you got out, where did your sisters come to US with you?
All of us came here.
We were kids.
My mother was like, no money or anything.
They took everything.
So we were political refugees.
Sorry to interrupt.
Did your dad know Rick Prado?
No, because Rick's way younger.
Yeah, Rick would have been my age.
Yeah, exactly.
He would have been five or six years old at the time.
He knew Felix.
Your dad was friends with Felix because they trained in Nicaragua.
Right.
Right.
Felix liked my dad a lot.
He came by to visit my mom sometime before she died.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He came by the house and all that.
Did you ever talk to Felix?
Yes.
When did you first meet Felix?
I met him a few times that I was at a Miami eating and restaurant and he approached me
and he goes, I'm Felix and he introduced himself to me.
And we talked.
I was doing a TV show not too long ago when I ran into him on a TV show.
I was talking about sharks and he was talking about Cuba and politics, you know, both on
a topic on a, we were on Spanish TV, we were both guests that day.
And then I saw him and I go, man, it's Felix.
And I started talking to him.
He's getting older as I could tell, you know, he's got a lot of years on him now.
Did he have any cool, what did he tell you a lot of things about your father that you
didn't know?
Not as much to me.
He said to a friend of mine, they used to go to my friend's house and he told him that
he really admired my father.
That's what he told one of the people he admired the most.
So I mean, I never met anybody saying anything bad about my father, you know, good or bad.
I never heard anybody, everybody, uh, he was a very likable, very popular guy.
Right.
Plus I'm being an athlete, you know, famous athlete in Cuba at the time.
But new generation doesn't know anything about that.
This is all in the past.
There's a new people coming up, you know, the history has been erased in many cases.
I got into, I was always interested in the wildlife.
Once I got into Florida, the first thing I told me, there have been some snakes in Florida,
so be careful.
When you're how old?
I was six years old in Miami and my friends had a ranch.
And later on when I was a young teenager, they would take me to the ranch with them.
Their families are friends from, families from Cuba.
And in that ranch, I came in contact with alligators, venomous snakes, things like that.
But by the time I was in high school, I was already bit by rattlesnake.
I was already hand catching large alligators.
And I was picking up, of course, venomous snakes left and right.
I was diving, spearfishing and all that.
Did you go to school when you were in Miami?
I went to school in Miami Elementary School.
And then for high school, I went to private school for junior high.
And then for high school, I went to Gainesville High, Gainesville, Florida.
And that exposed me to a lot of the woods, a lot of venomous snakes.
That's where I got bit by a venomous snake over there and alligators.
I would go after school, walk around the edge of lakes, see alligators sneak up and
dive on them and hand catch them.
So I was already hand catching large alligators.
I was weightlifting.
I was their state champion weightlifter in high school.
Wow.
Yeah, you were jacked back in the day, man.
Yeah, I was.
We could find some pictures of him, like old school Manny Quig photos.
You were ripped.
Walking around wearing a Speedo.
Yeah, yeah.
I did all that.
The alligator stuff, once I learned techniques, it was more about knowing and
understanding the alligator than strength, how to interact with an alligator.
Right.
And a lot of how to hold your breath a long time, you know,
different techniques you pick up over the years for diving, spearfishing.
I spent a lot of time.
Look at that one on the left.
Dude, you're like, you're like Zeus.
How old were you there?
In my 40s, right about 44, 45.
I got a, yeah, that was probably some of my best years.
Really?
In my 40s.
That's when I started doing more of the TV stuff.
Yeah.
I learned more about the sharks and alligators.
I started interacting.
Before that, I did a lot of, notice I got a spear in my hand.
I did a lot of commercial spearfishing.
So let's go back real quick to when you were in high school.
You went to high school in Gainesville, you said?
Yes.
When you were just like, there was a lot of wildlife around there.
A lot of woods and a lot of lakes and a lot of obviously the golf is there.
Yes.
What were you doing when you were in high school?
Like you obviously going to school, but so just you spent all your spare time just hunting
and fishing and catching alligators?
That kind of stuff.
I would do things like, okay, I tell my friends, I'm going to skip school,
drop me off in the woods over here and pick me up in three days.
Now I'd be out in the woods by myself, you know, eating whatever I caught,
surviving other drinking water right out of the swamp.
I was doing, this is 17 years old, I was doing stupid stuff like that.
Did you know, you didn't know anybody else doing the same shit you were doing.
You just wanted to go do it by yourself.
I did it by myself.
Then later on, I talked to friends of mine to come out with me.
So I would go with some friends sometimes and do it.
By that time, I wasn't by myself and we'd go out and camp out and all that.
Later on, my friends bring in, you know, a tent, sleeping bags,
things that didn't bring the first time.
What was it that made you want to go do that?
Spend three days in the wilderness, just like hunting and catching and eating
whatever you caught and being alone.
And like, was there, there was no fear of anything?
What, what were you like?
I was attracted to that.
Look, I didn't like fast cars.
I didn't like baseball.
I didn't care for football.
I didn't care for any of that.
I care for, I wanted to live off the land.
I wanted to live like Tarzan, like the Native Americans, you know,
off the land hunting and fishing.
And I used to watch Sea Hunt going on the water.
So I got into spearfishing a lot where I made a living spearfishing for many years.
That put me in contact with sharks.
And one of my first shark encounters was in the Bahamas.
I had a shark bite a fin off my foot when I was 18 years old,
before I even saw the shark.
The only thing I've ever seen in my life at that time was an earth shark.
How'd you get to the Bahamas when you were 18?
There was this boat captain out of Miami.
He was a lobster fish in the Bahamas.
Back then it was legal, as long as you're 12 miles offshore.
So my uncle said, hey, you want to go to the Bahamas and get your job on this boat?
And I was like, sure, I want to go out there.
So I wanted to dive.
So I'd be picking up traps all day long, but I was looking at the water.
I just couldn't wait to get in there.
But, you know, we were working like crazy.
The work was brutal.
Rops are trapping as brutal.
And these are Cuban guys who are like, move it.
You're slow.
Work hard.
You know, they were yelling at you all day long like that.
Were you allowed to spear them or gig them?
No.
You were in the Bahamas.
I mean, you know, they used to hook them and put them in.
But we weren't divers.
The guys I went with were trappers.
They were not divers.
OK.
So they had to put crab traps down there.
And they put lobster traps and they pull them in with a winch all day long.
And you stack them and clean them and bait them and put them back again.
You know, I was exhausted every day.
But the guy goes, OK, I want to eat grouper tonight.
And they go, man, you go in the water and spear grouper.
So we're going to eat it tonight.
So I jumped in, shot a grouper, and a shark came from behind me and bit.
Next thing you know, I thought it was one of the guys who was playing a joke on me.
Wait a minute.
Because the fin came flying right off my foot.
I turned around.
I saw a blur of a shark leaving at a million miles an hour.
The fin floated.
I let go of the grouper.
I just speared.
Let go of that.
The grouper took off the spear and it all went into the bottom, went into a cave.
They threw a rope over the front of the boat.
One of the guys saw him hit me.
So I climbed up the rope, right up the highest side of the boat, and got in there.
And they put a small boat in the water.
They picked up the fin.
It was a floating fin.
And they could see the jacket where all the he had missed my toes by that much.
You could see the entire cut with the shark a bit on my fin.
What kind of shark was it, you know?
I'm not sure.
To this day, I think it might have been a lemon.
I can remember seeing a yellowish color.
So it could have been a lemon shark.
It was so fast.
I didn't know my shark very well at that time.
I didn't have any experience with him.
Wow.
Eighteen years old was your first shark.
And then the captain asked me, can you go back and get the spear gun?
And back then I was like, you know, I was kind of scared.
And I, but as, you know, with those guys, you can't show, you know, you got to be macho all the way.
So I jumped in, went down, swam down, looked in every which way, pulled a group rod, went to the surface.
And he goes, can you get another one?
I couldn't shoot another fish.
Every time I was going to aim at a fish, I looked this way, I looked that way.
I couldn't.
Now, years later, little that I know, I'd be hand feeding the sharks and riding on my.
Right.
I got bit.
Gosh.
That was my fin.
Later on in my life, I got bit by four different types of shark.
I got bit by mako with my finger while hand feeding.
I got bit by Caribbean resharking my leg.
And I got bit by a nurse shark in this leg.
And I got bit by lemon in my fingers.
Right.
So I took some shark bites.
So when you're 18, you're working for the commercial fishing company, you're catching
lobsters.
What, how long did you work for this company, commercial fishing in the Bahamas?
That was just in the summer.
Just during the summers?
Well, a summer month.
I was out 36 days one time and I went one more time out and I was out like 20 something
days and I never went out again.
Hmm.
It wasn't for you.
No.
Then later on, I did, I got my own lobster license and I would swim under the bridges
and the keys, catch lobsters and go sell them.
All you needed was a $50 license.
I could catch as many lobsters as I wanted and sell them.
But the lobsters were, you know, hard to get and hard to find.
I didn't have a boat.
I was swimming around with a dive flag and, you know, and there was a lot of current down
there.
So I would get a slight tide.
You'd make the best of it.
But half the time, we'd be kicking against the current and swimming down and grabbing
lobsters and put them in a bag.
So it was brutal, brutal work.
At the end of the day, we'd just pull into the fish house, easy to pay you in cash right
there.
Really?
Put your lobsters, it's a great life.
Lobsters on a scale and they pay you in cash.
And you were how old doing this?
Dad, I was in early 20s.
Early 20s.
By that time doing that.
And that's just how you made all your money was just doing that.
I did that for a while and later on, I got into with some more people, you know, when
I got into heavy duty and the commercial spearfishing.
I had one guy, we used to go down there catching up fish every day, pay for dinner at the hotel
room and go do it the next day all over again.
But later on, I met some people in the keys who were doing it more professional.
We'd go out on trips, make more money, catch a large amount of lobsters with boats.
People knew where we were going and how to be able to harvest more fish.
Like long lines?
No, no spearfishing.
All spearfishing.
We would do the Goliaths.
Like, I mean, one trip we came back, I think we made like $1,400 worth of Goliath group
or each.
You know, after we paid for the gas, we paid for the food, paid for everything.
And a third part for the boat, we divided up, you know, that's a good paycheck.
Other days, I'd make $400, $500.
This is a long time ago.
So it was more money back then.
We would spear grouper, snapper, hogfish, also did tropicals for a while.
And in lobster season, I would do lobsters.
But whatever we found that was worth money, we'd shoot, including the sharks.
Really?
I used to shoot the sharks before I started making the movies.
What kind of sharks did you shoot the most?
Well, we shot them.
There was lemon, bull, and great hammerhead.
God.
Occasionally, we would shoot a, you know, Caribbean re-shark and blacktip.
And were you, you weren't hunting the sharks.
They would just show up looking for your fish and then you would shoot them?
They were, but we were all, they got it from me.
First thing we do, we shoot a barracudon tied to a stringer.
Like our guy would drop you off in the middle of the ocean and pick you up later, or you'd
have to swim a couple of miles to where the boat was anchored and work your way that way.
So we'd be dragging fish with us.
And when a shark would show up, we'd pop it.
And we sell the shark.
We used to sell the fins, sell the meat, cut the jaws out, take pictures of the shark,
hang up the jaws on the wall.
We did all that.
Then later on, we always wanted to start making money from like being at water interacting
with sharks.
That was more, there's more profit in that than killing the shark.
So the shark was more valuable to us alive.
So at that time I was like, hey, you know, they're killing too many sharks.
That time we would have a hard time finding them.
So it wasn't, you could spear fish all day long without ever seeing a shark.
Sharks were being, then everybody got into commercial long-lining for sharks and they
got depleted.
It was really hard to find sharks, they were getting wiped out.
What year roughly did commercial long-lining for sharks start to kick up?
I would be probably 30 years ago, I would say, I'm trying to keep, okay, I was in-
It's like the early 90s?
My 40s, I would be in my 40s.
Yeah, I would say early 90s and all that, it started picking up.
Once they started protecting certain types of shark, like they put a ban on catching
a Sambar shark.
Once a Sambar shark was protected, the commercial guys, there was no reason for it to go long-lining
for sharks anymore, you couldn't make any money.
What is that shark?
What kind of shark?
Is that a Mako?
That's a Mako.
Yeah, that's not my shark.
That's Mark the shark's Mako.
He just, I came over with a scientist, Dr. Castro, to look at the shark and so he got
a picture with me.
Where did you guys get, where did he catch that?
Miami.
Oh, Miami, okay.
You're not allowed to get him anymore, but he's got permits, he's still out there catching
sharks.
Oh yeah, yeah, he should bring him on the show if he won.
Yeah, he's bombastic and he'll talk about...
Oh, is he?
That's a big-ass Mako.
Yeah, yeah, I think it was 10 feet, I remember.
I've encountered Makos that big in Louisiana.
As a matter of fact, for Shark Week, I was riding a big Mako, anything bigger than that
one.
Riding it?
Yeah, a little hand-feeding it, riding everything.
I did a lot of stuff with Makos.
I really liked it.
Makos is a good shark to work with, very dangerous, but the open ocean sharks will come at you
quicker because there's less food out there.
Right, it's like a desert.
Yeah, so they're more aggressive, which is perfect.
That's a Mako shark.
A little baby Mako.
That was a Mako, I carved that out of bronze.
Oh, you carved it?
Yeah, yeah, it's bronze.
Whoa, you can't click on it, that's okay.
Look at that, Manny.
That's a bronze, I'm an artist, so I sculpted that.
That's all bronze right there.
That's incredible.
That weighs about 85 pounds.
It's hollow, but it's still 85 pounds, but it looks like a real Mako.
It looks exactly like a real Mako.
It looks like one of those taxidermy ones.
Yeah, yeah.
No, but by hand, I did a hammerhead, and I did alligator, and I did a Goliath grouper.
So when you started doing this commercial spearfishing in your early 20s, what did
what was it that made you, did you just have this inner desire to push the limits farther
than anybody else?
Did you feel like that was what you were destined to do?
You wanted to outdo everybody else, dive deeper than everybody else, catch these fish more
primitively than anybody else was.
What was it in you that made you?
At first, I wanted to make a living instead of jobs that I didn't like.
I wanted a spearfish for a living, because I don't want to have a job.
I like the idea of going out there to challenge of catching fish.
Then later on, I was always attracted to catching fish instead of with a spear with my hands.
I had fantasies of catching sharks with my hands, so later on, that'll happen just like
catching alligators by hand.
In high school, I was catching alligators by hand.
But I'm saying like, what was it in you that made you have this desire to do this?
What made you want to push all these limits and do all these things that nobody else has ever done?
I wanted to do what my fantasies were when I was a child.
I want to do what Tarzan did in movies.
It wasn't real.
I want to do it for real.
And I said, I may not be the deepest diver in the world or the best spearfishing in the world,
but when I came to hand fishing and all the stuff, yeah, I took off with that.
Most people wouldn't think of that.
They wouldn't, it didn't cross your mind to try to do, to catch a giant Goliath or to catch a shark with their hands and things like that.
That all started kicking into me.
The more I learned, I started studying them and looking at them and I would pick up.
I can get close to them.
I can do this.
I start seeing ideas like that, like catching a barracuda with a knife.
I saw how close a barracudas came to me and the son told me, pull out your knife and get one.
And I did, but I literally hit him with my hands first.
So I said, if I can touch him, as they were attacking the fish I had on my hand, if I can touch him, I can get one with a knife.
And I stuck and grabbed him by the neck real quick.
That's the only coot I ever caught with a knife.
If I were to slip, the coot would probably bit me right here.
I had him right here like this.
Yeah, barracudas are terrifying fish.
Even when I'm diving and spearfishing, I'm almost more afraid of barracudas than I've seen a shark.
Do you feel the same way?
No, I'm not.
I mean, you're not afraid of anything.
I'm not afraid of, I shot a lot of barracudas to feed the sharks and for me to eat.
But I've shot so many cooters, I can never count them.
Big ones, small ones, and...
Type in Manny Pwig after a barracuda and find some of the photos.
I know a lot of people have been hurt by barracudas real bad.
Yeah, and they get humongous.
They get bigger than some sharks, too.
No, the biggest coot I've ever read about was long six feet, nine inches.
So walk me through how you caught that barracuda.
Like what was going on?
Well, there was a spearfishing competition on Omer.
They were holding it.
They invited me there.
They sponsored me, so I went up there and it was in North Carolina.
They went out of banks, so a bunch of groups were there.
So I wasn't participating.
I was just hanging out so I could go with any crew I wanted that day.
And I went with Eric Salado and Luis Pereda.
These are a doctor and an engineer, both of them are fanatical spear fishermen from Cuba.
And they're very classic guys, but you look at them, you couldn't believe how good these guys can dive.
But they go to all these competitions.
So those guys were in the water diving, they're getting the fish in need for the competition.
Free diving or scuba diving?
Free diving, it's all free diving.
So it's in deep water.
They're going probably halfway down, whatever, it's 150 to the bottom.
And the guy in the boat says, Manny, can you give me a spade fish or a sheep pit?
You know, I want to take it home to eat.
The maid in the boat asked me, I said, no problem.
So I took the pole spear, the spade fish swim like mid-water.
So I went down, shot a spade fish, and no time, there were like 20 barracudas on top,
attacking me.
And they were biting at the spade fish.
They were really ready to bite my hands.
And I was literally pushing them away.
I couldn't keep them off of me.
So it occurred to me to pull the knife out, stick it.
So I stuck with the knife and grabbed it by the gills immediately.
When I stabbed them, he bit harder on the piece of fish,
and that gave me a break to grab them real quick.
If not, he'd go to turn on me.
Then I brought him back.
A bull shark came up, he wanted to eat it.
But I wanted a picture with that cuda.
I never caught one with a knife, I'm not going to catch another one.
So I wanted to boat it and get a picture with it.
So I wouldn't let the bull shark have it.
Oh, so what did you do to get the bull shark not to eat it?
I pulled it away from him, charged him, I got aggressive.
Charged the bull shark?
When you're being attacked by a shark, if you show aggression,
that's usually a good way to save you most of the time.
Not always, it'll work.
You want to stay safe from sharks.
There's nothing better than trusting the Lord, the God,
because they're his creatures.
He sent me from them many times.
Let's put it this way.
How did you know that?
How did you know to charge him?
Had you been in that situation before?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by ExpressVPN.
When you use the bathroom, you always close the door behind you, right?
You don't want some random passerby looking in at you.
So why would you let people look in on you when you go online?
Using the internet without ExpressVPN is like using the bathroom
and not shutting the door.
Did you know that internet service providers like AT&T and Verizon
know every single website you visit?
And what's worse is they sell this information to ad companies
and tech giants who will use that data to target you.
ExpressVPN puts a stop to all of this.
It creates a secure encrypted tunnel between you and your device
and the internet so that your online activity can't be seen by anyone.
I personally love using ExpressVPN because Netflix only gives you
a small fraction of their entire content library,
depending on where you're located.
But with ExpressVPN, you can access 100% of their content library,
giving you access to thousands of more shows.
And the best part is using ExpressVPN is as easy as closing the bathroom door.
All you gotta do is fire up the app, press one button, and you're protected.
ExpressVPN is the world's number one rated VPN by TechRadar, The Verge, and Countless Others.
So if you're like me and you think your online activity is your business,
secure yourself by visiting expressvpn.com forward slash Danny today.
Use my link and get an extra three months for free.
It's expressvpn.com forward slash Danny.
Nice link below.
Now back to the show.
Yeah, you gotta fight back, or else if you run from them, I did that experiment.
I saw a shark, okay, I'm gonna swim as fast as I can to the boat to get away, right?
I turned around, the shark was on me immediately.
I did it again, he attacked me again.
So I figured out, okay, if I go after him, he runs you the way.
But if you start panicking, trying to get away, he attacks if he's hungry.
Like when you're free diving, you'll go down.
And as you're coming up for air, sometimes you look down and you see a shark following
you because he thinks you're running away from him and you really need to get up for
air, but it looks like you're on the run.
So you're acting like prey.
He is a predator, predator attacks prey.
If you act like a predator, you scare him away because he thinks you're gonna, sharks
attack each other.
He thinks you're gonna take a chunk out of him.
Like a bull shark will get attacked by a large grade hammerhead, for example.
So he's gonna, every short aggression, his natural instinct is to run from you.
So you can bluff him.
Wow.
Doesn't always work.
You were able to scare the bull shark away and you got that barracuda in the boat.
I've had to fight off bull sharks a million times in my life as a spear fisherman.
And also I used to create shark feeding frenzies for, you know, to interact for the shows and
stuff.
So you can probably, there's videos on YouTube of spear fishermen literally chumming up bull
sharks and then chasing the bull sharks to shoot cobia off of their backs.
And it is like a, I think that's a thing people do still on the East coast where, because
these giant bull sharks, he's like 12, 15 foot long bull sharks will just be cruising.
And there'll be these huge cobia that just swim like alongside them.
They attract the shark by pulling the rubber bands on their spear and popping them.
Then the bull shark thinks you're shooting fish, he runs up or they take a plastic bottle
and make a sound with it.
A crackling sound.
So when he comes up, the guys will go,
That one on the very right, top right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those are following a tiger.
See, they also follow the rays, see?
But what happens is every once in a while, the shark is actually very hungry.
Thank you.
I guess they can catch up.
Shoot that man.
So there's videos of those cobia actually swimming on top of the bull sharks and they
shoot the cobia.
Well, they, they swim, they follow them from behind.
When they shoot them, sometimes the shark will turn around and attack.
I know divers have been demolished by doing that by bull shark.
After they shoot the cobia, the shark turns around instead of going after a cobia goes
after a diver and tears them apart.
That seems like a bad idea.
It's a great, these guys are gutsy.
It's a great adventure.
It's not some way to catch a fish, but it's a bad idea because you're going to get killed
sooner or later.
Right.
So have you ever done this?
No, but I've done other things.
I've shot, I've shot, I've shot fish when I'm running.
Getting out of bait.
I'll shoot fish right there to attract the sharks and everything.
I've done everything you can imagine, you know, to, to attract the, look at this, look
at this.
Yeah.
There we go.
See.
Yeah.
Full screen this if you can, Steven.
Yeah.
There's bull sharks you see everywhere there.
So look, they're surrounded by bull sharks.
Yeah.
Well, a lot of guys get hurt doing that.
You may get away with one.
Whoa.
I don't know.
There's like a hundred bull sharks all around them.
Yeah.
They're looking for a Cobia following one of them.
There's your Cobia right there.
So there's Cobias right there.
Yeah.
See.
Shots the Cobia.
No sharks are chasing him.
Well, sometimes the shark is not hungry.
He's got to be hungry for, for that to happen.
If that shark wanted to, couldn't he just turn around and eat that Cobia?
They do sometimes.
Sometimes they'll eat the Cobia.
Other times they'll eat the.
I'm saying like before they shoot it, before like, even if the.
No.
Look, see it.
There's a bull shark on the attack right there.
That guy fended him off.
No.
No.
Rewind that by like 30 seconds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He knew what he was doing.
Okay.
All right.
Let's see what's going on.
He shot the Cobia.
He's swimming back to the surface.
Here comes the bull shark.
Bull shark attack.
Okay.
See.
Oh, he just pointed the thing at him.
If he, if he turned around and tried to get the boat, that bull shark would have killed
them.
They're getting fired up now.
Oh God.
See.
Yeah.
Look at that.
See how they're under attack.
And there's blood everywhere and everything.
Okay.
Get out of the water.
Get out.
Now what, where does like a bull shark rank on like, as far as like dangerous sharks?
Probably the world's most dangerous shark.
Why is that?
Okay.
This, see how clear that water is.
Yeah.
Imagine being attacked like that and you're in the intercostal with zero visibility.
You won't see him coming.
Right.
They go up river.
They go in the beaches and they attack people.
It's a coastal shark and he's got a hellosius temper on top of that.
He is a man killer, a man eater and he's got hellosius temper and his bite is lethal.
His teeth are razor sharp.
You can shave your arms with them and they can, they can bite three times harder than
a great white shark.
Three times harder.
Yeah.
They're smaller, but they're deadlier.
So, so how would you compare it?
How is that their, their bite is harder than a great white, but why isn't a great white?
So, if you were, if you were hypothetically, we put you in a swimming pool with a great
white and a bull shark, how would the great white be, or how would the bull shark be deadlier
because it would just be more aggressive to eat you?
There's more than the water.
They're, they're very shy, but they're very explosive in their attacks and great whites
are picky eaters.
The bull is not as picky.
Oh, okay.
Like a tiger usually eats a person because he's not as picky eater.
He's, uh, diet is very varied, but a tiger shark doesn't have a bad temper.
Neo does a great white like a bull shark does.
Okay.
Bull shark and lemons have bad tempers.
They have high levels of testosterone.
If, if you spear them and he's on the other line, he'll come after you.
If you're catching a rotten wheel to get into water with them, usually he'll come after you.
Yeah.
These guys are still shooting these Cobia surrounded by these bull sharks.
There might be different days put together, but yeah, a lot of guys have been a bit doing
that.
So this is just normal for when you were spear fishing, doing these competitions, it was
just normal to see these bull sharks.
You just kind of be like, gotta be cognizant.
There for a while, there's a lot of bull shark out there right now.
For many years, there was no sharks.
The, the commercial long-lining had decimated them and there was hardly any sharks around.
So, you know, so they passed all the conservation laws.
Now they're back.
What year did they pass those converse conservation laws?
I'm not sure.
They came little by little.
You know, I understand I was out of commercial spear fishing for quite a while.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
But they, they started a, no, they, they, one species after another started being stopped.
You know, you weren't allowed to kill the, the dusky long fin mako, a whale shark.
Great white shark is protected.
That's why there's more and more now right now.
So, of course, when you protect something, they come back.
The glad grouper was hunted to oblivion.
Now it's coming back.
You start seeing more and more of them.
The sharks are, they're everywhere.
There's a disbalance out there.
You know, every once in a while, a good shark tournament to balance things out might be a good idea.
Yeah.
I like the spearing because you could target the type of shark that needs to be targeted.
Yeah.
Instead of, there was a real rare species.
Bycatch.
You don't want to catch it on bycatch.
So, my idea was, you know, a spearing tournament.
That's my idea.
Nobody, nobody's ever going to agree with me, but to go out and have a tournament, let the
guys shoot several sharks every so often to kind of like level out the fish and shark population
to a balance because it's, it's, if you talk to divers and fishermen, they can't get a
fish in the boat half of the time.
So, is it a, do you think there's a problem with there being, you said there's way too
many sharks out there right now and then people see them everywhere.
Do you think there's a problem with there being too many sharks?
If you're like a biologist, he says, wow, it's a healthy ocean.
It's full of dangerous sharks.
But if you're just a human being, what's it going to water?
It's a bad idea.
You know, it's, it's a balance because depends on how you look at it.
Yeah.
The healthy ocean is a dangerous ocean, but I believe that, you know, God gave us the
right to fish, hunt and, you know, grow crops, harvest food, harvest lumber, whatever we
need from the earth provides.
So, we're not, we don't worship the sharks, the shark, you know, they're in the ocean,
we're caretakers, but it ain't like, oh, it belongs to them.
They're the gods of the sea.
No, they're not.
There's a god that made them, but they're not the gods of the sea.
Many pigs, the god of the sea.
No, no, no.
If there's any human that's closest to Poseidon, it's you.
No, no, no.
Keep it humble.
I'm, I believe in Jesus Christ.
He's my Lord and Savior and I keep it, I keep it of that.
That's his creation.
That's his ocean.
So, his creation has been my adventure.
He kept me alive because he can let those animals tear you apart to keep me humble
there once in a while.
You get things like this.
Oh yeah.
So, hold it up on this side.
Manny's got the, the perma shocker.
This is a rattlesnake bite.
That's the second rattlesnake bite I got.
I got bitten high school on this thumb.
I came out okay from that one.
This is a Western Diamondback in Texas and that was a bad bite.
Yeah.
We're going to, I want to get to that.
I want to stay on the sharks for a little bit though.
I definitely want to talk about that.
And I got bit by sharks.
I got bit by Nalgir in the back.
I came out good from that one.
I came out good from everything except maybe this one.
I got gored by a boar on this farm too.
There's more and more stories popping up every day about people being attacked by sharks.
It seems like it's, I don't know, like it's hard to understand, to really know if it's
just the media blowing shit out of proportion or if this stuff happens all the time.
They just don't always report.
It's increasing.
It's increasing because there's more sharks out there and there's more people in the water.
So, when you put a lot of people, a lot of sharks in the water, you're going to get
more incidents.
Wildlife is making a comeback around the world in many places and there is a lot of wildlife
attacking people as far as bears, tigers, lions, things like that.
Do you know any like the numbers as far as like shark populations now compared to like
30 years ago?
A whole lot more.
A whole lot more.
A whole lot more.
A whole lot more.
Worldwide.
I mean, not worldwide.
US waters.
US waters.
Now, worldwide, yeah, we talk about tiger population is growing in India, for example.
Birds in Africa, yeah, it's growing tremendously.
Mountain lions in North America, yeah, including Florida, yeah, they're increasing.
Bears are increasing.
A few places, wildlife is very endangered, you know, so, Martin Tiger, he's in trouble.
You know, a few species like that, gorillas are thriving, lowland gorilla.
Mountain gorilla, maybe not so, but the lowland, there's parts in the Congo, there's hundreds,
there's a couple hundred thousand of them.
And why are these animals, like, why is there a population growing so fast?
Protection loss, and I also believe as end time, God might be multiplying the animals
for the end time, because they're going to attack people.
Can you explain your belief in that?
The pale, the pale rider and the Bible kills one fourth of the world's population through
war, hunger, disease, pestilence, and by the beast of the earth, wild animals.
The pale rider.
It's a symbol of death, destruction.
That's a biblical thing, so apart from all in all about wildlife, I believe the Bible
word for word, and so it's fitting in the pattern.
You got more wildlife, more attacks, the wolf populations are growing around the world,
and it's more, now, do I like wildlife?
I'm a fanatic about all, I'm fascinated with bears, sharks, alligators, all kinds of fish,
all kinds of wildlife, but I'm a fanatic of all that, but I'm aware that these attacks
have been increasing more and more, like snakes kill 100,000, 100,000 people a year, venomous
snakes.
They used to kill a lot less than that, it's just, it's growing.
How many people do sharks kill a year, do you know?
Not as many as, like...
Maybe you can find that.
Like crocodiles and all that.
They don't really know.
Oh, look at this.
Great white shark population is booming, researchers say.
This is posted literally last month.
Okay, the result of that is, it's real simple.
You can't kill seals, which is what they eat, and you can't kill them, so we've made this
world this design, it's a great white shark haven.
Right there.
A summer begins, and people spend more time in the ocean, researchers are on the verge
of learning more about the mysterious apex predator that swims beneath the surface.
On the research ship, the Atlantic, in the Atlantic Ocean, 12 miles off the coast of
North Carolina, a group of scientists has been studying and tracking great white sharks.
We're seeing an ocean that's teeming with life like we haven't seen since the 40s or
50s.
Chris Fisher, founder of the research organization Osearch, told CBS News.
Osearch has been studying and tagging great whites for the last decade, and that time
that Fisher has observed an increase in the number of white sharks.
Okay, so you believe me now?
Oh yeah, I never doubted you.
Okay, when I was doing my spearfishing, I never once encountered a tiger shark on the
Atlantic, not one time.
Now the guys see them all the time, they have been wiped out, there were no tiger sharks
left.
In the 50s there were, but after that, gone.
Now when I found my first tigers, we were 100 miles in the Gulf of Mexico with a 500
pounds of CUDA ripping them apart.
Hour after hour after hour, we had a couple hundred sharks around us before the tigers
finally showed up.
Those were my first tigers.
And I was hands on right away.
How are you chumming them up?
With what?
Barracuda.
Barracuda.
We went out there, we speared CUDA, after CUDA, after CUDA, after CUDA.
After CUDA, your spear potentially can bite you.
But that was like normal every day, especially filming the sharks.
You got to feed them, or they're not coming.
So you know, you don't buy bait, they're like fresh.
So to get fresh food, you got to get it right there.
We were spear Barracudas to feed them.
When I went to Hawaii, they brought me fresh skipjack tuna.
And that's what I fed the tigers over there.
So you were saying a minute ago, we kind of got up track, but you were saying that the
sound of popping the bands on a spear gun attracts the sharks now.
Because how recent is that?
Sharks are very smart.
They learn.
Yeah.
They, certain places where they know when the fish are pulling up on the boat and they
drop anchor and he's going to start fishing, they pull up because they know he's going
to catch fish and going to steal them.
Sharks are not stupid.
They're smart.
Alligators are not stupid.
They're smart.
Right.
But Florida, we have alligator attacks and shark attacks.
I know when U.S. waters are big because they're protected.
Now if you go to maybe South China Sea, they might be getting exterminated over there.
I'm not sure.
Like China's just about wiped out the Chinese tiger.
Really?
Yeah.
They have Manchurian tiger, which is borders Russia because that's really a Russian protected.
There have been two 10, 12 foot tiger sharks that have been caught right off the beach right
here in the last week.
20 years ago, you won that was unheard of.
Right.
The tigers are back.
Let's pull up that video of that guy in Egypt who got eaten by the tiger shark.
Now I told you this on the phone, I was like freaked out when I saw this because I have
never, I already pulled a tab out for you.
I have never heard other than like open ocean shipwrecks with like, you know, way out in
the middle of the ocean where like the oceanic white tips will devour and eat the people
because there's nothing else to eat.
It's like a desert out there.
But I've never heard of a story of somebody near the beach getting fully devoured by a
shark.
Like I've heard, like obviously you hear the bites.
Well, there was a girl killed in shallow water in the Bahamas in front of her parents
by three tiger sharks, eight are in front of her family recently.
There's no video of it, but they killed her.
The parents saw it.
Three of them.
The tiger shark came up on the daughter on Hog Island right there where the hogs go
swimming.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
In the shallow water, she was in there swimming.
What?
And they got her there.
There's a lot of, there's a tiger beach in the Bahamas, there's a lot of tigers there.
And they, you know, when they say they're hungry, they're not dasa.
They can pick up speed and they're devastating predators.
Do you think there's a, let's watch this, yeah, full screen that video.
In the Red Sea, the Red Sea has, when you're off the shore, just a little distance, it
drops to incredible depth.
Oh really?
So you could be on the beach and you could see an oceanic white tip because you swim
a hundred feet from shore in some places and it drops thousands of feet.
So you have these ocean sharks that come in here.
There were three attacks in the Red Sea not too long ago by Mako shark and oceanic white
tip.
The Mako, they caught them later on with human remains on his belly.
And because you go off, there were divers, you go off the reef, you know, a hundred feet
or so and you're ready in the middle of the ocean because it's, so the pelagic sharks
can visit you right there.
But the Red Sea has tigers, Makos and oceanic white tips.
Yeah, I think this was like the third tiger shark fatality in like the last two years
off of the same beach in Egypt.
Yeah it's the Red Sea.
So what is going on here?
It's not full screening?
No.
What the frick?
Try that.
There you go.
There it goes.
Right there.
Not full screening?
No.
That's okay.
It doesn't matter because we're not going to see it anyways.
So what is the shark doing to him right there?
Cutting him to pieces.
They recovered his body the next day.
He's screaming.
He's screaming for help.
It might have bit a leg off already.
This is horrible.
There he goes.
Understand that he's attacking like there's a turtle.
He's barely moving.
Okay.
A tiger shark's teeth.
Look.
Okay, you can pause it.
A tiger shark's teeth look like this.
They aim this way and then they also aim the other way.
So what it does is it's designed for cutting turtle shells in half.
So he saws back and forth so he can slide through bones and everything like this.
That's what a teeth saw.
It's not just like a giant saw.
One after another goes like this.
So he does this and then he'll, they'll either keep sawing until they cut a piece of turtle
shell.
They eat the sea turtles.
So it's a tiger shark is designed.
It's a devastating predator.
Yeah.
And I guess this was a, this was actually a pregnant from what I read.
This was a pregnant female that was like roaming around.
They had footage of the shark actually on Twitter swimming like around the docks very
slowly and they saw it like up to an hour before this happened.
Looking for food.
Sometimes you know, they don't find fish to lead the person.
So what do you do?
What, what would you do in this situation?
Well, if you were this kid out there, they'll go in the water with, if it's clear water
which it is out there, don't go in the water without a mask, snorkel in fins and bring
a shark Billy with you to push a shark off, to discourage his attack, you know, make
him go somewhere else, fight him, something to fight him with.
But if you don't have any of that, like if you're just swimming with no, no fins, no,
no mask, but I'm saying if you already are, what the hell do you do?
Nothing.
You can't do anything about it.
That guy, no, he's a sitting duck.
He can't do anything about it.
It's in, you know, pray, pray to the God that he changes, sends the sharks on a miracle,
only a miracle can save him at that time.
What about like, if hypothetically you're in that situation, do you try to charge it?
Do you try to swim towards it?
What do you try to do?
Well, grab its gills.
If he's in shallow water and you can run up to it and see him, you can kick him when
he comes near you or something like that.
The water's like this deep, but if you're over your head and everything, you, you, you,
he's come from below.
You don't know where he's coming from.
You don't have a mask on.
You have no idea.
You're sitting in the blind, you're sitting duck, you're totally helpless, but a skilled
diver like those guys are hunting the, the Kobias or myself, whatever, you can fight
them off.
I've had to fight off sharks many, many times on the attacks.
I mean, super intense attacks.
If you're on the beach watching this, what would you do?
I was too comfortable out there doing this kind of stuff.
Way, way, way too comfortable.
All my life, it was like a second nature to me to be in the middle of a shark feeding
frenzy.
It's like being in a party.
It was just enjoyed every minute of it.
But that's part of it.
That's part of it too though, because you're so calm, the sharks don't sense any sort
of fear.
Well, if you get excited, sometimes they back away.
It can affect them in different ways.
But the whole idea was for me to get the sharks fired up so they will come in aggressively
to get footage of it.
They're off in a distance.
You're not getting anything.
So you want the sharks on you.
Now what that does, it puts everybody who's ever working with you in severe danger.
Right.
And people, people start to get scared too.
Well, if you have people with you, they're not scared, they'll be right there with you.
There are people that are like that kind of stuff and they'll stay right there.
Not everybody is willing to do that.
But I give people a false sense of security when I was in the water.
Yeah, Steve was talking about that.
Yeah.
Steve was saying whenever they were in the water with you, he wasn't as scared because
you were there.
He felt protected.
He wouldn't pay attention.
I call it, it's a false sense of security, but it works.
You get that, you know, he's more comfortable there.
I put him in bad stuff on a surfboard with a bunch of sharks biting fish around the surfboard.
Didn't you tell me that he want him or Chris Pontius, they wanted to be trolled through
Boca Grande in a tarpon suit?
They told, they did, I'm trying to remember everything they did, they come up with a bunch
of ideas that I didn't do all of the ideas they had.
Right.
I think we did troll Chris through a pack of killer whales in Alaska, which is probably
the worst thing ever, because everybody thinks killer whales are just, no, no, killer whales
are dangerous.
They're dangerous.
The thing about, I can bluff a shark.
I can defend myself.
You believe most of those guys can, but killer whales are after you, then you're not going
to be able to do anything.
I've never heard of a killer whale attacking a human being of you.
Well, and SeaWorld won't kill three people.
Right.
Yeah.
That one murdered three people because of what they fucking did to it.
They put it in prison.
What about if a killer whale in the ocean decides it doesn't like you, where it feels like,
it doesn't have any laws.
He doesn't have a rule book.
Okay.
I'm not supposed to bother people.
Where does that, he could just, like any animal, listen, a horse can come up and kick
you and bite you.
Right.
Okay.
A dog will bite you sometimes.
Sometimes they won't.
Killer whales, they have different personalities.
Don't they gain up on great whites?
They kill great whites.
They know how they're smart.
They know how to kill everything out there, just, you know, like, if I'm going to catch
a fish strategically, you've figured out how to do it.
They strategically figure out, okay, that whale is bigger than us, but we're going to
gang up on it.
We're going to attack it this way.
They figure out how to do their hunt and how to get it.
So when you were, oh yeah, and they beached themselves too.
They literally freaking swim up on the beach and eat shit, eat seals and stuff.
Look at that.
God.
Yeah.
Those things are crazy.
The wild world is a dangerous place.
You swam with orcas, right?
Yeah.
In Alaska.
Walk me through that day and what you were doing and what made you decide to jump off
the boat with a bunch of orcas?
We're making a show.
We need action.
I had the, we're doing a wild boys and we went out whale watching.
So I put on my suit.
They go, okay, there's a pot of killer whales coming this way and I told the captain, okay,
they're heading that way.
Take your boat, pull up in front and drop me off in their path.
So they'll intercept me.
And that's how we did that.
And they came real close to me.
The water was very dirty so I could only see them and they were very, very close to me.
What visibility was like what, four or five feet?
I don't think I could see you.
Wow.
That's how dirty it was.
But I could see the fins and all that coming up and then finally a two of them approaching
me.
I could see the black and white on them real close up to me like that.
They stared at me up close, investigated me, but all I got to do is just bite you.
That's it.
They're down.
They just grab on you and just drag you down.
Yeah, but when your adrenaline's running or doing a show, it's like the pressure is
on.
Let's make things happen.
You want to do the best of what you, you want your job to be the best.
What was going through your head when those orcas were something right towards you?
Were you scared?
Were you comfortable?
Were you just full of adrenaline?
I wasn't.
I was full of adrenaline, but I shouldn't be comfortable.
I shouldn't, I shouldn't do that again.
But at that time, the water's very dirty.
People did it later on in clear water, but I did it in dirty water.
And some people think everything, nothing is fine.
You feel like for a while, okay, we're okay.
We're fine.
They didn't hurt anybody.
We're fine.
Keep going.
Okay.
We got what we want.
Let's just get out of here.
It's enough is enough.
Oh, what is, oh, is that an orca attacking a human at SeaWorld?
Yeah.
Jeez.
Yeah, that's brutal, man.
See, everything's okay one minute, then you don't know what a killer whale is thinking
sometimes.
That's an intelligent animal.
Every animal, every alligator, when we haven't talked much about alligators, I'd spend many
years among the alligators, daytime, nighttime, diving with them at all hours, everything,
big ones, small ones, hand catching, riding, levitating, tonic immobility, you name it.
Well, let's, let's go into that.
I want to watch that video of you with the Makos real quick.
Okay.
Let's, that's one of the tabs where he's a, that's, that's the one right there.
So what were you guys doing this day, who this was filming for?
We're looking, we're on the middle of the Pacific Ocean.
I think you could full screen this one, I think.
Yeah.
In the full, in the Pacific Ocean.
And all the time they're asking me to talk about, I don't want to talk about it until
it happens.
I don't know what's going to happen.
Is this off the coast of California?
Yeah.
See, that's, that's a, you know, that's a Mako right there, but you see, I hand feed and
I put my hand underneath them and I lift up on them.
Okay.
That's a smaller Mako.
Six Makos and three blue sharks that day.
So you guys are chumming up Barracuda and getting this thing in my tear.
But what really does it, see that fish right there?
Yeah.
I'm going to take my knife and work it.
Right.
See what I'm doing right there?
That's what makes it happen.
That's what draws the sharks in.
Okay.
The knife is a secret for all that.
That's a small Mako.
So yeah, that was the first one that showed up and you guys are just, you guys are literally
surrounded by a chum tornado.
I grabbed this one and another one and then I, I flip a big one on his back.
This one, I, I, I lift them out of the water and I show them to everybody.
It is the fastest shark in the world.
The Mako.
Yeah.
So you don't want to move fast.
So you want to let them get comfortable.
Like right there.
You want him to go slow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You just, you just got to take it easy and don't move fast.
They don't come around you.
You don't want to scare them.
This one bites the, the float.
They get, they get feisty.
Mako is very dangerous, but see this Mako is never going to see another human being
again.
He lives in the middle of the ocean.
Right, right.
So I like working with them because people say, well, man, you're, you're working these,
these sharks around the beach.
You know, these, the blues and Makos are not coming to shore.
I've worked coastal sharks before, but it's been a long time and I won't, I won't work
them again.
If I do sharks again, it'll be open ocean.
That way they don't, whatever I do with them, they don't learn, they don't pick up custom.
They won't attack people on the beach.
They stay out in the ocean.
So people are safe.
You don't want them getting comfortable with humans.
See what?
Oh yeah.
You flipped it on its back.
Wow.
Those little teeth of yours.
You're hand feeding this little Mako and he's just shredding this fish right out of your
hands.
That is wild.
So yeah, that's the fear, right?
That's the fear when you interact with all these sharks all the time and you're swimming
with them and spearfishing with them all the time.
They get used to human beings and they're not, they're not afraid anymore.
If you're spearfishing, you're worse off because you're busy struggling with the fish when
the shark comes from behind and gets you.
The shark's not attacked from behind when you don't see them.
Look at that thing.
What's that, like a 10-footer?
Probably about eight.
It's a nice size Mako.
Always exaggerating on the show.
We're not sure in the size, but it's probably about 300 pounds.
They're very heavy.
A lot heavier than they look.
They're dense.
They're very muscular.
Were you ever close to being bit that day or did they try to bite you?
Some blue shark almost bit me in the stomach.
There's a scene in there where I'm pushing off a blue shark off my stomach as I'm feeding
a Mako and the blue comes in to bite both at the same time.
What is that?
What is that blue?
Blue shark, yeah.
We have three blue sharks.
What is the story with blue sharks?
They're deadly.
As deadly as Makos?
They're different.
They're both very dangerous, but a blue shark, if you offer him your hand, he'll take
it.
Go here.
Are you going to bite this?
Just come up and he'll grab it.
They're weird looking.
See, I'm hand feeding them right there.
You did this with Steve-O and those guys too?
We did not this part, but what I did with them is I put them on a surfboard one time
in the Gulf of Mexico.
We put a bunch of fish on them.
We had about 25 silky sharks and eight huge duskies showed up.
I had them there.
I also had them with a Mako and a Hammerhead and Mako.
I put them with a Hammerhead and Mako in Louisiana also.
The two in Louisiana and also put them before with a lemon shark and shallow water swimming
around them.
I've had them about three different times with good, good shark stuff.
The Mako almost bit his leg off.
That was a classic.
Is that when you got bit by the lemon shark?
No, I got bit by a lemon shark when we used to dive on them from the boat.
Okay.
What point were you riding those great Hammerheads?
That was, I sat one day and I looked at the footage and said, I can ride these things.
People said, you're not going to be able to, they're not going to let you do that.
I went out planning on doing it and I did it.
Where were you?
In the Keys.
In the Keys.
After that, I just rode plenty of Hammerheads.
He doesn't have a bad temper.
I discovered that.
I rode a bull shark and I rode a short distance.
When I let go of the bull shark, the bull shark went after me, everything he had.
Really?
I had to fight him off.
What did you have to fight him off?
My kicking him, punching him, everything you can imagine.
Did you have a spear gun or anything, a knife or anything?
No.
That time because we had pole spears for getting bait.
But a lot of times we'd drop everything and we were in there with our hands.
But we were getting bait.
We had some stingrays to be a kill down there and they devoured stingrays in no time.
A bunch of bull sharks showed up, they devoured it, the water was very dirty too.
And I went down and I caught a ride on one of them.
It was a huge one.
And I knew that not to stay on it very long, do a very short ride or he's going to come
and get it.
Same thing with the lemon.
He'll come back and get you.
Can you find a footage of him riding the Hammerheads?
Because that footage is wild.
Because the Hammerheads are interesting too.
The Hammerheads, they never bite humans.
Do they?
They'll ever attack a human on the beach.
I've never heard of a Hammerhead.
Yeah.
Hammerhead will attack you.
They will.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
So we wanted to, we were just looking at, we were trying to find the footage you ride
the Hammerhead, but you rode a Mako.
So this is footage of you riding a...
Hand catching.
Hand catching.
It's hand catching a Mako.
Your hand catching a Mako shark.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
Take it from the first.
It shows you how I grab them at first.
So if you rewind like a little bit, maybe a minute.
Okay.
Look at that thing.
How big is that Mako shark right there?
That Mako is about, I'd say five and a half feet, about a hundred and something pounds.
This is a very strong shark.
It looks much bigger than five and a half feet.
It might be.
It might be.
It's very, I understand it very dense.
It could be 180 pounds.
Right.
See how I...
He just hugs it.
He's my hands on him.
Yeah.
Because there he goes.
He's like, what the fuck is happening to me?
Yeah.
So this is how you hand catch a Mako shark.
He's not trying to bite you at all.
If you give him the chance, he will.
Manny, that is the most insane thing I've ever seen.
People that are just listening, Manny is hugging this six foot Mako shark and the thing is swimming
full speed and Manny is not letting go of it.
I'm going to let go when I get back.
I told the guy, I'm going to end up back at the boat.
If I didn't have camera with me or something I needed to eat, we would have kept him and
said, I'm going to let him.
There's a producer right now.
Okay.
Now his mouth's open.
Yeah.
I'm going to let him go.
But I would have tried to keep him, but we got the footage.
You know that Mako stayed with us the rest of the day.
Did he really?
After you did that to him?
He hung out the rest of the day.
All the Mako stayed with us.
Manny, come back.
I want seconds.
No, they don't really care.
This is another one that showed up.
They kept getting bigger ones and bigger ones.
That's a blue.
The blues are kind of goofy looking.
They're like little torpedoes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They are.
You know what else is a weird looking shark is the Thresher shark.
They're kind of goofy looking.
I've never seen one.
They can hit you with a tail.
That's what they do.
Yeah.
They have a massive tail.
This is a classic shark though.
This is like for fishermen when it's hooked, it'll jump 20 feet in the air, land in the
boat, bite the fisherman.
The Mako?
Oh yeah.
They'll jump right into the boat.
Yeah.
There's that girl.
What's her name?
Ocean Ramsey.
I think she rides great whites.
Like she should be like holding on to this great white riding it in Mexico.
I think it's in Hawaii.
Oh, that's in Hawaii.
There's great whites in Hawaii really?
Yeah.
I think that some of those sharks, if they're well fed and all that, they're not hungry,
you can put your whole family on there.
You know, they're not going to do anything.
Her videos on Instagram are absurd.
She is swimming and like kissing these 20-foot tiger sharks on the mouth, like on the nose,
and they're like ...
There's a lot of people doing that right now.
I was in Hawaii messing with them 20-something years ago before they were, and she picked
up where Jimmy Hall left off and everything, those guys.
But I opened the door for the tigers.
Click that top one.
You can't do this unless you know for a fact that shark is well fed, right?
You can.
They show the docile side.
I would fire the sharks up, so I did a different.
Right, right.
But still, to ride a great white.
You can ride one tomorrow.
If you get the wrong one the wrong time, it might not come out as well.
So they have like different personalities each one.
The shark is not being aggressive, it's not being hungry.
It's none of that.
He's just cruising.
Yeah.
She dives down and she grabs this great white by the dorsal fin.
At that point, if he wants to kill you, he can.
Oh my God.
At that point, it's like ... Jesus.
At that point, it's like riding a whale shark.
How big is that thing, Manny?
That's about as big as they get.
15-foot?
16 maybe, more.
I think the biggest one they were taking was 19 and a half feet in Cuba.
It was long line when they were hunting for the liver.
Sharks were depleted back in 1945 completely.
The ocean was wiped out, then they came back, then they were depleted again, and now they're
back again.
So it's always been, depending on the harvesting.
There's been a bunch of tiger sharks attacking people in, I think, in Hawaii recently.
You saw the video, the tiger shark attacking the guy in the kayak.
The thing just torpedoes and grabs his kayak.
Hawaii in the old days, they've always had shark attacks there.
They have a higher tiger shark population than other areas.
They don't have bull sharks in Hawaii to compete with them.
This is it, yeah.
But that's crazy for a tiger shark to do that to a kayak.
Look at this.
You just had a full screen?
See, when that shark is acting like that, I've had them before where they attacked the,
although you know the boat, they attacked the cameraman.
See, if you jump in with that shark at that moment, it may not be as docile.
It may be, if that shark sneaks upon you, it's not going to be pretty.
Right.
See the speed of where she comes?
You got to know people who know, they know who to play with, who not to.
Right.
There was that, there was another, I told you another story recently.
There was this film crew that was out off one of the, one of the outer islands off Oahu
and they were like scouting for a film shoot or whatever.
And they had one of those inflatable motor, what does it call, what are the inflatable
boats called, but the motor's on them?
Oh yeah, zodiac.
Yeah, the zodiac.
They were in a zodiac and a tiger shark bit the zodiac like a bunch of times and the thing
was deflating.
So they had to like haul ass back to shore.
They were like 300 yards or something off the beach.
So they had to like take the zodiac full speed back to the beach.
So they got back just in time, but the tiger followed them all the way back to the beach.
These tiger sharks, these animals, they have behaviors that humans, beings have never
seen before.
When people think they know everything, they don't know anything.
They're going to do something you never seen and do before.
They seem hungrier than they've ever been though.
They seem like they're fucking with us more and more.
Well, if there's more sharks, they're going to wipe out their food supply.
Right.
Right.
And you know, it's just like normal.
So there's more company.
The more sharks there are, the less fish there are to go around.
Something like that.
In Brazil, there was people, it was a slaughterhouse.
They used to throw all the leftovers from the cows into the ocean and the boat sharks
would come and eat them.
They shut down the slaughterhouse.
So the sharks moved on to the beach and started attacking people.
That's another result of that.
We've always fed animals.
Just in the last few years, people say, oh, it's bad to feed you all.
But men for hundreds of years have fed wild animals.
We've always have.
We fed bears.
We fed alligators.
We fed deer.
Everything is out there.
Then in my lifetime, I saw it and also, oh, that's a bad idea.
It became like a political thing.
Illegal to feed animals is bad.
They're getting accustomed to this, accustomed to that.
Again, at days, that's like, yeah, people went to Yellowstone to feed the bears.
They went to the geese to feed the key deer and the Everglades National Park and fed
the alligators.
That was normal behavior for humans to do.
It's a political thing because everybody is so against killing the sharks.
Like don't fuck with the sharks.
Before they wanted to kill them all.
That's politics.
Now they don't want to kill them.
Everybody was killing them when I was trying to film them.
I say, guys, I told my friends, we're going to fish.
We're going to kill them over here because you're trying to get footage.
They're dead.
We can't film them.
Right.
Yeah, we need more.
I need sharks.
I was like, go get them somewhere else.
That was my mentality.
I'd find a honey hole, okay, leave this spot alone for me and let me work this area where
I can find them because we'd go out time after time.
We couldn't find them.
I was an expert at drawing in sharks.
There's a shark 10 miles away.
You're coming them up.
You couldn't find them.
I'm an expert.
That was the best shark summer on the planet.
Right.
I mean, I'm stupid of many things, but I was good at that.
If the president of the United States came to you, if President Joe Biden said, Manny
Pwig, I want you to be in charge of all of the fisheries around the world.
You're in charge of conservation of all the sea life.
What would you make the rules for sharks?
I would do the smartest thing to do.
I don't want any species going extinct.
I would divide them up according to numbers and say, we can take this.
We can't take this.
So many of this.
So many of that.
And I would encourage like harpooning so people don't get the wrong type of shark.
Spear fishing and harpooning.
Spear fishing, harpooning.
So you can target exactly what you want.
Target exactly what you want.
A lot of people, you know, I'm not going to go against rotten real guys and everything,
but you know, some of the sharks that catch them and let them go, they're going to die
anyways.
They've ran into death anyways.
But you know, you kill one shark and another one's born to take its place.
None of the species that I know have people made extinct.
We didn't make the hammerhead go extinct.
We didn't make the lemon go extinct.
The bulls are not extinct.
The great whites didn't go extinct.
And matter of fact, they come back.
So we haven't hunted a species in Florida into extinction.
The only thing we ran to extinction in Florida was a black wolf, the great wolf and the
red wolf.
We wiped those out.
Now we've got coyotes.
Now we've got coyotes in Florida.
Now we've got coyotes.
Our bear is still here and good numbers, lots of them.
Our Florida panthers coming back, which is a Florida mountain lion, that's what it is.
It's just animals of widespread over North America, including Florida.
But everything else, yeah, the boars were brought by the Spaniards 500 years ago.
The boars?
Yeah.
They're good, the hogs.
They're good because that's what a panther eats.
If you get rid of them, the panther's going to eat the farmer's cow.
They're going to eat the deer.
The hunter's going to get pissed off at them as they're killing all the deer.
So don't wipe out the boars.
I don't want the panthers extinct either, do they?
So don't wipe them out.
I see everything as renewable resource in a game animal.
If you cut a tree, another tree will grow, but you don't abuse anything, but you can
harvest so many pounds of fish, so many pounds of this as food.
The ocean is not a natural park.
God made us so we could catch fish and eat.
I have my views.
This planet is not overpopulated.
We can have dense populations in one place like Miami.
Maybe there's a lot of people there, but over all the entire planet, we're not overpopulated.
That's fallacy.
We have a lot of wildlife.
We have a lot of good land.
This planet produces a lot of food and properly managed.
We got room for double what we have and triple what we have as far as human beings.
I was reading something recently that was like a study or a statistic that if you took
all the human beings on earth, shoulder to shoulder, you could fit them all inside the
city of Los Angeles.
That's how few humans there are.
That's like nine billion.
You can.
A population has dropped the last 10 years or so.
We're losing people.
It's a lot to do with the plastics and shit.
So we drink the water out of cans, not plastic, but the phthalates and the chemicals.
It's a culture.
People are not having kids.
Some people, yeah, they're bent on wars.
Probably in Russia, Ukraine, there's about a quarter of a million dead people on both
sides there.
Easy.
Yeah, that's a lot of people that would have been alive.
It wasn't for the war.
You got a war.
People die.
You know that tiger shark that killed that guy?
That was a Russian guy.
There was a footage of him when he was right before he got eaten by that tiger shark.
I guess he was piling around in a kayak like 10 minutes before that, and he was talking
shit about Ukrainians, and then he gets eaten by a tiger shark.
Yeah, you know, people, in all reality, I don't know, I respect human life.
I'm a Christian.
I do animals.
You can kill them for food.
I don't believe in abusing animals, torturing or anything like that.
But yeah, hunting for food, growing cows for food is fine.
Growing crops, harvesting lumber, it'll slow down the fires, trees grow back, recycling
the forest makes everything.
Humans are not just damaging.
When you clear land, let's say for cattle in Florida, that brings more grass.
When you got more grass, you got more deer, more hogs, and then you got more panther,
more bobcat.
When you have a very, a virgin forest, it has less wildlife.
We go in the ocean, we sink a wreck.
That's fish come and live there.
So a lot of what we do helps out.
We dig a canal.
There's a drought, the fish go in the canal.
If not, a lot of the fish would have died, so not everything, the deer, there's more
deer around the farm than in the middle of the forest, because the farm has got sources
of food.
Right.
So for every deer we had in North America now, we got 30 more than at a time when the
European settlers first got here.
Right.
The population of deer has grown 30 times over.
For every one they had, we got 30 now.
That's so much deer we have because woods and farm, woods and farm, woods and farm.
Yeah.
One of the biggest, one of the most controversial topics surrounding this debate is the Amazon
rainforest in like down in Brazil and in the Amazon.
It's a bunch of baloney.
When I was a little boy, I couldn't go back.
The Amazon was going to be gone in 10 years, so it was completely destroyed or cutting
and burning it like you could see from outer space.
I was like, oh, wow, they're going to wipe out the Amazon.
That's terrible.
There are going to be no animals left.
This is me back then.
When you were 10?
Yeah.
Now, the Amazon is the same.
If anything is bigger, there's animals like crazy.
Look at Pantanal, every 10 feet is a jaguar.
Nowadays, well, they wipe out all the caiman.
So the jaguars started tagging the cows and they shot the jaguars.
Now the caiman are back.
The jaguars are laying off the cows mostly and eating the caiman in a Pantanal.
But the jaguars, have you seen the footage?
It's just like this.
20 feet away from the guys.
No, I haven't.
Oh, I look at my phone every day.
So there's my buddy Paul Rosalie, he wrote that Mother of God book.
He moved down to the Amazon when he was in his late teens and he started living down
there and he's been following what's been going on and it's crazy how many more roads
there are now, 20 years later and how many people are coming in.
The Chinese are coming in and contracting all the locals there to cut down all the trees
and sell them off.
Well, they're going on Indian land.
That land belong to, if you own a ranch, it's your ranch.
If the Indians have a plot of land, that's your ranch.
Private property.
Yeah, they're just stepping on, well, they're bringing the Chinese, it's communism kicking
in there again.
They're going to wreck the place.
But yeah, but all those roads, guess what, the jungle will grow over that in 10 minutes.
You'll leave it alone.
Right.
The wildlife will come back.
Right, but they're not going to leave it alone.
Now, if you clear, well, sooner or later something will happen, they'll leave it alone.
If you clear a forest.
Yeah, something will happen like our species will get wiped out.
If you clear a forest, like in the Amazon, when the grass starts to grow, all the animals
of the forest will be there eating that.
So in Florida, when you burn a field, you burn it down, you go back three, six months
and all the deer and hogs are there.
They're eating the new grass growing.
So the forest has to be recycled.
So when you do that in certain parts of the Amazon, they get burned, they get cut down.
When it starts to grow back, that's where the animals go.
The pure, pure virgin forest doesn't support that much wildlife.
And Russia, yeah, it doesn't.
They go to where the people are in Russia when they started cutting down all the trees
to sell them.
Oh, wow, they're destroying the tiger forest.
There's more grass, the stag population exploded.
So then the wolf population went up to 200,000 because that was so much stag.
Wow.
In other words, if there's a lot of fish out there, you're going to get a lot of sharks.
If there's a lot of hogs in the woods, you're going to get panthers.
You know, it's an area with a lot of fish in game, you're going to get alligators.
The animals or the deer, if you have a corn field in the middle of the forest, all the
deer are going to be there.
And they're going to grow bigger eating that corn.
So whatever, like the Native Americans, they lived in the East, they didn't have to go
into the woods to get a deer.
They grew corn.
So what they had to do was wait on the edge of the corn field with a bow and arrow and
they could get all the deer they wanted because they were going to come there.
That's nobody ever thought of that, but that's typically, if it's like that now, it was like
that back then.
Nothing has changed.
Right.
That's interesting.
People have a lot of fallacy about everything, about the wildlife and what to do about it
and how to manage it and this and that.
They go from extreme to extreme.
They go from exterminate everything to overprotect everything.
They don't seem to do things properly the way it should be done over the years.
I've taken a lot of interest in that kind of stuff is I've been watching it all my life
and I kept track.
When I was a kid, there were 8,000 polar bears because I was into it back then.
I looked it up.
Now there's between 30 and 50,000.
When I was a kid, by the time I was in high school, the leopard population in Africa,
Sub Sahara, was about 50,000.
They were getting wiped out for the skins.
Now it's about 700,000 leopards.
The tiger population was down to 2,000.
Last year went up to 3,000 overnight, one year in India.
The Jala Tiger, when I was a kid around, completely extinct.
So a few areas, they were completely annihilated, but other areas, grizzly bear populations,
120,000 worldwide, including 6,000 in Japan.
Most people don't know that.
There's 6,000 grizzlies live in Japan.
Does anybody talk about it?
No.
Are people worried about grizzlies being endangered?
They were back then.
The Mexican grizzly was wiped out.
When I was a kid, there were still some there.
I kept track of that.
A lot of different species like that.
Mexican wolf, I think it was completely wiped out.
They're trying to bring it back.
In Jaguars in North America, there's a few in Arizona.
They used to be in Texas.
There's no cavemen up there in some of these areas.
There's a few alligators, but they're eating cattle, so the ranchers shot them all.
So there's none, except a few in Arizona.
They're crossing the border from Mexico.
Mount Lannes found from Canada to Argentina, Patagonia, southern Argentina.
The Amazon deserts, every type of terrain you can find.
There are mountains, lowlands, everything.
Wow.
Yeah.
It's crazy how much different information you can find when you try to search for this
kind of stuff.
It's really hard to find the information people do all over the place.
You got to go to old information from the old days, so they don't change it and go to
the archives because somebody will grab the book and rearrange it.
So I go back to what I knew back then.
I'm a history fanatic.
Most people don't know that, but I like to read the history.
I like to read my Bible on a firm believer in Jesus Christ, and definitely we're supposed
to manage the fisheries, the forest, food and all that, not to destroy it, not to wipe
it out, or not to treat it like a God where you can't ... Some people want to make the
entire ocean to a national park.
What are we going to eat?
Do they really?
Some people do.
Yeah.
They want to save everything, and they think the humans are a scourge of the earth, and
they need to get rid of the world population and get rid of people because they're bad.
As a Christian, I don't believe that, but people don't.
Well, I mean, I can see their perspective for sure.
We are kind of like a cancer on the earth.
We're just eating up the earth, and our history, look at what we've done, like with the way
we just devour everything and pollute the earth.
Because we're sinful.
We're sinful.
We kill each other.
Never mind what we do.
We do wild animals.
We're killing each other.
We have ... People need to respect other people, respect life in general, but no.
Wild life is a renewable resource, and certain areas need to be protected, other areas need
to be open and back and forth, but there's nothing wrong with raising cattle.
There's nothing wrong with growing rice.
There's nothing wrong with fishing.
I used to commercial fish myself, and we sold the fish.
Back then, everybody, oh, meat is bad for you, so everybody's eating fish, and then
they're complaining, oh, they're eating all the fish, but before, there was fish everywhere.
Nobody liked fish.
Everybody wanted beef, and they started telling beef is bad for you, became a little thing.
You got to eat fish.
It's healthy.
The next thing you know, everybody, the commercial guys in the ocean, then they ravish, wipe
out the sea, and everybody, whoa, you guys said, stop eating beef, you start eating fish,
now they're complaining about it.
See the insanity of the whole thing.
Yeah, it really is insanity.
Do people really eat barracuda?
Yeah.
How many people?
Because I'm going to ... Cubans.
Cubans.
It's a Cuban thing.
I've eaten a lot of barracuda in my time.
It's one of my favorite fish.
You said it tastes good.
It's really good fish.
But what about singletera poisoning?
That's the problem.
Now, why do they have singletera, and what is singletera poisoning?
Singletera is a toxin passed up the food chain.
It starts a little fish eating it off the coral, and then the barracuda, the older the
fish gets, the bigger he is and older, the more of that toxin accumulates.
When he has too much of a toxin in his body, it becomes a poisonous to human consumption.
It doesn't hurt the fish.
It looks perfectly fine, but if you eat it, you'll get real sick.
And why do barracudas have it?
They didn't just barracudas, grouper, snapper, amberjack, kingfish.
They all have it.
Any big predatory fish in the tropics can have it.
It's called tropical fish poisoning.
It grows in the tropics.
The further north, the less likely you'll get singletera, unless a barracuda swam from
the Bahamas to North Carolina, which it could happen.
And then somebody caught an eater over there, and he got sick as I'll get out.
But if they're up in that area, none of that grows here.
So it's less likely they'll get up there, but eat at your own risk.
But it seems like people associate singletera with barracudas more than anything.
It's like, it's politics.
It's just segregation.
Is it?
Yeah, yeah.
A lot of people never got it from a barracuda.
They got it from a grouper.
I never got it from a barracuda.
I got it from a grouper.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
What is it like when you have it?
What were your symptoms?
Diarrhea, nonstop, things that are cold feel hot.
It affects your nerves.
It's really messed up, and it takes a long time to get over it.
How long?
It could be years to finally get over it.
And if you eat another fish that has a little bit on it, you'll get their symptoms right
back.
Really?
So you got to lay off a fish for a long, long time.
I was eating freshwater fish for a very long time.
What does barracuda taste like?
It tastes like, I'll compare it to snook.
Really good, huh?
Mm-hmm.
Better than kingfish.
Oh, way better.
That's wild.
No, it's a great fish.
In certain places, like in Central America, I've talked to some people, I've never heard
of that.
They ate all the barracudas they caught.
There are places where people eat them, and they don't know, see what there doesn't grow
everywhere.
Mm-hmm.
It's only in certain areas.
So if you catch one, like the Carolinas or in Florida, a small one, you should be fine?
You should be fine.
You should be, but I'm not responsible for it.
Right.
You don't condone it, right?
I don't know.
You're going to do it.
Like I tell people, you want to swim with sharks is a great idea, but they're dangerous
or they bite you.
You know, I'm giving you a heads up warning.
Mm-hmm.
Well, you told me it was fine.
No, no.
I'm telling you right now, swimming with alligators or sharks is deadly.
Picking up venomous snakes is deadly.
All that free diving for spear fishing, you can black out.
You can get attacked by sharks.
Sharks are not misunderstood.
Put this in your head.
It's a very dangerous, predatory animal.
You know, it makes it, the sea unsafe.
What is that?
Do I like sharks?
Yeah.
I think they're magnificent or whatever, but they are dangerous.
And same thing with alligators.
They're magnificent or what?
But they're dangerous.
Now, alligators are very well managed in Florida.
They're not protected?
They are protected unless you get your license.
When season comes around, you get a tag, you get your license, you can hunt it.
So they don't let you just go out and fill up a truck with them.
You know, you got to follow the rules and regulations, which is orchestrated to protect
the alligator as a natural resource in a game animal in Florida.
You know, it's big money on gator hunting and gator farming and the whole nine yards.
It's a valuable resource, but he's also a very dangerous resource.
The alligators, 400 years ago, when the French naturalists came to Florida, he couldn't cross
St. John's River in a canoe without getting attacked by alligators.
They attacked the Indians in broad daylight.
They're very aggressive, very dangerous.
After 400 years of people shooting them, they tend to shy away from people.
When I was a kid, alligators didn't attack people.
You could read in a book, they don't attack people.
As soon as they were protected and their numbers started to come back and it started getting
more abundant, attacks started happening left and right.
So alligators do attack people.
Look at the history.
They did.
They just, when they came back, they started doing it again.
So then they started hunting again to slow down the attacks.
For a while there, they were attacking people left and right.
Now they got a nuisance control that if he's in the city, he's in your swimming pool, or
in your canal, in your backyard, whatever, they remove him.
Before he attacked somebody, kills your dog or your kid or you.
Just last month, somebody got the var by an alligator, arm-wrapped off people.
I saw this video of it.
Yeah.
There's all kinds of people getting attacked all the time.
I've been attacked a bunch of times by gators.
I spent more time in the early days with the alligators than even the sharks.
Really?
I encountered sharks that started hunting sharks at 25.
In my 40s, I started interacting with sharks.
But I was hand-catching alligators since high school, all the way until the later years.
Now what is your process if you're, you know, one weekend you feel the urge to go catch
an alligator in the wild in some lake in Florida?
How was the process in going about catching a gator by hand?
Well, back in the day, I would dive on him.
I had somebody hold the light on him.
I come running and dive on him.
At night?
At night.
Tackle him, hold on any wish way I could.
Suicide, attack, basically.
Now I levitate the alligator.
I back away from him, grab him, back away from him.
And when he tires a little bit, then I take him down.
So you only at night, though?
No, I can do it in a daytime.
I'm underwater now.
I can go get an alligator in the water anytime I want.
Do I do it nowadays?
Not really.
I haven't done it since TV shows.
I've avoided it.
I'm an artist, you know, already lost a finger to a rattlesnake.
I got bit by an alligator in the back.
The good Lord told me, enough is enough.
I was swimming down a canal, I got ambushed.
So I got bit by a rattlesnake, I got bit by an alligator and caught by a hog all within
a couple of years, towards the end of my time doing all this kind of stuff.
It's sometimes, OK, the Lord does something, keep you humble, slow down.
I got a family now, so I got more responsibilities.
So I focus more on my artwork.
Right.
Pull up one of those videos of many levitating a giant alligator.
Was that the canal monster?
I think they're my.
The canal monster is one of my biggest.
I have a tab pulled up for the canal monster, I believe.
I got two biggest gators.
One is in North Florida and this one is in South Florida.
OK.
Can you give us a little bit of volume?
And I'm going to see if I can locate him.
Yeah, he's already gone under.
So I'm going to turn.
OK, so you are just bottom.
This canal is full hydro on the bottom.
Yeah, I've seen him from the van.
I encounter him twice.
Carefully watching for any signs of the monster.
And then like a ghost, he begins to materialize.
He has left the bank and is facing directly
at us on the surface.
Yeah.
He is about to mount a full attack.
I like the voice over.
Continue to move closer.
He is arching his back as a threat.
Is he really arching his back?
Yeah.
This thing is literally swimming right towards you.
Right.
But if he's going to attack you, he's not
going to just be chilling on the surface like that, is he?
He's going under now.
Oh, now he's going under.
Oh, my god.
Ah.
You just grabbed him by his neck fat.
The skin of his neck.
It kicks me in the chest and barrels away.
That's like a what, 15 footer?
13 plus.
They haven't seen a 15 foot alligator, I think, in Florida.
Oh, really?
The record is 14 foot and a half around there.
He glides, so he stopped near the bank.
Not much bigger than that.
If you move it forward, I'm going to run him out of there,
but I'm still killing time.
But he goes into a hydrilla and I levitate him one more time
all the way to the surface.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, just move it a little bit.
So he's hiding in a little cove right now in the mangroves.
Yeah, no, he's going to go.
I can't get to him, so I'm going to try to get him out of there.
I can pick up an alligator by the scoots
just when he's so big I can't.
Oh, my god.
And he's not even doing anything.
Even though you're fucking with him, he's just laying there.
Yeah.
Alligators that big are great to work with and very deadly.
If he bites you, he will crush everything in your body.
That thing will kill a horse or a cow.
That will kill a whole, drag a whole cow in the water.
An alligator that big will.
Oh, he's trying to escape.
He's trying to run away.
Yeah, I'm going to run him out of there.
Oh, my god, that thing's a goliath.
I'll pick him up once or two or three times and no more
because then he'll attack you.
Still trying to escape on the very bottom.
Well, no, he goes into the hydrilla.
Now I got to go find him in the hydrilla.
He's like, man, please just leave me alone, bro.
I'm just trying to get nap.
How long can they hold their breath for?
The whole day, one that big forever.
How long?
Hours after hours.
Hours they can hold their breath?
A big one like that.
That's incredible.
Are there any other animals that can hold their breath
for that long?
Sperm whale.
Oh yeah, whales, obviously, yeah.
They go one hour on the bottom a mile deep to find squid.
Look at this, you just got them right out of the hydrilla.
See, when I put the head straight up,
he goes into tonic immobility just like a shark.
So when you put his head vertically like that,
he's like sort of in a trance?
Yeah, he gets it for a few seconds, he's out of it.
But see, once I hit the surface, he exploded.
Right.
But you can see the size of him as you spun around him.
Oh my God.
But I've done this so many times over the years.
I've had so much time with the alligators.
Now he's gone.
No, he's gone.
He's cruising.
Yeah, producer's running.
He's got the camera on him right now.
He's chasing him, looking at him.
He's talking about it, see.
Do you think that you're more...
But after my talk with him, no more, leave him, back off.
Right, right, right, he's pissed now.
Do you think what?
I'm saying, are humans more vulnerable
in the water with a gator, or like right next to the shore?
In the water probably,
because on shore you can jump back or do something,
you're more clumsy in the water.
The alligator is very agile in the water.
You know, he can catch fish under water, he's super fast.
But they can run extremely fast, can't they?
Short, no, just a short burst from here to here.
Just a short burst.
He's not gonna catch you.
If you see him coming down the road out here,
just run the other way, he's not gonna catch you.
Really?
Everyone, I've always heard that like if you run in zigzags,
like they can't make sharp turns.
Just run straight.
If you're behind a tree or something or a post,
you can behind him, he's gotta get around it,
so you can always get around it,
and he can't get around it, you know.
If he's here, he's gotta attack this way,
he's gotta back way, so you can get on this side.
So you're gonna be around the post all day long.
Oh, okay.
Like a telephone pole.
He can't get you.
No, if you use your brain, he can't bite you.
Right.
If you use your hand to telephone pole,
it goes this way, you go this way, you go this way.
Right, right, right, right.
He can't get you.
And what happened when you actually got bit by one?
I felt like somebody hit me the baseball bat across,
baseball bat across my back.
I was swimming down a canal,
and I was looking for a fish to hand catch.
I already levitated a couple of alligators that day,
and I got lazy.
Didn't look behind me.
I was supposed to look behind you,
in case one is sneaking up on you,
and sure enough, one came behind me and bit me on the back.
I felt like a bomb went off on my back.
He didn't get a good grip on me.
If you had got a hold of my arm, he would have ripped it off,
but he kind of like slipped away from my wetsuit,
pulled away with,
and he put 12 scratches on my back and a bruise here.
He didn't get a good grip on me,
and I was able to get away from him,
and I came out pretty good from that one.
I went after him, chased him off.
Oh, you charged him?
Yeah, confronted him.
Right after he did that?
Yeah, grabbed him by the neck and all that,
and went with him to the bottom, and then he took off.
What?
Well, in order to turn around over,
so he doesn't come after me again.
And then I was able to get on the airboat,
and I said, if I could get on the airboat,
you know, kick up on it on the side,
I might be okay when I pulled my wetsuit back.
They took a picture, okay, it's not that bad.
But I said, I gotta get in and put bleach on it,
and everything's all right.
Because they can infect you.
Yeah, but when I saw it, it wasn't that bad.
It came out very good out of it.
They just pour some liquor on it, and you were good?
Yeah, it came out very good from that one.
Good Lord.
Now, what about crocodiles?
What's the difference between crocodiles?
Have you ever fucked with a crocodile before?
Crocodiles are faster,
but they don't have the endurance of an alligator.
That's what I know about them.
The alligators, a guy from the fishing wall,
I told me a long time ago,
when they used a caption for tagging and all that,
the alligators fight twice as hard.
Really?
That's fascinating.
I know in Costa Rica, the crocs are a big problem.
Even when you surf near the river mouse,
like they chill out there on the beach.
It's the same crocs we have here.
I've never seen a croc here.
They're here, I've seen them.
Really?
Not on the beaches, though.
I've seen them underwater, and the Key Largo,
the mangroves, Flamingo, it's a good place to see them.
Okay.
Yeah, they're all over, it's a turkey point.
Keep the skein, coral gables.
There's a lot of them around coral gables
and all that Miami and the canals.
Right.
And this came Bay, Florida Bay,
all that area's got all the way in the Keys,
all the way to Big Pine,
all this Kragatals all through there.
They just can't handle it.
They swim over from Cuba, so it's invasive.
Listen, everything's invasive.
Everything is, yeah.
Yeah, either we brought them or they came on their own.
Coyotes came on their own, manatees came on their own,
and Kragatals came on their own.
They all came from Cuba.
Yeah.
And they're in, what a coincidence,
they're found in South Florida, Cuba, and Jamaica.
What does that tell you?
In Haiti.
Right.
American Crocs, and in Costa Rica,
and both sides of the Pacific.
So, but it's the same Kragatal, the Acutus,
American Kragatals.
It's a very big Kragatal by the way.
What is, are there a lot of deadly snakes in Florida?
Like rattlesnakes and stuff like that?
Where is the biggest population of man killer snakes?
In Florida.
Or in the U.S. in general?
Probably California's got a lot of rattlesnakes.
Really?
They got Southern Pacific rattlesnake,
I've played with those before.
That thing bites you, you're gonna be bleeding out your eyes,
nose, and ears, and everything that dissolves your brain
is horrific.
Now.
Those are in California?
Yeah, Southern Pacific rattlesnake.
Now in Florida, we had the biggest rattlesnake,
the Eastern Diamondback.
It's dangerous rattlesnake, as found here.
We have the cottonmouth, and we have the coral snake,
and we have the pygmy rattlesnake.
The smallest, the biggest, and then in North Florida,
you get a few copperheads and timber rattlesnakes,
which is a cane break in North Florida,
but in South Florida it's only four species.
Okay.
Two types of rattlesnakes, coral snake,
and cottonmouth and watermarkerson is the same animal.
Yeah, those things are swimming around in the lakes
and stuff.
Yeah, now if a cottonmouth bites you,
it'll rot your way.
A rattlesnake, if you get bit by Eastern Diamondback,
you don't go to hospital, you're gonna die.
Simple as that.
You get bit by any venomous snake,
just go to the hospital.
But what?
If you don't die, you may lose a hand and arm,
or who knows what?
So a cottonmouth, if you get bit by a cottonmouth,
there's no saving you?
Yeah, go to the hospital.
Go to the hospital, you could potentially be saved.
Yeah, yeah, it'll save you.
Survive it, you may get permanent damage
in your hand and leg.
Is there any snake that if it bites you,
there's no chance, even if you do go to the hospital?
If you have everything right there, ready to go,
you'll survive.
But if you get bit by a cobra in the jungles of India,
you don't have anything to save it, you're gonna die.
A coral snake, it'll kill you
unless you get any venom or get an respirator,
because it paralyzes your lungs.
Coral snake is like same venom as a cobra.
What kind of snake did you get bit by
when you lost your finger?
Western diamondback, which is like the second big
is rattlesnake.
And you were, where was that, Texas?
Texas.
What was going through your mind
when that rattlesnake bit you?
When that rattlesnake bit me, I said, I messed up, calm,
but it's like depressing, okay, the trip is over,
all the plans you had are over.
You're in big trouble.
Right.
If you look at the video, when it shows me getting bit,
real wild, yeah, it shows me getting bit.
I looked real calm, I'm holding the rattlesnake
in my hand, I told the producer, he got me,
and he goes, you're kidding, no.
I kind of like, I didn't want to tell him,
but I got to tell him, I was like embarrassed
to tell him that he got me, you know?
That's it right there.
That's the one?
Yeah.
And I was very tight into the snake,
the snake filled the entire frame,
and as he reaches in to pin its head.
And you got him to see it?
It was so lightning fast, it was so powerful
that everything just went crazy,
and I could see Manny did get control of it,
but my heart was racing, and I was really hoping
that he hadn't been bit, but I couldn't really tell.
He had no clue.
I saw Manny's hand reached in and grabbed the snake.
You can see it, see it.
Oh no, I missed it.
Well, you had the little camera in there.
Yeah.
Turn the volume up a little bit.
Really hoping that he hadn't been bit,
but I couldn't really tell.
So I saw Manny's hand reached in and grabbed the snake
by the head, that snake just started moving and twisting,
and it was such a powerful animal,
and I knew that Manny was in trouble,
I just didn't want to believe it.
Oh my God.
Okay, here's the snake and bring it up,
and instead I heard him say,
I got hit, and it just, my heart sank to my stomach.
When we came upon the snake,
look at that guy.
That's fuck Manny, he's famous.
He's got a great beard.
I mean, he never misses a click.
So as I watched him, his methods and his techniques,
I knew he was gonna be able to get it done.
So as he went for the grab,
the snake was so huge, he got the grab perfect.
I mean, the snake's head was this big,
and the grab was perfect,
but the snake was so strong.
That wasn't perfect, I need it to be closer.
In his hand, and actually sunk the fang
into one finger and into his hand.
See you right there.
Oh yeah.
This is gonna be a fight for his life
because the snake was just giant,
and the venom amount was just huge.
I mean, it had to pump everything it had into it.
And he calmly looks me in the eye and says,
he got me.
You're smiling.
And the chill ran down my spine.
It was like being kicked in the chest,
and I knew what Manny was in for.
He was in serious trouble.
And we are a long way from a hospital.
We're 50, 60 miles from the hospital.
You got that?
Yeah.
From that moment on, I knew it was critical that-
What is that sound?
When he got to a hospital, or he's gonna die.
I mean, this wasn't a little snake bite
that when you're dove hunting
or just out walking around, he gets you.
You know, cause that's just a quick strike,
and the amount of venom is just enough
to kill like a small rat or a rabbit.
This was a huge fang viper
that injected everything he had into Manny.
Give me the tongs, give me the snake tongs.
Let's go, we gotta move back.
Once we realize what had to happen,
our main concern, the entire crew was,
get Manny to the hospital as quickly as possible.
Every second counts.
To the guy, let's get going.
Come on, fuck, I need you to pick up all this.
So what was going on right here with your hand?
How did it feel?
So the pain is a unbearable pain.
Just like, you know, you wanna shoot yourself
with a pain that's so bad.
So you're, immediately after that,
you're rinsing your hand with water,
they're all getting you to the car,
and it's just unbearable pain in your hand.
Unbearable pain.
They got a hospital, and then the pain
lasted for months and months, just wouldn't go away.
So right away, what did you do?
Did you try to turn it around your arm,
or what did you do?
No, that's supposed to do anything.
Really?
I put a cold chicken on it,
but not even supposed to do that.
You're supposed to leave it alone.
No turning it.
You're supposed to leave it alone.
No turning it, no turning it will
rot you out even more.
Really?
Yeah.
So you just let it roll?
You just set the-
Let it roll until your body can fight it.
And how long was the car ride back to the hospital?
They did it pretty fast.
They were going 110 miles an hour.
They did, I was like 70 miles away,
but they got me there and like, I don't know, real quick.
Oh my God.
It was about 45 minutes or an hour
before they started getting the venom
and made me probably about an hour
of us sitting around.
Come on.
Could you imagine having to get to the emergency room?
I'm like, oh yeah, sure, take a number, wait in line.
Yeah, they were like real relaxed at the hospital guys.
I need about a 55 gallon drum of anti-venom like now.
I'm gonna be dead in like 15 minutes.
We need you to hurry up.
So they went in there to put anti-venom in you
and then what happened after that?
Then I stayed there for several days, four days.
Buck took me to his house.
I was in his house.
I couldn't get on an airplane and go home.
I was in so much pain.
So two weeks later, I went home
and my brother-in-law saw me cleaning my finger
and he saw a finger and he says,
you need to go to the hospital.
He took me to the hospital and then the doctor said,
you got to take that finger off.
It's rotting away.
How long after was it?
Probably about a month because it was rotting away.
So it was just all black where you got bit.
Yeah, yeah.
You can take them off if you want.
Yeah, my ear's hurting.
No, it's okay, we can take them off.
So you went to the hospital.
Yeah.
And what was that?
Well, what did they do?
The same day you went in, they amputated?
No, no, no.
Oh, when I went to amputate?
Yeah, they kept me overnight.
Come a little closer.
They kept me overnight and they amputated the finger.
And I told the doctor, we'll do it as quick as you can
so I can get over this, you know.
And I said, he goes, well, I can take the whole bone out,
make it look better.
No, I don't care, how is the hand more efficient?
I don't care what it looks like.
He goes, if the finger does survive,
it's gonna be like a hook.
You're gonna get in a traffic accident when you're driving.
So to make your hand more useful,
you got to take it off and that was it.
And how long did the pain last after they amputated it?
When I levitated at a large alligator,
I was already missing the finger.
Wow.
But was like the sharp pain there for a while
after they did the amputation?
After a month, after a month, I forgot how long it was.
It was just a never ending pain.
The hand was swollen forever.
It was swallowing morning and trying to stretch it.
The pain was unbearable.
It was just like, I couldn't pick up a cup of coffee
and it would fall out of my hand.
I didn't have a hand, it was so weak.
God Lord.
No more of that, you're retired.
You're officially retired from catching snakes
and alligators and sharks.
And you're just focusing on your art now.
Focusing my art, sticking with that.
That's a gift that God gave me was the art.
I was an artisans, I was a little boy.
I was always, in school, I had terrible grades
except for art class.
I was always the number one student in the art class.
So I was into art, wild animals.
That's what I like.
I wasn't into sports, you know,
basketball, baseball or anything like that.
I mean, it's great.
I like it.
Athletes are great and all that.
I'm happy for them, but it was never my thing.
And that into the wild, the sea and the forest
was always my thing.
Now, do you ever just like,
do you ever just like want to go out
and just catch a fish on a rod and reel like traditionally?
Or is that just too boring for you?
Yes.
Sometimes like I go out with my friends sometimes
gigging tilapia at night from the airboat
through on a trident at them.
And that's like, okay, we'll go out
and have a great time with the guys,
catch a bunch of tilapia, take them home,
fillet them and eat fresh fish.
That's more like my idea of hunting nowadays.
Right.
I don't want to get big fish anymore.
I want to get medium-sized fish,
just stuff to take home to eat.
My idea before it was the action for the video,
but I've done so much of it
that why am I going to do anymore?
I'm not going to top it, I've already done pretty much.
So I've done it.
Everybody's out there messing with the sharks
and everything right now,
but I was doing that 20 something years ago.
So I was ahead of the game and all that.
Now, I mean, God bless them all and they're all into it now,
but it's yeah, it's a dangerous thing.
And but everybody wants,
but there's so many people doing it.
It's kind of like you want to do what nobody else is doing.
At the time I was doing it, nobody was really into that kind of,
to the point that I was doing it.
What made you want to specifically design these tridents?
Like what is the tactical advantage of having a trident,
these three pronged for people that don't know what it is.
Once you grab that trident, you just made me for me and show
and pull it up so people can see it.
This is a trident.
This is one of my specialties of work that I do.
I make this out of 316 stainless.
These were done to catch fish to hunt.
The first trident I designed, big one was a wild boar.
Because when you throw it instead of one point,
you got three points coming out.
And that's like that giant one on the wall back there that you made me.
That's for catching a wild boar.
Wild boar, alligators.
Yeah, that one's probably got alligators before.
That one's heavy as shit.
I could barely hold that thing.
Well, use a weight momentum for a hunter.
I caught alligators by hand.
But when we took out, you know, I guided,
take out alligator hunters.
These guys, okay, they want to get an alligator, a trophy gator, whatever.
They can use a gun or they can use a trident on private land.
And a lot of them would use the trident.
They would mount the gator, pack the meat,
take the skin or meat home with them.
And then a lot of times they bought the trident.
Now, when you hit a gator with a trident like that or like this,
do you have to like aim for a specific part of their head?
No, if you hit them in the head, it'll bounce off.
Oh, you can't hit them in the head.
No, in the body.
So it'll hold them.
And then you got to cut the vertebrae here with a knife or an axe.
So when you hit them in the body with the trident,
you like in the back or something?
Yeah, it's got a rope on it and you hold them.
It's got a rope and they take off.
No, they don't take off with a trident.
They take off with a harpoon tip and then you got to follow them for a while.
When you hit them with a trident, they stay in the same place
and they just spin around and twist.
And they don't maneuver well.
It does it quicker.
Oh, okay.
The trident actually, the harpoon, they use doesn't actually kill them.
The trident does.
So after you hit them with the trident,
they twist around and they tire out and then you have to jump on them and you have to...
Well, bow them out and have the guy...
You know, this is a guy is hunting.
He wants to go on a primitive hunt.
He could use his rifle.
He can use a born arrow.
He can use his trident.
We left the option for him to do if we want to do a primitive hunt with a trident.
And, you know, a lot of times they do.
But I like medieval stuff.
I like history.
I like ancient weapons.
I mean, tridents were used for fishing.
That was original where there were four.
But the Roman gladiators decided to use them on each other.
So you see that in the arena, gladiators are fighting each other with these things.
It's just, you know, it's a horrible thing to do, but to attack another human being, you know,
having each other.
So for entertainment, going at it, you know.
Right.
I guess some people still like that kind of stuff.
They haven't changed.
There was a gladiator event and they were fighting each other.
I don't want to see it.
No.
I'm at that point in my life.
No, I'm not interested in seeing two people go at it with this.
Right.
You know, that's the ancient Roman mentality.
No.
So once I hit the gator with this, say hypothetically, if I'm going to go try this and I hit the
gator where that needs twisting around.
How do I go in there and like actually like end him and his life?
You pull them and use, usually I have an extra trident, extra harpoon sticking the other
one in.
It's a process and then pull them out.
And then I know it's just like three tools and a hatchet to hit them in the back of the
head.
I should also make, but I have a harpoon.
The ones who's there, you stick the harpoon to double secure them.
This will usually hold them.
Okay.
But in case he gets, if you hit them in the back, if you hit them on the side, the skin
closes in around this.
So it doesn't come out.
If you hit it in the back, it can come out the same hole because the skin in the back
doesn't contract.
It's like stays the same.
So I can pull out sometimes out of the middle of the back, but the trident, they hit the
side here.
Once you get off the scutes, the skin will wrap around this and it'll hold it.
He won't come out.
Oh, wow.
Sometimes you have to surgically move it out of there.
So that's the reason this is barbed is to, it's really to catch a fish.
So when you're catching an alligator, you're catching, you know, a large fish, you know,
it would probably, if you're in the shallows, you could probably throw it at a shark or
a bear.
Well, that might be too wide for a bear cuda.
Huh?
No, that would work for a fat bear cuda.
Yeah.
The pens, you know, anything will work on anything.
That other one, that little one over there, that'll work on a bear cuda very well.
But like, if I hit something like that with a shark, whatever, I'm afraid it would take
off and I would have to dive in after it and go get the fucking.
No, no, no, no, you put a, see this hole back here?
That's for a rope.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You put a strong rope.
And you just tie that to something.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And that's, yeah, you tie that to, it depends where you're going to get.
Yeah.
I mean, if you're in a flat, you can get a shark with this.
No problem.
Mm-hmm.
You hit him from the boat.
Yeah.
It'll, and you put a buoy on it.
Yeah.
He's not going to, you're going to get him, you know.
Right.
But if he gets off, you got to line in everything on it.
Mm-hmm.
So you pull, you try to back up, you know.
This is pretty strong, you know, I mean, I think this is hard.
Yeah.
It's industrial strength.
Yeah.
Industrial.
This is three, this one here is three quarters thick.
Solid stainless.
It's got a tail that goes to here.
This is crunched, smashed in here.
All this, I do, I dig this out by hand with a handheld grinder.
That's why I do all that.
And you, you make these to order for people, like when they hit you up and you know what
they want to try that.
Yeah.
They, I can get them, the fish and try them, which is more like when you got over there or
this one.
But I'm making, so they pick, they tell me what they want and we'll take care of it.
How long can you hold your breath?
I used to do five and a half minutes, five thirty-five to be exact.
Now I haven't done it in a long time, so I seriously doubt I'm going to hold my breath
that long.
How long do you go right now?
Not much longer.
I haven't trained for it, you know.
How do you train to hold your breath longer?
You train a little bit, but a lot of this technique is preparing.
When you're out of shape, you got to prepare better.
When you're in good shape, you can get there quicker.
You know, it's your deep, slow breathing, but that's what also gets you to pass out
on the water and die.
But like how would you, like before you go out in like a spearfishing competition, like
freediving competition in a tournament or something like that, how would you actually
prepare to do that, to hold your breath longer?
Well, you exercise, you train, you go do underwater laps, you do sitting still, you know, people
spotting you, you hold your breath as long as you can without moving.
You do your breathing exercises and everything.
And then I had a method I do when I was going to be underwater a long time, 40 breaths.
40 breaths first?
Deep, slow breaths.
Now what can happen?
You can black out on the water and die.
So it's a deadly game.
How do you black out?
You don't, you run the water, swim around, you relax, you find all of a sudden you don't
know what happened.
You're full of a rescue to you and you, what are you doing?
And you don't remember what happened.
Total blackout.
Does that, does the blackout happen only when they get to the point where you're like really
close to being out of breath?
No, the brain doesn't tell you how much oxygen you have, it only lets you know how much carbon
dioxide you have.
So you've been exhaling and breathing fast.
You could be out of oxygen.
You don't know.
So when you run out, the brain doesn't let you know, you think you got plenty of air and
you don't have any, you don't have any more oxygen left.
You fooled your brain.
And does that happen from just holding your breath too much and doing too much free diving?
From the deep breathing.
From the deep breathing.
From the breathing, fast breathing, hyperventilating before you go down.
You deep breathing, you hyperventilate to get rid of the carbon.
It's to be able to relax on the water, you got to get rid of your carbon dioxide.
That's what makes you, when you want to breathe, it's not that you're out of oxygen as you
have too much carbon dioxide in your blood.
So the trick is you fool the brain.
Then you can stay down as long as you want until you die.
Have you ever blacked out free diving?
Yes, I have.
And a swimming pool.
And a swimming pool?
Yeah, yeah.
The girl I was training for free diving pulled me up and I asked her, I asked her, what
are you doing?
You're, you're destroying my, my routine and she goes, no, you blacked out.
You're completely out.
So I will watch her.
She was watching over training a swimming pool as our team at the time is working with Mark
and Megan.
She was Mark's girlfriend.
She was freediving champion, Megan freediving, freediving champion for the US at that time.
She held a record for male and female at the time.
After you blacked out, what did you do?
Did you, did you just like take a break for a while or did you go right back in?
Did you grab a hand and start diving again?
No, next day I was diving again.
The only thing I was more cautious because I've come.
Make sure you have somebody watching you and spotting you.
If you're close to blackout and you don't black out, you'll get like a dizziness and
that's a samba.
When you black out, you won't get that.
You go all the way.
You'll never get that warning.
But I've had that.
There's no warning at all.
You just black out.
But if you came close and you survived, you're, whoa, you could feel that was a dizziness.
So that's, that's like, I did that too many times, diving by myself, going down a hundred
and something feet to shoot fish, freediving, waiting on the bottom to shoot a fish.
I would go 110 feet of water and lay on the bottom for like 40 seconds.
At 110 feet.
Yeah.
Just lay on the bottom down there.
I would start counting at the time myself when I was on the bottom and then I swam
back up.
So all by myself.
So it's no.
With weights on your weight belt?
Uh, if I had a speed on, I would use four pounds because I was very lean back then.
If I had a wetsuit on, depending on the thickness, I would put more weight depending on the thickness
of the wetsuit.
I could swim 400 feet on the water.
So 400.
So you could go.
300 feet.
You could dive down 200 feet.
Turn around and 200 feet back.
No, but swim both ways.
So when you go down, you don't kick.
It's only halfway.
You fall.
You only kick on the way up.
Right.
Because you're fighting against the weight, the weight belt.
Once you, you put a little bit of weight.
Once you break 30 feet, you should be able to free fall.
And then you just line yourself and the deeper you go, as your lungs compress, you speed
up down.
You keep clearing.
After a while, I can't get air into my ears and I got to stop.
I blew an eardrum doing that.
How deep, how deep were you when you blew an eardrum?
Man, I could have been 180 feet or 200 feet.
There was a marker 220.
I could see it.
I was trying to get to it.
And the watch only marked to 165.
After that, I quit marking.
Oh my God.
I was engaged.
So I kept going after that and it was, boom, sound like a firecracker going off in my
head.
You lose your equilibrium and shit when that happens, right?
You do.
But I got up so quick before I lost my equilibrium.
I aimed and shot for the surface a million miles a hour.
Can't you hurt yourself doing that?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, when you go home, you blow your nose, air comes out of your ear.
And I blew another one with a power head too.
So I've blown both of my, I've blown both of my eardrums.
Blew one with a power head?
Yeah.
It just blew up next to you?
I fired and it went off in the water and the concussion.
Wow.
Oh my gosh.
Pop the eardrum.
That's insane, man.
Well, man, thanks for doing this.
I really appreciate it.
This is a, I thank you for the trident and bringing the t-shirts and all the photos and
everything.
Yeah.
We'll do something in the future, man.
You know, get some other clients here.
Get a break.
I would love to get you here again, man.
I'm a huge fan of what you do in your artwork, especially where people that are like watching
and listening, where can they find some of your stuff or how can they contact you if
they want to get a trident or show your knives to hold your knife up?
Many pwig on Instagram.
Just contact you, message.
Yeah.
There's a picture of me holding a shark jaw.
I got my face in it.
Yup.
A bull shark jaw.
Just many pwig.
Just contact me and let me know.
I got t-shirts.
Hell yeah.
I got knives.
I got necklaces.
All kinds of goodies here.
Look at that.
Tiger shark teeth.
Great white.
That's a great white tooth right there?
Great white.
And also have fish hooks.
Oh, that's cool.
And a big two.
Wine-style fish hooks.
That's incredible, man.
And I make crosses, too, I got my cross.
And you carve custom shit into them, like people's names or kind of custom messaging
them.
Yeah.
They can custom their name on there.
That's beautiful.
But 316 is 316 stainless, right?
316 is also the most famous verse in the Bible.
You know, John 316.
That's cool.
Look it up.
Definitely.
Awesome, man.
Well, thanks again.
I very much appreciate it.
I'll link your Instagram below.
People to contact you.
And we'll get you back here to tell some more stories.
Definitely.
Cool.
Goodbye, world.
Have a great night.
Take care.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
