Some of the best podcasts on here with people that have never been on a podcast before.
Well, it's good to know.
So this could be a fun one.
All right.
I just got done watching.
So I wanted to like give myself a better understanding of what happened in the part
of the world that you're from, because I've never gone super deep on it.
I had that guy, Beck Lover, on here.
You saw his episode.
He's from Kosovo.
Albania.
He's from Albania.
Yeah.
But he was part of that whole Kosovo war, and he was explaining what life was like over
there.
I just watched a 30 for 30 on these two basketball players that are from there.
And one of them was from Croatia, and the other one was from another country over there,
but it was when it was Serbia, yeah, maybe it was Serbia, but it was when it was Yugoslavia.
And they won the Olympics together.
And I guess a guy walked out onto the court with this national Croatian flag, and he grabbed
the flag out of his hand.
It's like, no, we're Yugoslavia.
This is not, they're just like, they wanted to push out all like the dissenting sort of
nationalistic movement over there, and it drove this crazy void in these two people's
friendships.
Well, Yugoslavia was a strange country to begin with, because we always said that, so
the president of Yugoslavia was Tito.
And we always said that he always goes a little bit of here and a little bit of there.
So wherever he's good, he went with that.
So he was a capitalist and it was a communist.
So basically Yugoslavia was a country that parted sometimes with the Western system and
sometimes with the Russians.
So basically it was a conglomerate of Yugoslavia was like several countries.
There was Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia, Croatia, and then Kosovo was parted in there.
I'm not very familiar with this history because we always learned this Yugoslavia and the
Bulgarians and the Serbs.
So we're kind of like the same kind of people.
We use the same alphabet.
It's actually the Bulgarian alphabet or the Cyrillic alphabet.
That's the same alphabet that the Russians are using.
And then the other side, like I said, I'm not very familiar.
I think the Croatians, they use the Latin alphabet.
And that was one of the things when Yugoslavia fell apart, they started also like, what are
we going to teach the children here and there?
And I think that was more of a kind of like separating them and turning against each other
for political purposes.
That's what I think.
But again, like I'm not, it was a country that there was not much information about it because
it didn't belong to any other blocks actually, was kind of separated by itself.
With your background in your early life in that part of the world and seeing the shit
that you saw, what kind of perspective does that give you and all the shit that you see
happen in now with like Ukraine and Russia and that whole part of the world?
Well, on contrary of many people, maybe always complaining about their past life or anything
like this, I can say I grew up in a communist country, but it was a nice country.
I mean, I was a kid.
So what do you know about communism?
You don't know anything about it.
You'll find out later, but when I was growing up, I had a great family.
We had a house, actually it was an apartment.
You know, we lived there, my parents, my grandparents and my brother.
So six people in the same place.
It was a decent size place, was right in the downtown area.
It used to belong to my grandfather, the whole building.
And then when the communists came, they kind of like took parts of the building away and
they left only my uncle who was on the second floor and we were on the third floor at the
apartments in the other three apartments.
They sold off to some other people and I think they were communist people too.
Yeah, you told me you kind of you kind of surprised me the other day.
You're like, oh, yeah, I got my neighbor mowing my lawn back in Bulgaria.
I was like, what?
You guys have lawns there?
Well, that's in the mountain house.
That's not that's now the back then.
No, there was no lawns.
There was no lawn mowers.
There was no real estate agencies.
There was no car dealerships.
So you couldn't just buy a car.
So you saw the house there?
I we just got a house there.
Yes, my brother got a house.
He has a couple of houses there.
Yes, in the mountains in, you know, it's actually in a it's close to a lake.
It's an old house.
It's a beautiful house and I'm planning to retire there.
Actually, I want to build my own little place there too in the same yard because it's a huge yard.
And why do you want to retire there?
Just because of the life, you know, of the more of a normal life, more like connected with people,
like a spiritual life, none of this materialistic things.
And, you know, once you find out that materialistic things are not actually the things that make you happy,
then you don't need them anymore.
You have to always think that there's always a better and faster car out there.
So if you buy a car today, then tomorrow is another one and another one.
And for some reason, the way people are brought up here is, you know, they go getters.
They want to go get it.
And you have in your mind, I want to get this and I want to get a bigger truck and a bigger boat and very competitive.
Well, I don't know if it's competitive.
Maybe it's more of a consumers.
I mean, it's competitive as well, but also consumers, I think.
So you got to stop consuming because you really don't need those things.
I mean, if you think about it, you sit in your truck and you're driving the same speed going from here to Treasure Island,
for example, if you're sitting in a McLaren, you're going the same speed.
The difference is one is half a million dollars or a million dollars and the truck is like $50,000, but you're driving the same speed.
Now, maybe there is a feeling that when you're sitting in the McLaren, people are watching you and you're getting excited because they're watching you.
But is that the feeling you want to live for?
What other people think about you?
I don't know, not exciting for me.
Right.
Maybe you should give people listening a background of like your childhood and where you were, where you grew up and what it was like when you first came to America.
So basically, I was born in Sofia, Bulgaria, that's the capital.
And I lived in one place.
We didn't move.
I mean, it wasn't like in the US where you move from place to place, you know, you're born in one place and you live there, your grandparents live there, your parents live there.
That's the house, you know.
And I was there till fourth grade and in fourth grade, my dad got a job in East Germany and he was an interpreter from German to Bulgarian.
He was also a welding engineer.
What year was this?
This was 1970, about 1974.
Okay.
So 1974, he got a job in East Germany and the whole family, my mom, my dad and my brother, we moved there.
But we stayed the house that we lived in in Bulgaria, my grandparents kept on living there and staying there.
So we lived in Germany only one year.
But during that one year, I went to school there.
And when I was a little kid, my mom used to speak to me and my brother in German because she was a German major.
And she was just teaching us another language as babies.
So we spoke Bulgarian and she taught us German and you didn't remember anything, but obviously it was somewhere in your brain because when I went to school, we were fluent in like six months.
I mean, everything just came from somewhere.
So we were actually put in a school with German people, like you take a guide that doesn't speak any English and you put them in school here with a normal school.
And you adopt it and all you have to know is ask, learn how to ask, what is this?
How do you call this?
And the next time you use that.
And every time you, every day you learn a new word.
It's even now in English, I will sometimes every day learn a new word because there's so many words, you know, and every day you come up with a word, you hear it.
And then you could, now once you learn it, you start hearing it in more sentences and understanding it better.
So anyway, long story short.
So we went to Germany, came back.
I was in fifth grade when I came back, then I lived there from fifth to eighth grade and in ninth grade, we went back to Germany and I finished high school there.
So I finished high school.
It was 1983 when I finished high school and I had to go back to Bulgaria after high school to go to the Bulgarian military.
So going to the military was, you had to go.
It was obligatory two years and there was no excuses about it.
So you had to go to the military, you had to go.
And how old were you?
I was 19.
19?
Yeah.
So what was going on in that area of the world right like in that time?
Were you paying attention to like what was happening between countries and like?
No, not really.
I was a kid.
All we did is we played, you know, and we had a good time.
And I remember my grandfather, he was an engineer as well and he would listen to the voice of America at night and like very light because it was the neighbors cannot hear it because it was considered propaganda.
And it was a country that all the communist countries, people snitch on each other.
So they listen to you, say something and say, and then if they don't like you, they say, you know what?
I talked to Danny and Danny is like, he's talking against the president, this and that, you know?
And that'll come and visit you and start messing with you.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
So that happened.
Oh, it happens all the time.
Yeah.
So you couldn't tell anybody what you're planning if it was something that was not legal.
You know, for example, when I left Bulgaria, I couldn't tell my best friends that I was leaving.
So how old were you when you left?
I was 27.
And what inspired that?
Well, when I was a kid, we watched a lot of American movies.
So you guys were, was it like, was America sort of like this big, shiny city on the hill to you guys?
It wasn't like the shiny thing.
It was like California and we were watching, there was this movie Stunt.
I don't know if you remember it, an old, old movie.
And there was a bunch of stuntmen in Hollywood and there was like some kind of intrigue on the inside.
And they were driving these cool muscle cars and motorcycles.
It was kind of appealing.
It was like different world, you know, was the movies, was the, you know, the fantasy world.
Yeah.
So and that's what made you want to come here?
Well, you started like thinking like, Hey, what's going on over there?
What's going on over here?
But then when I went and lived in East Germany, we were able to watch West German TV.
So the East Germans could not block the over the air TV.
And of course, there's a lot of propaganda on TV, but you also see the truth.
Because when you go to a communist country to school, they tell you that in America is terrible.
So the kids, they have to sit in this.
They used to show us this movie where they sit in a conveyor belt.
It's like a white black and white movie.
And these little kids sit in a conveyor belt and they make sandwiches.
So the bread will come and you put the mustard and it slides over and they put the cheese.
And the next put put this puts the ham and the next one wraps it.
And they told us that you have to be like when you're 12 years old,
you have to go and work for your family to earn money and things like that.
Really?
Oh, yeah, it was all propaganda.
They didn't. And if you couldn't see it, how can you know?
Because you perceive the world from the things that you see.
So basically, everybody gets information that could be visual, could be from,
you know, like audio information or nature.
And then you start making a picture in your mind.
And then through all the things that you have learned, you start like dissecting
that picture and thinking how the world works.
And if they give you only this kind of information, the world works the way they
tell you, it works like Americans, for example, not to offend anybody,
but extremely brainwashed, extremely brainwashed.
So you are in East Germany, but you are getting some of the entertainment
or news from East Germany or West Germany, rather?
Right. So I lived in Brandenburg, but it's only maybe like 50, 60 miles
from Berlin, West Berlin and the West Germans on purpose, of course,
they were sending a strong signal.
So you can actually watch and there was only three channels.
There was no cable.
So there was like three East German channels and maybe three or four West German channels.
And on the West German channels, you can watch some American movies
and, you know, maybe some shows and something different.
You know, of course, there was news.
We didn't care about the news. We were kids.
What do we care about? Right.
But, you know, it was some entertaining stuff, some Westerns and some action movies.
And in the East German station or in Bulgarian TV, you watch Russian war movies
and you were over with them and you watch so many of those that you didn't want to watch anymore.
So so it made kind of like I started maybe that bug of going to a different country
and living in a different country and and seeing that there is a different world out there
that made me wanted me to ask for more.
And I decided to I cannot say I decided because I really don't decide anything.
Things actually fall in they fall in place in life.
You know, you decide something and go one direction and then things just expand
and do their own thing, you know.
So I figured they why not?
There's nothing to lose.
I mean, the plan was I go there.
If I don't like it, I come back.
So where's there to lose?
So you guys were just allowed to migrate to the United States.
And what year was this? Well, no, this was this was in 1990.
1990. So in 1989, in September, the Berlin Wall came down.
Right. So this was the crack into the communist bloc.
That was the time when Russia was falling apart.
Yeah. What was it?
15 percent of the Russian population took down or basically ended
ended the Soviet Union. It was 15 percent.
It could be, like I said, again, I wasn't I mean, we were very excited about it.
What actually happened is after Brezhnev died,
they had a bunch of other presidents like that, the Chernenko and Andropov
and then the alcoholic with the Yeltsin. Yes.
And the reason they had all these people is because when the Soviet Union
started falling apart, they kind of like there's a bunch of oligarchs
that started taking like advantage of this.
And one of these presidents will support one guy, the other one, the other guy.
So it become kind of like a banana republic, you know, during that time.
Right. And then it fell apart.
And then that's what happened when all these countries, Ukraine came out of it
and Latvia, Lithuania and all these all separated all these republics
that Russia had and they created the Russian Federation.
And then Putin came back, actually, Putin worked in East Germany.
Right. He was a he was an attorney, I believe.
And he worked for the East for the Russian Secret Service as an attorney.
And then when he went back from Germany to Russia, this I mean, don't quote me on this,
but this is what I read.
And we always get the information from somewhere.
He actually drove a taxi cab in Russia, in Moscow.
I never heard that. Yeah. Well, where'd you read that?
We'll double check it. So where did you read that?
I don't know. I read it somewhere. Can we check it?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, he can check it. Yeah.
So you were there when the Berlin Wall, when they when it came down.
So the Berlin Wall came down in 1989 in September.
And in November and November, then after that was Romania that fell apart.
And when Romania fell apart, the president of Romania was Nicolae Ceausescu
and he was a vicious dictator.
He actually when he when he was going down,
he hired his Secret Service people to go to homes
and they were murdering people left and right.
Just for asking, are you with us or against us?
And if you're against them, they took you off.
Vladimir Putin says he resorted to driving a taxi
after it falls over the Union. Who published this? The Guardian?
Yeah, it's true.
Oh, you're right. Look at them.
I knew that a long time ago, but I mean, I just wanted to verify it.
So, yeah, actually, he drove himself.
He was in, he just went to Ukraine and he drove himself around
in his SUV when he was visiting now.
Just last week, yeah, last week, he drove by himself.
There's photos of him driving himself.
Him driving the truck and there's a couple other guys in there.
That's why. Yeah, that's funny.
I wonder if that's because he just can't trust anybody to drive the car.
They're all in the same car. What is there to trust?
Right. I mean, if you hit a mine, you hit a mine, the whole car goes.
Still, people, yeah, people are willing to kill themselves
just to get rid of Putin.
There were some, I saw like some some videos of some attempts to kill him
of guys like crossing the meeting on the highway, like trying to hit his car.
I think there was one specific video I saw, but he wasn't in the car.
They actually hit one of Putin's cars,
but it was like one of his guards driving it and killed him.
I'm sure there is all kinds of attempts,
but actually, I believe he's he's a person that is actually loved in Russia.
So really, not only in Russia,
there is a lot of people that support support what the Russians are doing.
And yeah, so yeah, he's a driver.
He's driving. He's driving. There is.
Yeah, so.
So and then explain to me what it was like when you first came to the U.S.
Well, let's back it up a little bit because the basically the way the story started.
So so then at nine, 10, 11 and 12th grade, I was in Germany,
finish high school there. It was a great time, you know,
the ladies, the German ladies are great, you know, and they're they're
the philosophy is totally different.
It's not like here is kind of like really difficult with dating, I think,
because it's always they say what you have, what you do, what you work, where you live.
You know, it's like it matters, you know, it matters to meet the person first
and see if you like him and then if there is something and what does it matter?
What I do, I mean, you know, in Europe, it's kind of like actually,
especially in Italy, it's almost extremely offensive to ask somebody
that you don't know well what they do for a living.
It's none of your business.
What does it matter what you do for a living?
Are you going to be a different person if you don't do this for your living?
I mean, let's say you were begging groceries at Publix.
You're still there.
I mean, you're not going to be a different person.
Yeah, the girls won't want to be with somebody that can support them and support
a family. Yeah, but when when did that story come up that the girls
have to have somebody to support them?
I mean, I think they don't know since I was since I've been alive, I think.
Right. But didn't we say that girl, women and men are equal?
And so if we are equal, then they can support themselves.
Yeah. Well, I don't know, it's a cultural thing.
I guess definitely a cultural thing.
Yes, definitely a cultural and some materialistic thing, too.
So but so and then in 1983, I went to the military and Bulgarian military is
I mean, it's not it's not it's not fun.
Let's put it this way.
It's not that you go there and you go during the day and you do some kind of
exercises and then you go back to some kind of a nice barracks and you can go
out in the town. No, you go in there and you go in there for two years.
They are the first day you go in there.
They shave your head all the way down and they stick you in this bathroom
that is like a huge room and they they get a couple of hoses and start
hosing off everybody in there.
And then they give you this think uniform that you have and you wear this damn
thing for like two years and you never they don't let you go home.
They don't let you do anything.
So you stay there at this area, wherever you are.
And I was on the Romanian border.
I actually am a medic.
So I went to medical school in the military.
It was a 10 months of to become a medic, you know, military medic.
And then while I was training for a medic, I got poisoned by poison gas.
Well, we used to have these gas masks and they used to make us get up
in the morning at five a.m. and summer, winter, whatever.
And they blow the alarm and said gas attack.
And then you put the gas mask on and they make you run like three miles
with the gas mask. And it's really hard to breathe with a gas mask.
I mean, especially those old ones, we had they had the hose and the hose
was going in a little bag on the side and they had a little valve on the bottom.
And we used to pull the valves out so you can breathe easier.
Well, when they did this chemical attack, they stick you in this.
It's a room like this and they open the room, they kick you in there
and you have to put your gas mask on. So it's a drill, but they use real chemical.
It's a drill. They use they use gas.
Yeah, it's actually it's called Iprit, though they use.
It's a chlorine based gas.
Iprit. Iprit, huh? Yeah.
And we went in, I went in there and a lot of people will panic when they go in there
and they will knock on the door and there is a window and you can knock on the window.
And they think you're panicking, you know, well, I didn't have the valve in there
because I took it out and I didn't even know where it was and it was an alarm.
So it wasn't like you can prepare, you know, they blow the alarm, you get dressed
and you go and they tell you what's happening.
So I went in there and I started coughing, banging on the window
and nobody opened the door and I just passed out.
And they obviously they took me out and I woke up in a hospital
and I could not talk when I turned to the left.
So I had a paresis or a paralysis of a voice box on the left hand side only.
So it was from the from inhaling those gases.
And then they let me go home, you know, they they sent me
actually to the military hospital in Sofia, what is the capital where I'm from?
And I remember going home and hitchhiking home
and it was a rainy night and it was like really cold.
And and I'm coming out there with my uniform, you know,
and as a soldier, as soon as you go on the street, they will take you.
You know, they're they're nice people.
So I was thumbing in these big truck stops and I opened the door
and I look at the guy, but I cannot say anything.
Where are you going? And I turn around and I'm going to Sofia.
And it's like, were you talking with the nice to turn around and explain to him
that I cannot talk on the left hand side, you know.
So how long was it like that for about six months?
Yeah. And then I went to that hospital in the hospital.
They did all kinds of, you know, like tests and things like this.
And then they knew that they messed up, but you cannot sue the military in Bulgaria.
There is no such thing, you know.
So they kind of gave me a better position as a medic later on.
So I was in the Balkan, in the mountains, in a really nice area.
I was nice of them.
It was nice here.
And well, anything was an upgrade from where you came from, you know.
And over there, I had my little cabinet, you know,
where people come in like a little room where people come in,
I give them like pills and stuff like that.
You know, you come, you have a headache, here's an aspirin,
you come here and my leg is missing, here's an aspirin and things like that.
That's how we got people with their legs missing?
No, no. I'm just kidding.
And we used to play cards in there and goof around and all kinds of things, you know.
And after two years in this nonsense of wasting time,
I got out of the military and started working for a company, a long story short.
And then when I, when communism started in,
fell true in Bulgaria in November.
So in November 11, 1989, our communist president,
who was elected in 1956 and won every election until 1990 and 1989 with 96% and plus.
And I never voted for him.
I was a kid.
I never even knew that you should be voting or whatever you're doing.
So he was the only president that I ever had and they took him down
and things started to change.
So now suddenly you could board a plane and go to a different country.
And my mom worked for the airlines and she told me it was December.
So this happened in November that he came down in December.
I went to this Christmas party and I met these people.
They were actually somewhat part of our family, but you know, kind of distant.
And he said, Hey, we're going to Canada.
I'm like, Canada, when you're going, we're going soon.
What's going on?
He said, well, you know, you can fly to Canada and you can ask for political asylum
and then they will take you in.
And I, and then what?
And then you start learning the language, get a job and whatever you want to do, you know.
And I'm like, Oh, that sounds pretty interesting.
So I asked my mom, I said, Hey, do you know anything about this?
I do.
Well, she worked for the airlines and she wasn't very happy.
And I said, What do you mean you do it?
I want to go.
I want to do it.
And I, back then I had a girlfriend.
She lived in our house.
So you know, she lived with me and I asked her, do you want to go?
And she said, Yeah, I want to go.
And I remember was on Saturday.
Actually today is my anniversary.
Today is the 23rd.
I came in 1990, March 23rd.
I came to Canada.
I left Bulgaria and went to Canada on this same date like today.
Wow.
And so in order to go to Canada, I asked her, how, how are we going to do this?
And she said, Well, first of all, you have to pay for the ticket.
Now, how much is the ticket?
And the amount of the ticket for me and my girlfriend back then was 2,100 level.
LVA, that's our money.
So it's hard to explain it how much it is, but you can, I can explain it
in the way, let's say that, let's say the average salary here for,
what's the average salary for one person?
Is it 40 grand or something?
Something like that.
Yeah, probably 40.
So let's say it's like 40 grand.
Let's say it's 40 just for math, because back then it was less anyway.
So 40 grand was the average salary.
I was making probably two and a half grand a year from our money.
So it was a whole annual income for the two tickets.
It's kind of hard to come up with, it's hard to come up with 45 grand,
especially when you're like 25 years old.
I mean, unless you have a good career and whatever, but not in Bulgaria,
unless you're a communist, maybe, yes.
And so I came up with the money by, we rented out my girlfriend's apartment.
She was actually an orphan, had her own apartment and we rented it out.
Everybody had their own apartment.
Nobody rented in Bulgaria.
Everybody, you bought it from, you got a government loan and you paid it off
within 30 years and everybody had a house.
There was no real estate offices, I told you.
Then how do you purchase it?
Where do you purchase it from?
They just, you apply, I want to get an apartment and they have,
they look at you and see who you are and who your parents are.
And if you're a party member, you get it faster.
And if your parents are with them, it's kind of like a hierarchy now.
And then once you apply for that apartment, they look and see where you live right now.
I mean, if you have an apartment already, they're not going to sell you another one.
So, but when she got hers, you know, her parents passed.
So obviously it was her parents' apartment anyway.
So, and so I rented that apartment to a friend of mine for a whole year in advance.
So we got some money from there and this friend, she was a painter.
So they made actually a studio out of this apartment.
You know, they were painting in there and all that stuff.
And it was also hard to get anything to rent because nobody was renting.
So it was actually a renters market.
So I got good money for this apartment, rented out for 12 months in advance.
They paid me the money for the 12 months in advance.
And actually I let them stay forever there because I mean, I never came back.
Wow.
And so we got that money and bought the tickets and my mom told me,
you know, sometimes when you board the Bulgarian plane,
because the plane was going from Sofia to Belgrade, that's in Serbia,
and then from Belgrade to Paris and from Paris to Havana, Cuba.
So at the time I bought my ticket, you still could buy only a ticket going to another communist country.
But my mom knew that the plane lands in Newfoundland, Canada for a refuel landing,
where actually the Russians rent the airport to be able to refuel their planes.
Newfoundland, Canada, Gander.
Okay.
So the plane, she said, do not take the plane going on this date from Sofia to Belgrade.
We're going to take the train the night before and go to Belgrade.
And you're going to board the plane in Belgrade.
So I don't have to go to the Bulgarian customs because the Bulgarian customs were leery.
They knew about this scam, you know, that people are leaving the country
and they were giving you a hard time.
Sometimes they delayed the plane so much that you missed your connections.
Why do they care so much about people leaving?
I don't know. I mean, it's like, it's control.
I mean, you couldn't do anything.
You couldn't have a private enterprise.
There was no private enterprise.
Everything belonged to the state.
Except for you, you could rent your apartment, right?
Well, that was after it collapsed.
Right, okay.
Yeah, and that's not an enterprise, really.
I mean, you cannot have your own butcher shop or your own podcast or whatever, you know.
Well, maybe you can have a podcast, but back then there was no stuff like this.
I mean, you cannot open a business and start selling things or producing things.
There was no such thing.
So you got a job, you went to school and said you looked for a job and you got a job and that's it.
And everybody made the same amount of money, no matter what you did.
And you could only go to other communist countries.
And you could only travel to other communist countries.
So in other words, if you were a doctor or a garbage man and you started at the same age,
you made the same money.
Okay.
You got more money when you had your tenure.
Let's say you were 10 years in this business.
Then they gave you the next step up.
I think it started at 120, 160, 220 was after that.
250 was, I think, was the boss.
Okay.
My dad was a boss.
He was making 250 level per month.
What wasn't enough for anything, but we had no mortgage.
Right.
So basically all you bought is food and it was like 90% of the money went for food.
We didn't have a car ever.
And the only people that were like wealthy were people that were connected to the state.
There wasn't really no wealthy people.
There was no wealthy people.
No, there was no, there was, there was the government employees later on that through
corruption or whatever, you know, they maybe had a fancy car.
But as far as the fancy house and like here houses and yards and pools, no, not at all.
Okay.
Yeah, it didn't exist.
So you're going to take the train to Belgrade?
So I took with my girlfriend, her name is Katia or Kate or whatever.
And then we went to Belgrade and in Belgrade we went to the airport.
And at the airport, we stood in line and got on the plane.
And there was a bunch of young people on the plane my age.
And some of them, you know, they were talking, we were kind of like staying aside.
We don't want to tell anybody anything, you know.
And then the plane, when we boarded the plane, they came in and collected all our passports
after the plane took off.
And I don't know what they did with the passports.
We didn't know what they were going to do with it, but long story short, when we landed in Paris,
they put you in a special room, like a transit room, until you wait for the plane to go from Paris to Havana.
And so you could not ask for political asylum while you were in Paris.
Wait, it went from Paris to Havana?
Yeah.
Oh, I thought you said it went from Paris to Canada.
No, no, from Paris to Havana.
Oh, okay.
But it refuels, it stops in Newfoundland, Canada to refuel.
It's not a scheduled stop for you to get off.
So there's a pit stop in Canada on the way to Havana?
In Newfoundland, Canada, yes.
Okay.
Yes.
Got it.
So we boarded the plane in Paris.
That's when I understood why they took the passports.
Because you cannot leave, you don't have a passport.
The passports are with the pilots.
Got it.
So you go on your plane and you move on.
They didn't want any refugees over there.
So basically, this iron curtain that first the communists didn't let you travel,
turned to the iron curtains where the Westerners didn't let you come.
The communists said, you can go wherever you want to.
And then the Westerners said, we don't want no immigrants.
So they blocked you.
So you could not go anywhere.
So that's why you're going to Cuba.
So.
Communist.
Communist country.
You're allowed to, there is the Warsaw Pact countries, seven countries.
You know Czechoslovakia, Hungary, East Germany, Bulgaria, Romania and so on.
Poland as well.
And you could travel to those countries as much as you want to.
You can take the train, you can take the plane, whatever you want to.
Nobody cared.
But if you want to go to West Germany or Belgium or Holland, no way.
You have to go to the embassy, you have to apply.
And 99% of the time you were denied.
Wow.
Yeah.
So we're taking off approaching Cuba.
And now we start talking and the people on the plane,
half of them are Bulgarian, the other half are French tourists
from that we picked up in France.
And the Bulgarians start like, you know, you start like kind of looking at people
and you start thinking, hey, this is a cool guy.
This is these probably cool, you know.
And they all were kind of like escaping.
So they're all on the same wavelength, I guess.
So I started talking to one of the guys said, what's the plan?
He said, well, so usually they have a cop on the plane.
And he might prevent us from coming down or whatever.
I mean, they were just yacking, you know.
I don't think there was a cop on the plane.
What the hell is the cop going to do on the plane?
The plane is in Canada landing.
You have to leave it for security, for safety reasons.
You have to leave the plane while they refuel it.
So you cannot be on the plane.
So they were saying, like, if somebody tries to stop us,
would two jump him and then you guys go and, you know.
So we land over there.
And as soon as you land, I was told, you see this first cop that is down there.
And you tell him, I'm looking for a political asylum.
And this was like March 23rd.
And in Paris was 74 degrees.
I had a short-sleeve shirt.
We landed in Newfoundland.
You could not see, I mean, there was white and ice.
And there was the guy with the big moths doing the plane thingy.
And it was so freaking cold.
And you had to walk from the plane to the terminal.
They didn't have like a bus or anything like this.
And it wasn't a long walk.
But it was probably like, I would say 25 degrees.
And you were so excited, I mean, that you were not cold.
Short-sleeve shirt.
I just remember like somebody hit you with a steel frozen hammer right in the forehead.
I mean, you were so cold in here, but you were like, I got to get in there.
I got to get in there.
So we got in there and we asked the first cop.
And he just took us and took us to a separate room.
How many of you?
62.
62 of you.
From one plane.
Oh my gosh.
And nobody was saying anything until we were probably like half an hour away.
Nobody was saying, we're going to do this.
We're going to do that.
No trust at all.
Yeah.
You can never tell what's going on.
I mean, there's there, there immediately somebody is going to go and snitch for benefits.
Do you think this was something that was happening every day?
People escaping on these planes?
Well, actually, I know because my mom worked for the airlines.
It started, it started like sometimes in November, somebody figured it out.
And it was stopped sometimes in April.
Okay.
So I just got out.
So what happened once you talked to the cop and they took you guys away?
They, I mean, it was just like in the movie, man.
They came in, they were cops, you know, first like in the movies,
like their cops look like our cops.
And we said, we're looking for political asylum.
He said, this way.
And I was told not to bring any luggage with me.
So I had only a carry on.
And in the carry on, I was told, of course, you listen to people that don't know anything about
things, you know, that they said, you have to bring a suit
because you have to go to court and you have to look presentable.
So all I'm packing is I'm going to Cuba and all I'm packing is a toothbrush,
a nice suit and a wool overcoat going to Cuba, you know, kind of like sketchy, you know,
nobody looked in the luggage anyway, but and I don't have any luggage on the plane
because you don't get your luggage off.
It stays on the plane.
They don't go and get it for you, no matter what happens.
It's lost.
Right.
So I had this.
I had $300 in fake visa travelers checks.
They weren't fake.
I think they were stolen.
I mean, they were real checks, but they were with an Arabic signature on it.
And I had no idea that you have to sign.
You know, I signed on the top and you had to sign.
Have you ever seen a travelers check?
No.
Well, back in the day, if you wanted to take money from one country to another,
instead of going, there was no exchanges that you can do as easily as you can do them now.
So basically you bought from Visa or Master or American Express.
You bought this paper that looks like a bank note and it was travelers checks
and they were accepted anywhere in the world.
So I bought them with Bulgarian money, converted whatever they said is so much in U.S. dollars.
And it was 300.
And this was three $100 checks.
And on one side on the top, you sign as the buyer and then you sign.
They have to sign the same signature as the spender.
I didn't know that they were signed on both places already.
What kind of makes it stupid because if somebody finds them, they can spend them.
Right.
But that was the idea behind it.
And I had stashed another probably $200 that my brother gave me.
And my brother escaped before me.
He went to West Germany before me.
He caused a little trouble for me, but very little, you know, it was kind of like at the end.
And so anyway, so we're at the airport and just to back up a little bit on that.
So I traveled on Wednesday.
So on Monday, I was still that Monday prior to the Wednesday, I was in Bulgaria and I'm walking
down the street with my girl and I'm seeing one of my colleagues with his wife.
And I go, Hey, what's going on?
You know, and he's like, Oh, I see you're taking a couple of days vacation.
I said, Yeah, yeah, what are you up to?
He said, No, nothing, you know, and that was it.
So on Wednesday, I landed in Newfoundland, Canada.
And my colleague works for immigration.
For the Canadian immigration, because he speaks Spanish and Bulgarian.
So they pick him off the plane the same day that he comes off of the plane.
And he starts interpreting for them.
And he's questioning me.
Oh my God.
And I'm like, I'm sitting and looking at him and he's like,
So why didn't you tell me that you're coming here?
And I said, Well, why didn't you tell me that you're coming here?
I said, Well, I couldn't tell you.
I said, Well, I couldn't tell you either.
So he goes like, So when they ask you if you smoke, you're smoking and your girlfriend is
smoking too.
I'm like, Why?
Just shut up.
Just I'm asked, I know the game here.
All right.
So, you know, they, they take you in this room and then they give you the,
you know, search if you have anything on it and things like that.
Some people have brought some food like they will bring like a loaf of bread and a can of
meat or like some kind of a like, uh, lunch meat or whatever.
They took everything away and asking, Why did you bring this with you?
Well, we were worried if we could have nothing to eat.
It's like, I mean, what loaf of bread, what are you going to do with that?
But they didn't know.
So people didn't know what to bring with them.
I mean, I, I like I said, I brought a suit.
So that suit was at no purpose at all at the end.
You know, it got thrown out probably.
Right.
And, um, so, um, we go in there and they ask, Do you smoke?
I said, Yeah.
Did she smoke?
Yeah.
It's all right.
So here's $60 for cigarettes.
Here's $60 for cigarettes.
I'm like, Ah, okay.
Wow.
Yeah.
The Canadians were very nice.
So, and now they processed us as much as they can.
You know, they took your passport.
So they kept possession of your passport.
They didn't check it and they just kept possession of it.
Gave you some kind of a written note paperwork and told you, um, just wait outside.
I mean, there's going to be a cab and you, you, you, you and you, like we were five of us.
For five, four, yeah, five of us said you all go with cab number, blah, blah.
All right.
We go outside and just like in the movies, there comes a yellow cab.
I've never seen a yellow, a real yellow cab in my life.
You know, it's a Chevy Capri.
Like just in the movies, you know, and you're like, am I dreaming or you're super excited,
super afraid and totally confused emotions all over the place.
So we sit in and I remember four people sitting on the backseat.
This is how big that car was.
You know, for us that big, because if you go to Bulgaria,
now the most of the cars that look like a limo, they're the size of a Toyota Corolla.
Nobody drives in Europe.
Big cars like here, you know, this huge cars.
I mean, there is some people do, but 99% do not.
So they take us with this cab and they take us to a motel
and that motel was called the Fox Moth Motel.
And they had a hanging airplane in the lobby, like one of those biplanes,
like a really cool plane.
And it was a brand new motel.
Nobody was there ever and they just opened it for us.
So we go in there.
I get a room with a king size waterbed.
Never seen a waterbed in my life, only in the movies.
Just the movie continues.
And wrestling on TV.
You ever watched wrestling on TV?
Like WWF?
Yes, I've heard of it.
I mean, we are in heaven, you know.
We're laying in the bed, you know, like this is so cool watching the thing.
Phone rings.
I am sorry to bother you this late, but we usually close our restaurant at night, 30 at night.
But the chef stayed for you guys and made some food.
If you want to come down and have something to eat before you go to bed,
we'll go downstairs.
Hamburgers and Coca-Cola.
Coke and hamburgers.
The movie goes on.
How good of an English speaker were you?
Probably half of what I'm now.
So did you order Coke and hamburgers?
No, that was the only thing that you can eat.
Oh, really?
Yeah, they had made and fries.
They had Coke, fries and hamburgers.
That was it.
Hey, I'm always complaining.
It was delicious.
So we ate and the next day, you know, we waited and waited and spent almost like a month in Gander.
And then they moved us to a different place.
It was a resort, it was a fly fishing resort.
And that was in the mountains in Newfoundland.
Beautiful area.
The weather was cold, but the kids, as soon as it gets like the sun comes out and it hits like 45,
50 degrees, kids are with shorts and tank tops riding their skateboards.
I mean, they're excited.
You know, it's kids.
You see kids here swimming too.
And over there, it doesn't get much warmer.
So your body actually adjusts to that.
So it's not a big deal.
But for us, it was cold.
You know, I mean, it's kind of like cold.
So we were bored all day.
So we were in this resort and they had like freaking moose in the resort.
Like, have you ever seen a moose in real life?
Yeah, but not that close.
So it's probably like 50 yards away from it.
We had one that was right in front of the door.
And we opened the door and you look up and this thing is like 13, 14 feet high.
This is like huge animal, you know.
And we were scared shitless.
So we called the guy at the reception and go like, hey, there is a moose here.
What should we do?
He said, just wait inside and then look out in a little bit.
And if he's gone, then come.
And that was exactly what happened.
They come here all the time.
It was some kind of an Irish guy running this place.
And he liked to drink and all the Bulgarians like to drink.
So it turned out to a party place.
So we were partying like for probably like a month or so.
And a month.
But we waited for paperwork.
Sirist and Limbo waiting for paperwork to be done.
Waiting for paperwork, yes.
Paperwork was done and they said, now you can move around.
And I had, my best friend had moved to Montreal.
Long story short, he went through the China route.
So he went to school in China for porcelain.
He was his artist.
And he married his English teacher who was from Canada.
And then they came together as, I mean, he escaped from true China.
Wow.
And he was living in Montreal and I was excited that I have a friend in Montreal
and I'm going to go check him out and we're going to have a great time.
And he's going to show me the ropes and life is going to move on, you know.
So I had enough money to buy plane tickets for me and my wife to fly to Montreal.
But then I befriended these people that actually we rode in the cab together.
And we also stayed in the same chalet.
They put you in these chalets and there is like five people or six people that sleep in there.
Separate rooms, very luxurious, very nice, you know.
And they were like, hey, can you help out?
Can we all go on the train and the bus and you help us out?
And I'll give you the money back.
And I'm like, all right, whatever.
So I did it and that caused us to go on a 52 hour bus trip
from Canada, Newfoundland to Montreal.
And you go through the whole Newfoundland and it was snowing.
And this guy was going like 80 miles an hour in the middle of the night.
Then you go to...
Can you pull up a map of Newfoundland?
Then you go, yeah.
Can I have something to drink?
Yeah, yeah.
Some water.
Awesome, you grab him.
We got some liquid death.
Is it water?
I think it's sparkling.
I think we're out of water.
Yeah, whatever it is, as long as it's not alcohol.
Yeah, it's cool.
There you go.
And thanks man.
Liquid death.
Yeah, we're all out of regular water.
We just drink sparkling now.
Oh, this is good.
It's good, right?
Yeah.
So there is Newfoundland, let's see.
Okay, way up there, holy cow.
Just the smaller island, the bigger one, this laboratory.
So just can you zoom in on the small island?
No, it's the small island.
We were on the small...
There you go.
So St. John is the capital.
We stayed at St. John.
Okay.
And we actually...
Okay, we started from St. John and we're to Porto Basque.
See where Porto Basque is on the bottom, south to the left.
Go left, left, right, left, left, left.
That's Porto Basque.
Okay.
So the bus went from St. John to Porto Basque.
And then from Porto Basque we took the Queen Mary boat that actually...
We crossed the canal.
Right there, that little straight, right there?
Yeah, that's not a little straight.
It's pretty big though.
Yeah, it's pretty big.
And then we ended up in Halifax.
How long was that boat ride?
I think it was six hours.
The whole trip was 52 hours.
Okay.
So we ended up actually in Truro.
See where Truro is under Prince Edward Island, where it says TRURO,
like underneath where it says Prince Edward Island?
Yes.
Right there.
This is where we landed.
Okay, right north of Nova Scotia.
Right, exactly.
And then from there we took a train going to Montreal.
And that took probably like $27, $28 maybe more
to Montreal.
So see where Montreal is, right?
So you're just visiting a friend in Montreal?
Well, it was my first destination because I knew somebody.
It was somebody that I grew up with.
I trusted him 100%.
It's really great if you have somebody to just give you a little bit of a hint
here and there so you can go the wrong way real fast.
Were you pretty paranoid during that whole time?
No, I was really excited.
I mean, it was actually, it was like a huge adventure.
You know, very like a...
And then you know what things, if you worry too much,
those things that you worry about, this is what happens.
But if you're just excited, all exciting things happen, you know?
So they...
I remember going from Newfoundland where it was probably like in the 50s,
the warmest than at night in the 20s.
And we took all this huge ride going over there.
And in Montreal was 78 degrees.
It was hot as hell.
And I had this jacket on like a down jacket.
And we were, you know, the single penny left.
Could even afford to take the metro to go to the stop where I wanted to go.
So we had to walk and to go to the YMCA.
So they had hooked us up to stay at the YMCA in downtown Montreal.
And we had to present ourselves.
So we got over there and I called my friend and then we met up.
And the story was a little bit different.
So his wife was a total bitch.
And she was so upset at me because when I landed in Gander for the first time,
I called him from Gander, collect.
And he accepted the call in because this call was like $9 or something like this.
She was so upset that I called collect that I was, that was done.
I didn't exist anymore.
I was a user.
I was going to use him.
I was going to take his money.
He called you collect.
I didn't know what the big deal was, but it didn't work out.
He got divorced anyway, but anyway.
And well, and then I found out that he's pretty much of a kept man, you know.
So, I mean, he did give us a few pointers here and there.
We did hang out a little bit together, but it wasn't like the old times, you know,
like every day and all that stuff.
We did hang out quite a lot and had some mutual friends and things were starting to go.
So, once we got there, they gave us welfare.
So, I got $460 bucks, so did my girlfriend then.
And we rented a place for $300.
You could rent back there a place for $300.
It was in the student area in, what do you call it?
It's in Montreal.
It's, anyway, it will come up.
It's a decent area.
It's a student area.
It's not like, you know, there's a lot of young people.
There's a lot of cool things happening.
It's not like a high crime or anything like this.
And I got up and the next day, you know, we met some other people there.
There was some guy from Czechoslovakia there.
We became friends.
He was married with his wife, you know, became friends.
And we started talking and he said, hey, we got to go.
It's Wednesday.
We got to go.
I said, where are we going?
He said, Wednesday is garbage night.
They put, you know, like big appliances and sofas.
And this place was not furnished, you know.
So we go, we go and you go in the back alleys and there is a sofa.
Looked at it, looked pretty decent, picked it up, put it upstairs.
Wow.
Then we found a TV, like one of those old console TVs.
Yeah.
And we, we wanted, I mean, I lived on the third floor and there was no elevator.
And this thing was as half as the size of this desk, you know, with a console and all that stuff.
Not that it was like an old wooden thing, you know, with the columns on the side
and a small screen in the middle.
So there was this Canadian guy, Mike, that lived on the first floor
and he saw us struggling with this TV on the way when we found the TV.
We found the little baby carriage and we put it in the baby carriage.
And by the time we came to the house, the baby carriage broke apart from the way to the TV.
And he goes like, hey, let me plug it in.
I'll tell you if it works.
So you don't have to drag it all the way up.
So we plugged it and then he looks at it and it was all getting green.
And he kicked it a couple of times and it warmed up and it came on.
It was a color TV.
I mean, it was like, you had to wait five minutes to warm up and start like getting color, but it worked.
So we got furnished from the garbage.
And then, you know, about the utensils for the kitchen and whatever it is,
garage sales and got a household going on.
And then I wanted to get a job even though I was making money.
So you're just kind of drifting.
You really didn't have any kind of plan.
Yeah, I drifted.
Yes.
I waited to see what life is going to show me.
Okay.
But you still had your girlfriend back in...
She was with me.
Oh, she was with you.
She was with me.
Okay.
And so, you know, I said, I'm going to go and look for a job.
You should do the same thing.
And she said, okay.
So I go down the street.
I mean, it's a recent drug was that the main drag.
There was a strip joint.
There was a grocery store, a couple of car washes.
And I'm going like, well, I'm going to ask here.
I'm going to ask there.
And I went to the car wash and I said, hey, I want to get a job.
He said, all right, it was a guy from Panama, Carlos.
He goes like, yeah, I'll hire you.
I said, how much are you paying?
It's like $6 an hour.
That was good back then.
And then we shared the tips at the end of the night.
Wow, that's pretty dope.
And it's only like right to the house.
So I had to do is I actually had a bicycle.
I go with the bicycle.
I just walk over there, you know.
So I go over there and it was a tough job.
But it was car washes that, you know, you wash by hand.
We washed fancy cars.
So stations, you know, when you're new, you do the wheels,
the white walls and the wheels, the shittiest job, you know,
you just grab all that stuff and there is a guy spraying
and the other guy doing this.
And every time they wanted to put armor roll,
armor roll was a big thing back then.
And Carlos will announce it.
Armor roll.
We're like, okay.
And then he goes one time and says, armor roll inside.
Means they're going to put armor roll on the dash and all that stuff.
And I'm like opening the door and he looks at me.
He's like pulls me on the side.
He says, you never opened the customer's door.
I said, well, I was going to go to the armor roll.
He said, you don't do armor roll.
Armor roll inside is only me.
I'm the only one that does armor roll inside.
All right.
Well, turns out that was a code for buying cocaine.
So they, his fancy car comes in and armor roll inside.
He goes does the armor roll.
Obviously the money somewhere puts the stuff somewhere done.
Wow.
What a clever way to do it.
Absolutely.
And one of the guys was a coke dealer.
Well, that's what was all about Carlos was the one doing it.
Wasn't the owner.
The only Italian.
Okay.
So I think they bust him at the end of the whole thing fell apart,
but it was a big, big, I mean, there was some people with some fancy cars.
I'm telling you, some Ferrari.
What year was it now again?
This was 1990, 1990.
Okay.
So, you know, some real fancy cars and this and that.
And there was a black guy that I was working with with big dredge logs.
And he was singing that song.
There is a song from Lisa Steinsfield been around,
been around the world with my baby sessions.
Do you remember that?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
He was singing it so good.
And you were seeing it all day long.
So you couldn't get this freaking song out of your head, you know,
but you'll spray and sing.
I guess they were all high.
You know, I didn't know anything going on back then.
And, you know, I didn't even know what high means
because we never had drugs in Bulgaria ever, you know, ever.
And I was a street smart kid and I left there at 27.
I didn't know what drugs are because there was no drugs.
Nobody had drugs.
Nobody wanted drugs.
But we drank.
How could you want something you didn't know existed?
All right.
And we didn't know anything about racism either.
You guys had alcohol, you said?
We had alcohol.
You can buy alcohol anywhere you want to.
Nobody prohibited you.
I mean, if you could find it, if you were all tall enough
to go in front of a bar, you could, I mean,
not that we have bars, but because they don't have bars
over there like here.
You don't go to the bar.
So everybody there looked the same?
And what do you mean by that?
You said there's no racism.
So there's no.
There was, well, first, yeah, we're all Caucasian.
I mean, we have some gypsies.
Right.
And okay, maybe some people don't like the gypsies or so.
But I remember when I went in school, we had a black guy,
one black guy, his name was Yom.
And he was from Angola.
He was the son of the king of Angola.
Wow.
So the son of the king of Angola had seven children,
and they took each child because when they took Angola over
from the communists, took Angola over.
Pull up Angola, Austin.
I'm getting a geography lesson.
It's in Africa.
So they put all these kids in every,
in the seven communist countries, they separated them in school.
Interesting.
And this guy, Yom, he was a tall guy.
Okay.
Oh yeah, right north on Namibia.
Yep.
Namibia is a great place.
I've been to South Africa.
I want to go to Namibia.
My friends would have been there.
Yeah, it's great.
It's a lot of Germans in Namibia.
It's a really good surf there too.
That's what I hear too.
My brother went to Marseille kite surfing.
He said it was amazing.
In Namibia?
No, in Marseille.
Oh, Marseille.
Oh, oh, oh, yeah.
But anyway, so, and so this guy, he was a tall guy,
and we had a basketball team, and he was in the basketball team.
He was the best fucking guy ever, you know?
So everybody, he was a fucking celebrity, you know?
He was a celebrity.
Oh yeah, it's like in the school, you know?
We're in high school, you know?
Super athlete, alien from another world.
Yeah, he had a fat ass, but he was tall, you know?
So he couldn't do anything about it.
We were kids, you know?
What's he gonna do?
He's like, he just dunks it or whatever, you know?
Right, right.
And so that's what I'm saying.
We never had racism or anything.
And then I, because you don't know anything about it.
He was just a different looking guy, and he was cool,
and we respected him, and you respected us.
And that's why I think life was good in Bulgaria,
because people were respectful.
You know, if you're respectful and well educated,
and you know how to behave, you know,
without bothering other people and be polite to the elderly,
that actually communism did not do anything to it.
The people were still friendly, and nobody was stealing,
nobody was robbing you.
There was no, there was no murders,
there was no crime at all, zero crime.
Seriously, zero crime.
And everybody had to work.
You could not not work.
They will stop you on the street,
and you had a passport with you.
And in the passport, you had a stamp
that you were working in a company.
Wow.
And if you didn't have a stamp, they took in.
Took you in where?
They took in and questioned you,
and then they made you get a job and all that stuff.
And what happens if you refuse to get a job?
I never, I always had a job.
You never heard of anybody who never had a job,
like something that would happen to them?
I'm sure you can hide if you want to or whatever,
and get in trouble, but I mean, you know.
They put you in jail if you could be.
Somebody who was like a dissenter?
Absolutely, yeah.
They could do whatever they wanted with you.
There was no rights.
Right.
I mean, you didn't know anything about it because,
I mean, if they want to come and arrest you,
they'll take you.
Right.
So they took my grandfather's apartment,
just took it away from him, because he had too many apartments.
They didn't buy it off of him.
They just said they confiscated it.
Yeah, they said you're a capitalist,
and they took it away from him.
Yeah.
But when you're a kid, you don't know that.
Right.
You know, all your worries are,
hey, well, I'm going to eat, and I'm never worried about that.
But you're excited.
You know, you go to school, you have something to eat,
you have something to wear, you have some cool friends.
So, but you care what happens.
So anyway, back to Canada.
In Canada, Montreal.
You're guys slinging coke out of the car wash?
Yes, that was the first job that I got.
I remember every time you came home from that job,
your clothes smelled so bad, because they could, they get wet.
I had this, you know, crappy suit, like no suit,
but like a baggy pants, you know, that you wear,
and they get wet all the time.
You couldn't wash them all the time,
and the shoes, they were dry, and they smelled terrible, you know.
But you put the stuff on, and you go and work.
And you earn a little bit extra money.
And you know, that extra money was great,
because, I mean, we didn't have anything.
And if you're getting like 800 from the government,
and you bring another 400, 500 in, it's a lot of money, you know.
Life was cheap back then.
You could buy a dozen eggs for like 88 cents.
Wow.
So, so I asked my wife, I mean, my girlfriend,
she was still my girlfriend, and I said,
so did you find a job?
Yeah, I went down the street, I asked here, I asked there.
They don't have anything.
I'm like, maybe better luck tomorrow.
I said, I found a job.
So, I worked a few more, you know, months at Carls.
And this other guy came, and he was from Iran,
and he was driving a big Mercedes.
And we started talking, you know, while we were washing the car.
And he said, you want to work for me?
I said, do what?
He said, I'm going to open a car wash over there.
I want you to come and tell me, you know,
the logistics of the car wash.
You've been here for a while.
What do they do?
And I'm like, well, how much are you paying?
He said, I'll pay you $6.
And I said, well, I get $6 here.
Hey, I'll give you some.
I'll take care of you.
I'm like, okay.
So, I quit there, and when I started working for this guy.
So, and we actually built the car wash.
It was all he had, like, was a warehouse.
And he made it like a drive through
and put a couple of sprayers in there.
And then I said, you know what?
I'm going to make a sign for you.
When I was a kid, we used to make t-shirts,
like the shirt that you have.
So, because you couldn't buy shirts
with any kind of writing on it.
Right.
So, we used to, like, cut them out of cardboard,
make a stencil.
A stencil.
Like a stencil, yes.
And then put it on the shirt.
Now, with a little sponge and textile,
we couldn't have spray paint.
Oh, shit.
And you texted it out.
We used to make the shirts the NHL All-Star.
So, the red shoulders with the white star.
And then you put the flag in the front
and then put a name on the back.
And my brother and I, we used to make shirts like this,
just for us, not for selling it.
Oh, wow.
Or write down, like, band names,
like sticks in Kansas and stuff like this.
And make shirts like this.
So, we were, I mean, you know,
we were making our own shirts.
So, you helped this Iranian dude
build his own car wash, built business.
So, the same way we were making the shirts,
I cut out the letters and then it was spray paint.
And I sprayed it on the building.
And the whole building was a huge building.
The letters were as big as a person.
Wow.
La Vea Men meant, like, wash by hand.
And it was, like, that fluorescent green.
Turned out really good.
Business started going.
So, we did start a business here.
And they closed them after that for some reasons.
But, I mean, this was just temporary jobs.
Then I cut the grass and this and that.
But my girlfriend never found a job.
She always said, no job, no job, no job.
And all she did, something on the balcony
when the summer was around.
Unfortunately, she didn't cook.
She didn't wash.
She didn't do shit, basically.
But when I lived in Bulgaria, I made enough money.
And that wasn't something that she needed to do, you know.
So, we go out or we lived at the house.
My mom would cook, you know, things like that.
So, anyway, and things started to go, like, south with her
between me and her.
And we got very, also very, like,
you know, constantly, like, bombarded by this unknown
what's going to happen because they started deporting
some Bulgarians.
You know, Bulgaria turned suddenly democratic on paper.
You know, we got a new president.
And now they said they're not going to prosecute you
if you go back.
You're not going to get in trouble.
It's a friendly government.
So, that caused other countries to start deporting Bulgarians back.
That caused, like, Canada.
I don't know about other countries because I cannot speak for that.
But Canada started, like, sending some people back.
And I was fine.
You can go back.
Yeah, they said, hey, it's fine.
Now you have a democratic president, so you can go back.
And they were looking for me and her.
And I was not going to go back.
So, that was in 1992.
Okay.
And in the meantime, in 1990, my mom passed away.
So, I got a phone call from my brother and then I couldn't even
go back for the funeral.
I couldn't go.
But my mom was happy because she wanted me to go somewhere
and I did go somewhere.
So, where my dad didn't want me to go anywhere.
And he was upset.
But then two years later, he was very happy that they went somewhere
because Bulgaria went south, you know, got all messed up.
Be it hyperinflation and all kinds of shit.
Right.
So, you know, now, I lost my train of thought.
They were looking for you.
Oh, yeah, they were looking for me.
And they had my passport.
I never received my passport.
Okay.
And I went, you know, now I've been like almost two years in Montreal.
I know a bunch of people and, you know, a bunch of people that do some,
you know, like, shady people, good people, bad people, any kind of people.
I know, you know, I'm pretty much friends with everybody.
Not much enemies that I try to make or avoid, you know.
No matter if you're, you know, a bad guy or a good guy,
I somehow can find a way to talk to you and just, you know, be real with you.
So I'm not going to criticize you.
I'm not going to tell you what to do.
Just a conversation.
So I asked, hey, listen.
So these guys are looking for me and I have to go and listen to this date
and what's going to happen.
He said, don't go.
I'm like, why?
So and so went over there.
They put the handcuffs on him, put him on the plane and shipped him back.
I'm like, okay, good to know.
So what do I do?
He said, we have a guy that can smuggle you over to the United States.
I'm like, sure, how much is it?
I think we can do it for 400 bucks.
I'm like, good.
So I'm like, where's the guy?
That's an Indian guy.
I'm like, okay.
How did you know the U.S. wasn't doing the same thing though?
I didn't.
You just thought that it was the only country you can cross.
There was no other countries.
It's going to go south from there, baby, Mexico, the next one.
Right.
So and I'm like, all right.
So where do I find him?
So you go over there and it was the kind of walkie reservation.
So we go over there with my, in the meantime, I made money.
I bought a car.
I had my first $400 Renault alliance.
Do you even know what a Renault alliance is?
How do you spell it?
Pull up a 1983 Renault alliance like alliance.
Like alliance.
Alliance.
What's the first word?
Renault.
The French cars.
R-E-N-A-U-L-T.
Oh, Renault.
Okay, gotcha.
Renault, yeah.
1983 Renault alliance.
Piece of shit.
But the car.
400 bucks.
400 bucks, yeah.
So my first car ever, you know, how can you forget it?
That's the car that I crossed.
Oh, hell yeah.
Yeah, there you go.
That's actually.
What color was it?
That's a newer one.
Try a 1980.
This looks way too new.
I mean, I bought it in 83.
Maybe it was a 1980.
Yeah, it was actually old.
I like that thing.
It was older than that actually.
Should have cut the top off, had a drop top.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, it was moving.
So going from A to B, so who cares?
So I bought it from another Bulgarian.
So he was, I don't know, he was going somewhere too.
Yeah.
And so I go to, with my wife, we're going to.
She still wasn't my wife then, but was she my wife?
Yeah, I think by then she was my wife.
So anyway, so I had an attorney.
Just I have to back up a little bit.
And this attorney was a French guy.
His name was Francois de Couteau, I still remember.
He was a fucking crook.
If I see him, I'll beat his ass.
So he took all these Bulgarians as clients
and made us pay a thousand dollar retainer who was 60 of us.
And he never helped anybody.
He took the money and just skipped.
And you could not do anything about it
because he had no fucking status.
You couldn't complain.
Nobody believed you in the whole nine years.
So he told us, he said, I was already splitting up with my girl
because she was, she didn't want it to work.
Things were different.
It was a different world.
I couldn't do this, you know, back in Bulgaria was,
you know, we can do whatever we want to.
And I was making good money and she was making some money.
And then it was okay, you know.
In the real world, you have to work to pay the real rent
and all the good stuff.
So we go to the Indian guy and have you ever been in an Indian reservation?
I don't think so.
I mean, this is the first one.
I don't know if they're all like this,
but you go and you go down the street and there is a gate,
like a regular gate, like a train, you know, where the train crosses.
And there is a little hut where the guard stays.
And there was a guard with an AK-47.
There was actually two of them.
Indian guards?
Yeah, an Indian.
I mean, just not dressed in any uniform, just a guy.
Okay.
And he stopped the car and said,
where are you going?
I said, I'm going to see hot dog.
His name was hot dog.
So, okay, you go down here, go left, go right.
Once you go in the reservation, it's like you're in a plan,
you know, like in a housing plan.
It doesn't look any different.
I mean, maybe it's not as decorated, you know.
But you go, there's a home here, a home there, then next street,
just like similar to here, you know.
Not as prettiest landscaping, you know.
Right.
So, we go in front of the house, I park the car, knock on the door,
and this guy opens the door.
Have you ever seen one flew over the cuckoo's nest?
Oh, yeah.
That guy opened the door.
I look up and I'm like, holy shit.
I said, I'm here to see hot dog.
He said, I am hot dog.
I'm like, okay.
So, and so I said, you can help out.
Yeah, no problem.
Come on in.
So, we walk in and you walk through the room,
and there is cartons of cigarettes from the floor.
All the way to the ceiling.
And you're just walking in this little hallway between the cartons.
This guy smuggles cigarettes on a fast boat through Lake Ontario.
He brings them from the U.S. to Canada,
because cigarettes in the Canada were $6.76.
That's why I stopped smoking when I moved to Canada.
For a pack?
For a pack of cigarettes.
And back then in the U.S., a pack of Lucky Strikes was $0.99 at the 7-Eleven.
Yeah.
So, they just buy, bring them over here.
On a cigarette boat, no less.
No less, yeah.
No pun intended.
Yeah.
That's great.
So, I go in there and I sit at the table with him, and he, very nice guy,
you know, introduces himself, says, what's the date?
When are we gonna go?
And I'm like this day that.
Said, don't worry about it.
It's gonna be fine.
I said, do I give you any money right now?
He said, no, you don't give me any money until we cross.
I'm like, well, that's really fair, you know.
So, he came outside, looked at the car.
He said, make sure all your lights are working, you know, no broken windows.
Don't have anything on the back seat.
You know, just look like you're just going for a day trip.
I'm like, okay.
But you still didn't have your passport?
I didn't, no, I don't get, I'm not getting my passport.
I didn't get it.
Right.
So, and well, if I had my passport, I would have gone, I could have walked up to the border
and crossed, you know, by asking for political asylum.
Because the U.S. back then didn't care.
Actually, you could just walk into the U.S.
This was before 9-11.
Was that still Bush senior?
No, it was a Klan.
No, it was Bush senior.
Okay.
Klan was just up and coming because he deported me later.
That's why, you know.
So, basically the Canadians had a deportation order against me
and I skipped the country before they deported me.
So, I went to the Indian guy and we met on the date when we were gonna cross.
And I think we crossed somewhere around Platsburg.
I don't remember.
I was so, you know, crazy going on in my head.
And I had bought my first color TV in my life.
I was 28 and I was very proud because you could not buy a color TV in freaking Bulgaria, you know.
So, I had this piece of shit, 20-inch color TV, the real big ones, you know.
There was no flat screen TVs.
It wouldn't even fit in the back of my Renault Alliance, you know.
And I had it in the back seat and I go to the Indian guy.
He said, I had that TV, you gotta go.
I said, no, you cannot go.
I said, we'll put it in the catalog.
They had a catalog.
So, we'll put it in the back of the catalog and then I'll give it to you on the other side.
I'm like, okay, I didn't want it to part with my TV, you know.
And I'd rather die.
Well, it's my first freaking TV.
I mean, I don't know if you can even imagine a 28-year-old guy
getting excited about the color TV, you know.
Yeah, no, I can't imagine.
It's just the thing, you know.
And so, I got like, okay, so, and we're driving now.
And I'm driving with my wife and he's driving in front of us.
I'm following him.
He pulls over and he says, okay, we're gonna switch cars.
I'm like, okay.
So, your wife goes with my wife and I'm driving your car.
And I'm like, okay.
I'm like, is he gonna fit in this car?
It was a small car.
So, he basically kind of like squeezes in.
She starts going and he tells me, I said, give me a cigarette.
He said, you cannot smoke because if you smoke, it looks like you're nervous.
I'm like, that's why I want to smoke because I'm nervous.
He said, don't smoke, just breathe normal, try not to talk.
If they ask you, say yes and no, very clearly, try not to talk.
So, they don't catch the accident.
I'm like, okay.
So, I mean, I'm telling you, where I park my truck is when we switch cars
and where the border patrol was, was around the corner of this building.
See, this is how close to the border he stopped to switch cars.
Okay, wow.
So, he sits in the Renault now.
She is going through the border.
It's just a gate, you know.
And it was around noon and the guy comes out eating a sandwich.
Where are you guys going?
And she goes, I'm gonna go play bingo across the border here.
I'm like, holy shit, that's good.
You know what I'm saying?
So, she pulls through, he leaves the gate open and waves us through as well.
We didn't even have to stop.
Wow.
And this guy has never driven a stick.
So, he's now in first gear and goes like 400, 5000 signal.
I'm like, you're gonna blow the engine.
So, what do you want me to do?
I said, you got a shift.
He said, we're almost there.
I said, just back off of the gas.
So, he goes, then he turns around, right around the corner, got out.
You know, I didn't even put it in second gear.
Wow.
And got out and said, all right, we're here.
Deal is done.
I mean, I'll take the money.
Here's your TV.
I gave him the money.
Here's your TV.
He was really nice.
I said, I need to go to Lido.
I had a friend in Lido where I was gonna spend the first night.
Okay.
At the way to Chicago.
Destination was Chicago this time.
Because the people that I befriended in Montreal,
they had friends in Chicago.
So, and those friends were gonna help us.
Okay.
So, we go jump in the car and start driving towards Lido.
And I remember going to the gas station somewhere over there.
And there was an armed guard at the gas station,
like a guy with a shotgun.
And I'm like, what the hell is going on?
And I came from Montreal where, I mean, everybody,
there's no crime.
There's nothing, you know.
And I asked the clerk, say, what's going on?
I said, oh, people steal shit.
So, he's just looking out.
And I'm like, oh, that's very assuring, you know.
So, anyway, so we ended up in Lido.
And I spent my first night over there.
And then I went to Chicago.
And in Chicago, I met those people.
They were elderly people.
They were in their 60s.
Really nice people.
And she cosigned for me on the apartment application.
We stayed one night at her house, you know, with my wife.
And then she's cosigned for me to get an apartment.
I had saved a couple of bucks.
We got an apartment.
I think it was like 400 a month or something like this.
Right next to us, they had shot somebody
because there was a chokeout line that they just had removed.
And they cleaned it up.
And the Mexican rented the place.
So, it wasn't the best neighborhood.
Let's put it this way.
And this was actually in Hoffman estates,
what wasn't a bad area, but there was some bad places.
It was by Schomburg, Illinois.
Okay.
So, I got this little apartment and I needed to get a job.
Now, the United States gave me a social security card.
After, so after I settled down and everything,
I went to immigration and we went and went to the registration.
And she said, so how can I help you?
And I said, well, I'm here to present myself.
We came illegally to the United States
and we would like to apply for political asylum.
And she said, go outside and if you look to the right,
there is a line and go in that line.
We go outside.
There's 300 people in that line, 90% of them Mexican.
This is 1992.
In Chicago, stood in line.
My turn came.
I didn't have a passport because the passport was gone.
I had a different Bulgarian ID that was in Bulgarian.
They took some of it, some information from that.
And then they wrote down, you know, all the vitals, you know,
the date of birth and whatever, you know, and they gave me,
they gave me that little card was just that social security card
like you have, but it has a stamp on it and says,
not authorized to work without employment authorization on it.
So when you went to get a job and they ask you back in the day,
show me your social security card, you show that they didn't hire you
unless they wanted to hire you under the table.
Okay.
So, of course, I found a job under the table at this company.
Fancy, fancy company.
So explain that again.
They wouldn't let you take a job.
They don't let you take a job until you get an employment
authorization from the US.
So you basically apply for this employment authorization.
Okay, so you're not allowed to get a job?
I'm not allowed to get a job.
But did they tell you you can go find a job and work under the table?
No.
That's the dumbest thing.
So they say you have to be unemployed?
Well, they didn't say that, but they said that I cannot work in the United States
because I'm not a US resident, so I cannot work.
I mean, I'm applying for political asylum, so I'm kind of like in limbo.
And how long did they say it would take for you to get the...
I think it was about six months before I get my employment authorization.
Okay.
What is crucial if you don't have any money?
I mean, think about six months is a lot of money.
Yeah, that's a long time.
Well, that's why I had to find a job under the table.
Right, which I'm sure every single one of those people online did.
Yeah, but they were, I mean, not that, you know, they were different.
I got a job in...
They were Mexican, so they had like 16 jobs each.
Right, and they're like more into the landscaping and whatever.
Well, I did some landscaping.
Yeah, and all of these people are getting jobs every day.
Yeah, whatever it is.
Yeah.
So I started actually...
I think I started cutting grass for this guy from Hungary.
He was a Hungarian guy.
He was an older guy.
He ran his own landscaping business, not a business, but, you know, maybe like 30 clients
and you do the dirty work and he pays you five, six bucks an hour under the table.
That was it.
Okay.
So that was the first job I got.
And then the Mexican that moved next to us, his name was Fernando, a local guy.
And one day we were having some beers out there and I tell my wife, you know what?
You have to find a job.
You need money.
I cannot...
I mean, this is not working, you know?
And she goes, yeah, I'll find a job, but I don't have any papers.
And he's like, this Mexican guy does.
Oh, papers.
We make papers.
What kind of papers do you need?
I said, well, she needs to work.
He said, well, I can...
He goes like, for 50 bucks, I can make a green card and you cannot show it to the police
or anybody else, but it's a green card, good to get employment with.
Oh, wow.
Oh, my God, that's cool.
So she got a green card.
We went and we got to his cousin's house somewhere.
I don't know where it was.
There's a bunch of people drinking beer in there.
And obviously, this is not the first client that is coming in, you know?
And they're like, come on over here.
And they pull this sheet of whatever, light blue, whatever,
stand in front of it.
They take a picture.
They laminate the ID and all that stuff.
I mean, they were pretty efficient, you know?
Yeah, right there.
And you get it 50 bucks done.
It was, I mean, it was good looking, but if you're a cop,
you couldn't figure out it's not real, you know?
Right.
Now they have all kinds of holograms and you cannot do anything.
And most people looking to hire people don't give a shit.
They're just like, they need people to work.
If you're applying for any kind of a job, they ask you to hire a U.S. citizen always.
Right.
But they're not like inspecting the thing.
They don't really give a shit whether you're legal or illegal, right?
No, maybe yes.
I mean, I don't know.
I mean, I honestly don't know how it is now.
Long story short, then I got a job at Mark Shales.
It was an exclusive men's store.
Now I already had the paperwork, so they gave me the card.
They hired me as a stock boy.
So I was really stocking the shelves, you know,
straightening out shirts and stuff like that.
And this guy came to the store and all the salespeople were busy.
And he goes like, hey, you work here?
I said, yeah.
Can you show me some cruise wear?
I don't know if you remember that, but back in the 90s, there was this cruise
where people used to go to cruises and wear these polo shirts.
The green, the pink one, you know, the whole shirt is like one color
and has the little horsey on it, the polo horse and the white pants,
like really like Caribbean kind of dress was a thing, you know.
And we used to sell all the colors and all the shorts and all the socks
and all that stuff, you know, expensive store.
Yeah, like South Beach type wear.
Exactly.
And Scottie Pippen used to shop in Mark Shales.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
So back then, they were exactly, that was the time that they were champions, too.
Actually, he did come in the store a couple of times.
So you guys made the big and tall clothes?
They had everything.
They made custom for him.
Those suits were five grand a piece, but now it's nothing, you know.
I bet now probably it's 50 grand.
And so this guy that I say, well, maybe this shirt with that shirt
and this with that and shorts with it.
So I put a couple outfits together and then, oh, I like this.
I'll take all these and what about this and what about that?
And I ran up like a $9,000 sale in clothing, you know.
It's just a lot of freaking clothing.
They were expensive and they were paying 6% commission on the clothing.
And he said, well, I am ready.
So let's go and ring it up.
And I'm like, well, I'll get somebody to ring it up
because I didn't know how to work or register or anything like this.
And this old man came very helpful.
This Jerry guy, you know, this little sleazeball.
Because I'll help you ring it up.
So he took it to run it up.
But the boss, Levitt, he was a Jewish guy.
Levitt, he was his name.
He somehow got wind of it.
That this has happened.
And then he said, they gave me like half of the commission, like 300 bucks.
But I mean, in one day, 300 bucks, I've never made money like this in my life.
And then he hired me as a salesman.
So from stock boy to salesman.
Okay.
So I, you know, started as a salesman, worked a little bit there.
And this guy came back, the guy that I sold the cruise work to.
And he said, I need to do this and this.
So we were talking and he goes like, I said, where are you going this time?
He said, oh, I'm not going anywhere.
We have a little place in Treasure Island.
Treasure Island.
That's, that's my favorite book.
What are you talking about?
He goes like, it's a little island in Florida.
Have you been there?
I said, no, I never been to Florida.
He said, oh, let me show you.
And then back in the end, they didn't have like phones or anything.
So he pulls up a couple of postcards with an aerial of John's pass, you know, with the sand.
Palm trees.
And I'm like, oh, this place is the shit, man.
I'm going to move there.
What the hell am I doing here in Chicago?
And he goes like, had there been a, was there a bridge there already?
There was the old bridge, the old old bridge.
Oh, I wonder what year?
Cause there didn't used to be a bridge there.
No, there was a bridge.
Like the past didn't always used to be a pass.
Now, but that was 92.
They built that.
92.
92, 93.
Okay.
There was a bridge there.
I don't know the bridge was there because I crossed actually the bridge.
But it was a different bridge.
It was actually two bridges before this one.
Two bridges.
Yeah, two bridges.
It was a real dinky freaking bridge.
Yeah.
It was like the Dime Bridge on Tierra Verde, you know.
And the Dime Bridge did now it's a dollar.
What?
The Dime Bridge did now it's a dollar.
Oh yeah, exactly.
So, so I'm like, well, this is a really nice place.
And I wrote it down, you know, Treasure Island.
And I mean, there was no computers to look at up or anything like this.
But that was like a bell in my mind how this beach and it looked like,
it looked like Tom Sawyer's adventures.
What I read as a kid too, you know, with Huckleberry Finn going down the river and
and I'm like, well, this is really cool.
You know, I'm getting out of this shit hole here.
So there was a few things happening in the meantime.
My dad visited me and, you know,
there was other things, but maybe another time.
What was the process of your green card?
Were you trying to get a green card?
Were you trying to get citizenship?
I was trying to get a green card.
And what did they tell you the timeline was for that?
The timeline was that at least two to five years.
Two to five years.
Okay.
But you were allowed to work.
They said, just wait it out, work.
And two to five years, we'll get you a green card.
You'll be a citizen.
Right, right.
Okay.
Well, if you if you had to go to a court case.
Okay.
So the court case is you came illegally to the United States.
So why did you come illegally?
And you say, because I have a political,
I searched for political asylum from Bulgaria.
So they listened to your case.
Why are you looking for political asylum?
You know, I did have a case.
And then they say, then they, the judge says,
well, now they, he can say Bulgaria is now democratic
and you can go back.
They, all those bad people, they're gone.
Okay.
You know, that's exactly what happened.
You know, because I got deported later on too.
Okay.
So this is exactly what happened later on.
All right.
So I went to, from Chicago, I went to Florida.
Oh, no, I didn't, before I went to Florida,
I already had split up with the, with a girlfriend,
but we lived in the same place.
And I had purchased a new car.
So now I had another Renault alliance,
but this one had a kick ass stereo in the back, man.
The whole, they had an amplifier,
whoever had it before, you know,
Yeah.
Subwoofers.
Oh yeah.
It was boom, boom, and the windows vibrating, you know,
this in the nineties was the shit, you know,
the whole car was moving.
This how powerful that thing was, you know.
And it was a little bit newer, you know,
it was kind of like fancy for me.
When my dad came and visited me, I had two cars.
I had the two Renault alliances.
One was $700, the new one, and the old one was $400.
And he thought I was making it, you know.
He was like, wow, you have two cars, son, good job.
You know, I'm like, yeah, dad.
Well, what was his, at that point when he came to visit you,
was he trying to get you to go back to Bulgaria?
What was the situation in Bulgaria then?
I actually, the situation in Bulgaria was getting,
well, the situation in Bulgaria never got really bad,
but it deteriorated for a while and then recovered.
Okay.
Did he think about moving in with you?
No, no, no, he was too old then.
Okay.
He came, I wanted him to come and visit, you know,
because I couldn't go back.
And then he had the opportunity to come.
They let us travel, you know, at this time,
I think it was in 90, 93, maybe he came over here.
And then I introduced him to these people
that were actually his age, you know, the friends that helped.
And they became friends.
And it was a nice thing, actually.
It was a real nice thing that he came over,
because this was, well, then I went back
and then he passed after that.
But anyway, so now I'm going down to Florida.
And I told the wife, I said, oh, I'm going down to Florida.
We already got divorced in Chicago.
We got a $300 divorce special, some guy divorced us.
And I said, I'm going down to Florida.
And, you know, and you're on your own.
And then she started crying.
And you're going to leave me here.
I'm going to die here in this cold and blah, blah, blah.
Well, all right.
So here's the deal.
You come with me, you go in the car, I'll drive you down there.
I will find, I'll find a place for myself.
You're welcome to stay the first two nights there.
And then you're out of there.
You know, you go find your own place and it will go from there.
And she's all right, fair enough.
So we drive down from Chicago to Treasure Island.
Triptychs, I don't know if you remember what a triptych is.
So you went to, it's like a map quest, but even older than that.
Really?
You went to AAA and you told them that you want to drive to Florida
and give them the destination.
And they gave you a folder and maps on each page.
You told you where, what they exit to take.
No way.
Yes.
Yes.
It was real nice.
For my time.
It was free, yeah.
So I drive down there.
I come here a nice afternoon.
I think it was a Sunday or maybe Saturday.
It was so quiet.
And I pull up right where Bob's house is.
Yeah.
That's, I mean, somehow I end up right there where Bob's house.
Yeah.
There was a little house right on the corner in the beginning
of Lagoon Lane.
I don't know if you remember that.
Yeah.
Was a guy, his name was Mike.
He had like one of those, one of those northern boats, you know, like,
was one of those blue boats with the cabin further up front.
He came from Massachusetts.
He lived right on the corner where Lagoon Lane, you know,
goes down and then turns on the bridge.
Okay.
Right on that corner.
That was the lot.
And he was, I drove by there and it said for rent.
And he had the, basically it was like, he had six rooms that he was renting.
I mean, little apartments or another political inefficiencies.
Yes.
And they were fully furnished.
And I think mine was 450 bucks.
That was the bigger one and it was on the bottom floor, underwater 450 bucks.
Now it's probably 4,500 a month.
Well, that's gone now that they built condos there and there's four condos
and each condo is $1.4 million.
So it's $4 million.
Just for inflation.
Yeah, you're about right there.
$5.6 million, the same property.
Well, anyway, so I go over there and he goes,
well, I'm a commercial fisherman.
So rent is this, you pay it on the first, electricity is this,
that's included, this, this, this.
Okay, cool.
And he goes on Saturday and Sunday, I go out on the boat.
If you want to earn a couple extra bucks and a couple of fish fillets,
you're welcome to come and help.
I mean, I'm like, wow, this is amazing.
Was it Cooper fishing?
He was fishing for everything.
And we were catching everything two back then.
There was fish everywhere.
On long lines?
No, just off the boat.
Okay.
It was a small boat.
It was probably like, I would say like a 24 footer if it was that.
Okay.
And we'll go out and there was another guy, Dean, that used to live there.
And him and another guy, all four people, we go out and we,
you could climb on the roof on that boat.
It was a hard top roof and jump from the roof.
I had a bow, man.
And you go and then you get paid.
He used to pay like 20, 30 bucks or so to go with him.
And then it gives you like four, three or four fillets,
like hogfish, grouper, whatever, you know.
It was great.
How many days did you guys go out for?
Just for the day.
Just for one day.
Okay.
I only went when he was going for a day.
So it wasn't one of those like true commercial boats.
No, no, no, no.
Was it?
It was just for, I think he was doing for himself.
And then the other side, he was in construction.
I mean, they, they own the house and they rented the,
that was a business, you know.
Right.
So six apartments and they lived in the same,
it was a little like a hotel kind of thing.
Right, right, right.
Yeah.
And then he was doing this on Sunday just for shits and giggles, I guess.
And he was selling some of the fish, of course.
So how did this all lead up to you getting deported?
Actually, it was Bob and I, we were coming from somewhere,
it was after midnight, we were trashed and we were looking to pick up something
from beach nuts, see if there is any pussy at beach nuts.
Oh, wow.
So we go over there and there is this girl and she's fucking hot as shit,
you know, and I'm looking at her, she's across the bar with this other girl
and some guy and they're talking and I'm looking at her, she's looking at me.
And it's like a really a thing going on, you know, just in the looking, you know.
And then she starts suddenly kissing this other girl in the mouth, you know, like,
I'm like, wow, this is pretty crazy.
You know, let me go and check it out.
So I walk by and I go right behind her and they just finished kissing.
And I go like, all right, it's my turn now.
And she said, okay, we started kissing.
And then she goes like, where are you from?
And I started talking and the other girl goes like,
hey, don't talk to my sister, she's married, she has three kids.
That was the girl that they were kissing.
They were sisters, they were kissing.
Just messing around, they were crazy girls.
Cool girls, really cool girl.
Typical Tuesday night in Florida.
Yeah, something like that, yeah.
Treasure Island at least.
You guys don't see that much over in there, over in Bulgaria?
I know, we were pretty good at that part.
We don't, we're not that crazy, but it's more real stuff than not pretend stuff.
Yes.
And so, you know, we started talking and next thing, one thing led to another.
And she goes like, well, just follow us.
We're going to my friend's house.
They have a hot tub, we're gonna go in the hot tub.
It was a one night stay.
What happened to Bob?
I don't know.
No, I mean, it was a rule if you found somebody, you know,
that wasn't what we were searching for each other.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course.
Anyway, so I met this girl, her name was Terry.
And I really fell in love with her.
And over this weekend, I mean, we just were burning up, real love, you know, like
on the phone, you know, like a teenager, you hang up, I hang up, you hang up,
half an hour phone calls and hour phone calls, you know.
And she told me she was getting divorced, what wasn't actually the fact.
I mean, she might, she did get divorced, but it wasn't when we met, I guess.
I think everything is past.
This is the sister?
This is the sister that actually was married.
The sister that wasn't married, she didn't, I mean, she got married later on,
but I married the older sister.
She was actually like seven years older than me.
Beautiful girl, look like Paula Abdul.
Beautiful girl.
You remember Paula Abdul?
Yeah.
Kind of like Minion like this, picked it nice ass.
Great girl, great woman too.
And a long story short, talking on the phone, this, that,
and she said, why don't you, oh, she flew me to, she had money.
I mean, I, back then I thought she had money.
So she flew me to Pittsburgh in September, that not even like three weeks after we met,
you know, and she was, she had a clothing store in, in a little town in Zillionopoul.
It's by, by Pittsburgh is a suburb of Pittsburgh, by Schomburg and so on.
And she flew me in and we had a great time, you know, all good stuff.
And somehow there was a pair of pants that, so somebody came to this hotel
and had a pair of pants on a dry hang, you know, the dry cleaning stuff.
How do you carry?
Oh yeah.
And it must have slid off and the pants must have fallen down right behind her car.
Nice pants, you know, whatever.
And some hotel worker went and found that those pants were there
and decided to call Terry on the phone.
And the phone that was given or whatever the registration or the car, I don't know how,
and they somehow called him and asked him if he had left his pants at this hotel.
And that created some suspicious in him, you know, it's like whatever happened.
And I'm not going to get into many details on that, but
eventually in November, she came down again for her friend's wedding.
So I saw her almost every month, you know, I met her in August,
September, October, November, I saw her.
And then in January, I was like, I got to move there when I was in love, I had to move.
If you have ever been in love in love, it's an amazing feeling.
It's just amazing that the world is just amazing when you're in love, you know.
So she fell the same way.
So I packed my shit and I moved to Pittsburgh in 1994, I believe, was February.
And Pittsburgh was on the front page with a winter storm and four feet of snow.
And I moved it.
And Bob was showing me the paper.
Are you really you want to move there?
Like if you looked at the paper, do you see how much white stuff is there in the snow?
Yeah. So I did move there and moved there, got an apartment, got a job.
She did get divorced.
We did get married.
We kind of got married on the hush hush.
And then after we got married.
So does that mean you get citizenship?
No. So I got married.
I moved in.
We lived together already in her house.
Okay.
I had a job, a real job.
Everything was registered to her house.
We went together to Vegas.
We went on vacations.
And one day I received a letter that I have to present myself in immigration.
And I'm like, well, what's that about?
Let's look it up.
She was an agent.
Wasn't her our relationship was top notch.
I'm telling you for the first we were married for 10 years.
The first eight years was wonderful.
Wow.
Then it got fucked up.
And even this deportation made it even more adventurous.
Kind of like, you know, it's like one of those books, you know,
where that, you know, this with a girl following the guy's arms
and he's getting deported.
It was like a story, you know, brutal.
And so I call, I had an attorney.
His name was Goldberg.
And I called him and I said, so I have to go to immigration.
What does that mean?
And he says, that means that you're going to probably get deported.
They're going to actually open up a case.
And I said, well, what can we do that I don't get deported?
I am married.
I mean, I have a wife.
She has three children when I married.
So I'm already in the family and I'm, you know,
it's kind of like a difficult thing to deport.
I have a job.
I pay taxes.
I have no, I have no criminal record, nothing.
And he goes, well,
just come on down here and we'll go to immigration.
So I go to his office and we call immigration from his office.
Actually, his office was downtown Pittsburgh.
It's right across the street, this immigration.
So we call and they say, we need you to come to the office here.
And he's like, well, what's going to happen if he comes to the office?
Well, his order for deportation is going to happen.
And he's like, we have to postpone it.
And he said, well, you can postpone it for two weeks
or three weeks or whatever.
So we postponed it.
And then my wife, that's my American wife now.
Her name was Terry.
And she goes like, we got to do something.
I know this girl, Pat from Eloquipa.
That's the ghetto over there.
And she, Black Pat, she's really good.
She does magic.
She believed in this black shit magic, black magic.
And I'm like, honey, I don't believe in this shit.
We're going.
All right, we're going.
So we're going.
So we go over there and it's this crickety old house.
And Pat has a daughter in a wheelchair.
She pushes her around and parked her somewhere.
And then I asked her, can I record?
I had a little recorder.
I said, can I record what you're saying?
I said, you cannot record anything.
You cannot take any pictures,
but you can write down whatever you want.
I'm just writing down everything I asked and said,
so later on I can compare, you know?
So she goes like, so what's going on?
We're going to explain the situation.
He said, oh, for this stuff, when is that hearing?
I said, well, I have to call on the phone.
It's going to be a hearing over the phone.
It's next week on Tuesday.
It's going to be in Philadelphia.
And they're going to, you know,
ask me questions over the phone.
I don't have to be present there.
And that's how it's going to work.
And she goes like, okay, okay.
What date is that?
Okay.
So she writes down things and goes like, well,
what we have to do is we have to do some river work.
I'm like, what the fuck is a river work?
Well, river work is we go down to the river
and we do some, you know, chants.
And I'm like, how much is a river work?
It's like, oh, that's expensive.
That's about $2.50.
And I'm like, Terry, come on, let's get the fuck out of here.
I'm not going to do this, you know?
I said, no, we're doing it.
We're doing it all the way.
I'm like, okay, we're doing.
So she does her river work
and comes up and says,
I see you next week in a white van with handcuffs.
I'm like, okay.
I also see you going to jail
and you're going to spend some time in jail.
Sounds really good.
Okay.
What else do you see?
She's reading your palm.
No, she is.
So this is, she did some rocks and whatever.
Some rocks?
Yeah.
And the river work.
Whatever, something, you know?
Okay.
And she says, this is what I want you to do on this day,
on the day before, the day before.
So before the judge, before the hearing.
So you're going to go home.
You're going to write the judge's name on a piece of paper.
You're going to pour some white candle wax on it to seal it.
Some bullshit.
I'm like, okay, okay.
And Terry's writing everything down.
I know she's going to do it.
I mean, we're already two feet in into this, you know?
So write down the name and then put it in an ice tray
and then freeze the ice with the name frozen inside.
And you go into the bathtub and put some vinegar.
And then after you dump in the bathtub and soak,
just a little spoon of vinegar or whatever.
And then you take a bath in there and you come out
and you do something with some bleach or, I mean,
I'm like, I'm not doing all this shit.
She said, yes, you are doing it.
So I'm doing this shit.
You know, the wife says, I have to do it.
So I'm doing it.
Is this like a witch doctor?
Something like that.
Yes.
Like a voodoo kind of like black magic kind of thing.
And I'm like, whatever, this is not going to happen anyway.
So next day comes around.
I'm waiting for the phone call for the hearing, you know?
My attorney calls me and says, I need you to come to the office.
We're going to take the call here on the conference call, you know?
And I'm going to assist you if you have any questions.
We're going to be in the speakerphone.
I'm like, okay.
So what time is the call?
I don't know.
It was like 12 o'clock or one o'clock.
And he goes, come here at 11.
I'm like, okay.
So right before 11 o'clock, I get a call and it's my attorney.
And I said, did they change what's happening?
He said, well, unfortunately, the judge was in an accident
on the way to the courthouse and he broke his leg on the turnpike.
I don't know.
I have never checked that.
Maybe we can check that.
I don't know how I have to find those dates, but we should check that.
And what was the judge's name?
I don't know.
I can probably find out.
I mean, I don't know if I all have the paperwork with anyway.
And I'm like, oh, shit, this thing is like working
or it's a total coincidence, you know?
And so the judge is the judge that and they have postponed the meeting.
I'm like, good.
How long?
How long?
We don't know.
Okay.
Well, it wasn't that long.
So probably a week later, another call.
Come in immigration.
What's the come with your suitcases ready to go home to Bulgaria?
And I'm like, why?
What?
Oh, before that, they had actually, they put me and my wife
in two separate rooms and asked us questions that only you would know.
So for example, where do you keep your socks?
In what drawer?
What color is your toothbrush?
What where you keep your towel in the bathroom?
You know, things only you would know.
Yeah.
And we were legit and they actually wanted a file with all the pictures
of us being in Las Vegas and stuff like this.
If you haven't seen the movie green card, it's just like that.
Okay.
And so back then, I mean, there was no computers.
I mean, there was computers, but it wasn't like what we have now.
And I had to go to Kinko's and get like color, color photos.
I mean, they were color photos and I had to make copies and put them in a booklet.
30, 40, 50, 60 photos from our vacations, you know, and it cost like $5 for a freaking
page or something like this to have it printed in color, you know.
So I had this binder that we gave to the FBI and then we had a car from the FBI
hang out in front of the house for like four or five days just to make sure that
I'm not bamboozling him something, you know, all this money for nothing.
And the reason they picked me because I was the one that I never ran.
I paid my taxes and I always worked.
I never received welfare from this country ever in my life, ever, not even unemployment, ever.
So anyway, and I'm proud of it.
So
now that they come and they're going to deport me.
You think welfare and that kind of stuff is a bad thing?
No, I think it's good if you needed for a help, but I didn't need it for a help.
I survived without.
I think it's great that you can receive, but it's a help.
It's not something that you live off.
Right.
You know, it's to help you in a bad situation.
Yeah.
So but it's not something you just milk forever.
Right, of course.
Yeah, that's what I think.
It's never good.
No, it's great.
It's great that you have it as a help, but it's unfortunately getting abused, you know.
So we are, they're calling and I have to go to immigration.
I have to go with my suitcase and I'm refusing.
They come to the house.
They put me in a white van, put handcuffs on me, drive me to jail and put me in jail.
Seven days in the Butler County jail.
The Canadians are fucking with me and not sending me my passport.
I'm waiting for my passport.
They know I'm in jail.
So I escaped from them.
No, no, they're fucking with me.
So the max was seven days.
So I spent seven days in jail.
I learned how to play spades in jail and it was all kinds of characters.
It was again like a movie, you know, you're in jail, you're lifting weights with those guys.
It was one of those transfer jails that, you know, if you did something in Miami,
they'll put you in Butler County and then they'll drive you to Juliet or whatever it is.
There was a guy from Cuba who was his head of life.
He was going to go for a life sentence for cocaine.
We used to play chess together.
There was, I mean, there was all kinds of characters there.
It was some funny things, amazing shit, you know, like just in the movies, you know,
like you're in the office, but in a jail.
And after the jail, there was no going home.
There was tell your wife to bring you your suitcases.
We're driving you to the airport.
And that was it.
They came pick me up from jail.
She had my suitcases.
They took me to the airport, gave us like 10 minutes together.
It was terrible.
And I flew from Pittsburgh to Philadelphia for Philadelphia to Frankfurt and from Frankfurt to
Sofia and I got deported and then a whole new adventure started.
So first, when I got deported, it was funny because I mean, for me, it's funny.
I don't know.
So first, somehow I don't take this real seriously.
You know, it's like, it's happening and it's happening.
So you're just going with it, you know?
You're not really processing at all.
No, I mean, it doesn't bother me, actually.
You know, it's not, I'm not worried.
You think this witch doctor lady was real?
Well, the things happened.
So obviously she was real.
I think it's a coincidence that she knew how the show went down.
It's way, way of a coincidence.
I mean, the coincidence that he has an accident and breaks his leg and doesn't attend.
And the coincidence of knowing that I'm going to be in a white van with handcuffs.
Pretty specific.
Yeah, but I'm sure all the vans that they pick people up in are white.
Yeah, it was a f***ing...
All paddy wagons are white.
Are they?
Maybe.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah, but I was there with handcuffs and it was next week.
So, and I was in jail too.
I mean, maybe it was coincidence, you know what?
Sometimes they know it's a logical step.
But you think about it a lot though?
No, I let it go.
You didn't really think about it?
I mean, back then I was really mesmerized, but this is even possible.
But then I, I mean, it wasn't...
It is a pretty big deal if you think about it, if it really can happen.
And maybe it can happen, who knows.
But I didn't elaborate on that.
So, and then in Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, the long flight to, to Frankfurt.
So, so I go on the plane and I was sitting in the aisle seat and, or in the window seat.
I was sitting in the window seat and there was this beautiful lady.
She was from Sweden, maybe a couple of years older than me.
And we started talking on the plane and she goes like, you know what?
I always take sleeping pills and I don't mean to be rude or anything like that.
But I'm going to fall asleep and probably sleep through the whole flight.
Do you mind changing seats?
So when you want to get out, you know, I don't bother you.
And I'm like, yeah, sure.
So she sits at the window seat.
I'll sit in the aisle seat.
Plane takes off and I'm fucking going somewhere.
I don't know what's happened.
I mean, I know where I'm going.
I'm excited going there because I have friends and family there.
But I'm kind of like a failure.
I'm upset.
So I started recording drinks on those flights.
Drinks are free.
And I drink this.
My wife just taught me that it's called a cotton ball.
It's a bottle of Baileys and a bottle of Scotch.
Those little ones?
Yeah.
You mix them on the rocks and you sip on it.
It's pretty good.
It sounds pretty good.
Yeah, it's pretty good.
Should try it.
Cotton balls.
So I'm down like eight cotton balls and I'm trashed.
And we're approaching Frankfurt.
And she wakes up and goes like, so how was your flight?
I said, oh, I'm sorry, but I got a little blitzed here.
And she said, oh, don't worry about it.
You know, it's okay.
I understand.
What are you drinking there?
I said, oh, these are cotton balls.
You should try one of those.
The guy walks by and she said, can I have one of those drinks
that he's having?
And he goes, yeah, yeah, he comes back with no drink and said,
sorry, man, but we have strict orders for seat 18B
or whatever the number was.
No alcohol with drinks.
Oh, because that was your seat.
Oh my God.
And I'm like, oh, that's a little too late.
I'm really trashed.
He said, oh, whatever.
He brought her a drink.
So we go at the airport.
So nobody leaves.
So the plane lands and they say nobody leave the plane.
They get you out first.
Just wait.
And I wait.
Oh, God.
Two cops walk in young, like about my age.
And one of the guys looks extremely familiar.
I look at him.
He looks at me.
I look at him.
He looks at me and I'm like, I speak German fluently
because I finished high school in Germany.
And I got, where do I know you from?
So are you from Bulgaria?
I said, yes, we went to school together.
We went together to high school when I was in Germany.
He had a Uzi on him.
He was the guy guarding me to take me to the airport.
And he's like, oh man, imagine you're a passenger
and this is happening on the plane.
People come with guns to pick you up
and you start hugging the guys that are picking you up
with the guns, you know?
How you doing?
He said, hey, we got to behave.
Let's go.
So they take me out.
They take me to the back steps.
We go out and go in this little green VW bus
with the blue light.
He drove me to the airport.
And he goes like, what can I get you?
Want something to drink?
I said, yeah, I would like a freaking beer.
You know, we're in Frankfurt.
I want a beer and a Frankfurt, you know, like a hot dog.
He said, dude, I cannot get you a real beer,
but I can get you an alcohol-free beer, you know?
And I'll get you the hot dog.
And that was it.
And then I sat there for four hours
before I had to get to the other plane.
And then the same guys came and picked me up.
And now I was the last one going on the plane.
So you have all these Bulgarians on the plane now.
They're nauseous shit, you know?
And there is this blue, blue, blue, blue, the green van
with the blue light, four guys with guns,
walking a guy up the steps.
The guy is hugging one of the guards before he leaves.
Pretty confusing, you know?
And then I go in there and sit in a normal seat,
not in first class.
So these people were like, who the fuck is this guy?
I keep it cool, you know, don't talk to anybody, whatever.
So we land in Bulgaria and I go to the thing to give them.
Now I already have my passport now
because they finally gave it to me.
The passport is expired by like two years or three years, you know?
So, and now I know this for the first time.
This was before as well.
How much people smoke in this country in Bulgaria?
Everybody freaking smokes all the time.
So you walk in and you go into the airport
and you're going to check your papers
where they actually check your passport
and stamp it and welcome to whatever.
Right.
And the girl goes, next, with the cigarette
in this little fucking cubicle, you know?
What the heck?
That passport is four years old.
I said, I know.
Oh, and they have this computer, this DOS shit, you know?
It's like with the green back then, you know, type names.
And she goes, oh, there is a warrant for your arrest.
I'm like, okay.
Perfect.
What else can you go fuck?
I said, what's the warrant for?
She said for unpaid stipend.
So I used to receive a stipend
when I went to the university over there.
So they gave you money for good grades or for whatever.
And at the end, it's a contract, you know?
Once you find a job, you don't have to pay it back.
But if you don't find a job, you have to pay it back.
Oh, that's cool.
They pay you to go to school and get good grades?
Well, they pay you.
They pay you.
It's an incentive.
It's not a lot of money, but it was like,
maybe over two years, I got like maybe $1,500.
What was, I mean, decent?
It was decent, you know?
It was a sum amount of money that I owed, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, it's better than here having to pay $60,000 a year
just to go to school.
You get paid to go to school.
Well, over there.
Seems better.
Over there going to school is free.
Because it makes sense, it's meritocracy.
In order to go to school, you have to pass a test.
You cannot just go to school.
Right.
And if you get good grades, they pay you a stipend.
All right.
And if you're excelling, do you get a stipend?
Yes.
It makes a lot of sense.
It makes a lot of sense.
Yes.
And then you're a good guy and you become a boss of a company
and you run the company in a good way
instead of running it in the ground
because you don't know what the fuck you're doing.
Yeah, you're right.
Meritocracy.
Exactly.
And so she goes like, there's a warrant for arrest.
And I said, well, what is it for?
And she said, for this and this.
And I said, how much is the fine?
And she goes like, she gave me some number.
And I'm like, that doesn't tell me anything.
We are now in hyperinflation, by the way.
I land in Bulgaria, it's in hyperinflation.
And I don't know if you know what hyperinflation is,
but that's like that movie where with $0.05,
you can buy a lobster dinner.
I have a $100 trillion Zimbabwe bill, yeah.
Well, we didn't go that far.
We went only to $10,000, I think.
But when I was a kid, the biggest denomination was $20,
so went to $10,000, imagine that.
And one American dollar, when I lived in Bulgaria,
was $1, was on the black market, was three level, three.
When I landed in 1996, one American dollar was $3,200 level.
So $100 were $32,000 level.
And that was a stack of money, man.
It looked good too.
And they had printed this new money.
It was beautiful money.
Unfortunately, I can still buy it
because they took it off after that.
They eliminated it after four or five years.
But it was a beautiful bank notes,
just the way they were done and everything.
They were probably worth more as a bank note
with the art on it than what money they were.
And so I go over there.
Well, how much is this in US dollars?
And she goes, that's $19.82.
I said, well, can I pay it now?
I said, no, you have to go to court.
I'm like, it's 20 bucks.
I'll pay it now.
Listen, sir, are you going to argue?
And now I'm not going to argue.
OK, go.
So I go.
And now I'm in Bulgaria.
My dad is there picking me up with my cousin.
My cousin was a representative for Marlboro.
So he drives a VW Passat like a station wagon,
painted like a Marlboro box.
He's the most popular guy in Bulgaria.
Everybody knows him.
He's cool.
He has this car.
So he's like a salesman.
He's a marketing manager.
Marketing manager.
Funny enough, Marlboro does not sell cigarettes in Bulgaria.
What do they do?
Well, they don't sell.
Marlboro doesn't sell him, but they import bootlegged Marlboro
from Iraq or Iran or somewhere from there and sell it.
And he just markets it.
And they pay him for the marketing.
Who pays him?
Marlboro.
They pay him for bootlegged cigarettes.
They pay him to market Marlboro.
That's all it is.
So they're just paying hands?
Well, later on, they started selling real Marlboro in Bulgaria.
For like branding?
Because they knew that eventually they would get real ones?
So basically in all the bars, because we have a lot of bars
where he's there outside.
He would go there and fill the bars up with cigarettes.
No, no cigarettes.
Umbrellas.
Marketing.
Umbrellas, hash trays.
Yes.
You know, stuff like this.
Yeah, like Red Bull does now with all the bars.
Right. Exactly.
Exactly.
And those things are free.
So Marlboro gives actually Marlboro should be paying
you to put it in your bar.
Right.
But in Bulgaria, it's the other way around.
Hey, my bar is cool because I have Marlboro umbrellas.
Hey, can you call your cousin?
I'll give him a couple hundred for an umbrella.
You know, one of those things.
I hope he's not listening to this.
Well, he probably will, but who cares?
I live downtown in Sofia.
Like, so if you can imagine New York,
and if Manhattan is the downtown, I live in Manhattan.
It's not that I live in Manhattan, but it's right down spec in them.
Okay.
In Europe, living in the city center is a cool thing.
It's not, it's not the suburbs.
You know, it's the cool thing is to live in the city center.
Okay.
And since my parents had this house forever,
and it's, it's really in a cool place.
Actually, the house is gone now,
but we'll talk about it another time.
And so I go to see the judge and he's right down the street.
I'm very familiar with the area.
I grew up there and everything.
It's nine o'clock in the morning.
I go into this little courthouse and there's nobody in there,
except there's a lady in the reception painting her nails.
And I go, hey, what's going on?
Where I need to have to see this judge.
And he said, well, he was supposed to be here at nine.
He's going to be here at 9.30, 10.
Go downstairs in the cafeteria and you can get an attorney there.
And I'm like, the cafeteria.
I need an attorney.
She said, yeah, just go down there and they'll tell you.
So I go down there at nine o'clock in the morning.
Don't forget that.
There is a guy that looks like Don Johnson from Miami Vice
with a white three-piece suit, brown shirt, gold chains,
bald head and wasn't that good looking like Don Johnson.
But you know, squirrely hair, like glasses,
and a couple other guys sitting down there drinking white wine at 9 a.m.
out of very nicely the glasses with some feather cheese,
with some pepper on it, talking and drinking.
And I walk in and he goes like, hey, how you doing?
I said, I am here to see a judge and so and so.
I said, oh, he's going to be here soon.
So come on, sit down, have a glass of wine.
I said, I don't know.
It's a little early.
I don't feel like it.
I got to go to court, man.
I said, what are you going to court for?
I said, I have a thing.
I mean, I have to pay some money because I, you know, whatever.
And he goes like, oh, you know what?
You should get a lawyer.
I'm like, for what?
He said, hey, what do you mean?
You get the lawyer.
You know what?
You pay me six bucks and I'll cut this thing down
to like $8 instead of $20.
I'm like, are you shitting?
This is how much this inflation made the money work
because you could go to a restaurant and for $6,
you can feed five people.
I'm not kidding.
In a nice restaurant too, you know?
And I go like, no, I'm just going to pay him
and we're going to get it over with.
I don't have that kind of a time, you know?
He said, no, no, we, no, you cannot, you cannot do this.
He's going to get offended.
He's come up with some story.
And I said, well, we're going to find a freaking lawyer now.
He said, well, I'm a lawyer.
I'll do this for you.
I'll do it for five bucks.
And I'm like thinking, like, this is such a fucking circus.
You know?
All right, let's do it.
Yeah.
So what's the story?
I said, the story is I went to school.
They gave me money.
I promised to get a job here and work and I left the country
and now I have to get the money back.
How much money?
I said, I don't know.
The whole fine is so much comes to $19.62.
He's like, well, that's a lot of money.
And I'm like, all right, it's a lot of money.
You know, it was a lot of money for over there.
At this point, and I'm like, OK, hey, this is a lot of money.
So, well, we're going to do this.
We're going to do this.
We're going to approach it.
I'm like, all right, let's go.
So we go up there and we went, how do you plead?
And I was like going to say guilty.
He said, I said, he said, not guilty.
And he talked to the guy.
He went to him and there's something in the ear, blah, blah.
At the end, yes, the fine went down to $9 instead of $19.
And he got $6 because I gave him a dollar tip
and everything was happy.
You know, took a couple hours for the whole nonsense.
So now I had paid my fine.
And my cousin goes like, we've got to go and see this guy,
you know, friend from the neighborhood.
He opened up a liquor store.
And you should see his liquor store.
See, he's the number one guy here.
The stores are called Toby T-O-B-I.
And his name was Todor and the other one was Bobby.
So they call him Toby.
And really, you walk into these stores
and they look like you are in a fancy liquor store
in the United States with the nice wood inside, the glass,
the liquor displayed nicely.
Actually, a lot of fans here in here.
So this guy is like four or five stores.
And he was a doctor when I actually,
he was my neighbor, one across the street.
And he was a doctor and he gave up his doctor thing
to become a, you know, a guy that has a liquor store.
Unfortunately, he also drank too much.
And at the end, he did die from alcohol poisoning.
But anyway, so long story short.
So we're going to this little restaurant.
It's a local restaurant right next to the hospital.
And there is this guy that makes this salad.
You know, in Bulgaria, you always get like this big salads.
And then you get this booze that you drink with the salad
and people talk and drink the booze and eat the salads.
So it's kind of like a very healthy thing, you know?
And this guy comes up with this, you know, roasted peppers
with tomatoes, feta cheese, cucumbers.
I mean, beautiful stuff, you know?
We're sitting there, we're drinking.
We're getting trashed.
I'm paying the bill.
I don't care because it's going to be five bucks or 10 bucks.
You know, I'm treating the guys and we have my cousin
and his wife, this guy Todor with his girlfriend
and another guy who was whatever at me.
I think so.
And anyway, so, and now Bulgaria is free, you know, supposedly.
You can buy a gun in Bulgaria.
So Todor has a gun, Tosho, actually they call him Tosho.
And he's going to show me his gun and we're drunk
and in the restaurant, you know?
And he said, I got to show you this gun.
I have a zigzag or you can do this.
This, come on, let's go outside.
I'll show you.
I'm like, okay, so we go outside.
It goes like bam, bam, bam.
This, we're talking, we're downtown, you know?
Shoots in the air.
Jesus.
And six, seven bullets, eight bullets.
And we go back into the bar and I was like,
wow, that's a cool gun and this and that.
And my cousin said, yeah, you gotta see mine.
I have a whatever, let for some Italian guy, little gun, you know?
And I'm like, what's with all the guns?
He said, no, you can get a gun now.
So it's, I'm like, wow, this is really cool.
But why do you have to go to a bar with a gun?
You know, what's the deal?
He said, ah, just, you know.
So half an hour passes by and this little gypsy kid walks into the
bar in the restaurant.
It's a restaurant.
It's like four, five tables, you know?
Nothing fancy, but really good food.
So the gypsy walks in with this guy behind him with a shaved head,
build like fucking, I mean, a huge guy like Hulk Hogan,
not that tall, but short, but like fucking a bully, you know?
And the little gypsy goes like, yeah, it was them over here at that table
and then walks out with the guy.
Next thing you know, I see these two.
Have you ever seen a Land Rover Defender?
And the old, the old defendants, the square ones, two of those pull up
and these four guys come out with AK-47s dressed in tactical gear
and come into the bar and are gonna arrest us for the shooting.
And they come in and in the same moment, the police comes in too.
So these were private guards.
We would have been gone if the police didn't show up.
Police shows up, they pack up their shit and they leave.
And we're like, what happened?
He said, who has the gun?
Him.
Well, I mean, he says me.
They took him against the wall, frisk him, took the gun, take my cousin,
put him against the wall, frisk him, take his gun,
puts me against the wall, frisk me, grabs my balls and squeezes him
like a motherfucker.
I'm like, what the fuck?
He said, where's your gun?
I said, I don't have a gun.
I didn't get the memo.
Don't get smart with me, motherfucker.
I'm like, all right, whatever.
I said, what happened?
He said, well, some of you, some idiot shot like a bunch of bullets up
and there is a 12-story building right across.
I mean, you should look when you're shooting.
And two of the bullets entered through the bathroom on the last floor
and cracked the sink when this guy, who is actually a mafia guy,
was shaving in there.
Oh, my.
And so he broke the sink from the end.
So you're shaving and your sink explodes.
They thought somebody was trying to whack him.
Holy shit.
And I'm like, fuck this.
I'm out of here.
They said, nobody's out of here.
You're all going to the police.
I'm like, I don't have a gun.
Why do I go to the police?
Well, you're not, but the other ones are going.
So they arrest my cousin with the Marlboro car, clown car.
And he's the one that drove us.
So that's the only car that we have.
Oh, I don't have a Bulgarian driver's license.
And I'm already in trouble.
I do have an American driver's license and a Canadian and some other ones.
And he goes like, I go like, well, let's go to the police station.
And who's going to drive?
Oh, I don't drive.
I don't drive.
His wife goes like, I can drive.
It was a stick.
She goes in there.
I said, can you drive?
She said, yeah, but this is a stick or whatever.
She's like, hot dog.
Yeah.
I said, get out.
So I go in the car and I start driving.
And so we are coming up with a plan now.
Let's go and get this guy.
We have a really, really good guy who is a prosecutor, really high up too.
This is the middle of the night, like one o'clock in the morning.
We're going to wake him up, pick him up.
So we go, wake him up, pick him up.
Then I drive from this house to this other.
This is all short distances.
Sofia says, when I was a kid, I thought it was a huge city.
And now you can walk the center in like 20 minutes.
Right.
It's like Amsterdam, you know, like small in the middle.
Right.
And we go to pick up.
So this is the prosecutor.
His name is the Cobra.
Goes like, all right.
So we're going to go out and pick up my friend.
He's a lawyer.
So we're going to the police station to get the guy.
So we go, I'm driving again.
Now I have the prosecutor, the lawyer.
My cousin's wife and Toto's girlfriend and I'm driving.
So I'm driving right through the city of the center where I live,
you know, like this, the main drag.
And I get stopped by the fucking cops.
And they stop me.
Where's the paperwork for the car?
I don't know.
Do you have a license?
Yeah.
What the fuck is this?
So it's a license.
It's an American license.
He goes.
Have you been drinking?
I said, yeah, I had a beer.
He said, oh, you're in big trouble, big, big trouble.
Takes my license, walks away and stands over in the corner there.
And I'm sitting in the car and I'm asking the,
this guy, the prosecutor asking, pick Cobra.
What does, what does this mean?
He goes like, it means you got to get out of the car
and he's going to ask you for some money.
I'm like, all right, is he going to ask him?
Or do I offer it to him?
He's going to ask you.
I'll come with you.
Okay.
We go.
I'm going with him.
I go with him and I say, well, this is actually my attorney.
He's going to take care of things.
He's attorney.
What the fuck?
Get the fuck back in the car.
You come here.
They don't have no respect.
I mean, whatever.
Now, I guess what he said.
So, you know that you're in big trouble.
I'm like, I do, but I'm going to go and get those guys out of the jail.
You know, he's like, oh, you'll get the guys out of the jail.
You're in big trouble doing that.
He repeats it like five times.
I know I'm in big trouble.
What do you want me to do?
He goes like, well, you know, I'm going to ask you now to blow the pipe, you know,
and we're going to read how much you have.
And the way you look, I mean, we're going to take your license.
You're going to jail and there's going to be a big fine too.
How much is going to be the fine?
He's like, well, it's going to be at least, I would say like 4,000 level.
That's about $1.50, but a lot of money over then.
And I'm like, wow, 4,000 level.
I mean, I don't know if I can, I'm fucking now with him.
You gotta, you cannot tell him here it is, you know, I don't know.
4,000 is way too much.
I mean, can we do 2,000?
And I'll pay you right now.
He said, no, it's 4,000 and it's right now.
And you're lucky that I'm a good guy because I'm going to let you go.
And I'm like, all right.
So I reach in this fucking pocket where I have this
wad of money and I don't even know the feeling of the money yet.
And I pull out 8,000, 4 times 2,000.
I pull it out and I take the two back and he's like, oh, well, you can go now.
And that was it.
And I was like, this is fucking crazy.
This is so, and this is, we're not talking, this is in a quiet street somewhere.
This is a smacked like you're at the boardwalk at Clearwater.
People are walking, drinking, talking, going to restaurants.
And we're paying off the cops.
Right. Just like in Mexico.
Is it that obvious too?
I think so.
Yeah, well, it's not like this anymore in Bogota.
It's similar, but there's a lot of tricks to it now.
And so we go to the.
So this is the place you want to move back to?
Yes.
Oh, it's, I mean, if you get in trouble, you're going to get in trouble.
What year was this?
This was 96.
96.
Clinton deported me then.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, old bill.
Oh yeah, you know, I never asked you, but why did they specifically pick you to be deported?
Because they, they have a quota.
So when you're going to become a new president, you're going to show how tough you are in immigration.
You remember back in the day, we were tough on immigration.
Now we are lax with immigration.
They just change the shit to keep you afraid or whatever.
So basically you come and say, yeah, I'm a tough guy and I'm going to deport all these
motherfuckers that are here illegal.
And then he goes in the office and says, hey, let's deport some motherfuckers.
Yeah.
Who do we have?
Oh, this guy lives there.
This guy lives there.
And that, but those are all the ones that are legal.
We're not going to chase the other ones.
Get those six ones.
We'll get them out.
That's how I got on that list.
Wow.
My ex-wife, Kathy, she got deported from St. Petersburg in 2009 or 10 by Obama.
Wow.
And this was like a long time after all this bullshit, you know, but anyway.
So that's how I ended up on that list.
Okay.
And then in Bulgaria, I spent a hundred days, exactly a hundred days.
We went skiing on the first week after I got there.
We went skiing to this resort and it was the end of the ski season and the hotel was closed.
So there was nobody in the hotel.
And I mean, there was personnel in there, but there was the last weekend of the ski season.
So I go with my posse now I had the posse because I had money, you know, I had a lot of money.
I mean, not a lot of money, but a lot money that bought a lot of shit, you know,
and first to go to the ski resort is probably, I would say like a hundred miles, 110 miles,
but this mountain hero takes about two hours to get there.
And usually you go by bus or somebody has a car and drives you there.
I mean, most of the guys don't have cars or whatever, or they have cars and
they're broken or whatever it is.
And I go like, we're going to take a cab.
You cannot take a cab.
That's like going from New York to Massachusetts with a cab.
You know, this is how they think.
I said, why we'll take a cab?
How much could it be?
Close thing a little closer.
He says he goes like, I don't know.
Well, so the night before we go out and, you know, go somewhere, ate something,
party around and I'm getting home with this cab driver.
And I asked him, hey, how much would it be for tomorrow to drive me
and a couple of friends to Pamporo?
This was the name of the resort of Borovitz, I think, Borovitz.
He goes, oh man, that's going to be expensive.
And I'm like, all right, come on.
I don't know.
Let me see this.
And he does all these fucking calculations in his head.
And now I know the numbers.
He tells me the Bulgarian number.
I know the American number.
He goes like, it's going to be, you have to pay the back way to, you know.
I'm like, well, you can pick up somebody over there.
No, I mean, I can't, but I'm not going to do it.
You have to pay the both ways.
All right, how much is it going to be?
He goes, it's going to be about nine dollars.
And I'm like, oh shit, nine dollars.
Can we go like eight?
He goes, all right, I'll do it for eight.
I was like, you come and be here at 6.30 in the morning.
6.30 in the morning.
He was there.
I gave him ten dollars.
This guy almost blew me.
I mean, he was so fucking happy.
I mean, this is how much that money, there was such a hyperinflation.
And then we went to the resort and the hotel, we go to the hotel and said,
well, there's nobody here.
I said, well, I see there is a guy in the kitchen.
He said, yeah, but this is the last weekend we're closing.
And I said, so what?
I said, I want like four rooms.
So he gave us four rooms and he goes like, well, if you're going to eat something,
you have to go and tell the chef what you're going to eat.
And you're not going to order from the whole menu.
So he's going to make you every day.
They're like a breakfast item or lunch item.
If you're going to eat lunch here and we're like, okay, okay, we can do that.
So we go over there and we tell the guy.
So so we go and we get up in the morning, eat breakfast, whatever.
And then we go skiing and then we ski.
And when we ski down at 12, 31 o'clock, we want you to be down there with a little table.
You have a white tablecloth and have like four Heineken's ice cold.
Next thing you know, 12, 30, you go down there.
The guy's down there with a white tablecloth with everything.
Living large.
Living large.
That's cool, man.
So what made you want to come back to the U.S.?
Well, I was married in the U.S.
I had a job in the U.S.
A house.
So you wanted to go about getting back after you get actually deported.
Like legitimately deported.
Well, you, you actually file a petition or have somebody help you.
And like, and I had, there's another story behind it was actually Arlen Specter.
And he was a senator from Pennsylvania when I dealt with him.
As far as like, he is a pathologist doctor, like Rand Paul is a doctor as well, you know.
And I don't know if he practices and then he's a senator or how they find out Arlen Specter
and then like type in like Arlen Specter JFK and figure and find what it says.
JFK autopsy or whatever.
Because I know there's multiple, multiple autopsies done on him.
I'm not sure they have.
Like the first one that was done was like the one that they was not the official narrative.
So was the first one, the one that you think was botched or what?
No, the first one was the legitimate one.
Oh, and then they.
When they brought him to the hospital.
Right.
And then they immediately took him and rushed him out of there and took him back to Washington.
And that's kind of like when the whole cover up took place.
That's that's when the whole stories took a twist.
Right.
Well, anyway, so this guy and it was an election year.
Okay, generally credited to Warren Commission staffer Arlen Specter.
Okay, so he was a part of the Warren Commission, Senator from Pennsylvania.
This theory posits that the single bullet theory known as the Warren Commission exhibit 399
caused all the wounds to the governor and the non-fatal wounds to the pro.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
So well, that's Wikipedia.
Anybody can put anything they want to in there.
Arlen Specter October was American lawyer, Pennsylvania Democrat.
So he wasn't a doctor.
He was a lawyer.
Russian, Ukrainian and Jewish parents graduated from Pennsylvania.
He was in the war.
Okay.
No, no, he helped formulate the single bullet theory in 1965.
He was a lecture district district attorney of Philly in 1973.
Okay.
So he was one of the head guys in the Warren Commission who helped develop that
bullshit single bullet theory, the theory that it went through.
So I have to correct what I said that he was a pathologist.
He was not right.
He was not.
This is what I was in.
I didn't read the whole thing.
I mean, I just knew that he was involved.
There's so many names involved.
It's hard to keep them straight.
So anyway, it was an election year and this guy, you know, said he's going to help and
actually I, through my deportation and everything, I, we created a new family.
And what I mean by that.
So my attorney that I had an attorney and he had a helper.
His helper was named, his name was David.
And then Ireland Spector's secretary was, I don't remember her name anymore.
So because David was dealing with his secretary all the time,
they met and eventually they got married.
Okay.
And he's the one that helped me actually to come back Ireland Spector
by signing some kind of a petition.
And I came back sometimes the beginning of August.
So I was only gone from, I think, from April.
It was kind of funny.
What year?
96.
So you came back in 96.
Yeah.
Oh, that's funny.
I told you why.
No, no, no, no.
Okay.
100 days from, I was deported to Bulgaria, spent 100 days in Bulgaria during the hyperinflation.
And then I got back and it was funny because I was, I would go to the embassy,
to the U.S. Embassy, like almost every other day, because they tell me,
come tomorrow, come tomorrow, come tomorrow, because I was a legit case, you know.
Right.
And my dad used to make fun of me because I never actually unpacked.
I had the suitcase like in the living room and I just go and get a shirt and wear it and then
another shirt and then we wash them and mix them up.
And I said, I got to go to the embassy today.
So I go to the embassy and, you know, and it's, I think it was the 6th of August or something
like this that I had purchased Jimmy Buffett tickets that I stood in line in Pittsburgh.
I know.
And I could not go to the concert.
So I'm mad that I'm totally like on a different wavelength, you know.
I go in there and I say like, so is the paperwork ready?
And they go like, no, we have to wait for this.
You have to take an HIV test.
HIV.
Yeah.
Okay, I'll take an agent.
So you have to go to this hospital.
So is it going to be ready for the 6th?
And they're like, why?
What's on the 6th?
I said, I have tickets to the Jimmy Buffett concert.
And I was, people busted off laughing in that office, you know.
How many immigrants come in there and bitching like,
hey, I'm going to miss the Jimmy Buffett concert, you know.
That's funny, man.
And I did miss the concert.
I did end up coming back on the 8th, I believe, or something like that.
It was the concert, it was in Pittsburgh then, yeah.
And I came back and life resumed.
So what makes you want to move back,
especially with all the crazy shit going on over there right now?
Well, there is really no crazy shit going on right now over there at all.
Are they NATO?
We are NATO, yes.
Okay.
By force.
I mean, small countries go with the winners.
So as soon as NATO starts losing, we're going to drop NATO.
So same thing like Bulgaria was with the Nazis,
you know, and then the Nazis started losing.
And then we went on the Russian side.
By the way, Bulgaria was freed two times from the Russians.
The Russians came and freed us from the Ottoman Empire in 1876.
And they also freed us in the Second World War from the Nazis.
Wow.
So they're not such bad people.
I mean, even though, yes, they are to a certain point, but I think that-
Who are such bad people?
The Russians.
The Russians are not bad people at all.
First of all, this idea that people grow up here
and the thing they know when they say Russia that they're bad people,
that's the worst thing that you can do.
They're the big-
I don't think people think Russians are bad people.
They think Putin's a bad guy.
No, he's not.
How is he a bad guy?
Well, we're not going to talk about it.
He did, you know, he blew up those apartment buildings in Chechnya.
And you know this.
Huh?
How do you know that?
I had the journalist in here who was the only American reporter
that was based in Russia.
He reported on it.
He wrote a whole book about it.
There was actually evidence that they found that KGB agents were there.
What was the purpose?
I don't know.
I know that they blew up something.
It was a false flag for the Chechen War.
Maybe.
They wanted to blame it on the Chechens.
Yeah, but we had a lot of false flags.
We had George W. Bush.
Yeah, I'm not saying that America is the good guys at all.
But you know, I mean, if you were to compare them, I mean-
Well, the only thing that I'm seeing right now that whatever he says makes a lot of sense
and whatever that idiot that we have now, I mean, you cannot even say what he's saying.
Right, but he's irrelevant.
He's fucking irrelevant.
Well, he's irrelevant, but I think that actually there is a big war going on between Europe
and the United States, the banking of Europe and the United States.
And the war in Ukraine is the reason they want to blame on that we're going to have
a huge financial crisis.
There is a huge thing brewing in the financial sector right now.
What's going on between the bank in Europe and the bank here?
I mean, I just got some- I watched something today, so I'm really not 100% on it.
So I cannot really explain it that well, but it's something with the treasuries,
you know, the 10-year treasury and the two-year treasury and something like
they're going to switch them from one to the other.
So basically, when Jerome Powell makes the rates go up, that fucks with Europe.
Because Europe are still at 0% because-
So that- and then Europe wants to fuck us over, so they have some kind of a plan.
And they're using the Ukraine war because they want to blame it on the Ukraine war.
Yeah.
So I mean, this is just beside the point, so.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, yeah, there's definitely a lot of nuance there,
especially when you're talking about Putin, everyone, you know,
he's portrayed as this evil man, this evil dictator.
But portrayed by whom?
By American media.
American media.
It's just anybody you talk to.
Everybody, it's just like a known fact in America that he's a bad guy.
That's exactly what I'm saying.
He's a bad guy because they tell you he's a bad guy.
Right.
And people build an opinion by somebody else's opinion.
That's why I say that people are brainwashed because people think,
people don't understand that there is no better place than the United States
in the world as far as like opportunities that you have.
Even now, where it's so fucked up, it's still better than most places.
Yeah.
And I'm not an expert on Russia or Putin by any means,
but I do know that just from what I've read and the people I've talked to,
that I've reported on it in person, that like, I know,
had one guy in here, David Satter, who lived over there for over a decade,
who reported on this stuff.
And he was actually the first American journalist ever to be 100% banned from Russia.
Like they literally kicked him out and they won't let him back in.
He lived there for a long time reporting on this stuff.
No, I believe you.
I'm not saying that it's not, I mean, but there is also,
there is people that through propaganda, they actually will believe one thing
and then they don't see the truth or vice versa.
I'm not saying that.
Right.
I mean, it's hard work to understand what the truth is.
It's really hard work to cut through all the bullshit and the propaganda.
And especially when you see what just came out with the Twitter files,
that the FBI is working directly with Twitter and Facebook and all these social media companies.
Yeah, but I mean, you should have known that,
I mean, I even kind of knew that after, I think after Kennedy, even like before Kennedy,
that this whole country was sold out to the CIA in the military industrial complex.
That was a long time ago.
And Kennedy was going to blow the whistle, I think.
And that's why they blew up.
Yep.
The Bay Pigs, Vietnam War, shit like Operation Northwoods.
Because there has to be, there has to think about it for how many years the United States existed
and in how many wars the United States, it's the only country that from the whole existence
spend only like nine years in peace, nine years, nine or 11 years.
Google it and see how many years that the United States was in, did not have a war.
It's less than nine years.
Yeah.
In a 200 or 200 year existence.
And then they are the bad guys.
I don't know.
I mean, I don't know this democracy that we are spreading,
like the Iraqi people are not happy.
They fucked up Libya.
Libya used to be a beautiful country.
Tripoli used to be a beautiful city, beautiful city.
Was the Paris of Africa.
And they fucked up this bitch, whatever her name is, Crooked, you know.
Who?
Hillary.
Hillary, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's a lot of sinister shit that goes on in the shadows of the American government.
It's, it's dark.
It's all about the money.
And going back to the Putin thing too, he is one of the, one of the few guys,
something you would never see.
I mean, there's other presidents that we've had where you,
that you could actually watch an interview with them talking for more than two minutes.
That's not chopped up where they're actually like explaining their ideas
and how they run their country and explain their policies and how they're set up
and what their beliefs are.
I mean, Obama was a kind of, kind of an articulate guy.
You could kind of like, you'd watch him talk.
He was very intelligent.
I mean, he had the beard to be.
He had the, I mean, he fucked up international, his international policy was fucked up,
beyond belief.
But if you look at Putin compared to some of these other people that we've had recently,
especially Biden, and I don't know if you've ever seen the Oliver Stone interviews
where he went over there.
He, he spent like a total of.
With Putin?
Like four or five months back coming back and forth interviewing Putin.
And it was a sit down with him and where he was explaining this stuff.
And Putin was explaining all of his policies, what he's been doing,
what his view is of Russia.
He calls himself the son of Russia.
And it was interesting because you could hear what this guy actually thinks,
why he thinks that way and what he believes in.
Again, I'm not saying that he's like some saint or anything, but it's,
it says something when you can listen to a guy or a quote unquote dictator running a country,
listen to what he, him explain what he's doing and why he's doing what he's doing.
But do you approve of the things that he said already negative or are they positive?
Because the Oliver Stone documentary made a lot of sense.
Everything he said, everything he said made total sense to me.
It seemed very logical.
I think he's a real guy.
He's real.
He does seem like a real guy.
He's a real guy.
And I think he changed, he did, I think he's a good, he's good at whatever he does.
And I think when they changed the ideology after 92 from communism to the Russian Federation,
I think he changed as well.
And actually, I know some Russian people and I have a brother who deals a lot with businesses
in Russia and he is a loved person.
Yeah, the Cold War was really, that's kind of the point where America went off the rails
as far as the military industrial complex and us developing nukes, the whole nuclear race.
And I'm reading this book now all about the creation of DARPA.
And all the crazy shadowy war technology that's been developed in getting all the top scientists
around the country and the world, Operation Paperclip, getting all these Nazi scientists
to develop all this stuff.
Werner von Braun, he was the one.
Werner von Braun, yeah, he was almost the head scientist of DARPA.
But he was the head of NASA.
He built NASA.
Right, yeah.
Because he had all these, and he built all these, took all these German people with him.
Yeah, that book's fascinating too.
You should see what it says on Werner von Braun's tombstone.
You should actually.
I heard what it is.
What is it?
I think it's Psalm 19 one or something like this, that the Earth is stationary and
we live on a flat Earth.
He said we live on a flat Earth.
And all this NASA shit is all this.
What?
Well, he said the Earth is stationary.
Stationary.
The Earth doesn't move.
Can you find that?
Werner von Braun.
Just pull up his tombstone.
Werner von Braun's tombstone.
A picture of it.
I would love to see this.
And that's the whole thing, that supposedly NASA is a hoax and they use those 19 billion
dollars of budget every year.
What do they do?
Where do they go?
He said NASA was a hoax.
Well, he didn't say it in those words, but that's what.
Somebody else interpreted it.
There is a lot of people that believe that NASA is a hoax.
I'm one of them.
Why do you believe it's a hoax?
You tell me that they went to the moon with that thing made out of coat hangers and paper
clips.
Come on.
Have you seen the lunar module?
Yeah, I've seen it.
And then you tell me that Nixon called on the fucking home phone and talked to them on the
phone on the moon.
We cannot even get connections in West Virginia and that he goes from the moon.
That's his tomb?
There is Psalm 19 one.
Now look up Psalm 19 one.
Look, I'm going to be honest.
I'm not completely sold on the moon thing.
I don't know what's going on, but yeah, the moon video did look fishy.
And I always question why we haven't been back since.
Because you cannot go on the moon.
Okay, I've had people on here telling me that the moon was man made.
So I don't know what's true, but I mean, we have satellites orbiting the earth.
Do we?
Yeah, I've had an astronaut in here who's been in outer space.
Come on.
I had a monkey driving a taxi cab.
So it doesn't mean anything.
There's astronauts on TV.
They say they're astronauts.
You think there's no satellites?
I don't think there's satellites like they tell you they are.
They spin around the whole earth and all that stuff.
There's shit floating up there on weather balloons, most likely, but there is not.
I don't think there is those.
Where do you produce?
Try to find out where you can build a satellite.
What company builds satellites?
Try to find out.
Okay, NASA, all of our space programs, Tesla launching rockets, there's people that have
been on the space stations who have gone on the space shuttles and orbited the earth and talked
about it.
Why would they be?
What is the purpose of lying about that?
Well, that's a long other show that we have to do.
Well, the gain is that long story short is that we do not come from a big bang.
We are not a coincidence.
We live in an intelligent environment.
That means that we are created by somebody and you cannot be a big bang theory and it
will come from monkeys and deny the existence of God.
When you make the earth round, there is no God.
Because the flat earth, supposedly, we are the only people.
There's no aliens.
We're created by God.
The whole system is created by God.
There's that's in the firmament and the earth is it's not moving.
There's actually a lot of legitimate credible physicists that are actually questioning the
big bang theory now.
It's all a theory.
That doesn't mean the earth is flat.
All right, Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God.
The skies proclaim the work of his hands day after day.
They pour forth speech night after night.
This blame knowledge.
There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard.
Yeah, but this is actually, you have to go into the old King James version,
if you can, because this is actually already.
Right there.
Yeah, it already went.
Okay, it's the same one.
Well, I'll find it for you.
It's kind of hidden.
I'm not going to go into this.
I think this is fun.
What evidence have you seen that convinced you to believe that that's true, that the world is flat?
Well, let's think about water.
So do you think that water finds its level?
So if I have a big bucket here and I pour water in there, it's going to be leveled, right?
Yes.
Okay, so what if this bucket is as big as the Atlantic Ocean?
It's going to be level where it all depends on gravity.
Okay, well, let me ask you this.
Now, if it's not leveled, that means that there is peaks and troughs somewhere.
Let's say then, how does that water not just flow away?
Because the moon and the poles of the earth, there's gravity depending on the earth's rotation.
Sounds like a lot of bullshit.
It's a lot simpler when you go out and you look at the horizon and it's flat as heck.
It's never curved.
It's never round unless you're looking through a fisheye lens.
It's simple as that.
And you fly your drone like 1300 feet up and take a picture and it's all flat.
There is no curvature.
Have you ever seen the footage of those rockets or those balloons that go way up
into the atmosphere and everything is curved?
No.
Yes, with the ones with the...
Have you seen the Red Bull one?
Yeah, of course.
That's with the fisheye lens.
A fisheye lens.
So why are they shooting people up into rockets and they're coming down in these
pods and they're going out there?
They're pulling the astronauts out of these pods.
Because there's a $19 billion budget.
But for what?
For the money.
Why would they be trying to trick people, spinning all that?
What's the point?
What do you think all the other people are doing with you?
They're tricking you.
They're having wars in Ukraine to be able to do this and that.
Right.
But that's all for power and for the military industrial complex.
For money.
To sell weapons.
Right.
For money.
They sell it in a different way.
And to fight over resources.
Well, NASA doesn't do anything.
It's $19 billion.
But how do they...
What do they get from shooting people into...
From faking shooting people into space and bringing them down in the pods and building
these rockets?
The $19 billion to be approved by the Congress so they can get a budget for $19 billion.
They have to show something.
What else?
What about the Red Hot Chili Pepper song?
Red Hot Chili Pepper song.
Yeah.
The one that the space is created in a basement in a Hollywood basement.
The moon landing.
I don't know what song that is.
Yeah.
It's one of the most popular songs.
Well, look.
California Cation.
California Cation, the song.
Listen to the...
Space was made in a Hollywood basement?
Yeah.
And then you listen to Dave Matthews with Dodo when the Earth was flat.
And it was like a pancake and we all were afraid that we're going to fall off of it.
So we're going to let Dave Matthews man in the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
No, but those are artists.
They're telling you whether you're going to let Dr. Fauci tell you that you have to
wear a piece of fucking mask and then everybody believed that.
Science is scientism now.
Well, that's a completely different thing.
No, but it's the other opposite of can you believe Dave Matthews and can you believe
Dr. Fauci?
Neither one you can believe, but I rather believe Dave Matthews than fucking Dr. Fauci.
Wouldn't you?
I mean, no, I've clearly, you can't bring Dr. Fauci into the earthing flat.
Come on.
Stop.
No, that's no connection.
That's not fair.
But I just, I want to, I heard that, I forget where it was, but I heard that the whole flat
earthing was created on 4chan as like a troll.
This guy was trying to troll and actually some people like saw it and they started to
like take, take hold of it and started to believe it.
No, because the earth was flat for forever until the last 16 years, 600 years.
The earth became round 600 years ago.
Before that, all the astronomers told me who was the biggest astronomer of Egypt.
What do you think?
Those people were stupid and they couldn't figure out that the earth is not flat.
Why are those stars all the way, always in the same places?
Why is there celestial navigation?
If we are spinning around the axle with 1600 miles an hour, actually 1000 miles an hour,
1000 miles an hour, and then we're spinning with over 100 million miles an hour around the sun,
how is it possible that the big dipper has been there for the last 40 years?
Let's Google it.
Austin, ask Google, how come if the earth is spinning, how come we always see the same
constellations above us or the same stars?
But this is whole a cabal and everything.
Try to find something about the flat earth.
As soon as you start looking for something, they tell you that you're an idiot.
So it's cognitive dissonance, bam.
Yeah, you can fly literally over the North Pole and end up in Russia.
You can do this on the flat earth too.
You can fly straight in one direction.
You will fly all the way around the earth and end up where you started.
You can do this on the fly.
It's like a CD.
So you just fly around like this.
And you fly to Russia like that.
It's not much of a difference.
Well, then if it's a flat disk, what's under it?
It's nothing.
It's actually, they say it's a flat disk and then it has a firmament on top of it.
Yes, and then the sun and the moon are inside the firmament.
And this is all from the Bible, from the old Bible.
You gotta read the old Bible, the Hebrew Bible.
If we do this again, I'll bring materials.
Okay.
And they are online.
And how difficult it is to find anything online about reading about the flat earth,
that makes any kind of a sense.
I mean, if it's a bunch of bullshit,
just let somebody write something and don't suppress it.
Every time you pull up flat earth, you have the YouTube warning
and underneath telling you that this is bullshit.
Yeah.
Why do they have to tell you?
I agree with that.
That's silly that they do that.
Sometimes on your videos, you have like fucking things underneath.
That's something about New York.
Okay.
Well, what about ships?
How come they can sail off into the distance?
And after they get to a certain distance, they disappear below the horizon?
Because your eyes can see only so far.
If you go out here on the beach and look at Eggmond Key, I mean, from Treasure Island,
you know how you can see the gulf, the water, and then like an empty, like a white space,
and then the trees?
Would you agree that you see it?
I see this every morning because I walk the beach.
When you see what?
When you're looking?
So I'm looking, I'm looking from the beach.
I'm looking south towards Eggmond Key.
Okay.
And I see the island all the way at the end, all the way at the end.
But the island seems to be like it's floating on top of the water.
Okay.
And if a boat will approach the island, the boat will go behind that floating line
that is actually like a vibrating air and moisture.
That's why you cannot see it.
And this is what appears.
The sun does the same thing.
The sun just goes away from you.
Yeah, but you could get a telescope and look at it and still.
At what?
At a boat going off into the horizon.
All right.
And you could zoom in on it and you can see it going because I mean,
see it moving because obviously you have a telescope.
Then you can zoom in again and it still disappears.
No, it doesn't.
No, it doesn't.
There's been tests done.
All right.
Can you pull up Nikon P900, just put Nikon P900 on YouTube?
Nikon P900?
Yeah.
What is that?
That's a, I used to have that camera, by the way.
It has a 2000 optical zoom.
Did you find about the constellations?
Okay.
Because the Earth's axis points at a point in the sky around which everything appears to move,
including the stars.
In the North, this happens to be very close to the star called Polaris.
Right.
Or the North Star.
Right.
And it is constellation and it is in the constellation called the Ursa Minor or the Little Bear.
Right.
Because the Earth's axis points at a point in the sky.
It's a bullshit explanation and it doesn't mean anything.
It means because the Earth axis points at the sky, points at the sky.
So the North Star is here, that is true.
So if you take a camera, if you open up a camera lens, put it in your home,
if you have a nice camera and you have cameras, open up and do a slideshow for three hours of the sky.
What are you going to get?
Have you ever seen it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
At the North Pole.
The North Star is in the middle and all the stars are spinning around it.
Pull up like a, go on YouTube and find a video, like an animation that shows the Earth.
Not animation.
Not animation.
Animation, anybody can animation.
No, no, no.
But it'll explain why it'll show you visually why the stars say it.
Let's see what they're saying.
I know, but it's not going to be visually.
It's going to be an animation that somebody created.
Exactly.
And it's not.
Exactly.
But it's going to be an argument for the Earth being around.
Let me ask you this.
Have you ever seen with your own eyes, not heard from somebody, not use any tools?
Have you ever seen any, anything that shows that this place is curved?
Anyhow?
Or felt a movement?
You mean you can see it when you're, you can see it when
there's videos of these things going up into the atmosphere?
No videos.
I'm talking, have you experienced with your senses that the Earth is round?
Well, I can't fly up in that atmosphere myself.
I'm just asking yes or no question, so.
On an airplane?
No.
Have you, with your own senses, experienced it?
That's impossible.
How can I, how could I see it when I'm five feet, five, six feet above the ground?
Me neither.
That's what I'm saying.
I haven't seen it at this round.
But it, when I go to the ocean, it's always flat.
I haven't seen an ocean that goes on the sides like, you know, up and down.
Right.
But you don't need, so you need to see it to believe it?
Absolutely.
Don't you, are you like that?
And you don't trust any of the videos or any of the documentaries or any of history?
I don't trust any videos.
Any, no, you don't trust any history?
No, and I'll tell you, I do try to, I do trust history, but history is written by the winners.
And one thing that I learned when I was a kid, when I was coming home with my history book,
my dad used to take my history book and read it on Sunday after lunch.
And it was the most amusing book for him that he has ever read in his life.
Because it was written by the communist and it was a totally different story.
And it was a total bullshit.
And you will sit there and tell me, this wasn't true.
This wasn't true.
This is bullshit.
History is written by the winners.
Right.
But that goes for anything.
You can't really know.
I mean, no matter what you read in a book, how many books have you read?
That they're just, they're depictions of science or history.
But you haven't been there to see it with your own eyes.
That doesn't, just because you haven't seen it with your own eyes.
It's the same thing with the Holocaust.
If I haven't seen it with my own eyes, I wouldn't speak about it with being sure about it.
Right.
But you sound like you're being, you sound like you're sure that the earth is flat.
Well, because with my own eyes, it looks flat.
And actually, I would like to know what kind of a lubricant they use for this 1600 miles
or 1000 miles an hour in 24 hours.
You know, we spin like 1000 miles an hour and how there is not a single shake.
There must be some hell of a gyroscope and they must be oiling that motherfucker good.
So it doesn't shake at all.
You know, look at this, we're spinning right now with 1000 miles an hour.
Because we're moving the same thing when you're in an airplane.
An airplane is going hundreds of miles an hour.
You know, what if it goes in the opposite direction of the spin?
If it stops and goes the other way?
No, if the earth spins to the left and you go to the right with the airplane,
what does it mean?
It's going to stay in one place and the earth is going to spin underneath.
No, no, everything is relative.
If you start flying, the earth is rotating one way.
But if you fly the, that's why if you fly to California right now,
it takes an extra hour to go one way than it does the other way.
That's the wind.
The wind, the atmosphere, it's all the same thing.
I mean, there's the wind speed.
So it depends how the wind blows.
That's right.
So I mean, that's, but so you're telling me then.
So the logic is that we have the earth, then we have the atmosphere,
whatever other spheres, and then there is a vacuum.
Is this how you understand it?
Well, we have, we have the core of the earth.
We have the mantle.
I'm going bigger than that.
I'm going, so we have the globe and then we have the atmosphere around it and
everything spins together.
Right.
And then when we penetrate this with a rocket,
then we end up in vacuum, right?
There is a vacuum somewhere.
Right.
Do you agree on the vacuum?
I guess.
I mean, I'm not, I'm not a, I'm not an astrophysicist.
That the Tesla car just floats in the air because it's a vacuum.
A vacuum is, you can just push something and it goes forever
because there's no resistance.
Okay.
So a vacuum is a void.
Look, I'm not a, I'm not an astrophysicist.
This is simple.
And I asked, do you know what the vacuum is?
So you can take, I can take this can and put a pump here and suck out the air and
close it and inside would be a vacuum.
Right.
Right.
So that vacuum is a void.
It's a void of something.
This is empty.
Right.
So if I break this seal, even if the smallest hole,
that's going to suck on the air because the air wants to go into the void.
Right.
So if the earth is covered with the atmosphere, stratosphere, whatever sphere,
where, and then a vacuum starts somewhere,
how is it sealed?
Because a vacuum has to be sealed.
It's a void.
As soon as you break this-
How is our, how is the earth sealed?
Well, how is the, how is there a vacuum and where does the vacuum start?
That's my question.
I think it gradually, once you exit the atmosphere, it starts to gradually go away
because all the gases that are in the atmosphere.
I think you know that gradual vacuum, it's a void.
Something is protecting it to get-
I don't know.
I mean, that's what I'm saying is,
and here's what I'm saying.
It is a theory and everybody's entitled to believe to whatever they want to.
And it is, they say that great intelligent people will accept people to have two opposite
theories and theories and they will accept both of those theories.
So in other words, we have to learn not to, when I, when somebody says something,
and this is specifically an example with the flat earth,
maybe the earth is flat or you're an idiot.
That doesn't mean anything.
You have to, you should sit down and research it.
And usually people that research the flat earth become flat earthers.
I've watched a lot of documentaries about it
and I've listened to a lot of people talk about it and try to argue for it.
And I've never been convinced.
I think it's one of those things that people,
I think it's one of those things that people cling on to
because they get some sort of sense of community and they, they believe it
and they find other people that believe it and they, they make it a part of them.
And they can't, they cannot be convinced any other way.
Exactly. And I, and you know what, and that's, that's great.
And I'm not, I, I cannot say that I'm a hundred percent sure.
I'm really not a hundred percent sure.
But from the things that I see with my eyes and with the things that I feel with my senses
and the things that I've experienced in life and been in an airplane many times
and see it from up and down and, and with some math that I have used with Google.
I found out that a lot of those things don't drive.
And when things don't drive and somebody, when you search for something,
is somehow hidden because, you know, when you search for something, when it's hidden,
you know what I mean, right? Yeah.
So that, why hide it if it's not true?
And all the research about Flat Earth is hidden.
And everybody that says Flat Earth is an idiot.
It's already, you know, they have created this like every Russian is evil.
Kind of like the same thing. Right.
So, well, I don't believe, I don't think it's the right thing to censor people
who believe the earth is flat. That's, that's idiotic.
That's the same thing as trying to censor people for talking about vaccines.
It's people should be able to talk about whatever they want, whatever they believe in,
and they should be able to debate it. Exactly.
And let their ideas compete and let people make up their own minds.
Because when we debate, we, we both are asking questions, we're talking,
and we might be even like creating something with a total agreement between the two of us.
Right. Totally.
And that's exactly what happens when you have a debate.
That's why they call it the debate to sit down and
everybody throws in like brainstorming or whatever they call it, you know.
And that's what happens.
And for some reason, here is if, you know, if you're a Democrat and I say,
I'm a Trump guy, fuck you, you're stupid.
If you're the other way around, fuck you, you're stupid.
That's a perfect example.
Well, that's what they did this because separation, they have to separate the humans.
So once they separate, we lose our power.
We are very powerful individuals.
But here's the main thing I don't understand about it.
I understand the military industrial complex and, oh yeah, yeah.
Can you give them another water?
The military industrial complex, why does America start all these wars, right?
There's resources involved.
There's money involved.
People, you know, Halliburton, all these companies that are trying to make money
and establish power and gain resources all over the world.
Geopolitical chess game.
It all makes it, you can trace it back to where the motivations are for doing those things, right?
You can understand there's corrupt players and governments.
But why, like even with COVID-19 and these pandemics, you know, people trying to,
the government trying to take more control after 9-11, trying to implement the,
what was the act they implemented after 9-11?
What was it?
Patriot Act.
The Patriot Act, right.
You lose me at Flat Earth because what is the government's, what are they achieving
by trying to create this false narrative of the world being round?
It's not even a narrative.
It's like, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a religion, basically.
So back in the day, let me answer this question.
First of all, it's a religion.
The boy who gains from it is what I'm saying.
Who gains from it?
Controlling people.
But how are you going to control people if they think the world's round?
Because people are actually extremely powerful individuals with their thoughts because they
took all these powers away from us slowly but surely by telling you that you're a coincidence
and you come from a monkey.
You don't come from a monkey.
You're, you're consciousness.
This is just the suitcase that you have today.
When you die one day, this suitcase is going to go away and that consciousness
that gives you that energy is going to continue somewhere else.
What do you, what do you think is just going to stop?
This is what you believe?
Absolutely.
Have you seen this happen?
What evidence do you have of this?
I don't have evidence.
I believe it does.
I don't, I don't have to have an evidence to believe something myself.
Right.
I'm not asking you to believe it.
Yes.
So I do believe that.
I believe it.
But what, but what evidence, I mean, you're using, you're saying, you're saying you believe
that consciousness leaves the body.
We weren't created for monkeys.
The Darwin's theory of evolution is not real.
For example, but you're, but like what I'm saying is you believe it because you believe
it.
It's something that you've never seen or experienced with your own senses.
But then you're using the opposite argument for the flat earth theory or the round earth
theory.
You're saying that you don't believe it's round because you've never experienced it or
seen it with your own eyes and therefore you don't believe it.
Right.
Because I haven't experienced it, but I have experienced spiritual things about consciousness.
And I think I understand a lot more about consciousness than, so in other words,
But what evidence do you have?
I'm, well, it's what evidence I have.
I mean, I have, I have watched and read and, you know, people that are neuroscientists and
do things, but they are on YouTube.
They could be crooks, you know, they could be actors.
So I don't have any evidence.
I'm not saying that I have any evidence.
I also don't have any evidence that the earth is flat.
I'm just saying that I don't see it being round.
And all the evidence that I see points always towards flat.
That's all I'm saying.
I'm not saying you should believe it or not or whatever.
And then I'm tying it in with the fact that when you have the rounder, then you have
the Darwinism and then you have this big bang bullshit.
And when you have the flat earth, you have created the create God, the creator.
And if you start in the beginning of the Bible, first, then let it be light.
He creates that universe and he creates it and creates the humans.
Right now, when I talk to you, your heart is beating.
Are you beating your heart?
Who is beating your heart right now?
My nervous system.
And who is telling the nervous system what to do?
It's the human organisms, the way it works.
It's electrons.
And there is no higher power telling you what to do?
Is somebody running this thing?
Yeah, all the cells and all the atoms and all the electrons were charged.
We're electric.
But I don't know.
I'm not a biologist.
I don't look enough.
No, you don't have to be a biologist.
But that's what I'm saying is the things that are happening in your body,
you're not thinking about them.
They're happening automatically.
And they're extremely complicated.
If I cut you with a knife, after a while, that wound is going to stop bleeding
and it's going to coagulate the blood and it's going to start growing together.
Who tells that body to do that?
It's millions of years.
It's a consciousness.
It's a higher power.
You are part of that organism that you have that it's designed by somebody.
Like the plants are designed by somebody.
You know, there is bees that go on the plants and the plants spread the pollen around it.
Who the fuck talked about that?
What do you think the bees know that?
Say, let's go spread some pollen.
Who do you think it's designed by?
I think it's designed by God.
Or the creator or whoever you call him, the guy with the beard, the girl, whatever she is.
She, he, him, whatever.
So then how do you think we got here?
If you don't think that we're a part of evolution.
If we didn't evolve, we didn't evolve.
We were created by God, like Adam and Eve.
Like just like it says in that book that they were shuffling around for thousands of years.
It's in the book.
So you believe what the Bible says that we were just dropped here?
I don't believe everything that the Bible says because the Bible has been changed many times
and translated for many languages.
But I believe certain things in the Bible, yes.
I mean, I definitely believe that there is a creator and I cannot see how there is not one.
And I can also understand how, I mean, you can, you can actually control your thoughts
and you can create things through thoughts.
I mean, this is whatever you dream, this is what you get.
That's why people that live in the ghetto, they, they, they are upset because they live in the
ghetto and every day they're upset about it and they end up living in the ghetto.
But if you pack up your shit and move somewhere else
and you start believing that you belong there, you're going to belong there.
That's why I lived, whatever I lived around the world, I might have been poor,
but I always lived in a good house because I grew up in a good house.
I cannot see it less than that.
So once you get a level, you only go up.
Yeah, but wouldn't that also be an effect of psychology?
Being in like a positive feedback loop or a negative feedback loop?
When you, when you start out in poverty, that's why most people stay in poverty
is because that's all they see.
That's all they're exposed to.
And you aren't exposed to positive thinking or different ideas.
You kind of just get stuck in that negative feedback loop.
And that's why a lot of people in bad neighborhoods around the country are
True, but then you have to look into how the, how the human mind is also,
I mean, you have the ego inside you and the ego,
ego is the thing that tells you what to do sometimes.
And you can listen to the ego or not listen to the ego.
And one day when you are able to separate yourself from your ego,
then you can actually understand and be able to observe the ego from the side.
And I don't know if I can give you an example, but I can try.
For example, I was a very, when I was young, you know, I was,
I mean, I had a short fuse and, you know, we'd sit in the table.
Somebody says something, you slap them, you know, it was,
was a normal thing sometimes.
And now, because after a while, you know, you, you, you, you, you grow and you learn
and you learn from experience and you correct and then you become a different person at the end,
you know, so I wouldn't do this because there's not the right thing to do.
I mean, I'm talking when I was 15 or 16 years old, I've done the thing, but it's not a good thing.
And now I can see how I can see it from the side at a certain point,
how somebody will piss me off and I can actually, I just want to slap him,
but I want to, I'm going to contain myself and not do it because I, I know this is not the right
thing. So there is the ego tells you, the ego is the thing that always wants to buy things and do
things and, and harm you. And it's basically your subconscious mind.
Right. Exactly. And that actually is with the apple.
You know, when Adam bites the apple, then he becomes some conscious.
And I was looking at the apple logo and I was thinking, hmm, it's also a bit of apple.
Didn't that fucking phone made a subconscious of everything, Facebook and this,
you're fat, you're ugly, you're gay, whatever. Think about it. Maybe that is the logo of the
apple. Maybe you should research that. What is it? Apple phones, apple,
Apple computers as an apple with a bite in there. Right.
You're saying that was that was the apple that came from the Adam and Eve story?
In the Adam and Eve story, the snake told Adam to bite into the apple and God
told him not to do it. And when he bit into the apple,
he realized that he's naked and he became self-conscious.
Is the apple an apple? Something that means the same like Adam and Eve. I just thought about it.
So. Well, that's an interesting coincidence.
Is it? Ask, ask Google why Steve Jobs named his company Apple.
Maybe he was God. Why did he pick the logo with the bite of the apple?
That would be interesting. But anyway, so what I was saying is like,
and we got to probably cut it short soon because I got to go.
Okay. Yeah. It's almost five, 20. Yeah.
This is great. We should do another one where we talk a lot about Flat Earth.
Oh, we can talk a lot about it. That would be great.
I would love to. Yeah. You're either thinking of the future
and the future is what you perceive is going to happen that might not happen at all.
We don't know what you think. So we're not looking at you funny because you're thinking that because
we don't know what you think. What are you thinking in the past? What are you thinking?
Oh, man, I shouldn't ever like, you know, stolen this and this and I feel so bad.
And, and then, oh my God, and this is bad. And, you know, and you always like,
like a lot of people, this is the new thing that I've been observing in all these movies that you
watch. Everybody's suffering, you know. Why is there a bit in Apple as the Apple logo?
Nope. That's one of, wait, what? Nope. That's one of those logo urban legend.
Urban legends. The reason for the bite was to clarify it was to clarify it clear that the fruit
is an Apple. Oh, okay. Since with no reference at whatever.
Well, what else would it be like on ass?
Well, if it was a cherry, do they have a bite in the cherry so we know it's a cherry?
No, man, if there was no bite, people could confuse it as a cherry
because you don't take a bite out of a cherry. Even though the name of the company is Apple.
Right, exactly. That's kind of goofy. Sounds like a bullshit story to me too.
Yeah. So anyway, so the thinking in the past are things that they happen already.
They don't mean anything. They're not gonna do anything to you. They're not gonna come and bite
you or haunt you. You should never feel guilty. Right. Why would you feel guilty? Guilty of what?
I mean, you should feel guilty if you go and do something stupid and it's stupid. If you go and
so what? What are you saying? There's no reason for us to think about the past?
No, what I'm saying is that we're constantly either living in the past or in the future.
Life happens in the present. Yes. So and if you learn to live in the present
and you can start like by meditating, making that gap when you're between the thoughts,
you know, you think one thing and then you think of the next thing, but there's a little gap in
between. Yeah. And if you can, if you can take this gap and think about it and make it a little
bit bigger and a little bit bigger and a little bit bigger by not thinking of anything, having an
empty mind, that's the present. Yeah. And when you're in the present, you're at 100%. Yes. And
that's why you like surfing, right? Yes. So when you surf, you're in the present. Not thinking
about anything. Right. Because you, you have to pay attention. Right. And you're not thinking about
the bills or whatever happened in the last night. You know, you're surfing. Right. And this is the
addiction to the moment of the present. That's why you're addicted to this. Like I'm addicted to
play pickleball. Because when you play pickleball, yeah, you're in the zone. You're flowing. Yes.
And you know, you know, you know, also, you know, when you're right now, we're not thinking about
anything, we're just talking, right? We're because we're, well, when we're talking, we're thinking
of the conversation that we're talking about. But as soon as you stop, you can think like,
oh, what a dumbass, you know, whatever, you know, so I mean, you can, I'm not thinking, trust me,
my mouth's just moving. But all these thoughts come. And then the other thing is,
we're putting all these people in boxes, you know, you walk down the beach, you know,
let's look, she's fat, ugly, blonde, fat, black, green. There's a lot of the thinking,
you got to work with the thing that we're talking about this zone. And if you can,
if you can learn to live in that zone, not only when you're surfing by making the gap
bigger, and you can do this through meditation, then life becomes amazing. And then you start
understanding life. And life is very simple. It has its ups and downs. Unfortunately,
there's one of the downs. There's not just, you know, smooth. But it depends how you take the
downs. I agree. So let's finish on this note and we'll do another one. Thank you very much.
I love the story. And I'm sure a lot of people, a lot of the listeners will love it as well.
I hope so. Thank you for your time. And we'll definitely do episode two down the road.
All right, sounds good. All right. Good night, everyone.
