Three two, can I get a fuck? Yeah
Space we finally got you on the podcast. What is up, brother? I just want to thank Jesus. Oh look at the booger hanging out his nose
So much. I'm just saying I know that's a joint. That's a joint. Okay. Okay
Joint in the joint. Yeah, cuz he actually lit it up and smoked it right after he pulled it out his nose
So what's up fucker? What are you are you filling in for the Pope today? What's going on with the Pope?
So yeah, this is Pope space. Well, what actually happened is
Shane Lee is under the weather and I got his girlfriend to steal his costume
And I'm wearing it. Yeah, cuz he was should have been in jail last night because he was exposing himself to everybody with his
So he was the flashing Pope
Exactly. Yeah. Thank you
Oh, yeah, so does he know you took the costume? No, he was sleeping. He knows his girlfriend took the costume
She tried to send me in again. I'm like, no, this ain't gonna work
So she got it. Yeah, I did it to you. Yeah, I had to go get another drink and then while I was getting a drink
All of a sudden this walla great. Oh
Awesome. Holy Jesus. We got a girl in the studio. It's happening
Jesus
It's working. Yeah, what's your name darlin?
You met her before. Yeah, but she's got the super sexy costume. Yeah, she does. I don't Halloween
She might need the Pope out the gold you polite be careful. I'm just saying trust me. I'm a doctor. I would never cheat on you
Hope the Pope's horny. Yeah
Time out
It's alive in the memories. Yes. Oh my god. So dude, it's great to have you on here space. Yeah, I love you
Dan, I've been doing it. Yeah, I love you, bro. What is the Pope of Madeira Beach been up to?
I've been ice and boats taking out fish keeping the frickin show going. Yeah, fuck. Yeah, it else
Can't everybody can't go fishing somebody's got to do the dog. I've done it 33 years
So, yeah, I like to sit at home. I like to look at beautiful women like Lexie and that are y'all
No, I'm married is better than I don't get much trouble
But just saying hey, you know
I'm home and I'm enjoying it and
And I'm being very well taken care of not the best like a
Migrant worker. I you know, I make about migrant worker wages and I live like I'm I there's probably migrant workers in this country that
That aren't even citizens that live better than me, but it keeps the industry going
Yeah, cost versus, you know, you know what I mean? Yeah last time we caught up with you on the
for people out there who haven't seen deckhands yet space is one of the
Original original deckhands 30 years, baby. Yeah, and last time I was with you
You were living on an island. Yes out in the inner
Awesome, that was a lesson. Are you still out there? No, thankfully to the
Concrete the cops gave me a seven-day warning that to move off the island before
They would start writing me more tickets because I already paid
218 dollar keep them without a permit. You're not allowed to camp without a permit in Pinellas County
Where I'm born and raised. Thank you Jesus. Just putting it out there
Got it. That's the law. Yeah, whatever. I can't find it. Yeah
And so is that because the cops saw the documentary? Yes, really?
They had me before they gave me two tickets to year
I lived on there a year when I first the first three months after three months of living on the island
I started out with the blanket. Yeah mosquitoes and rodents jumping all over top of me
That's when I went on a killing spree not they rode and ate your Twizzlers, right?
That's what made me go off because we had a little thing going on. Yeah, you're like you got to be respectful
We had a treaty going. Yeah, you don't fuck me. I don't fuck with you
That's right. So then they ate them and you went on the hunt. They ate a hole through my tent went for my twizzlers
Then I was like, yeah, okay. No more. Mr. Nice guy. Yeah, so anyway
Whatever so what did you do after the island?
The island I went to a 17 million dollar piece of beach property and moved in immediately
Frank and where they're waiting to develop like
Who knows how much money though? I lived there for a year and a half
And you asked me Dan asked me to see it with our beautiful Lexie. He's like, oh
Ready for season two. I like yeah, well, I'm not taking there Dan because the last time he could but that's reality
but
You can get arrested, but I like yeah, but my reality is not getting arrested. Yeah, you know, yeah
So I'm not putting you down. No, it's okay, but I lived there for a year and a half until
The southern offshore fishing. No, no, that's Bobby space yet. We don't want to talk about that that
The king of the beach King of the beach. Oh, I got toasting. Yeah. Oh, it's a party
Cool party
Way cool. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I took some LSD that night. Oh, yeah, and I went back to my
17 million dollar property that somebody else owns that I ain't paid taxes
I lived there for a year and a half after I get kicked off the island
So what was it just a piece of beachfront land? Yes, very developed secluded
undeveloped like condos going up there the condos everywhere. Yeah neighbors are cool. Yeah until
I
Lit a lighter and then accidentally the place went up in flames. Oh shit all that on their brush
It was like a really windy day. Yeah, I was like, oh, I launched it. I was all tripping. I'm like, I
was looking for something and
then
It lit up and it went
Like oh, I don't think I could stomp that out anymore. I was like, oh, I gotta get out of here
So I walked off and I went like 300 yards away
But it burned out because there's only so much stuff to burn out there and it'll be wow much more lush because every time you get a burnout
You get slash a burn you get the
Fertilized the ground everything grows back faster and quicker. Yeah, so it's not a bad thing
No, it's like nobody got but the neighbors kind of got pissy than anyone. I'm watching couldn't go back and live there
Right, so I got my new secret spot
That I'm not gonna burn down
No more we want to expose it. Yeah, it's a
Cool spot for a lot of information. You can't get in trouble for staying there
Where where you're at now where you're staying right now? I don't know I'd city cold might frickin go against it
Yeah, but I'm not staying on the boat. I got a cool place. I got Christmas lights. I got a DVD player
I got a fan
I'm set up. Fuck. Yeah, I first started sleeping on a concrete and then as gradually it's been six months
I've been living there and everybody's cool with that. It's all good. I'm kind of like the night security guard kind of guy
Yeah, I'm not a good security guard because everyone's my friends, right?
I don't want to the nicest security guard ever
Yeah, what you know, but still I will fucking say something. Oh, yeah, people can be idiots, right?
Yeah, you shaved the beard you shaved the hair so now no one here. No, I'm the pope
You're the pope. You're the fucking pope. So this is like space 2.0 version 2. Yes, the new version
Well, you didn't say 5.0. Hey, I'm not a Mustang
So we had Shane on here last week or two weeks ago. Yes a couple weeks. Yeah, he switched up his drink
He doesn't drink the bucket. He does drink bush. Well last time I was with him. He's a rum bum
Run now he wants rum. Oh, yeah, but you you stayed
Stay true to do to the Mountain Dew and vodka one God one drink fuck. Yeah, I haven't even put anything in my cup yet
but I will
I will right now actually
Yeah, I'm about
Yeah, those and code red Tito's and thank you Lexi for coming in tonight. I really appreciate it. Yes, we do. Oh
My god, I feel so blessed. So you got a lot of fans out there, man
And we post videos and I'll just get a ton of comments asking about you and Shane
Yes, what do you guys been up to and when is season 2 and what's coming next? Wow?
Man, they love you out there on the internet. They want to see more of you
So we got to do it. Awesome. I have no idea
Or not if you Google more than three times a day you could be a millennial
I beat Google three times, you know when you get them questions that you don't get the answer to yeah, have you ever experiences or am I just
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sometimes they'll have some fucked up answers that you're not sometimes they don't have the answer
Google you stumped Google. I've stumped Google three fucking times fucker. Really? I'm just saying Google ain't God
This is your God. Oh my god. Hey
Holy Jesus. I love you repent repent. You are the man. He's got a beard like I used to have what I used to be
Yeah, look, we got it on the TV. Oh my god. Oh, look at that. Look at that be a bag of dope
How long did you have the cosmic cocoa bar? Yeah? Oh, yeah, you bring any of those today?
That would be cool, but
They need to soup them up a little they were kind of wimpy not as good as the Amsterdam cocoa bars
Yeah, just saying what um what?
What was I just gonna fucking ask you what?
Have you and have you and Shane been you still hanging out with Shane a lot? No, no
Like separate and he's he's doing his dead fish pick up right? Yeah, you guys
Yeah, which is a good thing because God this beats spins. It's fucked up. It's the longest ever in my life
Of red time and you've been right tight. How long have you been here? 51 years 50 miles County? Yes
On and off the beach my parents live like seven miles from probably 10 miles from here
Yeah, but in mid-air beach. There's two points. It's seven miles no matter which way you go
Yeah, to my parents. Oh, so why do you think it's so bad this time?
I have no idea. I don't give a shit. It's just there. Maybe it's to keep Shane Lee in a job
They needed Shane Lee to get a job. Yes, it's God found one for him. Yeah, I was looking after Shane Lee oh
So one of the your episode of deckhands just hit a million views on YouTube. Holy Jesus. Thank you father
Have you had people come up to you? I mean are you guys are like local legends around here for sure?
Everybody was talking to you saying I recognize you or do they not recognize you?
No, a lot of people do but I don't even recognize that they're recognized me for that
I just because I sit and watch car. I like to look at beautiful women every day going to work and whatever they're doing
Yeah, so I don't know whether it's you know, it's nice to have like
You know see the same people all the time. Yeah, they change so much on the beach people come
It's like I could see people on vacation turns. Yeah, you know some come down every time the same time a year snowbirds
Yeah, and in some people whatever because they did the time-share stuff out there and they bought time-share
So they're forced to come down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'll just say it, but there's some really cool people and
And I I
Bet some people took a picture is
Whatever it's really neat. It's
Only a few bad comments like one guy wanted to beat me up the other day like I said, I'm going to do a podcast. He's like
I'm just getting he's from Baltimore. I'm from here. Right. Yeah, don't tell me what to do
Right. He's like don't be going in and begging the beach and selling out the beach and I'm like what fucker
Look
Let's look at New York look at Atlanta. Yeah killing drugs
We're on Madeira
Madeira Beach is like kindergarten for Ken. Really? Come on. I'm gonna say come on
I'll put a Madeira Beach on the map place on the world. Hell. Yeah, I'm gonna say the safest place you could come on vacation, right?
You know
You know and this guy was giving you shit for coming on the podcast. Yeah, he was like I was like really didn't come on
But I'm just good you know like the world's not gonna collapse because I just came on podcast for one night
Right right saying what I said, you know what I told him
Tell the truth Shane the devil
A lot of a lot of people on YouTube a lot of people on YouTube will like leave a comment
Saying some shit like oh you guys should interview the blue collar businessmen on the fishing boats the the people with families and kids who?
Who take care of themselves you got instead of filming these scumbags like Shane Lee in space. It's fucking stupid. Thank you and
It's like yeah, we wouldn't we would do that, but that's fucking boring. These guys are interesting
You know these guys guys keep it real all black collar
So if you want to get racist with that blue collar crap, yeah, bring it on fuckers cuz I work just as hard
That's right
And I help more Negroes in this fucking county in this world and Colombians
I bought more cocaine than you bought
I've put shoes on more people's families feet than you have with your one little child your little three four child
I've been taking care of multiple families
That I've already seen thank you. Jesus. Thank you. They man. They're amen. Just saying yeah, that's fucking awesome
I can take their they can take their blue collar. Yeah, shut up their ass. Yeah, I'm blue collar all the way
I just I'm all the way to blackouts personally like a white collar, but yeah, you got white on right now
Pope life. It's like reverse Pope
Supposed to be black over white or whatever
So when's the last time you went fishing? I think it was April I get that I
Marked it when I went under the trailer. I live under the trailer like a dog right now. Yeah, that's my house
I don't pay rent. It's really good
But fucking I'm set up fucking pretty damn good. I don't think I want to take a chick under there
Yeah, the chick comes in there. I'd have to be scared
Oh
Something suspicious here. I don't know but fucking any chick that come under that trailer. He's got to be a special girl
She's a keeper. Oh, this thing bounces. Yeah
So you're not fishing no more what's the reason you what why haven't you been fishing like is it what's that?
What happened you when fishing my attitude as it did
Conform with everybody's attitude because it's a small confined area
You have to get along with the people you work with you have to so you're not getting along with some of the captains and yeah, you know
Some I love everybody there right so just
Whatever it gets a little crazy sometimes if you get the right people to work with it goes so smooth
It's so easy if you don't it's the worst job in the world
Yeah, the right people any job any job where you work you work with the right people
The job is pleasant to go to everything you do is a pleasure
You get with the wrong people or maybe I'm the wrong guy that time, you know, it's what you believe in, you know, the whole people, you know
So I don't want to go into it. But yeah, anyway, it's a really fucking taking a break from fishing for a while
Yeah, until I get the right attitude then I'll go fishing go back fish more than you miss it
No, I don't I either I went out the other day to tow in a boat because this weekend one of their
Transmission went out. That's how I get the split lip because I had to do mechanical yoga
To get in the position why one arms here and you got to reach under here to get this bolt
Yeah, I split my lip on the frickin
Transmission line frickin or whatever it was fun
But I went on the boat I felt
Every time I go out there. It's like it's a health kit. That's like you get sober
No drugs. Yeah, just feel good man. It's like on top of the world
but
anyway
Then there's the then you come back. No, the drugs. No, no, I don't bring the drugs out
Everyone's well brings them out. I don't give a fuck about I go out there and clean up
You get powerful you get fucking healthy. Yeah, you come back good. Yeah, when you get when you get back
That's what it's like
Fuck it
Yeah, yeah, that's pretty sickening like I'd rather be with women, but we're outnumbered
My men there's enough women on this planet. Yeah, so that's why I got a lot guys go to alcohol drugs because
There's none of what enough women to satisfy our appetite unless you don't mind sharing
Yeah, we need more women out here. Yeah, it's true. You know and God I went to Canada
We had Hollywood Kim. She was a woman woman around here fishermen. Yeah vodka Kim you called her vodka the third vodka Kim
God bless her. Yeah, rest in peace to Kim. Yes
Yes, that's sad that she would even believe in Jesus after her father did what right?
She said her dead tour. It's gotta be tough. He must have been religious
Yeah, religious about getting fricking pussy
Just saying
That was a pretty easy story. You know how much damage you're gonna do, you know, yeah, I'm just saying some people don't care
The guy was a cop. She said her dad was a cop. Holy Jesus. I didn't know that. I didn't know that. He's a police officer
Whatever. She did her shit, but I don't know what happened to her. Who knows I'm not judging her, right?
She didn't have a little bit of belief in Jesus. So hopefully she'll get taken in, you know, you know
And that's kind of hard to believe in Jesus after your father fucked you and it's supposed to be a father
Loving religion. It's all about the father and then he get the power to his son and blah blah blah
So that's gotta be screwy, but she hung in there, you know, yeah, who knows?
That would be cool. Did you ever fish with her?
Yeah, I went crabbing with her. Did you grab traps together? Yes, I did. No way. What was that like? Pretty cool
She's fucking cool chick. She's a badass. She can kick any man's ass, too
That's what you said. Fucking head chicken. Like you talk shit to her
See, you better have a pocket full of
Kryptonite or you better fucking back down boy. Yeah, she'd kick her ass. Yeah, she seems like she would. Yeah, she's cool
She was cool as hell when we get somebody, but you know when girls get up and you gotta knock them back down
Yeah, fucking the same. Mm-hmm in a nicest way possible. I like strangling them personally
They love it. Yeah, I never feel good. Take it easy Pope. Yeah, I've never feel good punching a girl
But strangling them is the way to go. No, thank you. Happy medium. Yes
No one gets hurt
So the other day when we met up with you, you were telling me that you did some traveling too. Yes
Oh, but traveling what what was the story? Where you been? Where'd you where'd you go?
Well, I've been to Grenada Dominican. This is a good day. This is all since we filmed the last
Yes, ever since we filled the last when Shane's
First one come out. I was on my way to Grenada, which was a disastrous trip, but I got paid. Thank God
Yeah, for a game
So somebody just one of the captains hit you up and they're like, do you want to go to Grenada and help me out?
Yeah, yeah, I gotta take a boat to Grenada. I just might I've been done three trips
That was my third trip probably my last trip. I would go down there again. They're cool people down there
but
He got pretty scary. I did 40 days of the Caribbean and I
Hit K cell bank at five knots the same time that the baseball player and from the Miami
Whatever that team is. I don't know. I'm devil rays. Yeah
One of the players was on a boat in Miami
He he had he had the jetty at 35 miles per hour and died when I had a cell bank
Yeah, but no, he died. He died. He's dead done. Oh, yeah, but I hit case. I'll make a five knots slower
You go the more chance you ever survive it
And what what is K cell bank K cell bank is a little reef out in the middle of the
It's kind of a late a caution kind of Caribbean on your way to the Bahamas Cuba and Dominican Republic
It's just out there. It is these rocks in the middle of nowhere
And I was at the wheel and I hit him dead on
Holy what was that like?
So what happens when you run into that? Okay, it was like this
Holy fucking shit, holy fucking shit my cat wakes up. He's like put it in reverse
Oh
There's like a nose print of our boat it caved in and we we didn't go back to marathon we came out of marathon
How bad does that fuck the boat up?
Fucking you could still drive it though. Yeah, it was cracked all the way six inches above the waterline
And about crushed in the whole front of the boat. I put in a
Luckily my captain as much of a douchebag as he was. Yeah had me hook up
The forethought to hook up another pump an emergency pump with a hose in it
And I'll wire it up ready to go and he does have to hook it on the batteries
Yeah, I gave him credit for that nice. Otherwise, they don't give him credit for much
Because whatever I'm not going there. I told him we were nine miles off course
When I took the wheel I go captain. We're nine miles off course like
But that whatever you thought was he drunk or what?
Fucked up. Yeah. Yeah. Well, so that's fair enough. Whatever, but I'm not gonna go into the whole boring technical
Right, where you can push the thing, you know, anyways your course basically
You hit a fucking automatic GPS. Yeah, buddy. You correct your course. I'm gonna just give this. Well, this is a real
Okay, dumbasses
Okay, you could push your little fucking button. Yeah, and I'll tell you're on course
So when the next guy comes up to take the watch it looks like you're on course, but you're not on course
It corrects the course
You're over here. You're supposed to be going over here, right now
This dickheads been going this way the whole time now. He pushes the buttons and I'll give you a new course this way now
You're over here
You're supposed to be over here, right? Yeah, it says you're on course. It corrects your course
You're gonna go that way, but now you're way over here
Yeah, and what's in between here and there that you're not even supposed to be in that area which I was which I told them about but
Night night termite. So this was like how far offshore is this Bank of Rocks that you hit?
Probably like 70 miles off a marathon. He miles off shore
Yeah, probably 70 to 90 miles off a marathon key and we rode that fucker all the way we were gonna go in
Some Haitian little frickin island. I forgot what it's called. It's like whatever we're gonna the minute or about then we went all the way in the
When word passes through Cuba, which is scary as fuck
Like the first time I ever put on a fucking life vest in my life. Really? Yes
Oh, well like scared then we pulled in the Haiti which is really fucking scary because Hilary Clinton
Didn't not do a good job down there. They did put a good dock in thank you Hilary Clinton and the Clinton family
For a buy-in St. Mark's boat dock
No, no, it's a commercial like big boat. Hey, but it's whatever. I'm just saying thank God
They put some money in down there because that is a if you can
Make Haiti a great place you got to be the best person in the world
But they made yeah, it's Hawaii and Japan volcanic islands act great places. Yeah, just same. I
Don't think the French are the best fucking politicians in the world
Just so it was pretty rough in Haiti
Yeah, Haiti is brutal frickin God bless those people they need help fucking I gave them everything I could and they were asking us for water
I needed water from them. They wanted to get water off our boat. I'm like
What I've been at sea for 10 days and we got no water. They're asking us for water, dude
That's scary. Yeah, that's not good when you pull up. That's fucking scary
Not good. I had candy. That's a good thing. I gave a candy to the kids
Yeah, that works good whenever you go wherever in the world bring candy for the kids. Hell. Yeah, just say it
Yeah, I'll try as every pace of the dollar just give them candy. Yeah
Just say it I've been to a lot of poor countries in this world and I don't go when I go to other countries
I don't go to the rich place. I go to the working areas the ghettos
Poverty, yeah, we're trying to bring them a means to make more money. You know, that's cool
That's cool. You do that a lot of people don't do stuff like that. Yeah, I'm getting paid, but it's not great pay
It's just enough, you know
Have a little drakey drakey come back home if I don't give it all the way when I'm there
Yeah, okay, and you guys were on your way to wear again
Grenada, you made a pit stop in Haiti pit stop in Haiti and Marathon. Oh God, I don't even want to go in a
Truly boring horrible and Dominican Republic, which is actually cool. Yeah, but my captain
Whatever God bless us. Oh, he's dead now
He's dead. Yeah, we went to say Koi where I killed the town in Guana because we didn't know food fuck
Yeah on camera, but I had to sneak it. How'd you kill it with a
Bandit paddle one of the paddles that go off a bandit reel. Yeah, it's like a fiberglass paddle
Well, like one of the guys in that thing's like point out they go out of like cool
So I went up try to be friendly when I mean would be friendly. I went back to the boat grab the paddle
Like get one more chance
Are we front?
You want done they're doing it cracked them over the back of the head
Then I noticed there were cameras everywhere. It was like the freaking the
Dock where all the people come in with their cruise ships. Yeah, yeah, oh shit
And I'm like there's cameras everywhere
So I grab them by the tail and I kind of put them by my side and I go to the boat
Toss them like that on the boat, then I scan them clean them. I ate them
Oh, I put them in the oven at 375 degrees with a fucking pot of Spanish fries
Because that's all I have with the leftover. We were running out of food. I've been out at sea like
2030 days
Yes, we only went out to go we were
Posted up for two weeks. That was what the trip was supposed to take
Yeah, but because my captain who wants to take somebody's personal boat and go on his own
Freakin tour, you know, they're paid for it
But he don't pass any money onto the crew. He might give you a couple beers or something
So this guy's just trying to take a vacation with you. Yeah
Yeah, and and whoever owned the boat to hire us. Yeah, and he goes runs around all these islands and gets paid for it
Yeah, and what the fuck and I'm getting fucked the whole time
I'm like, I hope I get a paycheck when I get back. You're fucking skinny iguana is just to fucking feed yourself
Oh, yeah, it's pretty good a little tough, but how did it taste? Good like chicken like chicken
I've never wanted a little tough a little good. I think if you slow cooked it it would come out better
But it was very good. I was impressed
So so then where'd you go after that? St. Croix?
We straight ahead straight in for grenade after that was the last stop after we passed Puerto Rico
Because I wanted to go there's the Mona Lisa's path. I don't know if it's Mona's pass
I called Mona Lisa, but that's going through Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic
Yeah, we're out of the way where it passed which is much windward pass which is much more dangerous between Cuba and Haiti
Which is cool. It's like prehistoric
waiting for
pterodactyls to come out of the sky and grab you it's like
Going to Haiti is oh
So what happened after you you killed an ate the iguana? Yes, and then what where'd you guys go after that went to Grenada?
Yeah, that was the destination
Grenada, how was it there?
It's cool. Yeah, I found a really good Chinese restaurant fucking really. Yes, and they serve what it's called
It's yours. Yeah
Yours is still up there. Jesus Christ. What's the name my red cup?
I'm trying to say it's they call a conch here
But down there it's not come party. That's the drink. Oh, that's the pimp all to get to so you got a fucking Chinese restaurant
That's a step above killing eating wild iguanas. Yes
Definitely, and they had really good food that goes down really good. It's really out of place, you know
Yeah, for sure. Chinese. It's all color people. Why is Mohammed? They told me I'm colored. I'm white. So I'm colored. Yeah
You're the minority there, but yeah, Chinese are my very big minority and there's BS. Oh
Yes
Yeah
And then so what did you guys do when you're in Grenada? Oh
I see Chinese food
Wait for my plane ticket to get out of there. Oh, you're a fly home. Yeah, I got my little French curls or whatever
Yeah, fly home. I went to JFK
And I had to run through the airport like OJ because my plane was late and all that stuff
That was really cool. So the customs officer was really cool. They're not like the one in the Bahamas. So
Anyway, when was when were you in the Bahamas last year? I went to this is a separate trip. Yes, okay separate cuz
sometimes when I'm not fishing I deliver boats
to other countries so they can
Profit like fishing boats. Yeah, they buy boats from us and then they can you know bring money in their community
Yeah, it's a good thing. Oh, yeah, I go to the ghettos. I go to the I don't go to the rich places where you know, you know
I went to Panama. I went I wasn't staying at the hard rock cafe, you know, I did go there
Just to check it out. There is one there. Yes. All right, you know, and there's a trump tower
I went to Trump Tower and I should fuck. Yeah, Panama and Panama. Yeah, you know the Panama Canal thing
Yeah, Trump's got his own tower down there, too. Of course he does and I won my dollar back
But I left cuz they didn't have smoking in the casino. How can you gamble without smoking? Yeah, drinking
I'm just saying if I'm gonna fucking gamble. I want to be smoking like a fiend
Absolutely
Just saying so tell me what you were doing in the Bahamas, which part of the Bahamas were you in?
I was in Nassau, Bahamas. I got took a flight from here to Toronto and I went in the newfoundland
Mm-hmm. It's just a new Finland. Amen some chick from Newfoundland, too
Or boy from whatever that was kind of freaky, but whatever anyway, and I went to Nova Scotia and picked up trap material
We come to my first time in Atlantic was really I was really scared. God bless me. It was a beautiful trip summertime trip July
I went to Nassau and
The poop hit the fan
What so what happened? Oh
Holy geez. Well, we brought this boat down
We didn't go to customs so they are pissed about that we parked on some dock instead of the customs doc
So they're pissed about that. Yeah
I'm supposed to fly out in two days. Give me my money flying me up
Well, this boat's too big the guys that bought it didn't have a dock to place it
So I'd hire up some
Rastafarian guy that claims he's a devil
For a week. I'm not getting paid for this
I'm spending my money that they gave me that I'm supposed to be out of this country, right?
Which was good. I got to meet a lot of straight people and all that and good, you know, oh cool. There's that clamshell
That place was sick. Oh my god, but anyway
So Nassau so how long were you there before I was a week at first until I did to prison two weeks in
Prison in Fox Hill prison in Nassau. Yeah, well, how did you fucking end up in there? I?
Tried
Exercise my right to not be hindered in the customs line, which there was only three people online
So I got why am I being hindered they handed me over the Po Manian police or not paying a mania behind me in police
But whatever. Yeah, I'm like really for what though you had it been
What was it what I don't know if I said half word or not reason. Yeah, I
Tested them. They don't like me maybe because I had long hair in a beard. Okay. I don't know
He's a Polish officer Polish American
Zinski or something shit like that. I don't know maybe he wanted to get booted out at Bahamas
He didn't want to be in the Bahamas anymore. Maybe thought I was somebody special to get him a job somewhere in like Hawaii or some shit
Yeah, but
Bucking he handed me over to be me in police. Oh, and I was like you're a fucking pussy
Yeah, what the fuck I did to Bahamian police says you can't say that
I'm like what but he's a fucking pussy. So every time I said fucking pussy. That was a $60 fine
Every time and how many times I don't know they didn't know the charges kept adding up
So you're you're wearing a tab up on that one whatever be by the time I got our custody
$2,500 I was sentenced to seven months in jail and I don't think I would have lived
To see that seven months in jail. I don't think I would have lived through it. Maybe maybe I don't know
Maybe they kept me in protective custody or something
But I don't think I would have lived so how long were you stuck in there?
I was only there two weeks and I spent two days in an immigration center after that
Which is really cool. They had all the Haitians and then frickin Chinese all the people that try to you know
Break it through Trump's frickin wall. Yeah
Tear it down. Yeah, I fucking went down in Germany. It will go down in America fuckers
You're gonna be as racist as you want, but people have treated me good in other countries
They could have killed me wipe me out and I'm gonna thank Jesus for that
as I said the fucking my prayers I've been I've walked back from Nicaragua to fucking
America I've been in some fucked-up shit in these other countries I go down with these boats and
Fucked-up shit happens. Yeah, so just saying that I've made it home every time they had to kill anybody
not everybody has the
The wherewithal that you have to survive not everybody has the instincts like you surely do you not everyone
Turrets that some some some tourists don't know what the fuck they're doing when they go down to these places
They don't know how to deal with people like that you
Helped out with all a lot of different walks of life. You believe in love. You can make it anywhere. Amen to that
I'm saying that the loving is the way to go, but you want to get shitty. They'll get shitty right back
That's right. That's right. I'm gonna be some loving
Loving is the way to make it in this world. That's gotta be positive. That's true
I wouldn't be wearing a pop hat if it wasn't for that fucking right
Just saying put it out there love it
You want to travel don't travel this world unless you're in love or you got a lot of frickin money?
Yeah to pay the fuckers off, you know just saying yeah, you better love somebody
Are you fucking but that didn't work out when you went to Fox Hill prison?
That's supposed to be like one of the most inhumane prisons in the world third third the third most third most I
Think there's worse prisons, but yeah, it was pretty crappy. What was it like?
I mean you're probably few white people in there, but not many like probably one of the five white guys and
Yeah, it's like fifteen sixteen hundred overcrowded
It's only meant for like nine hundred people and they got that's how all prisons are everywhere
Yeah, so what what is it like in there? It's real dirty in there. I mean, I'm in
Prisons are alive
Rotates like this fucking big running around I slept on a cardboard box. That's the lucky god
I was like a blessing to sleep on the cardboard box. Oh god. Yeah fucking always like rat infested rat infested big giant
Like it running around from you can't drink the water and shit. You can't drink the water
That's
It's it's brutal and you only get the flesh to toilet one time a day
So you're in a cell with three to six guys
It's only a two-man cell right which they clog up three to six guys in a and which gets real brutal
You know
Thank you Dominican Republic fucking I was locked up with some Dominicans
And so they were really nice to me till one wanted to become my wife
Now what you know where you there got released. Thank you Jesus. What do you mean? He wanted to be your wife?
Yeah, what do you mean by that? Well, I went to court, you know, he tried questioning me
He's like trying to get they're trying to get me to be a captain or something to run people out of the country
They got busted for fraud whatever
They're like, how much would you be a captain for like I had to take $300 a day
That's the going price. All right, but not to smuggle people in and out of the country
Yeah, you know fucking fuck you. I don't even want to talk to this common
But he'd always try to get stuff out of me all the time
So I go to court and you have a meal waiting for me like
You didn't even start questioning me like that wouldn't answer the question like I save this meal for you all day and you won't
The way you treat me now like oh shit, we're about to fucking fight
Yeah, what could my other Dominican was a badass motherfucker with like 10 children. He knows how to deal with shit
Yeah, it was cool. So but oh like damn
We're gonna get down you gotta get out of there
But thank God a guard's coming like it's time to go then off to the immigration camp was was totally cool
Why do they ship you do an immigration camp though because I had to wait
To get on the plane or whatever we had to go through their customs
Whatever, so they just make you wait there. How long I only waited two days. I got really lucky
Oh, sure was another guy that got caught smuggling pot onto the cruise ship. Yeah, it's been security guard from Virginia
Poor guy. Jesus
Poor bastard. Oh my god, it was horrible, you know damn. It's a little like
like I
Don't even know just just a little
It's a little no
Yeah, I'm coming back on the cruise ship that fucker was stuck there. He was in there with me
So that was funny. Holy fuck
But like when you were in the Fox Hill prison, I know you can't drink the water in the Bahamas right now
So how do they feed you and give you water? What's a food liking? The food sucks ass. It's horrible
Yeah, I swear to die
It's
It's hard the only good thing you get is a cup of tea because it's a British
Scotland runs it. Oh, yeah. Oh, they don't buy
Yeah, Scotland it used to be the Brit Brits, but it's yeah, it's actually owned by Scotland
Whatever, but they went they went they went
Can you Google it? Well, who?
They went Scotland does the judge thing, but Bahamas went in 1974 declared their independence. So
However, that works, but Scotland is in charge of freaking the Bahamas. Okay. It used to be the United Kingdom
But it's just like the UK you driving the left-hand side of the road. Yes
Yeah, the Bahamas the Bahamas became an independent Commonwealth realm in 73
Retaining Queen Elizabeth the second as its monarch, right? Where's Queen Elizabeth from? Yeah
Fucking no, she's I think that's the UK London and all that stuff. Oh, yeah
We're gonna do
Yeah
Code red and vodka. Amen
So what did they actually feed you there grits
God, I got really sick in there too. Why was it almost was good
It was actually a big plate. I don't remember what it was
It was maybe it was corned beef one time
But it made me sick as a dog and I like I almost had this century
You know, it's crappin because you got a crap in a toilet with three guys
We all you had three guys we had for a fourth guy one day and
They only flushed the toilet once every morning
And usually a lot of prisons they don't put up be like don't want to beat your asses for farting
But every time I'd fart we'd be any other guy Dominican would be like, thank you Jesus
Yeah, yeah, it's all like we want no, you know, there was no hating going on
Well, some jails you begin to fight you get your ass kicked your legs broke fuck a beat down death
And fortunately, I was blessed with some really good
fricking
cellmates, yeah, and
Whatever so thank God you got the fuck out of there. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you
So, how did you end up getting out of there? Somebody bailed you out? Yes?
The Pruitt family bailed me out from Madera Beach and they heard you were in there. Yeah, is in Dean Pruitt
Yeah, Dean Pruitt. We interviewed him on deckhands. Yeah. Yeah, he had the all the stitches on his hand
Yeah, the guy like in the title sequence sure with all this
That's Dean Pruitt. Yeah, his family bailed you out. Yeah, him and my Colombian godmother. Man, that's super cool
Awesome. I love them. They're so cool. Hell. Yeah. Yeah, that's like the the best parents
You could ask for you know, besides your own parents
Yeah, cuz your own parents will let you do stuff and they'll tell you to go screw off until you change
Yeah, you know, but they it was every now goes both ways. You know what I mean? Yeah, so it's all good
Thank God they bailed you the fuck out of there
Yeah, I do because I don't think I don't know if I would have lived, you know
I really don't know it's in there seven months. That's a crappy-ass prison. Hey like a like Pinellas County Frickin Holiday Inn
Happy Halloween
Trick-or-treat, I swear I'll be good. Bye Lexi
Mmm-hmm
Pope
How many Lex does it take to get to the bottom of a touch? We're about to find out a one
One and this rally is truth a whom you don't do this you ain't got dinner. That's right a three
Mmm
Damn, what flavor is that like a porn fucking slut. What is that cherry? Mmm. Oh, yeah, he crunched it
The whole thing's gone three bites. No, you ain't get three motherfuckers. Look at that fucking finger. Hmm. Holy fuck
Oh, look at this one. This is my new one. Yeah, what happened?
I'm not looking at a bar. I
Hit it in the ice machine. See how it's crooked. Yeah, see how it's like tilted to the left. Yeah. Yeah, I cut it down like to the ligaments
Frickin, I'm chicken ice. I
Hit this little ketchup
Whatever, you don't get paid for this ain't no 16 million dollar finger. Yeah, God damn. Those are some deck hands right there
You want a job? Keep your mouth shut tape it up and go back to work. That's right. This is Christ
But anyway, that's the way it works. So thank God you're finally back here. Thanks to the Pruitt family. They bailed you out
Oh, yeah. Fox. What was it called? Fox Hill. Fox Hill. Fox Hill Prison, Nassau Bahamas.
And then what's been going on since then? Hmm. I don't know. It might have been more entertaining than God damn Atlanta's shit paradise sucks
That's like another prison, but it's a fancy prison. Well, you're in Atlanta prison? No, Atlantis. Atlantis is like the biggest resort in
Nassau Bahamas. Yeah, it's a prison. Oh, yeah, it's an expensive prison rich white people
Yeah, I've been there before it's fucking they don't leave the island they just stay on that island
They might go out for a little tour then they go back to the island where it's all security. Yeah, you know, that's where Ben goes
It's not real right. Yeah, I could see Ben
It's not a realistic place. Yeah, it's like going to Disney World. Yeah
But you went to fucking Fox Hill. Yeah, and I fucking state
I remember in a place this day I was down in the shanty town when the fucking shanty is right
What's it like out there?
It's cool. They're all people are trying to make it. Yeah. Yeah, but they're poor. Mm-hmm a lot of fishing down there too
And so they do a lot of cons fishing. They got a lot of rules though
They got a lot of laws the fucking conch is so good in the Bahamas. Oh, yeah solid. Oh, yeah grilled conch. Mm-hmm
It's good
So I got the freshest of prices and the people are really good to the people on the street and poor people. Yeah, the real people
Not the fucking Disney World people. Yeah, you know, they wouldn't even like almost stuck through the back gate
They're like, do you work here?
No, you got to go around that gate. You cannot try to sneak in to Atlanta. Yeah, but I couldn't
Fuck
They're like
Fuck it. I should have worn a Pope outfit. Yeah, if you would have that you were in for sure
Bucket step aside. They're Baptist. That's a big Baptist country. Oh, yeah
They ain't Roman Cadillac. They're Baptist. Damn. Pure Baptist. Really? Oh, yeah
You're pretty religious it seems like you definitely believe in God. Sure. Sure. Did you grow up that way? Sure
Yeah, yeah, I went to church. I played pool and church and all that robbed the church
I used to go in and get money. I used to rob the offering so I could buy a bag of fucking weed, you know, fuck
Yeah, I got a fucking I love church, but you're firm believer in Jesus and stuff. Yeah, definitely
Yeah, I wouldn't live this long. I had to be dead. Yeah, if I was a Jew, I'd be dead
Really, I tried being a Jew for about five years. I quit eating pork
Try to flee. Yeah, I followed your day of law
Then I was like, I'd be dead already
Why did you why would you want to try to be a Jew because I want to get closer to God?
I want to find out you want to try all the religions just try different legions
No, I just want to make my life better and to be a better
Person on this earth. There's just some scumbag piece of crap that parties all the time and you know, which is fun
But you know, there's people that do it better. So I want to find a way to do it better
So we got like you you believe in Jesus worship. We should have a camera over there, too
Yeah
We're missing an angle
Camera and then we got the total other end of it. We got Shane Lee the devil
Yeah, well, it's all good, but you gotta balance your other
Yeah, the yin and the yang. Yeah, but you got to be crazy to want to burn in the hell
But that's not his idea like you party in hell and all that stuff. So whatever. I don't know
I just think wanting to burning hell forever
Yeah, this is stupid just I like trying to talk them out of it all the time like, you know, I'll try to whatever
stored them
Converting
You know, like I see everybody I'll try like give me two bucks like say you love Jesus
Squirming around like that, too
That's she yeah, that's Shane Lee
Madeira Beach, I mean you guys
What do they call it the devil's dandruff cocaine is the devil's did the devil make cocaine?
No, God made cocaine the devil just abused it. That's all
Okay, I could use it to fucking twist people's souls and minds
Everything is created by God is of God and for God and the devil try to use it to manipulate people and then getting what he wants
Oh, that's all fucking devil didn't fucking create it. This is he uses it right for his fucking
Lovely purposes for his pleasure. Yes for his and Shane Lee's pleasures for his and Shane Lee the devil and Shane Lee
How long have you known Shane Lee?
33 years probably 33 so are you born and raised down here? Where are you from?
I'm from the South St. Petersburg, Florida born and raised
Live here all my life. My parents are both born here. Yeah, I think I don't know about my sperm daddy
I'm not sure where he's from her sperm donor dad. Yes. Well, he would try to be a good dad of my mother
You know how freaking women are I don't blame him
They're tough to your wifely duties. Yeah fucking really I'm just saying love you
But you know if you're not doing it, you got to go somewhere else to get it just say yeah
It's not right, but it may not be wrong. I don't know. We'll find out when we get to have him
You dumb ass this you cost so much for my travel
It's so funny
Do you mean do you see do you see any like younger kids trying to join like get into the fishing industry like being deck hands like kids
That are younger like in their 20s barely
It's like usually people are desperate that need a place to live a place to work. Yeah
Not people with home. There's a couple of few that very few
It's usually desperate people that need a place to go a place to work that no one else
That's the only good thing about the fish. We take people that no one else will take. Yeah
That's the only good thing about the fishing. We are putting people to work. Yeah, well, they can't get jobs anywhere else that they couldn't
Get why do you think that is though? Why how come how come it's like that?
It's why does the why why the
Fishing fish houses and both fish it and find out
That's the only way to find out two weeks at a time you could start out, you know and everyone thinks they're badass
Oh, you're sober. You're fucking don't do nothing. I did five years sober fishing
I worked around junkies drug ads shooting dope in front of me. Listen out
Okay, this is all good
Do that for five years. You're in and out
You leave your girlfriend at home for two weeks and she can fuck anybody she wants because she's totally fucking hot
Yeah, yeah, she's faithful to you, but after two weeks that you're not there and everybody wants to take her to a party all her friends and girlfriends
You're not around and when you're out there, you can't call you can't call anybody. There's not there's no
It's like being in the military. Yeah, you can't call the military. Yeah, you know and
Military lives is the same fucking way. They got shit fucking they have hard times with the relationships because they're never home
Yeah, they're never home. You're never fucking home. And when you do you get a little good time in and
Whatever, it's it's a tough. Is that one of the hardest parts you think it is it is
It's really hard to keep relationships in the business. So yeah, you know
Unless you make the bucle money and then even then they're still whatever but you can overlook it because it's it's a tough game
So yeah, oh
Yeah, I mean like it's funny. I mean what?
What Ozzy was explaining to us when we interviewed him was he was saying that most of the fishermen most of the deckhands
At least our junkies and they're addicted to heroin and oxys and all that shit whatever whatever they're addicted to there's straight guys
But it's tough, you know when you look I am not into that crap, right?
But you're around it, right? Yeah, I'm around it. It just disgusts me
But I understand it it gives you a feeling of love and security that you want you can't get it
So it gives you a temporary feeling of being loved and everything's good around you around on the boat with
Yeah, what else or no just being on the dog even you know, okay come home you got
Cuts and bruises or scabs and you're dirty and you're disgusting
You can barely afford a place to live unless you got a lot of money, right now
You come home you've been out of sea for two weeks. You're supposed to find a place to live
And you got to come down to the boat to work tomorrow to get it ready for the next trip
You understand what I'm talking about. Yeah, and then you're gone for another two weeks
Yeah, and you're supposed to rent some place out and you're never even there. You're never even there
So there's a waste of fucking money exactly like I'm like
Might as well give it to the Negroes to let them buy new shoes for their kids. Yeah fucking fucking really
I mean, that's not the answer, but it's tough unless you got somebody then he got somebody and then they fucking do
Yeah, my language. Yeah, I don't love that shot. Oh
That's beautiful look at those for groupers everyone
There's the red tide not fuck up and fuck up any of the fish or the crabs or anything. No cuz it's deep water
I don't know about the crabs this all deep water fish or way out way out. Yeah, they're way deep
That's it red tides more top water. Mm-hmm. Really horrible
I
Ain't seen that guy around just like you said. I probably won't be seen again. Don't throw me off this
I've never seen him again. I haven't seen him a lot before this though. I might have seen him one time
That was it. He was gone. He's done after that. They threw him out. He's done
I don't know where he lives or even said that in the video. He's like, they'll probably throw me off for saying this
Hey, but he was passionate about what he said
How he really was real honest, you know, and a lot of people we tried to talk to didn't want to tell a lot of people were
Scared he was like he was like I'll tell you guys, but I want to go over there
Yeah, I got respect for people that yeah speak the truth
Tell the truth and shame the devil. That's right. Yep. Let's say him same thing with Ozzy, man
He was real as fuck to us. I mean, yeah, he I can tell you can tell everybody fucking loves Ozzy Ozzy because he
It's the hairdo. He's the real
God did it. I can't believe you cut that shit off. What made you cut that off? Just working because I don't
Sometimes when you're working out there, you're dedicated to the work I get you know, yeah, I don't want to spend
15 minutes in the morning brushing my hair back tying it like just cut it off fucking
So who what you cut it off yourself or you get somebody else to cut it off or how did that? How did that go?
You just know I think I went to the bar
The hairdresser but after that I got to do it myself. Yeah, they got all them old ladies with no hair going to get their hair cut
Isn't that weird? Hmm. All the older you know, you can't even your guides. It's hard to find a barbershop these freaking hairstyles
Crazy. Yeah, they got old ladies in there. They got one inch of hair. They're in there every week
You're not gonna look growing your freaking hair. They're getting color though color down. They're trying to hide
They're tying I need a haircut. I had to go buy my own trimmers and get my friends out come here
You just got to go all silver like gammy. Yeah, I've gam
Gams the shit. Yeah. Yeah, she's got the sexy hair. I like the cartoon stuff. You like the cartoon. Yeah
It helped me understand who'd you get to do that? How'd you I found it?
Somebody else actually made that I was I was doing my own research on the whole quota system
I didn't really if I had at least 20 people explain it to me including Aussie and it still is
Hard to understand. Yeah, it's hard to understand. I found some guy how to fuck a worker out of his money
That's how it's about. Yeah, look before the quota system. We had
Whatever derby fishing, right? Everyone just went out and killed whatever you would get a percentage 40 percent 30 percent
but then
And we all split the money up now, they got this quota system
They said it would raise the price of fish and they did right the price of fuel and everything now
Now the government owns the fish now. They can only allot you a certain amount of fish, right? Right? Well
There's some problems with this
One they're cutting us out of more money that we would be getting I've watched checks. I'm looking at them
Only make a thousand dollars to maybe get two three thousand dollars and I watch this check go out to some guy that has no
liability for what happens on the boat
That's sitting at home watching TV jerking off fucking some Oriental slave
Or maybe she's really willing but
Anyway
He's in at home watching TV. He's got no liability if someone gets hurt on the boat. He doesn't pay for it. He has no
Has doesn't have to fix the boat. He doesn't have to pay
Anything so wait wait wait wait wait. He if he owns the boat though and everybody fucking but there's people that don't own the boat
That have stock that bought this shit
That have nothing to do and said home. They just buy a piece of the pie
Yes, and you're making money with no liability no
Responsibility to the boat or the people that work on it and they take all this money
See, I said I'm still fucking learning how we're I still don't know how I made the goddamn
It's like being a stock like all these stock people
It's accepted. It's American way, right make money by doing nothing
Yeah, real estate business fucked the whole country up people make a lot of money selling shit
It's not worth what they're to you know, I understand right whatever. Let's talk about it's all about the stock market
Yeah, yeah, well, they're trying to be like that
In order to be that way you gotta fuck the worker you gotta fuck the worker out of their money
They're the one doing the work
They're the one producing for all these people to sit around and invest money into it
But their money is they're just buying stock. There's no money coming back to us from that
Stock, you know what I mean, right? Not to you guys. No, not to us
It just goes to some owner of the stock
That's it and he can sell it whenever he wants and he's got no one
If someone gets hurt on the boat, he doesn't have to pay for their injuries or she or whoever who does have to pay for the bat
Let's not go there. This you see my healing process
So nobody's paying nobody paid for yours. No every once while they'll buy me antibiotics, which is good. What a tight
I got a pretty buy this guy
Just say it fuck yeah, yeah
I had one guy send me to chiropractor and I got healed right before I went to the chiropractor. It was amazing
The boat came down on my back. I had to dive under
What about when you got the hook stuck in your dick? Oh god, thank you Jesus. Oh
Thank you for Neosporin
How the fuck do you get a hook stuck in your dick hauling here fuck and it came up the rail was a low rail
I like the low rider boats, but
Come up the rail in it fricking
Right through my shot, but he only got me on a tip so
Through the whole middle of it right just that yeah like the end a little Prince Albert fuck oh fuck. Oh, yes
So then what did it grab a rabbit rip out or what you got to pull it out or what?
Yeah, I gotta pull it out like I wanted to say I like you like there
You know like really back off fucker. I got this so it's stuck. It didn't like pull out
It was a lot, but it it went through
But it's a nice big hug like that big of a barb so luckily the barb didn't go in and it just pulled it and stretched it out a lot
Oh
Bro god I had a girl from crazy. I had a girl from Georgia that made my big dick bigger
Oh my god
What the fuck did you do you pour vodka on it and call it a day or I put me a sport
I am fucking pray to God, but oh god. I don't know if that's the guy that we had on the clap
We had a sense of guy you had to clap his that might have been a different trip. Oh
God what never mind
Never was that the craziest injury you ever had
Mmm, I don't know now. I've had worse injuries. I was kind of fucked up, but it was it was good. It was good
My dick got impaled by a hook, but it was good. They like the story everybody on the beach knew it before I got back
I'm like, yeah, they're all looking at me. I'm like, it still works. Fuckers. Fuck you. Yeah
You know, they're only calling me in sympathetic and shit. I'm like, no, it's the fuck all you my dick's better than all yours
What's the worst injury you've had?
The worst injury
No, you got the broken triple broken finger there that one fingers gnarliest fuck
I don't know. Yeah, well, I got that one the other one. Oh that one
Yeah, that one that was a figure four hook and then I got hooked in the factory after I got the finger four
It went through it pulled out four ways. I got hooked in the finger while I was setting out
Hook me. Yeah
Then it pulled and I'm hanging on
Rip through one way. Oh
Fuck and then it ripped through another way and then it came out my finger
Oh, I was like my boss is like I told you not to put that hook on you can't sue me
Fuck like all right. I get duct tape fucking you fucking shooting me. No, I'm not God
That was like my first first the second-year efficient. Yeah, but maybe that is my third-year efficient. I think how old are you?
I think when I got this I was 23 Jesus. So what you start
You start fishing around 20 years old. Oh, no, I started fishing at 18. I started on a
commercial gillnet boat mullet fishing in the Darrow Beach and
I went to Long Lion in
1986 I think I was doing 85. I started fishing a mullet netting and
86 I started long-lining and is that where you machine Lee? Yeah, they're fishing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I met him on a dock
We were fucking shootin dope fucking
You're shooting dope
Shootin dope. What were you shooting? Coke, baby. You're shooting coke. Okay
Fuck head right to the brain
Thank you Jesus. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. There's a Pope shit in the woods. Yeah, he wouldn't all devil bound and he was this party
I don't know. It wasn't no devil or Jesus down. He wasn't straight up fucking. Let's fucking get fucked up
My goal is to get you Shane and Marilyn Manson on this podcast all at once
You know, I'm taking it
Please excuse me and I want to push my fucking welcome. Yeah, let's do it call Luna Lee. Yeah plays a good guy. I'm
What the fuck's a good guy and it's like that fucking Japanese guitar
Oh, all right fucking and she does smoke on a water Leonard Skinner and fucking AC DC
Look it up on fucking Lena. What Luna Lee Luna Lee Luna Lee. It's called a good guy
I am it's like a fucking Japanese guitar and she does all the rock songs. She does AC DC
She does the blues. It's badass. Check it out. Yeah, when you're done here
Fucking dude, I don't know if she's from Korea. She's got a Korean agent her agent's from Korea
She's a fucking badass artist. I'm oh, yeah, that's fucking looking check it out
Check it out. You got a listen to her if you could pull that up on it. I mean I
Am in love with Luna Lee. I'm sure I don't look her up. Look her up Luna Lee calm fucking
She is and she plays. Oh fuck. Yeah
Is this Luna fucking Lee right here? Yeah, she is fuck. Yeah
It's called a good guy. I'm a good guy a gay. Yeah, I'm a guy guy
She's fucking hot hotel, California Craig her up. Look at that thing
It's this on a table like that. Yeah
She's like a harp almost she comes she does towards she just did a tour in Texas as
Fucking awesome
Luna Lee fucking
Any song you want Wow, how did you find out about her?
Well, I was I like Asian women. So I was looking up. You do like Asian women. Fuck. Yeah
Artist is a lot of really yeah, I mean he's down there
I don't know cuz they look at they're so sexy beautiful. There's like beautiful people fucking
They're smart and beautiful and everything they do is they are beautiful. They are hell. Yeah precise look at her Japanese cars
Bucking hello. Yeah, hey, she's ripping that fucking thing. Yeah, she is
Fuck yeah, oh
my god, I
Would kiss her damn
She's like the lady Jesus we're getting Luna Lee on this fucking podcast fuck. Yeah, fuck. Yeah, we need a little where she at
I don't know if she's from Japan or Korea her agents from Korea cuz I looked her up
But I was like really stoked. I watched this one. I was like wow Jess
Listen to that. Oh, that's a beautiful sound not like yeah here in America, you know, let's just
Oh
So she could be from Japan or Korea, yeah, I don't know I don't know how it's a who you know what I mean
Yeah, oh that thing's fucking electric to it's plugged into an amp. Yeah. Oh, oh see what else you got
She's got done some back-and-black Facebook.com slash Luna X music. Yeah
She's fucking hot
Awesome, what a great are you gonna leave? She's a badass. I'm seriously got to do some more research on her
Yeah, you'll love it. I mean, you know, I'm impressed. I was like yeah stoked way
Fuck yes, you don't have to go to Argentina
Fuck yeah, so what's next? What's next for space Lee? Oh?
Luna Lee, I don't know. I don't know if I'm gonna revive into the Luna Lee right there. It is. Yeah back in black
Oh
That's funny. She's playing these songs. Yeah, it's awesome
It's a very small island, you know, you've got to be talented
Wow, that's fucking crazy. That's pretty cool
They're saying they isn't something you wouldn't have thought about seeing on Sunday, you know
Oh, oh
Yeah
Mm-hmm. I want to feed you the best fish you've ever
She's ever had grouper. I don't know they do the tuna thing over there. They got other fish. I'd love
Japan I didn't think Asians like fish, but I bet one that didn't like it was really sucked
But yeah, you know, but I don't know but I got some stone crab sitting at home right now waiting for me
I told you earlier. Yeah
whole stone crab traps
They're fucking good, but once you eat too much you get sick of it like
Every season every year like as soon as the season starts
I want to fucking eat so much stone crab, and then I drink I eat so much and I'm like
Just the fucking thought of stone crab makes me sick eventually, but right now
I can't wait to get rid of stuff flounder with stone crab
Oh
Fucking love
Fucking
Jizz into my pants
All of America you need to check this out cuz
That's bad mother fucking Lee. She needs some more views on there, too. She could be it. She should be into Lee family
Yes
Season two the leaves the Lee family until you have to go to Lee County. They got something Lee County
Yeah, Lee County. Yeah, my god. That's a good place. That's nice for Mars. Oh, yeah
Good for all that good stuff. There's a whole big another fishing community down there. Yeah
Really? Yeah, I canoeed back from Lee County
Really?
Fuck I got stuck down there Dean left took me down to like 20 years ago left me down there really I can do my way back
How far do you even fucking crazy man that guy was so cool that guy good. Yeah, he's still he's still
Running the save-on see food right there where you were at and whatever the deal is over there
He's still got his bolts. He's still got to be responsible the one guy
I wish I would have interviewed was Gibby the guy who owns save on yeah
He's been around forever. I met him before with Frank shed this when I was a lot younger
Yeah, I met him when I was like 10 years old my father introduced me to Gibby really
Yeah, bitch cut more fucking fish than you could ever imagine McDonald's fucking servant
Their factory is the real deal. Yeah, they have a legitimate like it's a fucking factory of fish going through like
They have fucking saws these guys are pulling these guys got an assembly line a fucking saws cutting fucking groupers heads off
Hmm guttin. I'm like it's insane crank Luna Lee up in the back putting the Saran wrap around them packaging
So fucking hot
Just look at that. How can you not but love that girl?
Yeah, we got to get her Luna Lee we're gonna hit her up you got it get in touch with her get in her DM
She will do fucking tours. We're gonna send her a message
Fuck yeah, please do fucking. I love her. She's my idol freaking my fucking. I don't know
You know, I ain't stocked her or nothing like that, but I just sure
Bullshit, I'm not a stalker. God damn it
I'm a straight-up molester
Course you are look at the fucking hat. Look at the outfit this guy this guy's not a molester. No
I
Cool voodoo chili
That's yeah, I'm serious cool, man
And imagine she's got probably all Japanese yeah Asian stuff, but yeah, we don't even know sounds
We don't even know. Oh, yeah, she's just doing the stuff we're familiar with yeah
I've never even heard of that fucking I forget what it's called without a guitar. She's playing guy. I'm but
Good guy. I'm I don't know what it's called how they actually say it a horizontal harp. It's fucking bad
It's cool. I'm amazed. I'm impressed. I'm getting drunk off this vodka Mountain Dew
Tito's rocks T does actually I need a real fucking welcome to Texas
Patrol can I get a little slacker? We need some ice. There's a fucking ice machine motherfuckers studio, too
Yeah, these fuckers. I need to set up. They got their own ice machine. You won't get to a life
Oh God, look at this motherfucker. We need ice. I need a mountain. We need a chain
Yeah, just go get a giant scoop of ice
I do like fucking 50,000 pounds of ice today. Just bring a big scooper full of ice out of the ice machine
Just saying just saying motherfucker for a guy that grew up in Florida never had to shovel snow
I'm shoveling more fucking ice and snow now that I fucking snow is in cocaine or no snow is an ice for fish
Fish ice. I like empty 50,000 pounds a day out of the fucking ice machine
Not every day, but what did you do today?
I unloaded about four thousand a little over four thousand fish today. Oh
All right, she's not good enough. He brought his own 7-eleven ice. Fuck. This is yours here. Holy Jesus
Courtesy of felt shout out to Feltech. We rent their studio. No, I'm good
How many more podcasts until we get kicked out of this studio is what I'm asking
Kicked out we probably got I think these guys
These guys are too straight for us these guys are too
They won't let us smoke cigarettes
Because it'll stink and I'll make any get the roof. Yeah. Yeah, that's true
I can't blame them, but we're gonna smoke weed. All you do is lead to burn toast once a week
Like yeah, we were cooking toast
Yeah, like toaster does toaster strudel fucking things with the cream
Just saying cover your ass. We weren't smoking pot. We are we left
With anybody want to get ready because you're gonna burn your place down. No, this is cool. That's fucking studio
It's cool. I still know it's dope and it's super cool. They let us have it here
Yeah, but we need something that we're allowed to smoke dope in for sure
Yeah, we want to smoke some weed smoke some cigarettes
I like to do some pre-baked
Yeah
No, no more shooting
I'm done with a junkie scene. Fuck that junkies the junkie scene is gotta be fucking rough man
I didn't even know that there was that many people that were not fucked up around. It's a hard life
You know, and that's how they cover it up. We did that the dog gives you a
Artificial feeling of love that everything is okay, and then it wears off and then you're fine
Yeah, then you're fucking that's when you get really weird, but I don't go for that. I tried it. No, thank you
Keith Richards didn't fucking go to Sweden for 30 blood transmissions because it's great
He tried to get off it
So did Jerry Garcia? He died trying to get off it. So
It ain't that great, you know, no only what it was good on was Howard Hughes
He ran the fucking some of the biggest companies in the world and
Hi, I'm Orphine. He was a junkie. No, he's a morphine junkie. He had his own nurse fucking 24 hours a day
But he stayed secluded so no one had to see what up, you know, but Michael Jackson Michael Jackson
He had the the dope that wasn't dope that you wouldn't find in the blood test, you know
He had the they had the good shit where they moved the one
Drunk
Yeah, the old the fucking apartment the old apartment we went there and there was fucking blood splatter everywhere
Yeah, yeah, where's Carol? She's up in Clearwater working on a pirate boat. Oh, yeah
No, the captain Mimo boat, I think she's doing a clear water. She's lives in Dunedin. That's perfect
You gotta get Carol back. Yeah, we gotta get you living with you on your island, right for a little bit
She just went out there can do that. What do you got? Yeah, she got drunk with me one night. She wouldn't bang me
She's like, yeah, I don't want a two inch. Jesus. I
Wanted a nine and a half fucking head open by five and three fell over into the clamshells. It was so cool
I like fuck. Yeah, fuck. Yeah, whatever. I ain't in the fucking taking the unwilling
You know, two inch Jesus a two inch Jesus. It's only two inches because you ain't excited me
First time we met her it's screwy Louise with Shane Lee
We go to find Shane Lee and we find him his screwy
She's with him and in about the first five minutes. He looked at us. He goes. She's horny. She wants to fuck you guys
Of course she does
And me and Danny were like, oh
Whoa, okay. Yeah, she was like in her early 20s and Shane is what she's like a little girl
You know, she plays he pushes and pulls away post the pole
Yeah, and she gets fucked by like six guys in a row. Then she wants to cut her wrist and shit
So I'm not into that shit, you know, you could push it and get her pussy
And
But they didn't see gonna slither fuck her
Oh god, you're gonna run us on heroin. You know what I mean? I'm not into that shit, you know, that's fucking horrible
I don't need pussy that bad. No, that's not horrible. Just say it's a good girl
Yeah, but we definitely should go follow up with her those checker out on the pirate
I mean you're on it doing what you want, but whatever
I've had with plenty of drunk girls that locked their legs. They giving it up. Yeah, so I don't buy that ship Bill Cosby shit
I'm just saying you think he's innocent. You think he's innocent. Fuck. Yeah. Yes, the bitch is new
They gave it up with a married man. Yeah, you know what they were getting into you gave it up fucking break
They probably snorted those pills. They just wanted a big contract. It's the same thing with a didn't get the big contract
So yeah, I fell play
Bullshit because I've been with lots of drunk girls. It would give me their pussy. I don't take it look done
Yeah, how many how many little boys in Hollywood had to fucking had to bend it over had to bend it over to make it
They ain't getting no sympathy motherfuckers with a goddamn skull chuck. No shit
I've already had a doctor's call in my house trying to molest me fucking sir
Doctors doctors. You're the fucking pope. You're the one doing the molesting around here. Yeah, well, it's proper
It's proper proper
It's by a trained professional. I call it cooperative affection
Fuck yeah. Oh my god. Thank you Jesus
huge Jesus
It's not sexual harassment. It's cooperative affection. God damn it. I think we need to end this motherfucker. All right
She's drink you haven't been drinking I fucking on my third damn vodka and I got a bubba halfway
Yeah, oh shit. I'm only two-thirds. Oh one. Well, what's next for space? What's coming up?
And yeah, what do you got next? Let's wrap this thing up. How do you want to wrap it up?
How do you want to let the people how do you want to leave them off right now until we catch up all the fans out?
We might do season two, but I don't know what we're gonna do on season two. I don't know
I don't know. They're asking for it. Love everybody. That's all I can say and I mean the Mexicans
I hope the beaters don't get shot coming over the border the fucking Trump's getting a little fucking crazy
Yeah, but whatever. It's it's Trump, but it's his fucking crazy
Whatever, I love Donald Trump, but whatever even though. He's a real estate fucking douchebag. I love him
He's our president
But the Berlin Wall went down and the Mexican wall go down. They are neighbors. We should be one big country
South America and North America. We should all be one. That's what the NAFTA agree
South America's got fucking everything so much stuff down there. Yeah, they got a lot of we should all be one country
We'll be the greatest continent double continent as one. I agree with that
I'm just saying you can be the fucking one to leave the coalition. You could be the one to bring the peace
I'm not into that shit. I think we should all be one fucking country. Yeah, I've been I walked through that country
I walked through Central America all the way to goddamn fucking mosquito-ridden, Texas and those people love me
They laughed at me and some didn't help me and some of them did they could have killed me
I fucking been to fucking from Nicaragua all the way to fucking Texas
Fuck it. Thank you. Jesus and I said my prayers every night slept on the streets and a couple times
Colombian girl put me in a place on there and girl a Mexican girl took me in their homes
And he took care of me and fucking put me on back on the street and nobody fucked with me
Nobody a couple guys pulls the blades out and shit in this that took my cigarettes and whatever played the little game
But it was good and a couple cops and there was a couple cops who were like totally fucking cool
Well, they're like he's done cops are fucking cool. Yeah
Drunk as shit fucking fuck yeah, I
Spacely for president. Yeah, I'm saying fuck. How do you get this nickname space? Oh
That was from working on the fishing boat. That's how I got it cuz I fucking sucked hauling gear
I'd space out. I didn't know what I was doing is my fucking second trip fishing. I'm hauling
I'm doing like lead guy's job
Hole a gear. So I like part, you know, I didn't wouldn't use the stuff code. I'd part the gear
Yeah, fuck it almost get fucking hurt and just get a hook in your dick. Yeah, I did get that too
Fuck and that was like my first or second. Yeah, damn
So whatever that's how I got space. It was space Lee like space these brackets space Lee sprockets. That's where it came
Mr. Space Lee, that's where really space Lee. Yeah, space. Hey, you're fired
Jetson you're fired. Oh
And I did a lot of holy shit and being a greenhorn
I hired and fired a lot of fucking people because the guy we took out didn't know what the fuck he was doing
He said he lied. He was like, oh, I know how to get here. I done this before
I just been off a little while, but he didn't know what the fuck he was doing. That's how I got my job
Yeah, well like I took over is I'm like, I don't know how to do this job
But I'll do it so we can fucking make some money, you know, I can all do it
I don't know it but I sucked fucking make it up as I go. I didn't get the name space Lee cuz I'm good
I got these things because I suck ass fucking piece of shit fucking
Worst hauler in the fucking earth after 30 years. I got kind of you got pretty good at it. Yeah
Yes, fuck yeah, well hell yeah, thank you for coming on the podcast this week space
Thank you. I appreciate it the fans appreciate it the world appreciates it
Tito's and Mountain Dew. Hey, who else is sponsored by felled tech also
Oh and Bubba jugs from Atlanta, Georgia made America not to get Chinese, but this shit's made in America
And by legal medical marijuana. Yeah. Dot com fuckers. That looks like seaweed
Of course it is. Thank you, Dan
