Hello, world! On this episode of the Concrete Podcast, I talk to Dr. Dominic de Agostino.
Dom is an associate professor in the Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology at
the University of South Florida, Morsani College of Medicine, and a senior research scientist
at the Institute of Human and Machine Cognition. Dom's primary focus is developing and testing
metabolic therapies, like the ketogenic diet, which can effectively treat many forms of cancer
and epileptic seizures. In addition to being one of the smartest people I know,
he is also one of the strongest. He has deadlifted 500 pounds for 10 reps immediately after a seven
day fast, as fitness and weight training has always been a huge part of his life. Some of his
research has been funded by the Department of Defense, the Office of Naval Research,
and many other private organizations. If you have any questions about diet and nutrition,
cancer prevention, or longevity, you will enjoy this conversation with Dr. Dominic de Agostino.
Enjoy the show!
So, uh, so yeah, how did you get into initially getting, get into talking about your work on podcasts
and like on the internet and mainstream media?
Yeah, uh, well, I knew about the ketogenic diet and my research took me in the direction
of using a ketogenic diet for oxygen toxicity seizures, which is a limitation for
hyperbaric oxygen therapy, which we can talk about, and also it is a limitation of navy
seal divers that use a closed circuit rebreather because they breathe high concentrations of oxygen
in a closed circuit. And that research, the technologies that we developed to do that type
of research were essentially hyperbaric chambers that had technologies inside that I had used for
years, including confocal microscopes, atomic force microscopes, patch clamp electrophysiology.
These are all techniques that a neuroscientist uses, and I was a neuroscientist for my PhD
and also my postdoc. And it, to do the research that the military wanted, we need to put these
things inside a hyperbaric chamber, these types of techniques. And in doing so, we started looking
at different cell types, and one was a cancer cell type. And ultimately, that project led to
looking at the ketogenic diet and hyperbaric oxygen as a cancer therapy. And I did a TEDx talk
about that. And that got the publication and the TEDx talk got exposure. And you can look at that
to see without going into too much science detail. That particular topic, not so much the oxygen
toxicity for navy seal topic, but the topic of using a ketogenic diet and also hyperbaric oxygen
therapy for cancer got attention. And I did a couple smaller podcasts, but Joe Merkola reached
out to me. I didn't know much about him. I didn't know that he had a really big reach.
And I did a little bit, I just associated him with
things that I know he had sort of, he was very controversial, and he, especially in regards
to things like EMF or GMOs and glyphosate and things that I really was on the fence about and
didn't really have a strong negative opinion towards. So, but I looked at his podcast and the
information that he was putting out there and saw a lot of it was relevant. And he had some
bigger names on there. So I decided to do it. And within, you know, 24 48 hours had like a
quarter million views, and I think a lot of opportunities came out of that. And as an
academic scientist who had just transitioned into a tenure track position, kind of mainstream
conventional scientists, I, you know, some of my academic peers may have looked down on,
you know, doing a Joe Merkola podcast, but I really think that he puts out a lot of information
that's good. Some of it's on the edge of fringe, but some of the stuff that he was really a leading
kind of, he does a lot of outreach and information. And a lot of it
really was looking forward or had a lot of foresight into things like that we know now,
like glyphosate, for example, or roundup. And I grew up on a farm spraying tons of that. I was a
sprayer kid, you know, get up on the thing and put the concentrate in and spray without a mask.
And, you know, GMO crops were grown all around. So I never gave any of this stuff a second thought.
And even as an academic scientist, I didn't. But when it was actually his website that I
stumbled upon and a lot of stuff that I was not aware about, aware of in regards to the toxicity
of some of these agents and things like that. So he put a lot of things on my radar that were
kind of interesting. And he took a particular interest in metabolism, ketogenic diets, and
hyperbaric oxygen therapy. And that was essentially the first podcast that maybe got me into the
influencer space in this category. Wow. And so that thing kind of blew up and got over a million
views. And that led to doing Tim Ferriss and Joe Rogan. Yeah. Oh, you know what? Tim Ferriss,
my friend of mine, Peter Tia, who also has a great, a really good podcast that has incredible
podcast notes and it's like actually a very good resource for people just interested in science
and want to go super deep on a topic. He had, I believe, introduced me to him through an email
and we started communicating. And I didn't actually know if Tim Ferriss either at the time,
maybe 2012 or 13. And then I did his podcast and I'd actually did two more. I did a total of three
podcasts with Tim and have since became a huge fan of the content that he puts out. So he's
it's very sort of like Rogan, very eclectic in the, you know, the types of people he has on and
he puts out. I'm the first podcast really, you know, I was enamored by that first podcast
with Tim, even though it was kind of a lot of stuff to digest, like a lot of the way the
terms you guys use. He's obviously very educated when it comes to, you know, science and the stuff
that you guys are talking about. And some of the words that you guys are using is kind of hard
for someone like me, kind of like a normal everyday guy to understand. But he breaks it down. He does
break it down towards the end. Yeah, to do that. You know, I didn't really prepare it off of that
podcast. And that has been sort of a trend, like I just don't really prepare for it. He didn't
really give me a lot of like, I'm going to ask you this or that. I know I asked you before I
came on here. Yeah, what questions just so I preemptively know what's going on. But yeah,
I remember I was teaching and I had the run to get on the Skype call or whatever. And I was just
like, okay, I got to put on another hat here and just talk. And it just I felt like I babbled at
the end of it. Yeah, it was only supposed to be 90 minutes. And I think I went like two and a half
or two or three. It was like almost three hours. Yeah. And I was thinking, Oh, man, I hope he edits
this up because I just rambled on. I just, but yeah, the feedback has been pretty good on that.
So I guess I rambled in areas that were helpful. That was amazing. Did you prepare it all for
the Joe Rogan podcast? Or was that just sort of like on a whim as well? Yeah, I became a little
bit more prepared because I knew, you know, he had such a big platform. And there was, because
sometimes you just get into a topic or he leads you into discussion, you forget some of the reasons,
you know, why you're doing what you're doing. So I, I try to kind of plug the Office of Navy
Research, the Charlie Foundation, which was probably the first website I ever stumbled upon
with the ketogenic diet. And that got me, that sort of revealed to me that the ketogenic diet was
a medical therapy for epilepsy. And I was sort of contracted by Office of Navy Research to develop
a neuro protective anti seizure strategy. And I had done an undergrad in nutrition science at
Rutgers University. And it became an opportunity for me to revisit nutrition, and actually make
that the basis of my whole scientific sort of, you know, progress or platform as a research
scientist at USF. So I can introduce that and kind of reduce some of the drug related research that
I thought I was going to do, looking at like drug compounds that were antioxidants or anti seizure
drugs. And it became refreshing to just reintroduce nutrition back in because I've always been, I
majored in nutrition and biology in neuroscience or in Rutgers before going into a neuroscience
program and kind of left nutrition out of my whole PhD, but always wanted to go back to it.
So my postdoctoral fellowship and then transition into tenure track position really gave me that
opportunity to revisit food as medicine, you know, and or nutritional compounds that we developed
to as therapies and medicine. That's amazing. And how did you get, can you give me the story on how
you initially got involved with the Department of Defense in developing, developing what you
developed for the Navy SEALs and what the implementation was for the Navy SEALs, like what
were their missions that were specifically involved with? Well, this research was really basic
science research and it's still ongoing. And the stuff that we're doing now in humans is actually
done as a subcontract with Duke. So they have these environmental chambers there where we kind
of dive people in and out of a ketogenic diet and look at their response. So looking back, it was
kind of a circuitous route to it. But as a PhD student, I knew I was going into a lab that was
funded by the military and two or three years before I actually graduated. And I started writing
proposals to Office of Navy Research. And one got funded that developed the technology, which was
hyperbaric microscopy. And the results from that experiment kind of led me down the path
that like targeting mitochondria, energy metabolism, those sorts of things. And the whole
basis behind that first postdoctoral fellowship grant was to understand the molecular mechanisms
of oxygen toxicity seizures. Okay. So the technologies that we developed helped us
understand it in ways that we didn't know before. And I kind of realized that nutrition,
targeting energy metabolism was a way to go. And then I stumbled upon the ketogenic diet,
which was a diet used for drug refractory epilepsy. When the drugs did not work to control epilepsy,
the standard of care actually was to put a patient on a ketogenic diet. And then in about
60% to 70% of patients who do a ketogenic diet, when drugs fail, the diet
can work remarkably well. And people has a positive effect. And in like 15 to 20%,
or maybe 10 to 15% are super responders, meaning that they never have a seizure again,
they follow the diet, and they wean themselves off, and then they never get used again. So it is,
some people have labeled it a cure for epilepsy in that subpopulation. So to me, that I didn't
know that. And I majored in nutrition, and we didn't talk about the ketogenic diet,
only the negative effects of like the Atkins diet or low carb diet or high protein diets,
which I actually at the time I thought the ketogenic diet was a high protein diet.
Having gone through a top tier nutrition program, I still did not have any idea what a ketogenic
diet was. So only I took it upon myself to do the research I connected with the people who
were doing the research at Johns Hopkins. Mostly I bought Dr. Freeman was alive at the time,
and Dr. Eric Kosoff, who had did work with the ketogenic diet and the modified ketogenic diet,
which was higher in protein. And it was like almost a diet that I could follow. So it was much
more liberal in protein instead of the restricted 8 to 12%. It was like 20 upwards of 25 or 30%
protein. So I decided to like do the ketogenic diet. I was learning about it. I connected with
patients like Mike Dancer, we connected in a nutrition forum. And he was in a patient with
epilepsy in the UK. And he did the diet and it worked for him. And this is all while I was like
researching the diet. I connected with Dr. Mary Newport, whose husband had Alzheimer's disease.
And she was using a ketogenic strategy, which was like MCT oil and coconut oil,
which can elevate your ketones. And later a ketone ester that was developed by Dr. Richard
Beach at the NIH who passed away about a month ago, actually. And these are all key people that
were really the reason like why I went into this area. So I realized, you know, Hopkins was doing
research. There was a lot of publications. I connected with people here in the Tampa Bay area,
people abroad. And it motivated me to contact the program manager at the Department of Defense
or the Office of Navy Research and say, Hey, here, look at all the science here.
You have top tier academic Institute to do in research on the ketogenic diet for a broad range
of seizure disorders. So it seemed to be independent of the seizure type. The ketogenic diet worked
remarkably well for many different seizure types. So oxygen toxicity seizures is a type of seizure
that causes, you know, these grand mal or tonic-clonic seizures. So the science was there
on this diet that I didn't really know existed as a medical therapy. And I realized that the
military did some research. It wasn't too public, but I did find some of it on PubMed where they
fasted rats for 24 and 36 hours, and it made them like super rats. So it made them
resistant to oxygen toxicity up to 200. And I think a 36 hour fast was like 250% delay in
the time that they get seizures. And the best seizure drugs only work to that. And you have to
dose them up so high, the animals basically like in a sedated state. So you could not load up a Navy
seal with anti-seizure drugs because they have a, they reduce cognitive and physical performance
and then throw him into battle, right? So the next question was the ketogenic diet appears to not
really alter your performance that much cognitive, it may enhance it. And physical performance was
still, I didn't know too much about it, but I realized that Jeff Volick, who is now at Ohio
State University, built a whole sort of academic career studying the performance effects of low
carb ketogenic diets. So that gave me more ammunition, so to speak, to give the program
officer to say, hey, there are all these different applications of a ketogenic diet. Can you give
me, I'm proposing to get a million plus dollars to really fund this. So it was a lot of back and
forth and maybe about a year and a half before I actually got like the grant was awarded. And then
when money started coming in to the University of South Florida, they like it, it's federal funds
that pay indirects, which they can use for different things. And it was a significant amount of money
equivalent to like an NIH kind of grant. So that set me up academically into my tenure track position
to do a whole a decade now of research on the ketogenic diet. So it started with oxygen toxicity,
we developed ketogenic agents like exogenous ketone supplementation, ketone esters you may have
heard of. So these things sort of developed and were utilized in our research and we published
about them. And ultimately, I was part of bringing ketone salts, which are exogenous ketones to the
market. Okay, we had a number of patents and then different different organizations got these
patents and then commercial products started showing up. So it was actually me and Patrick Arnold,
were part of that. And Patrick Arnold was, he was also on on Tim Ferriss's show, if you haven't
listened to him, he may be a good guest to have on interesting background. But his background
was performance enhancement. So I was physical performance. Yeah. So he was involved in,
well, you can just look up Patrick Arnold and he did as a chemist. So he has a very interesting
background, but he was very willing and interested and able to develop a compound that I needed,
whereas all my connections in academia were not really willing or to develop this particular
ketogenic compound. So when he did develop a series of sort of prototype compounds,
one particular compound that he purified worked remarkably well for oxygen toxicity
seizures. And then we went on to use that compound in everything from cancer to Angelman syndrome,
which is a genetic disorder. We now have Angelman syndrome clinical trials at Vanderbilt is being
done on exogenous ketones, glucose lowering effects, anti inflammatory effects. It enhances,
it has behavioral effects that can reduce anxiety. So this is work that my wife did as a behavioral
neuroscience person. So yeah, we developed sort of novel agents and then novel agents that when
you give them orally, they mimic the effect of the ketogenic diet or mimic the effect of fasting.
So if I was to consume a ketone ester right now, say if I was eating carbohydrates, but I follow
a ketogenic diet most of the time, and you take a person and you give them a ketone ester and you
measure their metabolic markers, it would look like they've fasted for a week or more and within
15 to 20 minutes. So yeah, so these agents are really remarkable and they shift the metabolism to
basically burn a different fuel. So your brain is like a hybrid engine, it can use glucose,
and in periods of fasting, it can use ketone bodies after about a week, about 60%
of brain energy comes from ketones. So the technologies that we developed basically
put somebody into that state very rapidly and it's giving the brain an alternative energy that
makes the brain resilient against extreme environments and can also
have an anti-inflammatory effect, enhance certain metabolic processes in the brain,
it can also change the neuropharmacology of the brain. And what I mean by that is like,
we have neurotransmitters in our brain like glutamate and GABA, serotonin,
dopamine and other things. We do know that the being in a state of ketosis even produced acutely
with an exogenous ketone can change the ratio of glutamate to GABA. So GABA being hyper excitatory
and many neurodegenerative diseases are pathophysiologically linked to excess glutamate
production. So glutamate is excitatory and GABA is inhibitory, but we make GABA from glutamate with
an enzyme called glutamic acid decarboxylase. So the ketogenic diet and exogenous ketone
seem to activate this enzyme that takes a neurotoxic neurotransmitter when it's at
high levels and converts that into a brain-stabilizing neuroprotective neurotransmitter or the ratios of
this. So this is some of the work that evolved out of our mouse studies, but actually other
people have shown this in mouse mode, I think in humans too. We just recapitulated it not with a
ketogenic diet, but with a ketone ester. So this gives us kind of, from a fundamental standpoint,
you're changing brain energy metabolism, reducing oxidative stress, reducing inflammation,
and changing brain neuropharmacology. So this was early on in our experiments that we were
doing these things. So I realized it has major implications for not just, it has implications
for everybody. So that because I was studying something that people could read a paper or hear
me talk, it was relevant to their lives, whether they're trying to lose weight, control blood
glucose, have more energy. Most people know someone with cancer, like it was maybe something that
they could use as an adjuvant or if chemotherapy fails or something like that. So there became
more public interest in what I was doing. And I took advantage of outreach opportunities
because podcasts were, I mean, prior to, you know, maybe 2010 or 11, I'd never even heard
podcasts. These things were happening. But the more I did, the more opportunities came to me
and the more I took advantage of, you know, using that platform to get our research out.
And I think when you really, I wasn't as passionate about the drug research or the
compounds I was studying, even though I was fascinated, you know, I would read paper after
paper and would be this compound was going to be remarkable. It never really would live up to its
expectations and experiment experimentally. But the ketogenic diet not only lived up to my
expectations, it exceeded it in everything that we studied, the ketogenic diet or exogenous ketones.
So that was very exciting to me because I'm in a pharmacology department. I don't think it was
very, maybe my chair and maybe committees were very enthusiastic of maybe one of their
faculty is going into basically basing their whole career on this high fat diet, you know.
So, but I knew it worked. So I was very passionate about it. And I knew the science was there.
It was very marginalized and grossly underutilized as a therapy for epilepsy.
And I felt that it had a similar capacity, maybe even a greater capacity for other things outside
of seizures and epilepsy. So then I kind of embarked on many different experiments to test
and evaluate nutrition, in particular the ketogenic diet and using nutritional ketosis as
medicine. And that was a springboard. How specifically did the ketone esters affect navy
divers? So they have not, well, they have not been used in navy divers in a registered clinical
trial. Okay. So right now we have a registered clinical trial with Duke. And the protocol is
there are people in the field using it and that communicate with me in various capacities.
And they, they measured blood. So they are sort of their own end of one experiments,
but there are many end of one experiments going on. And that feedback has been very helpful for me
to understand what works, what doesn't work, what maybe does not work optimal as far as dosing.
And then I sort of apply that to like our animal studies. And our animal studies that are published
some of that information helps us to develop the clinical trials we have at Duke now.
And the protocol for that is very, it's, it's kind of simple in that they just do a modified
sort of Atkins diet, Atkins like diet or modified ketogenic diet that's pretty liberal. And I think
most people in the fitness community follow a similar ketogenic diet type approach. And the
requirement is that you just get ketones up to 0.5 millimolar. And they, they choose people that
are sort of in an age range of the Navy seals, I guess you could say, have maybe more of an
athletic background. So they're kind of surrogates for the seals, I guess you could say. And they,
they do, they measure everything from cardiovascular EEG brain activity, they put an arterial
cathin and that goes to a mass spec and they look at blood gases and everything you think of. And
they're inside probably the most advanced hyperbaric system on the planet. And they're also submerged
and they're also playing a flight simulator and they're peddling a bike at the same time. So it's,
it's a very, it's a very complicated setup and a very, very cool experiment. You could only do
these sorts of experiments at Duke University, but they just put them on a ketogenic diet for
three days and they give a supplement right before they get in and it puts them into a mild
state of ketosis, like maybe a state that I'm in right now, but not a huge whopping dose of a ketone
ester, because they're not FDA approved yet. Actually, we're in the process and I think maybe
they are now, but, and then in the futures, we can, we can do that for the particular type of
ketone ester that prevents seizures. So we're working with that now. So the studies that are
being done now with oxygen toxicity are to basically replicate what a diver would experience
on a mission in regards to the partial pressure of oxygen that's being inhaled. And so they're
inside a hyperbaric chamber and they have a mask on and they have people assisting them if they
actually have a seizure. They push them to the edge of a seizure and there's basically
EEG signatures that will tell you, warn the person looking at the data that an impending
seizure is about to happen and that's when they cut off the experiment. Oh my God. So I was amazed
that something like this got IRB approved, but it is, is a registered clinical trial
and clinicaltrials.gov and, and it is a testament to Duke and their, their staff. Bruce Derrick
is one and Richard Moon and Claude Pianodosi. These are all icons in the field of military or
of dive medicine, you would say. So if I tried to do it, it wouldn't get passed. So they have the
expertise in the background and decades of experience doing this kind of research. So that
research is ongoing. The pilot study has been done and now 40 participants are going through this
protocol. And then the next round, what we want to do is do sort of an extended ketogenic diet
because we do think special operations guys, we do think the diet is feasible for special
operations people to follow, maybe not the whole general military, but for special ops, a low carb,
modified ketogenic diet is feasible. And now exogenous ketones are palatable, tolerable, and
efficacious for elevating ketones. So we have sort of two technologies, one being a specialized
diet and another being a specialized supplement that if consumed will protect the individual
likely better than anti-convulsant drugs that we have. And not only would it protect them from
oxygen toxicity seizures, which makes diving safer, we think it also has a capacity after you're
adapted to the diet has the capacity to preserve performance resilience. So if you're at, you
know, one atmosphere on land and you follow a ketogenic diet, your performance is probably
not going to increase that much. So some people advocate that a ketogenic diet will enhance
performance under certain conditions in certain types of athletes or a ketone ester will enhance
performance. I'm not totally convinced of that data and I'm a ketogenic diet researcher. So I
should be biased. I think, but I do think that when you take an elite level warfighter and put him
into a situation where his performance will be compromised and he's in a state of nutritional
ketosis, that his performance will be maintained in that extreme environment. We call that performance
resilience. So we do research with NASA on NASA extreme environment mission operations,
where we live in a hyperbaric habitat or we live in an environment that's an extreme environment.
And in these cases, we are looking to basically maintain a level of performance or prevent a
performance decrement. Right. So that's sort of the idea here. There's you go on social media,
there's lots of discussion and chatter and arguing about is a ketogenic diet best for
strength athletes, bodybuilders, elite level marathon runners, cyclists, things like that.
That's where most of the discussion is. It's not so much in the I think I'm glad I'm not studying
the ketogenic diet for sports performance. It's kind of interesting and I keep up on it and I
contribute even to some papers. But I think the real the low hanging fruit of benefits of the
ketogenic diet are for people who really need it, like people that are overweight, people with type
two diabetes, people have seizures, of course, and then also the warfighter who's subjecting
themselves to particular extreme environments where we know the diet can be followed in his
operational setting and we know from animal data and emerging human data that it would be beneficial
in that environment. So where did this diet, the ketogenic diet originate from? When did humans
start eating this way? Yeah. Well, it depends on who you ask. But we knew that
going back from scriptural times, I think the Gospel of Mark talks about fasting and seizures.
Fasting produces a state of ketosis that's therapeutic fasting or starvation ketosis or
fasting ketosis. So that we knew for millennia that fasting had an anti-seizure effect.
And Hippocrates talked about food is medicine and also knew about fasting and seizures.
But it really, and some people will argue the ketogenic diet came at this point,
but it was really the Mayo Clinic in the 1920s, 2021, 22, were wilder and colleagues really.
They understood that fasting produced these ketone bodies in the blood and that if you took a diet
and gave almost pure fat with just a little bit of protein, so enough protein to prevent
protein malnutrition and the patient ate that diet, their corresponding hormones like insulin
biomarkers or blood metabolites like glucose and most importantly, it's ketone bodies,
were shifted in a direction that looked like fasting, even though it was eucloric, which means
you can't fast, you can only fast for so long to control your seizures. But if you follow a
ketogenic diet, you're getting all the calories that you need for energy and enough protein to
maintain body tissues and function and to prevent protein starvation. We do not need
carbohydrates, there's essential amino acids from protein and essential fatty acids from fats,
there's no essential sugars, carbohydrates. So we could eat a diet that's completely
eliminates carbohydrates and feed that diet with a macro nutrient ratio, which means fat
to protein to carbs, carbs being almost non-existent and maintain the patient on that and they would
it mimics the effects of fasting. It's much different than fasting. Well, it's different
than fasting, but it shared many of the metabolic physiological and neurochemical effects of fasting,
the anti-seizure effects of fasting. So that was in 1920s and then the diet was actually used as
an epilepsy therapy until about the 1960s, late 50s to 1960s and anti-seizure drugs came along
and they kind of dominated epilepsy or seizure therapies for quite a while, but they never
really worked that well. There's about a third of patients who just don't respond at all and the
patients that do respond still get a lot of side effects. In some cases, the drugs are remarkably
well. Some people will be advocates of the, some people who are advocates of the ketogenic diet
will say the drugs don't work at all and that's not the case because I meet people
where the drugs are really life-saving to them, but I also meet people like Mike Dancer who I
connected with. If you just look up Mike Dancer in epilepsy, you'll find his remarkable story of
a half dozen or more medications that failed and the ketogenic diet was really the only thing that
controlled his seizures and you run into a lot of people like this and the story that probably
dominates is the story of Jim Abramson, Charlie Abrams. Charlie was on a half a dozen different
medications for drug-resistant seizures and his father, Jim, took it upon himself to educate
himself about the ketogenic diet and going to the library of all things and telling Charlie's
doctor that he needed to be on this diet, but he faced resistance because the doctor did not even
want to put his son, you know, this doctor's patient on the ketogenic diet because they
thought it was going to be too difficult to follow and the doctor probably just didn't
know enough about it, but even though it was the standard to care, so essentially he switched
doctors. Charlie got treated at Johns Hopkins, I believe, and within a very short amount of time,
it controlled his seizures to the point where Charlie could be weaned off the diet over a year or
two and the story was so remarkable. It made Dateline, NBC and I saw that back in maybe 1996
or something and Jim Abrams was friends with Meryl Streep, so Meryl Streep did a movie about
the ketogenic diet called First Do No Harm and it was the Charlie Foundation and this movie First
Do No Harm, which really got me motivated. I sent all these links to my program manager at the time
and it was, I connected with a leading scientist including Dr. Jung Rowe, who was at the Barrow
Neurological Institute at the time, treating patients and also doing science, so it was a
combination of things in the media, personal stories, people that I knew and I think most
importantly, I mean there was really solid PubMed peer reviewed academic research supporting
this therapy. It was working as an anti-seizure effect because it made the brain work better,
so I knew it had implications for other things but nobody else was really looking at these other
things, so actually one of the first experiments that we did was actually a mouse model of Alzheimer's
disease. We started the intervention, the ketogenic diet intervention, kind of after
these mice sort of have the Alzheimer's pathology, which is these amyloid plaques, toxic plaques form
and once that happens it's hard to reverse, but our studies did not show it was therapeutic in the
realm of preventing Alzheimer's disease because these mouse models really are not very well suited
to study the disease but we did see an increase in motor performance, so they would run faster and
farther on like a treadmill device, we call a rotorod, so that was very interesting and then
but other people have published, including NIH, showing that the ketogenic diet and
most of the researchers on a ketone ester delayed the progression of these amyloid and
tau plaques, which are the hallmark characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, but I believe they got
ketone levels higher and they started the intervention a little bit early, so the take-home
messages that if you have, you know, are predisposed to Alzheimer's disease, you want to, it would be
prudent to start the intervention early and that could be a diet, that could be supplementation.
What is the plaque that you mentioned and how does that plaque bring on Alzheimer's? Yeah,
it would be a good question. This is like, there's amyloid beta plaques and tau plaques and
the etiology of this tauopathy or amyloid plaque accumulation, the reason for it happening is
a academic question that has not been sufficiently answered yet and it's very ambiguous how these
things develop, but you only have Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is defined more or
less postmortem by showing when you open up, you know, dissect the brain and find these plaques.
There are new technologies that are emerging that are essentially positron emission tomography or
PET scans that can scan for amyloid and tau and so we have technologies now that can actually image
the presence of these plaques and the progression of the plaques over time with different therapies.
So this is relatively new and but some institutes are doing this. So it is not really understood.
Genetically, there are molecular things that are being turned on that accumulate these that
cause the body to form these toxic plaques, but the question is why does the body produce these
plaques at all, right? I think it's and this is controversial, but these amyloid and tau plaques
are produced in response to inflammation in the brain and also at the root of that could be a
dysregulation of metabolic control. So another hallmark characteristic of Alzheimer's disease
is a decrease in glucose metabolism. So in FTG PET scan, which looks at glucose metabolism,
the brain is very dim in patients who have Alzheimer's disease relative to a normal subject.
The image is much brighter, which is indicative of the brain using high levels of glucose for energy.
A hallmark characteristic for Alzheimer's is glucose hypometabolism.
You need a robust metabolic activity to deal with a number of processes in the brain,
including dealing with processing the amyloid plaques and Alzheimer's and the body needs
to get rid of them through a series of enzymatic reactions and things that are cleaved and the
lymphatic system, the brain has a lymph, so which activates at nighttime when we sleep.
So there's a lot of things that we're learning now that could be the root cause of it.
So it's the disability to burn the... You're producing too much plaque or you're not breaking
it down, sort of being recycled, but there's some of that amyloid plaques have antimicrobial effects.
So if you were to have a viral illness, things simple, like herpes simplex or HIV or...
Coronavirus.
Coronavirus, yeah. Yeah, that's a hot topic or Lyme disease, things like that. So there are...
There's evidence that Lyme's disease, that Alzheimer's pathology could be
a result of having a pre-existing microbial infection. And it could be viral, it could be
bacterial, but it's causing neuroinflammation. Neuroinflammation is causing metabolic dysregulation
and the accumulation of these toxic plaques. And you can also be... There's... Genetically,
you could be predisposed. We have different... If you're an ApoE4, ApoE44, that genotype will
make it more likely that you'll have Alzheimer's disease. And if you're reached the age of like
75 or 80, there's a pretty high probability that you'll have Alzheimer's disease if you
are genetically predisposed and have the ApoE genotype, ApoE4 or 4-4.
Yeah, I mean, it makes so much sense as far as like evolution goes and animals go, like going
back to what you said about physical performance. If you think of like an animal who hasn't eaten in
two weeks, right, it has to have that extra boost of energy to be able to catch its prey and to eat
and having those ketone bodies, I guess, in their blood really does affect them that way.
Well, if I guess put it another way, like if an animal is in a starvation state and could not
readily use ketone bodies for fuel or be able to function from a cognitive or mental point of
view or physical point of view in a mildly hypoglycemic state and not have robust access to
its body fat and then the ketones that are produced from that, they would not be able to
forage and catch their prey. So they would not survive. So evolution would not favor
individuals, animals that did not keto adapt, we say over time. So I think there's a pretty
big component to that. But I think our modern lifestyle, the foods we eat, our maybe lack of
activity, prevent us from having limited food availability. So we essentially silence that
that that gene program that would otherwise be activated in the face of
short term fasting or long term fasting. So when we fast, not only does it completely change
our metabolic physiology, it changes our brain chemistry, the neuro pharmacology of the brain,
but it also activates genes. So we say it has an epigenetic effect. And we have pretty good evidence
now that once that those gene pathways are activated, it can enhance ketolytic enzymes,
which are enzymes that allow ketones to be used as energy ketogenic enzymes, enzymes in the liver
that can allow the robust production of ketones under certain states. And then the transport
of these ketone bodies, which are through these things called the monocarboxoc acid transporters,
like the transporter proteins get upregulated pretty robustly when you fast a person or when
you put them on a ketogenic diet. And then if they go off the diet completely, and then go back on
again, they are much, they enter into the state of ketosis much, much faster. So there's some animal
data that suggests that and of course data in people. So the more you do it, the easier it gets.
And maybe the more benefits you derive from it too. And I think that is supported in the literature
now and also, you know, and it kind of lends to this idea of metabolic flexibility. So if we're
on a carbohydrate based eating program, and we're eating carbohydrates continuously throughout the
day with small meals, and we never restrict it, then we never are making our body flexible to
using other types of macronutrients. So one thing about one thing about humans is that we are
remarkably adaptable. And we are true omnivores, whether you believe in the carnivore diet,
or the vegan diet, plant based diet, I think the truth is that humans have evolved and survived
and do so well because of their omnivorous capacity. And we do, we can do fine off eating meat and
meat only, but is it optimal? I don't think so. We could do, we can live and survive off eating a
vegan diet. Is it optimal? I don't think so. So the optimal diet is the omnivore diet. So whether
both sides want to agree to that or not, but it's a hot topic. You've dedicated your life to it.
I've actually dedicated my life to a diet that's pretty radical metabolic therapy, a clinical
therapy. So the ketogenic diet is very extreme. And I don't think it's, it may, for some people,
it may be optimal, obviously, if you have seizures or epilepsy or something like that. But
is it optimal for the athlete? Is it optimal? I admit I follow the diet, but every day I eat
dark chocolate and blueberries and probably some greens and broccoli every day too. So it's not,
it's not a version of a ketogenic diet that a person with epilepsy would follow. Although
our, the science is evolving to the point where the classical ketogenic diet, our understanding of
it is being, that it's, maybe it was too restrictive and that a more modified or more
liberal forms of the diet may be actually better, definitely better for adults. But
in the pediatric population, it's always prudent to start them on a, on a classical ketogenic
diet with almost 90% fat and then see how they react and then maybe be a little bit more liberal
and transition them to kind of a diet that I'm following. You can also incorporate
different types of fats like coconut oil or medium chain triglyceride oil, perhaps even
exogenous ketones, but that's still in a state of being studied now, that the introduction
of those types of fats and supplements could make it possible that a much more liberal diet
could be followed and still maintain therapeutic ketosis, which would be have an anti-seizure
neuroprotective effects. So I'm, that's, that's like sort of my wheelhouse. So that's what I'm
very interested in doing because this therapy, the benefits of the ketogenic diet are not very
accessible to people because they, they don't want to exclude an entire macronutrient from their diet,
which would be carbohydrates. So I think there are true benefits to some of these plant-based foods
like, you know, chocolate, blueberries, coffee, arugula, broccoli, things like that. There's
definitely some real benefits to eating these foods. And I think that excluding them is not a
great idea, especially for following it for the duration of your life. And some people have to
do that for their disorder. So we're trying to work and engineer diets that would be feasible for
someone to follow, but their feasibility, their efficacy may only be, they may only be efficacious
when ketogenic fats and ketone supplements are also incorporated into the diet. And we think of
those things as food, like exogenous ketone. A ketone ester is a calorie-containing molecule
that is kind of unique. It's like a fourth macronutrient, but it can be incorporated into the food
and make that ketogenic diet more efficacious. It can augment the therapeutic potential of
your diet in different ways. So this is an area that I study and that we are doing research on now.
So what do you believe the optimal diet is for just the average person who may not be a professional
athlete, you know, maybe goes to the gym a couple days a week, has a desk job or has just a normal
nine to five? What is your opinion on the optimal diet for that kind of person?
Yeah. Well, the diet that's not optimal is probably like the majority of people after a
certain age eat too many calories, right? And surplus calories will result in sort of metabolic
arrangement and type 2 diabetes and just being overweight. So we are more likely to eat surplus
calories if it comes from processed carbohydrates in a combination of sugar and fat, right? So sugar
and fat are two things that you want to limit in your diet, the combination of the two. But fat,
yeah, the combination, like salt, sugar and fat. But a ketogenic diet is extremely high in fat.
And if a ketogenic diet is by definition devoid of carbohydrates, it's the carbohydrates that
can spike the insulin and kick you out of ketosis that makes the benefits of a ketogenic diet.
It negates it. So if you're on a ketogenic diet and you have, you follow the ketogenic diet perfectly,
but have, you know, a couple pieces of candy a day, you're not going to be getting the benefits
of the diet from a neurological standpoint, at least from an anti seizure standpoint,
because a child could eat one piece of candy and have a seizure. And this has been shown
many times. So it kicks you out of ketosis. And then your brain goes right back into,
it activates your brain in a way that triggers a seizure. We don't know exactly why this happens.
But it depends on the individual, I guess is my point, is that if you're trying to lose weight,
a diet that is formulated, and that could be a vegan diet, it could be, I don't think it's
optimal, or it could be a carnivore diet. But I think the optimal diet, for if we're just going
to make a blanket statement, is a low carbohydrate, a diet that's low in carbohydrates, but is sufficient
enough in plants that you're getting phytonutrients and fiber, I do believe in fiber. Early man had
sometimes 100, 150, 200 grams of fiber in their diet, if you look at it. It depends on the period
too, if you look back in history. But having studied, I did study the evolution of human diet
through college and read a number of books on it. And one thing that was really apparent is that a
lot of fiber was eaten. But an optimal diet would be devoid of processed carbohydrates and sugars
and sufficient in protein from batty cuts of beef, fish, poultry. The beef, ideally, not everybody
can afford it, but from pasture raised grass fed animals. I think that's obviously much better
for the environment. Concentrated feed law operations are very destructive to the environment.
And when you make a statement when you buy your food, if you're supporting this kind of agriculture,
I do believe that GMO foods can be destructive too, having come from a farming background.
We are farmers too. We have had to feed the cows in the morning and get them. So I spent a lot of
time on the farm and feeding cows before coming here today. And I know there are
proper ways to farm and improper ways to farm. So I think when you purchase your food, you're
kind of making a statement, but also you're choosing a type of food that's inferior if you're
going in the direction of your food from factory farms. So that's one consideration.
People put a lot of time and effort looking into the subject. That's all I'm going to say
about it for now, but I think that the macronutrients are most important in regards to
just like human nutrition. So I believe you're in a higher protein diet anywhere from I think
10 to 15% is like what's recommended by the USDA or ADA. And I'm kind of more along the lines of
20 to 30%. And with the balance being 50 to 70% of my calories from fat,
just because I can do ketogenic diet research, I tend to follow the ketogenic diet. And I do get
probably anywhere from 5 to 15% of my calories from carbohydrates. And I can stay in ketosis
with that level of carbohydrate consumption, especially if I'm incorporating ketogenic fats or
I'm pretty active. And I have a lot of blood work to back up that that's working for me.
Yeah, if you look at my blood work now, 45 ish. And if I go back to I'm 25,
my blood work at 45 is much better. When I'm 25, I was probably getting about 300 grams of carbs a
day, not like crazy amounts, but I was eating a lot more food too. So that's a big part of it.
And the reason the ketogenic diet works remarkably well for losing weight and weight
maintenance, a lot of people can lose weight, but not a lot of people can follow an eating
program that maintains that weight loss. And I think a ketogenic diet can do that remarkably well
by maybe some may argue is that it's it's unpalatable. So you're just less likely to eat
more, right? If you're excluding carbohydrates, but it has an appetite suppressing effect.
So that's pretty clear in the literature. So that's one reason the most of the people who are
interested in the ketogenic diet are interested in its weight loss effects. So I think people
need to know that it's not a magic diet. I think Dr. Atkins advocated that there was a
metabolic advantage that suppressing the hormone insulin can allow you to eat actually more calories
and you're burning more calories. I don't think the science supports that. Some evidence there
may be some evidence that that's true, but it's very negligible. The big effects of the ketogenic
diet for weight loss really come down to its ability to produce inadvertently calorie restriction
and allow people and you're getting the benefits of ketones too, which after you adapt to the
diet, you feel more lucid, you have more energy over time, but you feel crappy the first month
typically. That's the keto flu, right? That people typically get. I never really had that.
And I think maybe athletes, especially elite level, not that I'm definitely not elite level
athlete, but I did go through periods where I would go through calorie restriction and then
calorie surplus and stuff when I was tinkering more with weightlifting stuff. But I think that
athletes enter something called post-exercise ketosis. So if they go out on a bike for four
to six hours, they burn up all their glycogen, they tap into their fat, they come back, they're
in a state of ketosis, even though they're eating 300, 400 grams of carbohydrates a day,
they can enter that state. So I think they are just by definition more metabolically flexible.
So when they follow the ketogenic diet, many of them do quite well and don't have a keto flu.
Keto flu is probably also due to electrolyte imbalances or diuretic effect, a mild diuretic
effect or hyponatremic effect, excrete excess sodium, things like that. Magnesium may be a
little bit low too. Mine was a little bit low. And probably the only supplement that I take
for the ketogenic diet is a magnesium supplement. Now, I don't think I need it now because I think
I've adjusted my diet, but it's something that was a little bit below normal at a point in time.
I was probably not putting my diet together well. And that strike me as kind of odd and explain some
of the cramps I was getting, which is a potential side effect of the ketogenic diet.
And I've always used magnesium at nighttime. So can you walk me through what your day looks like
as far as what you eat for breakfast, lunch, dinner? And can you also give me kind of a
beginner's grocery list for someone that wants to get started in this, someone who's really
interested in the keto diet? Yeah. Well, today I didn't eat anything. So yesterday I did.
If we use yesterday as an example, or maybe tomorrow, I'm trying to get my schedule tomorrow.
But about two or three days a week, I do intermittent fasting. And this is a subject
we didn't really talk about. But intermittent fasting is something a lot of people are doing,
and it's eating within a predetermined window, also called time restricted eating.
So you could eat within an eight hour window, say from 12 noon to 8pm, and nothing after that
time or before that time. That pushes your body into a mild state of ketosis. And if you're on a
ketogenic diet, since you've already adapted to using fat and ketones for fuel, it's easier to
follow intermittent fasting. So today I'm doing intermittent fasting and my meal will probably,
my first meal will probably be about 2pm in the afternoon. And in my bag, I have wild planet sardines.
And I have wild planet sardines, and maybe we'll go out and have a salad somewhere. And I'll probably
put that on the salad, and that'll be my first meal kind of of the day. But yesterday it was,
we have chicken sausage, and we have eggs. So I think I had sausage and eggs for breakfast.
But my food list, I kind of wrote down sort of what my wife does shopping. But like fatty cuts of
meat, poultry, and we get like the whole chicken usually with a bone. So my wife's Hungarian.
And she introduced me, which is pretty big in the carnivore crowd is eating organ meats. So
all the organs. So mostly we eat hearts and livers. And that's a big staple in our diet. So we eat a
lot of heart, a lot of liver, a lot of beef tallow, like beef fat, we'll use that for different
things. We'll make stews. I get most of our beef actually through Butcher Box, which is an online
service. And you just order it, you subscribe to it, and it just comes to you. Yeah, it's grass fed,
grass finished. Yeah, Butcher Box meats. The other company that has superior meat is US Wellness
meats. Their products are very good too. And they also have like organ meats that you can buy. They
have like you can get ground heart and make like heart burgers, it's ground up with like beef fat
and things like that. So that and fish, a lot of fatty fish like sardines, like I said, it will be
my next meal. Which are delicious, by the way, I tried them recently after hearing the Tim Ferriss.
Yeah, well, while planet has so they reached out and cut and sent me sort of, I didn't know that
they have like all these different fish varieties. So while planet actually has all different types
of sardines that you can go and they have all many different types of tuna fish to and cans and
packets and they also have chicken. And they're super big on sustainability. So they've done their
homework in regards to sort of regenerative farming for fish and sustainability. So I feel good
supporting them purchasing their products. Butcher Box, US Wellness meats are sort of where
we get a lot of our food from we go to the local butcher to and get like big bones for the dogs
and ground meat and stuff like that. Occasionally, we feed our dogs what we eat. Sour cream, something
I have every night to fill basically to get in extra calories. So at the end of the day, I'm
usually calorie deficient. Just because my days are pretty busy, but I make like a chocolate mousse
at night using coconut cream, sour cream and dark chocolate bacon cocoa. But now I have different
powders that are like collagen powder, like chocolate collagen powder that's like lightly
sweetened with stevia. So I like throw a scoop of that in with sour cream and blueberries and
something really simple, like every night's like a different recipe. But that's what I had last night.
And I'll stir that up and it'll be probably like 70 grams of fat just from the sour cream.
And then a scoop or two of chocolate collagen with wild blueberries. So I get a couple different
companies sell wild blueberries and I buy those. That and salad, greens, olive oil,
MCT oil, you know, butter, grass fed butter. What about the coffee? What's your coffee cocktail?
What do you put in your coffee? Yeah, so today, well, I'm drinking, I'm not advertising for them,
but purity coffee, let coffee be thy medicine. It's really good coffee and I'm not trying to
advertise for them. But I have, you know, people send me different coffees that I like to try.
So I typically I have a French press and I make about almost a liter of coffee in the morning,
not super strong and not super weak, just kind of, and I have one cup and then I pour the rest in
this. And then I typically finish this before noon. And I tried to get no caffeine, definitely no
caffeine after like 2pm, but usually try to cap my caffeine by 12 noon, because I'm really big in
the sleep, sleep hygiene, sleep, I monitor these things as part of what we study. I saw that on
your Instagram. So a lot of times I don't put anything in my coffee, but there's a particular
product out that's really good. It's called Momento. It's really marketed towards cognitive
function and Alzheimer's disease. And it's got everything from MCT to theanine to versions
of choline that can enhance acetylcholine, acetylcholinergic function. So I've been putting
one serving of that in there. So it supplies some MCTs, which but it's not a whole lot of
calories. So this that's the only sort of calories that I had in my coffee today. So
I've been because we've been really busy in work and on the farm and everything a little bit less
sleep than normal. And I noticed when I have that the I do notice this particular supplement is sort
of giving me the caffeine and the theanine team seems to take the jitters off of the extra caffeine
and then I'll get in the morning. So that's what I've had today. So the MCT and the butter?
Yeah, I don't always use butter. I don't have butter in this because it has a blend of essential
fats, DHEA, EPA, MCT, again, the company's called Momento, and it's a new product that I'm trying.
I met them at the Metabolic Health Summit, which is I'd encourage your listeners to go to the
Metabolic Health Summit if they're interested in anything that I'm doing. It's like a top tier,
you know, academic, clinical, and also entertainment. We had JPCers there. Oh, wow.
So he was our entertainment for the gala. It's an amazing event, but Momento was they had a
booth there and it was the first time I'd heard I knew it was coming out and I had two samples
of it and I've been using it and I love the product. So only about 20% of the things I actually try.
Do I like say something like this? Okay, you try a lot of stuff. I do. I have a lot of stuff that
I still need to try. A lot of things I shelve. But yeah, I love to try products. I do a lot of
testing on myself, you know, and we have various technologies where we can look at things like
reaction time and like decision making. Yeah, there are things that were experiments that
we're putting together for the next national NASA Nemo mission and also high seas mission,
which would be in Hawaii. So we're gearing up to do to study a lot of things as far as performance
wise on those missions. And so it'd be kind of fun to test myself. Oh, yeah, definitely. I remember
you mentioned something about you spent like 10 days underwater for some sort of study. Was that
a NASA study or? Yeah, so NASA has to prepare astronauts for space. You know, they have what
they call space analog missions. And there's about 14 space analog missions. And the mission,
the only mission that I know of that actually uses astronauts is the NASA extreme environment
mission operations. And this I was on mission to my colleague, Don Crenegas was on mission 21,
Nemo 21. And I had the amazing opportunity to be on Nemo 22. And my wife was on mission 23,
actually. So we're like super lucky. That's crazy. And she ran a lot of the science my wife did on
mission 22 when I was underwater. So they pair you up with a crew. And typically, they have a
couple astronauts on there. My commander was Shell Lindgren. And he's been on the space station
about a half a year and also Pedro de Cue, who is now the science minister of Spain. But he flew
with John Glenn, I think in 95. So he was a very accomplished ISA astronaut. And then the NASA
astronaut was Shell. And he was also a medical doctor. And also Trevor Graf, who is sort of a
planetary biologist, geologist at NASA. So that was the three crew members. And then there's two
habitat texts who just make sure we're safe when we do our EVAs when we go outside of the habitat.
So we live in saturation in this, you know, if you're a scuba diver, you know, you can only go
down for so long before you get the bends or yeah, so nitrogen and narcosis if you go down to or you
get DCS or the bends, right, decompression sickness. So we we kind of throw out the tables, right,
when we're in saturation and you dive down there and you stay down there and you cannot come up.
You know, if you come up mid mission, you'll die a very painful death, right, right. So you live
down there for we live for 10 days, each mission is a little bit different. Some I think my wife was
nine days, some are 14 days, some are seven days. So but what NASA holds these missions to basically
vet out procedures, technologies, you know, different things that are can be used for deep
space missions, right. The idea is to look at crew dynamics, to look at different widgets,
you know, that monitor sleep, that monitor cardiovascular function, that monitor exercise
devices we'll test down there. We had a device to rescue an astronaut who's been incapacitated
and we live inside the habitat, but during the day we go outside of the habitat and that's called an
extra vehicular activity or an EVA and then we'll have a whole list of tasks to do that could take
anywhere from four to six hours. So we are in a suit, we maintain, you know, we're living in the
saturation state and and everything is done, you know, pretty much how it would be if you're
living on Mars or how they envision it would be. There's this thing called playbook. So everything
is organized from day one, what you're doing, what the next guy is doing, everything is very
organized, the safety and the crew at the mission control that's run by FIU on so there's like mission
control and there's a lot of scientists and engineers that are on mainland and we're out in
the Atlantic at the bottom of the Atlantic a couple miles out, but mission control really
calls all the shots. So we have communications all the time, you know, telling us what to do and we
have a pretty demanding schedule from the time we wake up, you know, they give you like two hours
of personal time at the end, but that's really just preparing for the next day. So it's probably
one of the most, it was probably the most amazing experience of my life being able to do this and
be among those people who are such high achievers and operating at such a high level, I was able
to learn from them, you know, up my game, I mean, because we all have to do the same thing, you know,
my first task was using the mini DNA analyzer and sequencer when I got down there and it broke
when I was using it, my device didn't, so they had to like bring another device down. So I was
starting like a couple hours late and that screwed up the guy who was coming after me, so it was like
you're put into the stress environment, but stress is one thing that we measure, right? We do salivary
cortisol, we wear monitoring systems, a Polar V800 chest strap at nighttime, looks at things like
heart rate variability, our sleep. So, and my wife is interested in looking at like crew dynamics
and what they call cognitive or team cognition. So the group functions together as sort of a team,
there's certain dynamics and when stress, when things break down and when things just go awry,
that can influence team cognition. So when things go bad and things break or, you know,
within reason, you know, you don't want someone to get injured, but some people have like little
cuts and bruises and little things like that, it stresses the team out and but the
behavioral scientist people or the people who study stress, then that day becomes more interesting
to them if something goes wrong because they can collect all the sound bites of the communication,
they can look at the HRV, they can look at salivary cortisol. So a bad day for the crew when
things go wrong, it becomes an interesting day for the behavioral neuroscientist. You know what I mean?
There's so many teams working on this, most of them from NASA, some from ESA and some from
outside institutes like universities out Florida, which we operate through. Actually, I did it sort
of is more or less took vacation time to do it because it was sort of like an independent thing
that we that we were doing outside of the university. But we want to we're, we think that
the Aquarius habitat is where the NASA, these space analog missions happen, is an amazing
opportunity for someone like the Office of Navy Research or NAVSEE or the Department of Defense
to do research in this habitat because it simulates sort of the life that a person on a submarine
would have, or you can simulate saturation diving, which is super important commercially, right?
There's so many things that you could study scientifically in this environment. We think
that the federal government would be interested in funding, you know, other academic projects on
that. So I did it, I did as, you know, as a crew member on this space analog mission, sort of
independent from my university, but we are sort of gearing up to hopefully compete for funding
from like DARPA, DOD, Office of Navy Research, NAVSEE. We think that these types of missions
that could be independent from NASA and on their own really offer a lot to federal agencies
to understand these extreme environments for the warfighter, for the astronaut, for the commercial
diver, things like that. So we plan to do a lot more missions undersea. That's incredible.
That's fun. Yeah, I can imagine. Very fortunate to be able to do it. Long term
fasting. Yeah. How often do you do long term fasts, like over like three days or more? And
maybe that's not the amount of time you do it for. Basically, how often do you do them and how
many days do you do them for? And can you explain some of like the benefits, like low hanging fruit
per se, benefits to a human to practice these kind of fasts? Yeah, for fasting. Well, I became
interested in fasting because of the work that George Cahill did at Harvard Medical School,
where he fasted subjects for 40 days. And this was published and I kind of delved in and read
everything I could. And that was sort of my introduction. It's probably going back to 2008,
like reading this paper. And then a big review was written about him in 2006, which I was aware of,
but didn't really read it thoroughly until 2008. Then it became apparent to me that once your body
is after about three days, I mean, your brain is basically your body's just cranking on ketones,
so which is being released from your fat stores. So your fat gets into your blood, it goes to your
liver, your brain can't really use the fast for fuel. So it converts from the ketones. And
there's a gradual shift from glucose to ketones. So I became very interested in doing it myself.
And it was probably about, again, about 10 years ago after reading this, that I decided to fast
for seven days. And I've never fasted that long since. But I have done a lot of three-day fasts,
especially when I'm traveling, if I'm by myself. My wife and I like to sit down to dinner every
night and have that. So sometimes, you know, I do the intermittent fasting, but I only,
typically when I'm by myself or doing some kind of experiment, why do three or four days? And
sometimes if I'm sick too, if I feel something coming on, I'll fast and then I never get sick.
Really? So I believe, you know, fasting can rejuvenate the immune system.
70% or more of your immune system is kind of in your gut. And a lot of immune system energy
is spent dealing with the stuff that we're eating, right? So especially if you have leaky gut.
So you're eating food and say your gut's not in the best health, right? The tight junctions that
hold the epithelial cells together in your gut, if they become loose or whatever, you're letting
small particles and things get into your bloodstream that otherwise would not be there. And your immune
system has to work. They recognize these, these things as antigens. So your immune system is
working hard to neutralize some of these antigens, right? When you're fasting, your immune system is
like, it's like looking for something to do, right? So it's just like hanging out. So if you have a
little bug or virus or something, then it becomes more vigilant to basically deal with that. So
that's how I think of it. Okay. But after I've been delving into like, how does fasting affect
immune system? So the way I envision it, and I'm not an immunologist, but it's very apparent that,
you know, food, it puts massive demands, especially if your gut health is not optimal on
your immune. Even if you have optimal gut health and everything, a lot of time and energy is spent.
A lot of a lot of immunological resources are spent dealing, you know, with food. So fasting is
a way to sort of regenerate the immune system. It stimulates things like autophagy, right,
which could be beneficial calorie restriction could sort of do the same thing. But fasting does
it sort of been a hyper activated state. So it can improve your metabolic health. It can lower,
you know, insulin, lower blood glucose, elevate ketones, which can be beneficial.
Fasting can be a way of sort of just maintaining your calories, like through intermittent fasting,
but long term fasting really puts the body into a state of stress. And the hormetic response or
adaptor response to that stress is where we get the benefits, you know, you might feel good when
you're fasting, you might have a headache, you might feel crummy. But after if people stick with
it, after about the third or fourth day, you start feeling almost normal, it's a little bit
scary. And actually, at the seventh day, I felt fine. I just felt my energies were kind of low.
I felt a little bit cold. Like, you know, the AC was too cold, like my metabolism was shutting
down, but I was still clear, I was writing grants. And actually, the work that I did during that time,
that grant ended up getting funded. And I think I got a couple manuscripts out during the week
that I didn't eat anything, you know, did I talk classes and stuff to did I hear correctly that
you dead lifted an absurd amount of weight after like a seven day fast?
Yeah, that was on the seventh day. Yeah, I think I taught in the morning and I did some like fitness
camp later in the day. And that night, you know, I knew I was like, well, let me work out, I had
done some light workouts, just like chin ups and push ups throughout. Because I do think it's important
to do resistance training if you're fasting to help maintain muscle. But if you do something too
strenuous, right, you're accelerating catabolic processes and you don't want to necessarily do
that. But I did find it very interesting as a litmus test for my strength, strength deadlifts
are pretty good litmus test for that. And, and I was kind of cautious not to go too crazy because
I didn't want to break form and get injured at the at the end of this, that would be like really
bad. And people was like, don't, but you know, as I as you're warming up, you have an idea of how
much, you know, so it's like 135, 225, 315. And then 405 felt really easy. And then so I did like
five plates and the collars and stuff. So it was about 500 pounds. And yeah, I did that for 10,
I just kind of stopped at 10. And I didn't, you know, really feel I didn't even get sore the next
day or anything like that. But I can typically do more. But so I didn't push myself. So maybe I
could do 585 at that time for about 10. So I did Wow, or 95 or 500 pounds. I usually do like six
plates for 10 by five plates, and it was not hard. It was about how it normally feels. Okay.
So that that was kind of it. If I was to do it again, I would take something like creatine
monohydrate. I would probably that's like a supplement, you know, that can help with training.
I would probably take I did take electrolytes. But I do plan to do it again. I just need to time it
right, you know, with I don't I feel like I'm master sizing my wife. I'm not eating dinner.
I'm like that. It's like more of a social thing. I think when I was doing it before,
I would just like have tea, like green tea in the morning, I tried to cut back on my caffeine
too. Yeah, that's that's one of my important question I really had for you was during those
long term fast of what do you can you do you have tea? Do you drink? What specific things do you
consume? Yeah, beef, bullion cubes, I had those, I would make I would just boil some water and
throw one in that. And that was actually like pretty satiating. I would look forward to that.
But I would I would have half of my normal cup of coffee, because I didn't want to jack myself up
on caffeine. But I didn't want to eliminate it because that was part of I'm habituated to caffeine,
you know, whether you like it or not. That's I think we all are we wake up and have our first
cup of coffee to basically deal with the caffeine withdrawal side effect. So when I first started
training, I use caffeine like twice a week, and the effects were pretty big. But I didn't want to
completely get off of it and then start caffeine again. So I just did less of it with green tea
in the afternoon. But that's all I had. Minerals electrolyte, some beef bullion. And I felt fine.
I think the third day was the hardest. But after that, it was pretty easy. And I encourage people
to do it, especially if they have any kind of, you know, hereditary, you know, predisposition for
cancer Alzheimer's disease or type two diabetes, things like that. I mean, it also, it's more of
there's physiological effects that are beneficial. There are, you know, psychological effects.
And, and there's just kind of like behavioral effects, right? I was writing down somewhere,
oh, not on this, but I was just kind of writing down all the benefits of
a fasting and there's really a lot. Yeah, I noticed I've done two seven day fasts in my life.
The first one I did was the beginning of 2019. The second one I did was just this past January.
The first time I did it, I played an hour game of basketball. And it was on the third day, I believe.
And I normally get extremely fatigued after about 15 minutes. And I can get that like that side
stitch cramp, you know what I mean? I have to stop take a couple, couple breaths, drink some water.
And I noticed after 30 minutes of playing, I had literal, literally zero fatigue. I felt like
terminator, you know what I mean? I felt like I could go forever. Another thing is I went to the
gym and I was able to do about three times as many pull ups as I normally can. Wow. I can't,
I couldn't, and I was, that was before I would ever learned about you before I had listened to any
talks on it. I didn't know what key ketosis was. This was last year in 2019. And I just literally,
I was explaining this to people and I could not wrap my brain around how I was able to do so many
pull ups and play basketball for so long with zero fatigue. This kind of explains it. Yeah,
body weight exercise too. I didn't push myself to the edge, but I think I would jump up and do
like 20 chins, like outside our house or whatever, like on a tree. And I didn't want to push it,
but that those 20 reps, which are like fairly strict chin ups felt pretty easy. Like if I go,
I can do about 36 or 37 jumps or something like that. But the 20 just felt really easy.
And you can make them a little bit harder. You can kind of like stretch the lats at the bottom
and then contract the top. And towards the end of it, it was like trying to make the chin ups
harder. So I would do the 20, but like super strict contract. And I knew I didn't want to
sort of stress out the body too much because, you know, I was worried that, you know, fasting,
but I probably didn't need to worry. But yeah, but yeah, when I do a big lift,
I don't fast seven days, but I do like to go into it relatively fasted. And I feel that
if my body's not dealing with digesting, assimilating, mechanically, you know,
to enzymatically, it's not dealing with a meal that I have more energy and resources to activate
muscle. And I feel my feeling intuitively is that my central nervous system can activate
the muscle better. It's almost like those pathways, neurological pathways are activated
when I'm in a semi fasted state. I think if I fast for more than like 24 or 48 hours,
my energy reserves are generally going to be a little bit lower. And that might be not,
it might not be advantageous for a max lift, but maybe for like body weight exercise,
but when it comes to doing a max lift, I would never go into it. Like a lot of guys eat right
before they get to the gym or whatever. I would typically fast probably at least six to eight
hours, sometimes 10 or 12 hours before, if I, if I'm like really going for a max or heavy lift.
Yeah. But I would eat up the, the weeks, the days before, maybe even start out three or four days
before and start eating like a lot of red meat. And so whenever I set a PR, I kind of have this
whole sort of thing that I go through where I eat up and I ramp up like 25% more calories,
like kind of two days out and I kind of adjust the protein and everything. And it's not super
scientific, but I kind of, I put, you know, portion things out a little bit different than I go
into a calorie surplus the day before, but that day of I go into that, that max lift fasted.
Okay. Like when, where some people would think it's insane, you know, 12 hours fasted, but
my strength is definitely more. My, my nervous system is better at recruiting muscle. I'm pretty
sure of that. I need to do the EMGs to show it, but I think it would be an interesting study to do.
Yeah, definitely. Do you, I mean, do you find that in the scientific community,
people look at you differently based on, you know, if you look at your Instagram, for example,
I mean, you're deadlifting weight, you're eating tons of meat. I mean, it doesn't look like you're
a scientist. I don't think, I don't think that, well, if you're, if you're studying like sports
science, you know, I mean, there's a lot of meatheads, I guess you go to like a, a sports science
thing, like bodybuilder, powerlifter kind of guys. This is something I've always done since the age
of like 13, 14, you know, lifting weights. My brother was like a huge bench press monster, you
know, I don't think I've ever even caught up to him on that. I mean, and he's not even, he's never
even drank a protein shake before. I mean, he's just into hunting and fishing and just when he's
passed him by the bench, he'll just put four plates on it, a weight of like 185. He's repping
with like 405. So I think the genetics were there for that. Although he doesn't train legs or back
even, but he's still, we worked on a farm together for a while. He always was just like that farm
strength and just like a crazy bench strength. So that really motivated me as a kid to sort
of try to be as strong as him, but also when I played football, I got into it. So that's always
been part of like who I am, but I don't necessarily, especially now want to make it my persona to do
that. But I want people to know, for me, strength training is really
an anti-aging therapy. And I think for me, it's also like a psychological therapy. I don't know,
I took a year off of training with weights, but I was working heavy on the farm doing a lot of
labor. And I take the dogs for a walk every night and jump up and do a couple sets of chin-ups and
push-ups and dips. So I was doing all that kind of stuff, but I took a year or more completely
away from weight. So I didn't even pick up a weight. But when I got back to it, I realized
there is a difference between sort of like lifting weights and just kind of playing around on the
farm and doing push-ups and chins. I mean, that stuff, I still do that stuff, but lifting like
serious weight where the bar is bending and it's almost like a life or death kind of thing.
Yeah. And the whole mentality of approaching the lift is kind of what I enjoy. It's like,
I actually envision a scenario where it is life or death. And I'm kind of a calm person. So
I do some mental gymnastics to basically create like a life or death scenario or something that
kind of gets me my sympathetic nervous system activated where I can do that. And I miss sort
of that whole routine of doing that. So now I'm kind of embracing that. I've been doing that for
the last couple of months now. Back in the gym, I built, my wife and I used to go to the gym,
but then we just like didn't have time. So I was like, okay, I'm just getting some weights. I'm
going to put it in the house. And so I am enjoying the home gym or barn gym a lot now and doing that
probably about three times a week. So that, but I don't think I get really a stigma or
sometimes people criticize me online for, you know, doing certain podcasts or
you know, doing research on a fad diet or I try not to sensationalize the results that we have.
And I talk within the realm of the published science. And I think that's important,
especially when you're doing things research related to cancer, because I do get lots of
emails from Alzheimer's patients, cancer patients, patients with rare disorders.
And I do not try to over promote or oversell the diet in any way, shape, or form. I try to do the
opposite actually. And there are a lot of people who are advocates of the ketogenic diet that just
go too far. And I try to be a voice or reason that's somewhere in the middle. There's a lot of
antagonistic people who really maybe you're out to get me too. And they just say the ketogenic
diet is dangerous. It's not. Yeah. Why do you think that is? I think there's different. I think
maybe they actually believe that. But I'm coming at it from the perspective that the diet was a
very powerful medical therapy for epilepsy. And that's really, I study seizures. That's most of
my funding comes from studying seizures. So I'm convinced of that. I guess the pushback comes from
the ketogenic diet as a lifestyle. And like I said, it might not be optimal for most people. It's
probably not the clinical ketogenic, but a modified form of a low carb diet is undoubtedly,
I feel, optimal getting back to your question for humans. In no point in history did we have
access to the level of sugar or processed carbohydrates that we do now. So it just makes,
I mean, it's like, it just makes obvious sense to not necessarily eliminate these things, but to
minimize them in our diet. So right now they are the predominant source of calories in the diet.
Yeah, they really are. It's crazy. The federal government gives out food stamps or
they give out supplements to people to buy food and they're using those supplements for
sugary drinks and they're using it for processed carbohydrates. So we need to subsidize vegetable
growers, fruits and vegetables, predominant fruits are a pretty good part of that too.
But our government is basically, their programs are supporting
the purchase of heavily subsidized commodities that are sort of linked to the corn industry
and soybean. And these are all things I grew growing up on the farm, right? So I'm kind of
keenly aware of it, but policy needs to change. Mark Hyman wrote a great book and is really on
top of this, I would recommend his recent podcast with Peter Tia kind of covers that area. I mean,
I could talk about that a lot because I'm very passionate about it, but it's not my wheelhouse,
not what, it's more of a sort of just a hobby of mine that we are farmers to and we're trying to do
things the right way. Transitioning from a crop farm, a lot of people who follow a vegan diet may,
and I respect them for following it for ethical reasons, but I think they're a little bit misdirected
because even our farm, when we grew crops and having grown wheat and hay and things like that,
when you're running the hay baler in there, I mean, you're chopping up lots of animals,
you're chopping up bunnies, you're chopping up field mice and things like that. So,
transferring a crop field into a field that we have now just of cows with wheelings and
calves running around, just growing tons of grass, which is a huge carbon sink and you're doing it
to the point where max, you have one cow per two acres and you are also most importantly rebuilding
the soil, right? So, you are not using chemicals and you are raising, we have basically four rescue
cows that didn't come from very good conditions when the mom died, when it was like only a month or two.
That is actually, from a carnivore perspective, you are doing the earth a much bigger service by
basically developing a carbon sink and the animals will, we may rescue the animals and
keep them for, we may not sell them off, but we're basically raising beef and killing a lot
less animals by raising a carnivore food source, right? So, I do know from the perspective of,
I think a lot of, when we talk about different diets, the vegan diet versus carnivore diet,
and I understand the, an ethical reason not to kill animals intentionally for food,
but when you grow crops and you harvest those crops, you're killing a lot of animals. I just
remember very vivid of just seeing like a nest of bunnies, just, there's no way around it. I mean,
when you're growing Timothy hay, for example, or soybeans and things like that, there's tons of
animals that live there. And when you have just a pasture, I mean, the animals are free to roam,
it's like perfect conditions. I can show you pictures I took on my phone this morning of the
Spanish moss and the cows love to eat the Spanish moss and they're growing in the most
idyllic conditions and they're free to roam and other things are in the pasture and everything
is growing crazy, especially when the rain starts, it becomes an incredible carbon sink
and also rebuilding the soil too, that's part of it. But prior to what we have now, it was
intensively farmed, heavily treated with glyphosate GMO type crops, lots of fertilizer,
lots of chemicals, things like that. So we're, we really need to rebuild the soil. So we just kind
of, you know, with the tractor, just kind of just moving the soil around, planting grass now,
just getting everything growing. So I think when it comes to like food politics and what diet is
optimal for humans, and some people may favor a particular kind of diet, I think there's arguments
on either side, you know, what, because when you talk about a carnivore diet and you're talking
about concentrated feedlot operations, so that is very, that is very destructive.
What is it concentrated? What?
Like KFOs, when you have concentrated agricultural kind of feeding lots, the where the pigs,
chickens, or cattle, I mean, being the, being the thing that's probably most destructive,
they are put into concentrated quarters and they're basically, they're not,
they're not fed grass, they may come when they're born, they may, for the first year or so,
they may be in a pasture, but they're shipped off, they're shipped off to feedlot operations
where all their nutrition comes from sort of corn and soy and their,
their four stomach system is not really designed to digest, assimilate, and use this as an energy
source. So it makes sense. You gotta give them like a lot of antibiotics and they're concentrated in
areas where a lot of the manure and everything, there's significant runoff and if this runoff is
near crops, then E. coli like can contaminate, for example, the romaine lettuce or the spinach
and things like that, and then you have a massive outbreak. Also, you're more likely to get E. coli
in from the food from this type of feedlot operation because all the food, all the,
all the meat is mixed together. So if you have ground beef, you're eating beef from,
that package of beef could be from hundreds of animals. So if one is contaminated with E. coli
or another bug, you are potentially contaminating a lot of people. Whereas if you support like a
food co-op or a local small farm and you go there and I've talked to many people who run
these farms, I've watched many documentaries, read many books, no one gets sick typically from
these operations that have been going on and the federal government tries to crack down on them
because meat is supposed to be USDA inspected and it has to go through certain the paperwork
just to be an organic farm. Just so you can buy on the shelf at Publix. Yeah, just to,
because too, like only a couple companies really, there's a couple companies that monopolize this
industry and the small farms are taking away from that. So the federal government is actually,
it's their bottom line, right? So there's a lot of partnerships like people who work for these
companies. Yeah, they're on federal scientific advisory boards and they hold, they're influential
in the policies associated with this. But the small farms and we're trying to be a hobby farm now,
like people listening really need to go out and buy locally, support small farms
and it's going to be better for their health like overall, but really important for the
environment too. And I think if you go to a local farm, it may be a little bit more expensive
like upfront, but in the long run, I think it's going to save everybody money if you support
these. I think food will eventually get a little bit cheaper if policies start to subsidize these
smaller farms. So it really has to start with government. And I think a movement has already
started, but I think maybe in the next five to 10 years, government subsidies can help out a
lot of these smaller farms that I think are going to be really essential for building back the
environment. And I think food will probably, food will be much better undoubtedly, but I think
it'll be more affordable too because that's usually the pushback, well people can't afford
grass fed, grass feed, it's not convenient. Organic eggs are paying three or four dollars
a dozen, but I could go to Walmart and I think I can get, I get 60 eggs for like, and I do,
and I've done that for like four dollars and 50 cents because we give our dogs like eggs or
something like that. But when we can, I mean, we try to support these, these smaller farms
whenever possible, like locally. So we're trying to do that more and we're trying to basically be
sustainable just on our farm, you know, from an energy standpoint too with solar panels and
stuff like that. Oh, that's amazing. So where do you get your eggs? My wife buys them now,
but we, we buy them locally occasionally, but they could be as much as five dollars for a half
dose. But she goes, she's a big, she comes from Europe and she's, loves to shop at Aldi. So Aldi
has certain standards. So, which was it, because I was kind of get on or buying like all this plastic
and stuff, but we recycle everything, but Aldi has a new program now, they're phasing out all their
packaging is going to be like biodegradable the next couple years. So I mean, they are usually,
and it's like, I think they're like non GMO like organic options and stuff too. And it was always
kind of cheaper too. Have you shopped at Aldi? Just grab a box. Yeah. So we get a lot of stuff
from there. Occasionally we'll go to Publix and stuff. But like I said, we get a lot of the meat
from some of these companies like US Wellness Meats is great. We're eating their stuff now.
Okay. And butcher box too. And butcher box. Yeah. Pretty good. Yeah. And I think
it's really hard to find grass finished. Like you can get grass fed, but grass finished,
a lot of times what happens is cows will, the last month or two of their life,
they'll be put on the feedlot. They'll be raised like their entire life and a pastor, right? So
they're pastor raised, but they'll be fattened up towards the end. And it does make them happy.
I mean, you could take some of the pellets and stuff and, you know, I've taken a handful and
our cows, I mean, it's like candy and it's like high protein and it's like everything, but it's a
mixture of grains and things like that. So we just try to let them, if we feed them, if the
pastor's not suitable enough, like this time of year is like the driest part. Now we're getting
into the rain season, but we'll just get some, hey, like a combination of Timothy and alfalfa
and things like that and spread it around and just make sure, you know, we don't feed them corn or
how do you tell if it's grass finished or not? Grass finished? Well, it'll say it. Oh, it will
say it. Okay. So butcher box is, they have grass finished beef and it's very hard to find. If you
find it at the stores around here, you know, sometimes I post and promote butcher box because
some of the affiliate links does come back and support our research. So I kind of justify it
with that, but I also justify it that when they criticize, it's not that expensive. It comes out
to like $7 a pound or $8, but it's really quality beef. And if you bought similar grass
finished beef at a store, it would probably be more. It's just so hard to find, you know.
But another thing is that they have to, the company sources some of their beef from Australia,
so some of it, but they're now they're working with, or they did about a year or two ago,
because I was asking them where they're getting their beef as a cattle farm.
But I think they're working with smaller farms now to basically, you know,
because it's becoming more popular and the demand will kind of influence the supply.
Personally, if you were to be diagnosed with some form of cancer, how would you treat yourself
personally? Would you use the standard of care with chemotherapy, depending on what cancer it is,
and how would you alter your lifestyle and your diet?
It's a bit of a loaded question. I know, sorry.
No, I'm glad. I get asked this question a lot. It really comes down to the type of cancer.
Like, I know friends and colleagues of mine kind of feel that cancer is sort of, you know,
all one disease. And I think there's a lot of truth to that. But also understand that, you know,
I have people that are close to me that have cancers, for example, leukemia, acute myeloid
leukemia is an example. I know people with multiple myeloma, lymphoma, testicular cancer
had one or two or three students or three people that I know, responded very well to the standard
of care. And some of them did the ketogenic diet some didn't. So it really depends on the type
of cancer. I got into this looking at brain cancer. So it made sense to me because I realized,
oh, brain cancer patients have seizures and they're on heavy doses of anti-seizure drugs sometimes,
but they're also put on something called dexamethasone, which is a corticosteroid that really
disrupts your metabolism and elevates your glucose in a way that's feeding the cancer.
These corticosteroids do. So I thought the ketogenic diet could be used for that. And then
the more I started looking to it, I saw that Thomas Seyfried had published that a calorie
restricted ketogenic diet targeted tumor metabolism in a way that was highly efficacious, at least
in animal models. So it really I'm just saying this because it really depends on the type of
cancers. A couple reviews have been written about the types of cancers. So things that are really
metabolically demanding cancers. And these are cancers that would show up on a PET scan and
FGG PET scan. So if someone has a type of tumor, a solid tumor in particular, that's really hot on
a PET scan, and that means that it's sucking up massive amounts of glucose relative to the
healthy tissue surrounding it. So what a ketogenic strategy does, and it could be used as an adjuvant
to the standard of care, is that it lowers glucose availability to the tumor. And most
tumors really have accelerated glucose metabolism. And that's driven in part by insulin and insulin
signaling, like IGF1, the PI3 kinase, AKT, mTOR pathway, I don't want to go down that road,
but it's activated, it's driven by glucose insulin and the insulin sort of pathway, right?
So if we suppress the hormone insulin, we can do that with nutritional ketosis,
especially if it's calorie restricted, that basically is knocking down a major driver of
most cancers. Like it's pretty safe to say that I would say 80% or more cancers are really driven
by this PI3 kinase, AKT, mTOR pathway. When these pathways are hyper activated and insulin
being a driver for that, it accelerates cancer growth and proliferation. So one way to take the
foot off the gas pedal of this cancer growth and proliferation is to knock down one of the main
pathways accelerating it, which is insulin. And how do we knock down insulin? Through carbohydrate
restriction and to some extent protein restriction. Also fasting, intermittent fasting, where we go
through periods of time restricted eating. So if we were to do this prior to the standard of care,
like chemotherapy or radiation, it makes the tumors more vulnerable to modalities that kill
through what we call an oxidative stress mechanism. So if you limit glucose availability to a tumor
and if you're in a fasted state, the tumors ability to create its own antioxidants, glutathione
being a major one, is a bit impaired. So you can enhance the cancer killing effects of chemo and
radiation if the patient is in a fasted state or on a ketogenic diet. We also think that hyperbaric
oxygen therapy, which increases the partial pressure of oxygen in the tissues and thereby also
enhances oxidative stress. And the oxidative stress is higher in cancer cells because of the
aberrant mitochondria that they have, they spit out more of something called superoxide in response
to increasing levels of oxygen relative to normal cells. So you'll have enhanced oxidative stress
in cancer cells, also more free heme. And when it drives something called the Fenton reaction,
you don't need to know that, but listeners may be familiar with these pathways. But it creates a
scenario where oxidative stress is higher just by using something that's relatively non-toxic,
like hyperbaric oxygen therapy within defined limits. And then if you give radiation or chemo,
that could enhance the efficacy of that, especially in the context of a ketogenic diet.
So radiation and chemo could essentially boost the effects of hyperbaric treatment?
Yeah, well, the efficacy of radiation is proportional to the PO2 of the tumor, right?
So if you radiate a tumor that's hypoxic, the radiation killing effect of the tumor will be
dependent on molecular oxygen that's inside the tumor. So if you hyperoxygenate a tumor, or if you
reverse tumor hypoxia, because a lot of tumors, they grow so fast that outstrips their ability,
the vascular church can't keep up with expanding biomass. So the inside of the
tumor, the core of the tumor becomes anoxic or hypoxic. But if you, with hyperbaric oxygen,
the oxygen is transferred to the tumor, not by blood vessels, but it's in plasma.
Hemoglobin is already saturated. So it gets oxygen to the plasma, and then you hyperoxygenate the
tumor, reverse the tumor hypoxia, and then apply the stimulus, the killing stimulus. So that could
be chemotherapy, it could be radiation, it could be immune-based drug too. We call this the press
pulse theory. So if you Google like press pulse theory and a publication nutrition metabolism,
this idea that you create a stress on the cancer cells by nutritional ketosis,
drugs like metformin, intermittent fasting, exercise, meditation, things like that creates an
environment that compromises the tumor's ability to grow or decreases its ability to grow.
Being in a fasted state will also make the tumor more vulnerable by weakening its antioxidant
defenses and also suppressing certain growth pathways, that PI3 kinase pathway. And then
other modalities will work better. So that could be hyperbaric oxygen therapy could be used, but
chemo, radiation, and immune-based therapies too will be more efficacious in the context of a press.
So a press and then a pulse therapy can be delivered ideally like two or three weeks on,
you know, three weeks off, something like that. It depends on the particular agents, but there's
also metabolic drugs that can be used too. And some of these drugs are toxic like
2-deoxyglucose, 3-bromopyrruvate, loneitamine. These are things that target the glycolytic
pathways. And we use these sort of these things experimentally. But I think what patients who
are listening maybe can go and look up the press pulse concept. And we just basically put a paper
out as a concept. Here's an idea. We are working with different people that are moving this into
the clinic. And some people are just doing it because right now there's not a whole lot of
clinical trials that are incorporating this. Although I have to say that when I started
studying this, the ketogenic diet, there was maybe two clinical trials. And now I looked this morning
before coming, there was 39 clinical trials. And about many of them are ongoing or recruiting
too. So now these are, many of them, a lot of them are top tier institutes like doing things.
And then I looked up fasting. I had never went on to clinicaltrials.gov and putting cancer and
then fasting. And hundreds of trials came up. Not all of them are relevant, but there were dozens
of trials looking at the effects of fasting before chemo and radiation. Many, the first couple
were using the fasting mimicking diet. So, Volter Longo, who's on the West Coast, developed a diet
that's essentially used five days per month. And it's a hypochloric diet that puts the body into
a state of ketosis, mild ketosis. And this type of diet can be used in conjunction with a standard
of care. And it's sort of a commercialized version of a ketogenic diet, and it's mostly plant-based.
So it has some unique aspects to it. One could formulate their own ketogenic diet
or their own fasting mimicking diet just by going to the grocery store and formulating the foods.
So the science is really ongoing and it's emerging, but they have dozens of registered
clinical trials looking at the effects of fasting and cancer as a means to enhance
standard of care. And patients should also, if they're interested in being part of these clinical
trials, clinicaltrials.gov, that's basically the site that has registered clinical trials.
So look up ketogenic diet and then whatever cancer you have, whether it be lung cancer,
endometrial cancer, liver cancer, something like that. So look up to see if maybe a clinical trial
is in your area and you might be able to participate in that.
When they talk about the hyperbaric oxygen treatment, did they use
those like tube things that like LeBron James gets into after his basketball games,
where he lays down and like it's kind of like a coffin-shaped tube?
Yeah. Is that what they use?
Well, that would be, that's a monoplace chamber. And yeah, so that could be one of
ways there's also a multi-place chamber that you could use. But if you go to a hyperbaric oxygen
clinic, what they may do is most of these clinics actually, there's 14 different FDA-approved
applications for hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Oh, really?
One is decompression sickness. If you're a diver, you know, you come up with the
bends, you go inside a hyperbaric chamber. The other is for, I mean, there's a lot,
but the top ones would be diabetic wounds. So wounds, people who have diabetes, their blood is
like sludge. So they're not getting enough oxygen and nutrition to the wound. So it begins to fester
and grow. And hyperbaric oxygen therapy, hyperoxygenates the wound. A wound is hypoxic and
the energy levels in that tissue are knocked down by like 90%. So hyperbaric oxygen therapy can
restore metabolism. We also believe if you put someone on a ketone supplement or, and one of my
students, Dr. Shannon Kessel did her PhD dissertation on the effects of nutritional
ketosis and wound healing and is remarkably effective at enhancing the wound healing process.
And we think if you couple it with hyperbaric oxygen, it would be, you know, diabetic wounds
or chronic wounds. It's like a multi-multi-billion-dollar health problem right now that people have,
typically with type 2 diabetes, but people have bed sores, right? Like these wounds, they don't heal.
Nutritional ketosis is one. So hyperbaric oxygen is used for that. So you have multi-place chambers,
you can get in, you go in, you read a book, you listen to music. Sometimes the walls of the chamber
are transparent so you can see what's going on in the room. And then you have a multi-place chamber
where you get inside the chamber. It's pressurized to like say two or 2.5 atmospheres at hyperbaric
air and then you put the mask on and that's 100% oxygen and you breathe that mask and then you reach
hyperbaric oxygen therapy levels. You take the mask off. So if you have a seizure,
you could take the mask off and then you go from hyperbaric oxygen to hyperbaric air,
which the partial pressure of the PO2 will be low enough that you won't have a seizure.
Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense. So we're breathing 20% oxygen now,
a hyperbaric oxygen chamber, you're breathing in a monoplace chamber, you're breathing 100%
oxygen typically or thereabouts. And when you get inside a multi-place chamber, it's 20% oxygen,
but you put the mask on, that becomes 100% oxygen and hemoglobin is already saturated, right? But
the oxygen gets into the plasma and that's the benefit to wound healing. That's the benefit to
attacking a tumor is that tumor vasculature is like erratic and not very good. So the tumor
becomes hypoxic, but if it's in the plasma, it can penetrate that tumor. And then oxygen can kick
on reactive oxygen species that can start to kill the tumor inside out. And then you apply
most chemotherapeutic drugs, kill cancer cells through an oxidative stress mechanism. So if you've
already caused oxidative stress and you apply oxyplatin or cisplatin or something like that,
and then radiation too, then you have like, it creates a lot more die off on the tumor.
And then being in ketosis will protect your healthy cells and also sensitize the tumor cells
to more. So that was sort of, you know, some of the first publications that we did and people
are following up on that. Wow, that's amazing. How many more studies have come out on how many,
how do you mean the clinical trials you were saying that they're doing? Yeah, the clinical trials
is really, you know, we're not doing any because we're more of a basic science, but people look
at the research that we're doing and they say, Hey, you know, just some people give us a heads
up and it's like, you know, your, your research kind of inspired this clinical trial. Other people
were doing this research too. Dr. Thomas Seyfried was a huge pioneer and I just followed in his
footsteps and just used his model system. Lou Cantley is doing some work with the ketogenic
diet and targeting this PI three kinase pathway with different drugs. Dr. Adrienne Shek, she was
at Barrow Neurological Institute, has really a pioneer in glioblastoma, which is the deadly
form of brain cancer. And her work has inspired, you know, the Barrow Neurological Institute
and the lead clinician there, Chris Smith, to sort of advocate that patients with glioblastoma,
glioblastoma followed the ketogenic diet prior to them coming in and having surgery
because it helps shrink the tumor and makes it a smaller target that they can resect it and they
get better outcomes, you know, after, after surgery too. So I've been communicating with some of those
patients. And obviously it's a super hot topic right now, the coronavirus. What, what sort of
knowledge do you have about viruses like that and kind of like what's going on with it right now?
There's a couple of cases in Florida. What, what would you say to people about that kind of virus
and sort of like mitigating it or, you know, what is your knowledge or, or research, if any,
on stuff on viruses like this and how to avoid them? Well, you know, I've taken the basic course
like human or, you know, pathogenic microbiology, virology stuff like that. So from what I know,
probably, you know, it, the people most concerned are people immunocompromised,
they're very young and they're very old. So just the standard sort of things, wash your hands,
stay away from people that are sick. There are many people that are asymptomatic. So we could be
walking around and be a coronavirus carrier, but be asymptomatic and not be presenting. So that,
that in that case that it might be good to just, you know, stay at home when, when you can, you
know, because you don't know who a carrier could be. So I think that's important information.
Our immune systems are really a function to some extent on our systemic and metabolic health,
right? So I think nutrition is really key. We want to not over nutrition compromise the
immune system, lack of sleep compromise the immune system, elevated blood glucose can
compromise the immune system. So things like intermittent fasting, low carb diets, ketogenic
diets can make the immune system more vigilant to be able to deal with these types of things,
you know, if they happen. So we're better, better off to fight it, you know, in the context.
I think there's some studies out there, you know, showing, I know there's studies,
Adrian Scheck, the, the researcher that I mentioned showed that the immune system becomes
more vigilant with a ketogenic diet in, in regard to anti-cancer immunity. So increasing
natural killer cells and things like that, that can better attack, you know, the cancer.
I believe that's, that's the case for viruses and microbes too.
I know you mentioned earlier that when you feel like something coming on like any sort of bug
or something, you will automatically go into like a two day fast or something.
Yeah, I do. I actually pay a lot more attention to my sleep, staying hydrated.
If I don't completely fast, I cut way back on calories and just go into a calorie restriction
state. But typically, yeah, I'll, that's when I'll start and say, okay, well, time to do a
short term fast and I'll fast for a couple of days. Yeah. Yeah. And I just hardly ever get sick.
My wife will get sick, you know, multiple times and I'll get, I feel a little something come on
and it'll never really hit or our lab just went to LA. It was kind of alarming that some of them
got sick about how it really, and I didn't really get anything and, or I felt a little scratch in
my throat and a little sniffles, but nothing ever happened. So I think my immune system is
definitely a lot better now than it was when I was not doing the Q-jank diet. Back in college.
Yeah. Like clockwork, when I would, you know, finals would come, I would almost always get sick.
The end of November, right around that time. It was like, like clockwork and sometimes even
in the spring with finals. So our immune system is really tied to psychological stress, I think
can wipe our immune system out. I mean, looking back through his periods of time where, I mean,
physically, I was doing everything right, but I was just put under a lot of psychological stress
and it just like crushed me. Really? Yeah. And just a couple of times, you know, that I can't remember
when certain life things just come up, you know? So I think people really need to pay attention
and just kind of harder to, a little bit harder to manage, right? But, but be cognizant that
our mental state and behavioral effects, behavioral health probably have the biggest impact on our
immune system. So something a lot of people don't think about. Stated otherwise, yeah,
psychological stress can be in a very powerful immunosuppressant and make you a vulnerable
target to something like coronavirus. So our kind of philosophy is that we're like nature people. So
we allocate a certain amount of time each day for creative downtime where we get out, we go in the
woods, we explore things, we have a lot of property around us that we have that are just
mostly forest. So we do forestry too and spend a lot of time just outside with our pets
and unplug too from your devices. So I think it's important, you know, a certain time at night,
I just put my cell phone on airplane mode and just unplug and we do some downtime stuff like,
yeah, two or three hours before bed. Yeah, obviously better. So like super important,
I think for people's psychological health, because we're so wired and just so attentive
to our phones and that's kind of we're very reactive sort of species here and we do it and
we don't even know that it's compromising our health. So I think it's important for people
to recognize that. Yeah, I think I also it really resonates me when you talk with me when you talk
about sleep and how much you pay attention to sleep. I recently started, I recently got a sleep
number bed and it tells you like how you slept gives you like a score and how restless you were
or whatever. And it's paying attention to that. I've really noticed a huge difference in like,
you know, my cognitive clarity, you know, how well I feel during the day and, you know,
getting sick less. It's a huge difference. And I keep going back for some reason on this podcast
to basketball references, but LeBron James, I read all his interviews where he talks about
his number one, his number one thing that's most important to him when training or anything like
that or nutrition or practice even like the number one thing most important thing to him is sleep.
Like, yeah, sleep cannot get in the way of anything. And he rigorously sleeps nine to 10 hours a night
and takes two to three hour naps every day. And it's like, it's the ultimate. And he has,
he has his own personal hyperbaric oxygen chambers he travels with. And like, yeah,
yeah, that's a big topic. So hyperbaric oxygen can increase stem cell production. It also
stimulates the release of those stem cells and those stem cells can go in and hone in on sites of
injury and inflammation and enhance the repair processes. So it's debated on how that works.
But if they hone in and they collect in a certain area, they also release various growth factors
that can help in skeletal muscle protein synthesis and repair maybe anti inflammatory effects.
So I'm not convinced of the science, but a lot of people send me papers and say, look at this,
should I be using a hyperbaric like NFL players and things like that for that kind of stuff?
Yeah. And I say, you know, it look, I haven't seen any big but clinical trials, but the basic
science kind of says it's there. I know Steven Thaum, who's also funded by the office of Navy
Research was one of the first to show that hyperbaric oxygen therapy almost works like
this drug GMCSF, which is a sort of an activator of our stem cells and can recruit
increased levels. And it's used therapeutically and cancer patients and different patients
that it almost has the same ability as this is drug, which is extremely expensive to actually
influence the production and the release of stem cells. So GMCSF, and I think it's
lukine or nupigin, you know, if you go, these are very expensive drugs that are used for
a number of applications, some of them experimentally for like neurological diseases,
but also cancer patients and stuff use them for different applications. So
so granulocyte, mono, yeah. GMCSF and GMCSF. So lukine and nupigin. So these are drugs I'm
not super familiar with, but I became familiar with it when some discussions were about hyperbaric
oxygen, we're referencing these drugs in relation to the ability of hyperbaric oxygen
to recruit and stimulate the production and release of stem cells that can enhance,
you know, tissue injury and repair. So so there is, I get a lot of questions about
hyperbaric oxygen therapy in athletes and I think there's some, I just say the jury's still out,
but I think, and I do that to be protective because my contracts are actually to study
the negative effects of hyperbaric oxygen. So I study oxygen toxicity seizures,
which are the seizures that are generated from hyperbaric oxygen being too high.
So I study the negative, I built my whole career studying the negative effects of
high pressure oxygen and why we need to avoid it and develop mitigation strategies against it,
but understand that hyperbaric oxygen therapy is within a defined limit and that limit is set by
the potential to get oxygen toxicity seizures. So within that therapeutic limit, it can have
anti cancer effects that I talked about, you know, it can have, there's 14 different FDA approved
applications. So an emerging application could be recovery of athletes, you know, from this. And
I think there are these home hyperbaric chambers that you can get on eBay for like 1500 to 2500
dollars. They may provide some benefit if you're a high end athlete and it gives you that
0.5 percent, you know, benefit or if you're recovering faster, you know, that it may be
something to invest in. I mean, science is pointing it to it, but it's not I'm not completely
sold on. Is there any any benefit to someone like, you know, like you or I to have that in their home
kind of like as a therapeutic thing for someone who just casually works out or wants to be healthier?
Yeah, well, you know, I, I communicate a lot with vets. So people with traumatic brain injury
and concussions. And I think sadly, this is an area that's not FDA approved. So I would encourage
people to check out, you know, the use of hyperbaric oxygen for traumatic brain injury,
concussions. We know that hyperbaric oxygen at very high levels is a stimulant to the brain,
and you can overstimulate it to have a seizure, right? But when it's done at lower levels, lower
therapeutic levels, it can augment and it can reduce inflammation. It can stimulate processes
where the adaptive response is the repair of the injury. And when you have a concussion or a blast
injury, it's rupturing blood vessels. So you have these hypoxic pockets. And when you go like
these areas of the brain that don't have enough oxygen, that's what I mean by that. So hyperbaric
oxygen therapy can restore oxygenation into those areas and start to enhance the healing
process in the brain. So there's a lot of data to support it. And we will be presenting at
hyperbaric oxygen therapy conference 2020. And we're a lot of vets will be talking about this,
NFL players. And I think we need more research, but I think the research is pretty good with stroke
injury and hyperbaric oxygen and animal models. And now some evidence in patients. So it's not
an FDA approved application, but another consideration that needs more attention, federal funding.
If you have a traumatic brain injury, a concussion or stroke, I think people should look into,
I'm not going to advocate it because I need to stay within the realm of it. But I think people
really need to look at the potential for hyperbaric oxygen therapy. And we're always trying to get
research to study this, because I feel it's one of the most important topics that need to be studied,
brain injury, traumatic brain injury and using hyperbaric oxygen, in addition to ketosis. So
the two together, we feel would be very therapeutic for recovery of patients, especially if it's
done immediately after, but even patients maybe that had the injury a while back, we think it
would have some benefit if they start. Wow. Well, that's been a bunch of that's been a incredible
amount of knowledge you just dropped. I really appreciate you doing this, man. I've kept you
here for about two hours now. Well, thanks for having me. I appreciate having platforms speak
about this stuff. Yeah, man. Absolutely. It's a privilege to be able to have someone like you
on here. So hopefully we will get the opportunity to do it again in the future. And oh, yeah,
tell everyone where they can find you online and learn more about what you're doing or.
Yeah, go to, we have a company, Ketone Technologies LLC, but that company is more
research and development, but we have a website that talk about what we do as a company. And
also Keto Nutrition is really my main information website. I don't sell any products on that,
but if there's products on there that I've used and recommend and that I use personally, and there's
consultants on there, there's podcasts on there, like the Tim Ferriss, Joe Rogan podcast are on
there and stuff. So it's more of an information website for people. And it's kind of like a
one-stop shop. And we also have a blog. So check out the blog. We've hit a lot of topics that we've
discussed and the blog will go into more depth and detail on each of those topics.
What is the blog called? It's, if you go to ketoneutrition.org, it's a dot worksite.
It's just the blog. So just on the bar at the top, just click on blog and it hits
things from different types of ketone supplements to diabetes to all sorts of topics on there.
So yeah, but it gets into a little bit more detail. Awesome, man.
