I was involved in Freemasonry not necessarily by, because I went for it.
I was teaching an entire police department to be remote viewers and they happened to
all be Freemasons and so I got involved in it that way.
But then I started studying it and what it was about and the important thing to know
about Freemasonry is it's not all the bullshit that everybody tries to make it out to be
like this nefarious process.
It's not.
Freemasonry actually came into existence because it's a school designed to teach you
how to be a man.
I mean women have this really clear biological line, right, from when they become, they stop
being girls and they become a woman.
That doesn't happen for us.
Nobody sets us down and teaches us how to live rightly, act rightly as a man, what our
responsibilities are towards ourselves, those around us, towards our creator, whatever you
ascribe that to be for you.
And Freemasonry is precisely that.
It has two different tracks that you can take, but it is the school of manhood.
It is to teach you how to live a life reviewed, how to live a life that is looked at by yourself
and by others and analyzed and evaluated so you can not just set off on an azimuth and
be whatever you choose to be, but that you can set off on an azimuth and constantly make
azimuth corrections through your life to be better, to be better, to be better, right?
And the idea is to leave this life knowing that your life was an examined life that you
lived, a fruitful, capable, powerful life and the idea is to be remembered and your
death regretted kind of thing, you know, it's that kind of an idea.
Where did it come from?
Well, it started in the 16th century, like in England, and you know the whole story
of the Knights Templars evolved out of it, which they did, but that's where it was started
and that's what it was.
The Illuminati is an entirely different operation and that had its own genesis, you know, in
origins, which primarily came just out of the fact that in that timeframe in the 1700s,
you had, I mean, everything was basically owned by the church, right?
The Catholic church, so land was owned by the Catholic church.
They decided what books you could read, what books you couldn't read, if you could read
it all, they controlled everything and it was very autocratic and there was a kid whose
father was actually one of the readers for the church and the university was at in Germany
and this father, you know, once when the kid came in as a teenager, he had a stack of books
next to his desk and said, you need to look at these, you need to read these.
There's a lot of good stuff in there, but they were not going to go into the library.
They couldn't go into the library because the church wouldn't allow it.
The order would not allow it, but he wanted his son to become familiar with these things
and so he did read it and I'm shortening this considerably, but really what the Illuminati
became was this bastardized version of Freemasonry.
This German started recruiting guys out of Freemasonry and they started writing their
own charters for each of their degrees and everything.
It was really a competition with Freemasonry, the Illuminati Freemasonry and they were just
trying to bring, they were trying to recruit people from Freemasonry over into the Illuminati
and they made their stuff there, like their initiations and their ceremonies and that
stuff a little bit more drastic, I mean, not like sacrifice and things like that, but they
made it more macabre in order to get them over to try to set themselves apart from Freemasonry
is what they were doing and they were trying to, why would you want to do that?
If you have a club that has the most powerful men in the region in it and you're starting
a new club, so to speak, you want the most powerful men in the region, bringing the dollars,
the it, right, bringing the money, bringing, because they're all paying, they're paying
dues to be, belong to the Illuminati and when you read the documents, the original founding
documents of the Illuminati, it's almost, it's, it's almost laughable and it's so obvious
what they were doing and it really only survived for a few years, it didn't last for very long
and ultimately because the Pope and the king of Germany shut that crap down, they were
like, no, no, no, we're not having this and they shut it down and Freemasons also had
to get really quiet at that time, but the Illuminati is this kind of upstart men's club
at that point, which only attracted certain people, but it attracted some of the really
powerful people out of it and why would they come over? Well, not because it was more spiritually
enlightening, they came over because it was a new club and, you know, it was like even
today, if you came over as a marketing person and brought a bunch of people with you, you're
going to get compensated for who you're bringing over and the guy, you know, that founded the
Illuminati and penned all of the charter and everything we're going to do, that's what
he was doing. Hey, come with me, bring these guys with you and I'll make sure you get this
percentage of their dues to belong to our club and the more we get, the more you'll make
and that's how it started in the Illuminati until the leadership in Germany and the leadership
of the church turned around and, you know, just said no more and, you know, started
imprisoning, torturing, executing others and the man that formed the Illuminati actually
is still buried in Germany. He's buried, he has a simple grave marker in between six
trees that are planted in a circle. What was his name? Oh, I'd have to look it up for you.
I mean, I'm too old to remember a show like that, you know. I always thought that the Illuminati
was made up by the media. I don't remember where I saw it. I think I saw it in an Adam
Curtis documentary, but I do know the first time it was written about in the U.S. was
around the JFK assassination. People started writing articles about it, you know, I don't
know what the purpose was. Maybe it was like purposeful. Conspiracy. Conspiracy. Yeah,
conspiracy. I'm looking at, here it is. This is my lecture on this and so this is the guy
that found it, Adam Weishaupt. Interesting. Yeah. So you were teaching remote viewing to
a police department? I've taught it to several police departments, yeah. Currently? You still
do that? No, no. Why were police departments reaching out to you to learn about remote viewing?
Well, you know, back when the book, which I hate the title of psychic warrior first came out,
it drew a lot of attention because it was the first time that anybody had connected the dots
to the military intelligence community and then this very bizarre controversial intelligence
collection methodology called remote viewing, which that's the first time those words were,
the phrase was ever used, remote viewing. Those were coined by Ingo Swan. And people continue
to bastardize it to this day, which just drives me crazy. I mean, somebody just sent me a friend
of mine, former VP of Sony Music, just sent me a picture of a bar in Manhattan and it's called
Remote View Cot-Tales. We see a cocktail in your future. Yeah, I'm not kidding you. And it's,
yeah, so. That's amazing. Yeah, what do you do with that? It has become like this
umbrella term now that encapsulates anything that anybody wants it to. I mean, there are like 72
different variants of human ability from, you know, clairvoyance to ESP, whatever you want to call
it, claircentance, clairaudience, clairvoyance, clair, you know, and it goes on down. And remote
viewing is just one of those things. Remote viewing is not at the top of the list as an
umbrella. Remote viewing is a dogma, a protocol. It's a learned process. And I often get into just
disputes with people that show up on, you know, various forums like on Clubhouse or something
else, you know, come in and go, well, I'm a practicing shaman and I'm a remote viewer. No,
you're not. Yeah. Have you been trained in remote viewing? No. Then you're not a remote viewer.
You're just a practicing shaman. I mean, how would you feel if I just one day stood up and said,
I'm a shaman? I mean, maybe this particular character would go, well, that's cool, you know,
whatever you want to be. But the truth of the matter is there are certain practices and priorities
and processes of learning. There are gates and, you know, there are things that you have to do
before you can turn around and accept that mantle and throw it out and say, this is what I am.
You don't get to just do it because somebody once wrote a book. Right. And that book then
tied this whole idea to a military intelligence collection methodology. And so now in order to,
in my opinion, kind of ride on that and to try to, you know, to be part of that wave,
that upsweep back then was to turn around and start calling yourself a remote viewer,
no matter what you did. I mean, no matter what you did, a palm reader, oh, I'm a remote viewer.
There's a guy out there now who's a seal, a Navy Seal, who does a podcast, not,
not Jaco. Okay. He's a legitimate guy. This other guy is. Jaco's not legit. No, Jaco is legit.
Oh, I thought you were saying he was legit. No, he's a legit guy now. This guy is, is legit. He's
a seal. Okay. And I know guys that know him because seals work for me, but he, he has written a book
called, you know, combat intuition and talks about intuition, but he, he doesn't just phrase it as
spidey sense or, you know, as intuition. He's actually applied remote viewing to it. So some
of my students, because I encouraged my students to go, you know, stick their beak into anything
that's out there and, and to participate if, if they want to. And so they were there listening
to this guy talk and they raised the hand and go, we're, you're talking about remote viewing. I mean,
were you part of the remote viewing unit? No, no, no, I wasn't that. Well, where did, where did
you learn remote viewing? Uh, I, I kind of just picked it up as I went along. Like, well, what
do you mean picked it up as you went along? I mean, did you take a class from anybody or read a book
about it or something else? Or are you just, you just assigning that title to yourself?
And he knew he was cornered. There are two women sitting in front of him. He goes, well, I just,
I just, I just picked it up. And I, you know, I think I watched a couple of videos on TikTok.
So it was something like that. And of course they were like, yeah, okay, there we go. So
uh, I think when you do stuff like that, it's certainly not, uh, it's not up there with stolen
valor, but it certainly is just something you shouldn't do. If you're not, if you've not been
formally trained in the protocol, then stop telling everybody that you know how to do it
because you don't. So I always thought whenever, whenever I have thought of remote viewing up
until maybe a couple of months ago, I always thought like, okay, yeah, you read palms too.
Come on. What up? What up? Maybe that's the CIA doing their job. Maybe that's the media doing
their job. But that's kind of like how I've always been in condition. I've watched videos of people
talking about remote viewing and my intuitive sense was just like this, okay, stop. Like this is
bullshit. Yeah. Um, and rightly so. And I really started digging into your background and listening
to your podcast with Sean Hazlett, amazing podcast, by the way. Um, and your book,
uh, it's, it seems like something that actually was utilized by our government and
other governments, right? Absolutely. Yeah. Now, but, so here's my question. Is it something
that's actually measurable and testable? Yeah. Absolutely. Um, look, it started off
at Stanford Research Institute international in, uh, 72, the director of the center on
intelligence agency found out that the Chinese and the Russians were working in various areas of
clairvoyance, uh, psychic ability. And the concern was the same kind of concern that drove,
you know, the MK ultra project, mind control. I mean, as nefarious as that was under Gottlieb,
you have to understand that these are individuals that see themselves as responsible for
protecting the republic. And if we have to, you know, if we have to cut a swath through a few
of the citizens of the republic in order to protect the entire republic, okay, I don't personally
ascribe to that, but we have to understand that's what these guys did. And they probably assumed
other nations were doing the same thing. They wanted to be up to speed. Their intel was precisely
that. And so their fear was that they're going to, they're going to learn how to control human minds.
And we're not, we're not even dabbling and we don't even know what to do. So
there becomes this race, you know, to develop that capability. And there's collateral damage
in doing something like that. It is there. And I'm not justifying it. I'm just explaining it,
that it's there. Horrifying as it may be. I mean, they, they know, uh, that there must be,
there are at least tens of thousands of individuals that were, you know, unwittingly exposed to and
participating in this kind of development and investigation and experimentation. But they
were doing it because these guys actually thought that if they didn't do this, they were going to
be behind the power curve to, from the Chinese and the Soviet Union at that time and anybody else
that we believe to be an enemy of our nation. Again, a horrible thing and a costly thing to
a lot of people. Uh, but that's, that's why they were doing it. So in, in 72 that, that the intel
comes in that says the Chinese are sequestering, they're going out and, and finding a youth from
various villages throughout China who have a reported, you know, clairvoyant capability,
ESP, whatever, and they're bringing them all in and they're, you know, they're corraling them
and they're training them and working to enhance them and going to use them as an intel collection
capability. And it's around about this time, you know, that the director of the central
intelligence agency says, well, are we doing it? And of course we weren't. And the response was,
well, then we need to be doing it. If they're doing it, we need to be doing it. We need to find
out if there's something to this. So they put out a, a request for proposals to various research
agencies. And the one that ends up getting the contract is Stanford Research Institute
International. Russell Targ, Harold Putoff and about 18 other physicists, mathematicians, scientists,
et cetera, and a whole truckload of, you know, natural gifted psychics and other people like
Inga Swan, Uri Geller, you know, Pat Price. I just learned all about Uri Geller a couple
weeks ago. Did you learn that he was a paratrooper? No, I didn't. He was a paratrooper in the,
in the seven day war. Yeah. He was paratrooper. He was actually wounded. Yeah. He jumped and was,
combat wounded. No way. Yeah. No, I learned when I, when I had that interview with the,
with the guy, Jack up in San Francisco, the one that you saw, he was teaching me all about Uri
Geller. I didn't know. He said he was a Masad guy. Maybe he got that wrong. I don't know if he was
Masad. He was a paratrooper. Okay. That I know. Okay. I mean, I, I spent a lot of time with Uri
back. Oh, really? Oh yeah. Back in the day, I did, like in the nineties, I've been with his family,
his wife, his son and daughter, and yeah, I've been to his house many times.
I'm sure it's, I think he sold that house now. I don't know, but I mean, I used to do long walks
along the Thames with him. And it was a zoning on Thames is where the house was. And I understood,
I really did understand Uri. He was a very capable, smart, bright, articulate young man,
but he was also a businessman, you know, and an entertainer. He had made that decision that
that's what he's going to do. So can I tell you, you know, where the real abilities started and
stopped and then the entertainment, you know, took plate, took over, I can't. Right. I mean,
I've watched him bend spoons right in front of my face. And I mean, I'm, I can't bend a spoon.
Just so we're clear on that. I cannot bend a spoon or a knife or a fork, unless I'm like really,
you know, just trying to cut a hard something, right? I have no idea how to do that. And I
cannot focus my mind to do it. I understand, I understand the, the mechanism as it is articulated,
but I can't for my, for the life of me, get myself to be capable of doing that. But, you know,
so when he's doing that, I'm watching very carefully. I mean, the first time he ever did it,
we were on the Danny Bonaducci radio show in Portland, Oregon in 1996. Both of us were there
on Danny's show. That was funny as hell. And, you know, Yuri came outside and pulled out a spoon.
And I, what was odd, I noticed was he standing literally 18 inches from me, right? He pulls
his spoon out of his pocket, but he puts his left foot against this Xerox machine, this copy machine
that was right there for this radio station. He put his foot against that. And I mean, maybe I
kind of glanced at that, but he certainly didn't have a sleight of hand where he changed spoons
or anything like that. And he then just started rubbing the spoon in and bent it. And it's right
in front of me. I mean, I looked directly at it, he bent it and he signed it and gave it to me.
And I still have that spoon to this day. And that was a long time ago. And every other time that
I saw him do it, like going to dinner with him and his family, people would come by recognize him
and he would stand up and do the same thing. He would bend the cutlery for him right there
at the dinner table. Like somebody else's cutlery? Oh, yeah. Or would he not get the restaurant?
It wouldn't just be his that he brought? No, no. Wow. I knew you were going to ask that. That's
why I tell that next piece of the story. No, he would just stand up and take a fork or a spoon
off of the, off the table and he'd bend it, sign it. He had a marker in his pocket or his,
his brother-in-law Shippy always carried a, you know, a marker, a permanent marker. He would give
him, give him the marker and he would sign the bowl of the spoon inside the bowl of the spoon
and give it to the person. And they'd be really happy, you know? That's bizarre. It is. I don't
know how it, how he does it or how it works. I just know that in terms of just being a really
good guy, I really liked him. Yeah. And I, and I really loved his family and,
you know, he used to do, as I said, long walks along the Thames River and, you know, he had a,
at that time, I'm sure long gone now, but he had a blind dog and that blind dog would just go out
and run circles around his voice. Wow. Just do like right hand turns all around his voice
and his big circles. And that's what this, this dog did. And he was just, he's just a really loving,
you know, family guy and, but never missed an opportunity to make a buck. And, well, you know,
what's wrong with that? Yeah. No, nothing wrong with that. So what year was it then when
Stanford Research Institute was contracted by the defense? 73. 73. In 1973, after their proposal,
the agency apparently liked the lineup in terms of the talent, the researchers,
and liked their proposal as to how they would do this work. And so they gave them a sole source
contract. Now I'm a government contractor now. So to, I know what a, and I have a sole source
contract now in a sole source contract means that the government has determined that nobody else can
do the work that you're doing. So instead of it being a competitive bid, they actually go, no,
they write it up as such as it's a sole source, you're the only one that's going to get this and
you're going to get it for a certain period of time. That contract went on for them. I know now
there are individuals and even some of them claiming that it, they had it, then it went
somewhere else and it came back. Then, you know, when somewhere else came back, okay, I'm sure there
are some fine points to it, but the issue was in 73, the sole source contract was let and they were
given the mission to start the work in this. And it was a pretty simple, it was a complex
set of deliverables, but to distill them into like really simple lay language.
They were asked to do basically these things. First one was to, to investigate, to experiment,
to validate a human ability to see something distant in space time, to actually do that,
to prove that that capability exists and to be able to establish that scientifically
through their experimentation and their data analysis to prove that. That actually didn't
take very long. I think within just short, just over one year, they came back and said,
yes, absolutely, we have concluded that this is a, this is an ability within,
within human beings to be able to see something distant in space time.
So the whole idea of ESP was proven at that point. Now, it's still controversial because
naysayers would step, still step back and they question the methodology or the science or other
things, but those are individuals that they have a, they have an axe to grind in that.
These are people that believe that there's nothing beyond the physical. So therefore,
you know, anything that anybody produces that says there actually is something beyond the
physical and that you can, you can connect with it and utilize it, right?
How did they go about finding these individuals when they were doing this research?
And how do you pick people that have this extra sensory perception?
I think that the first approach was just quite simply to, to just ask, you know, who do you know,
yeah, who, who do you know that has these abilities or, or reports to have these abilities,
right? So you end up with Pat Price and Inga Swan and your Geller and I'm sure they all know
somebody else. I mean, so I, I have even been told by Tony Robbins, who my former wife works for,
that Tony Robbins claims that he was. I remember you saying that in that podcast.
Yeah. I, you know, I, I also, I don't, I can't verify that. I can just tell you that I've heard
him say it. So, and he endorsed my book. So,
Did he really?
Yeah, I did. Yeah. He endorsed not psychic warrior. He endorsed the remote viewing manual book,
it, you know, remote viewing the complete user's guide to coordinate remote viewing.
He endorsed that book along with Deepak Chopra
and a number of other notables. Yeah, that did that. So about a year ago, I started working
with this company called Merrick Health and I wanted to get a comprehensive breakdown of what
was going on inside my body from my vitamin levels to my lipid levels to my hormone levels,
et cetera. Using the most elaborate and cutting edge testing on the market, they were able to
advise me on a new diet, sleep, training and supplement protocol designed to maximize performance
and support longevity. I tell all my friends about Merrick Health because you simply cannot get this
level of knowledge or attention to detail from a general practitioner who sees up to 50 patients
per day. Plus insurance companies regularly deny progressive treatment options. Primary care
physicians refuse to order comprehensive lab work and standards of care lag years behind the
leading research. Merrick Health represents a paradigm shift in how we approach medicine,
empowering those who want the most out of their healthcare and wish to maximize their potential.
Every client who orders Merrick's optimization package receives extensive lab work over 84
carefully selected biomarkers to help provide detailed insights into your hormone profile,
cardiovascular health, organ function and metabolic status. Expedited onboarding for those
interested in working with a Merrick Health medical provider for personalized treatment options,
ranging from hormone optimization and cognitive enhancement to hair loss prevention and body
recomposition and all from the comfort of home. The Merrick optimization package includes the
same elaborate panel I get myself. And with those test results, that's how the Merrick Health clinical
team optimizes my personal protocol. If you want the same panel and medical oversight that I receive,
go to MerrickHealth.com forward slash Danny and use the code Danny for 10% off at checkout.
It's linked below. Now back to the show. Yeah. So was Tony a part of any of this stuff?
Well, he claims he was. He claims he claims that he was brought in and that they, you know, they were
that they tested him. And I'm sure that they brought in
as many as they could get on any 10 buses. And then they just started running through a series of
tests. And when they thought that it was not something that they wanted to go further with
those people, they just excuse them. That's how they do that, right? They'll bring them in. They
don't read them on to the program. They just bring them in and run them through a series of tests.
And then they either keep them or they gotta jettison them. So what they ended up with were
a number of people, but some that we know about now were Pat Price, Inga Swan, and Uri Geller,
and even Uri did not stay there that long, right? Because there was a,
there were some, there were challenges and I'll explain that in a moment. It's,
so the next piece of the, you know, the next deliverable, shall we distill that down, was
can you tell us who will be good at this? Like, who do we look for? What in the population,
what shows us that they have this propensity for this? Why? Because if it's the CIA that's doing
this, they want to know, what do they harvest? You know, what from the human, the US population,
who do they harvest? At what ages do they harvest them and bring them in to spend them up and train
them to be capable of doing this so that they can use them as an intelligence collection methodology?
And I think one of the most profound things that came out of
this entire experiment was the fact that they concluded that this was not an ability unique
to anybody. It was a, in fact, an ability inherent to every human being, that every human being is
born into this life with this capability, if developed, of being omnipotent, omniscient,
omnipresent, right? Of understanding their eternal nature.
And they didn't say it that way, but they said, this is an ability not unique to anybody. You
don't have to get shot in the helmet like me. You don't have to have a heart attack. You don't
have to have any kind of a near-death experience. You don't have to have any, you're born with
disability. Now, if you want to do the research, there is ample peer-reviewed research from a
pediatric psychiatric perspective that addresses this very thing, particularly done in Scandinavia,
mostly, but a lot of it in North America as well, wherein they're discovering that
young children, when they're reached the age of being able to express these things,
have an understanding of where they came from, why they're here, what they're supposed to be doing
here. They have some remembrance of, like, a pre-existence or, right, something else. And
it is articulated and captured by those doing that research, doing those studies. And those are
published peer-reviewed studies. Like, what do those kids say? Where do they say they were from
and why they were here? Well, that kind of detail, I really don't know, but what the genesis, I mean,
not the genesis, but the gist of those reports is just quite simply that these young male and female,
these young children have said that they believe that they came from another place that was like a
civilization, that it had order, that there were decisions that were made, that there were
hands being raised to come into this existence, that kind of thing.
And this is all published online?
Yeah. Well, not online. This is not Google stuff. This is like peer-reviewed research.
So you could go to Google Scholar.
Google Scholar and you can find it.
Go to Google Scholar and start, you know, start looking for things that have to do with
pediatric psychiatry, adolescent psychiatry, dealing with pre-existence or knowledge of life
before this life, things like that. That'll get you started. And then you can just start following
it from there. There are hundreds, if not at this juncture, thousands of studies that have been
published on this. Are you aware of any sort of studies on the human brain, whether it be MRI or
something like that, that basically scans the brain and finds like more active regions of the brain
that correlates between people who have these extrasensory abilities?
I know that it's been done. I'm not a brain researcher, but I know that it's been done.
I know there's this guy, Dr. Gary Nolan. He's actually from Stanford as well, if I'm not mistaken.
And he did some research on people that had UFO encounters and he did MRI scans of all their
brains and he discovered that there was a certain region of their brain that was more dense in these
people. And it was the basal ganglia. And what he also found is that it was hereditary, that people
in their family also had this same enlarged, more dense basal ganglia. And his idea is that that
gave them more of a open perception or ability to see more of what's going on around us. And
he theorizes that that's how these people are experiencing these things, whether it be UFOs
or even paranormal phenomena. Is he saying that they're actually not being abducted, but that they're
like trans-dimensionally experiencing this or what?
He speculates that. I don't think he knows, but these people aren't necessarily abductees. These
are just people that have seen UFOs or encountered some strange phenomena.
A lot of them. One of them is a guy named Jacques Vallée.
I met him, yeah. Yeah. I met Jacques Vallée back in the 80s, actually.
Oh, really? Yeah. What was he like? French.
He was very French. Yeah. And all that, that entails. I met him with a guy who later became one
of my students, Ron Blackburn, who is Dr. Ron Blackburn, a PhD physicist. I actually don't
know if Ron's still alive. I hope he is. But Ron went through every aspect of training with me,
and he was there that night. I was there with Ed and Mel, myself, obviously, and we were at the
Abacue Inn, and we were there on TDY, if you watch Sean's podcast on that about the Chaco Canyon
thing. We were there TDY from the unit, and we were trying to figure out why everybody
had sketched this Chacoma Mountain. I mean, nobody labeled it Chacoma Mountain,
but the contour sketches that were done by the viewers matched the profile of that particular
mountain. And it's considered by the Pueblo and people to be like, it's like the center of the
world is how they refer to it. And we thought the Chacoma Mountain was where we were going to see
a lot of activity. And apparently, we weren't the only ones that thought that, or were being
guided or driven to that place, because here we are at the Abacue Inn, and we go out that night
with beers in hand and walk over across the street to this place to look over at Chacoma Mountain,
to kind of get out of the lights from the hotel and everything else that's around.
And back in the 80s, it was not well, not really populated at all. And there's two guys standing
there. One of them's got this device with needles and lights, and almost like somebody
could see out of Ghostbusters. And that was Ron Blackburn. He had created this device that
was measuring anomalous activity. And so, in other words, if there was an increase of energy
or a decrease of energy or a spike of something, right, he was going to pick up on it. So
that's what he was doing. And that's where he was. And, you know, his running partner at that time
was Jacques Valais. And that's how I met him. Oh, wow. Strange coincidence, yeah.
Speaking of coincidences, I just had Andy Bustamante in here last weekend who
was on the Big Skinwalker, Beyond Skinwalker Ranch show. And then I was looking you up and I
discovered that you were on one of the episodes. I had no clue. What was that like doing that?
And what did they have you do specifically? Was it all like production or was any of that real?
No, it was all real. But look, I have done television shows back in the 90s and in the
early 2000s before I stopped having anything to do with remote viewing in like 2005. And I
became vice president of operations of an operational medicine training company because
I just felt like I needed to do something as a soldier. I needed to do something. My country was
at war, you know, and now we are at war on two battle fronts and I needed to have some role. So
I actually became aligned with an acquaintance who was an emergency physician, John Hagman,
and special forces captain Jeremy Hildall, infantry officer, former Marine, who became
vice president of support. So he was the logistician and the admin guy for the company. And I was the
operations guy that dealt with the training and contracts, etc. And I had just, I got involved
in that. And, you know, at one point it was a well over $14 million a year company and 96
employees. And, you know, we were training like 26,000 soldier sailors, airmen and Marines a year.
But then we also did 22 SAS, German KSK. I mean, you name it, we were training a naval
special warfare group, everybody. And what we were training, this whole new brand of medicine
evolved at the start of the war, which is where for the very first time in the history of our
military, we started giving warfighters an individual, a first aid kit that actually had
medical devices in it. And that had never been done before. And by medical devices, I mean like
chest seals, hemostatic agents, pressure dressings, tourniquets, you know, other things. And so if
you're going to give somebody that, then the next thing is how do you train them to use all these
things? And with the war amping up in the way that it was, the services turned around and went,
we can't keep up. We, in the pre-deployment training requirements to train everybody in
operational medicine, which was defined as actions at the point of wounding on the battlefield or
tactical combat casualty care, we can't keep up with it. So it's going to have to go to contractors.
So we need to do that. So that's where the company that I was a part owner in and worked with,
deployment medicine international, that's where that happened. And so as that's evolved,
that started in 2004, 2005, I, I still do that to this day. Only I own a company that does that now,
and we work for department of state and, you know, department of energy and law enforcement
agencies, et cetera. Right. Even after that whole book fiasco. What book fiasco? The psychic warrior.
Oh, well, that was, that was in the nineties. This was happening well after that. So.
Right. But I, I, we'll get into that later. I don't want to interrupt the flow right now.
So that's, you know, that's what I, I went and did. So teaching and talking about remote
viewing is just not something I've done until recently. It's really just been like since
2000, I mean, for 2021, I had a friend come back and say, Hey, there's this new format,
you know, clubhouse and you really ought to come on and do it. And so I started
going on there and talking and I, and I was doing like literally 12 and 15 hour shows every night.
Really? I mean, I'm not kidding. I was like, I was like a Howard Hughes pissing into milk
bottles and stuff under the table. I was like. Is clubhouse even still a thing? I don't know.
I don't think it's still a lie. I think it died.
Really? Well, I know they update the app all the time. Oh, is the app still there? Oh, yeah.
Interesting. Okay. I didn't know that. Well, it was cool because, you know, when you're on it,
I didn't want to be on something that you couldn't stop jerks from, you know,
interjecting themselves into things. You like that? No. Yeah. I like the ability to stop it.
Okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I don't, I'm not going to put up with that crap. I mean,
look, I'm 69 years old. I'm not you. Really? Wow. You were great for 69, man. Congratulations.
Soldier. Yeah. Right. So it's like, I'm not going to, I'm not going to put up with that from somebody.
I'm just too cantankerous. So I loved clubhouse because I would get on there and we'd be
talking about what we were talking about. We published rules and we said, you know,
here are the rules. If you're going to come in here, these are the rules. Don't violate these
rules because if you do, you know, I'm going to bounce you. And I had this amazing suite of
moderators that were working there and they were good. They knew just, they could tell by
the inflection of my voice. If I was at the point of like, I'm done with this guy or this girl,
right? I'm done with your wokeness and they would just push the jettison button and they
would be gone. I liked that. I mean, they were gone. And if they came back, which they can do,
they, they bumped them off the stage, but if they come back, they have the ability then to
ban them from the room. And if they ban them, then that means that any room I'm in,
they can't be a part of, they can't be part of that. And I, I liked that. I mean,
I liked it because I'm not going to get into a screaming match with somebody about something.
You can either, you can listen to what I have to say. And if you don't like it, go form your own
room on clubhouse and talk about what you don't like about what I said, but don't come in and
think you're going to talk over me because, Hey, I'm not a millennial. So I'm going to burn you down.
It's combat flying operations. You know, I'm not going to put up with that. It makes no sense to me
right to get into a screaming match about stuff like that. It's just
so, so what exactly were you doing with Andy at Skinwalker Ranch?
I got a phone call from one of the producers that said, Hey, we're doing this thing. And I have done
these shows for history channel before. And you know, I've done a lot of them. I mean, back in
the nineties and the early 2000s, it did like, you know, proof positive beyond belief history
channel, Nova, you know, just a whole bunch of different things. And they were often these
things of while we want to see if remote viewing really works. So we bring in remote viewers.
I mean, one of the, they're all out there and it was just about remote viewing and about,
you know, people I had trained and they're putting them to the test and then they would bring somebody
and be kind of a proctor to make sure there was no cheating and that kind of stuff. And
you asked, we started this off talking about, you know, a police department and we
trained in an entire police department I did. And then we ended up in Carter at New Jersey,
then we ended up having an entire television crew come in and do a television show about a missing
person that was there. And what the remote viewers produced that kind of stuff. And that's
all out there. It's, it can be found or it might be on my YouTube channel. But so I was,
you know, I understood that stuff and I'd done it, but I also understood how complex it was.
And I also understood that it's an entire show. It's not a, it's not a six minute, you know,
segment of 43 minutes, right? It's just not going to be that. And so when they asked me to come in
and do it, I was really upfront with them and said, this is going to be an enormous amount of data.
And I brought in 70 remote viewers from seven different nations around the world. And
we worked three different targets and it was over 10,000 pages of data, which amount, you know,
amounted to, you know, like 25, 30,000 data points. And then you have to distill that all down. And
then you have to also try to figure out how you're going to present that on, you know, on air to them.
So they asked, they brought me in and I can still remember them. I've got all the data
and it's, it's there and I've distilled it down to
probably two hours worth of stuff. And they're like, oh, no, no, we don't want to talk about that. And
then not that. No, that's not go over that. No, no. So all the verbal sensory data was all removed.
And they only wanted the visual, which I got because it's entertainment, right? And even that,
they said, well, okay, we're going to do a 20 minute camera shoot, 30 minutes tops. Well,
well, four and a half hours later, I finish. And they're like,
yeah, they're about half pissed off because they didn't, they didn't think that they were going
to be there for four and a half hours listening to me talk. I mean, every, it should just change.
These guys are, you know, they're paying, they're paying a high dollar for that.
I mean, oh yeah. I mean, first of all, the camera batteries died. So they had to change,
you know, time out, we got to change camera batteries. And then the sun went down and they
hadn't planned on being there. No lighting. So now it's like, take a break later, bring in lights.
And they had three cameras. It was a three camera shoot. And then they did all of this stuff. And
they got all the, you know, all of this stuff being produced. And, you know, when Travis and
Eric were briefed on it, they were like, according to the producer talk to me, it was like,
we should have known this, we should have known this before we went in there and did,
you know, did our experiments. We should have known this stuff before we did that,
you know, not after the fact. So I don't,
which I was, I was happy about that because yeah, if you're going to do this,
this needs to be utilized as like an enigma penetration. It's like, how long can you say to
people, oh geez, that's unusual. And I don't know why that's doing that. Right. That's really weird
that this is happening or, you know, what's that? The remote viewers were always as an
intelligence collection methodology. They were always, they always kept up there into the bargain.
They're just one, one more cog in the intelligence collection machine. Right. And what they produced
was information. It was usable in the intelligence collection machine. There's not an intelligence
collection methodology that's 100% accurate. None of them are, none of them. And so, you know,
to bring in remote viewers and utilize them, it's one more, it's one more piece of the puzzle
that you probably cannot glean by some other means. And so applying that in this beyond
skin walker ranch with this particular Colorado ranch to do that, it was, it was like an enigma
penetration. It gave answers to the, the, the, the studies or the, the experiments that they
were doing. It gave potential answers to that, at least answers that should be considered. And
I think that, that, you know, that, that struck a bone for them. It was like, yeah, you know,
this is good. But they also came back and said, look, we, we just don't have enough, we don't
have enough space in the episode to put all the stuff that you produced into that. So we just,
we timed colored and edited like eight minutes. And we're just going to put that on the,
on the website for everybody to see. But now they just got picked up for a second season.
So they came back and said, yeah, now we want to, we want to look at another way to apply this now.
So we're in discussions for doing that kind of stuff. But so when you're remote viewing
and you have to pardon my ignorance, I know, I know Jack shit about this.
You're stupid. Exactly. I mean, like the guy told you.
All right, Jack. Exactly. I've been studying this for 50 years. You know,
nothing, believe me. Just do what I say. You're stupid. You're like a peasant mind.
So when you're remote viewing this stuff, can you, can you go back in time and see what
happened somewhere at a certain time? Or can you just go like, I'm going to go to East Africa
right now and see what's going on in the Namibian desert, like at this moment. How, and when you're
doing it, how does the information come to you? Okay, two really good questions. And
I'm going to start with the latter part of your question, which was how does it come to you?
And understand that as a scientist and a physicist, and as a special operations soldier,
it, it, this is all theoretical. I mean, there's no way to actually, nobody's ever yet
truly proven how human beings do this. But here's the theoretical interpretation of this.
Okay. So it deals with a quantum and what we're borrowing from is quantum mechanical
interpretations, quantum mechanical physics, the interpretations of that.
And we're borrowing those interpretations. And you do know what I mean by interpretations.
Like, okay, so science is not absolute, despite the fact that Jack or others might try to make it
out to be. And the greatest physicists and mathematicians among us are very clear on that,
and they're very honest, you know, the Nobel Prize winners and the temple award winners
and other things in physics, they are very keen to make sure that, that people understand that,
that everything we think we know about the world around us and the physics that explains it,
and the mathematical proofs that we use to back up those physics interpretations
could all be bullshit tomorrow afternoon, right? Because they're all based on just what we know
now. And when we input or change variables in the equations, everything changes. The whole
outcome changes, the whole interpretation and understanding of it changes. So in the world
of quantum mechanical physicists and theoretical physicists in general, they understand this
and accept that and preach it. Maybe if you don't. But, you know, experimental physicists have a
tendency to think that the world is an absolutes. In fact, I recently had a dialogue with an
experimental physicist who said to me very clear that his role in the world is to prove theoretical
physicists wrong, which in truth, that is his role, you know, there may be 10 theoretical physicists
that come up with various concepts and his job is to secure grants to prove or disprove those.
He's not necessarily attacking those individuals, but his job is science. Yeah, science.
But whenever you start to hear people speaking in terms of absolutism, right, it's this,
absolutely this. That's the wrong approach in science. And why? Because I know it. Because I
know it. So just believe me. Just shut up. Because you don't know anything. It's the Copernican
principle. That was the best laugh I had had in a very long time. Like I said, I swear I had that
guy in college. I've had that guy, you know, in front. Well, there's a recording of him actually
at SRI with Hal Putoff and some people in the CIA where they're talking about Erie Geller and
he's in there talking to them. I don't know where it goes beyond that, but that's the one thing he
actually that was the solid. Yeah. But yeah. It's been a while. Good for him. Yeah. I mean,
it's so when you're you're talking about these quantum mechanical principles and then you're
borrowing those and applying them into interpretations of quantum mind.
In some scientists' minds, you're creating a bridge and treading on ground that has no basis
in fact whatsoever. And that's okay. I'm not saying this to you to try to win people like
that over. I really couldn't care less. I mean, don't let me forget where I am in this,
but I want to just digress for a minute. Okay. There is a reason why
some people are accepting of these things and some aren't. My first exposure to this was back in
in the late 70s, early 80s, CNN had done a poll of like 2000 respondents in the poll.
And the poll was how many of you believe that there's something beyond the physical? So what
they were barking up was do you believe in God or do you believe in an afterlife or
use something else? It was just a poll that for whatever reason and I'm flying and I'm looking
at this in an airline magazine, but it caught my attention. And the question out of the 2000,
out of the 2000, essentially 98% of the people said, I believe that there's something beyond
the physical. 2% said, I don't believe there's anything beyond the physical. You live, you die,
that's it. You rotten the ground, finished, done. I don't care about that perspective.
And I don't consider it my obligation or my mission in life to try to convert
that 2% of the population to do that. This same poll has been recently been duplicated,
it gets duplicated every year by Pew Research and they've done it. And the numbers that I'm
going to quote you have not changed significantly over the years. Until recently, the last three
polls, they've changed and the 2% has now become like 5% or in some cases, 7%. Oh, it's growing.
Yeah, of I don't believe there's anything, right, kind of thing. There's bags of meat that die.
Yeah. And but when you look at it, when you look at who they're adding into that study,
predominantly, the thing that really plusses that up is China because
they don't believe in that, but they believe they're Confucius, right? So they believe in
things like luck and harmony and good will, karma, they believe in those kinds of things. So
that in and of itself, in my opinion, disqualifies them as disbelievers. They just don't accept
a white guy with long hair and a beard. They got crucified on a cross or some guy that lives in
the sky somewhere that through stone tablets to Moses and that kind of thing. They don't
believe in that. Okay, bravo. But you believe in something that's unseen. And if you're believing
in harmony and karma and stuff, you're believing in something that's beyond the physical, right?
Because that's not physical. That's not tangible. That's not. And so it does, it disqualifies you
in my book. You could split a hair on that. I don't care. It's just my opinion on it. So
out of the 2% that don't think there's anything beyond the physical, there's 98% that believe
there's something beyond the physical. The 98% that said, I believe there's something beyond
the physical. God asked the second question. The second question was, do you believe that you will
ever realize what that is? And while you're alive in this physical life, that you will ever touch it,
interact with it, learn from it, contribute to it, right? Understand it and other whatever it is
that's beyond the physical. Do you believe that that will ever happen for you? And out of the 98%
now, push that to 100s for the statistics here, it was 76% said no. I don't believe I will ever
realize it, understand it, see it, touch it, hear from it, or contribute to it, etc. Like it's
something I believe is out there, but I don't believe I'll ever realize it. And I guess it's,
I'll just, I'll see when I die if it's out there. The 24% came back and said,
yeah, I do believe, I do believe that I can reach it, that I can interact with it, that I can be part
of it, that is part of me, etc, etc. Sorry to interrupt, but this episode of the podcast is
brought to you by Verso. We all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition,
exercise, and sleep as we age. It's something I'm really passionate about and have discussed at
length with doctors and nutritional scientists on this podcast. That is why I use Verso. Verso
is a company dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential
to increase longevity. I take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my NAD
levels with powerful ingredients such as NMN, transversed varitrol, and TMG. NAD plus is arguably
one of the most powerful molecules in the body, but declines with age. Keeping NAD plus levels high
helps guide longevity genes called sirtuins. Sirtuins are called longevity genes because by
activating them they support overall health and slow down aging related effects by regulating
important processes inside of cells. High NAD plus levels can improve your metabolism, repair damage
DNA, and ramp up energy production in your brain, immune system, and muscles. Now you can't take
NAD plus as a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb, but NMN directly converts
to NAD plus while resveratrol activates your sirtuins, which increases their attraction for NAD.
These two molecules act synergistically and increase your NAD plus more than just NMN on its
own. Verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code Danny, it's
spelled D-A-N-N-Y to save 15% off your entire order or just go to ver.so forward slash Danny.
Back to the show. It's the 24% of the people that are
important to the equation and the 76% are also important to the equation because they are people
that can be changed, that can be transformed if they're shown something that takes them from
this place of believing that there's something beyond the physical and actually puts them into
a perspective of now knowing it and to know it, that's the transformation that changes people's
lives. Knowing it is the thing to know it and you can only know it through the actual doing of it
and the physical and the non-physical. And as a remote viewer trained in the protocols of remote
viewing that were intelligence collection modality protocols, that is the thing that transforms you
and that's a whole other subject but that transformation is a poignant event in a human's
life to go from believing that there's something beyond the physical because believing is easy.
We all believe something. That part's easy. There's not even the ones that believe there's
nothing. The operative word is believe. So we all believe and they can't prove that there is
or prove that there isn't but in this protocol of remote viewing when I stepped into it to learn it,
I didn't believe it and I had no reference for it. I was there because I admitted that I had some
weird thing happen to me when I got shot in a helmet in Jordan as a ranger company commander.
That's how I ended up being there. I didn't claim that I was a clairvoyant or that I'd
anything like that. I had never ever said that in my life ever. I didn't even use the word psychic
unless I was talking about something in a movie. I had no idea what any of this was but now I step
into this place where everybody there has got some preconceived notion that they are this or
they are that but not me. I'm just a special operations infantry officer but now here I am.
The only one that ever actually darkened the doorway there and the only one that was ever
trained in those protocols and so I fought against it and I was as a scientist very,
very questioning and analytical about what I was learning and how I was learning it and
whether or not I believed their analysis of my work etc and it just went on that way
for weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks and then about two and a half months into it you get to
the point where the targets in the data collection are so complex and so thorough that you can't
just dismiss it away anymore. It gets to the point where you start going like,
shit, this couldn't have happened because you're only given two sets of four numbers. You're not
given a wink, wink, this is what it is or it might be this or think coliseum on the Mediterranean
kind of thing. It's not a hint. They give you nothing. They give you two sets of four numbers.
I'll explain that in a minute but because that leads into how you're able,
how this comes to you as a remote viewer. So the point just to back up on this is
number one, it's an ability that we all have. We're born with it. It's nothing unique. The protocols
that were developed for the CIA, DIA program were developed to standardize the approach that
everybody took to the intelligence collection. They wanted to make sure that it was uniform,
that the data came in the categories that they were looking for the data to come in.
They wanted to make sure that the summaries were all the same for everybody, that sketches were
probed and labeled, et cetera. So it was usable Intel and then it was compiled by the program
manager. It was put together, a grand summary was developed and then it was sent up to the DIA
because at that point it was called all-source Intel. All-source Intel means
they get this request from a customer. Let's just say maybe it's Navy, maybe it's the CIA
and what they do is they're not selective about, well, we think this Intel method would be best
for this. All-source Intel means it just goes out to everybody. Here's our, here's the collection
task. This is the mission. Everybody decide how you need to do this, but all your input is due by
this date or it'll be ongoing. So that's how it happened and viewers were
as effective as any of the rest of them. If they hadn't been, they would have
cut it off and closed it down a long time ago, not kept it going for 20 years before I wrote a book
and then it's still ongoing today despite the fact that I know many of my former colleagues
are trying to say, oh, no, it's not, but yeah, it is. They wouldn't have killed it. It says,
it was valuable back then. It's valuable now and they're still doing it.
They wouldn't have killed it. What do you mean by that?
They wouldn't have killed the program. They alleged that when they knew the book was coming out,
they knew the book was going to come out in circa 93. I was writing the book 93 and I had been paid
in advance. I was an active duty army officer when the book psychic warrior was contracted for.
Well, the agency in those days keeps people on the payroll. They're not working directly for
the CIA, but they're told to keep their eyes open. And in all of the publishing houses,
there were people in those days that if a book came across, came in somewhere,
even if they weren't part of the team working that book, they would hear about that book.
And if they heard about that book, they would take, they would try to get copies of the proofs
or the galleys of or. So you're saying the CIA had agents spread around in various different
publishing houses and media houses and I'm sure like newspapers and stuff like that?
Yeah. And absolutely.
I'm sure nothing.
And because the one thing in those days that they were grossly afraid of was what was called,
at that point, durable media. So, I mean, in those days, email was just getting started.
There was no social media. People really didn't have access to the internet.
So, that whole idea was not something that they were concerned with, having a news show or a,
you know, 2020 or 60 minutes to an expose on it. That was here today, gone tomorrow kind of a thing
just because of the attention span of human beings. But a book, if you tell a secret in a book,
it's there forever. It's never going to go away. And once it's published and it's out there,
they can't make it go away. They can't stop it. They can't stop a publisher from publishing it.
They can't do any of those things. God knows they tried as soon as they found out that I was doing
that. And I was doing that not because of profit or anything else. I was doing it because I believed
that the transformative effect of learning this was important enough that it might actually change
the direction of human destiny if enough people were to make that transition from believing
to knowing, if that makes sense. Because that's the most powerful transition you can make in this
life is to go from believing to knowing something. That's something that doesn't happen very often
in our existence, right? So that's why the book was written. And, you know, you know the story
about what they did to try to shut that down. Well, you didn't go through the,
did you go through the standard protocol to get a book published? So you were active
Army? What was your official title?
At that time, I was the training officer for the 82nd Airborne Division. I had just come out of a
battalion where I was an interim battalion commander. I churned over that battalion to the guy that
was now secretary, secretary of state. He was the battalion commander that came in.
He's current secretary of state? Okay. Wow.
Yeah. He came in and he was the individual that took command of that battalion. I took it after
the battalion commander left and there was a gap. So I became an interim battalion commander. I was
still a major. And then after that was done, I went to the 82nd Airborne Division headquarters
and there are what are called three iron majors. They call them iron majors. I don't know why they
do that, but there is the director of ops, the director of plans and the director of training.
And my forte had always been training. So director of training is where I went. And so I was now the
director of training and one of those three majors. And that's, I had, I actually contracted for the
book when I was an interim commander, battalion commander, and, and then was finishing working
on the book when I was the director of training. And the proper, there's a protocol for when you're
doing this for whether you're in the military or whether you're in intelligence or the FBI.
When you're publishing a book, I know, the only reason I know this is because I've talked to many
former CIA officers who have written books and they always say they have to send the book in,
sometimes takes a year or two years to get it reviewed, make sure there's nothing to classify,
nothing classify that has to be redacted, blah, blah, blah. You didn't do any of that. You just
published. No, because what I was talking about was classified and I knew that. So you knew you
were going to get fucked. I knew I was going to get fucked. I just, to be honest with you,
I didn't think I was going to get fucked that hard. So I mean, what I actually, in my naivete
at that point, I mean, how old were you? Oh, 35. Oh, wow. 38. Okay. And if I had not done that,
if I had not written that book, I would have probably been a general. I mean, they're not
very many officers that have two general officers right on their efficiency reports.
You know, one of them wrote, who was the guy that reformed First Ranger battalion,
Kenneth C. Lure, as Major General wrote, destined to wear stars, you know.
Which means you're a general if you were a star, if you were a star.
Destined to wear stars. Yeah. This guy is going to be a general.
Generals don't do that for young officers very often. I mean, that I know of. I mean,
I just don't know of them doing it. And I was, I never, like, believed the, I never believed
the press about myself. I mean, in retrospect, as an older man now, I look back on it and go,
yeah, you know, if I hadn't stepped on it the way I did, I probably would have been,
I would have been a general. And a four star general, you know, wrote,
will be chief of staff of our army one day. So those are pretty significant,
you know, proclamations by individuals wearing stars about the potential of an officer to be that.
And I wasn't that because I was special. I was that because I was, I was raised by,
you know, I was a third generation army officer. My son is now a command sergeant major.
It's in our DNA, you know, it's in our DNA to serve the Republic. And it's really all I wanted
to do ever. And it was my greatest love and the best years of my life were in uniform. And
I had the greatest mentors that any young officer could have ever had. I mean,
Tennessee Lure. I mean, what kind of young lieutenant grows up under a guy who was the guy
that Creighton Abrams, you know, went to and said, I want, I'm going to give you the Creighton
Abrams Charter, which is I want you, Ken Lure, Lieutenant Colonel, just out of Vietnam, I want
you to reform a first Ranger battalion, the first Ranger battalion, right? Wow. That that had been
in an existence since really World War II and some semblance of it in Korea, but it was like,
and now in 74, he brings this up. Interesting story. I have, I'm writing Ken Lure's biography.
Oh, wow. And in one of my interviews with him, he's, he suffers from now from dementia and
it's, it's taken a huge toll on him. But before that really got hold of him in the interviews,
he said to me one time, he goes, you know, why I was, I was given that mission and told I only had
six months to, to stand the battalion up and certify him. I went, you know, it did seem like a
pretty short timeline to me, you know, you're given your, be like me coming to you and saying,
okay, I'm now as chief of staff of the army giving you this piece of paper that says,
go for more Ranger battalions, roughly 700 men, take your pick for non-commissioned officers
and officers from the entire army. You go find the best you can find and you bring them back here
and you form them into a battalion. You give them their lineage, their creed, their everything,
you create all of that. And then you make sure you, they are ready to go in six months time.
He told me that the reason that Crate and Abrams did that is because the Rangers were going to be
the force to remove the president from the White House. Think, think the timelines now and tell
me who it was. You weren't even born yet. We're talking about 63. Talking about 74. Oh, 74. Nixon.
Oh, what? Yeah. At that time, and it's, you can check the sources on it, but the chiefs of staff
and the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff stopped talking to president Nixon. They refused
a dialogue with him. They, after he had been, you know, was on the process of impeachment and what
had happened and the lies and the other things that had gone on and he was getting drug addled and,
you know, other things that were going on, he had just lost his credibility as the president,
as the commander in chief, to the joint chiefs. And when that happens, they just stopped. They
stopped going to the White House. They stopped giving briefings. They stopped responding.
Things were shutting down. It was getting more serious than any of us were led to believe that
it was. And I, I know that the 82nd Airborne Division at that time was put, there was, there's
always a battalion that's on alert, meaning supposed to be like 16 hours wheels up. There was
an element of the 82nd Airborne Division that was told that they were on alert and their mission
was they were going to go to Washington DC. They could have jumped in or they could have
air landed, which is probably what it would have happened. And they were going to be used as a
court on force. So they would have circled the White House and they would have, I know this
sounds fantastic, right? It sounds ridiculous. But I have no reason to doubt a two-star general.
And I do know for a fact that the 82nd was put on alert for this very thing. That I know.
What were they going to do? They were going to cordon off the White House. The Rangers were
going to be the force that came in to remove the president. If he did not resign, they were going
to remove him from the White House. A coup? Yes. I mean, I'm sure that there was political leadership
behind it as well. And I'm sure that, you know, but I'm telling you, I've told this to people who
have said to me, even fellow Rangers, and I meet by Rangers, I mean guys that served in the regiment
who have just gone like, you really going to say that? And I go, absolutely, I'm going to say that
because I think that's a part of our history, both our national history of our republic
and a history of the Army, you know, and the Joint Chiefs because all of the Joint Chiefs,
that means, you know, Navy, the Marine Corps, the Army, right? Air Force, all of them were
aware of this and that was a plan. It didn't get executed. But yes.
So to recap, this four-star general who you're running the biography for,
he's the one who told you this. Has anyone else- He's a two-star.
Oh, he's a two-star general. And has anyone else corroborated this?
No. Okay. But what has been established is, and you can look it up, there are a number of books
that talk about the 82nd Airborne Division during this time being put on alert and about the fact
that the Chiefs of the services refused to talk to the White House and that there was a plan for
a military intervention to remove him from the White House if he did not resign. The details of
the Rangers was classified and I'm sure it's still classified to this day. But if somebody tells me
something like that, I want to be a purveyor of truth and I have no reason whatsoever to doubt
this general who told me this at all. I mean, no reason to doubt him. He's the finest officer
that I ever served under in the Army. He's the guy that created the Rangers and he told me that
that was the reason that he was given six months to stand them up and certify them as ready and
he did. And the Chief of Staff of the Army gave him that task. It wasn't like it came down on orders
filtered down from on high to you've been selected to form a new command. This was Creighton Abrams,
the Chief of Staff of the Army, standing in front of the Lieutenant Colonel going,
this is your charter. And by the way, weird, right? I mean, when do you hear stuff like that?
Well, I'll tell you, I never have heard it. I mean, I just had a guy, I don't know if you've
ever heard of him, John Newman. He's a writer. He was a consultant for Oliver Stone on the first
JFK movie and also the recent JFK movie he did. This guy, I think he's like the only guy who
has officially reviewed all however many million, it's like two million documents that have been
declassified on it. This guy has dedicated his entire life to researching this stuff and he's
published probably eight books on it. And he was just in here like a month ago and
he discovered who there was a mole in the CIA during when Oswald was sent to Russia to defect.
There was a KGB mole in the CIA. He found out who the KGB mole was and he released it in his book.
And basically, his whole theory on all of that is that it was a military coup and the CIA was
just cover up. Like a lot of people think the CIA killed Kennedy. All the stuff that he read,
he found out about secret JSOC meetings in September of 1963 in Hawaii.
Yeah, except JSOC didn't exist then. So it had to been something else.
Joint Special Operations Command, they didn't even have the term.
Or Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Okay, yeah, that existed.
Okay, sorry. Yeah, the Joint Chiefs of Staff. So those guys were meeting in secret in Hawaii,
like the month before and there was stuff that was said, all kinds of crazy plans that were
going, had to do with Vietnam. Anyways, his whole perspective on it is that it was a military coup.
Yeah, I mean, sounds a lot like what you're talking about.
Yeah, I see the book up here, the JFK Revisited. And I actually knew very well Jim Mars, the guy
wrote the first book, JFK, The Plot to Kill Kennedy, that kind of thing, which is the
book that Oliver Stone optioned for the first movie, JFK. So Jim Mars now sadly passed, but
it was interesting to be a Daily Plaza and to be there with Jim Mars and let Jim Mars talk to you
about, you know, go through all the things. I've always been convinced and I really like the new
documentary on this new book, JFK Revisited. Because not that I am not a conspiracy theorist,
I am not. I just am not. Just a remote viewer, okay? There's a difference.
Just a remote viewer. And mostly I'm a teacher, a remote viewer, and a guy that talks about it.
But I'm convinced that, you know, what we have been fed is not, you know, it's not the story.
So I really like that version more so than some of the other versions. But yeah.
Now, you asked me quite some time ago, like, how does remote viewing work?
Oh, yeah, yeah. And I went through that whole and took you down some different rabbit holes.
And I apologize for doing that, but it's kind of my nature.
Well, maybe while we're on this whole military thing, you know, we just kind of discussed your
military background and all that. Can you explain, before we go into actually how it works,
let's talk about how you first discovered it and how you were personally brought into it.
And I think that goes back to your deployment in Jordan, or you were doing training in Jordan,
right? Yeah, I was a ranger company commander. And, you know, to be a ranger company commander,
you have to have been a commander elsewhere successfully before you actually even get
invited to the Ranger Battalion or the Ranger Regiment. When I first got there,
they were still forming the regiment. It was right after Grenada. And so they were still sorting
that out. So I got there. I was a, I was the deputy operations officer. So like the deputy S2,
I mean S3. And then after that, I was given command, I was going to get command of a Charlie company.
And the Battalion XO came to me, Jack Knicks, who went on to be a four-star general, and said,
hey, you know, this other guy's been in the S1 shop as the personnel officer. He's been there
like for a year. And now you just got stepped over him to take this command of this company. It would
be really, it would be a good, you'd be doing a real solid. And, you know, if you just backed off,
let him take that. And you go take the S1 job. And that's what I did. So the S1, that captain
went to command Charlie company. And I took the S1 position because my secondary specialty was 41,
which was every officer has their primary and then their secondary. My secondary was personnel
management. And you did that because if you were going to be anywhere, you wanted to be,
if you weren't going to be with troops, commanding troops, you wanted to be in a place where you
could maximize benefit for it. And the place to be was to be in personnel management at the
Hoffman building because you'd be the guy sitting on and forming promotion boards and,
you know, other kinds of things. You would understand the whole way in which that works
behind the scenes. So a lot of generals had been personnel managers as 41s as a secondary
specialty. And I wanted to go do that. So I did that. And so I was the S1, which I fucking hated.
I mean, I hated that job. I mean, I just really, I hated being the S1. It was like the most
thankless, you know, detail oriented, counting people and statistics kind of a job and reporting
to regiment at the same time reporting. It was like dates of rank and dates of assignment and
other stuff of briefing the battalion commander all the time about who was getting ready to leave,
who was going to be here, do not. In terms of officers, I fucking hated it. I mean,
I could have opened a vein if I had been there much longer, I swear. And so then I finally,
you know, like a year later, get a company and I'm commanding my company. And I commanded my
company a long time. I commanded my first company for almost two years. That's unusual because
usually a company command is like 12 months and then you're out of there because they need to get
another captain plugged in to get some time. But in Panama, I commanded the army's only
separate airborne rifle company. It was, it was a trip. I mean, it was,
it was the only separate airborne rifle company in the U.S. Army. It was all by itself.
In 3rd Battalion 5th Infantry, it was an alpha company airborne. It was an airborne company
down in Panama. Nowadays, it's an entire battalion, I understand. But in those days,
it was one company. And you were considered, you know, in those days, they called it the
RRF Ready Reaction Force. But it's now called Quick Reaction Force. And you were the Quick
Reaction Force of the commander-in-chief, Southern Command, the four-star that was at Quarry Heights.
And I commanded that for two years and then came to the Rangers. And I wanted to stay there for
two years. And I was always known as a trainer, you know, as a, as a detailed trainer. And again,
not something I cooked up on my own. It's something that I learned from Lure, the guy that
formed the Rangers, and all of the guys that gathered around him down in Panama.
The stringums, you know, the others that were guys that came out of the 1st Battalion, Ranger
Battalion, were down there. And so I learned from all these guys, and Wes Taylor, and Hartzog,
and, you know, Emery Mace. I had these, these, these battalion commanders were guys I served
under, and they were all just fucking amazing, you know, as leaders and mentors and teachers.
Some much better than others. But
so that made me really good at training and understanding the mechanism of training. And
so in doing that, then I have, my company is chosen to go to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
The first time the U.S. Army Ranger Company has ever gone, all eyes on this. And of course,
they go to the Ranger Regiment and go, don't send a fuck up, you know. It has to be a good company,
and they have to be good at what they're doing. Don't send, you know, whatever's available,
kind of a thing. We've always been friends with Jordan, right?
Yeah. Okay. Yeah, pretty much, yes, yes. And, and, you know, Jordan was, it's an Arab nation,
obviously, and they only have two enemies. They don't like Syria, and Syria never liked them,
which is another Arab country. So there was friction between the two of them. And then, of
course, they hate Israel. Still to this day. Oh, God, yes. To this day. I mean. Well, that puts us
in a tough position. Yes. And, you know, I understood that, you know, we're going there to train them
to do what? We're training them, you know, in combat operations, we're there to train them,
live fire exercises, you know, company deliberate attack, platoon movement to contact, platoon attack,
deliberate attack, and squad movement to contact, et cetera, et cetera. We're going to be doing this
out in the desert. To protect them from Syria? I have no idea. I mean, look, I, all I can tell you
is that they were called Jordanian Rangers, and there was one battalion of them. And I was there
as a company commander with my battalion commander, and, you know, I had an additional platoon attached
to me. So instead of three rifle platoons, I had four rifle platoons, plus I had my standard
headquarters platoon, et cetera, we were there. And we were training them just to train them,
but I was very clear on what we were really doing, because this battalion commander would stand on the
hodge road, the road to Mecca, my entire company, you know, sitting in the sand listening to him
speak, and he would speak in perfect English, and he would pull his 9-millimeter Beretta out
and point it towards Israel and fire off a couple of rounds, and tell the story about how he just
hated them and how they would, you know, they would attack them at a drop of any hat. And you
were like, I'm looking around because I actually had three Jewish kids in my company. I had three
Jews in the company. And I'm like, yeah, okay. So, and the Jewish Mossad actually used Jordan as
like their final graduation. So Mossad actually has a requirement to penetrate into Jordan and
navigate, I don't know how far, let's just say like 100 miles, you have to be, you have to navigate
100 miles in enemy territory and then come back in again. So we were told that that could happen,
that you would see that. And all the time when we were there at night, because I had translators
that were with me that were Americans, we'd be scanning the radio nets and listening to what
was happening. And we'd hear, we would hear Israelis, you know, talking and maneuvering
and doing different stuff about, you know, so who were we there? What were their training them to do?
One or two things are both things. Be prepared to combat Syria if they needed to and to kill
Israelis. And there's, there are no, I mean, that sounds like a horrible thing to say and to know that
you were maybe part of that. And I'm sure that the army would not like to hear me say that, but
come on, what else were we there to do? You know? But I'm just trying to figure out why we would do
that. It's, it's relationships, you know, building relationships, you know, there, you're not,
nobody would ever say that. I mean, it wouldn't be on a set of orders. Go to Jordan, train a
Jordanian Ranger battalion to kill Israelis and to prepare for combat operations against Syria.
No, but I'm just speaking honestly, what would we be doing there? That's what we were doing there.
So if you're training Jordanians to kill,
there's only two people they want to kill. There's only two sets of folks they want to kill, you
know? So they're not going to invade China or do something like that. They're not heading for
Manchuria there. Well, I don't think they have a fucking snowball's chance in hell and fighting
with Israel either. I know they don't. But they, in that day, and I, to this day, I'm sure,
they still have all along their, their shared border. They have command posts. They, it's like,
it's like, it's like you would expect to see, you know, back in the days of the Templars and,
you know, then the Crusades, you know, they're, they're watching the East-West routes through
these wadis, you know, these big famous wadis, you know, Wadi Musa, Wadi Hamra, Wadi, they're,
they're watching them. They have command posts that are up there and they're sitting there with,
you know, radios and binoculars and, you know, telescopes and they're watching to make sure
that the Israelis are not lining up on the border to come in as if the Israelis had any
intention to do that, right? Which they don't. But yeah, they, they, they hate them. And so,
well, at least their military hates them. And, you know, maybe in the, being there in the 80s was,
I guess, maybe it was just too soon since the last, last fight they had had with them,
which was in the 60s. But they were prepared to go at any, at any moment. They were very concerned
about. Was that the Six Day War? Yeah, but, but Jordan was involved in that. They were involved.
They were involved. Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, you know, it was, it was just an interesting
experience to be there doing that. But during one of the training exercises,
which was involved, we had like a huge bunker complex and it had, you know,
triple standard concertina and we had a support by fire position. So, we had all our machine
guns up there and had a couple of attached Jordanian machine guns that were up there.
And I had my gun squad sergeants that were running all of this. And it was just a platoon
exercise. So, I'm moving with the platoon leader whose father actually, when I was at the
remote viewing unit, his father took command of the DIA Owens. Kevin Owens was the platoon leader.
And I'm, Kevin was my weapons platoon leader and I just made him a rifle platoon leader. And so,
I'm moving with this platoon, evaluate, see what's happening, make sure we don't do anything.
Stupid. And I can remember the, we had breached the obstacles and we're getting ready to go to the,
you know, you attack a bunker complex by grabbing the back bunker on one end of the
objective. And then you roll up the long axis of the objective. That's how you take out bunker
complexes. Because they're in a, what's called a lazy W. And the back bunkers cover the front
bunkers. And then the front bunkers have interlocking fields of fire as well. So, you can't go to the
front bunker first. You have to kill the back bunker first. And then the next back bunker. And
then you can get the front bunker and then et cetera. So, you split assault elements and
then systematically go after this. And there's a process, a technique for doing that. And the
first thing you have to do is there's a visual signal and a verbal signal on the radio. But
the visual signal is a shift fire. It's not, the shift fire is not lift fire. Lift fire means
stop firing. Lift your fires off of the objective. But a shift fire means to shift from that back
bunker. Because every gun has one or two bunkers. They don't just sweep back and forth. Every gun,
machine gun, has bunkers that it's responsible for. So, that gun is hammering those bunkers.
And RM-60 machine guns, I mean, now the M249s and others are even better. You know, they can eat
the roof off of a bunker to the point that it just caves in on people. They're amazingly powerful
weapons. And you're just firing this huge volume of rounds into these bunkers. And
the, I remember the yellow smoke came out, which was the visual signal to shift. So,
you're supposed to shift the fire. All the guns shift to the right, a bunker. And the guys that
were on the far left were two Jordanian machine guns. But they're on traversing mechanisms,
traversing elevation mechanisms, which kind of locks the gunner into all he can do is loosen it
and slide it and slide it and slide it to take the barrel in a different direction just slightly
or wildly. And in this particular case, the gunner to his right, another Jordanian,
when the yellow smoke came out, shifted as he was supposed to to the right. And then the other
gunner. And for reasons at that point, which were undetermined, there was speculation that
he wanted to kill Americans. I don't know that that was correct. He might have just been stupid.
You know, I don't know. But he unlocked his T and E mechanism, freed the gun and swept it,
you know, pushed the butt of the machine gun to the right, pushing the barrel to the left. And he
emptied about 100, 125 rounds of grazing fire. Grazing fire means like one meter above the ground.
Grazing fire, 120, 150 rounds swept it back and forth through the assault element
of Americans and could have killed a dozen or more easily and didn't kill any of them.
And I was squatting with the platoon leader. I was just squatting down and watching him.
I saw the smoke go out and I just remember looking at the back of his hand. And to this day,
I could just remember the camouflage paint on the back of his hand. And he was keying the mic,
giving the verbal signal for shift fires. And at that point, I was hit in the head in the helmet,
actually, my Kevlar helmet by a 7.62 US machine gun round traveling roughly 2,830 some odd feet per
second. So, you know, the kinetic energy of that is significant because it was not a ricochet.
It was a direct hit into the helmet and it didn't ricochet off my helmet. It hit my helmet about
three inches above my right eye and it hit into the helmet and was caught by the Kevlar.
It didn't go through the Kevlar. It didn't hit it dead on. It hit it like this and so it got caught.
The bullet did. So, kind of like grazed your helmet. No, the helmet caught it. It came directly
in like this. It came up here. So, there was a curvature of the helmet. Oh, I see. I see. But
it didn't skip off. Right. The helmet just penetrated the layers of the Kevlar and the
Kevlar just caught it like that. But that speed and that kinetic energy, it kind of, I mean,
it took me off my feet. I mean, not like five feet like you see in the movies, but it took me
off my feet and knocked me out and I was unconscious. And during the time that I was unconscious,
I felt like I had some sort of a vision or an out-of-body experience or something. And that is
not something, you know, to this day that I would turn around and present it to anybody as fact.
I can just tell you that was my experience. I don't know where that came from or why that
was there. But that experience and that trauma, that kinetic energy, I had what, you know, would
now be called a closed head injury. In those days, that wasn't in the lexicon of medicine,
a closed head injury from, you know, something like that. I had a big hematoma on my head and,
you know, they flew me away to Amman and had an x-ray done. But, you know, there was no,
nothing pressing on the brain, et cetera. They brought me back. I couldn't put my helmet on because
my head had swollen too much. I couldn't put my helmet back on again. But hey, you're a ranger
company commander. And one thing that's really clear is in rangers, if you are injured, like,
if you're injured, they will take you out of that command and put somebody in that command
that fast. Because why? Because your x number of hours wheels up to go wherever the republic
sends you. So it's a very competitive environment. And you can either make the decision to let that
happen or make the decision to say, I'm okay, put me back in, coach. I can do it. So I stayed there.
But when I got back and finally turned over that company, I had been having these episodes of what
I thought were like out of body experiences. I mean, I had no reference for that. I had no
understanding of it. That wasn't in my lexicon. But because these things kept happening, I was
going to the library and looking this stuff up and reading more about it and things. And
when I finally turned over my ranger company, months, months later,
I was recruited into my first special access program. So the first special access program was
at that time, codename Royal Cape. It's also called the activity. It's also called the secret
army of Northern Virginia. There's a book written called killer elite. And the first one talks exactly
about that unit and what that unit was about. And I was the deputy XO, executive officer,
the deputy to IC there second in command. There were two full kernels in command, one infantry guy,
one intel guy. Heavy, heavy is a bunch of special forces guys in there. But you were also required
when you were there to get polygraphed every quarter. A CI poly, not a full lifestyle poly.
CI poly is counterintelligence poly, which is, you know, hook you up with a polygraph machine and
the polygraphers who work for the unit are going to ask you questions. Have you ever divulged
classified information? Do you know anybody who has? Have you ever wrongfully taken classified
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? There's like a series of 10 questions. And
after you pass your poly, you then go into meet with the command psychologist. So they actually,
in this unit, had a command psychologist, a lieutenant colonel psychologist. Why? Because
they needed somebody from the, like a mental health professional to keep their finger on the
psychiatric pulse of the organization. Because in an organization like that, where you're living
a double life, where you're telling lies for a living and it takes a toll and it takes a big toll.
And a lot of these guys were on their fifth and sixth marriages.
I mean, it was the only place I've ever seen a lieutenant colonel who was married,
a lieutenant colonel, special forces infantry officer, get in a fist fight with a command
sergeant major, who was also married over a red headed female E four, who they were both, you
know, intimate with. I mean, me, my driver and some other guy were out there pulling these guys
apart out fighting. I've never seen that anywhere before, but I saw it there. It was a crazy, crazy
place. But sitting down with that psychologist, the second time, the second quarter I was there,
that was where I shared with him because he always had this last question. He would say,
is there anything you would like to share, which I always thought was fucking creepy,
because it was like, what do you mean? What do you know that I don't know that you know those
things? And the second time I was in there with him, I said, yeah, actually there is. I had this
thing happen, started in Jordan. It's happened like three, four, five times since them. And I
I don't know what it is. I don't know why it's happening.
He did, I thought he might, you know, pick up the phone and call Walter Reed or something, you know,
and send me over to be evaluated. And then somebody was going to give me some psychotropic
medications to, you know, harness my brain or something. I had no idea. I just wanted to know
if he knew what to do or what could be done. Because I really was uncomfortable with it. I mean,
I didn't like it, right? Because I didn't understand it. And the day I said that to him,
he started handing me secret and top secret documents and telling me to read them and that
we would talk about them in the morning. And those documents were about the remote viewing unit and
things that the remote viewing unit had done. And that was my limited read on. I didn't know
it was remote viewing. That was not on the documents. It doesn't say that. It just gave the
name of the organization. But the things you were looking at and reading, it was not difficult to
discern that these are, this is somebody describing something that they are not physically located
with this, right? And the very first night, and I'll just say that so you can ask the next question,
is the very first night, one of the things I'm looking at, there are two people. One,
they're both referred to as by numbers, not names. And they're both obviously physically
co-located because they're verbalizing with each other. This is recorded transcript, right?
Okay. But one is steering the other and the other is describing things that are not in
their physical location. And one says to one, are you outside the building where you're supposed
to be? The other says, yes, I believe I am. And the other then says, great, good. Okay, now pass
through the wall and describe the contents of the room. That was my first introduction to
remote viewing. Pass through the wall and describe the contents of the room.
In a top secret document, sitting in a secret compartmented information facility,
reading that transcript about a special access program while I was already in another special
access program. And I was already on the Department of the Army special access roster,
which means when you go do that, they take your file and they send it to Dasser. And you're now
no longer, if somebody was to type your social security number into the big giant army computer,
it would say service member, not on file. So I was already removed one level
into the Dasser. And I'm reading this. I mean, what would you think? I mean, I was-
You're a part of some black program. That's what a special access program is.
Okay. Yeah. Now you described these crazy out of body experiences you started having after you
got shot in the head. Can you describe what those experiences were like? Oh, they're dreamlike.
But at the same time, very, very lucid. I mean, I can give you an example.
Like one time in the remote viewing unit, I was being trained in extended remote viewing,
which is completely different than coordinate remote viewing. It's a different protocol.
But I remember taking the coordinates and trying to go into this altered state.
You're supposed to go to a theta brainwave state, alpha brainwave state for coordinate
remote viewing, theta brainwave state for extended remote viewing deeper, you know,
almost to the edge of sleep in Delta, right? And I remember getting up out of the,
we had, they had a bed that you would lay in or on to do the extended remote viewing. I remember
getting up the red light in the room that normally illuminated the room was off. And I remember going
to the door and it was like being in a twilight. Everything was like a gray and I go to the door
and I opened the door and there were no lights on in the building. The whole building was just
dark and absent. There was nothing there. And I remember going down the hallway and opening
the front door to the remote viewing building and going outside. And I remember looking up and it
was like I was standing in an eclipse. That's how the whole matte tone of the world looked at that
point. And I walked down off the steps, these wooden steps and out into this little asphalt
kind of parking lot between the two buildings, the admin building in front of me, the remote
viewing building behind me. And I remember looking up into the sky and then as just as if I thought
about it, shooting straight up into the sky, like a thousand feet straight up into the sky.
And then realizing that whatever momentum brought me up to that point had now exhausted and I was
now falling backwards back to earth. And then I woke up and I was in the remote viewing room.
So all of that was like an out of body experience. That's I can describe it for you.
Yeah. And those happened a lot. It was always up in the air looking down at things, the tone and
the texture of things was crisp and sharp, but the tone was always this monotone, right?
You were conscious. Like you were aware of what was going on. You were lucid. No.
This wasn't like, okay, so it was more like a dream.
Like a dream, but I've never had a dream like that before or since. I've not had a dream like that.
Dreams are considerably different. I mean, when you've had that kind of an experience you,
there's a crispness to it where dreams seem to be more muddled and convoluted. And I mean,
it's almost like changing channels in a dream. You're here and that and this and that.
Right. And in this it was very linear, but very crisp and organized and
was very aware of what was happening. Like when I looked into the hallway and there were no
lights on in the building, I realized that there was, that was unusual that there were no lights
in the building. When I walked out under the porch and I felt like the light is wrong. Where's
the sun? It's like standing in an eclipse. I remember thinking that. And then I remember
standing out, walking out into the asphalt and then saying, well, let me see if I can
jump upwards and maybe see if I can go up and for whatever stupid reason, right? Your brain
thinks this and then you find yourself shooting straight up into the air and then you gas out
and then you're at this place of going, oh, holy shit, now I'm going to fall backwards again.
And it's very real to you at that point, but
you asked me what that feels like. That's what it felt like. And it happened many,
many times before I got there. And it happened many times after that. They don't happen anymore.
And I do dream, but I don't have any experiences like that.
But you were deliberately trying to have those experiences.
No, I actually wasn't. No, no, not at all. No.
Okay. So after you got initiated into this Black
secret access, special access program, and you read the documents, what did they have you do next?
Well, you have to understand in special access programs, the process by which you
are brought into those programs is what's called a limited read-on process.
In other words, they don't just go grab you and say, hey, Danny, we really like you to come
work for us in this SAP that we've got over here. And you would say, well, great, what are you doing
there? Well, here it is. And they lay it out what they do. And then you go like, right. And then
you go like, well, fuck that. I don't want to go do that. And then you go, well, are you sure?
Because come on, man, I just told you everything that we're doing. And you're like, no, fuck you.
I'm not going to do that. And that's why they don't do that. So what they do is they incrementally
give you a little bit, a little bit, and they keep testing the water. They keep poking you
and asking questions. It's a process. And I didn't know what that process was,
because I'm not an intel officer. I'm a combat arms, special operations, infantrymen
affiliated with the Ranger Regiment. That's my regimental affiliation. So I had no idea what
they were doing. But and now I know what they were doing. It was a limited read on. It was,
you know, just feed me a little, see what I did, what I said, what I thought.
Was I bulking or was I expressing interest? So six, seven months down the road, I get brought to the
remote viewing unit, which is at Fort Mead, Maryland at that time. And I come with a psychologist
who knocks on the door. First of all, you come walking up to the building and it's
like the most fucked up thing I'd ever seen. I mean, really, it was like horrible. I mean,
I mean, it was a World War II Baker's school and the building to the right, which was the remote
viewing unit, that was a barracks bay, which they then put other walls up in for remote viewing
unit. The shingles on the top were these green asphalt shingles that are all cupped up like
bologna, you know, on a hot skillet. The paint was peeling off everything. It was like this
literally World War II buildings, right? And they just look like, in fact, I later found out that
they had been, like five years earlier, had been marked for destruction. Like they were just going
to, you know, burn them in place or tear them down and haul them to the dump or something. But
we were there. And there's a great big security door, big giant metal security door in the front
with a combination lock on it. And this PhD psychologist, you know, wraps on the door,
they open it up and they welcomed him like he was there every day, you know, he came in, me and
toe. And he brought me, he goes, I'm going to go meet with Mr. Gavin, Fern Gavin, who was the program
manager, GS 15 guy in charge of the unit at that time. There had been others before him and after
him. And I am then taken to meet all of the, all this cast of characters that's in the unit.
And my first, the first guy I meet is Mel Riley. And Mel is in the farthest back room, which is
considered the smoking room. So Mel and there are two women, Robin and Angela. And Robin and Angela
are sitting, they're everybody sitting at gray metal army desks. But Robin and Angela have black
tablecloths spread over their desks. And they're, they're doing whatever it is you do with tarot
cards. There are tarot cards on their desk, which I just looked at that and thought,
well, that's your shit, not something you see every day in a military organization.
And not to mention, when I first walked in, I look across the, what they called the lobby,
which was like 20 feet away. There's this giant, as big as where you have all his sound
foam here. It's a mural, a mural, a black mural of a galaxy painted on the wall. And I'm thinking,
that's not something you see every day in a military, you go into a military organization and
they have like weapons and you know, whatever it is they do, if they're armor, it's tanks and
artillery, they have artillery pieces, infantry. It's got infantry guys, you know, it's, it was
weird to see that. You ever seen that show called Stranger Things on Netflix? No. Okay. That's what
I'm thinking of when you're describing this. It was just really weird. I mean, like the hair
went up on the back of my neck and, and seeing the tarot card things. I mean, I knew what tarot
cards were. I just didn't know what the fuck they were doing with them there and why, why you would
be doing it. Right. And I look at Mel and Mel's got a, he has a, an elk hide fur on one side and
it's flipped over and he is, there's a, an elaborate, you know, array of beads in these
segmented little places. And he's got a, a needle that's not much thicker than a human hair, it
looks like. And he's pulling up one little glass bead at a time and he's selling these beads onto
this brain tanned, they use the elk's brains to tanned the hide, which makes it softer and more
supple. Mel told me that later. He's, he's sewing beads onto it in this intricate pattern because
that's, that was his hobby. That was his love. He was, he had mastered this Native American
craft of beadwork and breastplates and head gear and stuff like that. His stuff is,
he passed away now, but his stuff is in museums. Oh, wow. He was so, and, and he was invited back
to a number of Native American, I know they don't like the word tribe, but back to a number of Native
American groups to teach them the, the art, the lost art of this craft that they, you know,
let go by the wayside because their, their kids don't want to know it, but he teaches it to them
now. So, and get it for decades before passing away of lung cancer. So I see that Mel, you know,
that's Mel. He has dream drums and tomahawks and lances and skins and everything else there. I
mean, again, you're thinking, well, shit, that's not something you see every day. You know, and then
I meet Mel Riley, Gabrielle Pettengill, Paul Smith, Ed Dames. I mean, all of them, they're all there,
and that, that's the group of people that I ended up working with. But I, after beating them all,
then I brought in to meet Fern Gavin. Who's Fern Gavin? Fern is the program manager. Okay.
He was 15. Okay. He had replaced a Lieutenant Colonel who had that position. And Fern takes me in,
and the psychologist steps out, and Fern says, have a seat. He goes, you know,
let me lead off here. I'm always impressed that there are young officers
willing to give everything up to come be part of this organization. Now,
those who are not words that I understood because I wasn't willing to give anything up,
and I was going to be a general someday. So what are you talking about? I said, I don't even know
what you do here. Right. I read some stuff and I don't know what you do. And he looks at me and he
goes, well, what we do here is we train people to enter my throat. Sorry.
What we do here is we train people to enter an altered state of consciousness.
Oh, God. That liquid death, no joke. No, it's Florida doesn't agree with me. But
we train people here to enter into an altered state of consciousness, to transcend space and time,
to view persons, places or things remote in space and time,
and to gather and report intelligence information on the same.
And we would like you to be one of us. Yeah. That was what he said. And I, you know, from a physics
perspective, some of that's true, others not true, but the whole idea behind it, that's what he said.
And that's a whole nother, you know, story. But I didn't agree. I mean, I was like, I need to think
about that. I mean, that's, I really need to think about that. And so I went back, I talked to my wife
and at the time and said, you know, this is what I'm thinking about. She thought, of course, that I
was, that I had a screw loose. She knew what I had gone through. When we got back to Royal Cape,
to the activity, also called ISA, we got back there. The commander who was Colonel Tony Lackey,
he was extraordinarily pissed. He was more pissed at the psychologist than he was at me.
But I ran to work every day with, with Colonel Lackey. And so like for the next two weeks,
he just bitched at me and told me about why I shouldn't go to this unit, why it was just nothing,
it was nothing but a place of misfits and freaks. And that if I went there to go do that, that I
would never recover from it, that I would be, my career would be stained, it would be, you know,
nothing good has ever come out of there. You'll never be able to shake that off. And I really
thought about it and thought about it. But then there was just something inside of me that was
intrigued by it. And I don't know, maybe I was just at that point in my career where
I was, I was now in this special access program, you know, the activity and doing what I was doing
there. I was, I was a guy that briefed John O'Marsh Jr., the secretary of the army at the time,
on all of the movement. Every, every time somebody in that organization did something,
like if they were going to send them to jump school or they were going to send them,
I don't care, wherever they were going to send them, for whatever reason,
it required a signature by the chief staff of the army, John O'Marsh Jr. So I was a guy
that by the time every request to move somebody, somebody went through 54
staff inboxes to be approved and then to the secretary of the army for a final signature,
wow. I was the guy doing that and I fucking hated it. And I mean, it was great, you know, chatting
with the secretary of the army three, four times a week, but I still, I mean, one of the code names
was a guy by the name of Grape Goddess. I guess that was the code name for this guy, Grape Goddess.
And Grape Goddess needed to be moved from this country to another country or from, you know,
from this city to that city, you know, back for, you know, to visit for a leave with the family
and stuff. So to bring, if you guys really want to know what they did, you know, in that role,
read that book, you know, Killer Elite, that'll tell you better. I mean, the easy answer is that
they were, they were there to support and develop support structures to,
to support clandestine and covert military operations in tier one and tier two countries.
Okay. Okay. That's the unclassified version of that, but that's what they were there to do.
So you had guys that were, they were, they had covers, they had code names, and they were there
doing it. And they could have been doing something like making sure that they were able to get somebody
witting from Coca-Cola bottling company in Brazil, shall we say, to set up a number of safe houses
or some trucking company to be, you know, to have trucks on call if they needed them or other safe
houses and other places that it's that kind of thing. So that's your job. You go there to do that
shit. This organization also, here's another big shattering thing I haven't talked about in a long
time, and I found this out. Now, Sean probably didn't tell you, but I'm LDS. I'm not, not practicing,
but I graduated from Brigham Young University. That's where I did my undergraduate work. I was a
high priest in the Mormon church, served in a stake presidency and in a bishopric as a second
counselor. And I see this, I see this operation that I'm now going to brief the secretary of the
army on that we're sending like five, five guys, five, five soldiers who are not LDS, by the way,
they're not Mormons. And we're sending them to the language training, to the missionary training
center in Provo, Utah, and then to the language training center in Provo, Utah to learn to speak
language. And then we're sending them into the field as Mormon missionaries
to spy, you know, on the populace to collect, to also establish relationships with church members
there that could support clandestine and covert military operations. And I went to the Lieutenant
Colonel that had headed this program back in the back of the building, you know, in another
skiff. So you're in a skiff, you go to another skiff. And I go in there and I said, is this for
real? And he goes, of course, it's for real. I go, and the church knows this? I mean, they know,
because I remember at BYU, return missionaries would always say, yeah, it was really tough down
in Central and South America because everybody would point at us and go, oh, you're CIA kind of
things. And I just thought, well, that's ridiculous. You know, why would they think that you're
walking around a suit and a tie or short sleeves with a tie on and you've got your badge on elders
so and so, right? And you're doing that. Why would they think you were CIA? Well, now I fucking know.
Wow, that's bizarre. And now I have, I have on occasion, you know, given
talks at different places around, obviously around the world. And I did one in Cedar City,
Utah years ago, years ago, God, back in the 90s. And there are, there are like 180 people in this
place. And I told that story. And I, and I expressed frustration that that I always took
really great pride in the fact that that church didn't take any money from the federal government.
You know, whenever the federal government, you know, or the state government, state government
might have come to them and said, well, if you don't do such and such, or if you try to do such
and such, we're going to withhold our, you know, the money that we give you. And the church was
always very clear coming back going, you don't give us any money. And we don't accept any money
from you. So you can't make us do that. If it was against the doctrine of the church, like at BYU,
it was a, they didn't have co-ed resonances, co-ed dorms, stuff like that. You were either,
like if you had an apartment complex, it was either a male apartment complex or a female
apartment complex. You could not put the two together in those days back in the 70s. And so
there was a whole big stink because the church went and they put these apartment complexes
off limits. If they catch them doing, you know, trying to integrate them, they would put them
off limits, which meant that students could not reside there. You'd have to find another place
because it was now banned. And if you wanted to go to BYU, you had to live by that code of conduct
and adhere to what, you know, the church or the school had said about that. So the apartment owners
were up in arms and they were trying to turn this into the giant lawsuit. They were going to sue the,
you know, Brigham Young University. They were going to sue the church. And they went after
trying to do that, but it was huge in the newspapers back at the time. So around the time they shot
Gary Gilmore, Gary Gilmore was a murderer that was convicted who in Utah, in the Utah State
Prison, asked to be executed by firing squad. Oh. Yeah. I've never heard of it since and I had never
heard of it before then, but Gary Gilmore, yeah, they executed him at Utah State Prison by firing
squad at his request. Right around that time, all this shit's going on. And I just remember,
you know, you're reading in the paper because it's like the president of the university was
Dal and Oaks and I can't believe I remember that stuff. But, you know, yeah, the federal government
was going, well, you can't, you can't do that to these apartment owners. You can't put these kinds
of decrees upon people and say that students can't live here or live there. And they went, yeah, we
can't. And they're like, no, you can't, but yeah, we can't. And it was like, no, you can't or we're
going to withhold all of our funding to you. Yeah, we don't, we don't take any of your funding.
So, you know, without, without saying that, they were basically saying, go fuck yourself. Right.
Because, you know, you, we don't take any of your funding at all period. You don't,
none of these students are federally funded in any way and we're not federally funded. So,
yeah, we will do that. Did you hear about that story about that huge Mormon community that was
down in Mexico that was killing cartel members? They were like super, like very heavily armed. I
think like people got in there and saw that they had these guys had like godly amounts of weapons
and ammunition and they were like hunting down the cartels. That, you know, who they were related
to, right? No. The guy was a presidential candidate.
You know, dark-haired handsome guy, what the fuck is his name? His family comes from,
that's where he came from. They're, they, a presidential candidate in Mexico? No,
presidential candidate in the United States. Oh, god, dang it. Now, now that we're mentioning it,
I gotta look at, yeah, we can look it up. We gotta, we gotta look this up because, yeah,
that's what that is from. He, Romney, Mitt Romney. Oh, really? Yeah, Romney is a, he's LDS and his
family, his family kind of originates in the Arizona area, but then there, they went into Mexico
and started this agricultural work in Mexico. And that is his family or extensions of his family
down there. Yeah, big extensions. I mean, like they're, they're related and they actually, yeah,
they are down there and then the cartels were, you know, transiting back and forth and were
threatening workers and other stuff. So they just went like, yeah, well, fuck it.
You know, that's just, you know, you got AKs, we can buy AKs. Yeah, you got RPKs,
we can buy RPKs, you know, you want RPGs, we can buy them too, you know, we have money and they
were buying it. So they, they geared up and it was just that way. It was like, if you,
if you want to fight, we'll fight. That's insane. Yeah, I mean, but yeah, people don't realize
that that's one of the places that his family, you know, migrated across the border, there are
pieces of his family that are in there, then we're part of that. So I know that story. Yeah.
Okay, so, so once you started, I take it you made the decision to go ahead and be a part of this
program. Against everyone I know wishes. Everyone's wishes. Everyone's wishes. So what did they train
you in? What was the protocol of doing? I guess this back gets back to my original question,
like about an hour and a half ago. How does this whole thing work and how does the information come
to you when you are remote viewing? How do you remote view? Yeah. Well, first of all, being a
trainer, I was just fucking appalled that when I got there, it was like, you know, I'm, I'm,
I'm sitting down for my first lecture. Well, the, the first, this is the first thing that they do
is they bring you into the safe room. There's an, I mean, safe, like protective room. It's a,
it's a room filled with safes. And they're, they're these file drawer safes. They're like four,
four drawers high, you know, like 32 inches deep, 24 inches wide combination to spend the
combination. You open up the safe and you can pull out the drawers. Well, there's one on the far
right. That's the historical safe. And they said, okay, so, uh, before you get your first lecture,
you go to this safe every morning and you start at this file top drawer front. And when you get
to the last file on the bottom drawer in the back, then tell me and we'll start your training. So
I'm like, fuck, because now you're just like, you know, it's like, God darn man, that's a
shit. So it took me weeks to follow through it. And I saw things that were really
strange and strange and interesting. And at the same time, things you just look at yourself,
you know, in the mirror in the morning and go like, what the fuck am I doing? Like,
is this for real? I mean, you drive to work. They're going, I can't fucking believe what I'm
doing. You know, I can't believe I, you know, I'm an army major getting paid. This is the strangest
thing I could ever know, you know, to like, I mean, I'll believe anything now. You know, I mean,
it's like anything in the Intel world you tell me about, yeah, I, okay, I'll, I'll believe it.
Because I mean, look at where I am and what I'm doing and going to work to do. And so after you
get done with the historical file, which is the story of everything leading up to the unit,
everything that the Soviets were doing, everything the Chinese were doing,
everything the Israelis were doing, everything that anybody else, the Germans, the Brits, I mean,
anybody that was dabbling in this and they were all dabbling in it. Why? Because it was cheap.
And it's like the director of the central intelligence agency said back in 73 goes,
I don't fuck, I don't care if it's only 3% accurate, if I rather 6% accurate, if it's 6%
accurate information that I cannot glean by any other intelligence collection means
it's intelligence dollars well spent. I mean, it's 6% of the puzzle. Now it's far more accurate
than 6%. 6% would be very low actually, but you get what I'm saying to you, right? He was like,
you know, this is stupid. If we can get a bunch of people in the room and
teach them how to go into an altered state of consciousness and then come back and
with sketches and verbal, you know, sensory data about something, I get, fuck yeah, you know,
this is good. Let's do this. So that's where I saw all of that. And then I sat down for my first
day of training and the first guy that steps in front of me is Ed Dames, who's a smart fucking guy.
I mean, he's smart, speaks Mandarin Chinese, reads right and speaks Mandarin Chinese,
reads, writes and speaks Vietnamese. He's the closest thing to a physicist or a scientist
that that place ever saw, okay, next to me. And he's standing in front of me and I go,
all I have here is a pad and a pin. I go, is there a training outline? He goes, no.
I said, is there a program of instruction? No. Is there a fucking manual, you know,
for this? Like, can I read ahead to understand? He goes, no. He goes, well, you know, there's some
shitty thing that's like 12 or 20 pages long, but we don't give it to anybody because it's
a piece of shit. And I went, this is really not good. I mean, this is really not good. I mean,
I'm an academic. I think he is an academic and I'm like, okay, shoot, you know,
so every, you know, he was my, he was an instructor for some things.
Mel Riley was an instructor for some things and Gabriel Pettengill was my primary instructor
for pretty much everything. And it was like, whatever came to mind that day for that period
of instruction is what you were being taught. And for me, that was just like a catastrophic sin,
you know, of military training or as an educator, you know, are you kidding me? You know,
so it made it very difficult for somebody like me who wanted to see the protocol, who wanted to
understand the dogma, but, and then they kept talking about things like an alpha brainwave state
or a theta brainwave state. And I was like, I'd raise my hand like it, but how do you get there?
Well, you know, it's like this. And they would tell you like how you're supposed to feel when
you get there. I go, but that's not, that's not how to get there. And that's not proof. I mean,
you're telling me how I'm supposed to interpret a physiological response to being in a brainwave
state. And you're telling me that because that's what somebody told you. And somebody told, the
person that told you got told by somebody else, but you're not giving me any actual empiric evidence
of how to get there. You're not telling me. So you're saying it's like all objective experiences
being. Subjective. That's what I meant. Subjective. Yeah, it's all, it's, well, when you get to an
alpha brainwave state, you'll feel this. Well, fuck that. You know, that, that doesn't mean anything
to me. Right. I mean, I understand what you're doing, but no, there has to be a way to get there.
And you have to measure and know you're there. I can't know that I'm there based on what you're
telling me that none of it made, none of it connected, none of it made sense. It was
sloppily done and disappointing. And still you, you learned how to do it, but it was just trashily,
it was trashy done. You know, it was really not a good thing. And there was not a manual
the entire time I was there. So I was asked to write the manual last 90 days I was there.
And I wrote a manual. It was like 250 pages long, but I know what happened to it.
I mean, once I gave that to Fern Gavin, I mean, shortly after I left, he was displaced by,
you know, another guy by the name of Dale and Dale came in there. And I know that all the old
school guys that were there just went like, yeah, well, fuck, we're not going to take this.
The Morehouse is only here for three years. And, you know, we're not going to use a manual he
developed. I mean, to hell with that, you know, we've been here forever and they had, I mean,
there are guys still alive today that have been there for 15 years. I mean, can you imagine
15 years out of a 20 year career to be in that place? Hell no. Yeah. I mean, I never had any
intention of going into that place and being there like that. I was there to check a box
to get what I could get from the organization. It was my second special access program at that
point. And, you know, I went off to another special access program before going to
Commander General Staff College. And that's a whole nother story, but the third special
access program. But yeah, it was just shoddy. But despite that, you could sit there as a
scientist or as an academic and you could question things. And they didn't have good answers for
them. They just kept telling you, push on, you know, push on, you're going to get to the point
where those questions are going to be invalid. And it just, what they were saying is that there's
this crossover point just through the act of doing it, that you're going to get to a place
where the volume of verbal and visual data exceeds your ability to explain it away when
you're given the feedback. You're not going to be able to look at the feedback and go,
well, I could have just made that shit up because it's going to be 20 pages of verbal and visual
data, textural sketches, contour sketches, dimensional sketches, geospatial sketches,
colors, temperatures, textures, tastes, sounds, smells, right,
emotions, intangibles, aesthetics, all these levels of data that you're going to start producing
based on each stage that you move through, stage one, two, three, four, five, all the way out to
six. But time you get into stage three in your training, that's where you're now like pushing
up to three months of training. And at that point, the sheer volume of what you're doing in the
picture that you're able to paint based on just two sets of four numbers, when they give you the
feedback, you have to, first of all, finish it all, finish your session, you have to do a session
summary, you have to reference your sketches and all these other things. And so you pull together
the summary and then you hand that in and it's evaluated. It's evaluated by your trainer,
by your trainers, and by the program manager. And only after they are looking and evaluating
your structure, the structure is all they give a shit about at that point, only the structure.
So that you understand in stage one, you do these things. Stage two, you do these things. Stage
three, you do these things. Four, five, it's it, right? So that's what they're looking at.
If there are violations in the structure, they don't give a shit about your content,
but if there were violations in the structure, they would give you your feedback or they would
give you your feedback with counseling. In other words, you failed to do this, you failed to do
that. Now you're going to go, you have another training target this afternoon, right? Or tomorrow
morning. So they would push you back in again and they wouldn't push you up another level. They would
make you, you would do another stage three target or another stage two target, they call it. Okay.
Until you demonstrated that you had mastered a stage two or stage three or four, right?
All the way to six. And that's how they did that, which was, I got it. You know, it's like,
I guess in wrestling, you know, you learn a move and your coach requires you to do it until you
master that move. And if you don't, then either he does something different or, you know, he keeps
you working on it until you master the move. So that was the idea there. Okay. And I understood
that. And by the time you're into stage three and into it, sheer volume of the data that you're
producing, the story you're writing in the session summary, and then they would hand you
the feedback. The feedback in those days really sucked. It was like, you know, a Xerox copy of a
Xerox copy of a Xerox copy, so mostly black and then some, you know, some textual descriptions of
what you're looking at. So they're really horrible. Nowadays that we do video, we do it, put all kinds
of links in it, where you go to this place and look at it. But you get this Xerox copy of something
with this, you know, thing written. Nowadays, we put quantifiable attributes about the target. So
in other words, you should, these things should be perceivable. And it could be like up to two,
it could be 200 quantifiable attributes. So you're now looking at your session and your session
summary. And you're looking at the quantifiable attributes and the feedback. And you're establishing
a statistical rating for yourself by going, I got that, yep, I got that, I didn't get that,
I got that, I got that. Okay. Didn't get this, didn't get that, but I got that, I got that,
right? You go all the way through it because these quantifiable, known quantifiable attributes that
pertain to this particular complex gestalt of a target. What were you explaining with the two
sets of numbers? Yeah. The way this process works, again, theoretical, okay, is that we understand
that everything in the world, everything in this environment, at the quantum level, the table in
front of us right now, everything, that it's, it appears to us as a wooden table or as a computer
or a microphone, all these things, it appears to us as that because it is a concentration of
molecules of, right, atoms and molecules that create for us this thing that is agreed upon
for us as being an object, right? But at the quantum level, these things are nothing but space.
So you could take, if I were to ask you a simple thing like
how many atoms in an orange, in order to actually be able to figuratively demonstrate that,
you'd have to blow the orange up to the size of planet Earth. So if you blew the orange up to
the size of planet Earth, the atoms in that orange would be the size of grapes, okay? So if I
pull one grape out of that and say, okay, can you find the nucleus and the electrons in this atom?
For that to be demonstratable, you would have to blow that grape up to the size of,
let's say, the astrodome. Okay. So the grape now is the size, that's the atom,
and the actual nucleus would be the size of a small pea, a dried pea, cast somewhere into
the astrodome, not here or there, but anywhere. And the electrons would be the size of grains of sand
cast into the astrodome. Now you get the idea, right, that at the quantum level, the subatomic
level, what's between the pea, the grains of sand, the astrodome space? Now what's that
space filled with? Now it goes into particle wave theory. The idea that we have, that we get taught
in school is that, oh, well, you know, it's this old Newtonian model where you see the nucleus and
they have the drawing of the electrons moving around the nucleus and stuff. Well, that's all
bullshit. It's not like that at all, not at all. In particle wave theory, you hear people mentioning,
they'll say, well, when it's observed, it's a particle. When it's unobserved and people don't
understand what that means. When it's observed, it means it's when it's measured, okay? When it's
actually being measured. So, but to put it into just a lay language that we can adopt for this
demonstration or this understanding, let's just say that from a field now, that space is filled
with waveform because that's actually how it exists. So, when it is observed or measured,
that waveform of a particular particle now, it coalesces into a particle and it's a position. So,
position one. And when it is no longer observed or no longer measured, it decoheres back into
waveform. When it is measured again, it coalesces back again into a particle and it's now position
two. When it is no longer measured or observed, it decoheres back into waveform. If it is
observed again, measured again, it coalesces back up now particle point three, right? So,
when you look at that, your conscious mind says, for those that don't understand that, they go,
oh, well, it was in position one, now it's in position two, and then it went to position three.
And so, that particle went from the, it went, it went the most direct path from position one
to two and from position two to three by the most direct path. Quantum mechanical concepts say,
no, no, it did not do that. What it did was, when it, when it decohered back into waveform,
it traveled by, and you got to hear this, every possible path, every possible path,
which means that the waveform is omnipresent, omnidirectional. And if that waveform carried
a signal like a radio transmission, it would then be an omnip, a source of omnipotent information
from any place. If, and that's what it is saying, every possible path, not the most direct path,
every possible path, that means that that waveform, that's where these terms come
of the holographic matrix field, right? The collective unconscious.
It's everywhere all at once.
It's everywhere all at once, which means that if we are born with the inherent ability to do this,
and these pieces were not put together back in the 70s with SRI, but they are now, and that's
what I teach, but if that, if we're born with that ability, think about the grand plan that would
have given humans that capability to be omniscient, omnipresent, omnidirectional, right? Omniscient,
omnipotent, omnipresent. And it gives an understanding of so many things in the world
that we had before just gone like, well, what the fuck does that mean? I mean, how can you be
everywhere at the same time? How can you be, right? How can you be? It's, it's a concept
that is expressed and understood now from the quantum mechanical perspective. That's what that means.
And it, it is tied to everything in quantum mechanical concepts, the, the particle wave
and beyond that's saying, that's why you're able to close your eyes, get into an altered state,
and tap into something that you asked the question earlier that happened in 1942 or 1542
or 42, you know, AD or 42 BC or something like that. Can you do that? Yes, but that's
going to be a whole nother lecture for you, but it is understandable and it is, it is teachable
for that, that you can do that. It's understanding the moment. It's understanding
patterns of potential. It's understanding a change distribution. It's called, it's understanding
probability distribution. It's understanding the equation of the moment. All of those things are
pulled together and we, we get it and we understand it now and what it is. So how are you as a remote
viewer able to tap into the wave form expression of something? Because it's not about you going,
so the whole transcend space and time thing. I told you that that was not what it was.
You're not transcending space and time. You're just going into an altered state of consciousness
and you are detecting the wave form expression and you are then at the speed of human thought
decoding it into a four-dimensional language. So the detecting process
happens in what is called eight-dimensional hyperspace. It is, it's a complex, it's, you can
read up on it, but for us to talk about it would be four hours. So that's eight-dimensional hyperspace.
It's just saying that it's an omnidirectional, I mean, an omnipresent,
it's an omnipresent concept of showing that how multiple dimensions are all
interchanged and you can be in one and then you are in all eight at the same time. That's what
that means, eight-dimensional hyperspace. There's a lot been written on it. There are even gifts
out there that you can look at at a gift and you can see by the gift and how the gift operates that
you can put yourself anywhere in the gift and when you put your mouse cursor there,
what ends up happening is as the gift, as the eight-dimensional hyperspace folds and moves,
you're in every dimension of that eight-dimensional hyperspace. So essentially what it's saying is
it's trying to give you an explanation, a scientific understanding of what we're saying when
we're talking about omnipresence. So something in the future, something in the past,
something in the present, it's not about transitioning space-time, it is about just
looking for that particular signal line as the term used for it, that particular signal line,
and when you can tap into that particular signal line, it's an omnipresent waveform
expression of something. And so in that waveform expression, it's like the reason the term,
the holographic matrix field is used is because you have to understand what a hologram is.
A hologram, first let's just talk about the waveform and then I'll go to the hologram.
It means that that waveform expression has all the information that you're looking for,
all of the colors, textures, temperatures, tastes, sound smells, aesthetics, dimensionals,
intangibles, etc. Now when you're saying this, when you're explaining what you're explaining
right now, are you saying that everything is everywhere all at once? Is it at the same time
there's multiple outcomes of the world or the universe all at once? For example, say the Nazis
won World War II. Would there be an example of like right here, right now, like that potential is also
here? That's an excellent question. It's not what I'm saying. Okay. Like that movie or that book,
that was there was a film based off it, The Man in the High Castle. Yeah, yeah. That's not what
I'm saying. When you're given a target coordinate, you as a remote viewer don't have any idea what
the target is going to be. You don't have any idea. Only the person, there's somebody else guiding it?
Program manager. Program manager, okay. So the program manager, going back to the unit,
program manager gets a target, a request for intelligence comes from a customer, right? And
that request for intelligence comes to the program manager. The program manager looks at that,
sorts it out, figures out what kind of target it's going to be, knows which of the viewers are
probably going to be better at this or which are not, or maybe he just doesn't give a shit and he's
going to make everybody do it, right? Okay. But what he has to do now is he has to
establish a concept for that target, because it is his concept of that target
that is going to be locked into those coordinates. Some people try to refer to it as an address.
It's not really. It's a concept of the target. And why does that have to be there? Because
if a concept of the target is not established, if there is no targeting question that helps to
establish that target concept, it becomes like a shotgun blast of potentials and possibilities,
right? Okay. So it could be subject to an every imaginable kind of interpretation. So
theoretically, the way that you distill that down is to establish a target concept,
a target question. So client says, we want to know what happened at this time in this place
on this day. He has to then write that down and lock that in. So it's not just fleeting because
it's called conceptual illusion. If you don't do that, conceptual illusion, it means that it's like,
if I try to ask you to hold the color purple in your head, you can't hold it because it starts
to morph and drift. It takes on different textures and different shades. And I think
that's conceptual illusion. It's one of the things that plagues us as human beings because it's like,
it's why we have extreme difficulty dealing with shit that's happened to us in the past,
particularly if we deemed it traumatic. The truth of it is, you'll never recall
exactly what it was. It's always elaborated and layered and certain parts of it dropped,
other parts added, other parts increased, et cetera. And we have a tendency,
just as part of our human animal makeup, to gravitate towards the negative. I know there
are always people that go, oh, bullshit. No, I can do. No, you don't. So if you ask
100 people to sit down and list the 10 most significant things in their life,
98% of those people, if not all of them, will make sure that at least 75% of the things that
they list are negative fucking things. They will not be like, oh, birth of my child,
graduation from high school. No, it'll be something different. It'll be the first time somebody
called me this, the first time I realized that I wasn't going to be Arnold Schwarzenegger,
the first time that I got an F, the first time I got sexually assaulted, the first time,
that's what happens. So when these things are, when we're talking about trying to lock down
this coordinate, when we say that, event arc of time is a term that we use. So an event arc of
time is essentially saying, you see the purple line there or the blue one, it says the target
concept is the RMS Titanic. At the exact moment it strikes ice at 1140 p.m. on that date.
So from that, you can see it goes right down into the center, right? Of that Cartesian disc
that you see there, right? But then what we're saying, and this is just an illustration,
there is an event arc of time that is actually above and below the whole event arc of time. And
it's saying that there are now things that are going to lead up to that and there are things that
are going to imprint after that. Okay, right. So before that actual thing happens, the concept
of the target strikes ice at 1140 p.m. Things lead up to that and things followed. Right.
And all of those are perceivable because why? Because they are an imprint expressed as waveform
because of the collective and the individual experience of those things.
Okay. Okay. Now, are they ever perfect and absolute and a hundred percent? No,
because we already established that, right? Because individuals, human beings have an
inability to recall them perfectly. So there's a collective understanding to it and there's an
individual understanding or interpretation to it. And both are individually and collectively
morphing because of this concept of conceptual illusion. Still, there are things that we can
know and things that we can go back and pull out, things that we can see, re-examine, we can talk
about them, we record them, we can sketch them, we can say, right? So in this example, which is
not necessarily a really good remote viewing example, it's just showing you that,
you know, they're basically, all that you see on there is like seven different people.
That's the thing that seven different people did that impacted all the rest of the people
to put Titanic on the bottom of the ocean. Okay. Okay. So you're looking at all these
decisions. These are all little individual moments by individual people in there. And you're just
seeing that for seven people, but it's showing you, look at all how it compounds and how all of
this stuff happens. It all affects. Each thing in a moment in this event arc of time. So viewers
have a target rich, right? Environment of waveform expression of things when they're going to look
at something. Okay. You may be sending them to look at the Eiffel Tower. Okay. But there's,
based on the concept of that target, like it could be in present time, it could be
the day that it was first opened, it could be the day that Adolf Hitler was standing on it,
you know, looking out over Paris, it could be anything. And if you looked at that,
and that was that event, was that blue line there, all these things would be happening.
So you don't give this to the viewer. No. You don't give anything to the viewer.
No. This is just for helping you understand what we're talking about in terms of the concept of
the time, a concept of the event arc of time and, you know, all the things that are going on,
because people have a tendency to think of it simplistically, like it's, oh, well, it's just
that, but it's extraordinarily complex, right, of what's going on. And now think of the event arc
of time there for those seven players in that one event. Now take the other 1800 passengers and
understand that every one of them has an event arc of time that's unfolding in the same complex,
and you start to get the understanding of this is what we're talking about.
We're talking about the moment here. The number of possibilities contained within a given field
defined by its combined subsets, right? Yeah. So the equation on the right is,
you know, is a simple equation to define the moment, you know, right now, right now, right now.
But there are aspects of that that are not displayed here, because whatever is going to
happen right now, there is also a cone of probabilities, meaning that from an infinite
field of potentials, infinite field of potentials, and people sometimes can't get their head around
that, right, an infinite field of potentials. Now, the moment is just like, it's like a,
it's like a, think of it as like a line or a pencil moving through this infinite field of
potentials. Consider the infinite field of potentials in that sphere that you see, or think of it as
an infinite field of black and white ping pong balls, okay? Okay. As this moment is moving,
the ping pong balls are not moving toward the moment, the moment is moving, because why? In the
equation here, it says that the moment is defined by the sum total of change approaching zero,
plus change approaching the infinite, time approaching zero, plus time approaching the
infinite. It means that, that change and time never reach zero, meaning it's in constant motion,
and change and time never reach the infinite, which means they never get to the edge
of potential or possibility. So they're moving in that way that the moment is constantly moving.
So the idea then is, when you get into like some of the, some of the theories and experiments of
guys like the old Jewish physicists, it's Ben Tov, right? There's a great book, Stalking the Wild
Pendulum. I know physicists who have told me, I became a physicist because of this book, you know?
Wow. He talks about entrainment. He talks about sympathetic resonance. He talks about
constructive and destructive waveforms, et cetera, entrainment, those kinds of things.
So when you're in the moment, as an individual standing in the moment,
in the moment of your life, and it's the only thing you're in charge of, you're not in charge of
five minutes ago, you're actually not in charge of five minutes from now, you're only in charge of
right now, and you're only in charge of how you're going, how you're reacting to what's occurring
in the moment right now. And in the theory of this, what happens is, as you in the moment process
and resonate in the moment, you begin to entrain from this infinite field of possibilities,
infinite field of potentials. Things that are possibilities that are resonating in the same
way you are resonating begin to entrain, meaning they theoretically begin to line up.
They're called patterns of potentials now. Okay. I see, that makes sense.
Makes sense? Yes, that makes sense. It's much more complex than this one from the physics
perspective, but in late terms, you're getting the picture, right? Absolutely.
So the moment moves, and it's not moving in a linear time, in a linear fashion,
it's not left to right, it's not going from here, it's moving through an infinite field.
But you're staying within a cone of probability, everything that you do.
Well, a cone of probabilities begins to establish itself, and what that's saying is,
there's a distribution relating to time that as the moment moves, and these patterns of
potentials line up, right? That as the moment gets there, that different, there could be one
pattern of potentials, and only slightly altered from that, a different pattern of potentials,
and a different pattern, and a different pattern, and a different pattern. And as the moment moves,
and your resonation, your resonation, your frequency is what attracts those patterns of
potentials, that as you go, as you move towards them, that they're shifting and jiggling, you know,
in this experiment, this thought experiment, they're shifting and moving, right? And the closer
you're moving towards those patterns, some become less likely to become part of your
reality, part of the moment, and others become more likely to become, right? Yep.
So some of those variants start to drop off and drift it off, and then as you're moving,
all based on your resonance, on your focus, your idea for this, how you're going to respond in the
moment, how you are responding in the moment. And this is a really powerful understanding,
and when you, when people grasp it, like I can see you do, it's like, it changes how you see
your role in the world, and how you see the world in which you are, right? Oh yeah, big time.
So this is a scientific explanation of things you'll hear people throw out there, like, oh,
well, you manifest. Ah, fuck, no, you're not manifesting it. What you're doing is,
you're establishing patterns of potentials, and the more you resonate, the more you are
causing that sympathetic resonance or that entrainment or that constructive waveform
with a particular potential as you keep moving. Now, here's a big wrench in the works.
There's a fucking thing called change distribution. Motherfucker. Bastards. Change distribution deals
with the idea that there is a collective impact on your moment, a collective impact. So we don't
exist in this world by ourselves. There's a collective impact, and that change distribution
can alter and skew even when you least expect it or don't expect it. It can shuffle because why?
Because it's a collective change distribution. It's billions of people. There is a global
moment shared by all of us, right, that affects the moment that each of us experience.
And how does what somebody's doing across the, in China, affect what I'm doing here?
It goes back to a whole another expression of the fact that we're in a, it's like,
there was an old physicist that explained it in this way.
Is this the neosphere? Have you heard of the neosphere? I forget. Somebody explained it to
me on a podcast. It's like we're all raisins in jelly or jello. So if the collective
vibration or frequency of all the raisins in the jello is at one frequency, you, as a single raisin
in the jello, are not going to, not vibrate at that frequency. Oh, shit. Right? Wow. It's,
that's a good way to look at it. I, you know, is it just a thought experiment for it? Yeah. So,
and there are all kinds of other understandings like it, for example, we, we live in a capacitor.
So there's a negative charge on the surface of the earth, ionic charge on the surface of the earth,
up 85 kilometers into the ionosphere and that fluctuates, right? It can go up to three,
three, some 300 kilometers, but it comes back down. So it's, it's misshapen, etc. And there are
all kinds of things that cause that to happen, solar activity, lunar activity, etc. But so the
ionosphere expands and contracts, but the ionosphere has a positive charge to it.
So a negative charge and a positive charge and a, an electrical engineering and understanding
of that, it forms a capacitor. A capacitor is a storage device for wave form, for, for power,
for energy, right? Okay. Okay. So in that negative and positive charge up to the ionosphere,
all of the wave forms, all of the wave forms, and let's just talk about the manmade wave forms.
Let's just talk about, you know, radios and television and, you know, everything that's
Wi-Fi and everything, it's everything, right? All of the wave form expressions of things,
GPS, satellites, this, blah, blah, blah, right? All of that exists within that capacitor.
So think for a moment how completely inundated your mind is, your every cell of your body with
the wave form expressions of all those things that are out there inside that capacitor and then
understand that some of it can, some of it escapes, some of it doesn't, but also the wave
form expression of everything outside the capacitor is also inside, you're, you're feeling that and
you're connected to that. You're swimming in a literal sea of a wave form expression of all
things. Hence, you know, it's an omnipresent existence in this eight-dimensional hyperspace.
So with that background, so you would kind of understand that sort of, and you get it, I can
tell. What happens then is when we're talking about your ability to do three metronomic steps,
detect, decode, objectify. And here's why it's not 100% accurate, because you're detecting
an eight-dimensional hyperspace. In the moment that you're doing this, you are detecting,
can you go backwards to a moment that was part of the collective existence that is now back,
once it comes through that moment, once it's in and out of the moment, as a collective experience,
and everybody has a collective experience, like going back to this thing, right? Even when it
strikes ice, you're looking at the experience in an event arc of time of seven people, but there
nearly 2,000 people there. Every one of them have their own version of this event arc of time, right?
So once that moves out of there, once it's out of the experience, and it's now back into the
infinite field of potentials, it's in the past, we say. But it's really just into an infinite
field of potentials. Can you go back to it? Yes. If you go back to it, is it 100% like what it was
when you experienced it? No, never, conceptual illusion, right? Plus, it's got a collective
interpretation and reinterpretation. If it was something that affected that many people.
So it's a bizarre idea, but now, let's say I wanted to send you, as a remote viewer,
to 11.40 a.m. on that date to see the RMS Titanic strike ice. My concept of the target is strikes
ice. The moment, the very moment that steel strikes ice, all the shit leading up to it,
all the shit after it, you will start to be able to pull that out to detect it, decode it,
objectify it. But my concept is a very pinpoint moment in time when something happened,
and that's what I set as the coordinates for you. So if I do that, and I lock that down, you actually
as a program manager, you write that down. Target concept is RMS Titanic, striking ice,
and you can elaborate it. Steel strikes ice at this time on this date. If I'm thinking about
the whole arc. Do we have to know where? Do we have to know location? No, okay. No, no, no.
If your intention is to, you want to know more, right? You want to get 100 different
interpretations. You want a hundred different event arcs of time. You see how rich that becomes
now, right? So when you do this and you lock down that event, this is what I'm after. Then you
assign two sets of four numbers, and you have to be really good at this. If you fuck this up,
the whole group or class or group of remote viewers, if your mind wanders like you're going,
okay, RMS Titanic, 1040, and it's like, I wonder if Burger King is still open now. I think maybe
ribs tonight. If you start doing that, what will happen is now you've skewed the intention, the
concept of the target, and some of them will get it, and some of them will just bounce off and go
where the fuck ever. It happens. I've watched it happen in class where I've given this responsibility
to somebody who probably shouldn't have had it, or I gave it to somebody I trusted, but that person
had to go to the bathroom, so they give it to somebody else to do who's part of my staff,
but that person's not ready to do it. That person goes like, RMS Titanic. When I get out of here,
I'm going to go get a salad, and they put the coordinates down, and it's not a hard connect
on a concept of the target. Do you follow? It's not a hard connect. It needs to be a
hard connect, and the harder you can connect it, and the better trained you are at connecting it in
that way, the better the target results will be from the remote viewers. If you skew, if you're
thinking something else, or you can't hold that thought when you assign those coordinates,
the viewers will skew. There will be less quality data, but what do you mean when you say assign
coordinates? We said two sets of four numbers. Now, it used to be called random numbers. They
don't have to be random. You could say two, zero, two, three. That's the first four, and then you
could say zero, nine, zero, one. Now, I teach always that the last number is a one. It doesn't
have to be, but I teach it that way because as a coordinate remote viewer, when you come off of
that one, you have to respond autonomically with what's called an ideogram. An ideogram is the first
graphic representation of the target site. It falls into a certain set of category of stuff
that you're going to work on. I don't want to confuse everybody about it, but it's either going
to be land, water, land, water interface. It's going to be mountain. It's going to be a structure,
or it's going to be these things. That's not what you want your audience to be thinking about.
That's why there's a one there. You could say two, zero, two, three, just so you could make sure
for your records, you could know that this class or this group of remote viewers on two, zero, two,
three did this target, and zero, nine being September, they did it on September, and the zero,
one doesn't matter. That part, you're not trying to lock down the day. The viewers
are trained to put down the date and the time that they start and the time that they end the
session, all that stuff on there anyway, in their name, declaring personal inclinancies,
declaring advanced visuals stuff. I'm just telling you, that's how the coordinates work.
The detected code and objectify simply defined are this. Detecting is again,
altered brainwave state, alpha brainwave state, and you have a piece of paper in front of you
in coordinate remote viewing. You've taken the coordinates, responded autonomic, you've decoded
the ideogram into its ABC components. Don't ask. You don't want to go there. Then you're going to
start into stage two. Colors, textures, temperatures, taste, sounds, smells,
dimensionals, et cetera, right? Contours. Your pin's going on the paper and you're closing your
eyes and you're, what are the colors? Now, that is a detecting and as that waveform expression,
omnipresent, you're not projecting there. It's all around you. All you're doing now is based on
the address. Based on the address you've been given, which are the two sets of four numbers,
and a concept of everything we're talking about here. Now, all you're doing is prompting yourself.
Okay, what colors? And as colors come to you, that's called detecting and decoding. Now,
the detecting is eight-dimensional hyperspace. It's done with the unconscious mind. The decoding
is when at the speed of thought, your conscious mind decodes it into four-dimensional lexicon.
Time, height, width, depth, it decodes it into four-dimensional lexicon. So, oh, well, it's
purple or it's blue or it's red or it's chartreuse or it's no color, white. So, or it's empty or it's
this or oh, it's tall or it's thick or it's long or it's it's bumpled. It's, you know, whatever.
All, as you keep going through these things, you're detecting, you're decoding it into the
four-dimensional lexicon, and then you objectify. The objectification means you're sketching it
on a piece of paper. You're putting the verbal sensory data in accordance with the structure
that you're taught in stage two or stage three or stage four or stage five or stage six, right?
That's what you're doing, detect, decode, objectify. Now, why is it not 100% accurate and why will it
never be 100% accurate and why are you never going to win the lottery as a remote viewer? And why
should you never give somebody to invest your money who claims that they've got a hedge fund that
they use remote viewing to determine, you know, where to put the money? Because it's not, first
of all, it's just bullshit. But second of all, it's impossible. It's a human interpretation.
Right. It's a human interpretation to detect. That's the purist it comes. But your brain,
your conscious mind, right? It has to assimilate it into something that means something in this
four-dimensional world. So it calls upon its references. It calls upon your lexicon, what
you've experienced, what you've done, what you've seen, what you've read, what you've heard,
right? What you've touched, what you've smelled, what you've tasted, what you've felt, all these
things. And it goes, it does it that fast, faster, faster. You know, Elisabeth Rauscher and
Targ have written several papers on the speed of human thought being faster than
the speed of light. I fucking love it. We cognate faster than the speed of light, which is actually
true. So the speed with which we are able to detect and decode is phenomenal, right? So it comes
quick, quick, quick. And once you have it, and the funny thing about it is, because I keep saying
it's based on your experienced Rolodex or your, your experienced database, you know,
more upgraded term, right? If, if you don't, if you don't have a reference for it, if you don't
have never experienced it, your conscious mind will struggle for a millisecond and then it will
call upon the best matching experience that it can. So if you don't know what it's like,
if you don't know what it's like to be on the bottom of the Atlantic, of the North Atlantic,
you have no idea about the darkness, the pressure, the, you have no reference for it,
your conscious mind will come up with a, a match. It'll, it'll come up with something
close to it, like dark, right? You know, chili, you know, hard to breathe, blah, blah, blah.
You, that's what it does. Got it. That's what viewers are constantly working with. And then
by the time you take that and then objectify it on the paper, like you're trying to sketch
something at some aspect of it, you're trying to sketch energetics or you're trying to sketch
pressure, right? How do you sketch pressure? Right. How do you, or you're just trying to
write it down, but you have no idea what it feels like. At, I mean, most people have no
idea what it feels like at one atmosphere, you know, to be 33 feet and understand what the pressure
differential is and how that feels or two atmospheres or three atmospheres, they have no reference
for it. So they struggle with how to explain some of the things that they're experiencing.
Uh, and the same goes if, you know, the target you're giving them is some high strangeness,
you know, ranch out somewhere. Right. They come up with, they do the best that they can,
and what you're looking for is correlation between multiple viewers. That's why one viewer,
there are three rules that pertain to remote viewing. It's not 100% accurate, never has been,
never will be. Anybody tells you it is, they're full of shit and lying. Okay. You never trust
the results of one remote viewer operating independently of other remote viewers. Okay.
Never. Okay. It's never one viewer telling you what's going on in the world. They don't know.
They could be completely wrong or they could be completely right. What are you going to wager
that they're one or the other? You don't know. So what you're looking for is correlation in data.
You want as many as you can get working the same target. Now you're looking for trends and
correlation in data, right? Got it. Highs and lows don't matter. And thirdly, it has never been,
nor was it ever intended to be a standalone endeavor remote viewing. It was used as just,
it had to be used in consonants with other intelligence collection methodologies. So
that means if you're doing it and you're going to do it in law enforcement work, investigative work,
or medical diagnostic work, or something else, right? Whatever you're going to do with it,
it has to be used in consonants with other things, which is what made it potentially very
powerful and beyond skin walker, right? Because they had all of their experiments that they were
doing. The problem was that the first time it was done, they had already done the experiments
before the remote viewers were even doing the target. So that's one of the things that Travis
said, which was like, shit, we should have had this first. And then we could have gone to where
they said, these things happen and we could have run the experiment there instead of just running
experiment here, right? So now I think in season two, hopefully, we'll work it that way with them
and do those kinds of things. But I mean, I'm sorry to talk fast.
Oh, it's fascinating, man. It really is. Well, Mr. Morehouse, we just did like three and a half
hours. I think we're going to have to come back for part two of this. I hope so, yeah.
This was very fun. Thank you. I won't get lost next time. I'm with the GPS.
Send me into Tampa. You should use your remote viewing to figure out exactly where we're at.
Yeah, I've tried that. I get even more lost when I do that.
Well, thanks again. Tell people out there where they can find you, find your work,
all that stuff. Yeah, brand new website going up. It's davidmorehouse.org.org.
Don't go to the .com one. I don't actually own that. And I really don't have anything to do there.
And don't buy any of the stuff that's on it either, davidmorehouse.org.
And then there is a YouTube channel, which I always forget the name. I have a brand new
YouTube channel. It's got, as soon as this comes out, it'll be there. Okay, perfect.
So yeah, I just look for davidmorehouse, david.morehouse, or davidmorehouse on YouTube, right?
I'll link it all below so people can find it easy. That'd be awesome. Yeah, perfect.
All right, man. Thanks again.
That was my pleasure. All right. Goodbye, world.
