It's a weird, weird path I chose.
How old were you when you decided to officially move to the Amazon rainforest?
I was 17 years old when I made the decision.
I hated school, was never good.
I was getting into fights with gym teachers.
I was getting suspended.
I was just failing all my classes and just my parents are awesome.
My parents said, look, just forget it.
They said, just forget the last two years of high school.
Go to college, save up money, do whatever you want.
I said, do whatever I want.
So I'll do whatever I want.
So I'm getting a plane ticket to the Amazon.
What sparked that idea?
You read books about people following their dreams and doing all this shit.
And it's like, you're just a kid.
Yeah.
And I was like, I want that.
I want to go out and, you know, find something amazing.
And to me, it was like the Amazon is the place that has more terrestrial
biodiversity than anywhere else on earth, not just now, but at any point in the fossil record.
And so I was just like, get me on a one way ticket to there.
And then it took it took like six months of emailing people and calling
professors and trying to find a research position there.
Because I didn't want to go as like a tourist.
I didn't want to let go as like, there's a way people go to like Costa Rica.
I don't want to go on like a rainforest vacation.
I wanted to go and authentically be in the Amazon rainforest.
And so I found a research position with one of the local indigenous guys.
This guy's name is Juan Julio Durán, and he's everybody calls him JJ.
And he had a small plot of land that he was protecting.
And he was doing that in collaboration with a PhD candidate who was doing
research on bird populations in the region.
And they said, look, if you come and you do like four hours of bird research
every day, you can stay for as long as you want.
No, sure.
And so I went there and it's like, you know, the first scene in Jurassic Park
when they're like, they pull up to the park and they have no idea what
they're about to see.
And then Dr. Grant sees the he sees the Brachiosaurus for the first time
and he grabs her head and he turns her head and the music swells and you get
chills all over your body.
And they're like, oh my God, dinosaurs.
That's what it was like going to the Amazon for the first time.
It's like you can't be serious that there are there are these millennium
trees that are thicker than this room at the base that go up 150, 160 feet
that have entire ecosystems living on them.
These are things that were like these were trees that were alive.
These were saplings when Pizarro hit Peru would be when Columbus was still
stumbling across the ocean.
These things were growing in the Amazon.
It's like monster trees, leaf cutter hands, jaguars, anacondas, all this
crazy stuff.
It was just like, this is a dream come true.
It felt like I literally literally felt like I had unplugged from the
matrix and suddenly I'd gotten to the real world.
How, how did it, how long did you have to spin down there before it?
Did you, did it actually change you in any way?
Oh, it physically changed you because we are, well, let's take it like this.
You look at wildlife, wildlife, you know, you have sharp teeth and claws and
feathers and camouflage and all this, all this different things that they
have, all these different attributes they have that make them good at their
lifestyle.
We are soft.
Like most of us have vitamin D deficiencies where our skin is soft.
We don't have sharp teeth.
We're not fast.
You go to the Amazon and the jungle starts working on you and, you know,
the sun bakes your skin and then you're, you're cold in the rain.
And if you're going with local guys, the way I was, they were saying like,
you know, let's go out and track some animals and they're like, get the shoes
off.
They're like way too much noise with the shoes.
And so you take your pathetic little, you know, gringo feet and start walking
around the Amazon rainforest where you have 12 inch spikes coming out of the
ground where you have venomous snakes, scorpions, all this stuff.
Um, but you start to develop harder calluses on your feet.
Your skin tightens and becomes tan.
You become, you literally, you start getting stronger.
You start losing weight.
Your strength to weight ratio skyrockets.
Um, you literally start changing the jungle molds you.
And then of course you're under constant assault from the mosquitoes, the tics,
the, all the other things that are after you're part of that ecosystem.
So yeah, it changes you physically.
And then it also changes you mentally.
And the fact that you, all these things that are dormant in us while we're
living in society turn on, you know, we don't need a lot of the, um, you know,
alarm receptors that we're, that we're born with that come standard in our bodies.
We don't even know about them.
And it's like, you know, the ability to, to know when rain is coming, the
ability to, to sense the tempo of a forest, you know, the birds, you don't realize it,
but when you walk through a forest, the birds will tell you what the
tempo of a forest is.
And so, you know, there's, there's happy chatter when the birds are all just,
you know, chilling and the sun is out and it's the afternoon.
And then there's, there's that weird quiet right before a thunderstorm.
And then there's, there's other, there's more, there's other shades of it.
You know, like if there's like a large predator or like a snake going by, um,
you'll have birds alarm calling in that direction.
And you start to wake up to these little things.
And sometimes it's not even a conscious thing.
Sometimes you start, you start going, why do I feel like this is about to happen?
And then, and then it does.
And you go, what am I, what am I learning here?
You know, it's sort of, it's sort of so vast that you can't quite put your finger
on it.
So mentally, physically, spiritually, it just, the jungle became everything to me.
So when you first moved down there and you were doing, working on that
research stuff with that guy, JJ, where were you living?
What was it?
Did you have a car or like, what was life like when you got down there?
Oh, um, it's, I hope that my local team gets to hear this.
I'm going to play it for them because it's so funny because, um, I was just, uh,
I was just over in Africa and they were asking the same thing.
They were like, so how do you guys like get to the store?
And I was like, so the only way to get to our, so JJ had a research station
way out in the jungle.
And so, I mean, this is a guy that grew up without shoes.
You know, he was like out in the jungle.
They were like supplementing, I think like 70% of their food came from
like bush meat that they hunted.
And so to get to his research station that he chose to be far out in the
jungle, we used to have to leave town with two weeks of supplies.
The first day you'd be going on a boat, up river, up river, up river, all day long,
no matter what.
And then you camp on the side of this beaches on the edges of the river and
the drier months of the year.
And so you camp on a beach and then the next day you keep going up river.
And then finally you arrive at the research station at the bank of the river.
And then you have to carry two weeks worth of eggs, two weeks worth of rice,
two weeks worth of everything up into the jungle, over the staircase,
up to the research station.
And so it's, uh, it's, it's a, it's a totally different type of lifestyle.
So no, we don't have a, we don't have a car, um, you're out there.
And then when you run out of supplies at that, especially at that time,
we had like a little, like, you know, radio, we could radio for town and they
could send a shipment of food, but that would come in like four or five days.
So like completely isolated.
So, and then how did you transition from moving to the rainforest and working
down there in the Amazon to making TV shows?
That's an interesting story.
So the thing is, as I started learning from JJ, he started basically what it is.
I mean, this guy knows the, the, so there's, there's saps running through
the trees of the Amazon that are medicinal.
Like, and these are not like, you have to believe in it for it to work.
This is like heavy chemical compounds that are, you know,
recognized by Western medicine.
Like this is real, real powerful stuff.
And he was teaching me about that.
He's teaching me about birds.
He's teaching me how to track Jaguars, how to track game species, all this stuff,
this stuff that I'm just downloading constantly from him.
How did he learn this stuff?
By the way, he grew up in the forest.
So he was, he grew up going on hunting expeditions.
He grew up with his brothers who were loggers.
He was the only conservationist out of the crew.
He has like 17 brothers.
And when you say he grew up in the forest, like I'm trying to picture it
like an indigenous, he grew up like, like a tribe.
Yeah. Yeah.
The indigenous community.
Yeah. Wow.
So he, he came from that background.
So when he, when you have an ear infection, he's like, oh, we need to go get
dead, dead, dead, dead, dead man's fingers.
And we go get the fungus and they mix it up and they mix a few other things
and they pour it in your ear and your ear infection goes away.
If you have a bot fly, they know how to remove the bot fly.
It's all these different things.
If you have broken bone, they have very unique ways of, of, of healing a broken
bone.
Um, and so I was, I was learning so much from this guy.
And then the, the only thing that he didn't know, cause the, you know, they
hunt, they log, they, they use medicines.
They have all these things that they interact with the forest.
The thing that he didn't know was snakes.
And I'd grown up watching what Steve Irwin.
And so I had always been catching snakes.
I've always loved snakes.
And you know, in New York, we had, you know, black rat snakes,
garter snakes, um, whatever.
And, uh, I had, I had set a goal for myself where I had said, I had to
catch a hundred nonvenomous snakes before I ever messed with a venomous snake.
You know, had to successfully catch a hundred nonvenomous snakes.
And, uh, that, that didn't work out because at some point in, I think
it was Harriman State Park, I saw some old guy and he saw a copper head and
he told his wife, he goes, you know, he goes back up, honey, I got this.
And he picks up a stick and he was going to go hit the thing.
And at like 16 years old, I ran up behind this guy and like grab the stick.
And I was like, no, you're not.
And I pushed him back.
And then I just like took a little twig and like got the snake by the tail and
like moved it.
And I was like, that was my first venomous snake.
Like, there we go.
But when I got to the Amazon, I'd caught hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of snakes.
And so I was like catching bushmasters and vine snakes and all this amazing,
beautiful snake life.
And JJ was like, how do you do?
He's like, how do you know these?
And I was like, I was like, snakes is what I do.
And he was like, have you ever thought about seeing an anaconda?
And I was like, I would love to see an anaconda.
And he was like, well, um, we go on this one hunting trip every year.
He's like, it's a bit of a ceremony.
He's like me and my brothers and my dad, we get in a boat and we pack like
two weeks of supplies and we go way up this river to a point where there's
like, there's no past the point where the, the, the features of the land have
names, like really wild.
And he was like, but every time we go there, he's like, as you're going up
the river, he's like, we see anacondas on the side.
And so he's like, do you want to come?
And so I went to his parents' house to meet his brothers.
And at this time he was introducing me to them.
And these are the people who have become my life friends.
But, um, it was like, we, we had a meeting and they said, yeah, join us.
We went on this expedition.
And like the first thing we found was this like 13 foot huge female anaconda.
And I just jumped out of the boat, grabbed it by the head.
It wrapped around my arms and, uh, that was the start of something.
And we started, we were saying, let's start measuring the anacondas on these rivers.
Let's see how many anacondas are on which rivers.
And like, let's start putting together something that could become a study at
some point.
And, uh, pretty quickly we got into trouble with that because then there was
like a 15 foot anaconda this one day and, uh, she was, she was sleeping on this log.
And so what happened was they dropped me down up river.
They took the boat down river and they said, okay, we're going to come
from either side and we're going to surprise her.
And so this anacondas asleep probably as thick as a basketball around.
Like pretty, pretty decent sized snake.
And she's dead asleep.
And as I'm crouching in and I'm coming in and we're like, we're like wearing
like just boxers and what is she laying on?
She's laying on this tree by the side of the river.
And, uh, as I'm getting close to her, all of a sudden she just like wakes up
and I see like the muscles flex and I see, she's getting ready.
And well, no, no.
And boom, she goes into the water and she's going to just run away.
So I run forward, I grab her, I pull her back, she strikes at me.
And as she strikes at me, I just, just grab her head right before it hits my face.
So I have this snake, I get another hand on.
So once you have control of the head, they shouldn't be able to bite you.
So I'm like, all right, good.
Got control of the head.
I start screaming for the guys.
I'm like, Jay, Jay, Jay, Jay.
I'm holding onto the snake.
Now here's the thing that I didn't anticipate.
She wraps a coil around my hands.
Suddenly my forearms are tied together.
I want, oh, and then all of a sudden the next coil comes around over my neck.
And so now my, my shoulders and my arms are out of my control.
The snake owns them.
And this is like 150 pound, 200 pound snake.
And so I get pulled to my knees and then she starts the constricting.
Cause as far as she knows, I'm a predator attacking her.
Snake starts constricting my collar bones were inches from touching.
Like my shoulders were just coming together until my, my shoulders were like,
I felt everything about to break right at that minute.
The rest of the guys got there.
They started unwrapping or you have to unwrap an anaconda from the tail.
And so they start unwrapping her.
And I just, I just got this breath.
And it was like the closest I ever came to getting crushed to death by an
anaconda.
And that was one of the first experiences I had with them.
But we returned from that expedition with these photos that made like even the
local people were like, what did you guys do?
Like, are you insane?
And then that's where gringo loco comes from where they started, they all
started calling me gringo loco.
And, uh, but yeah, that's the long winded way of answering your question.
That then when I went home back to New York, eventually I had to do like a
college semester.
I'd like show up for a college semester with like bullet ant stings on me and
like thorns sticking out of my skin.
And I'd be like, yeah, I know I'm 10 days late, but I was taking care of a
giant anteater and they'd be like, what?
But, um, eventually, you know, somebody interviewed me, uh, the guys at
manga bay.com actually, I think we're the first ones to do an interview.
And, uh, it was anacondas and floating forests, the secrets of the Amazon.
And it was just like this thing.
And then ever since then it's just been this people were just, you know,
kind of just like, you're the anaconda guy.
And then that started that, but it was like that, that was just, you know,
at the time we were just barefoot dipshits with, you know, the machete in
the jungle, we didn't have a plan.
We didn't know what we were doing.
I was just trying to like make up for all the time I felt like school had
stolen from me.
I just wanted to go live a life and have fun and have adventures.
Um, it wasn't until later that, you know, the whole protecting the forest
thing came around.
When you went down there, I find it fascinating that they thought you were
psycho for being so obsessed with the snakes, because I don't think, are
those guys, how do they feel it?
They're not going, trying to like touch or catch snakes.
They don't want anything to do with snakes.
Oh God, no, no, no, no, there, I feel like it's something that's
ingrained in a human DNA that we are just inherently terrified of fucking snakes.
Uh, so that's a weird question.
I've always wondered about it because so many people are so scared of snakes,
but two things.
One, if you take a child and you show them a snake, and I'm talking, I've done
this, I've done this with like nieces, nephews, my, my friends, kids, um,
where you will be out on a hike and we'll find like a big black rat snake,
a snake that cannot hurt you if it tried, but it's big and it looks scary.
Get the kid over and get, pick up the snake.
And a lot of times you don't even need to hold them by the head.
So you could touch the tail and the kids like, really, that's amazing.
And they touch the tail and it's, there's no fear.
Um, and the same thing with when you take, uh, I've had, you know,
a 65 year old woman come with me on the tours I lead to the Amazon and just
say, if I even think about a snake, I'll start crying.
And I've done that thing where I catch a snake.
I go sit on, you know, at the research station, I'll go sit on a couch and I'll
say, look, I want, what I want you to do is sit next to me.
I want you to sit next to me.
And sometimes they can't, but then eventually I'm like, look, this is your
goal is you got to sit next to me, sit next to me.
I'm just handling the snake nice and calm and I can calm them down.
And then eventually it's, okay, let, let one bit of the snake go over your finger.
And then it's, okay, maybe let your hand on the back end of the snake.
And then eventually they're holding the snake and then a few things happen.
First of all, they go, this is an amazingly beautiful animal, which it is.
And then next they feel really accomplished.
They overcame their fear and they realize, oh my God, this is nothing to worry
about because most snakes that aren't venomous, like you take like a garter snake.
It's a blue jay could kill it.
Like a bird could eat that if they're helpless.
So, so unless it's a spitting cobra or a bushmaster or a rattlesnake,
snakes for the most part are just little animals that live near ponds and eat
frogs and rats and help us to not have diseases because they control pests.
Is that how you explain it to the indigenous people down there?
Yeah, that and then, you know, they, they would get pissed because we've had a
few things where like, you know, a snake will come into someone's farm and like
eat a goat and the farmer's pissed.
And so we have to go deal with that.
Hopefully rescue the snake before he kills it.
There was one really sad instance where some people had come from a different
they came from a different part of Peru and this family settled in the jungle
and they let their kid go out fishing in a swamp.
And this, I think he was like a nine year old kid and he was sitting there
fishing in the swamp, which, you know, Anaconda grabbed him by the leg,
wrapped him up and killed him and then started to eat him.
And it was almost over his knees.
He went from the head over the knees and then the family showed up and saw it
and they all started beating the snake and trying to, they thought they
could rescue the kid, but by the time a snake is swallowing you, you're dead.
They crushed most of the bones in your body.
So that was very sad because they didn't, they didn't understand that
there's dangerous things out there in the jungle.
And so like Anacondas are not man eaters, but, you know, once in a while,
you know, deer, deer are vegetarians, but in the thick of winter, they
have been known to eat a baby bird in the spring.
You know, it's like whatever, whatever calories you can find in nature.
What is an Anaconda's preferred food?
Oh, capybara, caiman, birds, fish.
And so the crazy.
Really?
Crocodiles?
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Fuck.
Yeah.
So in the Amazon, Anacondas are unique because most species have
like a, like a level that they, they exist in.
So you take like a cat, like a jaguar is going after like deer and wild boar
and things like that.
An Anaconda is born at like two feet and they're live birth.
They're not nags.
So they're born at like two feet long, little thing, you know,
just like, like a thick cigar.
This is a little snake though, that again, like a heron could walk up to
this snake, peck it on the head, swallow it.
So they're food for other species.
The baby caiman are born around the same time of the year.
And so the Anaconda and the baby caiman, these little crocs are facing off.
So who can eat who?
And it's sort of this like arms race, who can grow?
And that's why Anacondas grow quickly.
Um, but what you get with Anacondas is that a baby Anaconda is starting off
with like fish and bugs and frogs.
And then it goes up to like shorebirds, like the herons and the crocs.
And then it's going up to like paca and rabbits and all these other things.
And then at the top of when you get a full grown, you know, 20 foot
Anaconda, 26 foot Anaconda, you're talking about, they could eat tapers.
They could eat something the size of a cow.
They could eat a human.
They could eat a jaguar, the heat whatever they want.
They're an apex predator.
So they go, they have this outsized, um, influence on the ecosystem
that they're in as an apex predator.
So they're really a unique species, like in that regard.
Yeah.
It's fascinating when you see different types of animals and how
vulnerable they are right from birth, like humans are the worst.
Well, humans are humans are pathetic.
I mean, maybe human, a baby deer stands up in the first two minutes.
It's alive, a human, a human can't fend for itself in the first four or
five years of his life.
You know, the parents are all doing adult stuff, you know,
whether it's cutting trees or hunting monkeys or whatever they're doing
to survive.
And then like the kids are sort of like this self governing tribe where
you have like the 13 year olds and the, and the 10 year olds caring for
the younger kids.
And, and like in the evenings, we'd all always be in the river.
And it's like, you're playing with all these like little naked
Amazonian kids and they're all splashing in the water.
And it's like, yeah, there's giant catfish in there and there's Piranha
and there's Cayman and there's Anaconda.
And like everyone, everyone knows what's going on.
You know, they know how to stay safe.
They know what the rules are.
And it's just funny coming back here and seeing like, you know,
helicopter parents when you're like, little Timmy, come here, come here.
Don't go over there.
Don't, don't touch that.
Like put some Purell in your hands and like you have kids over there
and they're like skinning a monkey and just like make an eye contact with
you.
Yeah.
It's so much different here than, I mean, that there's different,
completely different things you got to worry about with your kids here.
Just like crossing the street.
I mean, it's way, way more dangerous.
Yeah.
So how did that whole video come about?
Are you getting eaten by the Anaconda?
Well, okay.
I'll say it like this.
The part of this brief interruption, but I want to take a minute to talk
about this incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now
after it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist, Dr. Dominic
D'Agostino on this podcast.
I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition,
diet and longevity, because as we get older, these things become more and
more important.
That is why I started using Verso.
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs
into products that hold the potential to increase longevity.
I take cell being, this one right here, which contains nicotineamide mononucleotide
or NMN based supplement paired with naturally derived micronized trans
resveratrol and TMG.
These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotanamide
iodine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD.
And NAD is essentially the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity.
If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten
that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity is because your body is
activating these genes called sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes.
The downside is as we age, NAD declines.
When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of
sirtuins and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold.
And it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to
save 15% on your entire order.
That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get 15% off your entire order.
Or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E.
It's linked below back to the show.
First, the first step for that, um, that was a reaction to the things that I'd
seen and you, when you live in the rainforest, you, you see these ancient
trees getting cut and each time an ancient tree gets cut, you know, you're
talking about a skyscraper of life.
You're talking about something where there's reptiles, amphibians,
birds, mammals, lichens, mosses, orchids, all this stuff living on this tree.
It's taken hundreds of years, centuries to become this giant pillar of the
forest.
And then somebody comes in with a chainsaw and then goes down.
And so they do that.
They board it up, send it out, and then they burn with what's left.
And so you see that again and again and again, you go, oh my God, they weren't
lying to me when I was a kid.
The rainforests really are disappearing.
They really are getting destroyed.
And, um, and so I started, we started looking for ways to protect the forest,
which again, as a 20 something year old kid and I'm running, I'm having
all these crazy adventures, great.
Um, and then, you know, one night around a fire, JJ's father, uh, old bad ass
guy that had been in the Amazon his whole life, um, you know, we were talking
and they said, look, if this place isn't going to change into something very
different from what it is, it has to be protected.
You know, we said, well, what does that look like?
And so they just said, we need more support.
We need, we need, you know, somehow we need to, we didn't have a plan.
Um, and so around that time, uh, I got a call from Discovery Channel and
they, they flew me out to LA and they said, look, we, we want to do a show
about Anacondas with you.
And I said, great.
So let's do it.
Um, and I told them how important they are at apex predators, all this stuff.
There's such big, beautiful snakes.
We had all this incredible footage to show them and, uh, they were like,
that's cool, but it's not enough.
They're like, we need, we need something more.
And so I'm sitting in this room and then I told them the story about the
kid that got eaten and then they said, no, no, no, there's no, there's no
confirmed cases of a person being eaten by an Anaconda.
And of course we have confirmed cases of people being eaten by a
reticulated python, but we don't have for Anaconda.
Um, and so I said, so what does that mean?
So it's not true.
Just, you know what I mean?
Like a, a villager out in the middle of the Amazon, if his mother is
eating by an Anaconda, he's not going to go film it with his phone and
upload it to YouTube and go on CNN and be like, got it.
Like that's not how they, yeah.
Um, so like that's not like it doesn't happen.
And then just jokingly, I was like, dude, I should just like getting
some sort of a protective suit and get swallowed to prove that it's possible
because he snakes are huge.
And the guy was just like, that's it.
He's like, you just hit it kid.
And I was like, oh no, oh no.
Um, and then, and then I, I refused it.
And then I, you know, I, I talked to, uh, everyone, my friends and my family.
I asked Jane Goodall about it.
I said, you know, I said, should I, she was like, are you crazy?
She's the head of your mind.
Don't she know anything about snakes?
Yeah.
No, she doesn't, every, she knows everything about everything.
She's, she's Gandalf.
Wow.
She's Gandalf.
Like you think she's like an old lady or something else.
She's a bad ass.
Um, but you know, everyone told me not to do it, but the producers knew, um, I got
an education in like getting screwed by Hollywood.
It's a, you and me both.
Yeah.
Um, they basically were like, we'll give you a two hour special.
You can talk about ecology and conservation and do science, all that shit.
They were like, just at the end, do this stunt.
And if you do that, we'll give you a $3 million budget.
We'll fund your research.
We'll do this and we'll do a huge fundraiser for the forest so you can
protect the habitat.
It was a huge train wreck.
They changed everything.
They didn't record any of the science.
I mean, they did.
They, in the field, they recorded all the science.
We got to the studio.
They threw all that out.
They just put all the, all the, all the, you know, the blood and the craziness
and the fear, you know, like one time they called and they said, you know, we
need you guys to look more scared and it's like drama, the drama.
Um, and, and it ended up in a huge train wreck.
And like, you know, I got trounced and like, you know, like Opie and
Anthony were ripping me apart.
Jimmy Kimmel told me to have sex with a hippo.
I mean.
So where did, where did you film it?
And where did you find the Anaconda JJ and his brother, Pico.
And, and we got some of our, some of our best and brightest of the young
scientists that we work with.
And we did a six week expedition through the Amazon looking for the
largest Anacondas on earth.
And, uh, you know, and I had producers calling me at one point.
I had a producer call on a sat phone.
I'm like sitting by the side of a river in the middle of the Amazon sat phone.
And, uh, the guy calls me and he goes, listen, he goes, we need a danger beat.
We need to lead out to the commercial.
And I was like the day before we just caught like a 15 foot Anaconda.
I was like, bro, that wasn't exciting enough for you.
And he goes, no, no, we need something else.
And I went, well, I don't know, you know, we got work to do here, man.
And he was like, no, no, no, listen, kid.
He was like, you're going to give me a danger beat.
And I went, oh, okay.
So what do you want?
Next day he calls and he goes, look, we sat around a board.
And this is a bunch of people sitting in a fucking air conditioned room in LA.
Right.
And they go, you're going to be going up river and you, he goes, don't worry.
You're going to look like the hero.
Thanks, bro.
Um, he goes, you're going to look like the hero.
He goes, cause you're going up river and you're going to, you're going to
notice that there's black piranha in the river.
He goes, you're going to tell everyone to pull the boat over and then you're
going to take a bucket of blood and pour it into the river.
And then you're going to safely bring your people around the threat.
And I went, how would a piranha hurt us in a boat?
Huh?
We swim in the river every day.
Next, where am I going to get a bucket of blood from?
Um, and next, and he just went, listen, kid.
He was like, unless you think so, what, in the end, what they made us do is
they made us get in a stream and pretend that we were having, uh, an
encounter with a, with an electric eel.
Electric eel.
I mean, we've had encounters with electric eels, but we had to fake it.
None of us are actors.
And so like I had my friends, like up to their chests in this
stream and I was, I had to be like, whoa, guys, hold on.
You know, and like, let's get out.
And like, you can see that we're all fucking acting.
We're not, it looks stupid, but that's what TV does.
They hold the gun to your head and they're like, do what we do.
What we ask.
Yeah.
Um, and so that, that was a huge, and it, it ended up costing me a lot.
You know, like when you hear people talk about, you know, like, I just, I
lost like, you know, a lot of scientists didn't want to deal with me.
Pita came out after me because they said I was trying to hurt snakes.
And then America didn't like it because I didn't actually get eaten.
Um, so like, I got it from like, from all ends.
And then, uh, but what I say now though is like, look, you know, to people
who criticize me for it, like, and I just missed out on a big
environmental award, like six years later because somebody Googled it and
they were like, aren't you that guy that did that thing?
And I'm like, yeah.
And they were like, all right, disqualified.
I was going to win this like big award for like $60,000 and, um, disqualified.
And I was like, for a show that hurt no animals that tried to protect the forest,
no, you know, crimes were committed.
And it's just like what happens when you, I took a swing.
You know what I mean?
I took, I took a swing and it missed, but you've got to try.
And like, that's the thing.
And that's what I would say to anybody.
Cause it's, I'm still, every now and then it's somebody will still be like,
you're the anaconda guy.
And it's like, yeah, how much forest are you protecting?
What's the biggest thing you ever did?
What's the biggest thing you ever sacrificed to try and protect something you love?
That's the thing with TV, man.
It's so, oh, it's so dramatic.
It's like anything you watch on any of those, I don't care if it's history
channel or the science channel or whatever, every single one of those shows,
like the, here's the big problem.
Most of the times, for example, like on the history channel, they will talk
about something legit.
Like they'll go and study something legit.
Like the, but my best example of it is that skinwalker ranch show.
There's the, there's this crazy ranch up in the middle of like the Midwest
that supposedly has like a lot of UFO sightings and shit, weird shit happening
there and there's like actual documented science of that place.
Yeah.
But then they go make this TV show and they fucking script it to death and they
have all these people, they bring them in and they turn it into this big fucking
dog and pony show and it just ruins it and it discredits the whole entire, the
whole entire area, the whole entire topic.
It's fucking pathetic.
Yeah.
No, so that was, that was a learning experience.
So that was like by 24, 25, 26 or something.
Um, yeah, I'd been through that.
And then so I pretty much had to like chappelle myself and go to another country.
So I went, I went and stayed in India because like after that, it was just
like the media was just killing me.
I was getting like death threats in my, because then I, and then I made the
mistake of saying that, uh, I don't think that people should keep snakes in small
cages, you know, they're wild animals and I appreciate them and stuff.
And then I got, which I never knew existed the herp community.
It's like a bunch of dudes that keep snakes in boxes and like their moms
basements and these people came out by the thousands and like, we're just
like going crazy on social media, um, because they love keeping, torturing
snakes and small boxes in their mom's basements.
They have like, they have like filing cabinets filled with amazing snakes from
all over the world that never see the light of day.
It's basically horrendous animal abuse.
And it's a herp community because herpatology is, is reptiles and then
they'll even go as far as to say, like, oh, we're conservationists because
we're protecting these species out of the wild.
And it's like, no, you're, you're just a society of tools, but what are they
actually doing?
They just like keeping like a, they'll have like a Sumatran spitting
cobra and a Tupperware over there.
And then they'll like take it out and like show some people and then like,
on the, like on the internet, like on a video or something, some of them on
the internet, some of them, I've been, I've been to these, but you know, I go
and hang out with everybody.
I've been to some of these basements and there's the most amazing stuff.
I mean, like really rare animals that these guys will get at like reptile shows.
And then they have literal, I mean, you can look it up.
You can look it up.
There's, there's, there's a guy on YouTube who he's, he always has like
videos of like reticulated pythons striking at him.
He's like a kind of like older guy with a beard.
He's kind of heavy and he's, he makes these like really wacky videos where
there's like snakes striking at him.
But if you look behind him, there's like filing cabinets of snakes.
And I think, I think they're like an exotic pet dealer.
Oh, okay.
And so they like, there's like a whole dude that's big in Florida.
Is it really?
Oh my God, yes.
You could, you can buy anything.
Yeah.
That's why you guys have Burmese pythons here.
Cause I thought that's, they leaked out.
Do you spend, you don't spend any time in Florida, do you?
Not a lot.
Um, Florida's the closest thing to the Amazon in the US.
Dude, it's pretty wild.
It's pretty close, right?
Yeah.
I mean, the close compared to a lot of the other places in the US,
you can go out in a swamp and catch a 16 foot Burmese python.
That's pretty cool.
It is pretty cool.
That's pretty cool.
You got the Florida panthers and you know, there's some really
important wildlife here, like Florida's no joke.
How long has this issue with companies coming into the Amazon and getting
these loggers and these miners and all of these various industries?
How long have they been coming in and tearing out the rainforest?
This is long before you went down there, right?
Oh yeah.
No, this is like centuries, man.
Like we, I mean, like Darwin was writing about, like, if they keep
doing this, eventually it's going to be a huge problem.
Um, you got to remember Teddy Roosevelt and John Muir were, you know,
trying to protect the sequoias in the, in the North, in the United States.
We cut 97% of the old growth forest that existed on the United States when
Europeans showed up, 97%.
So all the forest just got cleared and thrown into fucking kilns for the, uh,
for the industrial revolution.
Like we murdered the ecosystems of North America.
And then with chainsaws and boat motors, you know, everything in the Amazon is
rivers, you move, it's a, it's a, it's a region of rivers.
And so once you had boat motors and chainsaws, you could get people out
there and they could start cutting down trees.
And then of course, with the modern era and the last 30, 40 years where you
have roads going into the Amazon, where you actually have like excavators and
go bulldoze the trees down and then get people in there.
And then they can really start doing some damage.
So we've seen just Amazonian deforestation skyrocket in the like
the last 50 years.
And that's corresponded with that all over the world in the Congo, in Indonesia.
We're at this point suddenly in history where we're losing habitat really quickly.
We're losing species really quickly.
And that's why they call it the sixth extinction.
We're losing species at a rate.
That's almost similar to when the dinosaurs went extinct.
And so that's totally human caused.
And since 1970, we've lost something like over 50% of the wildlife on this planet.
And that's not the species, but that's how numerous they are.
50% of the wildlife that was in this planet is gone because of the human
activity, because we control 70% of the landmass.
That's not under the ice.
And we're clearing habitat.
I mean, in Indonesia, we're just leveling it for palm oil, the Congo rainforest,
all that tropical hardwood, they're taking it out.
The Amazon, they're cutting new roads, the Trans-Amazon Highway.
The Chinese want to come in and do rubber plantations in the Amazon.
It's like the threats are unbelievable.
And it's so ridiculous because rainforests only cover something like 6% of our planet
and have like 50% of the terrestrial life contained in there.
And there's so much medicines and indigenous wisdom from the cultures that live there
and all the biodiversity that we depend on and those systems that keep us alive.
Whether you live in New York or Tokyo, you depend on the climate stability
that rainforests provide.
And so it's like it's one of those things.
I went on Fox News once and the guy goes, you know, it was actually kind of fun.
As I get in the studio, he goes, oh, what the hell?
I can't remember his name.
I think it was Varney, but he was like a he was a he was a finance guy.
And I appreciated it because I was still new to doing interviews and stuff.
And he leans over and he goes, listen, kid, he goes, the second that green light
goes on, he goes, I'm going to come at you like a tiger.
He goes, but it's all part of the thing.
He goes, I'm supposed to like it's the type of show I do.
And I said, all right, I said, I'm ready.
And like, they went three, two, one action.
And he went, you better not be one of these greenies.
He's like, you're your pathetic tree hugger.
And he started like coming right at me.
And I was just like, dude, I was like, if you have people in populations
that can't breathe the air and drink the water, it's bad for business.
So don't tell me that the economy is going to be doing good when when
the ecosystems collapse.
And he was just like, he was like, nice.
And then we fought over it for a while.
But like, you know, of course, his thing was, you know, screw the environment.
Let's let's keep growing, you know?
Uh-huh.
And I was trying to make the case that, you know, you can't have an
economy without nature.
It all goes back to, you know, mining and water and trees at the end of the days.
Who is who is making the argument that don't fucking worry about it.
We've been chopping down the rainforest since the fifties.
It's nothing is nothing's changing.
It's not going to change our lives or our grandkids lives.
Or who's making those arguments?
Well, plenty of people are making those arguments.
What up? What is that argument?
The argument is like, oh, well, I mean, look here, I'll tell you this,
I stay away from climate change because I do talks all over the world
for businesses or schools.
Doesn't matter.
And I stay away from climate change because when you say, guys, global
climate change, a lot of people go, well, where, how can you prove it?
And who are the scientists?
And it's it's a lot of like ethereal sort of facts.
And it's difficult.
And then some people, you'll get some people come on and go, you know,
look, the thing is, it's not what you think there's work.
We're coming out of an ice age.
And so then everybody can argue over it.
And so what I've done with my conservation careers, I stick to numbers
that you can't argue with, like how much we've depleted our oceans,
how sharks are becoming in danger due to shark finning,
how bycatch is ruining the life.
So our fisheries are collapsing.
You can't argue with that. That's a fact.
Right.
The fact that rainforests are disappearing.
That's a fact.
The fact that we're losing species like rhinos and elephants
and things at an accelerated rate that could put them extinct within our lifetimes.
Those are facts.
And so I try to stick to things that I've seen personally, that I can prove with data.
And so that's that's really what I what I tend to stick on.
But I just I've just just recently I was listening to a podcast
and it's a shame because so much of what Jordan Peterson is so so fantastic
and he's so linguistically gifted and his whole message is helping people
and making the world a better place.
And then he goes, but I really don't think there's any problem with the environment.
And I'm like, have you been outside?
I'm like, I get it.
You've studied the Greek philosophers and the Roman philosophers.
I was like, you have a major hole in your understanding, my friend.
Like, I love the guy.
But man, I was like, I was like, I wanted to grab him.
I was like, no, I don't think he's been outside.
I don't I just don't think he has.
Yeah, that's unfortunate.
That's unfortunate.
You know, and and there's, you know, there's people like him.
There's a lot of people who make a lot of smart, you know, concise points
or arguments about the economy and the history and the numbers of it.
And where our climate's been, where the economy's been and the population
of whatever it might be.
But the hard thing for you is your hearts in it, because your feet are on the ground
and you're you've lost your blood to the rainforest and you've had to survive in there.
So it's different for you.
Yeah. And so when I hear like Elon Musk be like, oh, I'm worried about depopulation.
Bro, we have eight billion people on earth.
The earth is choking under the mountain of human shit that is being created.
And you're worried about depopulation.
It's like, I want to I want to run up and smack him in the mouth.
Yeah. Well, he's talking about birth rate.
He's talking about the birth rate is going down at like a tremendous rate.
And I guess if you do the math, our population will be like, I forget the numbers,
but I think it'll be like one one thousandth of what it is now in a couple of decades.
OK, or not a couple of imagine the wealth that everyone could have.
Imagine the poverty we could alleviate if instead of eight billion people,
there was three billion people.
Right.
And then everyone could have access to doctors and airplanes
and Netflix accounts and all this wonderful stuff.
And you wouldn't have to have people chopping down the rainforest
because they're starving to my God.
Did you see that thing that came out in the New York Times?
There was a guy that was interviewed.
I'm going to text this to you, Austin.
You can pull it up.
There is a guy they did this this feature on in the New York Times
that his life has been devoted to depopulating the earth.
What? And he's like doesn't he says he doesn't advocate for suicide.
But hold on, let me find it real quick.
Yeah, well, no, that's that's the other extreme, though,
because then you get you get these anti human environmentalists
that are like humans are bad.
Right. Well, I mean, we are kind of like maggots eating eating a corpse.
Aren't we? See, I disagree with that.
I think there's a lot of anti human sentiment and environmentalism.
And it's like, I love humans.
I love art, I love culture, I love music, I love my family.
I think that I think that we're awesome.
I mean, the shit that we do is incredible.
It's just we're so disorganized.
We're so like we're like we're like an obese,
like a morbidly obese animal in the in the in the in the in the forest,
just like eating all the food in reach and shitting all over itself.
It's like if you could just stop that.
Yeah, like certain parts of us,
certain parts of us are like that, but certain parts of us are not.
Like the people that just fucking consume
and trash the earth and and and I don't even I take that back.
It's the people that are the most desperate on earth are the ones
that it's not that it's not the lazy people.
It's the people that are desperate that are doing that.
Like the people that are in the Amazon, I'm sure that are those people.
I'm sure just trying to feed their families,
just like the people in Colombia who are making who are manufacturing
cocaine for the cartels.
So yeah, so go to this.
You just pulled the picture.
Pull up his actual Twitter
and then find the find the The New York Times article.
But yeah, it's it's people that are that are desperate
that will do anything they can to feed their families.
And the most the most available thing are these things
that fucking kill people or that destroy natural resources.
And I mean, who suffers first from a dirty environment?
I mean, usually it's it's the it's the poorest people that still rely on
fishing that still rely on water from a stream.
You know, in India,
international farming organizations came in and like bought up all this
farmland and sold fertilizer and got them all in debt.
And then like 70,000 Indian farmers committed suicide in 2008
because they needed the land and American corporations came in
into the farmer suicides.
It's like this major thing.
And it's like those people were just trying to survive on the land.
And it's like the corporations came in and ruined that for them.
So it's like we're literally like when I see deforestation,
when I see dams on rivers, I see it as self-inflicted wounds.
Like I'm not, you know, there's there's environment.
There's environmentalists like those
that the the losers who were going and throwing throwing
Campbell soup on paintings in Europe right now.
Yeah, they're just like, you know, narcissistic, psychotic teenagers
who again, who've never been outside,
who don't understand that all of this stuff is fixable,
that you can work with corporations to be more sustainable.
You can put pressure on them.
You know, if you say like, OK, Nutella is using palm oil
and it's deforestation Indonesia.
It's like, well, enough people just don't buy Nutella for a year.
They will listen because it'll affect their bottom line.
So it's it really is in our hands.
It's just it's just it's almost more complex
and more simple at the same time than we think
because all we're trying to do is not cut down trees.
Yeah. So I mean, if you if you look at it the opposite way,
basically, the reason for all of this is economics.
Right. It's just it's just it's just economics and money.
So there's a lot of mountains.
And it's hard to tell people, let's boycott Nutella
or let's not use paper.
You would have to come up with some sort of competing,
something economically that competes with it
and that is more viable and that pays better.
Yeah, exactly.
You have to make everybody win.
So for example, you can't make everybody a social justice warrior.
No. And so there's two things.
That's all right. Forget it.
Awesome. We don't need to look at it.
Two things that are that have jumped out to me is like one.
One of the things they love to do is like
they'll have these like conferences and they'll be like,
you all need to like turn the water off when you brush your teeth
and like remember not to use straws, you know, and it's like, OK.
So you're telling me that when I go to Dunkin' Donuts,
I got to remember not to use a straw and that's going to save the world.
It's like, no, what about stop producing straws or Styrofoam
or find something so that we don't have to have millions
and millions of plastic bottles?
You can't put this in the hands.
Even though even a wealthy American who has a family.
They don't have the time to if you start, OK, well, I recycle.
I compost. I ride my bike to work.
I did it by the time you get done being the greatest green warrior you can be.
Your whole life revolves around that.
And so it's like, no, you need to stop putting the guilt on the consumer
and start, you know, like when we went from VHS to DVDs,
nobody asked us if we were doing that.
You just one day you went to blockbuster and you went, huh, I got.
We got to get a DVD player because that's what we use now.
And it's like they we just need to update the technology that we use.
So we stopped putting all this plastic in the medical field.
Crucial. We need plastic. It's a miracle.
Well, the perfect that's that's a great example.
The DVDs versus the VHS.
Sony came out with DVDs.
And then the other company said, oh, shit, they got DVDs.
We got to fucking do DVDs.
And then that was it.
Right. Very quickly.
I mean, I remember being a kid and everything was like VHS.
And then all of a sudden there was like the DVD era.
And then very quickly, then like, I feel like Netflix pushed it into the digital.
Yeah. And then everybody else followed.
And then everyone else followed everybody.
And I feel like as late as like three years ago, my mom went,
I really like that movie. Can we get that on DVD?
And I went, well, play it. Where?
Where do you want to play it?
I was like, I could probably find it.
Oh, that's fucking hilarious, man.
So what so what are the economics driving
everything that's killing the rainforest that the rainforest is incredibly
profitable when you cut down, you know, an old growth mahogany tree?
It's worth sometimes tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.
These are incredible.
Hardwoods. I mean, look at like you go to like Ikea.
That's all like particle board.
It's all like sawdust that they've glued together with resin.
It's all crap.
But if you're talking about real wood,
like hard quality wood that takes hundreds of years to grow, that stuff is valuable, man.
That is valuable.
And so so you have the locking guys going after that.
You have the land grabbers like this shit from Home Depot that I got.
I got those from Home Depot.
This looks like some real wood here.
And these are pieces.
This is a man. I got these pieces from Home Depot and I just stained them.
So like when you go to Home Depot, you go to the lumber section.
Yeah. Yeah. But this is this is I don't know what this is, but it's nice.
Or maybe it's just the stain that's making it look like it's the stain.
No, I stained it. Yeah.
But yeah, I mean, they're tearing it up because, you know, in Indonesia,
they're literally clearing the forest as if it's a wasteland.
And then they're throwing up palm trees so they can farm palm oil to put in Nutella
and a bunch of other products and soaps and stuff.
And it's like it's pointless.
You're ruining literally.
It's like it's like burning down the Sistine Chapel.
You're ruining one of the greatest representations of beauty we have on this
planet. And it's like setting that on fire to like heat up a hot pocket.
It makes no sense.
Like it's just like us burning down a house right now to cook a meal.
It's just like it's not you might you understand a tenth of the process.
Like and so that's what we're doing.
That's what we're allowing to be done.
And you know, it's of course, if you go to a building and you
break something, it's vandalism.
If you go to a river and you put a dam and kill all the fish and then all the
farmers downstream of there can't irrigate their crops and everybody dies.
It's just progress.
That's the way the world works right now.
That's why we're in this problem.
Because think about it.
If if people weren't allowed to stop rivers, if people weren't allowed to burn
down forests, if there was actual consequences for this, if people weren't
allowed to kill black rhinos, there'd still be black rhinos.
They've been here for hundreds of millions of years.
And so like that's the thing that people don't understand with with all the
stuff, you know, they go, we're losing elephants at a rate that they'll be
extinct in our lifetimes.
It's like, no, we're not losing elephants.
They're being shot and massacred every single day to the point that there
might not be any more elephants because we're allowing humans to do that.
If we weren't there, these things would be fine.
They've been doing this.
They engineered the world we live in.
And we are we are a whole livelihoods to elephants.
I mean, my God, they're they're they're part of the they
raised us.
They're like our siblings in evolution.
My God, we they had such a huge impact on the ecosystems of ancient landscapes.
Like during the last Ice Age, there were so many other elephant like creatures.
And they're constantly breaking things and and forging paths through Bush.
And I mean, they are so influential in creating the ecosystems that we call home on earth.
And again, of course, if you reduce it down further without those ecosystems,
we'd be a dead planet just like everywhere else without the plants and the animals.
You know, without birds pollinating plants, without plants creating soil,
we wouldn't have the physical things to it.
So it's like this this problem that we're having with with conservation is actually
like almost moronic when you break it down.
Because it's like it's literally we're just we're just we're just cutting our own risks.
We're just that's what we're doing.
It's it makes no sense.
How can you explain to me how the government like the governments of Brazil
or some of the other countries, how they structure the economics of the rainforest?
You were explaining how they take certain sections
and they allocate them to certain industries or you could buy.
How does can you explain that?
Yeah, I mean, there's a this is again, this is a complicated thing
and it differs from country to country.
So the Amazon is in like eight or nine countries.
And then, of course, you have the Congo and you have Indonesia.
But there's all these different rainforest countries.
But like in Brazil, for example, I know that in the there's a new president there, right?
There is a new president there.
Thank the Lord, because the other guy pretty much hated the Amazon
and wanted to burn it, Bolsonaro, right?
Like he actively said that like he was actively like we need to occupy.
And so that's a result of that a couple of decades ago,
whatever was going on politically in Brazil, they had.
They were literally learning in school that if we don't occupy the Amazon,
someone's going to come take it.
And so since it's just land, it could be invaded.
And so their thing was occupy the Amazon.
And it's such a strange concept because who is going to do that?
You know what I mean? But the thing with the jungle is that
because you're out past, well, that's another topic,
but it's it's very lawless once you get out past there
because you can't get law enforcement out there.
And so like sort of like medieval law resumes,
but we can get to that later because there's there's a lot to unpack there.
But like in Peru, where I work, I'm in the Peruvian Amazon,
which is the headwaters of the Amazon.
And so the government says like, OK, this plot can be for mining.
This plot can be for logging.
This plot can be for conservation.
But that doesn't work. That's not how a forest works.
You know what I mean?
There's there's populations of wildlife that move and migrate through an ecosystem.
So if you log this and you mine this and you do that in a bunch of other places,
then there's a little block here with that's for conservation.
You've created an island.
It's not useful to anything.
This all has connectivity.
Jaguars migrate up and down through Central America, up and down through South America.
Tigers migrate up and down through India.
The elephants move across the land like the birds migrate entire hemispheres.
Like these are you can't nature doesn't understand political boundaries or fence lines.
And the problem is that our whole thing is political boundaries and fence lines.
And so the way these governments chop this up and they go, we want this land,
they look at it and they go, we want.
This land to be contributing to the economic productivity of the country.
And so one of the greatest problems that we have to solve
and some countries are working on this is like, is that we don't look at a river
and see it as a life giving force.
We don't see it as something that's contributing to the economy.
How much money are we gaining from the Hudson River
by the fact that New York City has beautiful, free, clean drinking water?
What's that worth per year?
You know, or the fact that those forests are providing those ecosystem services.
It's like that doesn't get considered.
So the default is always that, you know, when an industrialist comes in and goes,
I want to build a dam and it's going to create this many kilowatts of power.
And it's going to, well, suddenly that's we have to fight that.
So environmentalists are always on the defensive
because there's always this beautiful river with the salmon and the bears
and the wolves and the Eagles.
And then somebody comes and sticks a wall up there and then all the salmon die
and then the local people can't fish.
And then all of a sudden the predators are starving.
And then all of a sudden, oh, we're putting DDT on the ground.
Now, the Eagles are going extinct because their eggs,
because the DDT is getting into the fish.
Their eggs are falling apart.
So DDT was a pesticide that we were using in the U.S.
And this is creepy as hell, because like people like my parents
actually remember playing in the they used to there's a movie
where they showed this to with these trucks used to come around
and they used to like spray insecticide through like suburbia.
And the idea was we'll help by killing mosquitoes.
And what happened was is this got into the water system and got into the fish.
Bald Eagles were eating DDT laced fish.
And the DDT was causing the Bald Eagles to have their eggs were not as thick.
The shell wasn't as thick.
And so when the mother would sit on them to keep them warm, the eggs would break.
And we almost lost Bald Eagles.
We almost lost our national bird.
And so like in the 70s, right around the time the EPA was forming and stuff,
it looked like we were going to lose Bald Eagles.
And so now that the flip side of that is that once we stopped using DDT
and killing the Bald Eagles, their populations boomed back.
And now I have a Bald Eagle living right next to my house in New York.
And the same thing happened with humpback whales during the whaling times.
You had people all over the world and ships just hauling in whales,
all kinds of whales, right whales, humpback whales, everything.
Humpback whales went from 130,000 global population around that.
Down to, I think, about 7000.
Now, again, think about it, the out of future bank account.
You know what I mean?
Like, could you bounce back?
And then, of course, they banned whaling and in the almost a century
since they've banned whaling, humpback whales are almost back to pre whaling numbers.
And so again, proving the point that if we stop murdering these species
before they can even reproduce, they'll be fine.
They were here long before we got here.
And so, like, that's the core of what I'm trying to spread to everyone.
It's like, you know, I've spent time with these species,
whether it's spider monkeys or elephants or anacondas or just the forest itself.
And it's like, I've at this point, you know, it started off as
let's go on a fun adventure.
And now it's become, you know, these these creatures in these places,
they can't put on a suit and go address the United Nations.
And it's like, well, you got to be a voice for them.
Other than loggers and gold miners.
Yeah. What other industries are down there?
Are they are they all just like rogue groups of guys
like showing up with tons of equipment?
Yeah. So you have loggers down there.
And then you have the gold miners and the gold miners.
They're a tough bunch.
They will burn your house down because they're again, it's poor people
that can't figure out another way of making a living.
So they'll go and they'll just get like an old motor and a hose.
And somehow they're getting mercury and in the Amazonian soils,
which is like so fine that it's almost sterile.
There's like no oxygen in those soils.
And so especially in the West Amazon, the gold is embedded in the sand.
So it's like particulate.
So you could just barely see it.
You almost need a microscope to see gold in the particles of the sand.
So you like wash the water over the sand in your hand
and you just start to see these little crystals, little bits of gold.
So what they do is they'll cut a forest, burn the forest
and then they'll dredge it basically and they'll suck the land up
through these huge hoses, run it through a whole sluice machine.
And then at the bottom, they collect the heaviest sediment
and the gold settles to the bottom.
And then they mix mercury in with that and the mercury binds to the gold.
And then what they do is they come out with this like thing,
this ball, this ingot of mercury that has gold in it.
And then they like that on fire.
And I've been next to them when they do this.
And we all know how bad mercury is for you.
And it's like, I literally watched a guy smoke in a cigarette,
burning with a little blow torch.
He's burning this ball of mercury and the fumes are coming up,
going straight into his face, his little like two year old sitting right next to him.
He's burning mercury as it's entering the atmosphere
to get this little bit of gold that he got from destroying acres of the Amazon rainforest.
And now the people in that region of the Amazon rainforest
have mercury levels in their own bodies that are about eight times
what's safe for humans to have because they're getting it from the fish
because it's going up into the atmosphere, joining the rain and coming back down to the rivers.
The fish have it and it's going to the humans and now kids are coming out with like six eyes.
Oh, my God.
And so this is like a perfect example where if you just so let's rewind that back.
How do you stop this problem?
Give that guy a better job.
And that's what we started doing.
I mean, we're, you know, we're we're small.
We're we're we are literally a teardrop in the ocean.
But in our region, what we've started doing is going up to these gold miners and just going, hey.
How much do you make doing that?
You know, you realize you could just bring guests from all over the world.
You could have fun.
You don't get chased by the police.
And you could you could make your life doing ecotourism,
showing people the rainforest and being a protector of it.
You become a jungle keeper with us.
And then, you know, so we try and work with them with that.
We try to bring them in.
We've done that with loggers.
We've done that with gold miners.
And so it's really and a lot of times these are super nice people.
These are people I spent Christmas with the gold miners last year.
Did you? Yeah. Yeah.
These are guys that like, you know, now they're like, oh, you've changed our lives.
You know, we're not getting arrested every other week.
You know, the I was with them when the Peruvian armed forces came down the river.
They blew up their gold mining barge.
They were arresting them.
I mean, they were chasing them through the forest.
It was it was madness.
I said, do you like this?
I said, is this fun for you?
And he goes, no, he goes, my dad was a gold miner.
I don't he goes, I don't really know what else to do.
He's like, I got, I got, I got mounts to feed back there.
He goes, I got it. I got to do what I got to do.
And I was like, OK, OK, OK, I was like, just try ego tourism.
I was like, there's an unlimited amount of people up north
that want to see the rainforest.
Who are they selling this gold to?
They go to town and they sell the gold to brokers.
So these guys don't make a ton of money.
The guys that are doing it on the ground, of course.
And then those guys sell it to the next guy, sell it to the next guy.
And then it makes it to, you know, deeper into the gold market
until it gets mixed in with.
And I don't I believe it's what's coming out of the West Amazon
is not even a particularly high quality gold either.
I don't know the details of it specifically.
I've just seen the devastation.
I've seen, dude, there was a lake.
Oh, one of the worst things I ever saw.
There was this lake, me and this guy,
Borean, who was the gold miner, we went to this lake
and there was this one day we went and he goes, let's get some piranha.
Like the sun was setting like smoking cigarettes.
And we had sticks with, you know, just a stick with a fishing line on it and a hook.
And you have to you have to put metal on the hooks
that the piranha can't bite off the the line, you know.
And so you catch a first fish and then you chop that one up and you put the hook
and boom, all of a sudden they love to cannibalize each other.
So we're pulling piranhas up one after the other, one after the other.
And he's so good at he's got the he's got the technique as soon as it bites.
You just pull it up out of the water and I had his backpack.
And so I'm just catching piranha, boom, boom, catching him in the backpack.
One after the other, like ten minutes.
We filled a whole backpack filled with piranha.
And then, you know, this beautiful lake.
We're watching black caiman swim across the lake.
We saw places where there was big anacondas.
We saw Jaguar tracks.
It was paradise on earth.
It was like the wildest place.
It was literally avatar.
And so I went back called in a group.
I got I was like that we got to show people this and I brought a group of tourists there.
This was about a year later and we're going up river.
And I was like in this great mood.
We were all having fun.
We're sort of like yelling and talking on the boat on the way up.
I'm like, we're going to go piranha fishing.
You guys are going to love this so much.
It's the wildest place we go through the forest and we start walking.
And we get to where the where the the part where the path opens up onto this lake
and the lake was gone.
The the the water was gone and that and it's just a sand pit.
And there was a gold mining dredge there.
The gold miners had gotten to the lake and they wanted to see if there was gold in there.
And so what they had done was they had pumped out the entire lake.
They had burned the surrounding forest.
All the wildlife was gone.
And this incredibly beautiful pristine spot on earth.
Was just like deleted.
And I had all these all these tourists behind me like blinking going, wait, when when's when's the fun part?
And I was like, I just had tears in my eyes.
And I looked at I looked at Borean and he just went minus one lake
and just like turned around and walked back.
And it was like somewhere that he had been fishing for generations.
Like, you know, his his father had shown him.
And it was like this beautiful spot that will never come back.
And it was like, it was it was hard to see.
And so we we have to deal with a lot of that with what I do
because you just see these beautiful places.
I mean, it's literally it's literally it's literally like,
you know, people could say what they want about the movie Avatar,
but it's like literally the same storyline.
It's just, you know, a piranha. Any good?
Yo, piranha.
If I may, if I had piranha for you right now, you would.
I would love to eat it until you fell over.
It's so. Oh, my God, fried piranha.
What? What could you compare it to?
I don't know. It's a bit bony.
So you got to like fry the shit out of it
because you don't want to have to pick through the bones.
You want to just eat the bones.
Oh, really? Yeah.
So you you get them on the hook and then you
kind of like a sardine.
I guess, but they're bigger than that, though.
You know, they're they're pretty.
They're that big. Yeah, they get pretty big.
They got to be careful when you're getting them off the hook, man.
You got to you got to have a stick.
You got to have a wax stick
because you get the piranha up on the boat.
You got to you got to hit them. Stun them.
Otherwise, I always thought there's a little clip
in that dark green documentary where you're stunning.
Is that? Yeah.
It's a piranha. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You you really got to watch.
I know guys from missing the tip of their finger
because they just, you know, what how much
like how big of a worry are the piranha?
Like when you're swimming, like there's a bunch of clips
of you in that documentary, just jumping out of the boat into the river.
Like are they are they everywhere?
Are they pretty much like basically like jumping in the in the ocean?
Worry about a shark like you can swim anywhere in here.
It's like a shark. Yeah.
But also piranha don't tend to they're like eating other fish
and doing other stuff.
The only time that you get that that legendary thing
where piranha will like destroy you and turn you into a skeleton.
And if you have a lake where the vegetation is growing in
and growing in and that's what happens.
So some of these lakes, the jungle will actually start to eat the lake
as the vegetation comes in and eventually it'll absorb it.
And you can see it from Google, like from Earth, from satellite.
You can look down, you see these depressions in the forest
that where the vegetation is a little different
because it used to be a lake and the jungles eating it.
But right before that lake disappears,
you have this piranha population in that lake that is psychotic.
And there's no food because they've eaten everything else.
They've eaten all the other fish.
Now they're eating each other and they've gone crazy.
So if you take anything and throw in there,
they will turn it into a skeleton in moments.
But that's like that's like
that's like you that's like being like on top of a mountain
in a lightning storm with a with a lacrosse stick in the air.
It's just like, oh, really?
It's like, it's not.
That doesn't happen. Oh, OK.
It doesn't happen.
That being said, we we do swim everywhere.
We swim in all the rivers.
But the thing is, like it does help to know exactly where you are.
We were on an expedition about a year ago
and we stopped by the side of this stream and JJ gets out.
He's like, let's let's like go fishing.
He takes me because we go machete fishing.
We just like walk around until you see a fish and just whack it.
So he goes, all right, let's go fishing.
I go, cool, you you start.
I'll be here.
I'm going to start getting this ready, whatever else.
I threw a few hooks in the river
and all of a sudden something starts pulling on my hook
and I'm going, this is not a fish.
And this thing is really strong.
And all of a sudden, I just see this huge electric eel
like breach out of the water.
It's like an eight foot electric eel.
And I'm like, JJ, I never had an electric eel on a hook before.
And so he comes back and he's trying.
He's trying to get it off the hook and he doesn't know what to do.
So finally, just wax it because I think he also just wanted to see it.
But it was like this giant, absolutely monstrous,
eight foot long electric eel and sort of like shit. OK.
Well, glad we didn't like, you know,
get too, too deep into the stream.
So we start walking again and then two more electric eels
come swimming over this rock. Oh, shit.
And then a stingray goes by and we were just like this stream.
They're like next stream, the next one.
Like this was the stream from absolute hell.
Like it was just filled with piranha electric eels, stingrays,
like everything in this stream, the next hook that came out of the water
was this giant stingray about this big.
And it was just like stabbing upwards and it was just like, oh my God.
So we were just we all were like, ah, next next dude.
I don't know what it was with that one stream, but it was like not this stream
from hell. Yeah, this is not the one.
So you could essentially you could be you could jump in the water
and swim past this school of piranha and be fine.
We do it every day, every day, every single day in the Amazon.
I jump in the water.
Like that's how I shower.
I don't want to smell like.
And you're not worried about piranha at all.
No. OK. Not at all.
Maybe if you have like a cut or something, can they smell blood?
I don't know. I always have cuts, man.
I'm always all banged up, but I I stepped on a crocodile once barefoot.
He was on the bottom.
I stepped on his head and he like moved.
He was like, stop it and move to the side.
What is the number one most terrifying thing you do not want to run into
when you're down there?
The human who's there is tribes out there.
And so to explain this, there's the on the Internet, if you search,
if you if you if we can pull it up, if you search like uncontacted tribes,
Amazon, yeah, there are tribes living out in the Amazon that have been there
for centuries and they are living like that because during the periods
of extraction and during the conquistador era, they were the tribes
that went back and said, we're not getting conquered.
You see, I go to Peru, I already speak Spanish.
It's because of the Spanish. Right.
These are the tribes that backed up crazy that they came down here
and like that people in South America got Spanish from the Spaniards.
Yeah. Yeah.
So see that see that big patch in the lower left hand corner
of South America right there.
That's we're like in one of the main areas.
Yeah, right above where the cursor just was.
But we have uncontacted tribes in the region.
That's all you got. You can't pull up anything better than that.
Come on, get us some some photos.
One photo on on on on Google where they are they're painted red and black.
There we go. There we go.
Right on the top line.
Go to the top right there.
Like, yeah, that one.
These people are living out there.
And what they're doing in that photo is they are trying to shoot
the the plane that's flying over.
No fucking way.
And they don't speak a language that any of us speak.
You see that see the red one?
You see that red one?
Right by the hut. Yes. Yeah.
They use medicinal compounds as insecticide.
And a lot of times that dies their skin.
So you get purple ones, you get black ones, you get red ones.
That's his skin. That's red.
Yeah. But I mean, it's been died. It's been died.
It's like it's like so there's a there's a purple plant down there.
You rub on your fingers.
It's a leaf and you you go like this.
And then the mosquitoes will stay away from you.
Yeah. So these people are living with no clothing on
with no permanent shelter in the Amazon rainforest.
And they've been doing this for a few thousand years
and they're still out there.
And so the scariest thing that you could possibly run into in the Amazon is that
they what? Well, why would they why would they be threatening to other humans?
Well, because.
The story, as I understand it, is like the last contact
that a lot of these tribes had with the outside world was during the rubber boom.
And the rubber boom was at the turn of the century, like early 1900s
to the Industrial Revolution.
We needed gaskets and hoses and factory stuff.
And so all of a sudden bike tires, car tires, we needed rubber
for the first time in history.
And the only place you could get rubber was the Amazon, because that's where the rubber trees grew.
So we sent everybody to the Amazon and we sent these rubber barons who went down
and they just enslaved the local people.
And they said, you're going to go out into the forest all day long
and you're going to harvest rubber for us.
And so it was like one of the worst human holocausts on the planet
because they went and just massacred the indigenous population.
God, is that a rubber tree?
Horrendous. That is a rubber tree.
There has to have a score of the bark.
Yeah, it'll go into the bucket.
That's literally where latex comes from.
That's how we got it. Same.
And so again, like thinking about like, how does industry come back to nature?
It's like, we got rubber from there, the Amazon.
And so during this horrendous period of oppression,
some of the tribes were like, we are not going to be put in chains.
We are not going to be set on fire.
And they became hyper weaponized, super defended, defensive,
and they moved back as far as they could into the forest.
And they became the uncontacted tribes.
And so now they speak a language that we don't really speak.
And my first experience with them was that I had heard that.
They would kill you.
So one of the guys I work with, he he's a he was a logger.
And in 2004, he was working as a mahogany logger.
And he's coming down the river
and he sent his friend and his friend's wife
ahead to go to the go to the side, get some firewood, start making breakfast
because they had this huge barge of mahogany.
So they're going very slowly down down the river.
And he sent them ahead to go make breakfast.
And so this guy's name is Victor.
And as Victor is coming down the river, he's just chilling.
What he doesn't know is that this is what happened.
They go ahead, they reach the beach
and they're like, all right, let's get some firewood.
They go up onto the beach
and all of a sudden they hear the war cry from the uncontacted tribe.
Arrows start falling six foot long arrows.
What we think of is spears, they're shooting.
This guy gets hit through the thigh and through the front of his leg.
And so his leg is locked.
He goes down, he tells his wife, he goes, just keep running, run for it.
She runs because they're coming.
They're like running now.
There's a bunch of red, purple, black, yellow people
painted all different colors, running out of the jungle, screaming.
She jumps into the water, swims for her life.
The last thing she saw was them coming down on him
and just cutting him to pieces.
When my friend came around the bend,
he said there was blood all over the beach.
They had removed his testicles.
I think they took one of his arms.
They'd opened up his stomach
because they wanted to know what he was eating, because to them, we're foreign.
They're like, what are these people surviving on?
They're so far, you know, they have these flying things
and they come by in these loud boats and they don't understand.
So they got the story when they kept going down river
and they found the woman and she was just holding onto a stick
and she was weeping. Of course, she was super messed up after what happened to her husband.
But there was that massacre on the beach and that was just in 2004.
This August, this August, this brutal pictures were going around,
you know, the WhatsApp news network in the region.
Some loggers had gone to the wrong beach, man,
and the tribes had showed up.
And what the tribes do is when they surround you
and they don't want to speak in human terms, they start using animal calls.
They start using monkey calls and bird calls to communicate with each other
so that the the people that they're tracking won't know.
And so they got and then so they got to get around these people
and they start using that type of thing.
And so these guys got scared and they started firing off their guns.
Well, as soon as they fired off their guns, the tribe took that as aggression.
And then somebody found them a few days later
when the bodies were all bloated and disgusting and had been picked apart by vultures.
But it was just like you will be massacred, absolutely massacred.
And so the scariest thing I ever saw in the jungle was them.
Wow. So you actually had an encounter with them.
I had a horrible encounter with them.
It was right around the time JJ had.
JJ had kept telling me that there were these places in the jungle
that like no one goes that you could keep going past a certain point.
And then like, you know, there'd be like rocks where the boats can't go.
And then and then pass that.
Well, what's past that?
And he's like, well, it keeps going.
It's like a stream, but it's shallow, but nobody goes there.
And I was like, this is what I was born to do.
So there's a company based out of Colorado called I'll pack up pack rafts
and they make these little rafts that that that roll down into like the size of a tent.
So I got a pack raft, put my paddles on the outside of my bag,
put like 10 days worth of like nuts and high calorie dry foods in my bag.
I had a journal.
I had like a little cannon power shot at the time.
And I went and I went up with with poachers,
because those are the only people that were going deep into the forest.
And I get dropped on the side of a river.
And I said, so I said, just so you guys.
So what spot is this?
And they were like, not the end of November.
They're like, they don't have a name.
And then I was like, all right, well, goodbye.
And they were like, no, you want us to leave you here?
And they kept they kept they were like, no, no, you're going to die.
They're like, you're going to die.
And I was like, you don't get it.
I'm like, I'm like an outdoors person.
I got this. Just just leave me here.
This is what I want.
Um, and I really almost like into the wild did myself.
Um, but I, I, I kept walking past the point where boats could go on the river.
So now I'm in literally past the edge of human presence on our planet.
I'm in the wildest place on earth in the rainforest,
where like the canopy meets over the river.
And like the monkeys don't know what a human is.
So the wildlife will like come down and look at you like it's the Galapagos.
They're like, they're like, what's that?
They've never seen a human before.
And I'm just walking around and I'm camping at night and I'm journaling
and I'm having this amazing adventure.
And then this right around the eight day mark,
the river was getting pretty narrow and I came to a bend in the river.
And I see smoke coming up off the opposite side and like, man, my heart just dropped.
And I said, if I don't go see what this is, I'm never going to forgive myself.
And so I went ahead just a little bit and like as soon as I rounded the bend,
there was like three or four of them and they had their arrows out already.
And they were like, they were also sort of peeking around the bend to see like
because they knew that I was coming.
They sent something was there.
They sent something was there.
And it was just they had had a little little campfire going on the beach
and they had like a few of their little huts up.
They make these little palm shelters, but they were making dead eye contact with me.
Oh, they saw you. Oh, they knew I was there.
They had their arrows in their in their bows already.
And they were like looking over like this.
And I saw one say something to the other one.
I mean, it was a good football field away.
But it was like, they were like, there it is.
And for the first time in my life, I was potentially being hunted
by other humans that didn't speak a language that I can speak.
You can't even beg for mercy.
And so I just ran down river full speed, full speed, jumped in the river, floated.
But it wasn't deep enough.
It wasn't deep enough for me to float down the river.
So I got out, opened my pack, they have like an inflation bag.
I like inflated this thing in three minutes, gotten the pack,
I threw my backpack on my lap and just started going.
And I went for three days without stopping.
And the reason I did that was because even when I stopped at night,
I mean, I was literally kayaking past crocodiles in the river.
I mean, there was fish jumping up out of the river into my boat.
I was actually some of the times I didn't even need to go fishing
because there was fish at night, you scare the fish, they just jump into your boat.
But I there was one point where I set up my tent
and I was like, I have to get some sleep.
It's been 48 hours with no sleep.
I'm starving. I'm freaking out.
And I like laid down, fell asleep.
The first dream I had was that they were around me
and I heard all these animal noises.
And then all of a sudden they started stabbing through the tent.
And it was like it was more traumatic to be asleep
than it was to just keep running.
And so it took me a week to get out.
But it was like seeing that and knowing the stories
from from some of the toughest guys that I know who've like lost loved ones.
One of my rangers now, one of my rangers has been shot in the head.
He was trying to give them bananas.
He saw them somewhere and he tried to push a canoe across the river.
And as he's pushing this canoe and he's like here, have some bananas.
And he's like trying to show like, I don't mean any harm.
I'm OK. And they just went fire an arrow at his head.
And so he sees the arrow, six foot arrow coming in his head.
And he moves to the side and it scraped him from his temple
all the way to the back of his head.
It opened him to the skull. Oh, my God.
And he was he's OK.
And he's he's a he's a hard ass man.
He works for me now. He's Ignacio.
And but like he he's he's also very scared of them.
So it's like and you can't you can't reason with them.
You can't be like, guys, it's OK, it's OK.
No, they don't speak our language.
And they believe that we are like literally demons that are trying to.
Yeah, they believe that we must be passed down because of the Spaniards.
They came down.
It must be just a tale that they passed down and they teach their young.
And they teach the young that the outside world is is going to kill you.
So kill them first if you want to survive.
I'm sure you've heard of the North Sentinel Island.
The Uncontact, Uncontact to try with the guy who recently went.
You hear about that, that guy went recently and he was like,
if you guys heard about Jesus and they just stuck an hour.
Oh, yes. Yes. Yes.
The missionary guy that went.
That meant we feel all warm inside.
So that there's a crazy fucking story about that,
about a British guy who went down there.
Austin, I sent you the link yesterday.
You can pull it up.
There's all he did this whole Twitter that Twitter thread.
Um, about there was this British researcher who went down there.
This is a, yeah, a portman.
He went down there in 1880 to 1900s to he was some sort of like pervert.
And he was doing some weird perverted study on like the kids,
like measuring their dicks and shit.
And, um, he was like taking these weird photos of them.
And, uh, like an old couple died because I guess they caught some sort of disease
that he had and they didn't have the immunity built up.
Yes. That's a major concern.
Even with the tribes in the Amazon, our common rhino virus, a cold,
could wipe out like a whole tribe.
It's happened. Yeah. Yeah.
And, um, eventually they ended up just murdering this guy
because he was just fucking with them.
And they, and that's the reason that they have been so hostile
to outsiders ever since then.
Well, I mean, can you blame them?
Right. No, you can't blame them.
You can't blame them.
And they've been there for like, I think it's like 60,000 years.
They descended from Africa like 60,000 years ago, and they're still fucking there.
Yeah. No. And I mean, if that's what they want to do, let them keep doing it.
I don't understand why people have to go mess with these people.
And notice, notice the people who go mess with these people.
It's always some missionary.
Mm hmm. It's always some missionary.
Right. And in Mother of God, in my book, I, I, it's not my story,
but I tell the story of, uh, there are some missionaries.
And I think it was in Ecuador where they, they went and they took a plane
and they landed in the Amazon, really remote Amazon.
And they, I love this story.
They, they, they landed to this remote tribe and they, they got out on the beach
and the tribe was like, wow, you people came out of a flying bird.
And the people were like, yeah, nobody could talk.
So it was all like hand gestures.
And they were like, try on a t-shirt.
And they like, it was pretty friendly.
They even took the chief of the tribe up in the plane and they did it, did it round
and brought them back down, which like, you might, that might like hurt
someone's brain if they've never seen a plane before.
And then they said, we're going to come back though.
We're going to come back and just wait.
Okay. So they went back and they have the journal entry of one of the missionaries.
And he's gone, I just hate that we're spending another Christmas when,
when these poor people won't know about Jesus Christ and the Lord and savior
and blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's like really keeping them awake at night.
So anyway, they go back and I think there's five of them and they land the
plane, same beach and they find these people again.
And the tribe is like, Hey, so look, we, we talked about it.
And the missionaries like, well, hold on, hold on.
We have like cotton candy and we have photos from back home.
Like here's our family and the tribes take one, look at it.
They look at the photo and they go, wait a second, I see human faces.
There's nothing behind this.
And the chief goes, guys, it's black magic, kill everybody.
And the tribe fucking murders all of them right there.
And so when the missionaries didn't come back, like a week later, they sent
out a rescue mission and there's just dead people all over the beach.
And years later, like a decade later when this tribe eventually was taught Spanish
and they were sort of brought, you know, roads reach them.
And of course, whenever roads go into a rainforest, everybody gets domesticated.
Yeah.
But they were able to interview the same tribe people.
No way.
And they said, what were you thinking?
And they said, how the hell were we supposed to know?
They said, you showed us a picture.
So we never saw a picture before.
They said they were flying around in a metal thing and showing us pictures.
They said, we just assumed that they were devil.
So we killed them just to be safe.
They said, we were a little spooked.
That's fucking insane.
And it was like a totally like natural move for them.
They were just like, you know, these people seem a little too friendly.
Yeah.
I think on that thread I was talking about in like 2006, a cargo ship ran
aground right on the edge of the island.
And they they could see after like a day or so, part of the tribe started coming
out from the forest and they were on the beach building boats trying to come out.
So they had to call in and evacuate a helicopter to come evacuate them.
And the ship is still there.
If you go on Google Maps, you can see the skeleton of the ship still there.
And then in 2014, they went back there again.
Another group of people went back there from, I think it's off the coast of like
of like India, I think maybe.
And they went back.
Austin, try to find a video of them giving coconuts to the tribe on North
Sentinel Island. Stop.
They pulled up in a fucking boat and they're right there.
And all these guys are just right there.
Like they're taking the coconuts from them.
This was like a couple of years ago and like the women and the children and
then the guys and they have, you can see they have a couple of them had these
big metal knives on their waists.
Yeah, this is it.
And they say that they got the only way they have the metal is from that
ship that ran aground in 2006.
Play it.
Skip, like halfway through.
Oh, we just took her out.
Yeah, you took out the pregnant lady.
Oh, this is wild.
I've never seen this to that metal to the metal dagger.
Well, that's when the Amazon, when they come, whenever they come and they
raid, they raid the villages sometimes and they steal our machetes.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
They want metal.
They don't have it.
Isn't that crazy?
They don't have metal.
Yeah, it's fucking insane.
They missed out on the wheel.
They missed out on the spoon, the knife.
That is not how to use that.
What?
Dude, these guys are so lucky that they didn't get massacred.
And there's, there's one point where some of the guys start doing like the,
these these tribe guys start.
Watch, watch what this guy does right here.
It's like he's doing some sort of like it seems like a get the fuck out of here type thing.
Wow, look at that.
Look at that.
He's like, yep, grab that coconut.
It's pretty crazy that they just decided to go back and just pull right up
like that.
Yeah, to me, I wouldn't be with him.
I wouldn't be with an arrow range of no problem.
You're way too close.
I mean, that's like, oh, my God, it's so insane to think that people like that
still exist on this earth.
Yeah.
And then, you know, it's funny because people like romanticize it.
They're like, oh, they're the last like truly free people.
They don't have like politics or religion.
And it's like, yeah, they just have like intertribal war and like, you know,
organized rape and like probably believe a million false things.
I've talked to science anthropologists who have like talked about how like some
entire cultures have had just like wrong ideas.
There's a there was a tribe in New Guinea that believed that any sickness
that happened was from black magic from from neighboring tribes.
And so like these people were in constant terror that the other tribes
were going to put a curse on them.
And like when the missionaries went, these people were living in so much fear.
And it was like they had to explain to these people that like basically
the whole fundamental fabric of your reality is false.
So like we have to start over again.
And it's like, dude, that sucks.
You were like living on an island, completely misunderstanding life.
Yeah, like that's that's rough.
Yeah.
But if a comment were to hit and take out the take out our population,
they would be the ones to survive.
Oh, yeah, because they'd be fine.
They would be the only one.
Exactly what to do that.
And like the two like doomsday preppers somewhere in like fucking Utah would be
like, yeah, the billionaires with the giant underground doomsday.
Yeah, it must be like it must be like if we must be to them, like what aliens are to us.
Pretty much or close.
Pretty much.
We live completely outside of their culture.
We live outside of their contact.
They do that.
We they don't understand us.
Anything they get from us is like relics.
And so when they go, OK, so I mean, I've done this, you know, you go out in the forest
and you say, OK, I'm going to survive a picture of somebody said like, make a bagel.
It's it's funny, but it's like, holy shit.
It's like, well, I got it first.
I got to get some space.
I got to cut down a tree.
How are you going to cut down a tree?
Oh, shit, I need a I need a I need an axe.
It's all right. Well, you got to get some metal and say, OK.
So even if you get a field and then you, you know, so then you got to get barley.
And it's like, well, oh, wait, hold on.
That doesn't exist until humans like breed it and engineer it to be more productive.
And it's like, it's this stuff is so our society is so complex.
And they're literally living on a basis of like hunter gatherer.
We're like, they are self-sufficient individuals.
And that's what makes it that like that, that they could they be fine.
Like, I'm going to go catch a fish.
So you mentioned we mentioned earlier, and I talked to you yesterday about the
it's fascinating to me how the soil in the Amazon is sterile
and completely infertile if there's so much vegetation.
How is it possible it's so it's so infertile?
And then I want to talk to you too about the terra preta stuff.
That like the what do you know about that manmade terra preta soil?
Yeah. Well, the soil, first of all, the Amazon used to be joined to the Congo.
OK, all right.
So there used to be they used to be used to flow the opposite direction, the Amazon.
And then when they split, because the Congo River is flowing,
let's see, what is it east to west?
And so the Amazon also would be flowing east to west.
And then when the continent split, those two things were divided.
And then South America hit up against the Nazca plate,
which is what sent the mountains up.
And they both drain into the Atlantic.
And now they both drain into the Atlantic.
So the Amazon actually reversed directions.
But as that was happening for a long time, it was this giant inland sea.
And so it was still salt water, which is why we still have stingrays, manatees,
the certain like relics that have adapted to fresh water life
after being there for millions of years as this transition was taking place.
But you're basically talking about like an ocean floor in a lot of cases.
And so that's what the Amazon is growing on. OK. And so and then
and then like in our region, it's clay.
And so like when you're digging through this clay,
you stick a shovel through this thing.
And it is, I mean, think of a lump of clay,
like what you would make a sculpture out of.
Like when you've ever seen people take, take, take that wire
and you can cut straight through the clay with it.
And it's just like this homogenous gray mass.
Well, in the Amazon, it's red.
But it's like there's no space in there.
There's no there's no nutrients. There's no soil.
It's just clay dense, just dense.
And so the trees, when you see the rainforest trees,
they have these roots that spread out.
It's almost like the base of a rocket ship.
And so they're standing there, think like a chess piece.
It's just a big, fat bottom sitting at the bottom of these giant, giant ancient trees.
And the reason that they have that rainforest tree look is because instead
of sending roots down, they send roots out to stabilize.
Oh, shit, really?
So if you see a tree fall over on the side of the river, like even like a,
you know, 170 foot tall tree, it's only going to have like a four foot
taproot that goes into the ground. It's tiny. No way.
Nothing. Yeah. I had no idea.
And so all of the nutrients is kept in the very, very, very, very topsoil.
So all the falling leaves, all the branches, all the animal carcasses,
all that nutrients is coming from what's alive.
And that's all being cycled out so quickly
because a fungal mycelium is breaking everything down.
If it wasn't for fungus, the Amazon would bury itself in leaves and cease to exist.
And then the rains are constantly washing those leaves into tributaries,
which is going into the water, which is going into the rivers.
And then washing out into the Atlantic, where phytoplankton are hitting
all of that biotic matter and releasing it into the atmosphere.
And so like the nutrients of the Amazon is all like, it's a very like
temporary thing. It's all just being held by the existing life,
which is why when you cut stuff down and burn it, it's like a machine.
It's like a machine. It's like a constantly turning death machine.
It's been called the greatest natural battlefield on earth
because everything is broken down so quickly from the biggest tree
to the termites to a jaguar to us.
Everything in the Amazon is in like the process of being recycled.
Like like life is a momentary stasis compared to the constant turning of death in the Amazon.
It's just you really get a sense of it when you see an animal die
in the Amazon, the body is like decomposed by the next day.
Wow. I think it's gone.
Like if you ever want to murder somebody, the Amazon is a place to do it.
You just like whack them over the back of the head, they'll be gone.
The soil and the plants and everything just eats it.
Yeah.
You have dung beetles coming in and leaf cutter ants and vultures
and everything tears it apart.
And it's just like sort of if you do like a time lapse of it,
you'll see it like swell up and then like go down.
And then the bones will get carried off by scavengers and just get spread out.
And then really.
And then as soon as it rains, the bones get wet and then more fungus.
That fungus gets through everything.
That fungus will break down a mahogany tree.
None of those uncontacted tribes are cannibals, right?
Not that we know of.
I've never heard of anything like that.
And there's been a few people in the region.
It's it's kind of like one of those things we don't really talk about.
But there's a couple people scattered through the remote villages that we can contact.
We're like, there's one guy, I think, that got washed down river
where he was like a child with the uncontacted tribes.
And now he lives and speaks Spanish and like lives with one of the other communities.
And I like I would never share where the location of that is.
But it's like he's he's far from into.
Talking about it.
But he he sort of knows both worlds.
Oh, wow. Yeah.
And so like someone like that would have said if they were if they were cannibals.
But I don't think they are.
Now, what is this terra preta manmade soil that I'm hearing all everything, all that.
They heard that they found it in multiple different spots.
And it's been studied and it's like super fertile.
Yeah. And it was there's evidence that it's manmade.
Yeah, I think it was Oriana, who was the first person to descend the Amazon,
which is a crazy story because the Spanish came in through like Lima over the Andes.
And then he like literally like built a boat,
floated down 4000 kilometers across the entire Amazon base
and had these incredible adventures.
He's the reason he's the guy who told all the stories
about all the crazy civilizations in the Amazon, right?
And then they went back and everything was gone.
Like the guy was fucking lying.
Yeah. And also in terms of like survival,
like however many guys they started with and ended with.
But this dude survived that expedition,
got to the mouth of the Amazon, navigated by the stars and said,
I know where we are.
And if we could build a ship, we could get back to Spain and did that.
It's one of the most psychotically amazing stories I've ever heard.
And he's the reason that the Amazon River is called the Amazon River.
Oh, really? There was apparently there was a tribe
that was very female dominant and he was hearkening back to the
I think it's a Greek myth of the Amazon, which is a tribe of women who shoot arrows
and actually are one breasted women so that they can draw their bow string back.
Oh, wow.
But that's where that name comes from, the Amazon forest.
OK, I was thinking of a story of a Spanish explorer
who went through the Amazon, like the 1500s, and then he reported seeing
like tons of tribes, but then they went back and like 200 years.
Two hundred years later, they they went back looking for everybody
and it was all gone because they had brought smallpox through and killed everybody.
Yeah. So this is the same guy.
Named after is the guy who is responsible for murdering everybody in there with smallpox.
His reports of the Amazon led to it generally being referred to as the Amazon
Forest, the forest of the Amazon. OK, gotcha.
OK, he was Oriana, I believe, was his name.
I think it was like Francisco de Oriana. Yes, that's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But yeah, he had stories of civilizations that had huge
sectioned off areas of the river where they were cultivating turtles,
the giant Amazonian turtles, and they were living off of that as their primary protein.
That means all kind of this stuff's written down.
These people were more they were more literate than we are.
Wow. I mean, the stuff that you read these guys's journals.
Incredible. I mean, you have the journals of Pizarro, the day he touched down in Peru,
where he's like he's like chuckling to himself and he's going,
this is going to be a really easy conquistador journey.
He's like, this one's going to be good.
Like and at that point, he was like, I know six other guys that are like rich
conquistadors, he's like, I got these people because the Peruvians came out
and they're like, here's textiles and gifts and here's some cocoa leaves.
And they're like, welcome, welcome.
And he was like, you people are fucking idiots.
And then they just got ready to kill everybody.
Like it's in his journal. It's absolutely awful.
He like thought it was funny.
He's like, I can't wait to write home and start this like.
Jesus. Yes.
No, they were they were on a whole different level.
So the Terra Prada stuff, though,
is part of a conversation right now that I think is a huge misinformation thing.
And really? Yes.
Because because Graham Hancock, his whole theory on all this.
Yeah. These guys see what happens is you come out with a controversial theory.
All right. You say, we're living in a simulation.
I can prove it. And then everyone goes, we are.
And then everyone clicks on it.
This guy comes out and goes, the Amazon rainforest is a manmade thing.
I go, what?
I was like, let me listen to this.
Terra Prada, we found, you know, geoglyphs or we found, you know,
human evidence of human civilizations in the in the Amazon rainforest.
And it's like of the area of the Amazon rainforest,
if you actually look at the scientific literature of what these archaeologists found,
it's like point zero three percent of the actual land mass of the Amazon shows
signs of some form of Terra Prada that they believe was influenced by humans.
And so then what happens is this dude goes on podcasts and writes books
and does lectures where he goes, we've been thinking all wrong about the Amazon
because he wants his big, you know, he wants to like drop the big bomb.
He goes, we've been thinking about it all wrong.
And then I hear him on Rogan going, the Amazon is actually a manmade garden.
They've actually engineered a lot of the forest.
And I'm listening to this, ready to fucking flip the tape.
What the fuck are you talking about?
And I love what you said.
He's going to his life is like the Da Vinci code.
Oh, my God, he's he's literally he is a fucking child playing
he's playing a game where he's like an explorer.
Like he thinks he's like Hiram Bigham and he's going to go find Machu Picchu or something.
The problem with his story is that it's a dangerous story
because it changes the narrative and it changes how we view the future.
OK, so so he's on there going, well, yeah, you know,
you know, there's this evidence all over the Amazon.
Now, if you take a football field, you take a handful of quarters
and you throw it and there's quarters all over the field.
But are is that handful of quarters on this whole football field?
Does that mean that the you know, what does that mean?
You know what I mean? It's a very, very small percentage.
And so, yes, of course, they were over the course of history.
There was hundreds of thousands of people right now.
There's just I think there's like 20 million people that live in the Amazon.
Maybe more. It's probably more like 30 million people.
Really? Yeah.
There's indigenous communities all over the Amazon rainforest.
There's cities, there's Manaus, there's Iquitos, there's Puerto Maldonado.
There's there's plenty of people living in.
That's why people go, is it too dangerous to go to the Amazon rainforest?
I'm like, bro, I know babies in the Amazon rainforest.
Like you can go grown as human.
But yeah, I was listening to him and they're going, oh, yeah.
And they're literally the evidence that they're using
to prove their point was absolutely false.
And he's going, yeah, we see domesticated species like Brazil nut trees.
OK, we're going to have a conversation about what domesticated means.
All right. Domesticated is like a golden retriever.
A wolf is a wild species.
And then we bred wolves down and mixed them with things.
And we came up with a golden retriever, a cow.
You know, we came up with a cow.
We took a wild species and we made it produce more milk and then, you know,
a chicken, we made it so that they produce eggs every day.
Those are domesticated species, species that we have bred to be productive for us.
Same with bananas, same with apples, all these things.
We they come from a root source plant that ancient civilizations
bred to be more productive.
Fine. You know, I once heard someone say about Asian elephants.
They went, oh, you know, these are domesticated elephants.
No, no, no, no, these are captive elephants.
This is a wild animal that is being that has been beaten
until it's been kept in a temple or a cage or whatever else.
But that does not mean it's domesticated.
And so this guy was going on about like, yeah, like you see higher
concentrations of domesticated Brazil nut trees around these areas
with with terrapera, Brazil nut trees are not domesticated species.
Brazil nut trees are one of the pillars of the natural Amazon rainforest.
And what people could have done was they could have taken the nuts
just like we could take acorns from an oak tree
and we could plant them around our farm if we want oak trees.
But they're not domesticated.
Why does he think they're domesticated?
I don't know.
Probably the same reason he thinks he's Indiana fucking Jones.
And how do we know that they're not domesticated?
You can look it up.
They're not. It's a wild species.
And they're they're so intricately.
Austin, that's your cue.
They're so intricately woven into the ecology of the Amazon,
you can't actually have productive Brazil nut trees without primary forest.
Listen to this.
So if you have a four hundred year old Brazil nut tree
and they're like one of the emergent giant pillars of the forest,
they depend on a species of orchid bee to pollinate their flowers.
And before that pollination happens between the male and female trees,
they will not produce the Brazil nuts.
And then once they produce the Brazil nuts,
those nuts actually fall from the canopy one hundred and sixty feet up,
or we can't get them to the ground.
And then the only animal in the rainforest
that has teeth strong enough to make it through this hard, nutty shell
of a Brazil nut is something called an agouti.
And it's a rodent. It's a big ass rodent.
I think it's like a shrew.
It looks like it looks like a like a more like a beaver family type of thing.
OK, yeah.
And they they open them and they bury them just like squirrels do.
They bury over and then Brazil nut trees.
Let's see what. Oh, Wikipedia is trustworthy.
The Brazil nut is a South American tree
in the family of I'm not even going to try to say that.
Lee Sidethiki, the fruit and its nut shell containing the edible Brazil nut
are relatively large. Well, keep going down.
Keep going.
Find something about where they're from and how they were made.
From made.
Oh, Jesus.
But like so the thing about Graham is I don't think I think he just wants.
He's just advocating for the Amazon to be studied, right?
He's not advocating for like he he said that
he thinks that money needs to be put into more Lidar.
Yes. Penetrating Lidar to survey Lidar surveys on the Amazon,
because right now I think it's only been like a very,
very small percent of the Amazon has been surveyed by Lidar, right?
I think that that's a great idea and I fully support that.
The problem is that when when when when you listen to these interviews,
when you listen to what is extrapolated from someone, he says, you again,
I'm going from the interviews that I've heard where you hear them go, OK,
there's a lot more human civilization in the Amazon than you think.
And they were engineering the forest.
And then you literally hear people going, so wait, so the forest was engineered
by people and they go, yeah, the Amazon was actually a garden.
And you can look this up on Smithsonian where they go, yeah,
they produced a paper that said this as a hypothesis.
And then they're like, but more realistically,
there's small settlements throughout the Amazon that correspond
with the ancient civilizations and the Amazon's the Amazon.
And so what he's doing is then when people co and they say,
well, if the Amazon is a human made thing, well, then as we as we decide
the fate of the Amazon, what do we want it to look like?
And it very quickly becomes this very dangerous thing
where it's if it's not wild anymore, well, then it's just something else
that we can manipulate.
And the the Amazon is such an intensely complicated web of life
that this is not something that we actually understand yet.
So to to to to if you have a guy like Bolsonaro who's going, oh, look,
look, the research says, you know, this was man made to begin with.
So we better start chopping it up and turning it into soy farms.
It's like these are dangerous extrapolations that are being made
from that assertion that there's that the Amazon is a is a cultivated garden.
Also, I can't see there's a giant ad in front of the article.
The supposedly pristine untouched Amazon rainforest was actually shaped by
human like this, this is thousands of years.
Native people played a strong role in molding the ecology of this vast wilderness.
How does 2017 keep going down?
This is the Smithsonian.
OK, so yeah, this is a good article.
You read through the whole article and then at the end, then all of a sudden
they bring it back to reality. There you go.
All right. So here's this other expert, Peperno, also cautions, drawing
direct conclusions conclusions from the tree data.
She points to the fact that some scientists once thought that the Mayan
civilization of Central America heavily cult cultivated the breadnut tree
based on larger than expected numbers of them often found in the Mayan ruins.
However, later research found that the breadnut trees also can be spread
widely by bats and that the trees may have started growing around ruins
to take advantage of the limestone that they provide in nearby soil.
Peperno hopes to see more work done finding an island.
It's basically this they bring in this expert who actually says, you know what,
this is just a brand new hypothesis and it doesn't mean shit.
Right. So what they're doing here is they're using this headline to hook you.
Right. Yeah. Go to that last paragraph.
The future for future research, Pippin arrow hopes to see more work done,
finding and analyzing the remains of plants from prehistoric eras,
such as charcoal and mineral mineralized
fire, phytoliths and charcoal.
These are the proxies that need to be relied on.
Pippin arrow says what she's saying is politely that right.
Yeah. Well, I mean, the crazy thing is if there was all those cities there
when that first guy went through the Amazon, the first Spanish guy explored
through there and then they were gone 200 years later, the Amazon clearly.
Eight like it ate up everything like the growth grew over everything.
So there's there's if there was a way to fund
more lidar surveys of the Amazon or cover it and see all the shit.
So exciting that is under there.
It would be fucking incredible.
We learned so much about the history of our species. 100 percent.
And there's actually I I know a guy who who knows
where there's there's there's stuff under the canopy that that that we don't
know about the scientific we and the guys on the ground know about.
Like what?
Like entire ruins that really well, they found pyramids there, right?
Yeah, there's there's all kinds of stuff down there.
I know there's pyramids like crazy geometric shapes they found.
Yep. Yep. And I mean, and but again, again, it's just like, you know,
the thing is not to to blow that into that's fine.
And saying that we that there's more
human sites than we thought, like even like pottery.
Like we found if you go to like a certain bend in the river,
like usually when the interesting thing with the jungle or with any wilderness
is that there's sort of like natural law, like you stop at certain points.
Like there's like certain points in a river where it's just like a good port.
It's a good place to stop your boat.
And it's like, you're usually going to find somewhere near there,
like some pottery remains or something.
Because then some ancient civilization probably also thought it was a good port.
And so like, yeah, there's 100 percent.
There was there was millions of people that have existed in the Amazon over time.
But the danger is, is that then they jump this to
the Amazon was created by humans, which is fucking moronic.
Yeah, that I mean, that statement just seems dumb.
It's absolutely stupid.
And how would people use that?
Like people are using that to then they make articles like this.
And then how many people read to the last paragraph, right?
How many people just click on that article and look, I saw it.
It says it. The Amazon was actually shaped by humans.
And that is so dangerous because the ecology there is so intricately intertwined with each with it.
I mean, these are we're just starting to scratch the surface of this of this food chain.
Like, you know, if you ever you ever heard of the thing with the the wolves
in Yellowstone about where they the wolves have been absent from Yellowstone
for 100 years, and then they brought back the wolves into Yellowstone.
And all of a sudden, they saw all these ecological things fall into place.
Like, because the deer weren't overgrazing the plants by the rivers,
they were moving quicker because they knew there was wolves around.
And so all of a sudden, the shorelines around the rivers were able to grow up,
which when there was floods meant that there was more roots and more more retention.
So the floods weren't as bad.
It also meant that because the deer weren't always harassing the plant life by the edges,
that little trees were able to grow up, which meant the beavers were able to use them.
So and so the wolves, the top down predator ecology truth is,
is that we needed wolves to keep balance in the ecosystem.
And it's something very simple, some something very similar with elephants.
It's like what elephants do for an ecosystem is so crucial.
But it's like, if we start changing these these these hard one, I mean,
how much how many years of research did it take to find out these things about the wolves?
You know, it took us exterminating wolves and then bringing them back for us to learn how crucial they are.
And then, you know, with the Amazon, we're just starting to learn about how the Brazil nut trees
and the rivers and the moisture cycle all all works together.
And it's like, then people go, oh, no, no, no, it's actually human made guys, you can pave it.
No, yeah, no, I can't let you can't.
I'm not going to be quiet for that one, just because somebody wants to get
like a fancy PhD and get some interviews, right, right, right.
No, I mean, it just sucks that there's not more research being done on it.
And there's not more archaeology being done down there.
And there's not more digging, you know, and the LIDAR surveys,
which I think those are really super expensive to do.
They are expensive to do because we're trying to get some LIDAR surveys in our region
because it would there's there's stuff out there.
There's stuff, you know, like I've been down there 17 years.
Like I have a number of sites that I would love to go do LIDAR over
because like we we we can just sort of this place is where we know that there's some evidence of stuff.
Or like we found pottery and it's like we could be sitting on a massive.
Could we find just some billionaire to just pay for some LIDAR?
I mean, I don't see why not.
There's fucking billionaires popping up all over the place.
And they spend money on way stupider things than that.
I mean, like penis rockets.
Like what? I see.
I miss a lot of stuff.
Like I've missed a lot of stuff.
Like I come out of the jungle and my friends will be like, yo,
did you hear about like this?
And I'll be like, what?
Or like, I'll see a meme and I'll like, I'll have to like text my friend.
I'll be like, what are they talking about?
You know, it'll be like a meme or something.
And the last one was like it was like Biden falling off a bicycle.
And I was like, what happened?
Oh, yeah. Okay.
And they were like, no, no, you've been in the jungle, man.
Like he was fine. It was a joke.
It passed. You missed it.
And I was like, OK, like I miss a lot of stuff.
But yeah, we we need to.
I came out of the jungle one time and someone was like,
you see, you see this guy fly fucking flying.
And I was like, you flew a dick rocket.
I was like, are you serious?
I was like, that really happened.
I think I missed that too.
Like, holy shit.
Yeah. Bezos's rocket could have been designed.
Oh, that could have been designed.
I see what you're saying.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I because sometimes I come out
and like my friends will almost mess with me and be like,
yo, this happened while you were gone.
I'll be like, what?
Is there a way like you bring a sat phone
with you everywhere when you got that?
Not anymore. No.
Not anymore.
Like, who are you going to call? Right.
All right.
So you get shot through the through the through the stomach
by an arrow.
Are you going to be like, hi, mom?
You know what I mean?
Like, there's no one to call.
There's no. What do you do?
Like, what do you do?
You try to survive. You get seriously injured.
It's real life.
Right. There's no there's no ambulance coming for you.
There's no there's no helicopter evac.
You know, when you do travel insurance, they sell you
or you have like two hundred fifty thousand dollars
of medivac or whatever else.
No, there's no one to come get you out there.
That's one of the fascinating things, too,
about some of these ancient tri or the ancient civilizations
that live down there.
Like, how long ago was ayahuasca like how many years ago
was the first the first ayahuasca concocted
because it takes two different plants
that are completely different.
Yeah. The bush that causes all the hallucinations.
You could eat the shit all day and you just get a stomach ache.
Yeah. But as soon as you mix it with this other plant, the vine.
Yeah. Yeah. The vine all of a sudden, the magic happened.
So how did they learn that so many fucking years ago?
There's a beautiful book by Wade Davis called One River.
And for anybody that's interested in this stuff,
you got to read One River.
It's like this giant, very difficult to read.
It's like biblical, but he's following the work
of Richard Evans Schultes, who is a Harvard ethno botanist
who went through the Amazon.
I think it was like in this, I want to say in like the 50s or the 60s.
But he started doing all these hallucinogenics in a research
capacity and trying to figure out and trying to really use a botanist.
But they were saying the statistical improbability of
even if you did trial and error over the course of thousands of years,
given that there's 15,000 species of trees.
And then how many species of vines and how many pieces.
I mean, you're talking the numbers are staggering.
It's like, fucking, you just got to hear like the interstellar music
start playing behind your head as you think about this.
Like and somehow they figured this out.
It's not like maple syrup.
Like the first person to burn a maple tree was like, oh, that's good.
Right. You know what I mean?
Like that's one step. We're good.
This is a complex chemical reaction that literally opens your mind to other worlds.
And for people that have done normal drugs, like mushrooms or LSD or something
like ayahuasca is a totally different thing.
And I've never done ayahuasca.
How is it different from mushrooms?
It's very different. It's I mean, I just I just feel like it's considered.
It's basically like DMT, right?
It's essentially the same thing.
It's yeah. I mean, I look, I had done mushrooms in college.
And, you know, like everybody else and you go for a walk and it's nice.
And I can kind of feel I can kind of like see music.
That's cool. And then like with the, you know, and now there's a lot of people
who are like, I talked about ayahuasca with someone recently and they go,
oh, I just did ayahuasca last week.
And I went, you went to the Amazon last week and they went to New York.
Yeah, I did it in the yoga studio in New York.
And I was like, I was like, OK, I go, I go back.
I tell my local guys that they laugh. They're like, yeah, OK.
The thing is it's it's literally from a vine and and then, you know,
you're you're mixing compounds in the jungle and boiling it down.
And these people live in the jungle and they go on a diet where they just drink
that to to and what they're doing is they're connecting deeply to
like the forest spirit, the truth between the trees.
And they're trying to absorb that to become shamans.
And they study for years for that for that privilege.
And it's not viewed as a drug.
It's not viewed as something that's like, you know, recreationally done.
It's viewed as something that's that's deeply medicinal
that opens up the spirit world.
And so when they hear about people doing it in a yoga studio, that's like, you know,
that's like that's like it's like someone in the military having somebody be
like, I did a tough motor once and it's like, OK, cool.
Like you ran in a circle like good for you.
But whatever you could compare it to,
it's like there's drugs and then there's ayahuasca.
Like I was unprepared.
I the first time I did ayahuasca, I like I had a notebook.
I had like an iPod.
I was like, I mean, music, you know, it's going to be cool.
I'm going to like write down my thoughts.
I had no idea, you know, the shaman comes in and we're sitting in a circle
and he lights a single candle, a single, two candles in the in the middle of the floor.
And then you're all sitting in a circle and things get real quiet.
And you just start you start noticing the sounds of the jungle.
And all of a sudden, you know, like when you're scared,
you just start noticing different stuff.
And all of a sudden you say, you know, I agree to do this.
OK, and you see the look on everyone else's face.
You see the local people who are going to do it with you.
And you see that they're they're not joking.
They're like getting ready.
Oh, God. And then he beckons to you and this guy is sitting there.
And, you know, the candles are in his eyes and he's got feathers off his head
and he's got monkey skulls around him.
And he goes, come, you kneel before him.
Takes a big drag of his of his cigarette.
And he blows medicinal herbs through his lungs onto the ayahuasca.
Then he gives it to you and he hands it to me.
And I was like, everything in me was screaming and saying, don't do this.
It was like, I was like, if I'm backing up, I'm backing up.
I don't want to do it, but you're too far in.
You can't do that in front of everybody.
And I was like, screw it.
I just kicked it back.
And then so you go and you sit down and I'm sitting there.
And then the next person goes and the next person goes and we're sitting in the circle.
And and I remember being like, oh, I think I got this.
I was like, I'm going to I'm going to be fine.
And then I like I remember I opened my notebook and it's all dark
and we're under a roof, but there's no walls.
And so the jungle is all around us.
And so you could hear and all of a sudden it started to rain lightly.
And I started to notice that the sounds I started to I started to like
try to wash off my hands that the sounds were coming through my fingertips.
And I started to I started to be very concerned with that the sounds had
gotten under my skin and the frogs and the crickets and the frogs and the crickets
and that throbbing of the jungle night.
And then the last thing I remember seeing was that I looked down at the floorboards
and it was like this, you know, it's just like and I remember seeing the molecules
of the wood as I as I got smaller and smaller and dematerialized
and fell through the table or the floor, the earth, everything
and down into like unconstructed universe.
And I was down there for a very long time.
And if I if I went into it, it would sound so ridiculous that it'd be stupid
to to retell it, but it's like you go down so deep that you leave your body.
You're in a different universe.
You're in like unconstructed dream space.
And and it was it was it was so intense that in
like at like four a.m. when I came back, I just remember being so scared.
And I'd been through so many different universes.
And I like the moment I realized I had a hand.
I was so thankful.
I like I like felt my hand on the board and I went I like was me.
I could remember my name.
I'd forgotten my name, all this stuff.
I mean, you just you're in you're in I mean, literally picture
like being a consciousness floating in space with the stars and the nebulous
and being able to swim.
It was wild.
And so I came back and then I looked for the shaman and I see this hammock
and and he's gone.
So as the sun comes up, we start looking for the shaman and we go, where is this guy?
And the guy's old.
He's like 85 years old.
It's one of the old guys who's got this face.
Like he's got like permanent, like whacked out to Nero face with like with like hair
that sticks up.
You can never tell if he's high or not.
And he's like, and we looked everywhere from he wasn't at camp.
And then we like later that day, we were like, I guess he left.
Like, I don't know.
And then like an hour later, somebody was crossing one of the streams and they
found him laying in the stream naked.
You know, like an E.T. at the end when he's not doing so good.
Yeah, yeah, the stream they found they found Don Ignacio in the stream naked.
And we wrapped him up and we brought him back and we said, what the fuck happened,
man?
And he goes, oh, that was the that was the biggest mistake of my life.
He goes, I overboiled it.
He goes, I've gotten sloppy in my old age and I let that brew of ayahuasca boil
too much.
He goes, that was I never thought I'd see things like that.
That was too strong.
He goes, I'm retiring.
And I was like, that's the batch of ayahuasca that you give me.
I was like, thanks for your first time.
My first, that was my first real ayahuasca trip.
And so the shaman was like, I retire.
And he retired until like next month.
But oh my gosh.
Yeah, he actually he was he was the old guard.
He trained the guys that do it now and COVID took him out.
No, we lost our old shaman in the village to to COVID.
Yeah, but it's like you so you lose this guy that knows in the last time
that he harvested an ayahuasca vine.
It was like it was like bigger than a dinner plate.
It was a vine thicker than a dinner plate.
So he knew where the ones grow that were like ancient.
And then, you know, the plants changed.
You know, the leaves on a young sycamore are different than the leaves on an old
sycamore when balsa trees are young, they have these giant umbrella leaves.
And as they grow up, the leaves get smaller, they change and like plants are complicated.
He knew how to find ayahuasca vines that no one else knew how to find.
And so like when he dies, you just hope that he's imparted that knowledge
to the next generation. Wow.
And there's also like a certain type of poison
that some of the indigenous communities there have developed.
Like it's called like carare or something like that.
And there's like, I heard there was like something like 11 or 12 different plants.
You have to combine to make that.
And it's like, I heard that like in order to get a monkey out of a tree,
like if they want to shoot a monkey, very quick, if you shoot it with an air
with no carare, it'll like seize its tail and it'll stay up in the canopy.
Is that true? Yeah.
And if you hit them with that, the reason they develop the carare poison
is so they go limp and they fall to the ground.
Yeah, the other crazy one that they have in our region is Barbasco,
which is it's a it's a root and you like wrap it in a cloth
and then you beat it with like a big, heavy stick and it gets it like pulpy.
So there's a lot of juice coming out of this thing now.
And then what you do is you go to a stream and you find like a pool in the stream
and you put a log across one side and then you may ideally you'd have
like a little waterfall or a trickle on the other side where the fish can't
easily get up and then you take this this package of beaten root that you have,
put it in there and then in like five minutes, all the fish that are in that
little pool, they'll just float up to the top.
And the craziest part is, is that they're only stunned.
So you can go through and be like, well, this is good for lunch.
This is good for lunch.
This is good for lunch.
Oh, we don't need any of these guys.
He's too small.
And then you take the stick away and let the water start flowing again.
And once the water flows, the Barbasco will leave
and then all the fish will start swimming again.
So you're not murdering all the fish.
That sounds like some black magic shit.
And it's like one of the most basic things.
Like I like I know young guys who know how to do it.
What? Yeah, that's that's not even a complicated one.
What is it called again?
Barbasco, you could like look at Barbasco.
Yeah, you could like look that one up.
So tell me what was the story of the the dude who got kidnapped by the gold miners?
I wanted to make sure you told that story.
All right, so I think we missed it.
The guy, this dude who we originally I had gone upriver with
a guy from National Geographic.
And the idea was that we wanted to find huge anacondas.
And so this gold miner who was the brother in law of the chef
that we work with down there.
And he had a year ago, he'd killed this huge anaconda.
I mean, I have a picture of his daughter holding this anaconda's head.
And it's like the size of an American football.
It's like it's just a huge anaconda head.
And so we went, we interviewed him in town.
That was the first step when we said, like, you know, why'd you kill this snake?
And he goes, well, I wanted to see it. Yeah.
You know, I just. Fair enough.
OK, so then we said, well, we want to come upriver and we want to see, like, you know,
you're saying there's other snakes like this is big anacondas.
He goes, yes, huge anacondas up there.
We go up.
This is where then we saw the military come down, blow up his gold mining thing.
And we said, look, you guys got to go, you got it.
You got to stop being gold miners.
You're going to get killed.
You're going to get arrested.
And so he goes, all right, I'm going to be a conservationist.
And so this evil gold miner, who everyone told us going up this river
that we were going to get killed, we become friends with this guy.
And he starts bringing ecotourism.
He starts trying to do research.
He starts trying to be a protector of the forest that didn't last long.
So I'm getting ready to go to the airport one day.
And my friends come rushing into my room and they go, he's gone.
I go, what do you mean he's gone?
The other gold miners didn't like that he flipped to being a protector of the forest.
And so these guys bust into his house at four in the morning with rifles against his head.
Apparently he was like having sex with his wife at a time.
They like jumped on him, hauled him outside.
They beat the shit out of him right there on the ground, put a gun against his head.
Now, so his wife and his kids are watching in the doorways of the little
shacks that they just built that he just spent a year building this like
the most basic ecotourism place you could possibly build.
They have a gun against his head and they go, say goodbye to your father.
The kids are screaming and the wife is trying to fight.
They knocked the wife down.
He goes, please don't kill me in front of my kids.
So they tie him up, they bring him on the boat.
And these guys are all messed up and whatever else, but he knows who they are.
He knows their voices.
He's worked with these guys before.
So they get him on the boat, they start going up river.
And at some point he told this story when when when when he got rescued,
he told me the story with so much enthusiasm that at some point they heard
the sound of a motor coming and they knew that he's the best boat driver.
And now so you have, they're trying to kill him, but he's going,
if that's them, the Navy coming, we're all done for.
He's like, so just let get my hands in front.
I'll drive the boat and then you guys can at least shoot at them.
And so they actually were like, okay, you drive, but we'll do whatever.
And so he just slammed the boat into a tree.
They went flying off.
He jumped into the river and then he ran off into the forest.
Apparently it changes about whether there even was a boat coming down river
or whether he just made them think there was.
But he was lost in the forest for three days before we found him.
And we, I mean, we hired, we hired like five different boats
to go up and down the river all day long looking for him.
And as far as we knew, it was very scary news to get
because we thought he was dead.
The last thing that his family saw was guys bust in guns against the head,
say goodbye to your father, and then he never came back.
And so days went by where we were sending boats up
and down the river looking for him.
And then miraculously, he shows up starving and freaked out
and clothing ripped and got reunited with his family.
But what, I mean, there's, I mean, they murder people.
Are my, our lawyer's father in the Amazon, he stood up to gold miners
and he was murdered.
Really? Yes.
There was a nun on the border with Brazil.
Sister Dorothy Stang, I think was her name.
She was working with the indigenous people, trying to work with them,
trying to protect the forest and the wildlife.
And then I think they shot her in the stomach.
And then when she was down, they capped her in the head.
I mean, like they just, you know, if you start going against these people,
there's a, there's a point where they will just say,
you're threatening our way of life and they will move the threat.
You're doing the same thing though.
Yeah. And I had, I made a post on Instagram about illegal gold mining
because it's actually, I went with this guy from ABC News, Matt Gutman.
Awesome guy.
This guy shows up with the news team.
He said he wanted to report on like the most authentic, you know,
the, the, the front lines in the Amazon.
And so we brought him out and we went into the gold mining areas.
We went into the logging areas.
We saw the Amazon fires, but we went to the.
So when he's run, you guys are like running by this burning area
and is like literally burning you as you're walking by.
That's the one.
That's the, we actually, like that day, I actually got scared
that like my skin came off because it fucking hurt.
It was that, that was crazy.
Um, but when we went to the gold mining area, it was funny
cause the guys pulled me aside and they went, hey, one of the guys
went, come here for a second.
He goes, you see how all those guys over there are looking at you?
And I said, yeah, they go, you're the, they go, they follow you on Instagram.
I went, cause you don't, you don't think you're in the middle of the Amazon.
You don't think that these people have this right.
And they're like, they know exactly who you are.
And they're like, you probably stop what you're doing.
And I was like, come on, get the fuck out of here.
I was like, go to, don't worry about it.
I was like, I mean, while they're all holding machine guns and like looking at me.
Um, and then, so literally the next thing, cause that was the day we were filming
there and so we filmed this desert in the Amazon rainforest and literally
in the most, in the most moist, biodiverse, beautiful pristine part of the Amazon.
There's now a 350 mile scar of sand.
You can look it up on Google earth and you can see this horrible scar across
the Amazon.
We went to the edge of that.
And so I posted about that the next day and a few days later, I was actually
walking down the street in the town where we were getting supplies to head back
out to the jungle and a motorcycle pulls up next to me and just was like the next
time we see you post about gold mining, you're going to regret it really.
And then he zooms off.
And I think it's see who it was because he has face covered.
He had a, you know, a motorcycle helmet on.
Um, so yeah, I mean, the threats come through and you just have to be ready
for whatever happens.
Are you armed?
Uh, most of the time we're not, but it's, it's usually in the city that you're
at the most because, you know, the thing is out in the, out in the jungle, um,
you usually don't need it because out in the, out in our region, you know, who's
there and who's not, um, it's kind of complicated though, because, you know, I
had a friend, uh, his name was also Paul, but his father moved deep into the jungle
when he, when they were, when they were, I think before they were born and they
moved like, you know, it was like four days deep into the jungle.
And he just wanted to live at the edge of the world and be free.
And he raised his two boys there and, and, and they, they had a whole life.
And I made friends with, with Paul, um, and Willie, um, when I was like,
probably like 22 and they were probably like 28 and 30 or so.
And they would teach me fishing and we go piranha fishing and we spent all these
days going out together and stuff.
And then, um, one day, uh, the dad needed to cut a tree that had fallen.
So he asked a logger if that, you know, who could, or a gold miner, uh,
if he could help them cut some wood.
And this guy noticed that they had a chainsaw that he wanted.
So he shot my friend in the back and took the chainsaw and that was it.
And because it's the Amazon, there's no consequences for that.
And because these guys were standing up to the loggers, they were standing
up to the miners and they were, they were, they were saying that we're not
going to allow our forests to be invaded.
So the first statement they made was shooting a 28 year old kid in the back.
Jesus Christ, man.
Um, so yeah, you have to be, you have to be a little careful out there.
It is, you know, cause you can't get the cops out there.
You can't get the cops out there.
Think about what that means.
So whatever happens, happens.
If me and you have a fight and well, this is a true story.
If two guys were fighting over Brazil nuts and the first guy went and I think
it was at, you know, the first guy shot the guy, the first guy, they were having
a fight over Brazil nut.
This is my Brazilian tree.
This is my Brazilian tree.
I get to harvest.
I get to harvest.
Where, where does the line go between our properties?
Who knows?
First guy shoots the other guy, takes off half his face, but he lives.
So that guy, his family fixes him up, everything else.
His brothers get together and go, fuck that.
They come back, take a few machetes and they hack this first guy to pieces.
The shot their brother.
So all of this eventually both families end up in court back in the nearest town.
And the judge goes, are any of you going to kill any of you?
And they're all like, uh, he was like, all right, we're good.
You're missing half a face and the other guy's dead.
He was like, what's there to do?
But this is the way it is in the Amazon.
It's like you're out past the country.
Was this Peru?
This is Peru.
Yeah.
And that's where my friends been shot in the head by the arrow.
That's where my friend got Paul got assassinated.
That's where our lawyer's father was assassinated for speaking out against the
lot, the lawyer got assassinated for speaking out against the gold miners.
Um, it's, it's, uh, the body count is high.
And then there's, there's articles, I think manga bay.com puts out articles every year
on like how many environmental defenders get killed across the Amazon each year.
And it's just like, it's just let the bodies hit the floor.
And it's just like, what is the biggest threat to the loggers and the gold miners though?
So like, what are they most afraid of that we're going to stop them from logging?
Are you a bigger threat to them or like the Navy and no, the Navy and stuff, but
there's regions of Peru where the, the Peruvian law, law enforcement won't go.
Put, put a little bit closer.
Um, yeah, there's places where the Peruvian law law enforcement won't go.
Oh, okay.
So like in that 350 mile scar, um, can you look up like Peruvian gold,
um, Madrid de Dios gold mining?
It's, it's terrifying.
And like the, the, the Peruvian armed forces went in there because they couldn't
send the police in because the police would just be massacred.
So finally they sent in like helicopters and Navy seals and all this shit.
And they sent in like full on, but even then they chased everybody out.
And then it's whack-a-mole.
They show up 10 miles that way.
And they do the same thing.
So it's like, it's just a constant struggle.
It's, it's crazy.
And as far as like the, the wood, like you're showing in that documentary,
there was like these giant trees on trailers, like these tree trunks that
are wider than this fucking room sitting on these giant trailers.
Where, where are the, where do they go from there?
Well, the thing is whether they're legal timber or whether they're illegal
timber, everything is corrupt.
So as soon as they come out of the forest.
So our forest, I said about the, it used to take us two days to get up to
the research station.
Yeah.
But then Brazil and China and the World Bank got together and they cut the
trans-Amazon highway across the Amazon.
And as soon as they cut the trans-Amazon highway across the Amazon, now you
have offshoot roads.
So you get one road and then offshoot roads, offshoot roads, offshoot roads.
They call that the fishbone effect because it ends up looking like a rib cage.
And then a road builds off a road, builds off a road.
And then you just start seeing all the, the, the, you can literally watch it
year by year.
The green starts turning to brown, starts turning to red.
And there, there you go.
That's what I'm talking about.
The edge of that.
So guarding the edges of that are men with machine guns, making sure that they
can continue to do that.
And what, what is that that we're looking at?
What is that?
That's where the Amazon rainforest used to be.
What is it now?
A pit of mercury polluted, absolute nothing that will take thousands of years to heal.
We're never going to get that back.
And that's in the Western Amazon.
That's in, that's in the most crucial part of the Amazon rainforest that this is
happening.
Lord, can you just scroll down a little bit to that picture on the lower
left, right there?
Look at that.
See that guy?
Like this is, this is what we see on.
You blow that up at all, Austin.
Right there you go.
What the fuck is going on there?
You think of what like pristine forest looks like with like towering trees and
butterflies and birds and jaguars.
And it's like, this is what they did.
So what is that guy with the, in the, in the, in the camo?
What is he doing?
He's proving law enforcement, proving Marines.
Okay.
And so like, I work with the guy on his knees.
I work with a bunch of guys like that.
I probably know that guy.
Um, I'm sure a lot of these guys are kids too.
A lot of them are kids and a lot of their, the funny thing is again, like when I
post this shit to social media, people will comment and they'll be like, these
evil loggers, they're doing it for greed or these evil miners.
And like they deserve to be like destroyed.
And I'm like, the first thing I have to go is like, hold up.
First of all, if you couldn't feed your family.
What would you do to save your family's life?
Cut down some trees day, a hundred percent you would.
Right.
Um, and so the other thing is that I hang out with these guys.
They're great guys.
Most, most of them are great guys.
Obviously there's the bad ones that, you know, when they all get around and they
start drinking and they start saying, well, this, this threatening our whole way
of life, you get that like one psycho vigilante is going to come.
But for the most part, these are good guys.
A lot of the guys on my team are ex-loggers who are now conservationists
patrolling the jungle as we speak.
A lot of JJ's brothers who taught me the jungle used to be
loggers in the 1990s during the mahogany boom.
Um, and now they work for jungle keepers or Tamindu expeditions.
And, you know, we, and they're like the best guys ever.
These are my family.
Like they're awesome.
Um, so yeah, it's just a matter of, you know, can you give these people a better life?
That's the, that's really the simplest answer.
Yeah.
That's, it's a, it's wild that you have the, that you're able to think
about it from their point of view, because yeah, I mean, if you were put
in their shoes and you had the decision to make between, let me cut
down a couple of square miles of rainforest or let me let my kid start
to death, I'm going to burn down the rainforest.
That's the thing at the end of the day, any one of us, if you use your
kid, your mother, whatever it is, whatever, whatever you care about, you
will chew through a human being's face to save that loved one.
Yeah.
And that's, and that's, and so it's, I'll fucking shoot an elephant in
the head to save my kid.
That's why I said to Ryan, like, like, you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, I agree with you though.
I agree with you.
Like, it's terrible.
It's terrible.
And it's like, we talked about this in, when he was in Iraq, like these, a
lot of these people that are out there fucking in these terrorist
organizations, in these terrorist groups or doing things that are evil to you.
Yeah.
Those people had other people murder their kids.
Exactly.
Well, and that's what turned them into what they are.
Like if, if somebody murders your kid, it's going to change you and you're
going to become a fucking murderer and you're going to look and it's all about
perspective.
I mean, look at the tip for tab between like Desert Storm 9 11, the next war
that we're just, we're just slapping each other back and forth.
And like how much of, you know, if you go to work and, or somebody, you
know, you and somebody yells at you in the morning and how much more likely
you're you to go then snap at somebody.
And it's like, I feel like as humans, we all pass on whatever we experience,
whatever trauma we experience.
And by the same token, when you meet awesome people that are just full of
integrity and sunlight and that are just like, they have your back and you're
with a good people, you're like, man, I'm going to, I'm going to do that too.
Like, I would never steal a cheat from those people because I would never do
that to them.
They never do that to me.
And it's like, whatever you get.
So the unfortunate thing is if people are, you know, born into a gang and,
you know, the cannibal warlords of Liberia, it's like, they experience like,
you know, eat that motherfuckers heart before he eats yours.
And it's like, that's what you create.
Yes.
And then, you know, I, I, you know, so I hope that everyone is, is lucky enough
to have those people in their life where it's like, they are just good.
Like I grew up like my parents, like my dad is like literally like, it's
actually, it's almost a, it's almost a burden how good of a person my dad is.
Like just like the nicest guy in the world.
Like I've never heard, it's like Atticus Finch.
Like I've like never heard the man lie.
Like it's just like, there's people who are just like, you go, oh,
you're brought your dad down to the rainforest.
Oh, tons of time.
Really?
Oh my God.
Yes.
Yes.
What does he think of everything you're doing?
Um, they think it's great.
They're really, I think they're really happy that I'm not in jail.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, the thing is, look, I was failing at a school and I was doing so bad.
They were so worried about me.
They probably thought I was going to go to jail.
And then like now I've written two books, um, uh, on December 11th, I'll be
speaking at the United Nations for the second time in my life.
And it's like, I was such a fuck up when I was a teenager that I think that the
fact that I haven't been trampled to death by elephants and the fact that I've
done, you know, something, protected something on earth, um, I think my
parents are just like, all right, fine.
You know, that's incredible, man.
Yeah.
What other than speaking to the United Nations?
Like what, what is that going to do?
Like what is it going to take to actually, to actually, there's so much
momentum, it feels like there is, there is, how, how could you possibly even
slow that down?
Where do you, where do you see any kind of hope or do you?
No, it's funny.
Cause when I started this, when I started out at like 18 years old, I think
I was very much like, there's no hope.
The world is dying.
It was like a very, it's almost, it almost feels good in a way to like
resign yourself to this, like it's all going.
Um, and I think that a lot of environmentalists is, a lot of
environmentalism is based on that, like this sort of like tragedy porn of
like, oh, the world is such a bad place, humans are a disease.
And it's like, well, what are, then I met the people that are actually at
the forefront of, of conservation and of science and of, of, of a realistic
future on earth.
And, uh, like literally the wizards who are out there, the people, you
don't know their names.
They, they, they work with large corporations.
They have PhDs from, from major, um, organ, like a major colleges and
they're doing things to protect huge tracks.
They're setting up national parks and they're working with companies to do
like, okay, well, if you have to drill here, how can we do that sustainably?
I work with a guy who, um, I work with a guy.
I've spoken to him a few times and I worship him.
But he, he, uh, his name is Adrian Forsythe and he works for the
Andes Amazon fund, but he tells, he told me this story and this is a guy
who, like when he talks, I mean, he's protected entire rivers, but like
when he talks, everyone shuts up and like moves closer and like notebooks
come out.
Um, but he told me this story about how there was a, there was a company that
wanted to drill inside of a national park and he knew that they were going
to get the permits because the corrupt government was going to give it to them.
So he went and had a meeting with them and he like took a proactive stance
and he's been, okay, look, if you guys are going to drill in there, here's
how we can do this in a way that it doesn't ruin the national park.
Because if you guys have a pipeline and a spill, it's going to, so he
suggested the safest possible technology.
And he said, the one thing we can't have is you, if you make a road to
bring your equipment in, well, then the local people can get in too.
And then we're going to have the offshoot roads and then the whole
national park is going to fall apart.
Roads are kryptonites or rainforests.
That's one, rainforest 101.
Roads death.
And so what he did was he said, look, we're going to use, we're going to
raise funding and we're going to bring all the equipment in by helicopter
into the center of this national park.
You're going to set up your rig right there.
There's going to be a line going out, but no one's even going to really
know about it and there's not going to be a road around it.
And so they did this and they drilled for a few years and then they
cleaned it up and they moved it out.
Oh, wow.
So everybody won.
And in fact, the people that worked on that project from the oil company ended
up supporting the conservation efforts because it was such a smooth process.
And so like instead of having that like basic, you know, internet Twitter
sort of response of being like, you're bad, we're good.
The environment's clean, you're dirty.
These guys are on a different, these guys are on a different level.
And I think that that's where we need to move moving forward.
And you know, that's where someone like Jane Goodall is working a lot with kids
because she knows like if kids care, you know what I mean?
They're going to grow up and become next policy makers.
And so what you need to do is instill that love of nature in them, you know,
50% of people across the world live in cities.
We have to find a way to rekindle their love of nature.
That's why Attenborough doc documentaries are so important.
But I do think that there's a lot of hope.
And that's why I tell that story about the bald eagles, the humpback whales.
A lot of things can bounce back and we've seen things bounce back.
And we're actually the way I look at it in terms of the Amazon is that we're
one of we're probably the last generation that's going to have the chance
to save the Amazon as it is because experts are warning
that we've lost right now a roughly coming up on 20% of the Amazon has been destroyed.
Now, here's the thing.
That's a system where the moisture cycle replenishes itself.
The Amazon breathes out moisture and then it comes into the
thunderheads and it rains back down on itself.
And that system contains a fifth of the water of the fresh water on our planet, a fifth.
And so if we cut too much of that system and it's not like a ton of the carbon
out of the air too, right, 100% like it's a couple metric tons of carbon
or like hundreds of metric tons.
But if it's not able to breathe that moisture up and then keep the rain forest cycle going,
then you're going to have the Amazon dry out.
The fires will get worse.
The whole ecosystem could collapse, the whole biome.
And so we're coming up on that point where it's like, OK, but you can get frantic about this
or we come together as a global society and say, OK, look, what do we have to do?
What incentives? What trade incentives do we have to give Brazil?
What does Peru want? What do you guys want?
And let's help everybody to have the opportunity and say, look, instead of cutting
down this much forest, let's give all those people these jobs.
It's not rocket science. It's really not.
We have the opportunity to do this.
And that's why what Ryan's doing in Africa is so exciting,
because you've got these people going frantic.
How do we save black rhinos? How do we save them?
It's like, dude, take a bunch of American vets that have the tactical knowledge
and put them on the fence line.
Ain't nobody going to shoot a rhino when you've got a bunch of ex marines
on the right on the fence line like they know exactly what they've been.
Yeah, that's the perfect thing, right?
Because there's a U.S. fucking failed in figuring out a useful way
to put veterans back to work in a meaningful way.
That is a that is a fucking incredible idea.
It's absolutely incredible.
So is that what you guys plan on doing, too?
No, that paw that paw is works really well in Africa.
OK, I don't know to what degree we could do it in the Amazon.
I've been talking about that with Ryan a little bit.
But sounds like it would work fucking.
It sounds like it would work a little bit amazing.
I think in a place like South Africa,
where there's like a population of white people to begin with,
it makes a little bit more sense.
But like if there was like a bunch of big,
like tall white guys in military fatigues walking around the backwards
of the Amazon, I feel like somehow I just don't think the locals would appreciate
that very much. No, no.
And like a lot of the ways I've survived just by like being
so in with them, like the fact that I'm in with, you know, bare feet and whatever else.
Actually, you were talking about the dangers.
And I wanted to tell you before I forget that there's one day I was I was coming.
This was a very non eventful.
I've had solos where I go out for two weeks and the craziest shit ever happens.
And I come back all banged up.
And then I've had solos where I go out for 10 days and come back.
And it was beautiful.
And I took a lot of nice pictures, you know, and you don't you don't write
a book about those ones, but they're also nice in their own way.
But one time I had a very relaxed solo as out for I wanted to do the whole length
of my river and I did most of it without going towards the tribes.
But I'm coming down river one day and this boat is coming.
It's like it's like hanging out in like the shallows underneath this tree.
And then they like come out aggressively and they come towards me.
I'm in like a inflatable pack raft with a backpack on and I all my food
had gotten wet the night before and they pull up to me and they go, you on the boat.
Like, oh, shit.
And they got machine guns and shit.
And I realized they got they got packages of tarp and like rectangles.
And I was like, oh, shit, they're running cocaine.
These are those guys.
And I was like, hey, guys, I was like, what's up?
And they're like, what are you doing out here?
And I was like, I'm a photographer.
I was like pictures.
See, I was like, look, I can show you pictures.
And they were like, well, where they go, where's your guide?
Where's your guide gringo?
And I was like gringo.
And they're like in a bunch of like really dirty local languages.
Like, listen, motherfucker, you think I'm not from here?
And I was like, I gave them that whole thing.
And they're like, all right, you talk like you're from here.
And then I pulled up some anaconda pictures on my phone.
I was like, look at this.
I was like, you ever caught an anaconda that big?
And then they were like, whoa.
And these dudes, they like put the machine gun behind their back and they're like, yo,
Hector, come here, look at this.
Give this gringo a brick.
And then I was like, they're like, do you need anything?
And I was like, no.
And they're like, so you're not lost.
And I was like, no, I'm not lost.
I was like, you guys got some smokes.
And they're like, yeah.
I was like, all right, cool.
I was like, can I go?
That's fucking awesome.
And I was like, I was like, I was like, stay safe out there.
And they're like, what do you mean?
I was like, don't get arrested.
And they were like, they're like, so you know.
And I was like, yes.
But they were like, again, they were the chillest guys ever.
As long as you're not a threat to them.
Right.
Guys just trying to feed their families.
Yeah.
Dude, the craziest thing that they have on our rivers,
because the rainforest canopy is so high, you're talking like 150 feet.
And so you have, you know, 130 foot tree trunk.
And then you have the branches.
And so apparently there's this one long stretch of river
where you can take a plane down and fly it between the trees.
And then they've actually cut out underneath the canopy along hallway.
And they have made the ground fly through.
And so what they do is they land under the canopy.
Oh my.
So they stay under radar by staying above the canopy.
And then they actually land down there.
They get resupplied on the coke and then they fly right back out.
Oh, they're geniuses.
And you hear them flying at like 4 a.m.
Every now and then I'll wake up because we don't have flights.
You don't like, you know, like if you live in New York,
you hear flights all day long over your head.
When you're in the middle of the Amazon, you don't hear planes.
But then like at 4 a.m.
Every now and then you hear like, and it's just this old little tin box,
little Cessna like going over.
Are there like lots of cocaine factories out there in the middle of the jungle?
Yeah.
Peru is taken.
I think Peru took over Colombia.
It's the number one country.
I got to check on that one.
But I think they Google that.
Yeah.
There's there's like songs about it now.
Peru being cocaine.
I just just came up on Spotify.
Peru overtook Colombia in manufacturing cocaine.
Yeah.
I think I think Peru is the number one right now.
Okay.
Bolivia, Colombia and Peru.
Yeah.
Where's Bolivia?
Right below Peru.
Oh, it's right below Peru.
Okay.
So they all it all comes right out of there.
Yeah.
And that's all right on the western.
Western part of South America.
Yeah.
So that's crazy.
So there's just like random like rogue little areas where they're just fucking
mixing the cocoa leaves with gasoline and creating all that shit.
That's insane.
Yeah.
And like cocoa leaves is like a thing.
You chew cocoa leaves down there.
It's like coffee.
It gives you energy, but it's not it's not cocaine.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So it's a totally separate thing.
But yeah, down there, that's a that's a big industry.
Ant eaters.
Ant eaters.
Oh my God.
My favorite.
My favorite.
You raised an anteater.
I did.
I raised a baby anteater.
Yeah.
So there's this myth in Peru that if you shoot an anteater that the bullet will glance off of it
and that you will not actually kill the anteater.
So a lot of people try to kill them for no reason.
They're not trying to eat them or anything.
And somebody had tried to do that on our river.
And there was this baby anteater and we went to this spot and they had this little tiny anteater.
And the thing with anteaters is they live on their mother's backs for like the first year of their life.
So they cling onto their mother's back and they have these huge claws.
And so a giant anteater is like, think of something that's like
a little bigger than a German shepherd with a tail as long as its body.
So it's like this huge animal and they have to be able to fight off Jaguars.
And so a giant anteater will stand up on its hind legs when you threaten it.
Let's say you corner a giant anteater, they'll stand up on their hind legs and they have like
wolverine claws on the front.
They use those for excavating termite mounds and they will open your guts.
Like they will slash you open if you corner them.
If you don't, they'll never seen somebody get mauled by one.
I've never, I've never seen anybody get mauled by one.
I've seen a dog get mauled by one.
A friend of mine was hunting.
He thought it was a taper and he was going around the stream bed.
His dogs ran ahead and he heard a yelp.
And when he got around, the anteater was holding one dog in its claws.
And it had grabbed it by the neck and had pinched the neck off.
And so the dog was dead.
And then the other dog ran up barking and he just right through the throat, killed this dog.
And then so my friend, this guy like lifted his rifle to try and shoot the anteater.
And this is like a Peruvian guy.
So he's like, you know, a jungle guy is not very tall.
And the anteater started walking towards him with claws out and he said,
the thing was looking at him straight in the face and he just threw his rifle and ran for it.
And it's like, these things are monsters, dude.
They call them Oso Bandara Higante.
So it's bear flag giant because it's just the flag for the tail bear for the arms and everything.
It's just like a it's like a composite animal.
Absolutely.
Are they fast?
Um, they're pretty fast.
But again, they would never bother you.
I mean, look, I'm sleeping with them in a hammock.
They're sweethearts.
And she would, she would, you know, she'd never mother.
So she had to be hugging me the whole time.
And then I would eventually like be like, I can't do anything
because I got this anteater on me all the time.
So I'd lay down in a hammock.
I'd fall asleep and then they have a tongue that's like a foot long.
And so she'd wake up and she'd be like, I want to play.
And so she'd take her tongue and she'd start firing her tongue up my nose.
And it would like come out my mouth or then she'd fire at my ear and stuff.
And it was like, just like, she's like, I have to take this anteater off of me.
And then she'd be like, no, no, no, no, no, I want to love you.
And she'd like grab onto me with the claws and it would pinch right through my skin.
And so I was just like all ripped up.
And I was like 19 years old and taking care of this anteater.
It was awesome.
But I also got to experience the forest from the perspective of an animal.
Because everybody else went home and I was like, I'm going to stay with this anteater.
And so I was like going through the Amazon rainforest on my hands and knees,
raising this baby giant anteater.
And so interacting with animals and trying to teach her how to find ants.
And I had to basically become a mother anteater to this little thing
and like raise her until the point that she could go back into the forest.
How long do you have the anteater for?
A few months.
A few months.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I missed a, that was the first time I missed a college semester because I was just like,
you know, I went back to town for a resupply.
I called home and I went, mom, dad, I'm staying.
And at what point did you decide to let her go?
She started spending more time out in the bush and then she started coming back.
So like when you talk, when you're asking about JJ and like where he grew up,
like these little communities, like the little like palm thatched huts over the top and stuff like that.
Um, but yeah, this is all the old, all the old.
What the fuck happened to you here?
Fuck.
That was a antibiotic resistant MRSA infection.
All over your fucking face.
Yeah, that was bad.
I almost died from that one.
Holy shit.
How did that happen?
I don't know.
I went, I think I had dengue and then I went to the hospital in town to get tested and they were like,
yep, you have dengue.
I think while I was in town, you know, these hospitals, they have like cats and dogs running
around dead people on the, on like on the floor.
While I was in the hospital, I must have gotten this infection.
And then I went back out into the jungle and I kept going, it'll get better,
it'll get better, it'll get better.
Until one day I woke up and my eyes were sealed shut from pus.
And I had all this green scoop leaking out of my face everywhere on my body.
And for a whole day, I only saw him black and white and I had like a horrendous fever.
And then I wanted to get out of the jungle.
But at that time there was no boats going down the river.
It was the rainy season.
And so for like three days, I was just by the side of a river just like hoping there would be a boat.
And the first boat to come was this poaching boat.
And they had all these dead animals.
There was a dead mother spider monkey with the baby still alive,
like holding onto the mother's body.
And I was just like laying in this like pile of dead animals.
And I was practically a dead animal myself and there's flies all over me.
And I got to town and I called my parents and I just said,
get me out of here as soon as possible.
And they got me on a flight.
And then like I had a hood up and I was like, I was like putting Vaseline all over my face
because it hurt so much.
And on the flight home, somebody sat next to me and they looked over at me and I just was like,
and like the woman got up and left and she must have talked to a stewardess
because she never came back.
Oh my.
She must have gotten reseeded.
And then I get to like immigration in New York and the guy goes,
hey, how's it going?
He goes, you know, passport, passport, looks at my passport.
And he goes, yeah, what were you doing in Peru?
He looks up and he goes, buddy, what the fuck?
And I was like, I was like, I don't know.
I was like, I'm just, I'm just trying to go to the doctor, man.
He goes, he goes, holy shit.
He goes, he goes, he stamps the passport.
He goes, go, go, go, go, please.
He was like, for the love of God, he goes, God bless you.
He goes, I hope you're okay, man.
I went, yeah, I think you let me in the country looking like that.
Jesus.
I could have had a Bolivirus for all this guy knew.
Like I look at that's fucked up.
That is fucked up.
Hold that up next to the microphones, we can see it.
Yeah.
This was, this was me dying.
Oh my lord.
That is fucked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was convinced at this point that I was not going to recover from that.
In my understanding, I was dying.
So how do you catch something like that down there?
I mean, MRSA is a huge problem.
I mean, we're down there.
It is everywhere.
It is very common.
I mean, infections are constantly outpacing our ability
to create new antibiotics for them.
It's a huge problem.
I think in, you know, in the medical community,
that's a huge problem in hospitals.
And so, yeah, some of the tree saps in the Amazon
might be the answer to that because there's some compounds down there
that just murder bacteria.
When you come up here, do you have any problems
with immune systems or you're like immunity or anything?
No, I've actually, I think I've gotten stronger.
Really?
Yeah.
I think I've gotten really, I think it's helped.
The only thing that happened was in LA,
in somehow in LA, I got typhoid.
And that just, I used to have a stomach like I could eat
like a dead cat off the side of the road and I'd be fine.
And like after typhoid, I lost like 30 pounds.
I was like dying.
And then I went to the doctor.
They're like, you have typhoid.
They put you on medicine for it and stuff.
But after that, my stomach has been a little bit more sensitive.
And like now, if I drink a glass of milk, it'll kill me.
Like not kill me, but like, you know,
I'll feel like shit the rest of the day.
But that's the only change other than that,
I feel like the jungle has actually just made me so much stronger.
Well, I wonder what would happen to like one of the guys that it was,
has always lived down there.
If you bought him up here, I wonder if like they would
have trouble kind of like adapting.
No, they wouldn't like it, obviously.
They wouldn't like the fucking culture, obviously.
But I'm wondering like, like as far as like adapting to like their immune system,
adapting to living up here in this pollution,
like the polluted air and the different food and shit.
Taking one of those guys.
What would it do to them?
I wonder walking around with no shirt on eating coconuts in the sun all day
and then like put them through a New York winter.
They're not living by the ancestral tenants up here.
No.
What do you think of that guy?
Man, that poor, that poor dude.
I mean, dude, look, you don't want anybody to not tell the truth.
But at the same time, like, are any of these other people
and what they're selling, are they real?
You know what I mean?
Like is the rock really not on steroids?
Right.
Is it was Lance Armstrong really not on steroids?
Does anybody for a second look at liver king with that bloated giant six pack
and go natural?
No.
And now he's like, oh, man, I really fucked up.
I'm so sorry.
It's like, bro, just keep doing what you're doing.
The problem is he went on like a thousand podcasts
when they asked him right to his face.
He said, never tried it, never will.
Never tried it, never will.
It's like, all right.
Well, now we found you, man.
He'll come back stronger from this, I'm sure.
Do you see the video he made, the response video?
I saw him going, I really messed up.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I saw that.
He's like, I am on steroids.
I am on human growth.
The dude drinks like two liters of HGH a day.
Dude, he's explosive.
Like he's sitting on podcasts.
He's literally like sitting there backwards
and like his abs are like a mountain range.
They don't look right.
They don't look right.
I mean, but he's hysterical, though.
I mean, like there's a reason he blew up.
Like he's whatever.
Could you imagine putting him in the rainforest?
When he had like four of the best collab,
when he had like 400 followers, I wrote to liver king
and I was like, look, whatever you're doing.
It seems like you like outdoor workouts, primal living.
I was like, why don't you come piranha fishing with us?
And he was like, hello, primal.
He was like, I would love to do that.
He's like, but are you on, he goes,
are you on the liver train?
And I was like, what the fuck?
And he was like, do you eat everything?
And I was like, yeah.
I was like, I ate a turtle yesterday with my,
you know, when you're in the indigenous communities,
you eat whatever they put on the table.
And he was like, sounds great, primal, I'll let you know.
So it's like, I talked to him briefly in like DMs,
but then he got super famous and then doesn't write back.
Yeah, yeah, it was all just a business plans, all it was.
It's a business plan, I don't know.
Yeah.
I mean, he's an internet, you know, whatever.
He's an influencer who apparently was already rich
before he made his millions and millions
off of being liver king.
Yeah, that's what he said in his video.
He said, yeah, I was rich and anonymous.
Now I'm rich and everyone knows me.
And it is, you know, when people,
when everyone knows you and you're like a public figure
and all that stuff, it's hard to, it's not good to lie
because you're going to get caught in your fucking lie.
And the dude had no idea how to navigate that fucking world.
He had no idea how to lie.
The only thing I say is like, when you look at these,
like Joel Olstein, like televangelist people that are like,
you know, send us some money and Lord Jesus
is going to bless you with blessings.
It's like, okay, there you go.
You're not doing steroids, but you're promising people
that you're going to fix their lives if they send you money.
Right.
Like Scientology.
You got a direct line to God.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Come on.
Like, so like liver king, they'll do a thing.
He'll apologize.
And then I'm sure everyone's going to be like,
oh, poor liver king.
And then they'll send them, you know,
fucking, they'll send them more steroids and then he'll be okay.
Yeah.
More people will end up buying his liver supplements
than all of his bullshit.
It'll be fine.
I'm sure he'll be fine.
I'm not worried about liver king.
Anything else we forgot to cover?
Fires.
The fires, dude.
Yeah.
What's going on with the fires?
How, how are they, like,
are they getting worse?
Are they getting better?
Yeah.
So the thing that people don't realize is that in 2019,
my life changed a lot in 2019 because the fires were bad in 2019.
And what happened was outside of Sao Paulo, Brazil,
the Amazon fires were pluming up and there was black smoke
and it covered the sun.
And people were taking pictures of this
and it looked like the apocalypse.
So that made it onto the internet.
And then the internet was like, well, why is this happening?
Oh my God, because of the Amazon fires.
And then it got on the news and all of a sudden we had this hysteria
over the Amazon fires in 2019.
And so I was, I had just gotten home from the Amazon
and we'd been filming a documentary
and I was just standing in a field filming on my phone,
being like, this happens every fucking year.
You guys are burning down this stuff
and we don't need to be letting this happen.
There's animals burning to death behind me.
And I said, welcome to the fucking Anthropocene.
And it was the first time I'd ever cursed the Anthropocene.
Like the quaternary, tertiary, the Holocene
was I think the last epoch that we were in.
And then now they're saying that we're in the period
of the Anthropocene, where it's like millions of years from now,
if they were to find this period on earth,
it would be defined by the layer of human stuff on earth,
in the fossil record.
And so I had this video and when I saw the articles
on the Amazon fires, I was like, this is so stupid.
I was like, it burns every year.
Why are people freaking out about it this year?
Yeah.
So I threw this video up on Instagram
and it was kind of like uncharacteristic
because before that it was always like
beautiful pictures of the jungle.
And I remember because I took my phone
and it was on like 100% and I put it on the refrigerator
and I went to bed.
One the morning I woke up and like stumbled out of bed
and my phone's on the floor.
And I was like, that's weird.
I pick up my phone and it's on 1% battery
and there's 40,000 notifications from Instagram
and there's like all these missed calls.
And I was like, what happened while I was asleep?
Phone call comes in, pick up the phone.
They go, hi, is this Paul Rosie?
I said, yeah, who's this?
And they're like, it's MSNBC.
And I was like, what?
And then that started.
And then as I'm on the phone with them, like CBS called
and as I'm on the phone with them, I was like, guys,
you got it, hold on.
And I was like trying to find a charger.
It went viral overnight and everyone shared it.
And then it started blowing up.
And then all of a sudden I was on all these interviews
for the Amazon fires.
And then actually what happened was then
Joe Rogan shared it.
And then at that point it like went mega viral.
And all of a sudden we started getting all the support
for the Amazon.
And then that's where really jungle keepers went from
that we were like, we had a couple, we had like two
Rangers and we were protecting a little bit of forest.
And it's like, it connected us to the people
that made it possible for us to protect.
Now we're protecting 50,000 acres of forest.
We have 15 Rangers.
We have numerous boats.
We have a real chance of protecting this entire watershed
in the Amazon rainforest.
And so now it's like, I'm trying to explain to people
how you can use storytelling and social media
to get the word out.
Because when you say like, what can we do?
Like, is there a way of turning this around?
It's like, yes, but people have to know about it.
Yeah.
And so like this year, the fires were almost just as bad.
I mean, I think it was, one of the days in August
was the worst day for burning in the Amazon in 15 years.
Really?
Yeah.
We were out there and horrendous like 70-foot flames
freshly cut forest.
It was just burning.
Me and my friend Mohsen were out there and we were sent
to document this.
And it was like, we were just breathing in.
I mean, I couldn't walk for two weeks after that.
Like the very, very, very, very poor decision-making
in hindsight to walk into a forest fire
with no lung protection.
Right.
I was hacking up black snot from my lungs
for weeks after that.
But and then it's at one point, at one point,
we're in the fires and the Amazon is burning
and I'm trying to like record video.
My phone all of a sudden does that thing
where it goes, the phone is too hot.
You can't use it.
I get like that warning notice and I'm like, oh, shit.
And so I'm like, I'm like, I got to get out of here.
And I'm like, holy shit, my skin is starting to burn.
All of a sudden I hear, help.
And I go, where are my guys?
I was like, where is everybody?
And all of a sudden I just see this huge wall of flame
and I start running and I hear help again.
I hear help and I'm trying to find a way around,
but everything's burning.
So it's like, I had to go back around
and then jump over some stuff
and so pretty much like jump through
like a vertical wall of flames.
And as I'm running, I see my friends
like multi-thousand dollar professional camera
laying in the ashes and I go, holy shit.
Like for, I was like, this guy's dead.
And so I got, I pick up the camera,
can't touch it, it's too hot.
And so I threw it on the ground,
just like just outside where the burning was.
And I go and I see my friend Mohsen
and he's on his hands and knees
and he's got his face in the ground.
And I'm going, what is going on?
And he's just coughing and coughing.
There's a little bit of water, like a little puddle
and he just was putting his eyes in the puddle.
And then JJ comes out of the forest
and he takes his shirt off,
dips it into the floor of the rainforest.
And like the forest is burning next to us,
but we just found a little bit of green
and he's squeezing it over Mohsen's head.
He basically, he took one bad lung full of air
and just went down and then just like got burnt,
got blinded and just ran for it,
jumped to the camera.
And so we spent the rest of the day
like trying to get him better.
And to his credit, he actually like stood up
and was like, let's start filming again
and like switched out his battery
and was like, fuck it.
Like, oh my God.
And we just like had singed clothing and everything.
And it's like, you know, you come limping out of this
horrendous apocalyptic thing
and you try to tell the world what's happening
because every year we're allowing this to happen.
And what are they going to do with that land?
They're going to make a papaya farm on it.
That particular farmer who, again,
big bad destroyers of the Amazon,
we went up to this guy who said,
are you burning your forest today?
He goes, yep.
We went, can we film it?
We couldn't stop him from doing it,
but we said, can we film it?
And he goes, I don't give a shit.
He goes, be careful.
The flames went up and you see monkeys running
for their lives.
This is because, you know, animals hide in the tree trunks.
You see animals burning in the tree trunks
and they try to come out and then they burn
and they curl.
Absolute, horrific devastation.
It was like watching the bombing of Dresden.
It was just, you're watching the most beautiful
biological treasure on earth just getting
incinerated before your eyes.
And so we were doing that in August
and I've been, just this week,
sharing videos of that burning and that footage,
which I think is what led up to
speaking at the Biodiversity Conference,
which is just like,
you don't, unless you're on the ground,
you can't see what's happening, you know what I mean?
If the news isn't covering it, it's not happening.
And so like that's why we feel like it's our duty
to, you know, to the animals.
It's like, I've spent time living with herds of elephants.
I've spent time raising a giant anteater.
It's like these monkeys, these things,
it's like now we're responsible for millions and millions
of heartbeats in this forest.
And so when we see it burning like that,
it's like there's no one else who's going to go do this.
There's no one else who's going to risk their lives,
run into here, have probably permanent lung damage,
but to have the ability to show people what's actually happening
and then try to rally the support to say,
we can actually protect this.
And that's sort of, you know, from the old days,
it's kind of interesting the way our conversation has gone,
because we've covered it from the old days to now.
And it's like, now it's like, that's the job now.
The job is rallying enough.
If we can raise like $30 million,
we can protect an entire tributary of the Amazon rainforest.
And so we just started this initiative.
How does that work anymore?
It's funny, because if my cousin,
my cousin actually who's in the banking world was a,
she's like, what's your number?
And I was like about 30 million to protect the whole rainforest.
And she's like, that's not that much.
And I was like, it's not that much, it's a lot.
She goes, no, she goes, thanks.
She goes, that's 300,000 people giving $100 donation.
And I went, that's not that much.
300,000 people, that's a few football stadiums.
Right.
I said, I could do that.
She goes, we'll get on it.
And then so it's like, well, once you realize that you can do it,
and once you realize that you're only,
the only person equipped to do it, well, then you have to do it.
And it's like, you know, my life has been changed by these,
you know, the local people and the communities that are in the Amazon,
and by JJ's wisdom and teachings and all these incredible species.
And it's like, we have the opportunity to protect this river,
but we got to do it in the next few years.
We have to do it in the next two to three years before,
because now the logging companies are being subcontracted
by Chinese logging companies,
because they want, they want that Amazonian timber,
because they've used all their timbers.
So now they want Amazonian timber.
Really?
And so the pace of deforestation is going up.
And so now the pace of what we're doing is going up.
And so now it's like, back in the day,
it was like, I don't really know what I'm doing.
I've just came to the Amazon.
I like taking pictures and finding snakes and seeing cool wildlife.
And now it's like, we've all just become jungle keepers.
And we've had all these people come on to the team.
And that's from, you know, from JJ to the Guy Mosin,
who's a conservation photographer.
We have this woman, Dina, who runs the ranger program.
And then after Rogan shared that clip,
we ended up getting in touch with this Canadian billionaire
named Dax De Silva, who he made his money in the tech industry
on an app called Lightspeed,
which is kind of like a Shopify type of thing.
It was going to be like the competitors Shopify.
But then he decided that he's going to use his financial abilities
to support conservation.
So he's supporting the Sea Shepherd.
He's protecting land in Canada, where he's from.
He's protecting us in the Amazon.
He's working in Africa.
And so everyone's always like, oh, why don't these rich people
save the world?
It's like, well, he is, right.
He's killing it.
He's making so much conservation work possible.
And by doing it, by supporting the people on the ground,
protecting untold numbers of endangered species
and entire cultures of indigenous people
that depend on these ecosystems to live.
And so there's really inspiring stuff happening.
And it's exciting being at the point
where we can actually help that, which is also why
I really appreciate you having me on here,
because it gives people the opportunity to learn about that.
Because then they can donate to jungle keepers.
They can get the t-shirt.
They can become a jungle keeper.
And then they can also come with us to the field,
come visit the place that they're helping to protect.
It's not like a dream anymore.
It's like, no, no, no, we're doing this.
We're actually creating a biological corridor
between protected areas.
It's going to be something that is a part of Earth heritage.
That's the level of biodiversity that we're talking about.
Well, that's fucking incredible, man.
It's an honor to have you on here to share these stories
and to elaborate on what is going on down there
and how people can help it.
Tell people exactly where they need to go to find you,
where they can donate, what they need to do.
Yeah, you need to stop feeling bad about the environment.
No more environmental guilt.
Go to www.junglekeepers.org, donate $100,
and then get rid of your environmental guilt.
That's it.
You're helping a team of Indigenous people
and international experts protect an entire tributary
of the Amazon.
Every single acre in this place is packed with spider monkeys
and jaguars and harp eagles and anacondas
and all these species that we haven't discovered yet,
undiscovered medicines.
And so really, most of us can afford that.
For a lot of people, that's like your Starbucks bill
for the month.
$100 is doable.
And then you're part of an organization
that's actually doing something, action-based.
Let's stop feeling bad about the environment going to hell.
Let's protect part of the Amazon.
Let's start there.
A tangible win and save endangered species.
Stop the extinction crisis.
And then it's like we're just building a family.
We're building a network of support.
And so it's like we're past the point
where it's a faraway issue that we can't do anything about.
It's like, no, no, no, that's the point of Jungle Keepers.
And the thing is, with big organizations...
The website's fucking incredible, by the way.
Dude, the website...
So sick.
The footage that you have, especially from that documentary,
that deep or that dark green documentary.
Yeah, Stefan, if you're listening, our guy Stefan,
who's part of the team, he did that website for us.
Thereby proving that all web developers are assholes.
Because before that, it was like to get anything done
with the website.
They're like, yeah, it's going to be three weeks
and $7,000.
He's like, dude, I did all the pages.
I mean, instantly, he just gets it done immediately.
He's so effective.
He's helped us so much.
But yeah, when you donate to these big organizations,
it's like, is it going to advertising?
Is it going to their corporate payroll?
Like you don't know, with Jungle Keepers,
it's like we're literally just a team of people
in the Amazon protecting forest.
It goes straight to local rangers.
A lot of them are ex-loggers.
It's like we're literally changing people's lives,
protecting endangered species.
And like you said, those old growth trees
protect so much more carbon than any sapling.
And we can't get those back.
It's not a renewable resource.
Once you cut a 500-year-old tree,
it's going to be another 500 years
before we get a tree like that.
And so those are the big, important parts
of the engine that is the Amazon.
Those things are holding all that carbon in the ground.
And they're also the habitat for all the species.
And so it's like, you'll hear people be like,
oh, we have to plant trees.
It's like, no, we have to save the ecosystems
that are there now.
And that's what we're dedicated to,
and that's what I've dedicated my life to.
Well, doing a hell of a fucking job, Paul.
Appreciate it.
I really appreciate it, dude.
Fascinating stuff.
