Hey I'm Luke and we're in Tampa today. I got to make this quick because there's
about five SWAT guys behind me with itchy trigger fingers. They got non-lethal
bullets and pepper spray and they're not afraid to use them. So I'm going to go
ask some people some questions today and see how they're feeling about everything
that's going on in the world.
HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS
UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP! HANDS UP!
… uh, where you out here today
… um, to support a cause I believe in
… what is that?
… fighting for black lives matter
… inviting
… it's not belief butality
…it's capital murder
… we all need to speak up
… if we want to change
… so what are you hoping to accomplish here today
… to show them
… that we care
… and that we're here
… and that we want our voices to be heard
… and that even though
… I can't understand
… everyday what it feels like
… to be a black man or woman
… in America today
… it doesn't mean I can't empathize
And I'm going to stand here and let my voice be heard, because there's Orange!
And that's why I'm here.
Thank you.
We're tired of this madness happening to our black young men and sons.
I have four sons and one go to the University of something and I do not want this to happen to him.
So listen, we're tired of talking, no more talking.
It's time to get it together.
If either you're with us or you're against us, period.
So no more talking, it's time for action.
Nope.
Action, you'll see.
What do you hope to accomplish out here today?
You know what time it is.
It's injustice all over this world and all y'all care about, especially to the Hillsborough County Sheriff.
You said that you are not going to tolerate all of the looting and all of this.
What are we not going to tolerate?
You shouldn't be tolerating all the abuse against all of us, against all of the black people in America.
You shouldn't tolerate that.
That's what you should have something to say about.
You worry about property, that shit can be replaced with insurance.
You hear what I'm saying?
That's what insurance is for.
We don't give a fuck about what y'all got going on down here.
We care about lives.
That's the only thing that matters here.
It's about black lives and y'all don't give a fuck about us.
We don't give a fuck about y'all.
Remember that.
Thank you so much.
Fuck the cops!
Yeah!
Like I said, we're in this together.
The only enemy in the system.
That's it.
That's it.
Everybody hurt every day.
Until we burn it down.
Until, no, until it's fixed.
Drink! Drink!
Happy to see you again.
I don't know, no, no, no.
I don't need them until they fix it.
But if they don't want to fix it, y'all know what's going on.
Our brothers and sisters are dying.
There's more that's hard getting me.
I am neglected every day.
Everyone I know, I don't know if my brother's gonna make it home.
My brother's gonna make it home, and I mean that better.
You don't know what it's like to be scared.
They don't know what it's like.
Those black cops that are over there are just like us,
and they don't act like you.
These police don't sympathize with us,
and we gotta make sure they see us.
Yes, sir!
Yeah!
You said it, you said it!
Silence is complicit!
Silence is complicit!
Silence is complicit!
I'm protesting for equality.
I'm protesting for justice.
I'm protesting so my brothers and sisters
stop getting killed.
That's what I'm doing out here today.
So are you a part of the organization here?
You were up there, you know,
we were making a lot of really great points,
and it was like really passionate,
and I want you to get some of that passion here for us.
I'm in no organization.
My friend Leah right here,
she told me one day she hosted a protest,
and I told her I wanted to be a part of it,
that I wanted to lead it, I wanted to be a part of her.
And I just came out here with a megaphone,
and some passion, and I spoke my truth.
I just have a megaphone, that's it.
I have a megaphone and I got balls,
and I'm not scared to go up to them.
That's the only difference,
but everyone that's out here is doing exactly what I'm doing.
They all sweating, they all fighting.
I'm not doing nothing more.
I literally just have a megaphone, that's it.
Like, that's it.
Thank you for your time, man.
I appreciate you.
I hope you accomplish what you guys are out here to do.
We not gonna stop till we do,
and please put this everywhere.
I want people to see it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
What the fuck?
What the fuck?
I don't even think we're winning.
Listen to me.
Listen to me, girl.
Get him!
Get the guy, get him!
Get him!
Well, I'm out here because this is just outrageous.
We have enough of bad police stepping out there
and using their privilege and power to kill the minority.
But it's not just about the minority.
It's about all life matter,
because this is just enough.
This is America.
We say this is the land of the free.
But we don't see freedom when another man can knee,
take a knee on another man's neck.
So this is just one drop that overflow the bottle.
So we have enough of that.
That's the reason why we are here today.
And what do you hope to accomplish out here today?
Well, you know,
a lot of time this happened.
This is not the first time, the first murder.
We actually feel like sometime when we step out,
at least they can hear our voice
and be reminded that the power is to the people.
Not to them, just because they got the uniform
and the belt holding the gun.
The power comes to the people.
You know, we're here to let them understand
that if we keep going, you know,
what you guys have probably seen in other states,
they're not gonna stop us.
But we're not here for that.
We're here for peace and we want them to learn that.
We want them to understand that all lives matter.
You're here for equality and you're here for each other.
That's exactly what we hear and what we hear.
And you have seen, it's not just black people,
but it's all people.
It's all people that have had enough
and we are all out here to remind them
that there are nothing but people, just like us.
So they may have that little privilege
with the gun and the badge,
but their life don't matter more than anyone out here.
That's right.
Thank you so much.
No problem, man.
And I appreciate you guys being out here with us.
I'm talking to you in every single one of y'all.
Look at me when I'm talking to you.
Every single one of you.
Look at me.
I have hurt in my eyes
and we won't be here until you see it.
We gonna be here for black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
Black lives matter.
This is a peaceful protest.
They can use it.
This is a peaceful protest.
This is a peaceful protest.
This is a peaceful protest.
We're back up.
Are we allowed to ask you guys
today you're not you can't do interviews okay what's about to go down they're
about to start throwing tear gas in about five minutes 730 as soon as
clock ticks 730 things are gonna be very violent and it is not going to be
this way toward them is going to be the opposite because it always is the
opposite do you think that's what typically sparks the violence is when
the cops react at a peaceful protest like this once they start throwing stuff
that's what sets everybody off stick around and find out um I mean I was
here with pepper spray and tear guys luckily there were people that were
like first responders out here protesting so they had milk and stuff
like ready to help people I saw one guy get shot three times rubber bullets and
he had cuts like he just threw like a bandage over them like people were
prepared today that's all that I personally saw I mean they did throw
tear guys I saw one protestor pick it up and throw it back out what did they do
to provoke the police to do that um I mean I don't I don't know it seems more
like a leaded question I don't think they provoke the police to do anything
like that it seemed like the police were openly antagonistic and that's
obviously a chronic problem that we have here like since the police don't
actually live in the communities that they're policing there's always this
mindset of other which is like why we see this harsh mentality I mean even if
you look over now like there there's already an increase in the militancy
you have five minutes to disperse we'll be subject to arrest in the past curfew
which started at 7 30 p.m. because they woke up this morning and they're out here
because they want to protect you yes yes yes many of them are here to protect you
I care about your feelings I care about the person murdered I've donated to all
of these funds to try to solve this when you come out here like you're showing
your true passion for like what you stand up for you I'm saying and um like
me I like talk to some of the officers to see what's on their hearts and minds
I'm not gonna go up to them and say oh your race is because you're a police
officer because that's ignorant I'm not gonna come out here uneducated you
know I'm saying about what's going on and just just you know I'm saying be
ignorant so I mean you just talked to some of the officers see what's on our
hearts and minds and you you protest about whatever you stand for and whatever
you stand for you believe in it no matter what it is I don't see color like
we're all one I don't matter I have friends of every race so it don't matter
we're all one I treat everybody equally like no matter what your race is we all
win so yeah appreciate it man thank you for taking the time yes sir yeah man
look man I'm more on the ignorant side man they got us fucked up out here man
almost got pepper spray a whole bunch of times almost got shot but a rubber
bullets that shit like no joke man if it's supposed to be peaceful why y'all
making the violent
