Without further ado, we're going to take you in the lair where Turner does Fortnite.
What happened?
I mean, I don't know, I just killed everyone.
My name is Turner Tenney, aka FaZe Tifu.
I'm 20 years old and I play professional Fortnite for a living.
I mean, when we were young, I used to play Halo with my brother.
It was alright. I don't know, I took it a little bit more seriously, I guess,
but it was kind of just for fun and then I started to get into Call of Duty and Destiny
and started grinding Halo a lot, but he kind of just went off on doing his own YouTube pranks and stuff
and then obviously I was gaming, also helping him on the side,
but focusing more on gaming and streaming.
Ah! Ah! That's so much worse than the ghost pepper!
Once I started to get really good at Destiny and I got partnered on Twitch
and started making a little bit of money off of YouTube, speedrunning and doing whatever,
that's when I really realized that this is it, you know?
We never played video games at all growing up.
I think the first time he ever played a video game, he was like 12 or 13.
He started breaking world records on really popular games
and like one game would come out, he'd break world records and that,
another game would come out, he'd start breaking world records and that
and we all kind of started to take notice, like wow, he's actually insane when it comes to these games.
But I don't think it was really until like Fortnite came out where stuff really started to like start blowing up.
I have a background in Battle Royale's already, so I've been playing BRs.
I started out with H1Z1, I played that for a year or two and then I started playing PUBG
and then another Battle Royale came out called Fortnite and it was pretty easy after that.
I played PUBG for like six months probably, but then I quit the pursuit Fortnite.
Usually the goal of this game is to kind of just avoid people and just stay alive as long as possible.
Me being so experienced, I can just kind of deal with players early game
and not really have too much of an issue.
Pretty much the first thing you need to learn when playing this game is to get the building down
because that's like, in my opinion, it's way more important than shooting.
It may seem like a shooter when you watch it, but this game is all building.
The first time I knew Turner was going to do something in video games
is when he started breaking world records.
Like, I think it was H1Z1 and Destiny, he set world records in.
I don't know, we started watching him break world records.
He started getting recognition in the whole gaming community and we're like,
wow, he's actually really good at this.
I currently hold the record for the most kills in the solo versus solo at 29 kills.
So you load in with about, around 90 to 100 players.
So I managed to kill 29 out of that 99, potentially 99.
I managed to get lucky and find a lot of players and not die.
Alright.
I can't shoot, what the fuck?
I can't shoot.
I can't shoot.
I can't shoot.
Let's go, we beat the fucking kill record, dude.
Oh my god, solo kill record, dude.
29.
29, bro!
Dude, am I dreaming right now?
Oh my god, bro, am I dreaming?
I left tilted with 15 kills, bro.
Oh my god.
He'll kill you in a second.
He killed Ninja.
You can kill Ninja, you're as good as anybody on Fortnite.
In fact, I would assume since Ninja thinks he's the best,
Turner's better than he is because he killed him and he doesn't want to play Turner.
He's afraid of him.
Well, me and Ninja have been playing versus each other for years now.
Me and him used to play versus each other in H1,
and me and him would rotate from number one and number two on the leaderboards.
And we honestly have crossed paths on multiple games, multiple times.
He's dead, yeah.
TP, you're a TG, man.
100%, great play.
Oh, TP's running out against me, man, fuck.
He's from H1Z1.
I've been streaming on Twitch.
I've been partying on Twitch for almost three years now,
and I've been making a living off of that.
It's like, I've been streaming on Twitch for three years now,
and I've been making a living off of that.
It slowed down recently, and then I started playing Fortnite,
and now it's just picking back up because the game is so popular.
They pay through subscriptions, which are anywhere from five to ten to twenty-five dollars,
and what that is is people subscribe and they get emotes and they support your stream,
and that's monthly, and you also get paid from ad revenue.
I just got sniped from two hundred and twelve meters.
These are my stats.
I have almost ten thousand solo kills so far,
which isn't that much compared to some people.
I actually rock the Christmas shake, NogOps, because it's a Christmas exclusive,
so not everybody has it.
It's rare.
That's my gaming computer.
I'm running in both right now, but the gaming computer
and what I got in my middle monitor obviously in the streaming PC is on the left and right monitor.
I built both of them.
So you had a normal job?
No.
I've mode lawns and done shit like that, but I've never had like a nine to five.
Because he's so good, he's quiet, people don't know how good he is
because he doesn't care what they think.
He just plays because he's good at it, and then people like FaZe Clan came in and said,
wow, you're one of the best players in the world.
You've got to come with us, and he's fine.
He doesn't care.
The last people were nice, and the people before that, the teams he was on,
he just plays for the fun of it.
He actually could care less about the money, doesn't talk about the money, doesn't do it for the money.
And honestly, the reason I think Turner's the best Fortnite player in the world
is because of how good he is at everything else other than Fortnite.
He's out doing 85-foot backflips.
He's a professional skim boarder.
He's a professional level downhill longboarder.
He can surf, you know, 20-foot waves.
He doesn't just play Fortnite, and he's still one of the best in the world.
My next big goal is to try to win the first real Fortnite tournament.
Once that happens, I feel like...
I feel like I'd blow up more from that than what's going on now.
But that's my main goal.
Obviously, I want to hit a million subs on YouTube.
I think that's definitely possible with the way that my daily subscribers are going up.
But definitely winning the first big Fortnite tournament would be the ideal accomplishment for me in the future.
There's a few little tournaments, but Fortnite's so new that the competitive scene hasn't really...
Like, the eSports scene hasn't really blown up yet.
I think it's just the beginning, to be honest.
