Ding ding ding, we're live on YouTube with the one, the only, the Tifu.
What is up dude?
Thank you for doing this, I really appreciate it.
Just a Twitch streamer here on YouTube, you know.
Just a Twitch streamer.
Are you allowed to do this right now?
Am I going to get you in trouble?
I mean, I'll get up, I might get sued twice.
What?
Oh my God, dude.
I'm just getting out of here.
All right, good.
So dude, thanks again for coming out.
We had a great day going out and trying to get your windows tinted on your Tesla didn't
work out too well.
At least have my Tesla back.
It's been months.
Dude, that's crazy.
Something happened.
Yeah, but you don't need a car.
You just live on the beach.
You just like roll around the beach, surf, skim, play video games.
Yeah, I don't need my room.
Just kind of.
Unless you just need to go out and eat or, you know, get out.
You can just.
Yeah, sometimes I get out.
You know, steal someone's car.
Someone's car.
Someone's family.
You just skirt out.
You know?
Yeah, you pretty much bought them all Teslas already so you can just use their car whenever
you want.
I only bought my mom a Tesla.
Dude.
My dad and McLaren next.
I'm just kidding.
You're going to buy your dad a McLaren.
What is your dad drive?
I don't even know.
Does he still drive that like old stickered up, hooptie car?
No, actually, I don't even think he even has a car right now.
Oh my God.
He had a few cars, but we crashed them because.
You crashed them.
Yeah, there's a video coming soon.
Well, you've had your Tesla for like three months and you've already wrecked it, what?
Like three times.
You've side-swiped it.
You've curbed the rims.
It's like you just bought a car and then you decided to learn how to drive.
Yeah, I mean, I never, well, I had a few cars going up, but I actually have like a Rio
Rio car.
Yeah.
Like I had a 300Z.
You did?
Yeah.
Holy shit.
That's like a fast car.
Yeah.
I always had like, it was automatic, so I didn't really like driving it.
Have you always like been really into cars?
Yeah, a little bit.
What's that little green car that you had that you posted a couple of pictures of?
Like that little like weird looking green car.
It's blue.
Is it blue?
It's like, it's a 1963 Volkswagen Karma Gear.
Okay.
Where'd you get that thing?
Four speed.
My dad bought it.
Oh, did he?
Yeah.
It's pretty fun.
It's not fast, but.
Yeah.
It's fun.
Dude, so for the people out there, a lot of people don't know.
I do know, but I just want to clarify it.
What does T-Fu actually stand for?
Nothing.
Yeah.
How did you come up with the name?
It was just a gamer tag back in the day.
There's no meaning behind it.
There's no meaning.
People think there's a meaning.
Seriously?
Yeah.
Your brother told me it was turner fucks up everyone.
That's what people think.
That's what people think.
I don't know.
If people think I'm that creative, then.
Yeah.
I mean, it was four letters.
Back before they like, released like, I don't know, maybe a couple of years ago or three
years ago, they like, deleted all the inactive Xbox accounts, but before then it was really
hard to get like, lower, uh, lower lettered gamer tags.
Yeah.
So does T-Fu-E.
Yeah.
I couldn't get any three letters, so I just went with the four.
I think you should just go with the turner fucks up everyone.
That's pretty cool.
I think it's pretty dope.
Yeah.
So how, how long ago was that when you created that?
Like, was that when you first got into like online games or was that when you were like
on Xbox or?
I was on Xbox.
You were on Xbox.
Called Diddy and Hala.
Oh, okay.
And that's when you created that?
Yeah.
How long ago was that?
Six years ago.
Fuck.
Because I remember, like just hanging out with your brother and always see him filming
like the pranks that he does and like all those wild trampoline videos and like stunts
that he does.
Like a lot of the times that you would be there participating in it, but most of the time
you weren't.
You'd be in your room gaming or just like, you know what I mean, you'd be hidden away
like playing games.
Yeah.
Gotta stay busy.
Like.
Even when I wasn't doing anything really, you know.
Yeah.
But like, like it was, I figured you would have participated a little bit more in like his
videos, you know what I mean?
Just because.
As much as I could.
Because you had your own channel too.
I mean, you had like, I remember the first time I ever looked at it, you had like 160,000
subscribers and you're uploading like a lot of.
Destiny videos.
Yeah.
Destiny videos and all that.
Has anyone else that you know of, like when you were that age and you were like, whatever
that was six years ago, five years ago, when you're like in your room all day or most of
the day, however long it was streaming, did you know that it would lead to some level
of success?
Like, I mean, obviously you could never imagine it would lead to this level of success, but
did you ever, was there somebody else who had done something like that, who had achieved
like a high level of success?
I mean, when I started streaming was kind of early on, there wasn't really like, even
like the top streamers on the platform were that big, you know, like the top streamers
on the platform now are like 20, 30 times bigger than the biggest platform, like, or
the biggest stream on the platform then.
But I don't know.
I mean, there was still some success and money to be made, but I didn't think it was going
to blow up this much because Twitch is still blowing up.
Like live stream.
I don't know.
It's still blowing up.
But I didn't think it was going to be this big, but I'm glad it is now.
Is there, is there anybody who's made it that big just from streaming, just from playing
like online games similar to Fortnite or in the past?
I know there's, I mean, obviously PewDiePie, but he didn't get good at one specific game,
did he?
He was just kind of like really entertaining.
Yeah.
He's just an entertaining guy with, you know, good intentions.
Did you?
Not biased opinions.
Yeah.
Did you see, did you kind of like ever want to model yourself off him or were you just
mainly focused on becoming really, really good?
Because he's dog shit at video games.
He's just funny.
Yeah.
I just tried, I just tried to be as good as I possibly can because I, I mean, my main
goal when I started playing video games is like, if I can be better than all the other
people streaming, then somebody will fucking watch me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guess, I guess the reason I asked is because I'd never heard of a, like a gamer who had
made it to like a really high level of success that just was there because he was skilled
at the game.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
No, it's hard.
Yeah.
Because if you're not, if you're not really fucking good, you have to be really funny.
And you can even be really good and still not make it.
Yeah.
Did you ever have like conversations with your daddy or mom when you're really little like
about like what you're going to do for a career or for a living when you grow up?
Did they ever talk to you about that or you and your brother?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because I got the talk a lot like, what would they say to you?
Fucking go get a job at Publix.
No.
I'm just kidding.
Your dad would be the last person that would say that.
No, dude.
He definitely told me to go get jobs.
Did he?
Yeah.
For sure.
But I mean, I, I kind of always had money saved up though.
I never really spent money when I was a kid.
Right.
And you really don't spend that much money now, besides the Tesla.
Yeah.
And some other things.
But.
Shit for money.
You barely wear shoes as it is.
No, I have a good shoe collection.
That's probably the one.
The only things I actually do spend money on is shoes and clothes.
Yeah.
Other than that, I don't really buy shit.
I don't even pay rent.
What did you, did you ever like think like, what the fuck am I going to do for a living?
What am I going to do when I get older?
How am I going to make money?
Or did you just always feel like this is what I'm fucking going to do.
If it fails, it fails.
I don't know.
I mean like.
Did you think about that a lot?
Yeah.
But I was just trying to make it work.
Like even like three years ago, like I was signed to organizations getting paid salary,
making money off Twitch.
Like I was never like, it's not like I was like, I mean, I was making pretty terrible
money, but I don't know.
I was just doing it because it was bored and I was.
You made salary.
Yeah.
Like I was, I got picked up by like my first org like three years ago.
Oh, really?
I played HMZ on professionally and then went over to PUBG, played that professionally.
It's like, I was never really, and I had money like saved up from playing Destiny because
like when I first got like partnered on Twitch, I was like a hundred subs, which is terrible,
but I was making more money than like my friends.
So I was like, whatever.
You're making more money than kids that had like regular jobs.
Yeah.
And how long did that last for?
Like how long did you have a hundred or less subs on Twitch making a few years?
Really?
Yeah.
I think like I was doing pretty good at first and then like, I don't know, I stopped playing
Destiny to go play PUBG and that's when like my, my channel started to like die down a
little bit.
I would drop down to like a hundred, 200 subs, really, and I started playing Fortnite and
then obviously I took off because of that game.
When did that game come out?
I played Fortnite like a year and a half ago.
And as soon as it came out, you immediately started playing it?
No.
Right.
I, I started playing it a little bit and I thought the game was fucking terrible.
Why?
It had so many issues.
Like when it first came out, it was so bad, like it was not like, it wasn't like Fortnite
came out and the game was perfect and it was the best game ever and you know, it wasn't
even like that.
Like I played it for a while and I honestly, like I liked it a little bit, but like there
were so many issues with like healing and just, there was, I don't know, it was really
bad.
Yeah.
So I stopped playing it for a while and then when they introduced like, like Minis and
all that other shit, I started playing again and it got really fun, but at first it was
so bad.
It was such a terrible game.
Did you ever like, do you ever test games like when you're not streaming or do you pretty
much do everything online?
Oh, I don't really do anything aside from streaming though.
Like I'm not like gaming off stream.
No.
You're not going to waste your time.
If you're going to do anything, you're going to stream it live.
So you were like, even in tournaments when there's millions of dollars on the line, I'll
just still stream.
Yeah.
Fuck it.
Yeah.
Those, uh, those World Cup tournaments or whatever that are all online, you just stream
them with, typically people would delay it or what?
No, I just don't care.
If I get, if somebody wants to fuck over my millions of dollars and me not qualifying
because of them and fuck it.
Yeah.
Fuck them.
So, so we made, I, I talked to you like, I don't know when it was.
It was like, I think it was about April of 2018, like right when I first learned about
Fortnite and I asked you if we could make that little mini documentary and I remember
sitting with you in your backyard, we're sitting on like your trampoline or whatever and you're
looking at your social blade and me and Jack were sitting there and you're like, damn,
I got like 10,000 new subscribers today.
That's about what I'm getting now.
You're like, you're like, wow, this has been happening for like a week now.
What the fuck's going on, dude?
I'm like, shit, we better hurry up.
I'm going to hurry up and get this video done.
And um, you had like less than, I think you had less than 500,000 subscribers and then
like the end of the video, you said that your goal, your short-term goal was to hit a million
subscribers on YouTube.
And that was a year ago.
Yeah.
Now I'm over 10 million, so we're doing all right.
That's pretty insane, dude.
That's funny that like you were there before I was even like big posting videos.
Yeah.
It's funny.
There's like a little documentary.
It's like...
It is funny, right?
That's why I'm so glad we got to do this.
Yeah.
It's like the follow-up one year later.
This is exactly almost a year later.
I think it's been exactly a year.
Yeah.
It was April of 2018 or March.
We started filming in March.
I posted it in April.
Wow.
So, what, like you said it was like three to four years when you were streaming with
like 100 subs or whatever and it wasn't really going too crazy like right when Fortnite first
came out.
Like what is the likelihood of somebody doing that, somebody playing one of those video games
to make a career out of it or to make it not necessarily on your extreme level, but anywhere
close to that.
What is the likelihood of some kid at home playing in his parents' living room or sitting
in his room playing Fortnite to actually make a career out of it?
Honestly, it's pretty fucking hard.
Yeah.
Like if I were to start all over again, I don't know where I would begin because I've
been, I mean people, I don't know, like people, I encourage people to stream but they need
to understand it's like people like me that I've been streaming for four years straight,
you know?
Yeah.
I was already prepared, I was ready for it.
People like me, people like Ninja, you know?
We're not new, this isn't our first rodeo so like, I don't know, people can't expect
to just start streaming and be able to be a success overnight.
Yeah.
It's not that easy.
Because you guys, you guys were playing all those Battle Royale games way before that.
Yeah, years before.
I was playing Battle Royale professionally two years before Fortnite even released.
But people have done it, dude.
People have blown up just from Fortnite.
Well, how many people play that game, do you know?
Like roughly?
I don't know.
Hundreds of millions?
Millions.
Right?
Yeah, a lot.
And what percentage of them actually make a career out of it?
Like how many, can you count them on one hand, right?
I mean, how many?
A lot more.
Really?
Lots of people.
Yeah.
Okay.
Some random kids that don't even stream or make or qualify for the World Cup get a minimum
of $50,000.
Okay.
Yeah, true.
That's kind of like a career, isn't it?
Yeah, I guess $50,000 is about more than average for a year of salary in America.
Yeah.
So a lot of people, I guess, hundreds, thousands.
But you're like on your own tier.
You and Ninja are like a separate tier from pretty much everybody else.
Yeah, I mean, there's bigger streamers than Ninja now.
How do you qualify, what qualifies as a big streamer?
How do you measure that?
Concurrent viewers, subs.
On Twitch?
Yeah.
Okay.
I've been going on and off right now, I do have the most subs on Twitch.
You do right now?
Yeah.
I've had the most average viewers too, but I don't know.
I have been playing in World Cup tournaments that have been boosting me a lot.
I hadn't streamed for like a week and I came back and I was like concurring over $100,000.
So I don't know.
But it's been going good for me, I guess.
Yeah.
When it comes to like tournaments and stuff, people don't decide to watch me.
Yeah.
Because you're the most skilled, you've won the most tournaments, right?
Yeah.
I'm like one of the most hiring players, I guess.
Bizzle, I think, has more than me.
But that's not including charity tournaments or anything like that.
What do you think it is about that game that makes it so popular?
Because I don't remember any kind of game taking over the world like that game did.
Is it the colors?
Is it the Battle Royale element of it?
Well, no, because there's been other Battle Royales before that.
Yeah, but they've all been like really hardcore, if that makes sense.
Okay.
Like PUBG is like super hardcore and slow paced.
And it was really, really unoptimized.
Like, and it wasn't on all platforms either.
Okay.
And the building aspect of it gives you a lot of opportunity to, I don't know.
It's like a whole another dimension.
Yeah.
Like literally.
Like in PUBG, like you loot up, you get caught in the field, you're dead.
Really?
Yeah.
So similar to like Call of Duty.
Kind of, yeah.
But not First Person.
Yeah.
I got it.
I got it.
What's been like the most difficult, what's been the most difficult thing for you being
in the spotlight?
Because I feel like, you know, I mean, it's been a year, but it can't be that easy walking
around everywhere you go, people noticing you, taking photos with you.
What's been the hardest part about that for you?
I don't know.
People trying to take me out.
People trying to take you out.
Yeah.
What do you mean?
People coming after me, dude, hacking me and shit.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You got hacked a lot.
You're getting banned and hacked.
So much shit.
It's more people targeting you.
Yeah.
But like even when you walk through the airport, people walk up to you.
Yeah.
Paparazzi's and stuff.
Something happened at your house?
Oh, a bunch of shit has happened at my house.
Like what?
You're from the beach, jumping the fence.
Yeah.
People come on the property, try to fuck with me, yell at me.
A bunch of shit.
But I got to buy a house soon that has like electric fences.
Yeah.
High voltage.
Yeah.
It's time.
It's time for you to invest in some real estate.
A trench.
Yeah.
A moat.
A giant moat with gators.
Some big gators in it.
That would be fire.
You did just invest in some real estate though, didn't you?
You bought a building?
Yeah.
What's that all about?
What are you doing with it?
I don't know.
I can't really disclose what my plans are.
But something crazy.
Something crazy besides just building a SpongeBob, giant SpongeBob houses in the back.
Building Kibikini Bottom in the back.
Yeah, Jack.
He's fucking crazy.
He's going insane with all that shit.
My brother's always building some random shit.
Sometimes I got to tell him, you know, get off my fucking property.
Get off my property, god damn it.
Dick will just bring a bunch of shit there and just leave it.
A bunch of like laundry machines and garbage.
Really?
There's a few beat cars there now.
Oh my god.
That's why I drove my bus into one of the cars.
You drove your bus into one of the cars?
Yeah.
Nice.
In the parking lot?
Yeah, I was tired of it being there.
So I just ran into it full speed.
What's up with the big fucking pink tee that you painted on the front of it?
Is that just for Tifu?
I don't know.
Or you just haven't finished painting it?
Dick just painted on there because he's fucking weird.
Yeah.
I'm going to paint the whole shit because it looks disgusting.
So I guess once the Fortnite craze is over and I can't expect it to last forever.
Do you have plans for after that or what do you think will happen after that?
Or what are your plans for after that's over?
I don't know.
I mean, it all depends.
I think the main thing that will stop Fortnite from being popular is another game.
And if I like it, I'll play it.
If I don't, then I'll just post vlogs and play any random games and just be a variety streamer.
Like PewDiePie?
Yeah.
Because playing games is competitively stressful and it's time consuming.
And I've been playing competitive for a while, so I don't know.
I'm not going to do it forever, obviously.
Yeah.
Do you see yourself being like 35, 40 years old doing it?
Because right now you basically have a fucking every day you're spending.
I don't see myself playing competitive like that.
My brain is going to be melted by then.
My eyes are going to be fried.
Is it really bad for you to stare at the computer and stare at games that long?
What can happen?
I don't know.
Do you know of anything like crazy shit happening to people from doing that?
Out of their eyes.
I've had a few friends of mine that have tendonitis playing.
Oh, from the mice and the keyboard and stuff?
Yeah.
Did you have a crazy headache in the car today?
Yeah, I still have a headache.
I still feel like shit.
Is that from the screen?
I don't know.
It could be.
It could be.
Better be careful, dude.
They make like computer glasses that you can get.
Yeah.
I mean, the thing is, the thing is like, we don't know because our parents and our older siblings
and stuff, they didn't have kids.
How do you know if it's actually bad?
Yeah.
Dude, you should play it safe.
You should have glasses.
You just don't wear them.
Yeah.
I just fry my brain.
You should wear them, dude.
You should look into getting some glasses to protect yourself.
Don't melt your brain, please.
It already feels melted right now.
When I'm older and my eyes are fried and my brain's fried, dude, they'll shoot some stem cells into my brain or something.
Yeah.
Get some bionic eyeballs.
I heard that playing video games improves cognitive function and vision.
I heard that it improves your vision and actually improves your cognitive skills, too.
Maybe.
Do you know anything about that?
Maybe.
I train my reaction, my tracking every day.
Really?
Yeah.
How do you do that?
I play training games.
Okay.
Just other video games that are just like...
Strictly.
For coordination?
Yeah.
Okay.
Have you ever tried meditating?
No.
My ADHD is probably too bad for me to be able to meditate.
Have you ever heard of flow state?
You know what that is?
Yeah.
When you can meditate and they say that when you focus on being in the moment or when you focus on being present,
people can train themselves to access that flow state or whatever, whenever they want.
They say that gamers actually achieve that more than anybody, like gamers and basketball players.
Michael Jordan used to do group meditations to practice getting into that flow state,
because the whole team is in that state when they're playing or whatever.
It's like you're not thinking about anything.
You're not thinking about the past, the future.
All you're thinking about is...
Your brain is not thinking.
All you're doing is reacting to what's happening in the court, similar to how you...
I'm sure you've experienced that numerous times when everything is going perfect.
Everything is going right in a game.
You can't fuck up anything.
They call it flow state.
They say that meditation can help that.
What if you're trying to figure out what's going to happen in the future?
Then you fuck yourself.
That's when you stifle yourself and you overthink.
That's when people fuck up.
You always got the steps I had especially when playing Fortnite.
Really?
You got to be ready for everything.
How so?
You got to be ready, dude.
You got to think about the future.
You got to think about what could potentially happen,
more so what could potentially go wrong,
because that's probably the possibility that...
Yeah, I guess it's a lot more complicated than Pac-Man in that sense,
because you have to...
It's not just what's happening now.
You got to think about where you're going to end up
and where the other players will be and that kind of shit.
I mean, I could try to meditate.
You should look into it, dude.
It seems like a very hard thing to pick up on.
No, I don't think it's that hard.
You can watch a couple of YouTube videos.
If you go on SoundCloud and you just type in meditation,
there's guided meditation shit you can look at.
It's pretty simple.
Yeah.
I mean, it doesn't sound that easy, but...
It's easy, trust me.
It's easy.
Just fucking close your eyes and meditate real quick.
Yeah.
So, what's up with the whole...
I don't want to talk too much.
I don't want to get into details about your whole drama
that's going on with that eSports shit,
but I've known kind of...
I kind of know what's been going on for the past year,
whatever, and it sucks for both people.
There's a lot of internet drama going on right now.
But...
How are you doing?
I'm doing fine.
I'm just letting my lawyer handle it.
That's good.
Is it true...
Is it true that you want to start an eSports company?
Or an organization?
I never said that once.
I didn't think you did either.
Yeah, I know.
Anybody knows me as they play it.
Right.
I would think someone like you would just be want to focus
on your own brand and what you're doing and nothing else.
The last thing that you would want to do,
I would think was to start a company and try to run a company.
No, hell no.
I don't have time to run a company.
I'm too stupid, dude.
I can't even read a contract.
You don't want me to run an eSports organization.
Yeah, I mean, you obviously were an idiot for signing something.
Yeah, young and naive for doing that.
But I could imagine being in that situation.
You want to fucking join the cool kids.
You're on the rise, you're young, and it's like,
hey, look, you can be like this.
You can do this.
Look at this big mansion.
Look at all these fancy cars.
Look at everything we do.
I am an idiot for signing it.
I'm a complete and total fucking dumbass.
But the bottom line is they shouldn't ever give me
a legal contract to begin with.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, there's a lot of companies that do that, though.
I think it's important to recognize that there are a lot
of companies in L.A., or not even in L.A.,
all over the world that do that, that operate that way.
And it's not necessarily like, sure, there's stuff in the contract
that's morally fucked up or is more favorable towards
the corporation versus the talent.
But I think the most important thing to recognize
is getting someone that's extremely young,
who has no experience, who has never seen a legal document
in their entire lives, to just be like,
hey, do you want to join us?
Just sign here.
It's the same thing with record labels,
like the old record label model.
Like, I told you about that documentary artifact
that Jared Leto made about his band 30 Seconds to Mars.
Yeah, they got sued by their record label for $30 million.
30 Seconds to Mars sued for $30 million.
Because, like, I mean, it's different, though,
because, like, I don't know how e-sports organizations make money.
I don't know shit about e-sports,
but the record label model was, or is, still is,
I don't know if it's changed, but it's like,
we'll give a band or an artist, we'll give you an advance,
say $500,000 or whatever, we're going to pay you $500,000.
Wow.
Now go make an album.
So they make an album, right,
and then they have to go sell X amount of records.
So they say they make $2 million, right?
Okay, now the record label goes,
okay, you made $2 million.
So first, give us back the $500,000,
and then we have all these additional fees
that we charge for like crazy shit,
like, for compact discs that aren't even,
they don't even sell those anymore that I know,
like, and you can't go to Target and buy a CD anymore.
Yeah.
And can you really?
Yeah.
Okay, well.
Yeah, you might be able to, but it's good.
But it's mostly streaming, yeah.
It's, like, mostly digital.
So there's, like, the point is, like,
they would just get these young artists or whatever
to sign these agreements,
and then once they actually got smart and made money,
you don't know about that stuff until you make money.
That's the point.
Like, if you don't have a lot of money,
you have nothing to lose by signing a contract, right?
Exactly.
Once you, I mean, anybody who achieves any level of success
and has a lot of money,
you're concerned about keeping your money and not losing it,
right?
So obviously, you're gonna fucking,
you're never gonna sign something crazy
without having a lawyer read it or whatever.
Yeah, I mean, if you're, whether in the music industry
or the gaming industry, you need your own lawyer,
you need somebody to watch your back,
even if you don't have a lot of money,
or it's a burn a little bit for some legal advice.
Yeah.
I mean, shit.
I'm paying my lawyer a lot, you know.
I bet, dude.
He's a pretty fucking damper, so he's fond of it.
Well, I do hope that, you know,
a lot of people can learn from your experience
and what you went through.
Yeah.
And, you know, even if you're going into something like that
and you don't really have anything to lose,
the chances of you actually, like,
making a shitload of money and becoming really successful,
even though it may be slim.
Yeah.
Once that happens, you're not gonna want to be a part of that contract,
which is why so many bands and so many artists
sue their record labels.
Yeah.
You know, that's why the record of music industry
was kind of slaughtered.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know?
So, yeah, that documentary artifact was pretty insane
and the...
I don't remember exactly, but the...
I think it's the...
One of the executives at FaZe Clan
was the CEO or the president of the record label
that was suing 30 Seconds to Mars in that documentary.
The same fucking guy.
That's crazy.
But I think they ended up getting purchased by somebody,
so he wasn't...
No, it was like another guy from the UK
that came and bought the company out
and went through with the lawsuit.
So, you know, you can kind of...
You can't really blame all the blame on that guy,
but definitely being a part of that industry
and then going into another industry
and trying to copy the model
or kind of have a similar business model.
I don't know if it's exactly the same,
but I mean, you didn't get a big advance
like an artist would.
Yeah, I guess the artists,
I mean, the music industry
has kind of gotten...
I'm not saying it's good now,
but it's gotten a lot better over the years.
Yeah.
So maybe people are getting now going into eSports
because it's early on, you know?
Yeah.
Do you know a lot of...
Are you personally friends with a lot of players
who are signed contracts for eSports teams
or organizations like that?
Yeah, I mean, I have...
Yeah.
Have they reached out to you?
Have you talked to them?
Yeah, I mean, I have kids reaching out to me
that are 14 and 15 years old.
Really?
That are like, dude, help me get out of my contract.
I'm stuck in there.
They don't even care about me.
They're trying to just get me to qualify for a World Cup
because they're sure getting scammed since then.
What do you say to them?
I don't know.
I have too much going on.
I can't really help them.
Yeah.
Hopefully my situation brings light to kids like that.
But I don't know.
It's a whole fucked up situation.
Yeah.
I have kids.
Yeah.
Well, hopefully this can shine some light
in some dark areas
and help a lot of people.
Yeah.
A lot of illegal activity going on in the eSports world.
Yeah.
But hopefully that comes to an end soon.
Yeah.
What's the next?
Like, what are you doing next?
Are you...
I heard you said you were going to New Jersey
because there's better internet.
Yeah.
I mean...
Is that true?
Yeah.
The Fortnite server is in like Northern Virginia.
I'm in Florida.
So my connection is terrible.
I'm at extreme disadvantage.
So I gotta do...
Are you actually moving there or moving there?
Or are you just going there for a few days?
Well, my teammate Cloakes has a house in Jersey.
So I spent about $5,000 on audio equipment
and gaming equipment.
I hit up Digital Storm, told him to send me a few computers.
So I'm just going to have it set up there.
I want to play with a low ping advantage.
I just can't go to Jersey whenever I want.
So...
Wow.
So like when there's tournament...
Big tournaments, whatever you go there.
Yeah, online tournaments.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the servers are there?
Like the Fortnite...
The servers are like Ohio and they're in like Virginia.
Okay.
West Coast, yeah.
So the closer you are, the faster the connection.
The better you can build.
The faster you can build, the faster you can edit.
The more walls you can take.
Sweet, dude.
Well, what do you think of my setup?
Do you think I'm doing it right?
Do you have any suggestions for me now that I'm actually streaming this shit live on the internet?
Like, I need some guidance from the goat of streaming.
I mean, you got like a mom's basement type vibe.
A what?
You got like a mom's basement beat ass fucking vibe.
I was going for like the Motel 6.
Yeah.
With the Michelangelo.
It kind of almost looks like a shitty lawyer's office.
It's a long story.
So Ben...
What is this crystal right here, dude?
It's a salt rock.
It just makes it look cool.
Why is it so heavy, dude?
It's not that heavy, is it?
It's pretty fucking heavy, dude.
It gives you...
Yeah, it's supposed to give you good energy and it looks cool on the table and it covers
this little hole back here.
It might as well have a headache, dude.
Your headache's still there?
I thought this like dim lighting would help.
You got a disco ball up there, too?
No.
Do you like the line or no?
Ben, I got it from Ben.
I took it from Ben's house.
He let me take it.
Of course, Ben's the type of guy to have a stuffed line in his house.
He's got like six of those things.
Jesus.
He literally went to an auction and paid like $10,000 for these fucking lions.
I don't have a real line that sleeps in my bed.
Like Mike Tyson?
Yeah.
Be my best friend until he tries to eat me.
Yeah.
He killed my best friend.
Everybody that watches this thing right now, I'm kind of like fucked because they all
only care about seeing Ben like run his mouth and talk about real estate and business.
And when it's ever, it's like me and somebody else or me and somebody that I think is cool
or interesting, they don't care.
They just like tell me to die and eat shit and they only want to see Ben.
What would you say?
How do you recommend I deal with those kind of people?
Just tell them they're fucking pussy.
They're all pussies.
Yeah.
You guys are all pussies.
All the people that are hating on.
People, usually when people hate on me, I just ban them.
Do you?
Or my viewers just fucking all roast.
Can I ban people on there?
On YouTube?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Dude, ban all the people hating.
I don't know if you've got to be enough following to certain banning people, dude.
Oh yeah, I have like a certain like.
Maybe the only following you got is haters, so you can't ban them.
You got to keep them.
Oh, you're right.
All the haters, I'll have nobody left.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Ben is like my fortnight.
Like I rode that wave to like, to like somewhat success.
And now I have like, like a decent amount of viewership on here.
And as soon as like, if I ever stop like recording shit with Ben, then I'll just be dead.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If I start recording shit with for that, I'm just dead.
No, that won't happen.
You're on a way too high level.
What happened, dude?
Worst case scenario, start.
Sex tape.
Yeah.
You're going to do a sex tape?
Me and you later.
Yeah.
We can do that.
Hell yeah.
Your girl Karina can film it.
Did I say that right?
Karina?
How do you say it?
Try again.
Karina?
Yeah.
Karina.
So like a, okay, the I is different.
Karina, Karina.
Where is that from?
German.
Head.
That's pretty cool.
What a weird coincidence.
Well, thanks for giving me your time.
And I'm sure I'm going to get a lot of new viewers because of you.
And it was great just to have the.
The elongating my headache, dude.
You're welcome.
I'm happy that we got to do the follow up to the first video that we did.
Yeah.
We kind of get to talk.
Talk in a year.
Yeah.
It's been one year.
We'll do a follow up in another year.
See what's going on.
All right, dude.
I'm going to get out of here, dude.
You can enjoy your salt rock.
I'll enjoy my salt rock in my line.
Sweet.
Thanks again, dude.
All right.
We're good.
We're fall.
Later, everybody.
Yeah.
