Awesome. Thanks for doing this podcast, Patrick. Thank you, Daniel. It's a pleasure to be here,
man. Thanks for having me. Absolutely. So for everyone out there who may not be familiar,
just can you give me a brief set up to who you are and what you do? Sure, man. Well,
my name is Patrick Lovell and I have been a television producer, film producer,
producer of media for a long time, over a couple of decades. I started off in LA working in
Hollywood and then I ended up doing television projects. I became an action sports producer,
to be honest with you, and then I did a bunch of entertainment stuff. And then I became a
television producer on a nationally syndicated television show Giving Away Houses all over
the country. And that was in 2006 and 2007. And that was my entry to why we're talking.
So what were you doing as a sports producer? Oh, I've done everything from football to
professional sports to, you know, extreme skiing, snowboarding, mountain climbing,
mountain biking, all that sort of stuff, Red Bull type stuff.
Your documentary, have you, I don't, you haven't released this documentary series yet.
It's called The Con. How did you get interested? What lit the flame for you?
And started your interest in the 2008 financial crisis and basically what inspired you to make
this thing? I got buried. So I was living the one-on-one version of the American dream. Like I
said, I've been a producer for some time and I was relatively successful. And I was literally
giving away houses as a senior producer on a show that we had about 40 people working for us and
traveling all over the country telling really good stories. It was kind of like a home makeover
show. It wasn't my cup of tea. Like I've been writing scripts and wanting to produce big Hollywood
action blockbusters forever. So, you know, I could take it or leave it, but it was, it was a really
cool experience because it got to connect with a lot of great people around the country. And
oddly enough, I was always scratching my head because it wasn't like a normal
home makeover show. I mean, what it was was a front for mortgage lending. The people that were
the executive producers of the show back then, and we're talking circa 2006-78, there were a huge
commercial real estate developer and residential developer out of Seattle. They had projects all
over the United States. These guys were flying around in G5s one day all over the world, you know,
so much money and major headspin. And then all of a sudden in September, I wouldn't say September,
it was more like July of 2007 when our show was really off and running, these guys go bankrupt
overnight. On the show, we were like, what the hell was that? That doesn't make any sense.
And so I go from, you know, being in my first house, I've got a young family at the time,
I'm married, my son is, you know, very young at the time. And I got into my first house,
I was making good money, you know, I basically at the time, and I'm quite a bit older than you,
but at that time, you could go to the bars, man, and you'd meet up and hang out with people that
were freaking flipping houses like crazy. Everybody had money, everybody was blowing cake, like it was
like no tomorrow, right? And so everybody's living high on the hog. And then the next thing you know,
suddenly the wheels fall off. And I'm like, what the heck just happened? Now, I'm a producer,
I'm a business guy, I know contract law, I know how things are done, I'm not a chum.
But yet suddenly I'm in this situation where it's like, nothing makes sense. Honestly,
the media didn't make sense. The stuff that was happening in government at the time didn't make
sense. We had just transitioned from Bush to Obama. He rides this personal mandate wave from
the people to create a new beginning, because the wheels just fell off the economy. And the stuff
that was coming out of the White House at the time, and the stuff that I was dealing with
in the aftermath of the 2008 collapse, didn't speak to my experience. And so as a producer,
and somebody who's been, you know, I've been into watching great detective films my whole life,
I mean, I guess I was a product of the Oliver Stone generation, Martin Scorsese, that sort of thing.
And so, you know, nothing would really surprise us coming out of that era, right? I mean, we grew
up with like Pablo freaking Escobar in Colombia and Contragate, and you name it. So we knew crazy
stuff was happening or could happen. But yet, I think we thought at the time that particularly,
well, growing up in that time period, that the long arm of the law would always catch up with
wrongdoing. I mean, that was just kind of the idea of America, right? We knew there's criminals,
and we knew that there would be consequences. Well, coming from that sort of background,
it would never occur to me in the great financial crisis what actually happened. And so ultimately,
the reason I teed up that way is because when shit hit the fan in my life, collapsed, and I was
basically spit out of a cannon into a desert with my family on my back and nowhere to turn,
because you could not make money at that time. Money just evaporated, right? And so I started
going through this foreclosure crisis, and I'm like, all right, nothing makes sense. I got to
figure out what's going on. And long story short, I got lucky enough to put a project together with
some very, very important people and people that have become my family. And that put in motion
basically what became a nine-year journey to discover the biggest gargantuan mammoth conspiracy
lie of all time, and we're right in the middle of it. So at that time, were you a victim of
this predatory lending that was going on? Oh, for sure. But I wouldn't at that time ever admit to
it because I didn't know what predatory lending was. So I know you've got some fluency, right?
Well, I think you talked to a guy who was a mortgage broker and a lender who went to prison,
I believe, if I read the thumbnail correctly, for quite a bit of time or at least he was sentenced
to quite a bit of time. So you probably have a pretty good understanding of what was happening
on the lending side, all of the different types of products. He was a mortgage lender,
and he eventually got sentenced to 26 years and ended up only doing 12. Okay. What did you learn
from that? Well, basically, what he did was he did a lot of what was talked about in the
documentary, like he was falsifying bank statements, people's income, and he did that,
he started working by working at the bank, learning, you know, from his co-workers that,
hey, you want to close this loan, you want a couple grand, this is how you do it. So then
for the fees. Exactly. Yep. And then so he eventually branched out, he saw the opportunity
in it. And so he started doing it himself with houses. There you go. So he started basically
creating fake people and giving mortgages with fake identities.
Yes, we're very unfortunately aware of that. So yeah, that's the extent that I'm aware.
Okay. So you saw, I believe, our pilot episode, correct? Yes. Okay. So were you surprised by some
of the things that you saw unfold in that? Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of stuff I wasn't aware of,
like I wasn't aware of the fact that there was these lenders walking around neighborhoods knocking
on doors, trying to basically sell them these fake mortgages or basically convince them to
refinance their house for triple what it was worth. And I didn't know they were doing that,
you know, walking through the inner cities of Ohio, preying on the low income people of those
cities. Yes, that's where the whole thing begins. All right. And it's been going on for a very long
time. So I'll pick up there because you're familiar with what that story is. And I'll
try to Yeah, I think it would be good to do this sort of like in a timeline. So I think that was
the beginning of it. So what year was that? Well, the way we open episode one, which is our pilot
episode, it is through the horrific tragic story of an elderly African American woman by the name
of Addie Polk. At the time, she was 91 years old. She had lived in her home for over four decades.
And right at the height of the crash, right in September of 2008, the sheriff's department,
it's sent out like they do. And you saw this like crazy in Florida, of course, they send out,
you know, their officers to basically evict people from their homes, right? Because
they didn't pay their mortgage, there's a foreclosure action, they've got to leave, right?
The property is going to get pulled back into the bank, right? So in her case, prior to that,
she was informing the people that were leaving the notices of foreclosure, she called them and
you got to imagine she's an elderly woman, right? And she's saying, I own my house.
How is this possible that someone's trying to just didn't make any sense to her? But she didn't
have somebody she could go to or an attorney or she didn't have the capacity to just like
up and like figure out or quite frankly, the resources to, you know, go into the court system
and challenge what was happening. And even if she did, as we know from what happened in Florida,
she would have been overwhelmed by it no matter what. But so as the sheriff came to evict her,
facing homelessness at the age of 91, especially after she was being evicted from a home that she
lived in for decades, that she and her husband were able to purchase an own outright because,
you know, another tragic part of the story is that as we all know, African Americans in this
country have been fighting a massive, massive uphill battle really from the beginning. And
part and parcel to that was after the Civil War, we get in reconstruction, which leads to Jim Crow.
And a lot of people, a lot of African Americans from the agrarian Southeast, particularly,
relocated to the mass exodus to the Midwest, because in the wake of World War II, we had
industrialization in the factories needed workers. So they hired African Americans to replace the GIs
that were fighting in World War II. And so Addie and her husband, Robert, were a part of that
migration. And as a result, he worked his, you know, life to the bone, two jobs apiece to provide
for his wife. They were regular churchgoers, like most people in the African community of that era,
specifically from the South. They always lived within like walking distance of their church.
And so here's a woman of faith, a woman of incredible dignity. And she and her husband
literally put their, their life into that home, which for anyone who knows African Americans know
that when they got a home that they owned, it was a great source of pride and achievement. And
this is who Addie Polk was. And then suddenly she's in this situation where she's being
physically evicted from her home and she apparently doesn't know why. And now that might be hard for
people to believe, right? But it's not hard to believe for someone like you who knows a guy who's
doing a lot of document, documentation and all the things you just profess, because that's also
known as straw buying. And I'll get into that in a minute, but with face with this ultimate tragedy,
poor Addie Polk, man, she, she pulled a gun out her husband's gun and shot herself in the chest
five times. Unbelievably, it didn't kill her immediately. She died six months later from
complications of those wounds. And as, and she died. And so my partner and I, my partners and I,
we had already, because of the length of time it took to put this thing together, like, yes,
how did I come to it? Well, I lost my home and I'm not a chump. I knew something was wrong.
Nothing was adding up based on what media was saying, what government was saying and what my
experience was. And I'm like, I got to figure out what, what's going on here. Now, for a lot of
folks that probably are listening to you in Florida, many people either themselves went through this
process or they knew somebody and a lot of people out of Florida became what we call pro se litigants.
And pro se litigants are people that are pretty smart and have been played and they're going to
figure out why and how they got played and they go through the court system representing themselves.
And a lot of these people ended up learning just about everything you can know from the system
without having a lot of resources, right? So I ended up kind of being like that in a sense,
but I'm a producer. I couldn't do that as a part-time job to save my life. I mean, these people,
to understand the stuff, you kind of have to get a masters in criminology. You literally have to
recontextualize your entire life. You got to understand policy. You got to understand judicial
procedure. You got to understand real estate law. You got to understand all of these variables that
you never had any idea. But what happens in what's common in these cases is that people,
when they get fucked, they want to find out how they got fucked. Many people roll over and die,
but other people don't stop. They're like insatiable until they get the answer. I'm one of those people.
So I started reading articles like you couldn't believe. I read like insatiably anyway, but
at this time period, I'm reading everything in the media that I can get my hands on. There's a
couple of writers that make more sense than others that begin to start making a lot more sense of
this as time's going on. And I was able to finally go, okay, look, some of these people are putting
up whistleblowers from different parts of the industry that I know are telling different parts
of a complete story. And I can't get the complete story. So as a producer and investigative journalist,
I want to go find out what the hell it is. So I did. And we figured it out. In one thing led
to another. And my partner discovered the story of Addy. And that's where this picks up again.
So as he was doing the investigation, and we were calling people to get on camera,
because to do a television program, of course, and you've seen this all the time on Netflix and
Showtime and so forth, you have what's known as reenactments. And you want to recreate
cinematically the situation. And we reached out to the sheriff that arrived to foreclose on Addy's
home at the very beginning. And he didn't want to be on camera. According to him, he had already
told the story. He didn't want to go there again. He was tired. He was over it. And because I have a
very tenacious associate producer, we knocked on this guy's door until we finally answered.
And we talked him in to going on camera. Well, as a result of him agreeing to go on camera,
and just all we needed him for was to say, I arrived at X time. This is what she did. This is
what I heard. You know, just to get the facts, right? And we were going to build the recreates
around that. Well, as we finished the interview, the guy's taken off his, I'll never forget this
as long as I live. It's like a straight out of a, I don't know if you've ever seen Motherless Brooklyn
or any of those kind of great noir type of, you know, active films. I mean, I love, I love those.
And it was a moment like that for me. This guy, Don Fathery, who was a sheriff, he pulls off his
microphone and he looks at me and he says, there's some people I want you to talk to. And as it turns
out, he puts me in contact with another sheriff who's in charge of Summit County, Ohio, which is
Akron, Northeast Ohio near Cleveland, Ohio, where LeBron James is from, actually. And as it turns
out, LeBron James grew up like 300 feet from where all of this stuff took place. Really? Yeah. Yeah,
pretty amazing. And he doesn't know about this. Hopefully one day we can, we can turn him on
to it because I think he'd be pretty shocked. But so as this door opens from this tragedy from
Addy Polk, it leads a smack dab to the Summit County Task Force. And the Summit County Task Force had
put together an investigation to where they were able to deconstruct, as you do as investigators,
what was going on in the area. And as a result, they were able to find the head of a smaller
version of what was happening nationally. And they were able to put together a case that they
did under RICO statutes. Now, the reason that's crazy is because my colleague, Eric Vaughn,
is the director of our program. He always said to me, Patrick, why didn't the feds prosecute
under RICO statutes? That was a question that we had for three years prior to finding Addy Polk.
And we're like, what the hell? So here we are. We backdoored into this revelation that, yes,
indeed, you were supposed to prosecute this. You could have prosecuted this a number of ways,
but one of which was RICO. They put the bad guy in jail and the question then comes, well,
why didn't that happen at the higher levels of Wall Street? And if the AG in this Task Force
in Ohio can put the exact same ingredients together, why didn't that happen for the CEO of
Chase, the CEO of Goldman, the CEO, because they were all in on this, right? So that led to further
investigations. And then ultimately, we realized this was the only RICO conviction in the United
States. And so from what I understand, or at least from what I understand, that it's the only
RICO conviction in the United States. So through this incredible tragedy of an elderly African
American woman, she literally personifies the whole fucking story in a microcosm that led to the
revelation of what should have taken place. And so you've heard many people over and over, and you
know this probably better than everybody. Everybody in this country knows the system is rigged.
Everybody knows it's corrupt. But nobody knows who did what, when, and how, and what they got
away with, and who covered it up, right? So think about this like this. There's a difference between
common knowledge, like I just said, and specific knowledge. So let's say you've got a hunch that
your wife is cheating. The way you handle it is going to be much different if you have evidence of
that, right? It's going on your gut, right? Well, that's the whole reason we have crime in law and
order is because you investigate these things, you get the facts, and then you prosecute. So
let's put this in perspective. You've got regulatory agencies around the country,
like the Office of the Comptroller of the Courts, they're supposed to regulate the banks,
especially the federal banks. You've got, I'll save you all the details in terms of what the
alphabet soup of the acronyms of these agencies are, but their job is to prevent what took place,
right? Then you've got the FBI. You've also got the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Securities and Exchange Commission was born out of the Great Depression. The Great Depression
created what was known as the PCOR hearing by FDR, who put a crack Italian immigrant who was a
prosecutor in Manhattan who didn't know finance, but he understood the mob. And so FDR puts this
guy in Congress to find out what Wall Street did to create the Great Depression. And as a result of
that, everybody was, I mean, we got footage and you'll see this in later episodes, but America,
literally, descended on Congress. And we're like, what the pitchfork's like, you fucking do this
right or you're dead. And that was what was going on then. And think about World War II. What happened
outside of the United States? Well, a lot of countries went to communism. A lot of countries
went to fascism. We went to law and order. That's how we got the American dream. And we got the
greatest resurgence of a middle class in the history of the world, right? Because that's the
nature of what happens when you have the law and integrity of law in honesty that runs business.
In the vacuum of that, you have absolute disorder, chaos and criminality. So you can probably see
where I'm going. But ultimately, what we reveal on this crazy journey is that you don't live in
the country that you thought you lived in. Wow. Yeah, it's almost, it's, to me, it seems like
it was a situation that we hadn't really seen before as a country. Right? I mean, typically,
we're used to dealing with people with, as far as criminals are concerned, we had the war on
drugs. We're dealing with drug dealers, people with guns who are killing people, but not these
people wearing suits, running these banks on Wall Street. Although, let me give you an example
of how crazy this is to you, right? So, like I just gave you that historical setting about the
PCOR hearing. Right. And PCOR got us five decades of relative stability in finance, but in the 80s,
we started having a lot of problems. And one of which was called the savings alone crisis.
And as it turns out, the 2008 great financial crisis was literally the third act of the SNL
crisis. So we went from SNL crisis to the Enron era frauds. You ever hear Enron? Yes. Yes. So Enron
was another variation of this. And then there was a lot of stuff in between. We had the dot-com bubble.
So basically, since the late, well, sorry, going back to the 80s, quite frankly, we had,
you ever hear of Michael Milken? Do you ever hear of, okay, so have you ever heard of junk bonds?
Yes, I have heard of junk bonds. So Michael Milken was known as the junk bond king. And he
actually got prosecuted under RICO statutes back in the day because he was doing a similar situation
of what I just laid out for you. And we haven't gone into details. But Milken was this top guy
in finance. Everybody was like kissing the ring because this guy figured out all these mammoth
ways to make gazillions of dollars in ways that nobody could put their fingers on. But he was
giving incredible returns for investors. And it was the 80s, the go-go 80s. And so there was a
lot of Wall Street people making a lot of money. As it turns out, it's based on a lot of deception
and a lot of Ponzi scheming. And so Milken, and it all works until it doesn't because it's always
a bubble. Basically, the facade is it works, but it's all fiction. So just like if you and I go
and we're going to go sell, I don't know, let's just fucking, we'll say we're just going to go sell
dope. But we're not selling the real thing, right? And we're selling securities on it. We can't keep
up with it. That's by the way what happened in the Great Depression with all sorts of securities
from around the world. The long and the short of it is that finance, if it doesn't have rules and
regulations, if it doesn't have people that are policing and you're dealing with big, big, big
time money and very, very smart people, they will unleash catastrophe. They do it all the time.
And if you don't have the law bringing them in, then or accountability, you just wind up with
corruption. So that's all this stuff is, is absolute corruption.
Well, does it make it harder to deal with the fact that these people do have so much money and power
and they are so much smarter that the people dealing with this stuff maybe aren't as competent
or don't have the resources? I think it's just courage. It's certainly not the other because I
can tell you, so I'm not a rocket scientist. If I could figure this out, anybody could figure this
out. I just happen to have a lot of tenacity. And so I always believe in the rule that makes
sense. You got to have an understanding of how things work. If I want to understand my car,
I understand the engine, I read the fricking owner's manual. If I want to fly in an airplane,
I understand all the forces of what it takes to enable flight. Now, this is all surface level
understanding. I'm not going to know how the bits and pieces come together in the electronic
engineering and the rest of it, but I'll know the basics. And so if it doesn't add up, especially,
let me give you a metaphor. Let's say I'm on a plane crash, and it goes down and I somehow
survive it. I might want to know what caused that plane crash. We've known this forever.
Absolute power corrupts absolutely. So what we found were there were heroes at every step
of the way. So not only did we find all the people that came on camera with us that are
similar to the guy that you've had on that told you how the whole system worked from his trade.
We did that with the lenders, with the appraisers, with the upstream people, with the
credit rating agencies and so forth. We deconstruct this whole thing and make it such that you can
follow this because it's a true crime. One thing that American audiences love are crime stories.
That's all this is. It's a street crime, but it's a ginormous street crime with millions of actors
involved. And it literally is. And this is not hyperbole. It is the largest criminal conspiracy
and cover-up in the history of the world. What was happening when basically we realized that
there was all these loans and people had made all this money propping up their banks or the
CEOs propping up their banks on all the profit they were making, what did it take for it to crumble?
What was the straw that broke the camel's back? That's an easy one. And we actually just went
through it again in September of 2019. But ironically, the world didn't know about it,
and it got papered over because of COVID. And that's part of the story too. Back then, it was the run
on overnight lending, which is called repo loans. So the way it works with the investment banks is
that everybody's borrowing money overnight. And we're talking trillions of dollars a day.
So Goldman might borrow from another investment bank, who borrows from another investment bank,
and everybody's borrowing against the asset value. The asset value in the case of mortgage
backed securities was determined on basically what we call the market players, marked to market.
So you've got these tranches, which are made up of gazillions of loans that supposedly have some
sort of street market value. And that's what they sell them to pension funds and other institutional
investors in other countries, China, Russia, whatever. And we're talking trillions of dollars
based on, quite frankly, consumption of Americans. And so at the central aspect of consumption of
the American enterprise is the home. So nobody ever thought around the world, they thought it
was a great investment. There was $70 trillion around the world looking for investment. And
they sunk it in American homes. But what we didn't realize was simultaneously we killed
the golden goose, right? So if you're going to have value for anything, right? If you're going to
give a loan to somebody, and I'm sure your broker mentioned this to you, typically the idea is that
you want to make sure that that person has the capacity to pay that loan back. Because you're
investing in that person over the course of 30 years to make your money back. Well, that's the
way the system used to work. That's not the way the system works now. What happened was you get
these warehouse lines from Wall Street, there were pumping hundreds of millions of dollars
to what we call pretender lenders. They were companies that look legitimate, but they were
just fraud shops. They were AmeriQuest, Countrywide, Greenpoint, whole potpourri of these companies
that weren't really banks. They didn't have any assets. They just were selling these mythical
loans that they were packaging up, giving them up to Wall Street. And Wall Street was selling
them to institutional investors. And then they were selling them and slicing them and dicing
them into complicated derivatives and financial instruments. And so for example, in late 1998,
on the upside of this, we had a derivatives market globally of $13 trillion. By the time we get to
the great financial crisis, the bubble was at $600 trillion in the derivatives market. So you said,
what happens when the whole thing goes sideways? Well, here's what's so crazy about it. Everybody
in the food chain, but most notably the CEOs, who knew this whole thing was happening the way it
was happening. And by the way, they're breaking the law every step of the way. They're felonies
every step of the way. In fact, the most massive felonies in the history of the world. And ultimately,
the CEOs, they create this kind of bubble of plausible deniability. Well, simultaneously,
they create this thing called Gresham's Dynamic, which is basically using perverse incentives
to get people to do the stuff that you were talking about, basically cheat as much as possible
and make it look real. So they were packaging all of these securities and they were selling it to
investors with the stamp of approval, with the credibility of a Goldman Sachs, of a chase,
of a city. These financial institutions that are the largest financial institutions in the world,
you would never in a million years with all of their Ivy League graduates, with all of their
top-notch attorneys, legal mind scholars, accountants, all the rest of the professional
class. There'd be no way in hell you could ever imagine that armada of professionals would ever
be involved with a criminal enterprise. But that's exactly what happened because of perverse
incentives. If you didn't play ball, if you didn't look the other way, if you didn't rubber stand,
you were out of there. And that's how they play the Gresham's Dynamic. And it was all
based on short-term, short-term, short-term. And ultimately, they loaded this on the world and
we know what they did. They go meet with Hank Paulson. Hank Paulson was the CEO of Goldman Sachs,
turned secretary treasury under the Bush administration. And just so you know before
that, Robert Rubin was the CEO of Goldman Sachs and he was the secretary treasury of the Clinton
administration. So as you can see, Goldman's there no matter who the administration is, right?
And that goes down for BlackRock and others because they own the system and they are the
power behind the power. But ultimately, what happened was the whole thing crashes. And so
Paulson meets with 13 of the biggest bankers in the country and he says, look, I'm going to give
you a three-page document. You're going to sign this document and you're going to let me take
care of this. Keep your mouth shut. Don't worry about it. You know, what it basically said was
we're not going to come after you. Do what we tell you and we'll take care of you. And what
ultimately happened was that they came out in Congress with the TARP plan. It was the
Trouble Assets Relief Program under the Bush administration and then we ended up with Obama
in the White House and he had another stimulus. And that was $750 billion. So the rest of the
world thinks that Wall Street got these emergency loans and the government invested in Wall Street
and they got paid back with interest. That's the way the story goes. That's not the story.
Wall Street used the bazooka of the Federal Reserve to put $29 trillion into the financial
system. $29 trillion into the hands of the people that just collapsed the global economy.
And now here we are again. Wow. And yet in the media, which I found so interesting,
is that it seemed like so many news channels of people in the media were blaming the people that
owned the houses that we're getting foreclosed on, saying that maybe you should have graduated from
high school so you could have earned more money. Maybe you shouldn't have had so many kids,
then you'd be able to afford to pay your mortgage. Now we're supposed to feel bad for you because
you're out in the street. It's your fault. Yeah. That's called blaming the victim or maybe some
people might call it slut shaming, right? Yeah. Yeah. In this particular case, let's just kind of
look at common sense. So with a bunch of people with a high school degree, be able to pull the
biggest caper on the smartest people in the world. Right. Right. I see what you're saying.
Don't. Yeah. Yeah. Addie Polk, a woman. I mean, plus she was 91. I mean,
yeah, they're the ones, they're the ones who came up with this incredible freaking
complicated, you know, it's complicated to a point, but it's not that complicated. It's certainly,
like I said, not rocket science. It's just when you understand what happens at every step of the
way, you can manipulate it and you can do document fabrication. You can do all these things because
they're incentivized to do it. And if there's no accountability, are they going to stop?
Of course not. That's how they're getting paid. Right. You got these young, aggressive people who
are just are hustling their asses off, trying to make these short commissions and they don't
give a fuck whose lives they ruin, even if it's a 90 year old widow. They don't even think about it
because what they'd say is it's my job. And by the way, I got the Porsche and I got the front row
at the fricking Orlando magic gamer. I'm going to go see Brady next year. Okay, great dude,
you're successful. That's what's sickening about this whole thing. It's like, you know, I think a
success as people who earn it, right? People who do good work and they bring some sort of value to
society. Not somebody that spent 24 hours a day learning how to lie, steal and chill. I get that
right, lie, cheat and steal. Yeah. That's what they are, dude. And that's what they got away with,
you know, but at the end of the day, though, I mean, as bad off as those guys are,
they were, they were in the system, man. And the system was designed the way the system was
designed. You got to look up top and just like with the mob, you got to roll the lower guys to
get to the top guys. And that's what never happened. Yeah, it's the same thing with that.
It's the same thing with the mob is the same thing with the war on drugs. And well, I mean,
there's something to be said with lenders in general, to be lazy or like not do their due
diligence on a home, right? It's one thing to say that, okay, we had an appraiser go out,
appraise your house, we looked at your income statements. Okay, this makes sense. It could
easily be that they didn't go out to the house and look at it themselves and walk inside and look at
it. It's, it's all, it's all paper, right? The person at the top of that lending company or the
bank. It's actually digitized now, too. Right. More scary because they can, they can cover up
their tracks even better now than they did then. Right. So it's, it could be fair to say that in
a situation, I'm not saying that in a big conspiracy that that's what happened, but
it's could just have been laziness or someone not doing their due diligence
for this to happen, right? For them to loan way more money on a house than what it's actually
worth. So that's part of it. They called the yield spread premium. See, they were actually
incentivized to put people in the worst loans possible. Now it just so happens that they hired
guys straight out of working at Burger King the year before because a guy that came out of Burger
King, for example, and this is not a slight against somebody who came out of Burger King,
my God, if you work yourself up through fast, we've got bless you, right? But what happened with
the incentive was that somebody who was making 18,000 a year working their ass off would walk
into a deal like this and make $20,000 on one deal. Right. So if you could like dangle the
carrot to like lie, steal and cheat and incentivize a little help, they found the right guys to do it
and they did it over and over and over and they did that every level of the system. So again,
there's stop gaps and everything that we have in the housing market, just like you have stop gaps
when you design an aircraft. So imagine if you're designing an aircraft that you want to make sure
that certain parts of it are going to fail because you're going to sell everything on the cheap
packaging and then in the end, you're going to bet against it and you're going to collect on the
insurance when it crashes. Right. So these smaller banks or yeah, so these smaller banks were basically
fucking over the borrowers and packaging up the loans and selling them to companies like
Chase and Goldman Sachs. Now did the people at the top of those companies like Chase and
Goldman Sachs necessarily know exactly what was going on with all the way downstream?
Well, let me just ask you kind of a rhetorical question. I don't mean it to be a smart ass,
but I do want your honest answer. If you're good enough to pilot a multi trillion dollar
you know, company, aren't you paid to do and know everything that's going on? Isn't that why
you get paid the big bucks? I would hope so. So here's what you need to understand about
control fraud and that's what this whole thing is. And by the way, I know it's control fraud
because I was taught by the master of control fraud who got 30,000 criminal referrals and
the savings alone crisis that led to over a thousand convictions of high level white
color criminals and the savings alone crisis. His name is William K. Black.
What is control fraud for people out there? So people that are high executives,
they want the sure thing, which is short term. They're incentivized through previous incentives
on the next quarter. It's all bonus structure. They need volume and make their money on the
volume of loans, not on the right loans, but on the volume of loans. So ultimately it was
predicated on getting bad loans. So did they know, oh yeah, how do I know that? Well, we've got,
you're going to have to watch the series and see because we got it everywhere.
So like I said, who knew who did what went and how and what they got away with. That's what we've
got. What was the main thing that happened next? Well, we just get to the collapse season two is
what happens after, and that's a whole nother ball of wax. So basically really, like I think I
may have mentioned this earlier, but the great financial crisis of 2008 was the third act of
the savings alone crisis, which happened in the early nineties. These are all financial
frauds. Same with the Enron, same with what's going on. And it happens because we had the three D's
that basically became policy deregulation, D supervision and decriminalization. What happens
if you take the cops off the beat? Sorry, if you take the cops off, what?
If you take the cops off the beat, what happens?
It just goes crazy and people just do whatever they want.
Criminals take over. Right.
So all Mr. Lawn order people that are like, yeah, great in Portland and on market. You got the
commander in chief, by the way, get a loan to this. You know what, would it be safe to say you
understand predatory lending through the, yeah, absolutely. Well, but also through the vessel
of added poke, right? I mean, it's pretty clear she's a victim of predatory lending given the
outcome. Yeah. Guess who else claimed to be a victim of predatory lending?
You're not going to say Donald Trump, are you?
I'm going to say Donald Trump. So he sued Deutsche Bank in 2012. The only bank in the world that
would give him any loans at being a victim of predatory lending and he won, or at least he
was able to push it off until they got a settlement. But that's all in between everything else that's
going on. Yes. Donald J. Trump was a victim of predatory lending.
On what? What was he? What was that? When was this?
2012.
2012.
Yeah. You want to look at a book that David Einrich of the New York Times or it's called Dark Towers.
You know, he was out on the circuit not long ago, this guy, David Einrich, because, you know,
all the people, like particularly the MSNs, MSNBCs of the world, wanted to interview him because it
was off the heels of all the stuff that Trump's been involved with, you know, Russia and whatever
else. And so they wanted to connect, you know, him to Deutsche Bank. But when I read the book, I was
like, wow, this guy Einrich told the story that Deutsche Bank was the same player in the story
that we're telling. And that was the big drift. So he spends three quarters of the book telling
the story that I just told you, but from the vantage of Deutsche Bank, because that's what
City Bank was doing. That's what Chase is doing. That's what Goldman Sachs is doing. That's what
Wells Fargo is doing in Bank of America and Deutsche Bank. Right. And so he goes in this,
in this, in this thing, like three quarters in the book, he reveals that my jaw hit the floor.
I literally fell out of the fricking chair when I was reading this, that Donald Trump sued Deutsche
Bank for being a victim of predatory lending. I'm like, yeah, that makes sense. Oh my God.
That is fucking mind boggling. Yeah, it's, it's dude. It's fucking same as it ever was,
really. I mean, I'm reminded, dude, I'm reminded like I grew up in the 70s and the 80s. And there
was this, there was this crazy cartoon, this animation called Heavy Metal. And you can see it
online. There's this guy who goes to the Center Galactics. It's like this total rock and roll
in his new tripper film. But there's this character who goes and he's like this corrupt guy who's
got this like patsy to like, you know, go into court and just lie on his behalf. And every time I
see that, or I think about, you know, like Trump and the way this system operates,
you know, the animators of Heavy Metal knew these kinds of clowns back in the 70s.
It's like one of the lines was, yeah, you know, he sold dump, he sold dope disguised as a nun.
And I'm thinking about all of these guys are just off the Richter, you know, in terms of
their immorality and their, their ability to deceive. And it's just insanity, man.
Yeah. It's the same thing with the Simpsons. They were able to predict a bunch of shit that's
been happening. Yes. Most notably the Simpsons. I've been paying attention to those guys for a
long time. So what's happening today? I mean, is there, do you see anything else happening or any
sort of residual effects of that going on in the financial world today? It's the same thing. So
they doubled down, but they just turned it into commercial loans. And the commercial loan market
crashed with all the same ingredients in September and they papered it over with 11,
well, $7 trillion in repo loans from the Federal Reserve that nobody in media had a clue about
because they were talking about Trump and Russia the whole time. Meanwhile, once again, the Ponzi
scheme continues. And now we've got the CARES Act and we've got all the stuff where literally 30
million people are predicted to be out of their homes and into the streets because of the rental
crash. And by the way, a lot of these people are renting from the same financial institutions that
picked up all of these properties on the cheap when they imploded or foreclosed in 2008. So
it's the same system. It's just the next wave. So I'm sorry. Go back. You said September 2019.
What you were referring to? What specifically happened? So you remember you asked me what was
the trigger in 2008? Yeah. And I mentioned that it was repo overnight lending based on a run on
the assets. And the reason they did that, because they shorted it, meeting they, the market makers,
meeting the two big to fail banks that played both sides of the house. They are the casino.
And they did the same thing in 2019. The only reason we don't know about it was because, well,
twofold, really. One, Dodd-Frank supposedly did the stress test with the banks. And that's a whole
another story. But the main reason was because they just kept quiet. Nobody wanted to tell the
story. And then we ended up with COVID and they papered it over. We've been living with this
insanity for at least since 2019 in terms of the next exact wave. Right, right, right. Yeah. And
I know for a fact that this epidemic that we're, this pandemic we're going through is completely
destroying commercial real estate owners. And that's where the big run was because it's all
commercial real estate that they replaced mortgage backed securities with. And you're saying a lot
of these, a lot of these big banks still own some of these, this corp, this commercial real estate
from 2008? But what they're doing, what they're doing is they're able to take the so-called
water cannon or the, the cannon from the Federal Reserve and they're able to prop up their own
bonds. Right. It's another part of, it's another part of asset fraud. It's asset bubbles and they
can play it every which way they do. They've got control of the Fed. BlackRock is the administrator
of the Fed. BlackRock is the operation that was there going back to the beginnings, which was
explain to people who don't know what BlackRock is. A lot of people won't know. BlackRock is a
major financial consortium that's basically a hedge fund. And I think they're in private equity
also, but they also manage pension funds, big, big pension funds, big institutional investors.
And their job like any hedge fund is you make money. And a lot of those people make money on
inside information for one, Steven Schwartz went and so forth. And so they got pensions,
you know, where they're playing with their money that people earned over, of course,
of 40 years that they're getting returns, but they're getting returns on this market build
of sawdust. Because let me ask you this, after the great financial Christ of 2008,
when millions upon millions of people had no income and no jobs, who in the world was buying
commercial real estate? I don't fucking know. All I was doing was skateboarding in 2008.
By the way, skateboarders saved the world, man. I'm an old school skater, man.
Are you? Yeah, I grew up in Dogtown area, man. I skate empty pools and run from the cops when
I was a teenager. Oh hell yeah. That's all I did for pretty much the first, well,
the first three quarters of my life so far. I did. I dig it, man. Because skaters are always
freaking wise, man. I'll tell you, skaters get, they get hip to the game good and skaters always
on the right side of this stuff, man. Skaters are the good guys, you know, and so. Oh yeah,
hell for sure. I like, I know I'm being silly here, but I really believe that because skaters
have an attitude because they got to, you know, to dial a trick. It takes a lot of, you know,
wiping out and consequence, unlike Wall Street, when they wipe out everybody else pays the price
and they get to skate free. Oh, they got a foam pit. They got a giant foam pit when they launch
up the rant, they get to land in. Meanwhile, we're surrounded by chicks and fuck in, you know,
cocktails, right? And cocaine and hookers. That's right. Oh, by the way, I will tell you,
that's greening of that. So going back to old school, right? I know everybody in the blogosphere
talks a lot about Epstein and Weinstein and all these other things, but, you know, back in the
SNL crisis, what a lot of these banks would do is they'd have these huge parties, right? With,
with, you know, legislators, elected officials, and they'd get them on camera, you know, doing
fucking illicit drugs and screwing around with hookers, right? And so they had leverage over
them. So blackmailed them. Fuck yeah. This was going on decades, man. This is like old school,
freaking leverage, man. Yeah. And they still operate to that to this day. And this is nasty business.
Holy shit. Yeah. I mean, obviously it's still going on today. I mean, you can see the parallels
with the whole Epstein thing and the Ghislaine Maxwell thing. The biggest parallel to our story
and that stuff is just that everybody that had a ability to stop that stuff, they knew about it
for decades. Same with a lot of this situation. They know about it for decades. They just don't
prosecute it because they wait until they're either embarrassed, humiliated, or they're
being accountable by a population that gets it. And so, you know, I mean, to me, it's like,
you see the thumbprints of this stuff everywhere. Once you see it, you can't unsee it.
It's not rocket science. It's not conspiracy theory. This is just how crime works.
So right now in the middle of this pandemic, what is Blackstone doing?
Blackrock?
Is Blackrock or Blackstone?
Blackstone and Blackrock apparently speared off the same company. And I'm not sure which
manages what. I'm not an expert in Blackrock, but I can tell you that what are they doing?
They're the administrators, the Fed stuff of the CARES Act. So we've seen, they can lever up
the loans. Okay. So basically, we were told like, I think there was what, a $4 trillion, $2 trillion
stimulus. Yeah, right. But that's levered to $11 trillion. Through all of these different
acronyms of different ways that investment banks can lever the loan volume from the Fed.
So it's not $2 trillion. It ends up being $11 trillion. It's that way. And they can just
buy their own assets and they can backstop their own bonds and they can pay themselves their own
bonuses. So they just manipulate it all day, every day. Holy shit. This is so hard for someone
like me to wrap my head around because I just don't know, I don't know how all this stuff works
and how all these financial institutions work. That's not important for the con though, because
what's important for the con is it's a street crime. Right. It's a street crime every step of
the way that was prosecutable. And of course, we found it because we were able to happen
stance onto this this RICO conviction in Ohio, which was a miracle. I mean, once you understand
how they put together these investigations and you understand who did what when and how you
understand the criminality of it. So like there's tons and tons of laws on the books. You can't,
you know, you're not supposed to have what is called deceptive acts and practices,
which is illegal in all 50 states. It's a felony. You can't make up paperwork. You can't have
fraudulent paperwork. You can't sell illegal reps and warranties to investors upstream. These are
just a handful of the many crimes that happen at every level. And so when you're able to actually
get the evidence and you get the documentation fraud and you get the people that are involved with
it and you get the whistleblowers, you put the case together, you identify the people who are
going to roll, you go upstream and you find out that the CEOs are the ones that created this whole
thing. That's how you get convictions. So I noticed there's one clip in there. Why was
Obama saying that what these executives were doing was not necessarily illegal? He said it was
unethical, but it wasn't illegal. I love how you pointed that out because that's always the thing
that burns in my school more than anything. So let's think about who Obama was, right? Obama was
this change we can believe in people's mandate that rode the wave that could have had an FDR moment.
His background was he was a constitutional law expert. I think he was the editor of the Crimson
at Harvard, super, super smart guy. He was also a senator in Illinois. And he was very well of
predatory lending. And I know that because I have on camera a gentleman by the name of
Ira Rheingold who wrote the anti-predatory legislation with Obama as early as I think
in the mid 90s, late 90s at first. And then later, I think as they got closer to the actual crash.
But then he also came out of Chicago, right? Yeah, the public order organizing everything else.
But it was really fascinating that, you know, the Clintons who really created the greatest
growth of Wall Street in its history, right? Because of deregulation, like I was talking
about earlier, a lot of this stuff came out of the Clinton administration. When Obama ran against
Hillary, it was probably a slam dunk for Hillary. But how can Wall Street got completely behind
Obama? I don't know the answer to that for sure. All I know is he came out of Chicago. He certainly
had a close relationship with Jamie Dimon and Wall Street. I don't know what that means exactly,
but I do know that Jamie Dimon met with him 23 times after we met with Eric Holder as Department
of Justice guy, and that's unheard of at the Department of Justice. So as the Department
of Justice is trying to figure out who did what and when supposedly, the president's meeting with
the CEO who's being investigated, what I learned from the Department of Justice is you can't,
that's like meeting with the guy that you're investigating in a drug deal. You can't have
a back room meeting with this guy, but that's what happened. And then of course, we ended up
with all of these bailouts that I talked to you about to the tune of $29 trillion. And Rolling
Stone did a piece, by the way, I think it might have been 2012. It was right at the height of
Matt Taibbi's just phenomenal writing at that time. And the cover was of Elaine Fleishman,
who was a whistleblower for Chase. And it just goes, it went to show that everybody in the system
and all of the higher ups and the executives knew exactly what they were peddling. And by the way,
Jamie Dimon and that company, I think they've been fined, God, Billy. Who's Jamie Dimon?
He's the CEO of Chase. In fact, I think Biden was going to ask him to become our next Treasury
Secretary. What? Yeah, of course. He's probably the most powerful banker in the world. And so this
guy, yeah, and he's got a reputation going back to predatory lending in the late 90s when he was
working with the guy that took over city group. It's all incestuous at that level. Let me tell you,
man, these guys have been around and together for a very long time, all the top dogs.
Jesus Christ, man. I mean, many of them are out of it now, but, you know,
but their next wave, their lieutenants came up and they all came up in this system. And now here
we go again, right? I mean, it's just really the system. It's perverse incentives. It's the fish
rods from the head. It's fishing for fools. It's all of these different ingredients of deception
for a population that never to million years would think this is possible because they think that
there's laws and checks in places that would protect them and we don't. Tell me more. So when
is this documentary, when is it coming out and where could people watch it?
So as you might imagine, we're not on Netflix yet, right? And I don't know why that is. Let me
give you a little sidebar to that. So I do know that, you know, Netflix, I think they've seen us,
you know, we're trying to get a deal. We've got a great distributor. I mean, we've been through
the ringer on this, but Netflix recently announced that they're going to create a loan program to
black communities across the country, a hundred million dollar loan program. And so I was like,
wow, man, God, what a better way to explore and expose why they would want to do that than
with our story, of course, because just so you know, the African-American college-educated
net worth evaporated 60% as a result of the great financial crisis. 60% of African-Americans
net worth college-educated evaporated because of this crime, right? And the face of all of it for
us is Addie Polk. I think she's the Rosa Parks of this moment because of predatory lending and
everything that it amures. And Netflix, you know, they haven't been knocking down our door. So we're
going around Robin at the moment. We're doing self-distribution where we're going to do a live
broadcast on Facebook Live through ABC Cinema Studios. And we're going to be followed by live
panel discussion. Now, this is going to broadcast live on August 5th at 8 p.m. Eastern time. And
we're going to make our first episode free to the public, which is the one you've seen about
Addie Polk. We're going to have on our panel discussion the good guys from Ohio that got it
right alongside the pastor who was really the voice of our protagonist, Addie. But we're also
going to have on the panel the guy who was the former director of investigations for the FBI.
This is news. This is news. We're going to be, for once, put together how one entity criminal
investigation institution got a RICO conviction and why the FBI didn't. And that'll be on display
following. It'll be, the whole world should be asking, why wasn't this prosecuted? They're going
to get their answer. Wow, man. That's illuminating. So how long have you been working on this?
Seems like my entire life. So I went down to September 15, 2008. I bounced into this project
at the end of 2011. So 2012 led to the first step, which was a documentary I did at the beginning
called Forward 13, Waking Up the American Dream. But that was just turned out to be prologue.
This thing, the con really didn't start to go on overdrive until about 2015, 2016. So
it's really five or six years to pull this together on the con side, but it's been non-stop.
And we lapped this country 12 times, aggregating all of the details all over the country. So
for the first time ever, and I'll bring it back to Makora, this is a modern day Makora hearing.
It's what Congress didn't deliver to the American people in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
So where can people find, where can people go online, like social media or websites,
whatever, to find or follow the story and get the links to watch it?
Right on. Thank you. You can go on Facebook. You can go to the con series and like and
subscribe for updates there. On our website is thecon.tv. And you can also post your own stories
to that website. We encourage you to do so if you've gone through this calamity. We want to hear
from you guys. And then eventually we're going to be in theaters all over the United States. And I
know that sounds a little weird because of the COVID thing, but what that means is we're going to have
a virtual reality with theaters around a virtual reality distribution with all the theaters around
the United States. So the way it works now is like, let's say you've got an independent theater in
your neighborhood that you like to go see movies, but you can't because of COVID. A lot of these people
put stuff online. And so you can download like the cool film that came out, you know, that you want
to see rock and roll, whatever, we're going to be in all of those types of theaters and you can
download the entire series from there. And then eventually I think we're going to be on all of
the regular, you know, pay-per-view sites. So it's like Amazon and Apple TV and so forth.
And we'll keep doing that until hopefully there's such a massive catharsis from this that, you know,
somebody like Netflix will be like, yeah, the public is demanding and hopefully that'll break
through. But, you know, to just finish up, I mean, all of these guys like Apple and HBO and all the
rest of them, I mean, they all get their debt financing from Wall Street. And we, you know,
we basically, you know, reveal something they probably don't want the world to know.
Do you honestly think that the acquisition is exact, but I can tell you what we've been.
This is big, dude. This is as big as it gets. It's the whole system of power.
It is the story within the story within the story that everybody's impacted by.
Student loans, car loans, healthcare, everything that we depend on rolls through Wall Street.
And much of it rolls through the same sort of formula.
They just got their, they got their claws too deep, too deep into us.
Yeah, it's not, it's not supply and demand. It's not creative destruction. It's not capitalism.
What it is, it's crony capitalism or monopolies. And it's happened many times throughout history.
It always ends bad. It never ends good.
Are there any other countries, are there, are there any other countries you're aware of
who are corrupt to the core financially like this?
Well, I'd say all of them. I'd say all of them. You know, I mean, Russia is obviously,
I think we can grow up to more and more. I mean, do they have as big of a play internationally?
Because, but you don't think, I mean, you think of Russia like, okay, right, that makes sense.
But you don't think of the United States typically to be as corrupt as they really are.
Like you said, like, like you said earlier, it's not common knowledge. Only if you really
look for it, can you find out what I would do. I was in the dark my whole life. I thought there
was no way in hell this could happen. You know, honestly, I thought I was wise. I mean, again,
I'm a skater. I've seen a lot of shit, right? Yeah. And the bottom line is that,
no, I could never in the million years devise in my imagination what we found on this journey.
It's so beyond comprehension. And it's just so sad. And it's so disturbing because I want to
believe in democracy. I want to believe in the integrity of law. I want to believe in courage.
I want to believe in the right people doing the right thing more than the bad guys getting away
with it. But what you discover here, bro, is you walk through the goddamn saloon, you get to the back,
and you see the guy in the black hat counting the money with the guys in the white hat.
You've been betrayed. It's all about deception. It's that simple. So why do people want to listen
to me? Who the fuck am I, right? I'm one of you. I'm a guy that actually had the ability
because I got lucky and I'm tenacious as fuck. Pardon my language. I hate injustice, dude.
I hate it. I hate it with a passion. I understand what created the Holocaust and World War II.
I understand all of the Jim Crow scenarios. I hate injustice. And all of the stuff that's
happening now, like you said, these cultural wars that are really, really serious and severe and
terrifying and sad. But it's protecting a criminal racket, man. Can we put aside
our grievances for the moment to get on to the business of getting rid of the corruption?
I think that's something we should all be able to agree on. And yet, it certainly hasn't galvanized
this yet. Yeah, no. A lot of people are too blinded by the moment or too blinded by
thinly veiled ideologies to look deeper into what the problem is because it's easy. Yeah,
it's easy and it's primal. Because they're lazy. You can see it. I mean, you can see it's so clear,
who people pander to and why they do it, if you really want to pay attention to it.
I think this is all the consequences of institutions rotting from the core. And the
thing is, the biggest problem, and I've got to believe this, and maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm
wrong. Maybe it's too late to salvage the day, right? Maybe we're done for. Maybe we're on to the
next, which is going to be even more brutal than anything we've ever seen. That could very much,
very well happen. But I got to believe that there's more good people in this country than
that. And if they're equipped with the information will not stand on their knees or bend on their
knees and cower in cowardice any longer. That's what I'm choping for more than anything. People
have got to reset their courage, man. And the only way you can do that is if you've got the
information because you can't be snow jobbed if you know what's up. Right. Well, I'm glad we have
people like you that are uncovering this kind of stuff and that are spending years to help this
stuff pull to the surface and study it like you do. And thank you to people like you for
helping us get the word out because if it's ever going to happen, man, if there's ever going to
be a change, I think now is when it's going to happen. You know, it took it took all of this
that we've been going through in the past year to make a change for better or worse. Something's
got to happen. I'm with you on that. But here's, here's what's crazy, right? Because nothing,
honestly, nothing happens in a vacuum by itself. It's always a continuation of something else.
I mean, your whole life is not right. Right. Yeah. When I went through this madness,
I thought the world ended. It literally nearly ended my world. Right. And I couldn't think
he could get any worse than that. And now here we are. And now you're like waking up to it. Right.
And I hate that like, whoa, culture and everything else. You want to get hip to the game. You want
to wake up just to understand what reality is based on what systems are supposed to do
and what they're not and who did what when and how to cover up what that's the deal. It's details.
It's common knowledge versus specific knowledge. And media failed to tell this. And I hope that we
not get out of the park. And look, if we hit 10% of the people that got wrecked by 2008,
we'll have a huge audience. Yeah. And it's only getting bigger every day. Right. And so I just hope
that, you know, people, and this is the worst part of America, in my opinion. And I think we
really need to get out of our shells. We tend not to react until stuff happens to us.
Meanwhile, it's been happening to them for a very long time. You know what I'm saying?
Right. That's true. You got to get out of our headspace and be like, yeah, you know what,
I'm going to click the screen and go on to the next thing and buy the next whatever,
because I can't, it's like escape is until you can't escape. Yeah.
Well, thank you for, thank you for your time. Thank you for doing this, man. I really appreciate it.
I'm sure a lot of people are going to go watch, go follow your story and look for this thing when
it comes out. Spread the word, man. Let me tell you, thank you again for what you're doing. And
I'll tell you from where I'm sitting right now, it feels like we're standing in a forest of dry,
you know, dry kenneling and the more the match. And it just feels that way because of the feedback
I'm getting right now. People are suddenly going, Oh yeah, that makes sense. Yep. Absolutely, man.
Well, thank you for your time. It was great meeting you. Be well, Daniel. Take care, man.
