Your podcast is dope. The first time I learned about you, someone DM'd me and said, you've
got to check out Trendifyr on YouTube and TikTok. I saw your TikTok and it was like,
I was going down the rabbit hole all your videos for like an hour, I feel like.
I appreciate that. And it's funny. The world works in weird ways because you, I think you
followed me on Twitter, which was the funniest thing because I don't tell anyone about my
Twitter. It's the one social media, like I don't talk about it on the show. No one has
me there and you found me there. And I noticed it and I'm like, wait a second. I had just
been told about your podcast about a month before. My friend Mark asked me to check it
out and I was like, this guy's fire. This is a great podcast. How the fuck do I not
know this? Like I pride myself on trying to know some of the great long form podcasts.
And so then I started, I think I watched the Roger Reeves one says his name, the pilot.
And then I went back, I watched the Boost the Monte ones and it was so good, but I was
like, that's really weird that that, you know, we didn't know about each other and then we
knew about each other and then someone said to like connect.
The community connected us, bro. Very, very cool. So thank you to whoever did that.
Hell yeah. How did you get started doing your podcast? What made you want to do that?
Thing is, it's fucking great. I love some of your guests.
Thank you. Thank you. And I'm looking forward to you having Jim in here. I think that would
be great. But yeah, so that's a little bit of a convoluted story. I was, I was on Wall
Street. So I came out of college and I worked in the private bank at Merrill Lynch. And
so my boss, who was there a long time before me, you know, he managed the wealth of very,
very rich people. So I think like the average net worth was like 80 million, something like
that, 70, 80 million. And we also did work with like companies. So like public companies,
we would do 10 be five dash one plans. Sometimes we'd do something really simple, like a 401
K, as it just gave you an excuse to know everyone there. But I did that for a few years. And
the way that business works is you come out of college, if you're lucky enough to get
into a great situation like that. And I was, because me and my boss got tight before I
got there, you know, you grind like a dog and then eventually you get the offer if you
make it. And then you make money. And so I did that. And I loved my team and everything
really enjoyed working with them. But you don't know anything about the world coming
out of college, you know, and I didn't, in fairness to myself, I didn't assume that I
wasn't like, Oh, I know how things work. It was never like that. But there was a party
you that's like, all right, well, I might know one or two things. Hey, you get out,
you're like, nah, I don't know. God damn thing. So I started to realize like kind of
subconsciously at first, and then eventually consciously that like, I wasn't into the work
we did. I just didn't like banking. It's not me, you know, picture me in a suit.
Wolf of Wall Street. Yeah, yeah, like exactly. Like that's not what it is. Number one, it's
not sexy like that, if that's what you want to call it. And it's also, you know, it's
an older school business. There's certainly some good with it. I will say the best part
about my job, my favorite part that I did like, and it's actually what I owe understanding
like a couple things about is the fact that a big part of the job was going out and meeting
people, knowing everyone, especially we were up in New York City. So you're in the center
of the world, right? And my job was to go out and make friends with people of all walks
of life, who were in different industries, doing different things. So I had to learn
like, Oh, this guy talks to that guy, because they do this thing. And then this type of
business works. What are they working on over here? And then you start to get a picture
of like, Oh, here's how some things actually work. Then you do your research the whole
nine. So I think that was really good. And I liked that. But I just didn't like the back
end work. It was very boring and regulated as hell. That fucking sucked. So
you have to look at a lot of different types of businesses and like, how different types
of shit worked. Yes, exactly. Cool. I like to call that looking under a lot of skirts.
I'm gonna use that. That's pretty good. I like that. But that is precisely what it was. But
yeah, so I was doing that. And I got to a point, as you were asking me, like how the
podcast happened, I had started to open my brought in my horizons a little bit along
the way. And I started probably in like 20 late 2017, pretty early. Actually, I started
like having some side LLCs that do with people, nothing crazy, like not real companies, but
stuff like we work on low projects. And I started to realize like, you know, I had always
been a more creative person. Banking is not very creative, in most ways, right? That was
not my cup of tea. And so I was like, more passionate about some of the little work I
would do, you know, like writing stuff, coming up with things, thinking outside the box. And
so I was thinking I wanted to go towards something like that. And then it got to the point where
I was going to get that offer. And I did. And my boss again, to stay very close with
the guy, you know, I was like, holy shit. If I say yes to this, I'm committing for the
next five years minimum. Now, hypothetically, I could have said yes, collected a paycheck
for three months and failed. But like, that'd be a douchebag thing to do. Like I love this
guy, I'm not going to do that to him. So he was like saying like come in the inner sanctum
pretty much. So I'm like, okay, I got to say no to this, which obviously I think, I think
you might have seen it coming a little bit, but it was still very sad, obviously. And it
was kind of sad for both of us. But this was later stages of the 2019. And so he said to
me, he's like, all right, look, you know, you're still getting some of the salary from
the company, chill out, you know, this is going to be an industry shift for you. Didn't know
what I was going to do yet. He's like, hang here, you do good work on the back end, you
make your money to pay your bills, and you figure it out and we'll get you on your way.
I'm like, great. So I went into the process of doing that. And probably, no, not probably,
it was, it was January 26th, it was the day Kobe died. I remember that. But yeah, it's
like kind of weird thing in life. But I went to do a little media work for my friend, Ty,
for his La Crosse company. He just wanted me to go there and like, interview the founders
afterwards, like pretty easy stuff. And it was a weird day as Kobe died. You know, that
was like a, I've never been affected by a celebrity death.
Like even Sunday, wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. It was like, even like when Whitney Houston
died, who has a huge fan of us, like, wow, it's, that's so sad. And it was like heartbreaking.
But then like, you know, you go to the next thing, the Kobe thing was weird, wasn't it?
The Kobe was weird. The Kobe was weird. And I just had like the weird because his daughter
died too. It's just a weird day. So there's a whole chopper full of like a bunch of the
teammates, bunch of her teammates. I think it was like nine people. And there was even
a report. I remember that afternoon when I was going to the job, there was like a report
that like his whole family was on there. And I'm like, Oh my God, you know, there's some
things it's like, it's a little bigger than, than everything. That was weird because you
could be, it was like, there's no way a dude like him could get in a freak accident like
that. I know. You know, it's like Kobe doesn't die. Right. Like it's Kobe. And dude, how
weird was it the night before that they interviewed him about, were they interviewing or they
were interviewing LeBron or was it LeBron passed him the night before they were in the
same arena, right? And they were like, no, but he sent a tweet. He had been in the same
arena with him, I think maybe a week before. But then he sent out like the congratulations
tweet at like 1am or something. Oh, LeBron passed him. That's what happened. Okay. Right
before. How fucking crazy is that? Just wow. That's weird, man. I can't still can't wrap
my head around that one. And if you would have told me that this was not going to be
a top three story of the year, I would have looked at you like you were nuts. And it probably,
I mean, it might be number three, but like, you know, the pandemic hit all this other
shit and the election and everything, like all this shit happened. So it's almost like
it feels so much like it was so much longer ago than it actually was. But I remember that
because I was at, you know, not to make it about myself at all, but it was like a weird
day. I'm like, look at us. We're doing stupid fucking media work here. You know what I mean?
Like, this is just like, what even is this? And we were supposed to start, I think at
like six and Ty looked at me because things got tight. And he's like, yo, can we do this
at 10? I'm like, yeah, no problem. I'll just chill. So I'm just sitting there like thinking
about this for like hours. Then we did it. And I didn't think anything of it. It was
just we put the cameras up kind of like this and everything. And we just did like a little
probably half hour worth of content, just going back and forth talking about his past
and stuff like that for his company. And they turned at the end, you know, they yelled
cut, and they turned the lights on in the place. And I didn't realize, but there were
like 35, I don't know, 25, 35 people, something like that still there. And they were all just
like mesmerized. I'm like, this was kind of boring. I don't know what the big deal is,
but some people came up to me after and they were like coming up in my face like, bro,
do you have a podcast? And I'm like, no, no, I don't have a podcast. They're like, you need
a podcast. And I had heard this before from some people like sporadically, never thought
anything of it. I'm like, what the fuck am I going to do with the podcast?
Like, why were they telling you you need a podcast?
Because we tie had asked me again, I didn't think anything of this, but he had asked me
like, for what we were going to do. He's like, Hey, I want you to ask about some of the
shit that I did in college too. Because like, I knew about that. It wasn't like a big deal.
But like some stuff that like, it was kind of surprising that you'd have this and the content
like he works with high school kids and stuff. But he's being very open like with parents about
some of the dumb decisions he made in the past. So I was just like, okay, like if you want to do
that, cool. And so I, you know, I knew the subject matter because I already knew the story and
everything. And we were going back and forth about it. And I guess I just like pressed them on it,
like in a healthy way. And people were, I guess a lot of the people sitting there had never heard
this. And they were very surprised. Like this was some bullshit, you know, just filming a quick
interview. And then they were surprised to be like a little bit entertained by it. And like how deep
it got. Again, we didn't think anything of it, but they did. That was the point. And so they're
all telling me this. And this is happening while it just all came together. Because it's happening
while I'm on the job trail, getting my ass handed to me, because I was a banker, right? And now I'm
applying, you know, my resume might look decent, but like I'm applying for a job to be like a
creative somewhere. And some of these recruiters, I mean, I was going when I tell you I was going
for the bottom tier jobs, I was going for the bottom. I was going for jobs that paid 35 grand a
year in New York City. Like I was not going for anything that had anything that I wouldn't have
to completely prove myself. I'm like, I can't even remember, man. I think I looked at like
something as simple as like content manager, like, okay, like ad agencies and stuff. Yes,
all in marketing, because I'm like, well, that's, I'll dip my toe in the pool over there and figure
it out. Right. And I'm like, I'll start at the lowest possible job possible, just to get my foot
in the door, and I'll take care of the rest. Right. So I did have some great experiences with
some recruiters who are really cool, who just like, I reached out to some random senior people,
just cold called them and they actually took my call. And they, they liked that because I wasn't
unrealistic about it. But nonetheless, I'm getting in front of some of these opportunities. And I
just had like some negative situations where people weren't even giving me the time of day.
You expect that when you're getting it every single stop, you feel like your whole life's a
failure. It's a natural human thing. So this is all happening. And then this thing happens and
people are coming up and telling me this thing. And it's this weird day where Kobe died and like
your head's all over the place. And so I had to drive home late at night, like an hour and a half.
And I just drove home in silence. And I'm very glad I didn't actually think about this.
All I did was I was like, fuck it, I could die in this car tomorrow. Like,
I don't know what's going on here. But if I, if I ever did a podcast, I'd do it right.
Let me just start researching equipment. We'll see what happens. And that was it. Like there was no
like writing down a plan or like how's going to, there was none of that. And I just started,
I made it a weekend hobby. I'd go to like B&H photo. I didn't know any of this shit.
The one in New York? The one in Fairfield, New Jersey was the one I would go to. It's a big one.
And, you know, when we had done media work, we always had a producer there. He'd stick some
mic on me, you know, give me the thumbs up. And that was it. You know, that's the extent of what
I knew. I knew things by eye, but I didn't know how to do any of it. So I kind of learned all this
stuff. And about throughout February, I made a lot of progress on the job trail. And I had like a
couple of really good opportunities potentially coming up. And then the pandemic starts to possibly
hit. So I hit the order button on like all my main equipment, I think like, might have been like
March 4th, something like that. Then that next week happens, where like the whole world starts to
shut down. Now mind you, I'm still working in the markets at the time. So I'm on the phone all day
with clients freaking out, they're losing money, the whole nine. I forget completely that I ordered
this stuff. So then the first day of quarantine, Friday, March 13th, I will never forget that I
get the notification. And it's like, all of your equipment has arrived downstairs. And I'm like,
Oh, my God, because now every job opportunity just dried up, like the whole world's stopping.
And I'm like, I bring it up, I look at the couch, and I'm like, what the fuck am I going to do with
this? This is the dumbest shit. This is a sick joke on me right now. So then I don't know, maybe
it was like a second, maybe it was 10 seconds, I don't know, but I stared at it. And then I'm like,
fuck it, when else am I going to do this? And my boss, I swear to God, it was like either that day
or within two days calls me up and he says, Hey, we're probably not going back to the office till
like June. And I'm like, okay. And he's like, you definitely just had every job opportunity dry up,
didn't you? I'm like, yeah. And he's like, all right, I know you were going to leave at the
end of this month, but why don't you just like, chill and collect. And then when the job market
heats back up, you can get out of here. And I'm like, sounds good to me, you know, so I pretty
much did that. And while this was going on, I just crossed the chasm. It was like April 1st,
I just had a moment and I'd never look back. And I'm like, I'm just going to build this shit.
I'm just going to build this. I'm going to start on zero. We're going to see where it goes. So I
spent the next five, six months researching doing a whole bunch of shit building. And then I launched
September 2020. And it just kind of it, it translated faster than I thought it was going to
to being able to be a guest podcast, like I wanted it to be. I thought I was going to have to do
like 30 solo episodes before someone really wanted to come in. But to my surprise, I did get one
person to come in on my initial like 10 that I dropped day one. And then I had a few really cool
people hit me up like, yo, I would totally do this. I was like, all right, let's see how long
this can last like that. And then it just never stopped. The only time I did a solo was when I
had COVID like a year later. Yeah. What would you, what do you do on a solo podcast? Are you,
you're one of those guys that's good at just talking? Bro, I can tell you can just sit there
and have a conversation and just, and just rant, right? Yes, it's funny if you get to a moment where
there's a nice rant, which I might have had like one or two of those. I don't even know how many of
those I had, but I don't like it because I like bouncing ideas out there or having someone
bounce them at me, whatever it is. And then here, the other perspective, sometimes someone goes 100%
agree. Other times people go, that's the dumbest fucking shit I've ever heard in my life.
When you're in there, it's just the cameras and you're, you're talking to the wall. Yeah. So like,
I understand some people like that content and I guess they like some of the solo episodes, but
I just think it's so much better when you talk with somebody. Right. So it was like,
there's a lot of guys that are really good at doing the solo shit though. They're like,
you ever see Tim Dylan do it? Bro, I watch every single one of his episodes. It's incredible. He's
so fucking funny. You know how hard that is to do? I can't even imagine. I can't even imagine.
Now he does have Ben in there, which helps. He laughs at everything and that makes it so much
better. He can, but people, I think unless you've done it, don't realize that even having
just a producer in there who can fill like a gap of two seconds of silence with a laugh,
it's huge. Cause when you are just in there alone talking, you are, it's not like in a
conversation where sometimes someone can have a dramatic pause and it's cool. It's like,
oh shit, I haven't talked for two and a half seconds. I gotta say something. I gotta say something.
And you're like, you don't want to over edit it. So when I, I was really strict with myself,
I'm like, no cuts of this. Like the only thing is if God forbid I pause for five seconds,
I'll cut to the second camera and we'll make it too. But I didn't want to do that. And so that was
like, it was stressful and also there was extensive research that would go into each of those because
they'd be on a very specific topic, be a lot of work on that. And it's just not, it's not as fun.
So, you know, I'm glad I did it because it made me have to be good at that. And it's pretty hard
to do, I guess. But yeah, I like, I like getting to the guest model, which is also why I liked your
podcast right away. Because in my opinion, there aren't, there are not enough podcasts who are doing
long form conversations that are not in niche, right? Like you, you have all different types of
people on it. All different types of people that needs to be way more of that. I could never figure
out like, like why they're, you know, you have like, obviously Joe Rogan is the number one podcast
in the world. That's what he does from his own angle. Guy like Lex Friedman does that very well,
one of Joe's guys. There's some others like, I guess, Dak Shepherd for a while. I haven't seen
it in a while, but he was doing that and it was longer form. But there's not nearly as many as
you would think and there's a big demand for it. Yeah, most of the most successful ones are,
are in a niche, right? I think that's the best way to like gain traction or to gain like a big
following because there's so many fucking podcasts. It's just easier for them to all be categorized
into their own niche. So you can watch this podcast for that, this podcast for that. Otherwise,
you know, otherwise it's just kind of like, you're just gaining people, people, no one's sticking,
right? So if, if no one's interested in you, they're just going to find, come to you for the
one guest you had. And the next guest could be, you know, a fucking guy who sells cotton candy
one day and FBI agent the other day, no one's going to come back with another next episode.
Yeah, it's, it makes it, it does make it a harder road. So like I look at you,
you did it a really outside the box way unplanned too, which is cool. You're a great filmmaker.
You built a channel with kick ass documentaries. So you, you built an audience of people who were
like, yo, this guy's fire. And then you launched a podcast. And as you told me, there were certainly
people who were like, all right, well, I'm not about this. And they left. Right. But there are a
lot of people who weren't. Yeah. So they were already there. Yeah. If you stayed. Yeah. And so
you already had, and you had credibility, right? Like that's a great way to do it. With me,
if I hadn't gone to the short clip model to like entice people, I'd be dead. Really?
No shot. That's where a hundred, a hundred million percent of the growth is from that.
From the Tik Tok stuff. Yes. And it's all, it's all from that too, because on YouTube,
you go hard on that shit. I try. You take clips from movies. Yeah. You add music.
It was, look, man, how many podcasts are there? Like four million now?
Yeah. At least four billion. Right. Active. Let's call it, let's beat, let's overshoot it.
Let's say active. There's two and a half million in this country. Right. Just alone.
That do podcasts like an episode a week, right? Right. Something like that. At least one.
There's obviously some people who do like one every month. Sure. But I'm saying like,
let's call active podcasts once a week to use what you just said or, or more.
That means that this is one of the dumbest possible things you could ever do as a career
decision. Yeah. Because you were trying to get attention. Before the pandemic,
there was 191 million people who had listened to a podcast. It's definitely higher now.
I think 60% of them were weekly listeners at the time. So that's, maybe it was like 125,
130. I'm trying to remember these numbers. So if I'm a little off, sorry. But either way.
Now divide that across two and a half million and also look at the talent out there. Look at
the people making great podcasts, doing great work. Hard to take away from that. Like, are you,
are you crazy enough to walk in day one and be like, I want to take some listeners from Joe
Rogan. Yeah. Yeah. Right. You're never going to do that. Yeah. It shouldn't be your mindset. Your
mindset should be like, let me see if I can carve out someone wanting to possibly add me into their
role with other people who happen to be great at this. Right. Right. So like also asking people
to check out a longer form podcast. It's an instant gratification world. They want to know what
they're getting. So you're already behind the April. Right. So what I eventually did is I looked
across the board and I said, what is something that no one else is doing? And I couldn't figure it
out. But I'm like, no one goes all out on short clips. Like no one makes it a production like
what you would do with your documentaries. No one makes it like a work of art. Right. Like they
all just like take clip drop it right there. They don't even they just cut this, chop it out and
post it. And they barely even chop like in between did not have silence and stuff or they'll they'll
literally my favorite is like in a TikTok feed or a YouTube shorts feed that's 1080 by 1920,
where every video that someone's hitting is 1080 by 1920, they'll just like lift a 1080 by
1350 graphic from Instagram and like, yeah, people are going to watch that. It like doesn't care about
the viewer. So I'm like, this is crazy. And then like the few people who actually pulled this off
are doing doing well. I'm like, I think I could do this. It took a while to like get to the point
where I was like good at it. But that's just what I leaned into.
Interesting. Yeah, because your TikTok is like huge, you have hundreds of thousands of TikTok
followers, don't you? But is the TikTok stuff transitioned to YouTube and that and all the
other shit? That's my question. It did. It did to Apple and Spotify way more than YouTube.
Really? Yes. Yes. So I knew that there was I think about this a lot because
some of it still doesn't make sense to me. And there's a lot I don't know. But I did know
pre pandemic, I want to say it was like maybe 25, 30% of podcast consumers consumed video. So
they consumed on YouTube, right? Probably higher now because more people have home offices. They
throw it on the screen over there, right? And I can never figure that out. Because I'm like,
I never did that. Like to this day, like now when I sit in the studio, yeah, I'll throw it on. But
so I guess technically I am, but I'm never looking at it very rarely. Like there has to be a really
poignant moment. Like when you had the, what was the girl's name who had the baby in jail?
Oh, yeah, Jessica Kent. Yeah. So like I remember I had I was doing work. I had that on the third
screen over there in the studio. And then she got to a moment where she talked about when they
were going to take the baby away from her in the hospital. That I turned to because like you can
hear it. And she you know, she's she's like trying to not get emotional about it. So like that's
nice to be able to do that. Yeah. But I never I was a pot. I was I was subscribed to like 137
podcasts like I'm a podcast head and I never did that. So I'm like, well, these people got to be
out there, you know, they're doing it. So I could never figure out how to translate it to YouTube.
And with Tik Tok, what would happen was I wanted people to see that this was like a legit production.
So I'd put the link to YouTube only in there. So I didn't want to make them have to click twice
like in the profile or in my profile. Okay, you can't put it in the post. Right. Okay. So my profile,
I would put it and I didn't want them to have to click to a beacons page and then find another
link. I'm like, I'm just going to give them YouTube says on the corner of my video Apple
Spotify YouTube. So I'll let them figure it out. And what I found is pretty much like
fans, people who became fans would come in there and grateful for this, by the way, and they'd hit
subscribe on YouTube. But that's not where they would consume it. They would go to Apple and Spotify.
So I started charting on Apple, on Apple, at least, I don't know about Spotify, but
started charting in the U.S. on Apple. And I still was at
at the time, I think I was at 6000 subscribers on YouTube and no one watched there. I had like
50 views and episodes, something like that. And then I'm like, you know what, this is fine,
because we're building in one place. We'll figure it out over here eventually. And
what ended up happening is YouTube short started to work. And then that's where I built
literally like before they started to work, which was about December 1st. I think I had like
15 and a half thousand subscribers. And my whole subscriber base has come from that.
From the shorts from the shorts, which is also
it, it's, I think it's all good. That's what Jessica Kent was talking about, too. She was
talking about the shorts. Yeah, I remember she talked about that. Yeah. And she said that that
was like, I get good discoverability there. I think she was posting like four days a week or
something. But like you could say it's good and it's bad. I think it's all good because it gets
me exposure. And like I work for these clips. They're usually about 28 to 47 seconds somewhere in
there. You know, some of them take 25 hours to do, like I go all out on them. And so like,
I know now I've seen enough data, like, I know what the bar needs to be at to earn people's time
and to earn the right for them to not skip this video. And it works. And so the downside is that
for now, YouTube, because like I was in a YouTube shorts pod, too, like the company came in one
of those where they like, we meet like, once every other week or something, exchange ideas,
it's one of the leaders of the of the shorts team in YouTube runs the team and she's great.
But one of the things that YouTube hasn't figured out yet is how to
classify shorts within their algorithm. Because and I don't I'm getting above my pay grade here,
but my understanding is that the way the algorithm works is it wants content that's
all in the same length zone. Hence why you have like, Logan Paul has impulsive, but then he has
impulsive clips, right? A lot of these channels, they do one and the other. That's because when
he posts an episode, that's one and a half, two hours versus posting a three minute clip.
YouTube doesn't measure average watch time, I think, I think, before it measures the average,
the total watch time on each. So if I watch 100% of a three minute clip on YouTube, that's great,
right? If the audience is watching an average of 100%, you have a perfect clip, right? That's three
minutes. Now I post an hour and a half episode. Let's say you have great on an hour and a half
episode where some people just click and don't watch, you have a great watch time, you have 45
minutes of watch time on that. So you have 50%. YouTube doesn't give you credit for the fact
that you have 50% on an hour and a half video and someone stayed on their app for 45 minutes.
Because they're rectifying it with, well, it was three. It was three over here. And now it's 45
here. So then they, the numbers get fucked up. So what happens is now I built this subscriber
base on YouTube, which has helped on Apple and Spotify, which is great. And it's helped on YouTube
and I have way higher numbers than I did. But I don't go into a lot of people's feeds.
My ultra fans, like the people who are literally refreshing to like wait for the next thing that
drops, they all get it because they, you know, they have notifications on the whole night.
But most people, I don't go in their feed yet because YouTube goes, oh wait, he posted a three
hour episode. Don't put that one in there. Then I post a 30 second short. Oh, put that one in there.
Oh, so your channel is basically optimized for shorts. Yes. Got it. But it's giving me all
the exposure. Right. So like, like some of the shorts creators in the pods will complain about
this so much because their shorts, they don't get any views on their regular content or whatever.
But I'm like, first of all, YouTube's paying us for these shorts. You know, could it be more,
maybe, but like they're, they're paying out, it's a big fund. So they are paying out a lot of money.
I'll give them credit. So you make the money and you're getting exposure.
You have to be able to capitalize on the exposure somehow. Even if it's going to be longer, harder
work, like for now, the way I got to do it is I got to get way bigger to get to a point where I
split it up and ask people to go to another channel too. I'm very conscious of that. I don't
want to have them do that yet. Cannibalize it. Yeah. So I'm like, well, I know I can get exposure
with these shorts. So guess what, bitch, you got to fucking make a couple of shorts a week and
that's most of your week, but just do it. You know, so I think that's a good trade.
It's incredible, man. What you're doing is insane, especially the amount of work that you put into
those things. And another thing is most podcasts aren't even on YouTube, like a lot of big podcasts.
That's one thing that that was hard for me was discovering podcasts that weren't on YouTube
because I don't fucking, I still don't know how to find them. You were one of those guys.
You were one of the YouTube heads with podcasts. Yeah. I mean, I was YouTube with four podcasts.
So like all I cared about was, was getting my shit to get viewed on YouTube. Yeah. I don't know.
Are you one of those guys that's like super analytical? Do you go into like the numbers and
watch like how far they watch and like, okay, right there, they stopped. I got to figure out
what I did wrong right there. Maybe like adjust that a little bit. Oh fuck. Yeah. You're super
analytical, right? In my life, I'm not good at screenshotting shit, but on YouTube and TikTok,
I'm good at screenshotting shit. So I go in, I have a drill, like I try to live by this with
certain things. I'd rather be looking at it than looking for it. So I remember there were some
early shorts videos that started to go that were at a similar time period where they started to go.
And I hadn't screen shoted some of my analytics data from shorts like a month before and I'm like,
never again. So now every time I go in there, it's like speed demon. Like I go into that YouTube
studio app. I can't because it's on airplane mode right now, but I go into that app and like,
I click the video boom, boom, boom screenshot. I have the screenshot of the time obviously when
I did it. It shows I get the screen of how far into the video it is. So is it seven days and
20 hours at this point I'm screenshotting it gives me the percentage watch time. It gives me the
number of I get the screenshot of the page that has the number of comments that were on it,
the number of likes so I can get a ratio. I go look at the number of subscribers who have subscribed
on the basis of this video. I will go screenshot the relevant episode to see where those views
are being translated. So like is a short translating to people going to the episode. I want to know
that right because I want to know what ones work what ones don't. But yeah, I do a lot of that.
Okay, you go deep on it. Yeah. Do you do you build like spreadsheets and like break all this stuff
down? No. Okay, you just look at the screenshots up here. You know what the fuck you got to do next.
It's up here. And then like if I'm thinking about a specific thing, I will go back into those screenshots
and I have a photographic memory. So I'll be like, okay, the Raj video from a month ago, that was
roughly around the time I screenshot this other thing. Let me go find that. Okay, I remember
there was like a 91.8% watch time at like 400 viewers and then at 4000 it was the same.
Like and then I'll go confirm that and then I want to see where it was at 400,000.
How much did it fluctuate? Did it go off 91.8 or whatever it was to 91.4 or did it flip around
and still go way up in views but it's down at 89% watch time. Yeah. Interesting, dude. That's so
crazy. So when you first started doing this shit, you started having just like your friends come on
or did you like have an idea of the type of guests that you want to have like Jim? Like you said you
knew Jim for years, right? Did you kind of want to go down that kind of like crazy like American
history deep state type rabbit hole? My role was simple. If I'm curious about it, let's do it because
you seem like you know a lot of shit. Like you seem like you know quite a bit about about like
politics, history, that kind of stuff. I think, I mean this is my job. I don't do anything else,
right? Like I sit here, I work on the podcast and a part of my job is knowing what's going on.
Is that because of the podcast or is that just like natural for you? Some of it's natural but
it's also like yeah, I'm in the studio, I'm working. Like this is where I get my quick bites of what's
going on. What's the big story that just happened? Oh, there's people talking about someone Twitter,
let's see what that is and I still miss most of it. So like a couple things there. Number one,
it's very easy and maybe you would notice this if you thought about it like from your podcast,
I'll bet it's probably pretty similar. It's very easy once you have some sort of expert in front
of you on whatever it is. Could be a current event or it could be like their life and what they did.
It's very easy to start putting things together if they're opening up and I've been lucky. I've had a
lot of people, I mean like Jim's a great example. We keep bringing him up and your people will hear
him soon. Like that guy doesn't give a fuck. He'll just say at this point he's like, yeah, I'll
tell you about this case. I'll tell you about that one. I'll tell you about that time I did that to
this criminal. Like he'll just go off and so then maybe while he's talking I can piece together
things I remember of like, oh what about this other thing this other person told me about one time
and then connect the dots. I can sound like I know it but really all I'm doing is I'm
fishing and then he might say yeah exactly and then suddenly like now he's got another story
and I try to do that sometimes it doesn't work but yeah I try to stay like informed but I don't
know what I don't know and that's a lot. I just like to have an idea like you and I were talking
about suicide and mushrooms before this. I told you I don't know much about them. I think I listened
one time to like a Joe Rogan episode where he had on some guy and it kind of went over my head
so like I don't know if tomorrow I'd bring in psilocybin guy but I might and I might just be
like all right I don't know fucking shit man tell me what it is you know and then would people give
me credit for knowing about that maybe but they shouldn't you know what I mean like it's almost
like you kind of get credit for asking questions right if that makes sense yeah it totally does
and I'll definitely give you some of those micro doses if you want some yeah I think I've been
thinking as I told you they're not hardcore I've been thinking about it for a few years because
I'm like that was one part of college I skipped like I just watched all my buddies do it yeah
I'm like kind of wonder but there's like there's like bloke like not bloke but there's like people
in like Silicon Valley that work at these tech companies and these creative think tank people
that that take those things every day when they go to work and just trying to be creative.
This is in your phone because of mushrooms or in your phone this is in your hand I'm holding
the phone oh yeah people listening this is in your hand because of trips right that's what Steve
Jobs did and that definitely I'm a huge Steve Jobs guy are you yeah that's one of the things
was he was here I don't know a lot about the history of him was he big into uh
magic mushrooms oh yeah yeah and does he say that that's what led him to create a lot of the products
through tripping he has like having the vision he was quoted as and I don't I don't remember the
exact quotes I'm not going to give him but he was quoted in the range of talking about how
those experiences especially like right after college and I think during college at one point
he like lived out in the desert I think in a in a in an RV for a month or some shit like that
he went to India did some wild shit over there those experiences when he was using creative
substances and I don't remember if it was like psilocybin I gotta go look at that again but he
was using some of this stuff that is what gave him a lot of his creative vision on the world and it
allowed him to put things together so like it married his interests his OCD with his creativity
right so one of my favorite stories about him is his father because he was adopted so he
genetically didn't have a lot in common with his dad there were different people
but his he was tight with his dad and his dad was like a I don't remember his exact job but one of
his skills was he was an unbelievable carpenter he could just make incredible shit and so when
Steve was like maybe five six seven years old his dad made some cabinet or some armoire that goes
against the wall and when Steve thought he was finished his dad pulled it back out and like
shook his head and went and got the tools and started going to work on it again on the back
like the part you don't see and he's like dad what are you doing he's like it's perfect you don't
need to do it and he goes no there was like a there's some sort of like indentation here
or something like that and Steve said to him he said dad that's on the back no one's ever
going to see that and he said no you're going to know it's there though and if you know it's there
that's a horrible pattern and it'll never be right so that's why when you look at
apple you know one of the foundational things that Steve Jobs did turning them around was
the IMAX which he made and it drove the engineers nuts because they don't think like this at all
but he and Johnny I've made the engineers design the inset like both they designed it but he made
them work within the designs that he came up with for what the inside looks like including the parts
that even after their transparent design happens no one would ever see so when you if you're like a
tech guy and you take apart your apple it looks like a work of art inside no one knows it but it
does because it translates to the rest of the product they did this even before they created
that see-through plastic thing remember the round one with the round IMAX that's what I'm
that's exactly what I'm talking about and you could see you could see some of it there I don't
think you could see all of it but part of it was even before that model I believe because he came
back to the company in 97 but part of doing the whole transparent design there was quite literally
an example of transparency look at the work inside this isn't like a fucking windows
tossed together job because no disrespect to engineers they make the whole thing go and
that's important to remember but generalizing here engineers don't really think about design
they go look at discord case in point right like simplicity and engineers don't go together yeah
so you have to the reason apple was so great is because Steve married brilliance of engineering
with you know the teams he put together because he wasn't an engineer himself
with the simplicity of the final user right so when you went on to your ipod for the first time
he he wanted nothing more than two clicks away right and so that's how I think like that that
shit changed my life thinking about that and reading the books about johnny ive and stuff and
how these guys would look at stuff simplicity is like it's the most important thing and that was
that was what I was saying about your documentaries too your style I noticed that right away when I
was watching those for the first time you're you're very like it's easy to take in and it feel
you're doing it where it feels like you're doing a lot and you are because you're filming all this
stuff but with the final product it's actually right there in front of you it doesn't try too
hard it's not zooming in every two seconds on somebody it's not like trying to get some crazy
shot left and right it's like nope the drone goes right over the setting kind of like they did in
true detective boom boom boom dude I love that fucking show god damn you take it all in now you
feel like you're there I feel like I'm in Madera beach with all these with all these I was calling
doc hands it's deck hands yeah yeah with all with all these deck hands and then boom we're right in
front of shane go fuck yeah man it's like you did all that and the viewer they don't know why they
love that but that's why they love it because it's right there you know I stole a lot of that style
from uh Breaking Bad it's a great example yeah that's why that's why I got the most inspiration for
like that filmmaking shit those little documentaries that I've done in the past all of it from Breaking
Bad that makes so much sense now I did not put that together now I'm putting it together like all
those shots where he'll have the product like up whatever it is in front of you like up close like
they'll be taking the keys out of the locker you know the shot of like the key you did some that's
funny the best thing about Breaking Bad is like the way they shot that was they would mix so many
like super tight shots and immediately cut them with super wide angle shots so like they would
crazy by going back and forth between super like tight zoomed in shots to super wide shots
and uh I never go in the way that the way that it's it's weird you got to be like a like a
cinematographer I love that type nerd to understand this kind of shit but the way that that you kind
of use lenses can like have a dramatic effect on how people process the the documentary and that's
what I learned a lot I learned a lot about that from Breaking Bad what what are your other
main inspirations um kind of putting you on the spot sorry I don't know break I like uh true
detective the first season of True Detective was one of my favorite shows ever might be the best
season of tv ever made it really really was with Matthew McConaughey dude and Woody Harrelson that
was fucking will you shut the fuck up yeah you say the dumbest shit sometimes I'm trying to think
like what else was really good besides Breaking Bad True Detective um I don't know I can't think
of anything right now those two those two definitely like top five for sure but you know
like we were talking about earlier like transitioning from communicating shit with just
like lenses and like light light light and lenses is what it all it is then going into just like
something like this just talking back and forth and communicating with someone it's night and day
it's completely two different worlds yeah it's it's it's two different things and it's oh yeah it's
completely it's it's but it's kind of the same thing though it's kind of the same thing because
you're you're saying communication well one thing this is more of communication that I mean it's
both entertainment right it's both they're both forms of entertainment it's both forms of media
they're on the same exact medium they're both on youtube um you're kind of doing the same thing
like I'm like I'm not really interviewing you right now but when you're talking to somebody like
Shane Lee or like that girl Lady Kim you kind of just like I'm in a dark alley with a camera on a
tripod kind of having a conversation like this I'm cutting myself out of it right right I understand
and I can add in all this cool looking fucking b-roll music drone footage whatever it is to spice
it up and make it look better and give it more of a vibe more of a feel you know I mean watching
those things is more like a like a it's like a vibe like watching like a really cool music video
way different I understand what you're saying now I was thinking something else at the beginning
but yeah and and like you also it's a different it's a different kind of skill I mean it's a
different kind of intelligence I think but you here's the thing where I because we were literally
talking about this like right before we walked in yeah we got cut off but good spot to go back into
it first of all for all your fans out there who I assume have pretty much I mean I assume you've
seen deckhands at this point it's phenomenal but that fourth part in particular with Kim
some of the best and I the work best is not great but bear with me that is from my money
some of the greatest 15 minutes of storytelling I have ever seen in my life and it would seriously
though like a lot of that series it's sad and funny at the same time that one it almost appeared
for a second like it was going to be and then you see this woman's story and what happened to her
and the fact that you like you talk about oh I get to be behind the camera and designing all of it
you also had to of course you were there you can't control what's going to happen to her and
obviously some very advantageous things for filmmaking happen while you were with her just
be honest but you also while you're doing this you're talking with her and the the
shit you got her to open up about yeah I don't it struck me when we were talking outside you
don't comprehend how difficult that is because fuck man I mean the the heaviness of that I went
and looked it up after this I did tell you but for people who weren't there listening to us
when we were talking which is nobody um they I went up and looked up each one of those yeah yeah I
did and I saw the comment sections were like oh rip these people I'm like damn this was like
this is in the last like four five years they all died they all died and she died like three
months after this video the first one right so I go and I find her obituary now mind you
and for anyone who hasn't actually seen this this woman was she was molested by her father
from it was a cop who was a cop yeah she was a little girl from age four to seventeen right
you got the visual details of her explaining exactly how it went down he impregnated her
made her have the kid and took the kid from her and then she ran away and that's how her life got
out of control but first of all I mean that's like I don't even know what to say about that but
you also get all that on camera you capture this woman's tragedy I mean she had a horror anthology
series of a life just for the first 17 years and then the rest of it was just like a sad documentary
right right and first of all it reminds you of the perspective of all other people around you
because you're like you never know you never know who's been through what where they're from what
they're about you know there's good and there's bad with just about everyone besides Adolf Hitler
right so you know there's exceptions but by and large most people there's good and bad and like
with her when I went and looked up her obituary it just that hit me so heavy because it says
her name it says the day she was born in 1968 the day she died in 2017 and then
no one has come forward period and that's all it says I'm like okay somebody was inhabiting this
earth for 49 years based on the fact that you spent the first two minutes of the episode asking
a bunch of people where you could find her people knew her people knew who she was she had a nickname
she was arrested by cops sometimes they knew her the jail systems knew her you know she she grew up
somewhere she had some family there obviously not a good one but people knew her and she never had a
shot she said it on camera too you got her say this I never had a childhood and she that was tragic to
me because she actually knew that most people at least what I've seen people have tragedy like
they don't they know that but they don't you don't admit it right exactly but she was like
no I didn't have one it was taken from me because he would come out I'd hear his keys jingling and
I'd know he was about to rape me on the beach dude like the whole running down the beach yeah
the whole thing and like you get all this and I'm like if Danny had not gotten this 15 minutes
right here as a time capsule for anyone to watch in the future yeah this woman's life would be
Kim whatever her last name was I don't even remember it's bad but was born on this date died
on the state yeah Hollywood Kim yeah no one's come forward someone reads that 200 years from now
they go oh man nothing happened it's like well no a lot happened yeah and like we should learn from
that too like if people can some one person out there can take something from that and be like
oh I'm in a bad situation too like I don't want to end up like that or you know what about my friends
so and so they they don't strike me as well maybe I should talk with them you know that's
that's a tragic insane situation yeah what it happens things like that happen yeah it's weird
to it does so I think it does something to them to their minds when you kind of like immortalize them
on the internet because they all became like instant celebrities down there on the beach
everyone who people would come down from different states because this is a big transient tourist
area too a lot of people would come down like and see them at bars or come down to even try to find
them they come they go to my dear beach just to try to find those guys and then like when they go on
there like every time after we did those first episodes we kind of like we would always go down
there every couple months or every month like trying to catch up with them see how they're doing
and see what's up and they'd be like all they want to talk about is their video like my video
you should read that fucking comment on my video like what they love it like we do another video
and it was like it's I don't know what it does but psychologically it did something to them
you gave them purpose yeah I don't know if that was it they got a lot of joy out of it yeah you
gave and and like as sad as that seems because it's just a video out there that like some people
saw them and it doesn't change their circumstance or situation like it gave them something but I mean
it also like it it makes me think too like I can't help but think release that video Kim and she
dies too much two months later yeah I know it makes me think like like was there was that part of
the reason she might have died like did she give up after she realized her life was out there you
know I mean I think about that stuff sometimes wow now that you think about like you gave this lady
purpose whatever you want to call it you say that you know her story is now out there immortalized
everybody knows about it it's kind of like could that could she have given up after that somehow
maybe I don't know you're handling that well I'll tell you that because that's a heavy thing and
it's not you know sick though she yeah didn't she answer I was gonna say didn't she say she had
cancer she said that on camera I thought I heard that long to live well she had a according to
Shanley she had cunt cancer yeah yeah that was interesting that guy interesting straight to it
man he does not sugarcoat anything but yeah you listen to what she said I could see that like
that part at the end where she got I guess she got like kicked out of that house she was staying at
yeah or something which was like Jesus Christ you know I think she looked at didn't even look at the
camera but she's like just take me to the water yeah because that's where I forgot about that that
was she used to get raped on the beach because she would go to the water because the sound of the
water would give her comfort or something like that fucking wild as that dude and so in that moment
she didn't care that she was in some random documentary guys car that all went out the
window she didn't care if this weekend views on YouTube she was legitimately once again for the
millions time in her life broken and said take me to the water because I'll be all right there
and then she went to the water and for a minute she got her breath under her and then was actually
able to say something again and said a lot of heavy shit too but that could the way you put that
that could have been you know she was already very sick as you said like that kind of thing could
have been like the last testament of her life right and she never had never thought she was
going to get the chance but I mean she got to talk to her kid on there which right you know that
that's kind of what it hit me about it like thinking about like you put this message out there
directly to your kid and it's get it got I don't know how many views it got it mostly got like
almost a million views on that it got a lot documentary didn't get enough but it's like
almost like maybe she psychologically like that was the bow on it I believe I do believe in that
shit I think I think people I mean I think it's also I don't want to speak for anything I don't
have any studies in front of me but I think some of that's probably been supported by science like
sure the mental emotional tied to to physical life like why do some people get something off their
chest and then look up at the sky and take their last breath and die you know it's like oh we didn't
know they were going to go today and your mind is I mean think about like people who get diagnosed
with cancer who it's all like think about like when you go through that process you get diagnosed
you get told the doctor tells you you have this X amount of days to live most of them live up to
that exact amount of time the doctor tells them you know it's kind of like a mental self-fulfilling
prophecy when there are some people who are have the ability to like change their their state or
change who they are or whatever and like fight through it the rare people but I think I truly
do think that a lot of times when in those kind of situations we get diagnosed with cancer that
they believe that shit and they go down this depressive downward spiral because of the
this the psychology of that diagnosis is almost unbearable and it just kind of like adds kerosene
to the fire and helps you die quicker yeah look I don't think anyone can really know until
god forbid it happens to them but you can learn from watching other people deal with crazy shit
and how it how it molds them you know and like
her environment is what made her life and like on the one hand yeah do people have free will
can they make decisions yeah but who the fuck am I to judge somebody who got raped by their dad
like I can't believe she was still alive yeah she lived 48 years I can't believe
that's like plus 31 on the over right you know seriously like not to not to be like Calus about
it but crazy to me and I'll bet she wish she died you know like I just don't something like that man
I mean we got into this rabbit hole talking about your style but the way you put that together
and like even with the dark comedy on the front with the shame with the quotes oh my god like he
said that and that was the first video I watched oh was it really so I didn't know that was the last
episode you watched first and I was and I was like that's kind of wild and I didn't know where it was
going I saw the title so I'm like I was gonna be rich and then it gets to where it did and and again
it's I mean you talk about like different content on YouTube all different shit that has to compare
this is a 15 minute documentary this wasn't a feature film it took it took you 15 minutes
to get a snapshot like very vivid one of that took you 15 minutes to watch it
years to make it let's be very clear about that you were filming all night and all day with her
and the editing I know that but I'm saying like the final product that the person sees
like me who had no idea the story right right boom I mean that is so so I had Jim watch that too
did you yeah he called me up he's like holy and you know this guy seen the worst of the worst
the worst this guy was one of the lead interrogators globally for the FBI like he's seen the worst
of the worst and he's like that's fucking fucked up I'm like yeah and we just sat there in silence
for a minute he's like I just yeah that's insane well when you can when you can dramatic dramatize
it with music and timing and all that it makes it hit way hard but yeah you know if you strip that
thing of the music and the timing and some of like the just like it's everything about it just
like the color grading it just creates this full fucking effect and makes it hit you 10 times harder
yeah and and you're I mean even like on your podcast how how you do it like with the cameras and
some of the you know this is your expertise cinematography so like that's little minus the
editing minus the music minus the b-roll so it's like still though that's you have to be good that's
absolutely yeah but that's when people are coming into it they're expecting a podcast right right
they're not like exactly it's a studio it's back and forth so when someone's coming across a podcast
for the first time that's why it's so important they don't know who you are there's a million
podcasts out there they're going to give this maybe two seconds right screen comes on and they see
like the production and there's something there's just something that looks different about your
visual it's really wild how you do it and they're like what the fuck is this and the next thing
you know they just watch Roger Reza yeah I know you know it's like that's how it goes so it's but
look man I think I think you you married something that you wanted to do that you probably did more
than you realized which is talking with people and getting to the bottom of people's story and
and what they're about or what they think about things with you know also putting together something
that is produced in a visually beautiful way yeah for me I mean it's it's in some ways I'm like the
very opposite of you when I'm not at all analytical like not one bit like it makes my head hurt to
think about numbers and to like look at stuff and look at graphs and look at charts because like most
people who are doing this shit on YouTube or creating any kind of content on YouTube most of
them are very analytical and they like we were talking about earlier like like I'm going to do
more stuff like if this gets a lot of views I'm going to do more content like that or people in
the comments are saying you got to do this you got to do this you got to do this like I'm going to do
like what they say like most people do do that and I think that's that is contributes to a lot of
success on social media you got it you got it you got to do that you got to be good at doing that
and that's just something I've never been good at you were saying something else to me earlier though
before we were on here about doing what you want to do though versus doing what you think people
want and that's a in my opinion you know I only know from doing my own stuff so take that for
what it is that's something you got to marry right like if you're not doing something that you want
to do you might be able to pull off one piece of good content two pieces eventually like your
heart's not there so like the people who just kind of chase whatever the trend is it's why a lot of
them flame out versus like I haven't watched rogan in a long time but mr beast was on last week
and I cute that fucking oh really or like I don't know like three weeks ago or something I cute that
thing up right away that guy's a that guy's a fucking psycho he's a machine he is now he's
he won't talk analytical oh my god that man's analytical but he does he leans into things that
he enjoys right it's fun for him right so there's been he talked about videos in the past where
the guy's spending a million dollars on a video I was like now let's cut it yeah like you know I mean
he's not like well we made it it's it's analytically appealing let's put it he's like not a saying it
and I look at that I'm like scraps a million dollar video this guy's this guy's speaking might
no that's a little crazy I'm not a little that's a little crazy but he's also making you know
insane money so and then translating it and all those fucking languages dude yeah holy shit
that was an instant he is a machine he's a fact that was like I saw that and I'm like oh I got two
and a half hours mr beast talking let's hear that shit because like nothing else is going on you know
that there's gonna be little nuggets you can get from that and really I got like reassurance on a
few things too because he he talked about like the the attention map of people and how how you always
have to be testing how you have to figure out like this works versus like the smallest things like a
shade on a thumbnail and stuff like that and there's some of it like you know I'm running my whole
shop myself I can't do all this but the things I do a lot what I can I guess the things I can do
yeah I want to test with that stuff I definitely do that with my short content I'm always testing
like even like a one frame out of 24 pause that I normally wouldn't put in there like let's try
that because this is like second 24 of the video we've had six sentences said already we have the
context and setting placed I think people are wondering what's happening next so I can I can
afford that extra beat and people aren't gonna flick their thumb like that was the language he was
talking on there and so I appreciate the hell out of that like every single frame of every single
video like what has to go where to keep people on there and not from clicking off yeah that's how
you think about your short your short videos that you make yes because they didn't pick my video
the video's 99.9% of the people see it in their short speed it popped up every single person
is a gun owner on youtube and tiktok and the trigger is their thumb yeah or is the screen yeah
and the thing pulling it is their thumb and all they got to do that's their closing speed
right that's your background you have circled a comment on there a comment a youtube comment
oh no that's like an old tweet oh okay but like that's their closing that's about
one to two frames out of 24 right so they are every time you go on there every single person
has a gun in your face and I'm like we're ready to pull it oh yeah and my job is to not make them
pull it until the video is played and I'm out of the screen right so that's different than this
right I don't ever with a podcast bro we said it's just like you do it right that's why I really
like this like it's just like we literally for people listening out there we sat down we just sat
down fucking just started that's it you know there's nothing to it dude do you do you how old are you
29 29 do you remember when the first iphone came out
yes did you get the first one no dude that was like there's never been anything like when that
first iphone came out like going back to you talking about like when you were thinking about
like we were talking about Steve Jobs taking mushrooms or whatever and like creating crazy
shit like that moment when that I remember when my buddy bought that first iphone and I was like
looking at it holding it it was just like this is a huge like giant leap in technology like there's
never been anything even close to this before there's net it was the first thing with a touch
screen ever I think now did you hold it I don't know if you remember these details but did you
hold it like at all like when you were first looking at it where you just had it like that
and you didn't unlock it and you just looked at it yeah oh yeah I mean it's
it's a work of art the first one especially like the the first one was just like I mean even though
it was so fucking slow and like you could barely use the internet it took like 10 minutes to boot
up a web page and like just like looking at the text messaging and what the text looked like
because I went from a razor to that first fucking iphone shout out to the razor fan wow yeah shout
out to the razors no e on that word that was that was that was an error I had plenty of razors in
nokia brick phones yeah oh man and those things never died no the nokias that was the one thing
they were horrible but they net you can throw that shit against the wall they brought it back
actually did they really yeah and it has like a seven-day battery life or some shit on it sounds
like one charge like one week my aunt had one I think for 11 years yeah wow fucking thing she
never charged it once probably not sitting there playing snake yeah but yeah it's I I know what
you're saying and I also had like this customizable face plates on there like you get like gold face
plates remember you get different covers for your phone I don't remember that the nokia phones oh the
nokia phones the nokia ones yeah I don't remember that really no oh you can get all oh no I do remember
that yeah because you would like take you're talking about where it would go over the yeah the
keep the plastic shell yeah yeah that was or sorry it's it's fun he had sidekicks the Ironman
I had a sidekick to fire what was the other one the envy or whatever was it the end the thing that
would like slide out the Verizon made I don't know I didn't have anyone either too mobile the other
side I think I know what you're talking about but like you're talking about slow and stuff and clunky
like you know it was that but still like what were people working with at the time yeah and working
with a fucking like Blackberry 2 right like they're working with a razor like that shit that internet
basically went well it's like booting up what's that there's like a term for that um people talk
about sometimes the stagnation of tech you heard that term before yeah I know we're talking about
it stagnating like there hasn't been any crazy innovation in tech since that first like that
first iPhone came out and that was like fucking blew everyone's mind that's going to bother me
what the exact it is something try looking that up Austin that just stagnation google that term
it's more the the which law is it that's about exponential technology is that more Moore's law
is the one that says like things come back to center come back to earth but what's the one that
says technology increases at an exponential pace oh that's so bad that I can't remember that
because they've been trying to argue that we're finally you know they're always arguing new normal
with stuff oh we're finally reaching the point where we can't go at exponential anymore stagnation
just means slower problem well yeah I know it's stagnation um can you pull up technological stagnation
yeah yeah let's see that drop that drop down through the says uh we've made advancements but
the basic fabric of life remains broadly the same the lack of technical revolution has been labeled
the great tech stagnation some have gone as far as suggesting that all the big world changing tech
has been made the low hanging fruit has been picked that might that might be the actual term yeah I
just in my yeah the stagnation of tech I've heard that before what's what's the law and I don't know
if you can find that it's like if you type in like tech law of innovation it's going to piss me off
it's one of is it newtons it's not newtons maybe it's morse it's it's newtner morse I feel like
newtons law or morse law but yeah it says like technology always increases at that exponential
pace and eventually it has to not do that it's like level off yeah and so there's been people
arguing that like oh it's starting to happen and level off because every iPhone is essentially the
same fucking thing with like a little bit of a little bit of an update right I mean like the
cameras are different do they say it's lighter or faster whatever it is but like what about behind
the scenes though not just iPhones I don't know like what what do you mean behind the scenes you mean
like like non-consumer type stuff like right now I'm a consumer I mean like we don't have self-driving
cars on the road right the first car that successfully did like a decent job self-driving
was in 2006 we just don't know that I mean we know it but we don't have it because why
because Washington DC needs two trillion miles of data before they're gonna let one pen stroke
actually let something legitimately on the road without someone behind a wheel which in a way
some of that I guess you could say Tesla was kind of like a another kind of like an iPhone
moment in history and like technological history agreed for sure I mean today we're driving over
here into Tesla I'm looking at the gas prices it's like five bucks right you don't give a fuck about
that no I didn't want to spend the gas money driving Tampa you're good take the wife's Tesla
but yeah no I don't know I don't know there's like I feel like there's got to be something else
like another kind of like giant leap like that this was I mean it hasn't happened and when did the
first iPhone come out like 2007 2007 yeah yeah it's been a minute Jesus Christ now we have I will
say we have come a long way from that first iPhone but I agree with you since like the XR
the iPhone innovation seems to be more stagnant part of that's a company thing though too you
know Apple has enough money to buy 78 countries enough cash flow but
that's one call that I had wrong I was young when I made it I was like a teenager but when
Steve Jobs died I'm like the innovation just died mm-hmm I'm like all right let's give him a
couple years let's see and then a couple years later they hadn't innovated nothing and I'm like oh
they're gonna be dead they're gonna be dead in like five years like they're gonna because that's what
happens slowly and then all of a sudden now they had enough cash to be able to keep buying
innovation right but like think about new like Steve Jobs made things we didn't know we need
he said I'm gonna put your phone your music and your internet all in your pocket right boom right
I'm gonna put fuck a laptop you can and and a notepad you're gonna walk around with a tablet
and it's gonna be touchscreen and do all this crazy shit just like a computer I'm gonna put that
there there hasn't been anything like that since no they've made a watch they did make a watch but
it's a watch it's just this on the fuck on your wrist basically that's it and it's a watch right
that's been done before right I mean right like so I give them a lot of credit from a business
perspective they found a way to keep making the products even if it's more stagnant recently
they keep making them look better they still have the best products on the market I'm a mac guy
have no plans of leaving that but yeah like you don't have you don't replace Steve Jobs no
he was place Elon Musk you know definitely not so I think people like when I study Steve I'm like
well if we can pick out the best parts of him how he looked at the world maybe people in whatever
they do because I'm not you know I'm not out here building a tech company or anything but I'm like
maybe there's good ways to integrate that and when I read his his beliefs and simplicity
and like I love marketing as we've talked about like I'd go back and I'd look at their ads
which are we're always genius and I'm like oh that's it where there could be 10 words he made
two yeah right yeah where there could be three colors he said one would want with black text
right like he made you feel and think something by taking away right and so he and Johnny I've
like you talked about I asked you Johnny I've who is that who's that is that the guy with the accent
yeah yeah Australian accent or whatever was it was a British I think he's British I believe okay
but yeah Johnny I've Johnny I've in my opinion is the greatest industrial designer to ever live
he was the CDO chief design officer of Apple and the reason I asked you like if you just looked at
it in your hand was because that's what they did like they sat there and they pissed off every
engineer in the building because they're like no it has to look this way it needs to be an
infinity screen like I have a case on my phone they'd probably have a heart attack scene yeah that's
because they're crazy but I'm not gonna not have a case on this investment but like still like I try
to keep my case one of the ones that you can barely see it's around because I like the the art of it
but they sat there like you know they they still had to have the home button then but the rest of
it they wanted to be an infinity pool and then when Steve saw that a company in Delaware had invented
this also came up earlier when you and I were talking about had invented this patent
that allows just the slightest delay of the eye when you slide across on your home screen on Apple
he's like well we got to buy him because we have to do that like that's how it has to be so he bought
the fucking company you know like there was such a specific way yeah and he would not it drove some
people nuts but the people like his marketing company that advised them I forget what it was called
maybe like something in chow like that guy Ken Segal wrote a book about it that a third grader
could read which is very apropos called like simplicity is whatever just about his experiences
with Steve and like everything they did was just less right how do we do less and it's the hardest
thing to do yeah I mean he like the CEO the CEO of Apple now I mean he's he's definitely he's doing
a job right he's definitely fulfilling obligations but Steve wasn't treating it like that at all he
was treating it like like that was his child yeah that was that was him himself like yeah did you
hear the story about him the story about him like looking at one of the first iPhones maybe it was
the first one and he was on Google's website on the phone and he was like in like 1 a.m like like
late at night I forget but it was like a ridiculous hour and he was looking at Google and he was like
he called the owner of Google or one of the CEO of Google and he's like hey I think that oh the shade
of the red yeah and the oh is a little bit off on the iPhone can you double check I have heard
like that's just insane yeah that's how he thought you gotta be fucking crazy that's how he thought
and it was like you do gotta be crazy but also like if you're just wired that way you know
and some of this stuff like people out there when you read it maybe a lot of people don't on some
things but a lot of you you think about some of this stuff you just don't realize it like I never
realized how I thought about text for example like how text looks I was always very exact about that
when I would do something that was probably another sign I was a creative person and just didn't pay
attention but like I'd always be like no no why does that why does that T have the bar at the bottom
and I never thought about what sans serif and serif was which I always get them mixed up but one
is where it's continuous meaning like if you have an F it's just the lines the other is where it'll
have like a design on the back end of the lines like a like another line you know what I mean
like a little swirly at the end yeah like a little like loopy whoop some just something that
makes it not continuous so they add right so like apples text see this right here see the A up on
the screen on N oh yeah yeah yeah see the bottom of the A yeah it has bars the little line right
that's either I think that's serif right right and then sans yeah that would make sense sans is without
right in latin I don't know but sans serif is like apples text where it's just the A and like
shit like that he studied that stuff he actually knew it I never fucking crazy dude but the stuff
he never paid attention to yeah like then I'd be like oh that's why I always would use this text
on snapchat instead of right yes exactly that's it yep if people can see this right now if you're
listening yeah google sans serif and serif but yeah like he thought all those details and I don't know
maybe that's like part of the analytical thing too so and maybe that's why do you think he was
super analytical or do you think he was just really he was he was both he was a mix he was very
who's very artistic and he would deny analytics when it came to the final vision so like if someone
said to him Steve the data says the people don't want that wave screen he'd say fuck what they want
I know what they want right I do that too with things oh the data says people don't want this
kind of music on a clip and I'm like fuck what they want I know that hits this is what I want
this is what I want right then it hits right right so it's like a yin and a yang like yeah it's
hard you probably I definitely get it wrong sometimes and he definitely got it wrong sometimes
but like when you're right I mean conviction in the in the eyes of or in the face of pushback
is very very difficult what you just good at that what do you think he would say if he was
live today about all the criticism about slaves building his phones and mining the
fucking minerals for his phones in China um I think I feel like he would have done something
about that yeah well I think he would have been I think he would have been fired a CEO because
I think he would have been he would have said something way too blunt oh yeah yeah he wouldn't
survive in this in this culture where we're living in right now for better or worse and trust me
for sometimes it was for worse because he really didn't give a fuck you know he had flaws but like
yeah people say he was ruthless he would tell you what he thought you know and like think about
that and he died in 2011 front end of twitter culture right like people think he's still alive
some people think he's how many people think he's still I saw instagram posted I think I sent it
to you it's a bad start where was it in in Egypt the guy sitting at a coffee shop in Egypt they
said it was Steve Jobs I did I've seen that's a famous how is it yeah I still think Tupac might
be alive yeah that's my that's my little rabbit hole one but yeah I mean he he probably wouldn't
have lasted in this environment and that's more of a compliment than there's certainly some detraction
I'd say to that because he really like he'd say he was hard to work for but his style apparently was
he wanted to rip you like in ways that every HR person in America would have a heart attack
today but like he expected you to do that back to him so like the people who would be like you
know what Steve I'll see your insult and raise you this one he'd be like great like you know
that you know the movie Ted where he's teddy bear with Mark Wahlberg yeah where he's trying to get
fired by the guy and the guy's like you fucked an employee in the back of the store yeah and
you did it on top of a frosted flakes and he's like and I raw dog there and he's like we need more
of that you're promoted yeah yeah that's kind that's an exaggerated version but that's the way I've
read it I didn't know the guy but that seems to be right right kind of how he was hmm I don't know
I don't know I don't know you think they're ever gonna start making these things in America though
it's a great point you bring up I mean they would only cost like $12,000 that's that's the problem
someone said to me though that I don't know who said this to me so I also don't remember
how credible this could be but someone was saying to me that there are ways to do this
that A aren't in China and B are not slave labor but it's other countries over there maybe like
Cambodia I don't know like something like that where it's very cheap it's still not ethically
the greatest but the distance that that cheap labor will go for those workers in that in those
economies as farther than where it's going now yes it's also not in an authoritarian regime
like that don't talk about that this is favorite country is China that's your favorite country
it's his favorite places ever but he's been to China he says there's nothing bad he can say about
it you've been to China yeah when'd you go uh long time probably 10 years ago where'd you where'd
you go in China uh stayed in Guangzhou went to Hong Kong for a little while is that Guangzhou's
like southeast yeah that's where they make all the uh that's where they make all I think that's
like the hardware city I could be wrong about that really yeah I I remember that did you stay in
like a city you say in like a six by six box right they say in a super small yeah I mean it's like
New York bro it's like everyone's apartment it's like it was like New York China was like New York
yeah I don't know how much I like that Chinese version of New York it's like oh it's just all
China people and tall buildings nobody has a house you know oh okay all right see we're
saying in that aspect yeah it's just tiny apartments and how many people are in that city
fuck I don't know tons can we look that one up tons what's the name of the city again population
guangzhou it's guanzhou that's one of the play that I don't know if that's where fox con is I don't
think so but that's there only one fox con as far as I know guan I don't know maybe another g and
then like zh o but it's yeah it's on the southeast coast there and that's where pull up on a map I
can't even that was in the that was in the one autobiography or not what about those in I think
Walter Isaacson's biography where he talked about Steve visiting there really and like some of the
deals they made but there's you know to your point there's the problem with like slave labor I don't
even know if it's all in China might be in other places too I'm not sure about that but big country
yeah it's a big country you didn't see any suicide and that's when you were there yeah that's the other
one yeah that's it 13 million almost 14 14 million and New York's what like seven in Manhattan yeah
probably yeah it's big city move a lot of people a lot of fucking people that's the thing population
of Manhattan that's the thing they got going for them over there they got lots of demographics
are important what do they do about what do they do about uh you can't have what can't have daughters
now or you can only have one daughter what is the rule well that was 1.6 million in Manhattan wait
what holy shit wait it's seven million in all of New York City so all the boroughs put together
no way trying to it's that low now try to snap in bro I'm gonna just sound like a moron I wasn't
trying to all of New York 8.4 okay yeah see that fuck I never I never thought about that
but that's well how big is guanjo compared to Manhattan
what if it was the same fucking size I don't know it's probably not no it's probably like it's probably
like the size of New York that's a lot smaller than Manhattan it's half the size I mean Manhattan
because that includes all put that many people and this smaller than the 8.4 million includes
all five so it's Manhattan Staten Island down south which a lot of people that's like kind of
like the island borough Bronx Brooklyn Queens I would have thought it was more but I guess I
always looked at that wrong I just sounded like a fucking moron but what is the size of um just
pull it up on a map well well manhattan's I think it's like the seven mile island right seven mile
maybe I'm wrong about that too I don't know can you find out the square the square what do you
look for a square mileage of Miami or not Miami but the Miami square mile is just 35 miles we look
that up one time really yeah like the square you're like the one with the unit really no we look
that up on a podcast what's the square mileage of Manhattan and then find that find out the square
mileage of all in New York maybe guanjo yeah that's gonna be interesting watch it be like two miles
22 square miles is Manhattan is Manhattan so that think about that that means greater New York
city which includes all the boroughs is a lot bigger than Miami way bigger yeah yeah because
that's already 22 just manhattan double triple the size and I mean Staten Island is enormous in
of itself right right but then what's guang ju guang joe square mileage I'm ready to go back
he loves fucking china I don't think I'm allowed in China I'm definitely not allowed in Russia I'll
tell you that that's not happening I love this picture by the way it's an all-time oh yeah all-time
2800 holy shit pull up the map pull up the map well wait a second that's a province what well no
the province is the opposite of what I think it would be oh it's big bro yeah that's huge can you
go back for one second Andy just wear that said uh awesome you see yeah it's awesome awesome I've
been calling you Andy this whole time I owe you I owe you a 30 man I did just meet you like right
before but that's still like that's disgusting I'm sorry I won't forget that now pig but yeah
so why does it say province oh yeah see the province has a k at the end I didn't see that
so the province is like the entire region so that's 68 thousand oh yeah so that doesn't count
but still okay at the end 2870 I just said Miami 35 that's fucking nuts isn't it so that's actually
not that crazy that has a 13 million population it's still a lot but I bet you most of that is in
one area probably like New York you know probably yeah because I wonder if like is that where Foxconn
is what's what what uh province is Foxconn what the hell is Foxconn that's the factory they make
the iPhones oh yeah where they got the nuts the suicide network yeah yeah Danny sent me that video
I saw I thought started telling them all this shit about China we had this guy on the podcast
and started telling us all this crazy shit about China who was that it was Matt oh it was Matt
Kyle it's like dude you have Europe if you fucking commit any kind of fraud it's death in China yeah
yeah oh it's look I think people forget and tell me we're all like we should always be trying to
make the system better and I am definitely a hypocrite because I complain about a lot of shit but
god damn is it a lot better here than yeah pretty much anywhere else yeah you know and like we can
still again like say well it's fucked up that we do this or do that but the alternative I mean
some of these places you know I had this guy on here a couple weeks ago he was talking about we
we started we started talking to Andrew Bruce DeMonte episode love that guy he's great I started
questioning him about Julian Assange and I was like I was like what do you I'm like what do you
think about him like what do you think about his whole story and then he talked about Snowden and
he's like like do you think what he did was wrong I'm like what's your beauty's like obviously he
thought what he did was wrong but then he started talking about like the levels of civilization
he's like he started explaining to me that actually made me kind of like take his position on it
yeah can you say what this I listen to all three of his podcasts but can you explain this again
yeah so what he was explaining he's like basically I was like don't you think that it's right would
like Julian Assange was just basically exposing like the most fucked up secrets that should be
exposed to like create more of a balance in the world right like you should if someone's
committing such a fucked up atrocity and hiding it what is the harm in exposing it to make them
better and make them account start being more accountable for their actions to create more of
a balance across nations yes yes um and he goes no I'm like why he's like and then he said do you
have kids and I'm like yeah of course I have kids like well do you tell your kids everything that
you do and I'm like I'm like okay I kind of see where you're going with that I remember this now
and then and then he's like he started explaining the the hierarchy or the pyramid of a state
the formation of a state he's like if we're all free roamers he's like I could club you over the head
take your wife and there's nothing you can do about it but if we form a tribe now you're protected
by your tribe so we can go out and we can kill the food and the wife the wives could stay home
and pick the berries and if somebody comes in tries to steal one of our wives you have the power of
the tribe to protect to protect us and take care of each other and then he's like once you get above
the tribe you have the creation of the state and he's like when you have that you know you
call it like a pyramid right he called it a pyramid yeah um and he started to explain it and it made
a lot of sense he's like and then the other point he made which I don't know if this is true or not
because I know there's a lot of like he said she said there's a lot of it's hard to know the truth
but he said that Julien Assange wasn't fair with the shit that he exposed he said he only
exposed American shit yeah if he would have exposed Chinese and Russian shit just as much as he
exposed American shit it wouldn't be he maybe not he might not have that same position on
Julien Assange that same that same view on him but he was only anti-American people should turn
off this podcast real quick and go listen to that latest one you did with him yeah yeah because
that was an unbelievable podcast the last one you just did on like Ukraine and all that yeah yeah
where this conversation happened that podcast like I was thinking about that one a lot and I
didn't understand the word you were saying like the levels of society but once you started explaining
that this was one of the key moments of the podcast where I was like yeah whoa his point was like
like right now everyone everyone is like we're losing our freedoms we're losing our freedoms and
we don't have freedom of speech we don't have this freedom to do that we're wearing our masks
are taking my freedoms and you know he's like you have to the only people that are truly free
is that tribe on that island and off the coast of Africa that have nothing but spears and he's like
you have to if you want to be a part and participate in this community that we've created you have to
be okay with giving up freedoms you know what you know his argument was it was the ultimate
swallow the pill argument like that's how I pictured it because it was a galaxy brain argument
that maybe they came up with the CIA headquarters and he and he very well retweeted himself there
I don't know but I like how that guy talks I appreciate how blunt he is I mean he really
says a lot of shit right on your podcast that similarly to Jim from his perspective and whatever
I'm like wow like I can't believe he's saying that but that one sent me spinning because
it's the and I could see like let's assume he is speaking for the good people at the CIA
or in the government right and I always try to use this example but you have to remember
these agencies for every 10 people who are in the room nine of them might be great people
who are like there for the right reasons good people all about freedom of America trying to
do their job to protect our interests even if once in a while like they overstep something
they're they don't think of it that way and they're not going after domestic people you know and
they're trying to protect like their intentions are good but if you have one bad person out of those
10 it's all it takes you know like oh now we're allowed to do this we're gonna take it a mile
farther which is whatever Snowden talked about and that's why I disagree with a lot of Andrew's
overall opinions on guys like Snowden and Assange however I appreciate that he doesn't
there was one argument that's the usual lazy argument with Snowden like he did the right
thing the wrong way I've heard that one before but the rest of it he makes you think
because he's putting the ball in your court and saying well which one do you want like you can't
and and I guess the point is he tells you unfortunately there's there's nothing that
exists that is 100% and actually in the scope of the world he's right about that it's like
there's good and there's bad you're never gonna have a perfect situation so he's saying are you
willing to give up a couple of these things which immediately when you say are you willing to give
up a bunch of people out there go you will not infringe on my rats exactly exactly right away
like fuck this deep state shit yeah and I don't know why I do that in southern accent but it's
always funny because they all have southern accents yeah yeah yeah but like you know they
freedom they immediately go to that but his intent with that like you just laid out what he said on
on Assange he is statistically right that Assange's stories more target are the ire is the United
States government now here's the double edge of that on the one hand you want to be honest to improve
right you can say hey we're great this is a great place democracy freedom America we love it
but we want to fix some things too we don't do everything right so how do you do that you draw
attention to it how do you draw attention to it a guy like Julian Assange exists and draws
attention to it at the CIA you recognize that all these other countries around the world
they don't have these out of bounds lines to play no so you're who are you trying to protect the
American people against every day trying to protect them against China against Russia name the big
countries right who don't have these rights and you know that if China doesn't like something that
said they just kill you and you're pissed off because China just using that example they're the
biggest one communist government doesn't have freedom of speech doesn't have all this shit what
do they do they use their money and their influence to take advantage of the fact that we do so we
can share this stuff and so then it puts the focus on us and makes us divide from within
rather than keeping the focus on them and killing people for stealing a chocolate bar
or not preventing or not allowing people to say the words houston rockets on social media
because daryl moore said something about hong kong right right so now the focus comes on the
american citizens are online talking about america and and again for the right reasons
we want to improve things that are bad but then the cia where these other places realize that
then the focus is off the target and they want to get the focus back on the target and they just
want people to shut the fuck up and know that like hey we're gonna fix a few of these things
even if they're not which is the danger right like took 11 years before edward snowden was the guy
who came out and said something no one ever said anything that you know they violated the constitution
right thanks to dick cheney for like 11 years patriot act yes started with that went the stellar
wind boom boom boom boom boom and finally someone said okay we're gonna talk about this right and
so that's why like his side note his argument about he did the right thing the wrong way
number one i'll bet there were at least a couple people who brought that up before the right way
you never heard from them maybe they were never heard from again true right i also don't see how
that gives countries like russia or china an advantage over us or how it puts us in danger to
those countries by by saying that the u.s government spying on its own people he's saying that by
holding our government to a way higher standard than we hold theirs because it's here it's on our
turf it's our people we're all about optimism freedom democracy by doing that you are taking away
our ability to keep our eye on the prize and do our job and operate in a way that by the way
includes fucking up elections and putting other people in office like the same shit we accuse
people of doing here which they do interfere in our election process through like the internet and
things like that like as far as russia and china will put out all kinds of social media information
to get people talking like this is backed by data rene the rest has been on every podcast in the
world talking about it right like we act like oh they're the only ones doing that but we do that
too and when we're doing it this is we're good and evil it's like well what is good and evil is it
good you know if we stop like some crazy dictator from going into power that's supposed to be good
right but what is what if we're not good it's like it gets really complicated and so what he's
saying is if you make us play to such a higher standard in the intelligence universe to under
the ground like spooky stuff we're going to lose to these guys because they don't have to play by
those rules right and as much as i disagree with the idea because i'm very glad edwards and i love
what edwards note and did very much a brilliant reporting by the way by by glenn greenwald and
and laura portras and everything i love that we got that which we did more with it as a people
kind of forgot about it but you know it's hard for me to not also understand where he's coming
from with that you know and so i get here and i'm like and this happens all the time with me
probably drives some people nuts when they listen to the podcast and we have issues like this like
i see it both ways i really do like that's my curse in life like i don't really it can be both ways
it can both things can be true like you said yeah yeah but that was you getting him to lay that out
that was like some of the best podcast content i've ever heard because i was like i was walking my dog
and i didn't realize we were like seven miles into the walk i didn't know where the fuck i was
and i'm just like thinking about i'm like oh shit i gotta go back but it was just like
you have to give it to him he laid out a very difficult which pill you taken scenario doesn't
mean he's right but i also couldn't definitively say he's all wrong
what was the what was the uh the project solar went or what was it called solar
wind stellar stellar winds what was that one so fucked up man stellar wind was essentially
i don't know is it a project or a code i don't know what the term is but it's the thing that
snowed and exposed so after the patriarch
i think stellar wind now i'm gonna forget it on camera here but i think stellar wind was the one
where wartless surveillance yes yes exactly exactly so this was dick chainie's baby of course right
and it allowed them to basically spy on anyone at will so all these things we have sitting in front
of us even when it's off i think unless it's powered down mic still a hot mic i can hear everything
we say right now i mean i'm fucked i don't know about you i'm fucked but you know there's a lot
of people out there who say i don't give a fuck what they have because i'm not doing anything wrong
i hear you i think the same way even if i say fucked up shit sometimes and throw out crazy
ideas when i'm high but by and large everyone's gonna say something wrong on there it's just like
in the future like what what could be done with that what could be taken we see context like
how much shit gets taken out of context what what happens when you know the orwellian world
if that were ever a thing actually happens right is that used do you want them having that power
do you care that technically and i say the word technically there because i'm looking at it like
maybe from boost amante's point of view technically we're infringing on your constitutional rights
completely but we're not doing anything with it we're only going after the goddamn terrorists
that's what he said now watch this drive that's one can we put that clip in the corner so let's
play that real quick find the george w bush interview about about uh about terrorism
on the golf course that is the best that is the best thing that administration on dick cheney
however george bush did hire him i will forever say though george bush darkest this is what's
funniest i don't know that he tried to be but he was humorous yeah just looking at him and
watching him his facial expression the way he moved his mouth that's us yeah
we will we will find you and we will kill you if you're not with us you're with the terrorists
the best is now watch this drive the best is the mission accomplished picture behind him
like two weeks before we're done fellas 20 years later oh my god oh what an administration
wait till you watch that fucking 9 11 documentary i sent you yeah yeah you keep telling me i gotta
watch that yeah this is it this is it yes press play you might have to fast forward a little bit
absolutely fantastic you gotta press play there you go if you're harbor and terrorist there you go
skip you're either with us or against us uh yeah how long is this oh it's a minute where is this at
where i don't know that's a good question no it's not florida oh it's already funny is that
delaware a delaware the place you golfed at delaware not him here it is in israel
look at the hands
are there cue cards up back there i think they're on well there's just a random press conference
on the ninth hole watch this i've seen you're under attack we must stop the terror he's out of
all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers
holy shit oh i gotta see the drive now oh that is yeah i think there's like a video cut where
they cut right he fucking pipes this thing right down the fair whoo look at a finish
oh he's reaching for the maybe mulligan he's reloading he's reloading
sitting back not giving a fuck in the world just imagine
oh that's a nice fucking golf course look at that fuck yeah yeah where is that
is this saying the description i wonder what golf course though it's in iraq yeah it's
yeah golf course in iraq no i don't know where that was but still like that's
that's typical bush man i don't know he's he was he was a soundbite everywhere he's in what's he in a
he's in a jacoal song too is he at the drop which song is that where he's like i'll tell you one
fool me won't shame on me fool me twice shame on you
doom
he does have some of the best fucking quotes of all time
it's just what was uh and then the khanye west while he was in office
george bush hates black oh yeah yeah yeah he's just like khanye staring at the screen
and mike mire's just like oh what the fuck uh operation kino like oh my god wasn't that during
like s and l or something i don't know it was some live feed or so it was like a live
it was like a live feed or something could you imagine bush in the social media era i mean
we saw it with trump and what that was i mean we're seeing it would buy it again but like imagine
that guy with that situation and oh my god because it was the stakes were so insane when that all
happened oh yeah memes would have been awesome yeah i wish i was like paying attention to shit back
then yeah you know i was really young but i wonder what it was like like do you think there was a
lot of a lot of people aware of all the bullshit going on like nowadays when you see shit happen
like this russia ukraine thing going on there's so many different views there's not one narrative
there's fucking like 14 narratives about this whole this whole conflict going on i wonder if
it was like that in the pre-social media days like during the during 9 11 in the war on terror
like was there people actively thinking like wow this could have been an inside job you know
this could be all a fucking uh you know there were a few people yeah another person out there for
everybody to see there were some people you can't you can't share ideas ideas can't go as viral as
they do now no no i mean it didn't the internet was www.whateverthefuck.com at that time you know
like there was it was like the dial-up speed so it wasn't like that but yeah i know there were
some people right away i mean just statistically there had to be it's just i can't imagine
dealing with that in the social media era and like you talk about what the narratives were
compared to what we're seeing outside right now with russia ukraine i mean look at how many senators
and congressmen supported the war not the war in afghanistan which even today i could say like
yeah you had to go to taliban was harboring these guys like you had to go over there the war in
iraq though look at all the people who voted for that this was a bipartisan thing right i don't
remember the exact numbers but it was skewed right and there may be some like typical stereotypical
politicians who are still in office today who suck but there were a few even among the ones who
suck who actually did vote against that and i will give them credit for that maybe maybe they
did it for the wrong reasons but they did they voted against it yeah because like
you know david satter and i were talking about this and the whole wmd thing and he's like well
you know the israeli and and russian intelligence both thought there were wmd there too i'm like
yeah but hindsight's 2020 but our intelligence like we knew it was bullshit we knew it was like
a no percent chance they talked about iraq like the night of 9 11 they're like well iraq definitely
has something to do with this right and the thing is like trump said more stupid shit than you could
ever count on the campaign trail in 2015 2016 there were a couple things he said that were
kind of inarguable though and what and it was funny too because he's just a comedic kind of guy but
like he said i remember this line he would repeat this over and over like all his other lines but
he would say sundown who's saying bad guy bad guy killed terrorists bad guy killed terrorists
you know we shouldn't have done that and it is true sundown was an awful human being he was
genocidal maniac right and this is the horrible we can relate this to what's going on right now too
by the way but like this is the horrible reality unfortunately there are some really bad people
in the world and you can't technically police all of them at all times right like what happens
within someone's borders sometimes like the will of the people just like communism eventually fell
like david was saying it was like 15 percent of the soviet union society that was responsible for
that happening that's all it took sometimes the will of the people even in a small percentage
for good has to rise up to stop like the absolute epitome of evil whatever that evil is right and
like with saddam he wasn't friends with al-qaeda in fact he didn't like them right he killed him
right right so it had nothing to do with 9 11 it was a money thing for sure i mean everything's
money let's be honest but you know it was it you talk about like the white eyes eyes and hour
speech on the military industrial complex i mean there you go mm-hmm that's what it was and like
i mean i did you see the movie vice adam mckay did it no a few years ago no i heard about it
yeah now obviously anytime someone really buys does something people discredit him whatever
right so i guess adam mckay is like very very very liberal or whatever but like he did a movie on
dick cheney you know some of it probably took a little comedic effect because it was supposed to
be kind of funny like dark comedy but very accurate man really yeah like very very what does he talk
about it just walks you through his life and like how it all happened and again take some comedic
stretches but this guy was just i mean he was in control in that white house i don't know what
kind of pictures he had a george w bush has some because i mean another thing people don't talk
about and like when they did the 20 year documentary where bush was in it cheney was in it everyone was
in it on apple this past year for september 11th you know there's more than incredible evidence
it's kind of obvious that dick cheney broke the ultimate law on september 11th he ordered
the shooting down of a civilian jet if it was coming towards washington dc and they asked him
because the president was not incapacitated he was in air force one so the vice president is not
acting president right now right and they said is this a presidential order and he and he like
without saying it kind of i guess like kind of like erin rogers like i've been immunized
he did the same i've been presidentialized or like something like and he hadn't been
he should have been out of office right there and he wasn't when he ordered the shoot down
of a commercial jet if it was flying towards the white house if it was flying towards i think
he gave whatever the military go ahead was and people please google this to check this out exactly
what it was but he gave the military go ahead i believe for the fighter jets that were in the
sky to actively shoot down a civilian jet that wouldn't respond or something to to air force
control right and that's you know and and it sounds like even for him it was a heavy thing
but like he gave the order right and it wasn't he wasn't allowed to do that i've never heard that
yeah and like they talk about it openly like see what i what i what i heard was especially in that
9-11 documentary they talk about how he gave specifically in order to not shoot down the jets
that the jet that was coming towards the pentagon the jet that the the jet that was coming towards
the pentagon did some crazy big loop and it was it was not communicating vfr for like a long time
and they knew something was fishy with that plane with the with the flight that it was take the flight
path that it was taking and there was a communication with the guy that was under under chainie who
they were in some sort of like a command room and uh they talk about the kid the kid he was a kid
at the time he keeps coming into the command room where chainie was in he goes sir the plane is
uh 50 miles out and he's like okay stand by so the kid goes back in the other room he comes back
you know about the pentagon plane about the pentagon listen to the audio yeah then he's like
he's like okay the plane is is uh 30 miles out does the order still stand he's like yes
the kid disappears comes and this is all recorded and this was this was they would test this was
this whole situation was um talked about like during the 9-11 commission and like under like
in front of congress or all that kind of shit like they really interviewed the guy that was in
the room and he talked about it and he changed his story um and he comes in again he's like okay the
plane is 10 miles out does the order still stand sir does the order still stand like he was like
panicking visually like sweating and dick chainie was like yes the order still stands like barked
like like yelled at him and never ordered to have the plane shot down or anything like that
like he there was an order to not have the plane shot down now i have to see this i have not seen
this documentary i still have to watch this but off the top of my head
because there's a lot time there's a lot time back here yeah off the top of my head loosely
paraphrasing what was happening but that was the gist of it i believe this could be a situation
it could be i don't know i have to see it where they are re where they're changing the context
because i believe the context was this is all recorded and he was saying this about the jet
that was approaching like that you have the order to shoot it down if it gets closer and then it
never came to that because something happened in shanksville they took it down right the people
took it down like they turned the plane right down into the ground unless conspiracy had on
if they get shot down we just never admitted that in this documentary they they basically
try to prove that that plane that came down to pennsylvania uh in that big open field that that
was shot down by that would be very very hard to cover up that would be so so now look it's been
done before you can ask him about twa 800 he was you should ask him about that is that that flight
that 96 okay the one that flew up he was on that investigation i believe his job was
one of his main jobs was to interview all the expert pilots like that they could get their hands on
and run through every scenario and every single pilot to a t told him it got shot down and that's
not what the official story was so it's not like this hasn't happened but i believe that was like
over the ocean or something maybe i i'm not sure about that i have to check that but we're talking
about the same plane right that was twa 800 in 1996 i believe oh right okay i was talking about
the one on september i know okay so i'm coming back to september 11 now this was overland right now
best possible type of area for the least amount of people is more rural area but it was overland
they'd have to cover every witness there and get them quiet in an open society you know there's
shit that happens but like this is still an open society there were cameras everywhere the media
would have had to be in on it period which you know some cynics would say well that's not hard but
this is too this was a different time you know and the power of the media was not as what the
internet wasn't the thing like it wasn't it wasn't as coordinated it didn't have the ability to be at
the time so like furthermore the evidence on the ground like there's so much that has to be there
but like here's what i always say with the 9-11 thing and again i gotta i gotta watch the one
you you tell me but i think
we have been so fucked over six ways to sunday over the last 20 years in a way that our nation
hasn't been fucked over since the great depression and before that the civil war and before that
the revolutionary war that of course naturally we all turned to things to try to make sense of it
and speak truth to power and call out where bad things happen which we should do by the way that's
a positive trait i try to live like here though where i listen to a guy like andrew who i think
has the right intentions obviously smart guy talented guy and i try to listen with a critical
ear and a grain of salt and a guy like jim too you know and also try to hear where there's truth
where there's not bias right there's some things where there's not with september 11 i think one
of the things that we gotta remember is that like everything that's complicated which is most things
in this world there's a lot of things that are true at the same time so it can be true that planes
flew into buildings and the people who were in power might have been horrified at you know that
day and what happened but they took advantage of it they did a whole bunch of shit that they had
you know deep state had wanted to do for a long time right caused ground-altering precedents to
happen that we have to live with today and we've seen all the tentacle after effects of this at
the same time and this part is true this is confirmed you ever seen the looming tower no
okay this was a book and then it was a 10 part mini series on hulu like five years ago i think i
watched the first episode all right phenomenal okay so this is true the fbi and the cia did not get
along right right right so part of the reason i look at it i'm like not an inside job is because
we do have a record the cia cofer black and another guy who has a fake name because he's undercover to
this day with the cia went to the white house on i think it was july 6 2001 sometime in july
two months before we have the minutes we have the write-up they're saying they're coming here
it's happening right right they knew it the problem was alex station which was the bin laden unit at
the cia would meet with the counterterrorism fbi unit the national security advisor i think his name
was richard or william clark something like that and some of the generals every week in washington
to share information and the guy who represented the fbi was a guy named john o'neill who is the basis
of the looming tower you can ask him about him he didn't have the greatest reputation because he was
a ladies man he had like three wives at the same time it was kind of interesting like guy of the
brash didn't give a shit about anyone but himself but he was a pretty good agent but he was a cop
like he wanted the arrest he wanted the arrest how does cia operate they want information
they see a guy that they get in and they don't want to put handcuffs on them they want to say
we got you six ways to sunday you work for us now yeah right and now they get to a bigger fish
so naturally john o'neill cia didn't get along so the cia and we know this this is a fact the cia
did not share a lot of information with the fbi including when some of these targets entered
america which right just so this is where you will get people to come in and be like they
made it happen and all that right the thing is so many things had to go right that day that they
would have never left out of their control like these guys had to successfully get through every
level of security where we know they had a couple close calls we know for a fact that the guy up in
main on the initial flight at six a.m almost stopped Muhammad Atta and didn't let him on the jet
cia it would have never let that happen like this would have been like i and these guys had gone
right through right they would have their own stand in there at the at the tsa and then you know
we saw all the planes go in the one people always talk about is the pentagon because there's only one
weird you know 140 pixel footage of them and really see a plane right but you know we we saw
my favorite people are the ones who are like those weren't planes going into
twin towers like dude we have a trillion angles of it it's i'll show you they're definitely playing
it was a plane right so all these things can be true at the same time and then the government the
bad actors in the government in which case i would argue the people in power that was some of the most
corrupt inside government we've ever had at one time i think at least of what we know in history
you look at cheney you look at romsfeld you look at all these guys right they took advantage of it
and then they made money off it it went to iraq it wasn't good enough to go to afghanistan
you know we did a great job in afghanistan for five minutes before you know without getting
been lied and that was the one thing that sucked you know for like symbolism purposes we eventually
got him but then you know one thing obama said that he was spot on about is he's like we took
our eye off the ball now it's easy to say that seven years later you know politically easy to say
but it's true we start focusing on iraq right and now look what happened with afghanistan
you know it's really sad like you know there's some extremists there but then there's a lot of
innocent people who are caught in the middle of this who were never given a chance once we did go
in there it's like well now they can be liberated they can go to school they don't have to live in
this crazy society and we allowed a power vacuum to form because we took away our resources from
there and we sent them somewhere for you know bush wanted to finish his dad's job or i don't know
what the fuck who knows but a lot of things can be true at the same time and i just always try to
keep that in mind so like i'll watch i'll look at something like that because i'm always curious
but i don't i've that's one i've never put credence into you know you want to talk abstein of course
like that guy didn't kill himself you know there's certain things that are just you could tell like
they make it so obvious which is sad that people can't see the latest person that killed themselves
john louis john louis brunel yeah yeah the french model agency guy now you want to know about that
one that's so interesting to me jeffrey ebbstein killed himself in the wee hours of a saturday morning
in august august is statistically i believe the slowest news month of the year we know that saturday
friday after 10 p.m on friday before one or two p.m on saturday that is the slowest statistical
news time of the week this man killed himself at 2 a.m in a jail aren't looking at their phones or
watching the news yeah in a jail where the camera's malfunction the security wasn't there the acting
there the attorney general at the time's father is the guy who gave this dude his first job ever
like you can't make this shit up and at least people were somewhat on it then
so now john louis brunel spends whatever it was two years almost a year whatever it was
in some french prison so not here he kills himself in the wee hours of a saturday morning in france
on the weekend of president's day weekend in america so it's a three-day weekend
in the early morning hours without a camera on he knew where all the bodies were buried
or a lot of them right that week russia invades ukraine
fitting very very fitting very fitting you know like what do you think of that whole thing ebbstein
i don't know man i i don't fucking know i think uh
i think that there's some definite fucking espionage going on probably i think he was definitely
some sort of spy you know the the whole the whole thing that fascinates me is is how the
fuck is guillain getting through all the shit that she's getting through like she's getting
she went through that whole entire trial and do you know what with the um what the verdict of
that like what it ended up happening with her trial isn't she gonna go back and she isn't she
getting some sort of appeal well now apparently a juror may have lied right so there was a juror
that right when did her verdict come out i don't remember i forgot this one i don't know it came
out on i believe it was wednesday evening december 29th okay the slowest news week of the year
in an evening two days before new year's eve on a year where new year's eve even falls on friday
so the new year's is on saturday january second is on sunday you don't even get back into the
swing of things until january third and it's five days old and no one paid attention so no one gave
a shit that the judge sealed all the files they're sealed gone and also that judge and this this one
what do you mean sealed the file she sealed the upstream records it cannot be released
like the the things that were not like the evidence yeah that were not presented at trial
are like kennedyed they're jfk'd really yeah so when else has that happened besides jfk
it's a good question i mean it's happened okay i don't know but it's it's there's other things
we could because there's national security implications yeah i think they did some of
that for the 911 commission report i could be wrong about that though awesome that might you
might want to check that but yeah like they're telling you what they're doing now
are there first of all are there other epsteins out there that we don't know about yes
do governments around the world do crazy shit like this yes do we know who he worked for for sure
no but he was the most public i mean he was in new he was on i walk past his house
he's right he's the central point yeah he's on like 69th street no it's not 69th
i didn't mean to do that i'm sorry i think it's had that little j e insignia right i want to say
it's like 71st street or something on the upper east side though it's like it's like right there
pretty dangerously close to 69 but you know he i went back and i was looking at this a couple
months ago after this trial and i'm like when did this start like we saw the story creep up in 2015
and then the lawsuit like came in in 2017 and people were talking about a little bit then 2019
boom like he's in jail and then he's dead like the whole thing i i'm like when did they report on
this guy first though i'm like well we know about the 2002 flight so you i had known that you go google
you'll see stories and like vanity fair and stuff like early stuff about him he first popped on
people's radar in seemingly like 2002 and what popped them on was that flight with bill clinton
kevin spacey and and chris tucker that what a fucking flight what a flight so i'm like okay
where can i find a story where this was reported because every time they would talk about it it
would be in a story from 2015 like the famous 2002 flight and i googled 2002 flight with all
kinds of keywords and like the quotes to try to separate stuff out and i could never find a story
from like october 1st 2002 clinton on flight with billionaire mysterious billionaire i can never
find that and so then i found i think it was in the new yorker did a big piece on october
i think it was october 28th 2002 and i went and found the flight log first and the flight log has
it it was like september 21st or september 22nd 2002 where it has this flight and it has the names
written down president bill clinton chris tucker kevin spacey on the logs that his pilot physically
wrote down because that's available online and so then in this new yorker or whatever was peace they
say the mysterious billionaire came on people's radar when page six reported so page six in the
new york post boom there it is there are the ones who reported this flight so i go to page six i go
to archives there are archives of every month from 1999 when they started putting it online through
today except in 2002 and 2003 including september and i believe october 2002 are not in there there's
seven months missing from 2002 and five from 2003 right after the story and then there's one
month missing in 2004 there's not a single month missing including 1999 2000 and 2001
two present day wow so when this would have been reported you can't even get that so
so what i wonder with him is like we always wonder like what is a secret that's too big
that humanity or society at least whatever relevant society like couldn't handle it if you found out
that governments whoever they are made a trade off where they said we're gonna allow not allow
we're gonna enable someone to be a total pervert for the next 40 50 years and here's what we're
gonna get out of it for civilization over the next 1000 years because some of these people they'd
look crazy then they're thinking about the survival of certain like ethnic groups in different
countries around the world into the future and so they're looking at like well how do we make sure
all of us survive right do they sit in a room and say yeah we'll sacrifice the lives of 50
thousand girls effectively over the next five decades to get this kind of information to get not
just information get this leverage over people so that we can control what happens and i start to put
that together and i'm like i could see people convincing themselves to make that trade in a
room just dark room like this with the top people the president of a country prime minister
whatever you know the head of intelligence in his right hand the head and probably not even
the head police chief like a very select group of like the highest level figures saying are we
gonna make this what's the line in glauers bassers you make that deal i'll make that deal right like
they might and then it's a question of well who would do that i don't think this one was the
CIA i have other thoughts on that but i don't know i know as much as the next fucking person we
don't no one knows it's just so mysterious because they allowed this one this is why he's interesting
they allowed him to get so public that it's right there in front of your face yeah and yet you can
touch him but you can't you can't feel it right right right right you know but there's there was a guy
you ask anyone about this in government they're gonna know his name this guy adin and kashoggi
you ever hear him see the arms dealer yep dude i was had oh my god i can't even see this on the
podcast i'm gonna say it after oh no i don't i can't i can't i can't implicate one of my guests
okay fair but i just fucking learned who this guy was like two days ago i heard the craziest
fucking stories okay i'll remind me don't let me forget about this get david to dig deeper on him
i didn't we got off it because i wanted to go somewhere else when i had him on but okay adin and
kashoggi was an arms dealer from saudi who wasn't i don't think he had any blood of the royal family
i think he was like he got in with them early and he's known to every government agency because he
lived in new york and a tower and other places around the world and it was reported that he was
jeffrey apstein's mentor because one of the things adin and kashoggi had yeah was he was apparently
also like a sex trafficker and like a really i don't know if this is how you say it but like a
good one like someone who knows what they're doing at least there's no good sex trafficker
professional yes professional like he was talented at it i should say so very evil guy and
he in in 1999 this is where it like all starts to come together and you're like how far does this
shit go like is there anything that this doesn't tie to this ever fucking end no so i read in david's
book and context for people don't know david sadder had him on my podcast i think you're
going to have him on this one too he was is the reporter who blew the whistle on putin 25 years
ago he's an american reporter he is to this day the only western non-russian reporter who has ever
been kicked out of russia in post he was actually kicked he's he was the last reporter they let back
in after the soviet union fell because he had been kicked out and he was the first reporter and
only reporter they kicked out because he was the moscow correspondent for the financial times then
the wall street journal since like 1976 the guy has lived his whole life in and around russia
until he got kicked out in late 2013 and he's like the guy on vladimir putin and the thing that he
got on putin the first big story he broke on him that no one listened to literally no one in this
country or anywhere was that putin rose to power in september 1999 by bombing a bunch of apartments
around russia in moscow and two other cities and he killed hundreds of his own people and you say
well how did this bring him to power because they blamed it it's a typical false flag event
they blamed it on chechen rebels and he effectively this is late 1999 putin was named prime minister
the president porous yeltsin his term was about to be over the election was going to be the next
year porous yeltsin and vladimir putin his sidekicks approval rating was two percent not only were
they not going to win when putin ran but like they were at risk of being thrown in jail for
corruption or like killed by the people because russia was a power vacuum so they do this false
flag event david can tell you about how he got that story and everything but he got it and they
say the chechens did it they start the second chechen war yeltsin resigns three months early
two or whatever was five months early to make putin an incumbent so people get used to him as
president he's the wartime leader they have success in the war and suddenly people are like oh this
guy's strong we like him 60 approval rating moves up the election two months or three months from
june to march in 2000 wins the rest is history david had this story alexander lippin anko the
former kgb fsp agent had this story putin killed him as we know in london with polonium in 2006
he was a russian who had it david was the western reporter they both had it and nobody listened but
i found in one of his books he wrote really offhand didn't like didn't seem to think anything of it
when he wrote it but the way they got the chechen thing to happen is they created like a fake invasion
of dagestan by a certain sect of chechen rebels about a month before the bombings in 1999 and what
happened was fine lards the chechens shot their way into dagestan which is a country over there
and then the russians came in to defend and after a while the chechens basically just
picked up their bags and they left and as they left the russians didn't shoot them
they just let them leave like nothing happened and so then there was some sort of like disagreement
that happened publicly out of that which then caused the chechens to bomb the buildings they
created like a they created a false flag event to get the false flag event to happen right and what
david uncovered is that there was a secret meeting in monica or niece like somewhere in there at
adening kashogis house between the chechens and representatives from the inner workings of the
russian government where the dagestan i think that's how you're supposed to say dagestan the
dagestan invasion was cooked up and i'm just like where does this end holy shit where the
fuck does this end kashogi and this guy is apparently how is he tied to fucking epstein
and and john looper now he's he was epstein's mentor he was epstein i thought he was a guy who
allegedly trained i don't know if you can even is that what you call it i've never i never heard
this guy's name until you there today i heard what's up with the guy the victoria see your guy less
less lex wex lex wex less wexner i thought that was his uh like one of his mentors he was like if
allegedly like a financial mentor but i think and i don't think anyone knows but they think that like
jeff had some blackmail on him or they were just in on it together and so lex said lex or less i was
less it's less wexner yeah so whoever the victoria secret dude yeah running a company with a bunch
of girls in japanese all day neither here nor there figure right but he allowed jeff to manage all
his money did you also know though that before jeffrey epstein died after steve bannon got fired by
trump he interviewed jeffrey epstein on camera in his house i think for 18 hours steve bannon did
no i had no fucking clue where do you find this shit do you do anything but research i don't know
man this this i went down this rabbit hole though like two months ago steve bannon
austin i don't know if you can find this clip it's on youtube if you type in steve bannon
epstein he released for some documentary he's got steve bannon's crazy but he he's got some
documentary coming out they used to thought they used to think he was q q and on oh god but he has
some documentary coming out go down type in go back up and and just add times up with with times
with an apostrophe is it even on here anymore hold on uh all right type in steve bannon epstein
interview yeah that first one
yeah it's gotta still be on here go down go down
go the crazy thing about it's like a minute okay there it is there it is see the teaser with epstein
oh wow right there dude try not to laugh when you hear this like this only two minutes long yeah
this month marks two years this is a trailer for his documentary sex offender jeffrey epstein
inside a new york city jail we were underage we were a little girl by the time i was 16 i brought him
up to 75 girls he lived essentially like he was gets he was an absolutely terrifying person to
here's the jeffrey epstein was a billionaire new york businessman whose vast wealth
but an arrogance that knew no limits he acted as if he could have anything he that woman's reporting
on this is the best by far the 60 minutes australia lady prince andrew over his relationship with
jeffrey epstein watch this
but the future is for the way women think
the way women think this way is that not a soft because of uh of all the uh depravity you've
done against young women your new soft is that their their women's thinking is is in the future
you know i've been oh i've only believed that women's things can't be able to take over i haven't
learned to believe that this quarter of a bunch of what he got that on camera
suicide attempt that was it that's the whole that's the whole thing of epstein talk what does
that mean times up male firmly you know the times up like me too movement like times up
oh i didn't know times up for me yeah it was like some trending hashtag with it i think
i had times up yeah it was like times up for for male supremacy or whatever the fuck it was
and he's like i'm a huge but he's got like the new york accent and everything he's like
it's like a normal guy sitting in his house he's like i'm a huge believe in times up didn't he
wasn't he like really into i forget the word now but like he wanted to like spread basically his
dna throughout i heard that what is i forget what the uh there's a word for that when you like
is it eugenics eugenics yeah eugenics he wanted to like i think that's why he bought he said
and this is a report but like he bought the zoro ranch so that he could spawn
little epilepsy right the dude was crazy he was like a racist bastard too like he would just
he looked down on anyone who wasn't white completely like he made he just made he made
shit up about like the physicality of people who are the races i don't remember specific examples
but he was just it yeah he's like this awful awful like if you could create an awful human being like
the Adolf Hitler Jeffrey Epstein i mean that's kind of that's that's where we're at for
some of the same and i guess also maybe some different reasons my thought on that is there
there's a lot of people like those guys but the difference is when you give them that amount of
money when they have that amount of money and all the unlimited resources then they they take they
act on that fucking on who they are you know what i mean or does it change them i don't think it
changes them i think it makes them more of who they already are i think that's probably right
i think there's definitely a magnifying glass i think there's definitely people like that i
also i should say i think there are also people who they get access to something
some impetus is put in front of them after having money and connections right and then
they decide that they didn't dislike whatever it was that just happened and it's the smallest thing
or it's a bigger thing and they do it again they do it again then they do it more right and they
like it right right and they keep going i think that's definitely a thing but you're right there's
there's people who are probably molded to be the worst of the worst
and they decide not to be a serial killer so we just never see it right i think you're right about
that but he's just like
i don't know i just started i had always thought about it but i was never one of these like i
wasn't sitting there listening to the podcast or anything like going back and forth i'm like
this is just fucked up and then that trial just something about it just of course offended me
and i was just like looking all through it and i'm like this is uh diggie lane trail yeah just
lane trail yeah and i'm just putting the timeline because i thought to myself i'm like
i wonder if i like passed this guy on the street right in new york yeah statistically i
i used to walk up to 83rd and 2nd all the fucking time from midtown i like to walk in the city i'm
like statistically i might have and how freaky is that you might have just like walk by this never
know just do yeah with all these secrets i know our new houses like that even existed i never knew
there was like these like there was like a like town houses but they're fucking mansions when you
get inside of them and they're right on the main roads in new york look that shows you how much
how little time i've spent in new york then we'll have people like me in places like that but i'll
take you up to new york i can i can point at him well scorsese has a place like that too probably
very set looks just like it from the outside yeah and and like again like just because you'll live
in a place like that doesn't mean have you seen succession on xpo no i have i've heard good things
though it looks that big fucking main guy the billionaire's house yeah they got the beer he
he lives in a place like just like it looks just like eppstein's house i mean they exist it's like
you know you don't know where
you can have a great person and a bad person right and you can have that house
and all these other things that come with whatever set of life circumstances this is and you can go
like this in a test tube scenario and put the good person in there and you know
that they're gonna be them no you do the same thing with the bad person they're gonna be them
the thing they have in common is they've accessed all this stuff so how do they use it right because
the good person do a lot of philanthropy maybe not even that you know just just like nice guy
tips people well lives a good life lives 80 years dies of cancer right close the day right
you know kids fight over the estate bad person leaves behind an island where a bunch of people
got raped i mean that's the yeah think about that divide have you seen the fucking video of the
kid on the jet ski who's right he's he's riding his jet ski through the Bahamas and he he rides past
eppstein's island no and he pulls up he pulls up and like ties his fucking ski up right in front
of that like crazy looking blue and gold building and he fucking climbs up the rock and he runs up
and he's like filming himself like running across that fucking video this yeah fine youtube uh the
video of the kid who ran up up there here it is come on when is this uh 2020 yeah wait this might
not be it this kid actually jumps up on the island and like takes a cell no imagine being one of the
agents there like god no this isn't it this isn't it uh go back go back fuck you know i go to youtube
jim that's gonna be on the internet too bad and just just uh type in on youtube uh kid
runs across eppstein's island
eppstein island it's like imagine having to look at that island like being in an island
close to it right now like you know it's there keep going type just type it into google just
type it into google and go to images might be there might be like a snapshot they might be in the video
off images kid recently committed suicide don't say that don't speak it into existence
yeah i wonder how many people have like committed suicide that are related to this that we don't
know are related to this that number is four figures okay click on the picture of the blue and
white stripe building click on that now go down scroll down like related photos down
they're making it hard to find type in go pro you want to try duck duck go
type in go pro he filmed it with a go pro there it is look at this no way
hey click on it yeah they didn't arrest him for this today i don't know this is a public
trespasser on jeffrey eppstein's this is public service trust dude you could just pull up on a
fucking boat or a jet ski and climb right up onto that little on that little area where that's up for
sale right now where that building is who the fuck is gonna buy that somebody's gonna buy it i want
to just go trespass and just set up microphones and do a podcast real quick in front of elon must
should buy it and do a bomb test on them take it off the face of planter just be like yeah we're
gonna try to get off there we're gonna try to rock it from there it's it's one of the ones that
destructs the ground below it like that place can't exist do you think that we could get away with
climbing up on on that island and doing a podcast real quick like for like like a one hour podcast
that i mean they got one minute that guy probably got on there i mean if he was running quickly it
was unexpected and we have a video before security could close but like there's no way if you're on
that for five minutes what do you do if you're the security guard and you're like rolling up and you
see two guys with microphones doing a podcast right in front of that fucking bill you just have to
act like you're on there like hey what's up man how are you yeah you want to hop in this might not
be five minutes this might just be some fucking i when i'm not even related to it you just gotta
scroll down when i'm in new york though next i do i have i thought look at this kid come on oh he's
right next to the thing he got picture oh he even got like instagram level pictures yeah they
fucking modeled in front of look at this all right yeah security with someone let him do this you
think yeah someone was like you know what it was bound to say go up say something about his youtube
channel brakko's youtube videos notice the image running for his name is brako okay i wonder what kind
of tunnels exist there oh my god right how fucking crazy but i do want to i have thought about this
when i go to new york next like i told you i love to walk through your legend it is like when was
this 2020 yeah 2020 when i go there next though they've apparently renovated like the whole place
like a goldman guy bought it the house his new york house yeah and took out the whole inside
like he i i think the guy i mean is a goldman guy but i think he like bought it as like a
someone needs to buy this and i mean i thought they should have knocked it down but he basically
apparently ripped out like the whole thing but it's still sold for a big number i wouldn't expect that
i guess he's got the money spent but i do want to like i want to go stand up i've definitely
passed it before and not thought about it fuckers sorry sorry oh this is it this is the actual
oh he's got a part so there's a part two did he go back the next day you must have
just fast forward to the part they're gonna have a whole intro trying to get you
go see where see where that big spike is it's probably right there
oh i gotta get that tool i didn't see that that's just part of youtube i think now it's like a new
thing they did i guess oh dude i don't like that at all oh he's on it right now let's get the fuck out
just two assholes walking on to this walking on to this like what's the word at 6 30 am we were
nearly compromised 12 hours later we returned no they went back oh my god yo they're definitely
abstinence nephews this is the ultimate prank they did it before joke squad this is what i'm saying
someone the security guards like look at leaning up from his newspaper like a fuck it do you think
there's still security guards on the island there's got dude there's got to be like cia and and fucking
nsa like wands on there whatever the fuck they're called yeah but there's nothing there
i mean the buildings are there dude yeah but what are they gonna do with the building i mean
they could they're not doing this but they could hypothetically kick down the door yeah i guess
you're right they could that's a window what's in there is that two-way glass or one-way glass i don't
know part two thirteen minutes these kids are fucking crazy bro yeah what are the names bratt
br a ccoz brackos yeah yeah we gotta we gotta get them some more subs we gotta get them in here
how do they only have 12 000 yeah you gotta get them in here these guys need to be blown up before
they're not with us anymore so you're saying you're gonna you want to take a photo in front of
no no i don't want to take a fucking photo fuck that selfie no i just want to stand there and look
like yeah you know once in a while i'm a believer in that weird universe and i just
want to feel if i feel something like there's another house by the way not far from ebstings
but that's not a coincidence because new york it's you know everything's tight but
there's another house i think it's next to michael bloomberg's place maybe like 72nd street 73rd
something like that where it was like the iraq consulate or something and sedams people used to
like torture people down there oh really and then they rip that shit whoever bought that ripped that
shit out but like there's just that's the thing about new york and you could say this about any
place technically somewhere but in new york you walk down every street and this is where
shit happened or is happening right and so there's just it's weird but i think about this a lot like
the environment of it i'm like something in there could have been world changing shit maybe you've
good maybe it's good maybe it'd be evil right you walk past the federal reserve damn i wonder who's
stood in there before you know what they're talking about yeah and then like if you drive down i78
right next to new york where you have an unabated look at the skyline right every time i did that
2000 times maybe not probably a thousand but like every time i drive down there i just look at those
fucking things and i'd be like not one of those dick looking buildings went up without the mafia
okay in the cement contract on the whole fucking thing right which you know i'm not giving them a
compliment but it's like wild to think about that like none of those went up without like
Paul Castellano being like yeah they paid enough like john gotty lucky Luciano back in the day
yeah we'll build that building like that's a mob right you know and then the un is there
oh i wonder who's i wonder who's come through there i wonder who stayed at these hotels
you know i'm in there's a fucking deep deep dark dark history in that town that city
it's good and bad good and bad right but a lot of it a lot of a lot of both man and that's like
new york's like the ultimate symbol because it creates a different kind of person people from
new york are so fucking different so fucking different than anywhere else you can tell automatically
it's not even just the accent it's the whole personality of somebody i heard that i heard
that one of the best expressions i ever heard that really summed it up perfectly was the
difference between new york and la people from new york i love this is not everybody but most
people they like to shit on you with a smile versus la they smile with and they fucking talk
shit behind your back they think they smile at your face it's like fake nice in l and on the west
coast and on the east coast it's they shit on you with a smile which i prefer much more to fake nice
people are direct like they're so like i feel like out of my element when i'm not around new
york yeah like that's i like if someone if i'm walking on the street and someone doesn't say
like fuck you get out of the way it's like something's wrong here right right right hold on a minute
you're being too nice like i'll come down to florida you know we're like my grandparents are
and like i walk in the store and people are like well how are you doing there and i'm like
you know a day it's great two days it's great and then the third day i'm like aren't you gonna
be like my hair's out of place or get the fuck out of my my parking spot you know there's like
something but i don't know it's it there's good and bad with it but it definitely you get molded
by the speed in new york you can either keep up or you can't right you know when i would do business
with people talk business whatever no matter how serious or unserious it was who were from the
midwest or something like that it drove me nuts because like where like this right let's get done
deal let's go these guys you know tomorrow exists and you know what next wednesday that exists yeah
and would you like to come over for supper the following monday and it's like that's so true
it's like what are we doing hold on a minute you know let's handshake and get the fuck on with it
like let's spit on it and go but new york is the ultimate like even more because i grew up around
philadelphia and then spent my adult time in new york like night and day like even though it's like
that in philly like philly small yeah new york's a whole where there's five million dollars in philly
there's five hundred million dollars in new york you know where there's this speed of something
happening in philly there's that speed times 50 happening in new york and like even that
divide like attitude wise can be a little wide it's crazy to think about it's not that far
hmm are you uh are you like as far as sports goes you're more phillies fan or new york fan
yeah more i got the p on my hat could never wear that ny on there no never no like and i identify
i have for a long time more because i spent my time in new york and that's where the center of
the world is but like you know i'm from i grew up in west effort which is 11 minutes from philly
you know in jersey and that was my home city so like there's always that that there and we're
definitely it's it's a passionate place especially with sports show me your wrist i'm from pittsburgh
you get it pittsburgh's legit pittsburgh's got it's in a different way it's like he's a floridian
his whole life except for like the first five minutes of his life but he identifies as a full
blown pittsburgh is your family from there yeah i live there's always like 10 he just likes to talk
he's just you can't believe me like that makes sense that's given a lot more credit to
yeah so that's okay whatever five minutes 10 years the same thing danie just doesn't understand
because he's from florida nobody has any respect for sports teams down what you got tom fucking
brady everybody from florida's not from here so like nobody has any like loyalty to sports down
here danie likes the lakers one day he likes to fucking bucks the next day he likes to bucks one
day likes fucking the patriots the next day that's a violation hey look at the stickers look at the
stickers we're bucks fans over here we'll do that in pennsylvania yeah when tom brady's not here in
two years is it gonna look like i won't give a fuck about sports anymore okay yeah see that's
see i like i'm a more of like a player fan i like the player i'm like i'm a fan of the players
that's what people say they have no loyalty to no heart towards their sports i'll watch a lebron game
like any team he's on i'll watch the game but if i mean if it's fucking if it's the 76ers and
the Orlando magic i don't give a shit but if lebron's playing the game i like watching it same
with tom brady well not even i don't honestly i never really gave a fuck about tom brady before
he was on the bucks i never really cared about watching his games yeah you wouldn't understand
no i wouldn't yeah i think i think i'm gonna i'm second that right i don't get it i don't
but it's fun to watch yeah it's just like it's fun to watch everybody in Tampa just lose their
minds now that tom brady's the quarter right it's i mean look it's a privilege it's like you're watching
the epitome of greatness every week and now he's coming back it's like the guy is out of control
listen it's like popular and like a place like philly be like fuck tom brady i was never with that
like to me when we won our super bowl in 2018 that was like i can't even was that foot long foals
yep yeah i love how you know baby baby but like that was so important like the religion that is
especially football there and to finally win it we had a championship not a super bowl is right
before there were super bowls like to do that it's indescribable but people you know there would
even after we won we went to parade people are making fun of tom brady kissing his kids and
shit like that oh yeah and i'm just like guys and they were giving him shit i'm like tom brady
who is the best player to ever step on a football field just played one of the greatest as greatest
nick foals was in that game and he was phenomenal deserved to win MVP to hold it tom brady played
one of the greatest games of football i've ever seen maybe his best game ever the guy didn't miss
he threw no interceptions he had three touchdowns he threw for 500 and some yards i mean he should
have had like five or six touchdowns but they ran a couple in at the goal line but like i'm like this
the best player to ever play just played against us in the super bowl we somehow won and won our
first super bowl against the best to ever do it at the top of his game i have nothing but respect
for him and thank you for letting me watch that because like we won but i also got to watch like
perfect football and i'll never in the second quarter that game i'll never forget this for the
rest of my life chris collinsworth gets on there there was some sort of like weird stutter go route
that gronk and brady tried it was like a timing pattern and brady threw it low i think because he
thought gronk was gonna come in and it was clear to everyone on tv like he threw a dart in there
but it came in low and collinsworth goes you know i'm not really sure about that one now but uh
you gotta wonder father time catches up with everyone and tom brady doesn't make that throw
next throw 50 yards downfield oh there's tom brady yeah never misses again the rest of the
i'm like that's the coldest in game day i've ever seen in my life like you talk about father time
when the guy's throwing for 550 fucking yards or whatever it was i'm like this dude and that was
four years ago yeah four years like 41 whatever yeah and i'm just like like he walked off the
i'm like yo like i came like a salute like we're selling my dad and me are like crying but i'm like
salute to that guy that's like i'll never it doesn't get any better in this like we literally
couldn't stop you were you at the game no we were i went home to watch with my dad i'm like
we gotta take that's awesome we gotta take them home together that's awesome and it was like
together yeah we're doing it it was like it was like a religious experience and then the parade was
like but that was insane oh it's indescribable no one will ever do a parade like that like philly
at their first superbowl that will not i saw things that i'll never see again i saw people peeing in
places that i didn't think were possible you know they put all cresco oil on all the on all the
poles i saw the best was when i saw jesus walking around a guy dressed as jesus with a giant flag
pole that had that had an industrial clear bag on the top and a sign walking next to him that said
nick foals condom with an arrow up and like nick foals with his little daughter and his like
very cute religious wife like driving by on the on the bus and like standing there
some people are so amazing bro sports fans are like none other it's like it's like none other
they're the best it's fucking hilarious you know what's scary though we like sports
and like the passion aren't like the tribalism behind that now in the social media era
i at least my opinion is while that's continued to a great extent we make sports like politics too
right so we look at it people get like this like emotional and like cut throat oh yeah
over issues like you you brought this up a while ago we didn't go into it but we probably should
like the whole ukraine thing i looked at this maybe a day after it happened and i'm just so
cynical now that i'm like give it a week give it a week and we're gonna have two camps
oh yeah we're gonna have the people and like it didn't take a gene i think a lot of people
called this but like we're gonna have the people who have the profile picture from adobe photoshop
with the ukrainian flag and like the over graphic image like this stand with ukraine or whatever
they were gonna say pronouns underneath what all that then we're gonna have people who suddenly
are like you know this Putin guy might not be too bad and and the people who get all the
attention so therefore what seems to be the main narratives even though a lot of people don't feel
these two ways are gonna be those two and you're now gonna divide people along the lines are you
anti-ukraine or pro-uk or pro-putin right right right and it's like dude like a fucking simulation
you know same thing as the 9-11 thing a lot of things can be true at the same time yeah
no i mean like i told you i went down that hole will you crane rabbit hole with the
oliver stone documentaries and that shit just like took me for a whirlwind when did he make that
2017 i want to say around 2017 2018 he has two separate ones he has one that was all about the
maydan thing and then he has a the one or no i'm sorry he has the one about the orange revolution
that was before that this is different this is the actually interviews he did with Putin
and then he has another one that that covered that goes into all the way up to Zelensky in 2019
and how like he campaigned to end the war in donbass and he still never did it
and the craziest part which i talked to the guy i had on here last for a couple days ago about
was that lady victoria newland the neo khan who's husband's also a big fucking neo khan who helped
sell the iraq war what's her position um i'm not sure what her position is can we can we pull that
up by yeah yeah pull up that same clip of her talking about the recorded phone call with victoria
newland and uh they're recording it she's talking about biden signing off on the new president of
the ukraine and you were telling me this is the same lady who had like that weird back and forth
with marco rubio yes that's the same lady senate the other day she's like uh uh there are chemical
labs uh research labs uh in the ukraine yes and we want to make sure that we want to do everything
we can to make sure that uh the russian troops do not get their hands on them my only thing he was
like what my only thing about this is like well not my only thing but one thing about this is
of course it's horrifying to see what's going on there you have a heart like the people who are
caught in the middle of this is not beautiful yeah it's disgusting what's going on but like
why why do we not raise this point like why are we just raise i know it's important because
ukraine's 45 million people it's right next to russia it has resources putans bad but like
what about all the brown kids who have this happen every fucking day in the middle east well
because like like tim dylan said we could imagine these people coming to dinner with us
they're white oh i didn't see that wow the best have you seen the did you see the trevor
noa video he actually nailed this with uh talking about like the implicit bias in the media talking
about this war he's like oh i wonder why they're so worried about it let's roll the tape and like
the people are like you know this is europe this is a friend this isn't a third world country exactly
these aren't little brown babies running around they look just like us yeah and we have to protect
and like you know the one guy the one guy had like an oh shit moment like the one cbs
reporter on tv he's like and i have to choose my words carefully here but oh yeah exactly european
yeah he's basically saying that's supposed to mean steve like why are we so worried about
about the ukrainian people being murdered when we're not worried about people in yemen getting
bombed and slaughtered and p you know what's the other thing is because trevor noa said this he's
like literally europe's whole history is built off of war and he's right it hasn't even been that long
since what i think maybe there's been another one since then i'm not even thinking of it but like
people even know what happened in kosovo in 1999 have you ever looked into that i mean i know a
little bit about it but not a lot yugoslavia all that right i went down the rabbit hole that like
this is recent and i there's a lot i don't know so please look this up for yourself but like
you know the whole like yugoslavia breaking up after the soviet union fell from 91 to 99 and
that power vacuum and those six different regions there including three more that were outside of
yugoslavia that had like some of the same people in there this is where borders like don't divide
by culture like there's the same types of people like there's albanians who live not just in albania
they live in kosovo they live in massedonia they live in syria like all these places
and like there was legit like genocide going on there and we don't talk about it because
the government nato just came in and bombed the shit out of syria to end it which i guess
there's controversy there but i guess technically did but you know they didn't let the media in
to the countries while this was going on so we just yeah whatever but there was like
literal ethnic cleansing going on no one cared about that one right you know but now there's a narrative
to it yeah the rewanda yep rewanda have you ever seen that movie hotel rewanda no don cheetle no
bro that's this this is 28 years ago the who-to's and the tootsies i'm probably getting that wrong
but okay they just ran around with machetes what and just fucking i forget who did it on who but
what was that oh i didn't know that june's got back from rewanda didn't you
didn't you just go to rewanda really this kid goes to every fucking country around every
country i've never even heard we got to pop you in here that's pretty cool okay play that victoria
newland uh clip real quick yeah yeah let's go back there this is the phone call full full screen
yeah this is the record of phone call so when can you give the context on this okay so this is right
like towards the end of the mydown massacre right here so like 2014 as the weekend prices
was getting more violent there was a phone call that was intercepted it was a call between the
assistant secretary of state for european affairs victoria newland and the u.s. ambassador to Ukraine
jeffrey piet questions of credibility are being raised after a private chat between two top u.s.
diplomats was leaked online i think he asked is the guy who's got the economic experience the
governing experience he's he's the guy you know what he needs is a cleech and tony book on the
outside i i just think cleech going in he's going to be at that level working for yachts and you
because it's not going to work yeah no i think that's i think that's right okay good well do you
want us to try to set up a call with him corporate speak and i said probably tomorrow for an out of
boy and i get the deeds to stick oh my god so you have this remarkable phone call where you have
these two senior officials of the u.s. government apparently talking about who or how they were
planning to restructure the government look at that evil bitch you know exactly
u.s. government feels that way the there is there is division on this but the neoconservative
element wants very much to change the strategic dynamic in eastern europe
you know what fucking crazy now take out the words ukraine and like president or whatever
there uh and now imagine like two hr managers at bank of america talking about a business
that they're going to slowly unwind so they don't have to sell the shareholders until it's already
done it's the same it's the same speak corporate speak right he's like all right well we'll call
you back with next steps biden's will have a hard stop at four fifteen by the way
like shut the fuck like dude there's it's so insane i just like this was 2014 yeah so this is
like tech errors upon us i don't know why for the life of me i understand like day to day you're
just doing your job and you're not thinking about everything but like think about everything you do
when you're in a position like that you got to be on constant alert like i wonder how this would
sound if someone was recording this right now because they might be you know like you never
know when this is going to come out and so i'm thinking that back then so here's here maybe not
apparently not but like but like here's a prime example the thing they're talking about right there
they might actually have the right opinion on this but they're doing it in like a seemingly
corrupt underwater way right right like yana kobich was not a good guy he lied to his people
he was a piece of shit who was friends of putin and everything and the people the ukrainian people
wanted him out that's a fact they wanted him gone and and he ended up being gone but here you have
senior u.s officials talking about like nonchalant like yeah we're going to get our guy in there
or whatever right where now the now it's dirty now it's like well they put someone in here right
now it seems like obviously zolenskiy's this is way this is seven years later and then zolenskiy
was like a random comedian who then somehow got to office right and i think that guy's just caught
in the middle of a shitstorm because you gotta remember the ukrainian government already had
like its own bullshit regular corruption like all these governments have and he's walking into that
so who the fuck knows like what these guys are doing around them right now right right you know
but we can all agree you know because what's happening to his people is is awful it's just like
don't make a twitter bio about it right when you don't know anything but could you imagine
fucking russia installing doing the same thing in mexico could you imagine fucking some top
level russians in the kgb inserting a regime in mexico like what the fuck would we do to mexico
are you kidding me you should ask no that would never fucking happen you should run this by david
this is another one you should definitely run by to see all the answers it because like the concept
is well we're good in their bed right exactly what is good and what is bad right now i will say this
as critical as i may be in feliz and his podcast of like certain agencies and things we do and
assholes like that yeah on the good and bad spectrum do i do i think we're a lot better
intentioned at least like overall is a group of people to say nothing of individuals then
say russia yes but who are we to say that it's not our country you know what i mean so like if you're
russia if you're putin the one thing is that you could feel a little threatened that like oh there's
nato troops on everyone possibly yeah maybe maybe all these anti ballistic missiles they're putting
up there that could be changed into offensive missiles in less than an hour maybe i don't know
anything about that but yeah if that's if that's a thing then yeah like another example like a lot
of things can be true at the same time and that's why that that's why what he's doing is an all-time
level of stupidity because he actually as much as he's already disliked and and ripped on the
world stage before any of this happened he had some like some potentially moral leverage against
western not ukraine per se but like western powers who were like tacitly allowing certain
things to happen on all the borders around him where then ukraine comes into play because it's
the biggest one right he had some leverage there and then he went and attacked the country and
shelled apartments and shit and yeah it's just like he gave it all away and now the one thing i
understand with people who have significant bias is yeah it's very hard to see past anything when
you do see something very evil happening in front of you my issue is that people just take
such a it has to be everything to them ukraine has to be all good yeah there's no problem can
you find that john stewart interview with oliver stone i think it's john no not john stewart who's
the other guy steven colbert interviews oliver stone about his interviews with putin and he's
basically sitting there and they even edited out a shitload of it to make it because actually
oliver made if you watch the long version you make some really good points they cut it out of the main
where'd you get the long version the long version is i think it's also on youtube we get a dig way
deeper and it's like 15 minutes long but the tv version i can't believe they let that out dude and
he's basically sitting there he's like so tell me about about this interview you did with putin
blah blah blah and he starts talking about his experience sitting there he'd made three trips
to russia and spent over like 20 hours not 20 probably like 10 hours talking to him and it
was edited into six hours or four hours and then he says that the stuff and then and then
steven colbert is like so out of all this do you have anything negative to say about putin
like can you give me one negative thing you could tell he's like super upset that he has
nothing negative to say about him he's just giving his unbiased point of view on it he's like
you didn't challenge him on this he's like look to be able to get an interview with this
fucking guy in the first place you have to have some mutual respect you don't understand that
well you get i can't just walk in there and be a fucking dickhead to the guy you have to have
respect for the guy you have to understand his position to be able to get this interview in the
first place and here well here's a good example here's where i think here's where i think they're
probably both wrong um on each side colbert and and stone because colbert is just fishing for
something politically useful for him for his motives which is bullshit he should be looking at this
but i mean and it might even be a fair question with the wrong intentions but yeah the one thing
oliver stone won't have an explanation for here is that you the only journalists who get
access to the kremlin like there's there's an official meeting that happens i don't know if
it's once a month or something where the tacit expectation is it's russia trying to show oh
we're open with all the media around the world but you don't get let back in there again if you
say something that they don't like so everyone self-censors and so he doesn't get this interview
this is the fact he doesn't get this interview unless he has a clear to lie the things they're
going to talk about directly with the kremlin before which allows putin to prepare for it and b
says anything that sets putin off to the point that he can't virtue signal cover for it so it's
not like i would say in my opinion oliver stone is i don't like this phrase at all he's like a
necessary evil because he's a fuck everybody guy he's the guy who makes you have to look introspective
regardless of party into the united states and bad things we do and i think that's necessary but
yeah in the same way that people on another side of an issue could get biased by their own experiences
yeah i think he does too so oliver stone who's a guy who's very disillusioned with a lot of
things in america who was a vietnam war veteran he saw the worst of what we do right you know
yeah he's biased but it's like i watch oliver stone i say okay we know some shit here like all right
i don't think barack obama belongs in front of the haig war tribunal all right let's relax but
what are some things he's gonna say about all the politicians we've had that have an element of
truth to him and let me try to figure that out i i mean i know but like it's not all good and it's
not all bad right i i don't know why a lot of i feel like a lot more people do think like this
they just don't say it out loud i hope they do right but like that's it's a prime example so like i
do want to sit down and watch the full four hour thing yeah and see what he got because you can't
tell me he didn't get some kernels of something that are at least useful to understand oh it gives
you an extremely it's it's a fascinating insight on on putin and not i mean even if it's all just
an act he's putting on he's putting on a damn good fucking act well he's good at that he i mean he
must be he's a propaganda genius if you want to say if you want to say everything that he said in
those interviews is completely an act and a false then he's fucking a damn good salesman and a damn
good actor probably not all four hours that's pretty hard to do but a lot of it i mean they
know what they're doing man they these people he says uh they don't care he he all of his own
refers to because it's during the trump hillary election he's interviewing him and he's like
and hillary's campaigning and she calls putin hitler and uh he asked putin's like did you
see hillary just called you hitler yesterday he's like he giggles he's like ah she's a very dynamic
woman it could still be funny it's hilarious i mean i sometimes i'm sure even guys like him
gotta laugh at some shit that happens in it in a democracy like and they sat down they sat down
together and they walked they watched dr strangelove really he showed putin dr strangelove for the
first time and what do you say i forget i don't know he gave him the dvd and it was it was interesting
i forget exactly it was good it was great but he was like i've never seen this this is very fascinating
and then uh oliver stone gives him the dvd and gives him the case and the dvd is not in there
he's like oh it's typical american gift have you ever heard putin speak english yeah he says if he
has a few words he speaks in english it's like you expect this guy to have like the gruff like
like smokers russian like i've murdered a thousand people voice but he actually talks like
and we will invite you to the russia and it's like he sounds like the mater d yeah he does
the fuck he does he's uh you know and and oliver stony i mean to his credit he does push him
pretty hard in the in the interviews too like he straight up says he goes why why did you interfere
in our elections why did you do it you know you know how you know how much power you have in our
country if you wanted to go endorse trump he would lose if you want to go endorse hillary she would
lose like that's how much power you have so why did you fuck with our election no why do you think
putin would allow that question because i mean obviously his answer was no i didn't do anything
we never fear we never interfere with any foreign elections we know that and so he can just deny
and people can be like oh it's a lie but whatever but when he sits there and answers it and answers
it with a face that's clearly like i'm just given the response i'm supposed to give he gets to show
power there people around the world see that and they go that son of a bitch did it and he doesn't
matter people are gonna believe him to no matter how yeah yeah like like certain people will but
not but the he doesn't care about the people who will right because he's already got them right
he cares about the people who don't which is probably most of the people who are watching it
who know anything about the situation because it shows that he not only did it he's talking to an
american on his own turf and saying fuck you yeah no i didn't do that i wonder if that's
ever happened the other way around i wonder if there's ever been any like really big like note
like notable russian journalist or filmmaker who's done that with a american president and
here's an example for sure i don't know what an instance but i i if you made me bet my not very
big bank account it's got like nothing in it but if i had to bet all of it i'd bet yeah that's
happened really yeah i don't know what the russian journalist specifically but yeah just no doubt i
mean look at well i think he's like putans whether you want to say he's good or bad i think he's
very effective at his job i think he does i mean the guy's been doing it for how long
well that's because he changed whether how no matter how corrupted he changed yeah he changed
the goal post over and over again he's not the people the really interesting thing about russia
that david can talk a lot about because he's lived among the people for so long is their psychology
they are a different breed and they and they're molded by their environment they're molded by
over a hundred years of it's in some cases the worst corruption imaginable i mean we don't
seem to say this enough but like joseph stalin was i mean he was as bad as hitler in many ways
maybe not quite all but like the closest thing for sure and like we forget that you know these
people live through awful shit so they have statues of them everywhere yeah well i think they've
gotten rid of a lot of them but they probably i think so but they probably still some but like
these people they will believe opposite thing they will say one thing and then say a thing that
directly contradicts that and not think anything of it and that but like they will say david told
me this he's like they'll say the government is all corrupt and the next thing out of their mouths
will be you'll ask them about a current issue and they'll be like i don't know but the government
definitely knows so we'll let them deal with it like they are very and it's not their fault they're
just you know they're the hardened people who pour out the vodka and sit in the ice bath in
the middle of the tundra and say i wash my bowls with this and they don't care like they're just
they're they are they believe that it's gonna be bad no matter what so you might as well just
suck it up and keep going and like most of you gotta remember when when the communism fell in 90
or 91 whatever it was you know this private the rapid privatization that the government
basically just allowed was corrupt people write people write time gave them all the control the
oligarchs and so all you want to have a wealth gap all the wealth went to the small group of
individuals and then the way that those individuals bought protection if they weren't already a part
of it themselves was organized crime which then went through the roof and like you talked to
the one guy i knew who i'd like to have on the podcast again jules bono volante he was
one of the main fbi organized crime guys during the height of the italian american mafia like
70s 80s 90s he invented donnie brasko it was his idea and he told me this over a decade ago when
i was young and talk with him he's like you know the italians at this point would kind of know
what we're getting gambling's prostitution occasionally the wacky guy it's like controllable
who's like the russians russians are some wild shit man they don't give it that like you you don't
you don't find the body you find the finger and you find a piece of a toe and like a weird ice box
and some acid like it's some next level shit and these people you know those that's the worst example
but like russian mafia over here yeah and you know they're all tied back to there but like
they're molded by an environment that has no hope they're molded by an environment where this
this is the only way we make money right you don't like it fuck off italians at least they
got to be home in time for dinner yeah yeah there's a big there's and those guys don't be wrong
they're psychos and they don't feel much but they feel maybe a little you know the russians are like
it's like eastern promises they're fucking chopping the guy out there's no hope there's just no hope
you know wow it's but that's that's it like they're they have been fucked up
because the way soviets came to power they were fucked up the czars had all the power
no one had any money it's a weird environment it was it's still rural as fuck it's cold people are
miserable you know and then the soviet union happened we know how that turned out yeah and
and then this happened oh democracy no you know can can you google the uh the 2020 russian constitution
changes just toss this one right in there during covid it's right under right under the books so
in russia yeah yeah this this how putin this is why he consolidated power before doing anything like
this and i mean genius political move but you know he had to leave office in 2008 because presidents
can only serve two terms in the new constitution so he puts medvedev in there who's a he becomes
prime minister medvedev president and then um amendments to the constitution yeah yeah yeah
so if you go down proposed amendments yeah let's start there see that down look down down down
proposed amendments now it's like the very bottom the big text the bottom of the screen yeah
so go to the list if you don't mind down very bottom right there yep
all right so where is the russian constitution will supersede international war
international law yeah but go down to proposed adoption without a referendum
uh where was the thing basically i don't know if this is the right page
but keep finding to keep looking find something juicy putin removed term limits it's gone in 2020
yeah so now he can be president forever because he was coming up on i guess like 12 years or something
in 2024 i think there was going to be something or maybe it was 2020 he was removing it ahead of
the election so he allowed it to happen he also wrote in that in order to become president in russia
you had to have only lived here for the last 25 years and you cannot have ever held any foreign
resident status so you can't have a passport anywhere else or have it or have a home anywhere
else right right which rules out every single oligarch so anyone with even a modicum of power
in the country cannot seize power so now people are talking about well who could take over the only
way that someone would take over would be a straight up coup where they rip up the constitution
which is going to cause an uprising in the country which would be disastrous but you know whatever
and also even if the oligarch replaced them half these all these guys are dirty in some way
like yeah that's a thing that's the thing if we replace him right and would it be better
it would probably be better really because like he's bad i mean he's just a he's a bad dude but
minimally right like he didn't even notice it's better right they're still gonna have the same
complaints oh ukraine they have things on the border yeah maybe we go in yeah all right maybe
they didn't do it as brazen and it's dumb and this usually prudent hasn't been done but this was
dumb like how he did this one but like they probably still do it i mean it's hypothetical
i don't know but you know they still it's their country it's their land like they're passionate
about it and if they're not necessarily a good person and they're not beholden to the rights of
the individual people in their country because they can do whatever the fuck they want they're
gonna do that you know so like that's why the propaganda exists and that's why even in an interview
like like oliver stones he's controlling tacitly what he's being asked he knows so he knows he can
use that you can't make that happen without being without having all those questions yeah screened
beforehand so it's like a lot of journalists i'm sure i haven't seen an instance of this but
maybe someone talked about at some point i'm sure a lot of journalists have had an opportunity to go
there but haven't taken it because they know like they're told well here's how it works
fuck that right you know we're in a country where like jimacosta and peter ducey can exist
right you know i'm just giving the example of the two sides with an opposite party of choice
in office and they can just like make a scene that doesn't have in russia you don't hear from
that person no no they're gone like anna anna pollitt never get this name right anna pollitt
the skia she was a journalist there murdered in our home really yeah she wrote against putin
boris nemsoth the opposition leader murdered literally right next to the kremlin have it on
video you know boris nemsoth's successor alexi nevoni in prison you know it's not have you ever
seen the the documentary icarus of course dude how fucking wild is that shit one of the best
document i mean top five documentary ever made in my opinion like like on the edge of your fucking
seat that that fucking thing you will grab that documentary like is so fucking gripping from
start to finish yeah and how that guy is now the the chemist guy is now fucking living here under
like a false identity to be to not get killed by russians the front that guy was like straight
out of a borat movie oh yeah oh yeah the guy was like so no brian i am in danger and it's like so
fucking funny imagine if you're brian fogle though walking into that you're like doing a documentary
to like fake drug yourself and then suddenly this guy's in the middle of like an international
moment this whole life's in danger and you're like i have this old camera and he's like talking
about going through security he's like oh yeah we got no problem no problem i mean guys they're
hardened to it dude you know you survived oh yeah no problem no problem we got lucky today we got through
like but that's that's these are at that's how crazy they are there he is these are athletes it's
the olympics it's a symbol we must drug them we must win yeah what like that's just how i don't know
it's hard for me to say how i'd be i didn't grow up in the soviet union right you know what i mean
like people are only as good as the environment you don't get to choose where you're born
including putin you know the guy was he's in the kgb imagine the shit he did and didn't feel
anything about because they're taught right this is what you do you know think about like the people
that he probably strangled with his right hand i'd probably be crazy too you know but if you
don't do it you're dead yeah it's hard to put yourself in somebody else's shoes like that yeah
yeah it's not it's also hard to imagine you know being the president of a country for that
fucking long and think about it we have a new person every four years every four years someone's
brand new right right back to the boost a monty argument by the way what was the boost a monty
argument in like a similar vein where he's talking about like attacking within versus losing the
focus of the outside we have a popularity contest every four years right which is like good because
it's democracy but what does it lead to it leads to everyone thinking two minutes out in the news
cycle to try to do what's going to not lose them votes right and then we don't have term limits
in like the most important and the most important part of the government right like what's our excuse
there why do these people look like they were my grandparents grandparents yeah people like
that victoria newland lady and she's not even the worst-case scenario but yes but yes exactly
even Joe Biden in that ukraine documentary they go into the whole thing with his son being on the
board of that company that's the energy company in ukraine like which gets covered up but like
and here's the other thing he's one dude right and it was one board i mean it's it's it's important
but like there's a lot more other shit that also like even ukraine they're just getting used
they don't even there's probably guys over there's a lens he doesn't know about right
fucking price you know and like that's not his fault that's just the world
but like biden man like i used to caddy for his someone close to him we'll say that oh yeah you
gotta tell the stories of caddying back in the day yeah i didn't he used to be a professional caddy
for one like the fucking most like most elite golf courses there were there were a couple one of them
though was wilmington country club which is where biden's been he lives like two minutes from there
been there forever but i used to caddy a lot for someone close to him never caddy for joe but
you know i stood there on the practice tee when he walked on like right here you know in all the
secret service golf carts behind him when he was vice president and the last time i was within
striking thisness of him like literally like walking right here by me was the summer of 2014
and it's crazy because he walks on the practice tee he's like a normal dude but he's like i remember
thinking to myself this dude's 71 years old because he was like oh really oh yeah he was
moving right jim what's up what's up motherfucker i don't know if he said motherfucker but he's like
busting balls to people on the tee like like pointing around doing the whole like not even
politician he just like a like a bro almost gets up there he's striping the driver off the practice
tee like 240 250 i'm like this fucking guy's a machine he might he might run he might not be too
old to run for president he might do it and then his son died the next year didn't end up running
for president but i remember seeing him this is five years later he announces his candidacy
four and a half years later and i'm like did that dude have like 10 brain aneurysms and says oh
like he went from this like moving around guy you know to like he just fell off instantly huh
i never say anything like i mean i guess it happens what happens when you get old but
that quick though that quick i wonder what the fuck happened how did he something else he had
something and i'm not a doctor i don't know but i don't know if he hit his head something he's just
like i did talk with someone this summer whose expertise is with dementia patients who's not
a fan of biden at all and she laid out for me for like an hour like a while why he doesn't have
dementia she's like because it's her expertise and she's like pissed off when everyone's playing
doctor but she's like but he's oldest fuck right right like this is he's only a couple years older
than putin i think he's several years older oh is he yeah i think he was 70 yeah i think biden's
like 78 79 okay but still like you know putin's in a lot better shape it seems i guess but like
you know she's like imagine she this woman was asking me because she knew my grandfather and she's
like love your grandpa successful guy smart guy imagine him being president today and i'm like
oh no and he would be like oh no yeah and she's like well that's this is what it looks like so
it's not dementia but like i mean who do i gotta fuck to elect a 50 year old right right like
what are we doing right our government is run by it was just trump before him who was kind of a
machine as a person but like he's oldest fuck he's from a different generation you get the
same generation with biden and then along the way you have mitch mcconnell chuck schumer
man see polosi his face is falling off you know the the the sproutest guy is like kevin oliri
or whatever his name is who's on term number five whatever it is and he i think he's like 60
what does that guy know about my reality right like nothing it's insane man it's crazy
fucking world we live in some nuts shit man bro that was uh three and a half hours no it wasn't
three and a half fucking hours my bladder has never gone i still don't have to pay this is
great every episode you don't see it but every episode i have to pee at least once tell all the
watchers and listeners where they can find your amazing youtube channel and all your content
and thank you for the compliment and if you're still here at this point we've been talking a
while but you can find me at trendifier t-r-e-n-d-i-f-i-e-r on t- on well tiktok for sure but youtube is
where we put the the podcast put on apple and spotify and type in my name julian dory it should
come up as well and yeah we're i said we're on tiktok so that's the other one where there's some
content but yeah we'd love to see you guys join join the show thank you for having me
