They discovered three things in that process that characterized me, the things that I wanted
in life.
You know, I wanted power, money, and sex.
That's perfect for a CIA officer.
All right.
They knew they had me.
They could hook me by giving me those things or putting me in a position where I had the
opportunity to gain those things.
And so then I went in the Peace Corps and then was recruited while I was still in the
Peace Corps by this guy who had that information from the NSA.
And they figured out, you know, like, okay, so this guy's only got a bachelor's in science
and business administration, but, you know, we don't have to put that in his bios.
We'll put the fact that in his bios, he spent three years in South America working with
indigenous people, and he has a background in business administration.
Yeah, it's kind of a con, but it works.
And then I did hire people with very good credentials who worked for me.
I always thought that people who were in the Peace Corps could not work for intelligence
agencies.
So you actually went to the Peace Corps after you were interviewed for the NSA.
And did they know you were going to go to the Peace Corps?
No.
So I wasn't working for the NSA.
What happened was, so I was desperately trying to avoid the draft.
I just didn't believe in the war in Vietnam, and I was not about to go off.
I liked what Muhammad Ali said, you know, he said something, and I'm paraphrasing here.
But like, you know, they never done nothing to hurt me, and I don't see any reason why
I should go off and kill them or be killed by them.
And I felt the same way.
And my wife at the time, her father was very high up in the U.S. Department of the Navy,
had the highest security clearance, and his best friend was very high up in the National
Security Agency, which was a draft-afferable institution.
And so they arranged for me to have an interview with the NSA, because this friend of the family
was so high up.
And I did that in the JFK building in Boston, the federal building in Boston, and I spent
a couple of days going through all sorts of tests, including a lot under lie detector.
And, you know, I thought, I figured I'd never get the job, because they asked me if I'd
ever had a, if I had been interviewed and had difficulty with the police.
And it so happened that I tell the story in the book where I was at Middlebury College
and was involved in a knife fight in a bar there that a friend of mine who happened to
be Iranian was, you know, pulled out a knife and cut the guy who was trying to beat up
on me, and he was thrown out of Middlebury as a result.
I quit Middlebury.
And so I thought, yeah, I had to admit that.
I was in this knife fight, you know, I went through all this stuff.
And they also asked me how I felt about Vietnam.
I said, I don't believe in it.
So I figured they're never going to hire me.
But as it turned out, at that point in time, they knew Vietnam was going down.
And, you know, they didn't care that I didn't really believe in the war, because they didn't
really believe in the wrong grief.
What year was this?
So, so this would have been 1960, 68.
And, and it turned out that the Iranian guy who was who pulled the knife and was a very
good friend of mine, his father was a general in the Shah of Iran's government.
And, and a CIA asset, his father.
So they liked the fact that, you know, I had, and I had lied to the police.
When the, when the, when the police in Middlebury, Vermont, I went to Middlebury
College, when the police brought me in to question me about what Fahar, the Iranian,
had he pulled a knife on this guy?
Had he, you know, had he gotten into a fight?
I said, no, I don't, not that I know of.
I didn't see anything like that.
Of course, I was right there.
I lied to the police and I admitted this under the lie detector that I lied to the police.
I thought, well, that would get me screwed.
But in fact, they liked the fact, they liked the fact that I had the guts to lie to the
police and get away with it.
And they liked the fact that I was good friends with this Iranian, whose father was a
very good CIA asset.
So it was kind of, kind of an interesting process.
So, so I get recruited and they offer me a job, which is basically as a trainee in the
National Security Agency.
And I'm ready to do that.
And then I'm still in college.
This is my last year in college.
And I haven't walked by this room where there was a Peace Corps recruiter giving a
talk and I wandered into the room and I listened to him.
And it struck me.
I've always, I'd loved indigenous people growing up in New Hampshire.
My family goes back almost 300 years and I had a great, great, great something.
Grandmother, who was captured by the Algonquin speaking Abnaki of the upper northeast.
And so I'd always had this fascination with indigenous people, with the Indians.
And I knew there was only one place in the world where people kind of still live
like that, the Amazon.
And I'd always had this desire to go to the Amazon and live with these people.
So after this, this Peace Corps recruiter finishes his talk, you know, I go up to him
and I said to him, you know, I said, Hey, you know, if I applied for the Peace Corps
and asked for the Amazon, do you think I might get it?
And he said, Are you crazy?
Yes.
Of course you'd get it.
Nobody wants to go to the Amazon and we're looking for people to go to the Amazon.
So I applied for the Peace Corps and asked for the Amazon and got it.
And so I was not working for the National Security Agency.
But while I was still there in the Peace Corps, the last year I was there.
I was there for three years.
I extended for his third year because I still was in 26 or still draughtable.
So I extended for a third year and Peace Corps is normally two years.
And on that third year, I was contacted by this guy who it turned out was a senior
vice president for Charles T. Maine, the company I ended up going to work for.
And he also was a lay son.
He was a he was in the Army Reserve, a colonel in the Army Reserve.
And he had the information about me from the NSA.
So he already knew a lot about me and wanted to recruit me for this job.
So while I was in the Peace Corps, I never worked for the NSA.
But the NSA had my files.
Did they ever ask you like, well, you wanted to do this interview
and then jet for the Amazon for three years?
Oh, well, yeah.
So after I hear this Peace Corps volunteer, I call the friend of the family
that my father-in-law's good friend who we called Uncle so-and-so.
I don't want to use his name, but it was very close.
And I called him and I told him, I just heard this Peace Corps thing.
And they said I could go to the Amazon.
And I'm really interested in that.
But I know you've you've gone out of your way to get me an invitation
to be a trainee with the NSA.
Well, what do you think?
And he said, oh, my God, he said, do it because you'll be a lot more valuable
to us afterwards.
You'll have learned another language.
You'll have learned to live with another in another culture.
You'll have learned to live to survive under very difficult positions.
And he said, and you know, when you get out, you may find that you're not
actually working for the National Security Agency, but you may be working
for a corporation that has liaisons with the National Security Agency,
which or the CIA, which is exactly what turned out to be the case.
So was this Peace Corps recruitment meeting happening in the NSA building?
No, no, the Peace Corps recruiter was at Boston University
where I was in my last year of college.
Oh, OK, totally separate.
They were totally unrelated at that time as it sounded like it was conveniently
close to where you interviewed for NSA.
No, almost like they planned it.
No, no, the NSA was downtown Boston and government center.
And Boston University is further up.
OK, I guess still in Boston, but it's on the outskirts.
What what country did you go to in the Amazon?
Ecuador, Ecuador.
Yeah. And that's where you learned Spanish.
Yeah. And that's a funny story, too.
So I finally get this letter from the Peace Corps saying,
you've been accepted to the Peace Corps and assigned to Ecuador.
And I said, oh, damn, I wanted the Amazon.
I wanted Latin America, not Africa.
I had no idea where Ecuador was.
That's hilarious.
And I go to a map and I left map of Africa.
I can't find Ecuador.
So I go to the index and the map and it takes me to Latin America.
Oh, my God, yeah, that's it's the name.
It has the name in the Amazon, the upper Amazon.
That is hilarious, man, I love it.
So three years and I was going to say Africa, three years in Ecuador
in the Amazon and what were you doing down there specifically?
Well, so you can't make this stuff up.
I, you know, so first the Peace Corps sends me to eight weeks of training
in Southern California, and this is to learn Spanish.
And if you speak another language, you know, eight weeks doesn't
doesn't get you too far, but you get to be, you get to be
get the basics conversant.
Yeah, I could pass the foreign service exam.
And also they taught me about credit and savings
corpse, how to form credit and savings course, because I had
a, you know, I graduated from business school, the Bachelor of Science in business.
And so now they send me into the Amazon.
And it was a very difficult place to get to.
It took a couple of days and a rickety old bus that was basically
a wooden box built on a four chassis that was filled with people who were,
my God, had pigs and goats and chickens and all these things on this bus
and people who didn't bathe.
And it was, it was, it was an awful experience.
You drove the whole way.
Well, I didn't, yeah, I didn't drive, but I'm on this bus
and we're sitting in these wooden seats for a couple of days.
And then you get to the end of the road and spend the next day
you know, walking and riding horses through these trails deep into the Amazon.
Whoa.
And I'm being assigned to live with the in the schwa territory.
Now, the schwa hunters and gatherers, if you've ever seen a shrunken head
or a picture of one, they did it because they're the other head hunters,
but they're the ones who actually shrink the heads.
So here I am going in there and as I'm making my way into this place
where I'm supposed to spend the next two years, there's some people walking
out to go to, you know, go to the market to get to the bus or whatever.
And so I just thought I'll practice my, my lousy Spanish.
To my chagrin, as I'm talking to these people in Spanish,
I find that they don't speak Spanish.
They speak schwa.
So my first experience with U.S.
government work was they teach you a language and send you to a place
where nobody speaks there.
And then I finally get to the little community
where I'm going to spend the next two years.
And this one guy greets me and he's the school teacher.
He's from up in the Andes and he speaks Spanish and we can communicate.
Sort of, you know, my Spanish isn't very good, but I can communicate.
And he like, well, why are you here?
And I said, well, I'm here to help you guys form your credit and savings co-ops.
And he looks at me like, are you crazy?
Like we're all in the barter system here.
We don't have any currency.
It's your bananas from my papayas.
And when you can't save credit, bananas and papayas, why are you really here?
You know, immediately that the community was pretty suspicious of me.
This gringo comes in, I'm taller than anyone, blonde hair.
Why is he here?
And it was it was a difficult situation.
And so my second experience with U.S.
government work is they teach you a skill and send you to a place where nobody can use your skill.
What suspicion, what reason would they have to be suspicious of you?
Well, was there a lot of people coming down trying to exploit them?
There was the areas has been known for gold.
And right now the Chinese have a huge gold operation.
So they had been prospectors and con artists and people.
So they were familiar with people trying to come in and take something from them.
And they assume that's what I was supposed to do.
And the funny thing, funny thing is, you know, so I told you, I grew up
for almost 300 years of Yankee Calvinists in New Hampshire and Vermont and Connecticut.
And if there's one thing that's ingrained in you and that that background is that
when you're sent in to do a job by God, you do it.
So I would get up late in the afternoon, early evening, every day in the center of this little
community and give a speech in my Lousy Spanish, which nobody understood about the benefits
of subcurrent and savings co-ops, because that was my job and I didn't have anything else to do.
And it fascinated me that every day more people came to hear me.
And it reached a point very quickly where people who were walking for several hours
through the forest, these indigenous people, and they didn't have flashlights.
They had to go back in the dark and I'm like, my God, I'm making a headway here.
I'm going to form a credit and savings co-op.
And the school teacher takes me aside one afternoon.
He says, hey, have you, he said, don't create your hopes up.
I know you think you're going to form a credit and savings co-op,
but have you noticed that we don't have any newspapers here?
They were illiterate.
We don't have any televisions or radios.
It was not electricity.
He said, you're it.
I was Saturday night live every night to that community.
So the word had gone out through the forest that this is crazy man, this tall, gangly,
blonde guy who gets up every day and gives this speech in a language we don't even understand.
And one guy who does understand him says he makes no sense at all.
He's trying to get us to do something we can't do.
He's crazy.
And he's not going to, he's not going to survive very long here.
So you better come here and why you got a chance.
I was like, the sideshow, you know.
So that was in the beginning when you first got down there and you experienced that.
And then did you ever make any headway with?
Well, about this time I'm beginning to think, damn, I should have gone to Vietnam.
I would have been with other people who speak English, other soldiers.
You know, we're going to have Budweiser and, you know, who knows, you know.
Cigarettes.
And better.
And the way better.
But of course we all know now that there's good stuff in the Amazon, isn't there?
I would find that out.
But I was, I was really depressed.
I mean, like, I'm going to spend the next two or three years here.
And it was, what am I going to do?
It was a struggle.
And then I got really, really sick.
I was dying.
I couldn't keep any food down.
I couldn't, and I reached a point where I couldn't even stand up.
I'm lying in the sleeping bag that Peace Corps had given me and on the floor of this, of this hut.
And I just, like, there was no way I could take that journey through the jungle back to the,
try to find one of those regular old buzzers and get back up to some medical facility.
So I'm kind of resigned to dying.
I am resigned to dying at this point.
And late one afternoon, the teacher comes up to me and he's leading this little old man
by the hand.
And this guy's scary looking.
He's practically naked.
He's got a loincloth.
But he's, he's, his body is covered with these tattoos.
And he's a little, but I'm lying down on the floor.
So he looked pretty big.
And, and the, and the school teacher says, this guy's the shaman.
I had no idea what a shaman was.
This is 1968.
And he says, he can hear you.
Well, what would you do, Danny?
I would say have at it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What else?
Let's get started, baby.
What have I got to lose?
Give me that good shit.
Give me that good dope, that good Amazon dope.
Yeah.
Well, I never, he didn't even know there was such a thing, you know, but that night he did.
And so this shaman did give me what we now know is, is ayahuasca.
And it took me on this strange, strange journey.
And, you know, I'm hallucinating and, and, but, you know, I've been going through
some pretty rough times anyway.
And I've been basically eaten for a long time.
And, and, but on this journey, I saw that, so at one point I've, I've got my eyes closed.
I'm, I'm lying on this bench.
There's some shaman man had carried me into the shaman's lodge and put me on this bench.
And I've got my eyes closed and all the shaman says, it's translated by the teacher, but
so this is going through a couple of steps.
The shaman says, touch the jaguar.
And it's the middle of the night in the middle of the jungle.
And there's, you can hear drag Jaguars at night.
We've seen their tracks during the day.
I know they're around there and like, oh my God, like, you know,
I wake up, I open my eyes and look around like, where's the jaguar?
And, and that all of the shaman says, no, no, through the translate.
No, no, close your eyes and see the jaguar and then touch it.
So I did.
And there was first this amorphous form and it became, looked like a jaguar.
And, and I reached out and, and touched it.
And as I did that, I saw and heard my mother saying, son, the food and drink will kill you.
And I got to tell you, so the people in the Amazon don't drink water from the rivers
because they know the rivers.
I've got organic material, dead animals that brought in trees.
It's dangerous.
So the women make a kind of beer that's called chicha.
And they make it by chewing manioc root and spitting it.
And the saliva acts like yeast.
It sets up a fermentation process and you get a beer and you can make,
can get very strong very quickly because you're in the tropics and you can add water to that.
And so that's what they drink.
And the foods, you know, one of the favorite foods is you're reaching to a
rotting log and pull out a handful of squirming white grubs and down the hatch.
Insects?
Grubs.
Yeah.
Worms in the wood.
Worms.
High nutrition.
Yeah.
High protein.
Yeah.
Piranha are actually a huge source of food down there too.
That's true.
Piranha, they're very bony.
But yeah, you can eat them.
They don't, they don't attack people.
That's another myth we can talk about.
But so I swam with a lot of piranha.
But so.
Really?
Yeah.
And then later in life, I hung out with a lot of piranhas who were in the human form.
But they're dangerous.
The ones in the rivers.
And that's another story.
But so, so, so I'm realizing I'm drinking a lot of spit beer because you got to rehydrate.
You're not drinking the beer to get f***ed up.
You're just drinking the beer because you need something to drink.
Yeah, that's all there is.
Basically what you can trust is because it's got alcohol.
So it's the water's now been kind of purified with the alcohol.
There's no way to, there's no way to like harvest the rainwater or the, or like water from like
clean streams to drink?
Well, yes, theoretically there is.
But that's not their culture and their custom.
They do a lot of chicha.
And it's considered also kind of a sacred drink.
The women make it and it's their gift to the men who bring back the animals for protein.
So the women make it.
So there's this exchange.
It's a real strong cultural thing.
So they drink a lot of chicha and they love it.
And you got to rehydrate frequently.
And I'm eating a lot of squirming white grubs and other things that I won't even mention
because there weren't any cliff bars.
So no Perrier, no cliff bars.
So I'm eating and drinking these things.
But I realized on this ayahuasca journey that as I'm doing this,
I'm hearing a voice like my mother in my head saying, it'll kill you.
My mindset was saying, it'll kill you.
And at the same time I'm seeing in the same vision quest
how robust and healthy the schwa are.
The men will carry two or 300 pound dead boars and tapirs that they've killed in the jungle,
out of the jungle.
They get legs that make a World Cup soccer star jealous.
And the women, well, I was in my early 20s in the quite promiscuous culture by
trust tradition, the women were looking quite good.
People live to be very old if they don't die in a hunting accident or dug out canoe or something.
Yeah, that's interesting.
That's interesting the mortality rate, the age they live to.
It's probably the same age if not older as normal cultures.
They just don't, unless they, as long as they don't die from wounds from hunting
or getting combat wounds or whatever it is.
Or there's a lot of deaths in childbirth at a time of very high infant mortality rate.
So that brings the whole average weight.
If you look at averages, that brings it way down.
But if people survive the first 10 years, they're likely to live to be very old
unless they're in the accident, like you said.
So I see on this experience that it isn't the food and drink that's killing me.
It's my mindset.
It's my perception.
It's this voice that's telling me it's killing me.
Our minds are so powerful.
And the next day I felt a lot better and I continued to feel better.
And the shaman came back and kind of was being translated later.
But it turns out he spoke more Spanish than he let on at the beginning.
He comes back later and says, you know, I cured you, you owe me.
And you need to be my apprentice.
Now, this is 1968, just going into 69.
And I have no, you know, I graduated from business school.
I want to go out and make money.
I want to say a lot of here.
There was no future in shamanism in those days.
There is today.
But the guy saved my life.
So I took it on.
And that changed everything.
The community now suddenly accepts me.
I'm training with one of their most revered elders.
I'm learning their culture and no longer being held in suspicion.
I'm enjoying it.
I'm learning how to prepare ayahuasca.
I'm learning a lot.
And more than anything else, I, you know,
the way he kept drilling into me was this idea of touching the jaguar,
which is the title of one of my books.
And the second from the last book I just wrote a couple of years ago.
And what he said that is that when we have a blockage,
when there's something that's holding us back,
when there's something that's changing our perception,
that's hurting us, if we run from it,
it'll chase us like a jaguar will if you run from it.
But if you reach out and touch it,
it gives you the ability, the energy, the wisdom to change your perception.
And when you change your perception,
you change your actions and then you change reality.
So this, this illiterate shaman was feeding me this very exciting philosophy
of perception moles reality.
And which later I would study with shamans in other cultures
and they all have the same concept,
but it's also the same concept that runs psychoanalysis,
modern psychoanalysis perception changes our reality,
you know, and business and politics.
Marketing is all about perception changing reality, you know, Danny,
you can't, you can't get what you want in life
unless you have a jacket just like mine.
And I'll be happy to sell this to you for a couple of thousands of dollars,
but you got to have it.
If you, if you want to have a successful show,
you got to have a jacket.
Right.
You know, I mean, that's the perception, perceptions mold reality.
And that's what I would use as an economic hit man.
But it was interesting.
So that's where I first really, really connected with this philosophical theory,
which I probably have heard in philosophy 101 in college,
but it never really meant much to me.
But now it's, it's, I've seen practically speaking.
So touching the Jaguar, what is the Jaguar an analogy for?
A blockage.
A blockage.
Something holding you back.
Something that's standing in your way of being all that you want to be
or breaking through a blockage.
So if that's a writer, if I have a writer.
So it's a, is it like a fear or is it something that we're conscious of?
Well, it's a, it, yeah, no, we're not, I mean, when you touch it,
you become conscious of it.
That's, that's, that's the secret is you've got to, you've got to confront it.
So it may be something, well, in this case, it was,
it was my mother's voice saying the food and drink will kill you.
That was the Jaguar, that was the drink will kill you.
And I believed it.
I believed it.
But what I saw when I touched that was it wasn't the food and drink that were killing me.
It was my, my mindset toward the food and drink.
And it's, you know, so many things in our lives, like, well, you can't,
you can't have a podcast.
You're not, you know, you're not, you're not the right color skin.
You, you, you don't have the best, you don't have the right education.
Something earlier asked about my education.
You can't be an economist.
You don't have the right education for that.
You can't, you know, people telling us, you're not good enough.
You're not, you don't have enough education.
You don't have the skills.
You're not, you know, you don't come from the right background, whatever.
You can't do this.
And those are these blockages.
And when we believe them, when we accept them, they, they created a reality for us.
But when we touch them and confront them and say, no, no, that's wrong.
I do have the ability to do that.
I don't need that kind of background.
Then we can move forward with things.
Isn't it interesting how drugs can have such a profound change on the way we think about things?
Yeah.
And, and things like ayahuasca, san Pedro, other things like that, these, these sacred plants,
I don't even like to think of them.
I don't like to think of them as medicines or drugs.
I think of them as something that gets into our spirit.
They can do that, but there's so many, like the Mayan people don't use,
I take groups to the Mayan.
I later studied a lot with Mayan shamans in Central America.
You studied with Mayan shamans?
Yeah.
And, and I still, every year I take groups of people down to hang out with them as they do.
Do you really?
Even the Amazon, yeah.
And they use fire ceremonies the same way.
They don't use, some of them are now beginning to because they see a way to make money by bringing,
by doing ayahuasca or something.
That's big, it's big, you know, this has been this whole commercial thing.
Oh yeah.
But it traditionally, it's done with fire ceremonies, which is,
as you're doing those fire ceremonies, you go into an altered state,
which is very, very powerful also.
And the Kogi up in the mountains of, the Sierra Nevada mountains of Columbia,
who I also spent time with, they use what they call
pagamentos, payments to the earth, where you just, you give something to the earth and you just
really go into it and feel your gratitude and you really go into an altered state.
And you know, drums will do it.
People take surgeries with drums.
So there's many different ways that open us to what we might think of as a portal to higher
consciousness, to looking at things differently.
But in every case, this analogy of touching the jaguar kind of works, you know.
Yeah.
It's amazing how much human sacrifice their minds are responsible for,
and how many people they would sacrifice in conjunction with their rituals,
their drug rituals, their ayahuasca rituals.
There's this guy who came on the podcast a couple of weeks ago, his name is Mike Corey.
He said he had one of the most profound ayahuasca trips of his life with a Mayan tribe,
I believe it was, maybe it was in the Amazon.
But anyways, he was, before that, he was just like the concept of human sacrifice made no
sense. It just seemed like a primitive, crazy religious idea, right?
To bring the rain, the rain gods would make it rain if you would sacrifice a certain amount
of people to them.
But then he said when he had this ayahuasca experience, it was like the universe being
ripped open, like a human being being ripped open and seeing all the insides come out.
That's what it was like him seeing the universe being torn in half and seeing all everything
that was inside of it. And he said like the way it made him feel,
it felt like something that was so powerful and so much bigger than himself that it would be worth
him sacrificing his life for it. And he thinks that he thinks that's how the way the Mayans thought.
Interesting, because increasingly the Mayan elders and shamans, called the Nanas and the
Tatas and the daykeepers and archaeologists and reading the glyphs, the writing that the
Mayan people have, are concluding, and it's controversial, nobody knows for sure, but that
the word was sacrifice didn't happen, that they executed enemies when the wars were,
they executed criminals, and they did those in a ritualistic way that also was to please the gods
or the spirits. They really only believe in one god, but then it's like chock, that the spirit
of the rain, and that they weren't sacrificed because sacrifice means that you voluntarily
do it to yourself or have someone do it to you, but you volunteer to do it. And increasingly,
that certainly is a body of thinking that there was no sacrifice. And I don't know,
I mean, I'm no expert in these things, but it's kind of interesting to look at these different
aspects, but certainly the rituals that the Mayan people did and continue to do today
open you to this portal, to this touching of the Jaguar. And the Mayans have so much to teach us
now, because they did to their world back around the year 800, 900 in our calendar,
what we're doing to ours. So in building these vast cities, these huge pyramids,
and these amazing, amazing cities, and there's many of them, and they're discovering new ones
all the time with Lidar. And the Amazon, too. Yeah, also in the Amazon. And this is,
in the Mayans, is Central America, but in building these cities, they drain the swamps
and cut the forest completely. And so they change their climate. And so it's very good evidence
that what they change their climate. Yes, really? Yes, they had drought. So, so when you cut,
how did we know they changed their climate? Well, because there's several ways, but I think the
most impressive one is that these pyramids are usually built, the several pyramids, it's like
those Russian dolls, one inside the other. So, so one king would build a pyramid, and then the
next king would come along and build a bigger pyramid over the first one. And then another king
over that one, and so on. And they've cut into some of these pyramids in the Paten Peninsula of
Guatemala, out near Tikal, this great city of Tikal. And near there, there's a pyramid, one of
several, where they've cut in. And as they go in, they see that, so what we see now are pyramids
that just look like they're, they're stone. And that's, that was the structure, but they were
covered with stucco, a kind of stucco plaster, and painted usually red, bright, I mean, these
three are bright colors. And in the original, the smallest pyramids, the, the, the, the plaster
is very thick. And, and each successive pyramid, the plastic gets thinner and thinner. And
there in the last one, it's very, very thin. And to, to make that kind of plaster takes a lot
of wood and very hot fires to melt down the limestone and turn it into this, this kind of
cement, this plaster sort of thing. And so that's one of the indications that, that they were just
getting rid of the trees. They were running out of trees. And, and, and then, and then, you know,
so again, through many other techniques, you can see how the trees were cut. And now that whole
area is a vast area of the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico and the Patana of Guatemala,
were probably just completely cut clear of trees. And the swamps were drained, kind of like what
happens here in Florida. And, and they can see that the crop cycles changed, that they weren't
producing the crops. The cities went to war with each other. Cities that had been relatively peaceful
went to war because of scarce resources. And so the theory is that as this happened,
so all the people, the people lived outside the cities, you know, there's only the royalty and
their administrators and priests who lived in the cities. The job of the priests was to call on the
rain gods and the sun gods and all the spirits to, to make good growing seasons. As the growing
seasons declined year after year after year, it was obvious the priests weren't doing their job.
And the cities were going to war with each other. So these people who lived outside the cities and
had to pay these huge taxes in terms of providing food, clothes, jewelry, everything to the cities
got fed up. And, you know, the priests weren't doing their job. These guys were now being called
upon to kill their neighboring friends, friends and other cities. And so they, they left the cities.
And they either went back to the jungle or most of them went up into the mountains
in primarily Guatemala, Honduras, where they've continued to live and, and conduct their traditions
and ceremonies as they did back then, except they don't build pyramids. They don't build cities
anymore. They live very simple lives, but they still do their forest ceremonies. They still
redo the calendar readings and their seed readings and things that go back thousands of years. Very,
very impressive culture that continues, but they stopped cutting trees and draining swamps
and building cities. And so they, they invite us down now because they say, look, you've got to learn
from us. We destroyed our world. And now you're destroying your world, which happens to be the
entire world. You think they destroy it? They think they're responsible for destroying the world?
They can look now and see that they've destroyed their world. That's what we consider a fairly
small area now of Central America. But what time, what, what was the time when the
Mayan civilization was at its peak? Do you know? Yeah. Well, the several periods,
the classical period though, runs up until about the year nine. And by the year 900,
that had basically disappeared. They left the city. 900, right? 900 AD in our calendar.
But it began several centuries before then. And so they had this peak period of building cities,
incredible construction that went on building these cities. Around 800, what does that say?
800 after two millennia of steady growth, the Mayan population reached an all-time high,
around 800. Wow. Right. And then it began to decline by 900. It was pretty much gone.
Hmm. Okay. So between 250 and 900, it was in its peak. Yeah.
Yeah. Isn't it remarkable how some of the most mind-blowing construction architecture
and moving of giant objects happened way, way, way back in the past?
Things that it would seem almost impossible for us to do now. Like, you know those like,
like even before the Mayans, there was the Olmecs. You seen some of those Olmec heads
that are down there? Yeah. Those things that weighed tons. We have no idea how they moved
those across those mountains or those rainforests. Right. Yeah. Well, and then you looked at that.
How the hell did they do that? And it showed the peak period there, 250 to 900. That's a long time,
a lot longer than we've been experiencing here. Right. Yeah, you don't even think about that,
right? But yeah, no, you don't. United States. How old is the United States? 200 or something?
Not even 200? No, it's not even 300. Oh, it's okay. 1780 was, I think, for a week.
Right. 1783. But yeah. And you know, the other thing that, yeah, look at that head,
I don't know, are we on visual too? Are we on video? Yeah, yeah, we're on video.
So people can see this. Yeah, people can see this stuff. Look at that.
Right. And that was before the Mayans, I think. Yes, I believe so. Yeah. And I think we know
very little about them. There's a huge pyramid that's outside of Mexico City, which I was just
that recently. We don't really know anything about the culture that built that. And the Mayans now
believe, you know, so Tikal and many of their other cities are built in the, to reflect Pleiades,
seven sister stars, a clump of stars. The Mayans believe they came from there,
as do many other cultures. It's interesting how this is belief system.
They believe what? That they came from Pleiades. From another star system. Yes. Yeah.
But you know something else, Danny, that fascinates me is we have no idea what's gone missing.
We know that the Mayans had books. And again, they're a glyphic type of writing, not an alphabet
like ours, but very complex. And there's four books that have been left. So when the Spanish
conquistadoris came in, they destroyed most of their books because they thought they were pagan.
Right. And then when the jungle took over, also already a lot of them had been destroyed because
on after 900, when the people abandoned the cities, the jungle took over. And I don't know,
you can probably find some pictures of them. They just ate everything. Yeah. So people thought
these were just mountains. They were actually pyramids covered with trees. And there still are
a lot of them like that. And who knows whether, you know, I mean, it's conceivable that they had
film or the equivalent of film, computers, lots of books. If they had four books and they probably
had a lot more books, we don't know what technologies they might have had that have been
destroyed. And if you think about it, if something should happen to our civilization now, some
horrible catastrophe that basically wipes out the cities, and then a thousand years from now.
There'd be nothing left. No. The Hoover Dam, Stonehenge, maybe not Stonehenge,
but the Hoover Dam would be here. We know there was a guy who wrote a horse. His name was George
Washington. Yeah. Yeah. It's just like what we find for them. These things that are in
stone, but there would be no cloud. There'd be no film. There'd be no books. They would have all
been just taken over by nature. That's why we got to get a hard drive to the moon and save all of
our information on it. So in case a cataclysmic event does happen and a comment wipes out our
civilization. Are you volunteering? No, I'm not volunteering, but I'm sure NASA probably thought
about that, right? You don't think they're going to put some sort of hard drive up there or maybe a
building and save the information? Or maybe even some people, maybe some DNA. I think you should go.
Oh man, I don't know. That'd be pretty scary. I don't know if I could do it. What a view.
Think of the view. The view has to be great, right? You know what I was wondering the other
day, why can't you see stars on the moon? You know when they're on the moon,
you know Edgar Mitchell talked about when he went to the moon. He's like,
when we went up there and did that mission, he's like, you couldn't see any stars. This guy,
which is black. Yeah. I wonder why. I knew Edgar. He was a friend. You knew Edgar? Yeah.
Really? He's gone quite well. He lived in Florida. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember on the day Allen
Shepherd, was it Allen Shepherd? I guess it was Allen Shepherd, who he was on the moon with when
he died. He called me and asked me to meet him for lunch. He was really torn up because he said,
you know, they're all dying now. And it's funny because he took me to his house and he showed me
the camera and the watch and these things, you know, they were, nothing was digitized. They
didn't have microchips. So all the things they carried up to the moon with them were these heavy
things encased. You know, they were just, it's hard to fathom how they carried this stuff up
there because it's so heavy, the things that they had were so heavy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Edgar was,
you know, he, then he, you know, he had this incredible experience on the moon and then came
back and created the Institute of Nordic Sciences. Yeah. Well, when on his way back, he secretly did
this telekinesis experiment with some people on earth, with some tarot cards or something,
I forget what it was, some sort of like cards they were using to see if they could transmit
communication back and forth with telekinesis. Yeah. And, and then when they got back,
all of them divorced their wives. They had all kinds of crazy, like psychological issues. They
were really distraught when they got back for some reason. And, and Edgar went through some very
difficult times that he did some pretty heavy drinking and, you know, it was a, it was a magnificent
human being. I think all of them did, right? A huge impact, I think. Yeah, I'm not sure of the
numbers, but I mean, I remember, you know, he used to come to our house for dinner. I lived in,
in the North Palm Beach area and he, he lived out near the glades in that area and he used to come
to our house and, you know, he just went through a lot of difficult times. Yeah. I think that whole
experience had an incredible impact. And, you know, here's a guy who was no, no, not woo-woo by any
stretch of the imagination. He, he was the right stuff. You know, he was a, he was an aircraft
carrier. He flew off aircraft carrier fighter planes to, during the Korean War. Right. And then he
became a Navy test pilot and he wanted to go to the moon and he said, you know, there were so many
good test pilots and people that he knew he had to have some, some, something that put him in a
higher category. So he went back to MIT and got a PhD in aeronautical engineering, I think, or
something like that. So now he has his PhD and, and so, you know, he gets selected because he had,
he can have the physical qualifications, but he also had the, and like you said, and then there
was this breakdown afterwards. It was a tremendous, yeah, emotional impact that's had on these guys.
Yeah. A lot of people speculate that the reason, and even in that, that post game press conference,
after the moon landing, all those guys looked just like depressed, uninspired. And, and a lot of
people kind of claim that that's because it was all fake. They never really went. They made up the
story. These guys thought they were going to go to the moon and they got briefed on some story and,
and then there was a, even a guy who like started up, started up some big movement about the moon
landing being fake. And he even wrote a book about it. It was in like the early 70s. I forget
this guy's name, but he's basically the guy who started the whole fake moon landing conspiracy
or the idea that it was, that it was fake. Yeah. And then there's a lot of big questions about it,
for sure. I haven't done enough research, but. Well, Edgar became very convinced in ETs and,
and Roswell. I mean, he believes that, you know, we, that the government was withholding information
about what they know about ETs landing here and shot down. So he, he, he, he, he, he believed in
that, but he certainly, he, he certainly believed that he was on the moon. Right. Right. It's just
like something, something happened though. Like it seems like there was something that happened
to those guys that is just, hasn't been explained to us or something that we can't comprehend. Maybe,
maybe it is just that phenomena, that psychological breakthrough that happens when you're seeing
the earth from far away and you're seeing, I forget what the word for it is, but there's some
sort of a psychological epiphany that happens when you're on your way back to the earth and
you're looking at the whole entire earth, all the, all the inhabitants of it, all the governments and
the nations that exist there. And it's just this like, this little ball and you're separated from it.
Yeah. And I don't think we have any idea what that does physically either. You know, the, the G
force is all the different things you go through. How does that impact your, your home hormonal
system? The overview effect. That's what it is. The overview effect is a cognitive shift reported
by some astronauts while leaving the earth from space. Researchers have characterized the effects
as a state of awe and self-transcendent and with self-transcendent qualities precipitated by
a particularly striking visual stimulus. The most prominent common aspects of
personally experiencing the earth from outer space are appreciation and perception of beauty.
But then why do you become a degenerate alcoholic and divorce your wife?
Unexpected and even overwhelming emotion in an increased sense of connection to other people
and the earth as a whole. Isn't that interesting? Unexpected and even overwhelming emotion. The
effect can cause changes in the observer's self-concept and value system and can be
transformative. Yeah. Isn't that interesting? Did he ever talk to you about that when you guys?
No. But you know, as I'm reading this, it strikes me that some, some people go through
similar types of things when they have deep traumatic experiences, you know, using some of
the plant, plant spirit guides, et cetera. Yeah. Yeah. This could, this could definitely translate
to, to drug experiences. Well, what, you know, what does that really mean? What, what do those
experiences do to us? And so the indigenous people tell, you know, that it's, it's the spirit of
the plant. It has nothing to do with the chemicals in the plant. It's the spirit and all plants have
spirits. So, so, you know, it's not just the ayahuasca, but anytime you go out in nature, you,
you feel the spirit of all the plants that you're with, the trees and talk to them.
Yeah. That's something that this guy, my buddy Paul Rosalie talks about when he first went
down there, he's from Brooklyn and he went down to the Amazon when he was in his early 20s, I believe,
and he lived down there for years. And what he, what he, the way he explained it was like,
when you get down there and you're walking through the jungle barefoot, after a couple
of days, something happens to you when you're disconnected from reality, you're disconnected
from modern society, you don't have a phone, you don't have a computer, you don't have a radio,
you don't, maybe you have a radio button, it's not with you. And you're just walking barefoot to
the jungle, you and your, all you have is your body and your clothes. Something awakens within
us. Like we have a deeper perception, deep, like more senses that become awake and alive within us,
the birds, the insects, all the little heartbeats beating around you. You just have, you're more
tuned into the world and to nature. And it's almost like, it's like, yeah, the idea is that
modern technology and these phones and everything that we have constantly surrounded with,
Ubers and, and whatever it is, AI is basically sucking the life out of us. It's, it's dulling
our senses. Yeah. Disconnecting us from reality. You really realize that when you go down to a
place like the Amazon, I've taken, in the past, since, since the mid 80s, I've been taking groups
every year. And I would dispatch your two, two groups into the Amazon to do different times,
never more than 15 people, a couple of exceptions. And I have to say, as I've been a couple of
thousand people over this period of time, probably there was a time when I was doing seven trips a
year. I think everybody's come back changed in one way or another. And in a very positive way,
almost always, which doesn't mean positive things necessarily. So I know a lot of people have come
back and gotten divorced and others have come back and gotten married and some have come back and,
and quit their jobs. That's interesting. Because it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it awakens a new
sensitivity in you. I think it's, you're facing your own reality deeper, touching that jaguar,
touching the things that have. Yeah, it's a new perspective, right? Yeah. Kept us in this box,
you know, of our belief systems and your belief system is kind of cracked open. Like,
it's all about perception, you know, what is truth? Right. And you, you, you, you, you,
in just a few days in the Amazon living and hanging out with the people who, who live there,
whose ancestors, you know, go back centuries, millennia living there, you, you get a whole
new perspective and the relationship with the plants and the animals. Yeah, it's similar to
that overview effect. Yeah. Very similar. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. All right. Well, let's get back to
your progression through this in your life. You, so you were down there and you spent three years
and then what happened when you came, when you decided to come back? Who did you start working
for? Did, did the guys in the NSA contact you? How did, what happened next? Well, I was down there
and this man named Ida Grieve, who was a senior vice president at Charles T. Maine,
this consulting firm out of Boston. How do you say it again? Charles T.
Maine. Charles T. Maine. Okay. It's, it's spelled C-H-A-S period, T period, M-A-I-N.
Oh, Chast T. Maine. Yeah, but it's Charles. I mean, that's what we call it. Anyway, Maine,
but you're just Maine. Okay. What kind of company is it? Consulting firm? Yeah. And a lot, it, it,
it's, it's, it's been sold since then. It was a private, it was a, it was a partnership. Oh,
look at that. It's on, even on Wikipedia. I found it in 1893. Engineering company,
specialized in power generation, mainly hydraulic power. Yes. And was bought by Parsons Corporation.
And so they eventually dropped, dropped the name of, of maintenance. They can't even,
it's hard to find it these days. In 49, they began an association with the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission, working on projects relating to plutonium-based nuclear reactors.
I was sent to, to Vienna to be the U.S. Representative at the International Atomic Energy
Agency meeting in Vienna. Yeah, the company had a lot of influence in that area. Wow.
They're former Maine consultant, John Perkins. Look at you. Maine consultant.
And author of Confessions of an Economic Hitman. I was, I was actually not a consultant to Maine.
My title was Chief Economist. But anyway. With details and issues of third world debt and neocolonialism.
Great word. Yeah. And the company doesn't exist anymore. It was bought up by, by Parsons and then
eventually they, they, they dissolved it. They dissolved, well, they dissolved the name. They
kept the clients and they kept the bottom. But you know, we've got to keep ahead. We have about
2,000 employees of which about a couple, a percentage of them were, were partners. And I was
actually the youngest partner in the firm's history. And pretty, it's pretty secretive company. We did
a lot of our clients, a lot of work for the governments. Our clients were World Bank and
American Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, U.S. Agency for International Development,
the U.S. Treasury, things like that. And a lot of it was pretty hush-hush.
So who started the company?
Well, it says, it says there got him Charles T. Maine back in the late 1800s.
Oh, oh, it was that long ago.
Yeah. So he started by the time I was there.
So how did this company get so wrapped up in intelligence and the people running the show
in the United States?
Only a few people in the company were, were involved in anything like that. I was one of them.
But, you know, the company did a lot of real straight line engineering.
So, so our job, like my job was to, and I had a staff of up to 50 people from anywhere from 20
to 50, depending on what we're talking about.
Got a drag race going on outside.
Is that what that is? I was afraid it might have been the helicopters coming in.
The black-out helicopters.
Yeah. They got better ways of ruining our lives now.
I don't know whether they're following you or me, but maybe it's both of us.
Maybe. Two for one deal.
So anyway, my, my job was to identify countries with resources our corporations want,
like oil was one of the big ones back then, and, and then convince the country
to take a, to convince the president of the minister of finance or whatever,
to take a huge loan from the world bank, to hire US engineering corporations to build big
infrastructure projects, like power systems, hydroelectric plants and the transmission
distribution lines and highways, industrial parks, things like this.
These are things that benefited, first of all, the companies that built them.
It was corporations that made huge profits off building them, but also benefited a few
wealthy families in those countries, including the president and his cronies, who owned the
commercial and industrial establishments that benefit from that infrastructure.
But it didn't help the people. In fact, the people, the majority of the people ended up
suffering because money was diverted from education, health care, and other social services to pay
off the interest on the loans. And in the end, the loans couldn't be repaid.
And so the, the contract with the company, through the world bank or whatever establishment
we were using as a banking institution was that their, their, their, their oil or whatever the,
the resource was that we coveted was collateral on the loan. So when they couldn't repay the loan,
we go back, I'd go back. And now it'd be basically working for the International
Monetary Fund, which is sort of the policing organization around all of this and say, hey,
we'll, we'll restructure your loan. But we own you, but we own you. And yeah. And you need to sell
your oil real cheap to our oil companies without many environmental or social regulations. You
need to privatize your, your water and sewage systems and sell them to our, to some of our
investors. You need to let us build a military base on your soil and vote with us on the next
United Nations vote against Cuba, for example. So basically we set these terms that were very
colonialistic. We were bringing them into our realm through the use of debt. So we were really
creating an empire, but not through the military. We realized after Vietnam that the military wasn't
very effective at, at winning the hearts and minds of people. And the way to do it was through
economics. Jesus Christ. Hold on. Let's, let's wait a second. There's a, there's a trash truck
emptying a dumpster right outside of our door. And it's, it's ridiculous. I'm glad to know that's
it's not a tank. Basically, you were just laying out the way you guys were colonizing the world
and strong-arming nations to basically bend to your will and let you use their resources for
a discount. Because you guys basically, you guys conned them into some bad loan
that they could never repay. Yes. And, and here's where the perception thing comes in. We provided
them with a really nice report. And that's where I came. I wrote good reports. I'd been an English
major, you know, I like to write so I could write these reports. And with all the statistics that
my guys had produced and, but this report would say, if you invest all this money in building
this infrastructure, hiring our companies to build this infrastructure, your economy will grow.
And we measured it by GDP growth domestic product. And it's true. When you invest this money in that
kind of infrastructure, the GDP grows. And so the president would be happy to take it out to his
people, take it to the newspapers and say, Hey, we've just taken out this loan, our economy's
going to grow. And it did. And I believe for many years when I was doing this coming out of a p-score,
I had a good conscience. I thought, I believe that I was doing the right thing because that's
what econometric show that when you do this, your economy grows. But what that, what that,
what we didn't understand, what I didn't understand is that GDP basically measures how well the
wealthy are doing, how well the big corporations are doing. It does not measure the prosperity
of the average citizen. No, no, no. It's the overall country. Right. So it's, it's a statistic
that's, that's warped in favor of big international corporations and, and the very wealthy and
powerful. So, but we were producing these reports. Well, it's warped in favor of the country, right?
Well, it's the GDP only reflects the country. It only reflects the wealthy people in the country
and the corporations in the country. The main, that's what it mainly reflects. Right. So you're
saying that, yeah, they're mainly responsible for the, for the largest percent of the GDP.
Yeah. Well, here's an example. Let's say there's three people in the United States that have as
much wealth as half the rest of the population of the United States. So if those three people
last year made 10% on their investment and half the country lost 3% and everybody else remained
the same, you can do a back of the envelope calculation, you would show a growth of almost
4% when in fact only three people made any money. Everybody else either stayed the same
or lost 3%. Right. And so these statistics are extremely, extremely deceptive, but they create
this perception and then they put the country, the country deep into debt and then we take
its resources. And so it's a very, very clever and insidious system. It's all based on a con.
So your chart that you would give them, showing them how their GDP would rise, how, how was that
chart, how did that chart work? Did you basically show them the money that they were going to make
or did you basically manipulate the chart saying that the middle class or the lower class was going
to be boosted by this? How did that chart look? The simplest answer to that is that you could,
you could chart other countries that are taking these loans. You know, you could just have a
graph and you'd have a whole series of countries and the ones that had accepted these loans and
built this infrastructure, their GDP was way, had gone way up. The ones that didn't get the
loans, their GDP was still way down here. That's the simplest explanation. But we'd produce much
more sophisticated models that went into each sector and showed what we could expect the industrial
sector to grow by the banking sector, the commercial sector, the agricultural sector. So we created
these very, very sophisticated, complicated, econometric models that nobody but an economist,
a kind of nutrition, could understand anyway. But the World Bank liked them because they were
all into that kind of stuff. And the presidents liked the conclusion. And incidentally, so the
other thing was that these presidents or ministers of finance knew that if they didn't accept these
loans, then the people we called the jackals would step in. Felix Rodriguez. I think Felix could
be rated as one of those. But yeah, these are people that either overthrow governments or
assassinate leaders and usually they don't even need to step in. So basically, I go into a president's
office and I say, look, Mr. President, here's a few billion dollars I can offer you in a loan
that you can use to really improve your GDP. Or if you don't take this loan, I've got a gun
in this other hand. Now I didn't carry a gun, but he and I both knew there were people behind me
that carried guns. And, you know, they'd overthrown Allende in Chile and Arbenz and Guatemala and
most of the deck in Iran and La Mumba and the Congo. So we're talking about the CIA, CIA,
CIA knuckle draggers. CIA operatives. And sometimes it's very convoluted. So the CIA may actually use
operatives from Argentina or some other place where they've got influence so they're not directly
connected. But it's there are these people. And the presidents of these countries know
that they're there. And so, you know, what do you do if you're a president? I tell you, hey,
hey, Mr. President, I'm going to help you become rich and look really good to your people. Be
reelected and your families own these industries and they're going to benefit from these,
from better electrical power and better highways. So I can off you this or don't take it and you
probably be thrown out of power and maybe taken out. Well, first thing, if I had half of a brain
and I was aware of this kind of thing going on, I would avoid a meeting with you at all costs.
So why would they take a meeting with you if they knew about this kind of shit?
Because you probably, if you're in that position and I come down and say, hey,
I represent the World Bank, I'm going to help you and your family improve your businesses.
And they have no idea you're part of the United States.
No, they probably do. But they know the World Bank is basically, you know, to a large degree
controlled by the United States. President of the United States decides who's going to be the
president of the World Bank and we are the largest investor by far in the World Bank. We have a lot
of influence there as we do with the Asian development and all of those banks. It's called
The Washington Consensus, which is the Treasury Department and these various banks that get
involved. So yeah, they know I'm connected and they want to hear about these loans,
they can offer them. It's going to make them look good in office. They're going to look good.
And then I'm going to be around, you know, five or six, more like 10 or 15 or 20 years from now
when we go back in and call in the loans and say, you know, you've got to give all your oil to our
people. So when you're being initiated into this whole world, right, and you're being trained to
do what you're about to do, how did that work? How much did they tell you? How much did they tell
you about what you were doing and like what the ends were to this? And how much of it were you
ignorant to? Well, so I was trained by this woman named Claudine who was, had a business
guard this year. She was a consultant to my company, Charleston, Maine. And she had all
this information about what I wanted out of life, money, money, power and sex. And she offered me
all of them. She did. Yes, she did. Yeah. So she did the training in this apartment that she had
on Beacon Street, very close. So our headquarters were in Boston at the Prudential Center.
She not only gave me sex, but she taught me how to, how to, I was very shy. I grew up in a boys
prep school. My dad taught at this boys boarding school in New Hampshire. I spent my life with
boys and I was very, very shy around women, you know, and I really wanted not to be, and Claudine
knew this and she handled it very, very well. She seduced you? Didn't take much.
But she also taught me how to seduce other people because she said this could come in
really handy sometime with it, you know, with the wife of some guys in a very important position
that you may need to get information out of. You know, so I went through this training in this
little apartment in Boston while I was also had a desk at the, in our, in our office building in
the Prudential Center. But she told me, you know, basically what I'd be called upon to do. Also,
I mean, she taught me the ropes of the business, which was to go to these countries and convince
these guys to take these loans. But it was all held out to me by her and by other people that
Charles Steven, that I was doing a really good thing. So, you know, I was doing what the Peace Corps
is supposed to do, which is help countries, help people. But I was doing it on a very big level
because I was helping these economies to grow. And I graduated from business school. I've read all
the reports the World Bank puts out. It was all this information that shows that when we invest
money in these big infrastructure projects, hire U.S. corporations to build these massive projects
the economy grows, everything gets better. And I believed it. I believed it because the statistics
show that that, in fact, is what happens. So she said nothing about the jackals?
Well, she, no, she did. I mean, she mentioned, she mentioned that, you know, sometimes presidents
who, who balk at these sort of things get into trouble with their, with their constituencies.
And then, you know, we've also got to be careful because this is red tide of communism that's
sweeping the world. Remember, this is at a time when we were convinced of the domino effect
that if we lost the war in Vietnam, the communists that would take over somehow, you know, Ho Chi Minh
was going to, going to move into Indonesia, which was my first assignment to go to Indonesia and
convince the Indonesian government to play one of these games, to take this money, hire us to build
a big power system on the most populated island in the world, Java, which, which also happens to
have the biggest Muslim population of any place in the world. Java, Indonesia? Indonesia is huge
Muslim population. I don't know whether today it's still the largest or not, but it was. And it was
struggling. It was its, its, its president was flirting with the Soviet Union and China and us.
And we wanted to make sure they went with us. So part of this whole operation ties in again with
Felix Rodriguez and this belief, and it was very strong in Latin America, what's called the red tide
of communism was taking over Latin America. Che Guevara and the Cubans were launching this campaign
supported by the Soviets. And we needed to stop that. We needed to get these countries to buy
into our system to become part of our empire, if you will. And so there was this driving force.
And I believed in that, that, that idea. And I believe that the best way to solve it was economics
because we had proven that the military wasn't going to do it in Vietnam. We were either losing
or had lost the war in Vietnam. And it, it plus it just never seemed like a very efficient method
of killing people in order to win them over. So this seemed like a really, really good idea.
For many of the years that I was doing this, I really believed I was doing the right thing,
as I think many people who still do these sorts of things believe that they're doing the right thing.
So she told you, even though you're going to do this and we're going to make their GDP better,
we're going to help their people as well as help us. If they don't agree, they're going to get the
stick. Well, if they don't agree, they're probably socialists or they're probably Soviet agents,
they're probably Soviet puppets. And so they may need to be taken out. And that's,
that was the justification of her going after Allende in Cuba and Arbenz and Guatemala
and Mossadeq and Iran and all of these people. And we're only mentioning presidents, but we've
also gone after a lot of ministers of finance and, and people lower down that don't make the news
quite as much. So the idea being that if they're not willing to play our game,
then they're probably Soviets or they're Soviet puppets. And our press, if these people didn't
play the game, you know, our media machine would go to work to get out into the press.
While Allende is a Soviet, he's this communist. Well, Allende in Chile was a socialist,
but he was not a Soviet communist by any means. He was a socialist and he won't,
and he was democratically elected. We took him out and we did the same thing with,
in a number of other countries, you know, this whole, it was such an, I fell for it.
But as I look back, how did I fall for it? Like this idea that Che Guevara
with what, 25 to two dozen people, idealist poets,
was going to take over Latin America. And Cuba was going to support this. And Cuba was having
its own struggles and the Soviets were pouring some money into Cuba, but not a lot. The Soviets
weren't really that involved. There was no real red tide. There was.
Well, they put their nukes on Cuba.
Yeah, they did. And then they tried to put more in Canada. They stopped them. But, you know,
when you think about it, we've got nukes surrounding the Soviet Union.
Oh yeah, we do.
Hey, I can have a gun, but you can't.
Right, exactly.
You're the bad guy. Anyway.
Yeah, part of that agreement for them to remove the nukes was they wanted us to remove our nukes
out of Turkey, or was it Italy? It was either Italy or Turkey?
I think it was Turkey.
But this whole concept of this red tide, what was really there was there was a very strong
socialistic movement. There was an anti-capitalism movement, an anti-U.S. movement, basically.
Nelson Rockefeller had really pissed people off when he was vice president. He came to Latin
America. I was there at the time as a Peace Corps volunteer. And there were riots. People
did not want this man in Latin America. He owned a lot of stores that were considered to be
exploitative grocery stores and other businesses, his family owned businesses. They also owned
Standard Oil. They were raping, especially Peru at the time of its oil and were moving into Ecuador.
So there was this very strong reaction against American imperialism. And that moved people
more and more towards socialism. And so we then, a lot of us believe, but this propaganda machine
also went into effect of convincing our population and the population of many of these countries
that it was driven by the Soviet Union, that the socialist movement in Latin America was not
a socialist movement. It was a Marxist Soviet movement, which it wasn't for the most part.
You think it was, you think, what did you think it was? You thought it was?
It was a socialism. In other words, land reform. Take land away from the big
international corporations. That was one of the things that a lot of these presidents wanted to do.
Raise taxes on the rich. Give more land and more social services to the poor. There was a movement
in that direction, which was called socialism. But that's not what happened in Cuba, right?
I mean, people were literally hanging from the street signs in Cuba if they weren't giving
up their businesses to the government. Yeah, Cuba was, I mean, that was a true revolution.
But that wasn't happening anywhere else. And Che apparently...
Che was slaughtering people left and right, children, women. I mean, that guy was the worst
human being, the worst type of human being that could ever exist.
Well, you only had 24 people, I think, or 25 with them in Bolivia.
When he got caught?
You're talking about slaughtering people in Cuba.
Yes, yes. But by the time he reached Bolivia, which is where...
Oh, he was Ronan when he... I think Castro had given up on him then.
He kind of like cast him out of Cuba and had separated himself from Che.
Yeah, yeah. But from our standpoint, we were selling the information, false information,
that he was... that he had a big force, that he was recruiting people,
that he was part of this... he was spearheading this red tide of communism, which was a myth.
But I believed it.
Well, I mean, he definitely wanted to, right? He may not have been in the threat that we made him
out to be, but he was definitely... that's definitely what his aspirations were. I mean,
he went to the Congo and tried to... what did he try to do in the Congo? He tried to start
up an army in the Congo that ultimately failed.
Yeah, and Angola was you. Angola.
Angola was just this kind of a training ground for all of us. He was in Angola.
Now, remember, so he was executed, I think he was 67, and I went in the Peace Corps in 68.
So by the time I'm an economic hit man in the early 70s, he's long gone.
Right, right.
But there was still this idea that the influence of the Soviet communism
was driving the socialistic movement in Latin America. There was a socialistic movement in
Latin America, but in my opinion, as I look back on it, it was probably a movement in the right
direction, and it was not a pro-Soviet movement at all. It just happened to be... it's socialism,
not communism. But the whole specter of Che was still very much lingering in the air,
as being obvious, as evidence that the Soviets and Cuba had been very deeply involved.
In Latin America, right? Well, I mean, the Soviets were funding the
the Iran... or they were funding the Sandinistas, right? Or was it the Contras? I always forget
who was on whose side. We were funding the Contras, right? And they were funding the
Sandinistas, is that right? They were funding the Sandinistas. Right, yeah, they were funding
the Sandinistas. Yeah, the whole Iran Contra fiasco. That was a proxy war, right, with the Soviet Union,
because they were funding them, and then we were funding the Contras. We were selling arms.
We were selling arms and giving money to the Iranians.
But we were also down there, boots on the ground, training the Contras.
Yes, and Oliver North played a huge role in that. The biggest commercial airport in Costa Rica today
is Liberia, which was built by Oliver North as a huge military base. Beautiful runway. I fly in there.
It's bigger than San Jose? Yeah, I think it's... I was just there last week.
In San Jose or Liberia? I was near Liberia. I was on that part of the... on that part of the...
I was near Nosara. Oh, you were? And that's just where I teach every year.
Really? Yeah, I teach at Blue Spirit, which is right there. Oh, okay, cool.
You used to be part of Omega Institute in upstate New York. Why do you teach down there?
Because they invite me to. Oh, really? That's cool.
Yeah, I've been teaching there for a year. Ever since it first got started.
So you probably flew into Liberia. No, I flew into San Jose. I took a
puddle jumper from there over to Cabano. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I know that airport.
I was a little bit south, a little bit south near Santa Teresa.
Well, the nearest... actually, the nearest airport would have been Liberia, but into...
So it was this huge long runway where they could take the largest airplanes to the U.S.
military ahead of that time and that Oliver North oversaw the construction of this.
And then eventually it became a commercial airport, which it is today, to a World Bank financing.
All right, so where were we? Your first assignment was going to Indonesia
and trying to do a deal with the Indonesian head of state.
Yeah. And who was that?
Suharto, Sukarno, Suharto, Sukarno.
Okay. And how did that one go?
Well, there was this transition. I always get those names confused.
Was it Sukarno who was overthrown in Suharto?
No, Suharto was overthrown in Sukarno. Look it up.
Who overthrew who in Indonesia?
Sorry. No, that's okay.
Let's get it right. All right.
Those two names are so close. It's just, it's a...
Suit, how do you spell?
Sukarno.
Su...
K-A-R-N-O.
A-R-N-O, okay, cool.
Yeah. Okay, general.
Well, that's Suharto, okay.
That's Suharto.
The military...
General Suharto largely took control of the country
in the western-backed military overthrown.
Yeah. So he overthrew Sukarno.
Okay.
And now you've got Suharto, but he's still...
There's this flirtation going on between the Soviets,
the Chinese, the Americans, and our NATO allies
to try to win the hearts and minds of Indonesia.
So Indonesia is seen as critical because Vietnam has fallen.
And the domino theory would say that...
So one of the next countries that Ho Chi Minh would move into
would be Indonesia.
And it's a country that at the time was considered
to be extremely rich in oil.
And it had this large Muslim population,
which was another benefit to gain from it.
And it's in a very strategic location for trading routes.
Through the sort of the straits of...
I can't remember the other straits, but anyway.
So my job was to go in and win my first job.
After I finished with Claudine in Boston,
and I go off to Indonesia to try to convince them
to take one of these large loans
and use it to hire my company and other...
We didn't do construction.
We were an engineering company.
We did design and construction management.
So the big construction companies were ones like Bechtel,
Halliburton, Brown and Roots, Stoner, Webster.
They would get the big jobs,
but we would get our piece of the action.
And my job was to go in and convince the Suharto regime
to accept these loans and hire our companies to do this.
And in the process, we would be integrating them
into our imperialism, if you want to call it that,
into our sphere of influence,
and keep the Chinese and the Vietnamese
and the Russians out, or the Soviets out.
And it was really funny, Danny,
because I had no idea what I was doing.
You know, I've been in the Peace Corps.
I know I can survive under these circumstances.
And now I'm going to be staying in applying first class
from Boston to Indonesia, spending...
I had to spend a couple of weeks in Australia,
at the University of Australia,
where they had a great library of Indonesian economics.
They knew more about Indonesia and economics
than the Indonesians.
So you were there to study?
Well, I went to Australia for about 10 days, I think,
and meet with some of the professors.
So because I needed to write this report
to convince everybody.
So then I go to Indonesia for three months.
And when I...
But I really have no idea how to approach these people.
And I remember, you know, one incident
where I was meeting with this guy from the embassy,
who'd been dealing with Indonesians for a long time,
and all kinds of things.
And Claudine had kind of taught me the basics.
But now I've actually got to sit down
with the Minister of Finance and others.
And I never actually sat with Suharto,
but with people under him, and convinced them,
and talked to them about these economic terms
that I really didn't understand too well.
And so this guy from the embassy was sitting at the bar
at the Hotel Indonesia, the Intercontinental Hotel,
the best hotel in town, where I'm staying,
and we're at the bar.
And he says, well, you know, John,
if you don't really understand, just look at the guy
and kind of roll your eyes, and scratch your chin,
and say, oh, yeah, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Yeah, that's interesting.
Could you go into more detail?
Explain exactly what I mean.
What do you mean by that?
And he said, just keep asking questions,
and act like you know something.
Act like you're really, really wise.
Kind of intimidate the other person
into thinking that you really, you know,
but you're interrogating in a basic way.
Yeah, so it was great advice.
It worked pretty well.
And so I left my way through the first month or so
that I was there at three,
and then began to catch on to how you do this thing.
So at what point, how long did it take for you
to get intoxicated on this money and power
that you had attained by doing this
and swindling these people in high places?
It wasn't intoxicating, but again, I go back to,
I didn't think I was swindling them.
I thought I was doing them a favor
because I'd seen all the studies.
I'm still very naive.
I haven't, and this lasted for about seven years or so
that I didn't see the light until I had an event
after about the seventh year,
where I began to understand the nefariousness
of what I was doing.
But for most of that time,
and I was only in that job for 10 years.
So for 70% of that time, I believed in what I was doing,
which made it all that much easier to convince others
because I was convinced.
And all I had to do was produce these reports
and convince the people that I'm going to give the reports to
that I knew what I was talking about.
Right.
How did you discover that this was all a sham
and this was all just some elaborate scheme
to create some giant super empire for the U.S.?
Most of the presidents and other top officials
that I worked with bought into the system.
You know, they played the game.
There were two that didn't,
and one was a democratically elected president
of Ecuador, Jaime Roldoz,
and the other was Omar Tarijos,
the head of state of Panama.
And they were both clients of mine,
but Omar became, I'd like to call him a friend.
He was a party animal.
He loved to have barbecue.
He was a lot of ramen, cigars, and beautiful women.
Wow.
Did you get to join?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, nice.
But he was, you know, and he was a great president too,
and he was really, he would not play the game.
At the time, he was very determined to get the Panama Canal
back in the hands of Panamanians,
which he eventually did with the treaty
that he and Carter negotiated together.
And, you know, Panama's a small country,
seems insignificant other than the Panama Canal,
but he was standing up to,
people called him the David standing up to the Goliath,
and he was famous all over the world because of this,
because he was taking this lead,
and he was very charismatic, very photogenic,
good-looking guy, and he took me aside upon several occasions
and said, John, don't you realize what you're doing?
You're selling a lie.
That's bullshit that you're giving about increasing GDP.
Yeah, that may have them,
but that doesn't measure with how the people are doing.
And at one point, he said to me, hey,
why don't you actually, the setting for this.
So, sorry, what country are we talking about right now?
Panama.
Panama.
Okay.
So, Toriho.
Yeah, Toriho's.
Toriho's.
Oma.
And so, we're on this yacht, which, you know,
some thought he's, none of it wasn't his,
but we're on this yacht and we're sitting in the cockpit of this yacht,
this beautiful yacht, drinking margaritas or something,
and we're surrounded and smoking Cuban cigars,
and we're surrounded by these beautiful young women
and their bikinis, you know.
Topless.
Yeah, I think probably at least one or two of them was,
but, and Oma says to me, he says, John,
why don't you come work for me?
Because, you know, you won't make nearly as much money,
but you'll feel really good about yourself,
and you'll have a lot of fun.
And he's, you know, look what we're doing, you know.
And he, he really laid it on the line to me,
what I was doing, the lie that I was selling the world and myself.
And so, he really opened my eyes to this,
and then I started looking at it more and more.
And I was also dating a woman.
I did, I was in the process of going through a divorce with my first wife.
And I was, I was dating a woman in Columbia.
She was Colombian, and she also did business in Panama.
She, she had a little factory where she designed clothes and made clothes,
and she bought a lot of the materials in the free zone of Panama.
And, and, and her brother was a member of what would become FARC,
you know, this famous organization, Terror,
we call it, now it's the terrorist organization.
Yeah, in Columbia.
And, and he, he, he, and, and she also said, you know,
you don't really understand what your country's doing.
So, the big truck just went by again, anyway.
So, she also really understood.
She said, you know, you got to, you got to stop doing this, John.
You know, it doesn't, and I'm beginning to,
my conscience now is beginning to bother me.
I'm beginning to really get at what we're doing.
And I'm looking at it more deeply.
And I said, you have a, her name was Paul, Paolo.
That's what we call, that's what I call her in the book,
that wasn't her actual name.
But, I said, but I can't get out.
You know, they won't let me out.
My life will be in danger.
And she said, no, I think if you just tell them,
you're tired, you want to retire, you'll never write about this or speak a word of it.
And, you know, give us a try.
So, she's putting pressure on me.
And Torejo says, is reading me the riot act of all of this.
And so, I really began to understand that what I was doing was wrong.
Was Torejo the first guy who said no?
Yeah, well, both he and Roldos about the same time were saying no,
but I spent more time with him.
And Roldos was a lawyer and a former professor of law.
He was president of one country?
Ecuador.
Ecuador.
And I didn't really know him well.
He wasn't, he wasn't, you know, it wasn't as easy to get to know,
but it wasn't as much of a, he was kind of an introvert.
Got it.
And Torejo's was the opposite.
So, I got to know Torejo's quite well.
And anyway, so after about seven years of believing that I was doing the right thing,
I'm suddenly discovering that no, I'm not.
And I'm lying to myself and I'm lying to the world.
And, but I didn't want to believe the truth that I knew now was the truth
because I'm suddenly making a lot of money.
I mean, I grew up with a son of a teacher at a boys prep school in New Hampshire.
We never had much money at all.
My house was given to us on campus by the school.
I ate with 200 plus boys in a big dining room from the time I was four years old,
never wanted for food, never wanted for a home, but we never had any cash.
And I felt very poor in some respects.
And here I'm surrounded by wealthy, wealthy boys who, who, and then I went to that school
for four years of high school.
And during Christmas vacation, I'd stay and appear in the snow ridden New Hampshire town.
I had a key to the gym that my dad had and, and I'd throw basketballs or practice tennis
against the walls by myself.
My friends would be off, you know, they'd come back talking about the orgies that they had had
in Paris or Buenos Aires or whatever.
I had this complex and now suddenly I'm flying first class around the world.
I'm wanting and dining with presidents and I've got a lot of women available.
And, and so all these things that I'm making a really good salary and a partner in this firm.
So I don't want to believe what I'm now coming to know is the truth.
Right.
I'm in denial.
And I think there's a lot of people in this business that are there today.
How many guys were there like you?
I don't know.
No idea.
No idea.
Didn't know anyone else was doing the same thing.
Well, I'd run into people.
We didn't, you know, we, yeah, I'd run into people who worked for other companies like mine
certainly because I probably knew half a dozen to a dozen of these guys that I would run into,
but we didn't.
But you weren't the only guy working for your company.
I was doing the same thing you were doing.
I was the only one writing those reports.
I had guys under me.
You were okay.
And you had a president above me that I reported to, but I was in charge.
And so, you know, for, for about three years, I continued to play the game.
And my conscience was getting the better of me, but it was increasing.
It was increasing and I was getting pressure from Paula in Columbia and getting
pressure from Tarihose and others now and beginning to just, I'm asking questions.
I'm looking into this, but I don't really want to know the answers.
It was tough.
I was living in these two, two worlds really.
And then I took a vacation in the Virgin Islands and I rented a small sailboat and I was with
a woman who worked for me and was with me.
Doll.
Yeah, I know.
In those days, it wasn't frowned upon quite as much as it is today, although we were pretty quiet about it.
But, and we anchored the boat in Maho Bay or Francis Cove on St. John Island, the Virgin Islands.
And, and I rode the dinghy ashore and took a six-backer beer with me.
And I climbed up this hill to the Annenberg Plantation.
It's that old, old sugar plantation that was in ruins on this hill.
And, you know, sitting there looking, it's ideal, it's idyllic.
There's bougainville, there's beautiful flowers.
There's this old plantation and I'm sitting in the sun setting over the Caribbean.
I'm drinking a few beers and I'm thinking, God, this is the life.
This is, this is so beautiful.
Suddenly, I was struck by the fact that this, this plantation was built on the bones of thousands of
slaves.
And then I realized the whole American hemisphere is built on the bones of millions of slaves,
not just from Africa, but from, you know, indigenous ones here.
And we brought them in from China, you know, whatever.
And then I had to admit that I, too, was a slaver.
I wasn't dragging people out of the forest and putting them in chains, but I was
enslaving them with debt.
I was the modern form of a slaver.
And I really pissed off at myself.
I remember this while I'd written about it.
I picked up this big stick that I found there and I'm slamming it against the tree.
And I'm just really, really angry at me and the system and everything.
And at that moment, I made the decision I wouldn't ever continue with it.
And so a couple of days later, I go back to Boston.
I go up to the president, my boss, and I resigned.
And of course, he told me I couldn't and gave me, and I took another sort of little job
being a consultant to him for a while.
I, you know, it was hard getting out.
It was very, very difficult getting out.
Plus, at this point, I wouldn't have a job.
So I lingered for a while around the fringes, but I basically, at this point,
made the decision and I never did any more of that international work.
So when I was a consultant to him, I worked with the Burlington-Burman Electric Department,
who were building a wood-fired power plant.
And I did some work with some of the utilities in New York State,
doing economic studies for them and some other companies.
So I was doing, I continued to get paid and be part of the company and not talking about it.
Real quick, going back to Tariho and Panama, what was the pitch to him?
And after the pitch, obviously, it took a couple of years for you to have your epiphany on this
stuff.
But what ultimately happened to Tariho?
Well, so when I went down, the idea was to get him to accept a large loan
to build a huge couple of big hydroelectric plants.
Hydroelectric plants, I guess.
And also transmission lines and distributions to modernize the electrical system of the country.
And he immediately said, no, I'm not going to do that.
He said, but if you want to work here, do small-scale projects, help our small fishermen
and our small farmers, little irrigation projects and storage projects for the
rural farmers can store their grains and can store their produce and help the small farmer.
If you want to do that, I'll let you in.
And I went back to my boss in Boston and told him this.
And he said, yo, let's do it.
We'll get in good.
We've never done this kind of thing.
It's not going to make any money for us.
But we'll work on winning Tariho's over and maybe eventually we'll get to do the other projects.
So we did that.
And I sent a number of the people who worked for me down there.
They spent time down there, one of them included a woman who was a sociologist who did social
studies, which he very much wanted.
It was totally different from anything Charleston made it ever done before.
And it was successful from that standpoint.
And it endeared me to Tariho's.
But at the same time, he's telling me, yeah, that's all the stuff you're doing in these other
countries. And what you wanted to do here isn't going to help the people of these countries.
It's going to help a few rich people.
And that's it.
And what about the president of Ecuador?
What happened with him?
Well, he refused to do anything.
He refused to take the loans that I was suggesting.
And what was your guy's interest in Ecuador?
Oil.
Oil.
Oil.
But so both of these guys died in very, very suspicious private plane crashes within less
than three months from each other in 1981.
The first one to go down was Roldos.
And he's in his plane with his wife and a couple of staff members.
And the plane went down under very mysterious circumstances that all of Latin American press
said was an assassination.
And of course, the U.S. and everybody else denied that.
You know, if you're going to kill somebody, an airplane, a small plane crash is a really
good way to do it because the smoking gun goes up in smoke.
It's hard to find any proof.
And Tariho at that point got his family together.
And he said, you know, my brother Jaime Roldos of Ecuador was just assassinated.
I'll probably be next.
But don't worry about it because I've done what I needed to do.
I've successfully negotiated the Canal Treaty with President Carter.
And the Panama Canal is going to revert to Panamanians by the end of this millennium.
And less than three months later, almost exactly the same thing happened to him.
His private plane went down with his wife.
And I've since been friends with this daughter who was 17 at the time and then became,
I'm sorry, I'm going back to Ecuador, this is the daughter Roldos who,
Marta Roldos, who has become a friend and became a legislator in Ecuador.
And, you know, very, very intimately involved with the story.
And the family, what do they think about this?
What is like the daughter?
What does she make of the plane crash?
Does she think it was U.S. assassinating him?
Yeah, she's very careful because she's a politician in Ecuador.
So she doesn't want to piss off the United States because,
so she's very careful about what she says in public.
What is the U.S.'s role in Ecuador and Panama now?
Do we have, did we ever successfully implement any of these things after you left?
Yeah, we built some big hydroelectric dam that I go by.
I take groups by, every time I go into Ecuador,
like I'm going to do in a couple of weeks.
And that was one of the ones that I financed.
A hydroelectric dam?
Yeah, got permission to build.
But what's happened now is the Chinese have taken over, basically.
So how do they take over from us?
Okay, so here's a story of how it happened in Ecuador,
which is sort of a model for other places.
So when there was a period of, I think it was 10 years,
and Ecuador had eight presidents,
and they may have those numbers just a little wrong,
but it's very much in that category.
I mean, just coups and countercoups.
And then in 2010,
there was a Democratic-elected president named Rafael Correa.
And Correa, who's also become a friend,
I was just on a TV show that he produces out of Mexico now.
Oh, wow.
And he was president for 10 years.
He has a PhD from the University of Illinois.
So he knew in economics.
So he knew our system really well when he came into power.
And he'd got his master's degree MBA in Belgium.
He was married to a Belgium woman.
And as soon as he came into power,
one of the first things he said was,
Ecuador does not,
the Ecuadorian people does not owe all the money
that the World Bank claims we owe them.
And he formed a commission to investigate that.
And the commission came to the conclusion that,
I can't even remember the number as long,
I think it was around $10 billion.
$10 billion, Ecuador owes America.
Well, they owed more than that.
But I think, and again, I'm not sure the numbers here.
I didn't look before I came in here.
But a large amount of money that Korea said were not paying,
that the commission said the people of Ecuador do not owe
because these loans were undertaken during the military junta
who ran the country back in the 70s
when John Perkins was an economic hit man.
And the military junta was put into control by the CIA
and kept there by the CIA.
And they took the money,
the Ecuadorian people never had a say in it.
They were not elected,
there were three people around the country,
none of them have been elected.
And so Korea said, we're not paying that debt.
And they used your book?
No, no, no, no.
This was before I wrote the book that they came in.
Actually, it wasn't before I wrote the book.
Before they formed the commission.
It wasn't before I wrote the book.
And Korea endorsed the next book.
Maybe that did have an influence on the money.
On the commission.
It may have, I don't know.
But in any case,
so Korea says, you know, he said, my people don't owe this money.
The military guys who took the loan owed the money,
but they're all in Miami or Sweden, Switzerland,
or some place now, they've left, we can't get at them.
The World Bank probably owes the money
because they never should have given a loan to us
for these things.
They should have known better as a good banker.
And maybe John Perkins owes the money
because he put the deal together.
Korea says this with total tongue and cheek
and refused to pay the loan.
So immediately, Standard and Poor's and Fitch
and other rating agencies crashed Ecuador's credit standing.
So Ecuador became a pariah in the financial world.
They couldn't borrow any more money.
They were in Schittsville
because they didn't pay, because they refused to pay their debts.
Well, most of these countries couldn't pay their debts anyways.
Yeah, but they said we're not going to pay.
Well, they could pay with oil.
They could pay with resources.
They could pay with resources,
but Korea said we're not going to do that.
Was there other ways they could pay?
Basically, there was it.
Just resources, that's all the matter.
And well, and also, you know,
letting us build a military base,
which we did in Ecuador, a big one before Korea.
So let us have a military presence there.
Yeah, they're all, these trade-offs, you know, yeah.
And sell some of your publicly owned government businesses
to U.S. investors or vote with us
in the next United Nations vote against Cuba,
these kinds of things.
Right, vote with us.
Yeah, so Korea is-
They were just giving us the middle finger, though.
We didn't like that.
No, exactly.
And the rating agencies downgraded them to junk credit rating.
So China steps in and China says,
well, we'll help you out.
And they give Ecuador a loan for a billion dollars
with very good terms,
which Ecuador immediately started paying off.
So their credit rating goes up.
Then China gives them a second loan for another billion dollars.
And now Korea is buying into China.
And China's coming in and offering to build a hydroelectric plant,
which they built a huge hydroelectric plant.
And now they're building big mines.
They're interested in copper, cobalt, and gold,
which are all necessary for the high tech industries.
They're building huge projects in Ecuador.
They're doing this all over Latin America and in Africa.
In Mexico.
All over Latin America and in Africa.
They are the number one investor in trading
in many of the countries in these two continents.
They've really taken over.
So how is their deal sweeter than ours?
A couple of ways.
So the sweeter or peers to be sweeter.
Remember, perception controls reality, right?
So one of the things is that they claim
that they will not try to influence these governments in any way.
They won't try to get them to vote with them in the United Nations.
They do actually, but they do it a little bit more subtle way
and they claim that they don't do it.
They won't try to influence whether they have a democracy
or a dictatorship, which they don't.
They stay out of that pretty much.
They don't tell the country,
they don't go in and do the studies and say here, like I did,
invest this money in power systems or whatever.
They go to the country and say,
what do you want to invest it in?
They go to the leaders of the countries and say,
what do you want to invest it in?
We'll give you the money.
What do you want to use it for?
Then we'll help you build the project.
So they sweeten the deal that way.
That's a perception thing.
They saw what we were doing wrong.
And they thought they fixed it.
They invited me to teach at an MBA program
in Shanghai a few years back.
Who's they?
China.
The government?
Well, no, it's an MBA program.
It's a university.
Okay.
So basically the government?
Well, there's a connection, I guess.
Yeah, a small one maybe.
But as soon as I got there,
what I realized what the students wanted from me
was these are students that mostly were Chinese or some foreigners,
but most of them had been singled out to be the future leaders of China,
the brightest.
And so what they wanted to learn from me
is how to be a good economic hitman.
What were the mistakes I made
and what were the successes I had?
And I very quickly cut the idea
that I wasn't there to teach them anything
about classical economics.
I was there to teach them about being an economic hitman.
They were picking my brains,
where you were going on riverboat rides,
down the river outside Shanghai,
because of through Shanghai and so on and so forth.
And it was a lot of fun.
But I really get the message.
But now one of the other things
that they really have to sell to the world
is the fact that they had economic growth
of around 10% a year for almost 30 years.
They experienced that when they came out.
China.
Yeah, China.
And they brought over 800 million people out of poverty.
That's more than all of Latin America.
They brought them out of poverty.
They created a middle class.
During that same period,
our middle class in the United States
shrank from 60% of the population to 50%.
And you know that we have not had a real increase
in the federal minimum wage since 1973 or 74.
In fact, it's lower today than it was in 2017.
In relation to inflation.
In relation to inflation.
The real, yeah, the real wage.
The federal minimum wage is less than eight dollars now.
Who can live on that?
That's the federal.
A lot of states have much higher rates.
But that's the federal.
And so China goes in and they say,
hey, look, you're the leader of this country.
It's a poor country.
We want to help you get out of poverty.
Same statements I made.
But would you rather have the American system
that's really been a failure for its people
and look at the government of the United States today.
It's dysfunctional.
They can't even decide on a budget
for more than three or four months at a time.
Congress is dysfunctional.
Look at the politics right now.
I mean, I'm sure China is making a lot of hay with.
And they say, and they haven't increased
their real minimum wage since the 70s.
And we, look at what we've done.
Look at the, we just brought our country
out of the terrible time of the Mao,
the Cultural Revolution.
And we've, we've become one of the strongest economies
in the world in less than three decades.
So Mr. President of Ecuador or Peru or whoever you are,
which system do you think you'd prefer to have
for your country?
Ours or theirs?
It's a big selling point.
And on top of that, what they say,
they really want to invest in
is building this new Silk Road.
The Belt Road.
The Belt Road Initiative.
And so that, so we would go to a country like Peru and say,
hey, if you, if you buy into our system,
you'll have most favored nation trading agreement
with the United States.
We build a bridge between you, Peru and the United States
or you and Ecuador and the United States,
you and Chile in the United States.
China goes in and says, we want to build not just a connection
between China and your country.
We want to help you build connections
with all the countries around you and around the world.
So here in Peru, we're going to help you build a deep water
port that you can trade with Africa.
We don't, we're not just interested in building a bridge
between China and Peru.
We're helping you build, become part of the new Silk Road.
It's, it's an amazing concept.
When I was in China teaching at this program,
I kept thinking.
But China also happens to own all these other ports
around the world that they're trading with,
like in Africa and everywhere else,
like the, the, their Belt Road initiatives everywhere.
They're building ports, military bases, airports, roads.
Not, not many military bases.
Well, I mean, the place, a lot of the airports
and I mean, they're building like train, train platforms
and road, tons of roads, especially in Africa.
From what would I understand an embassies,
a lot of these locations that they're building
can be very easily converted into military bases.
Exactly. Exactly.
They're, they're doing it.
And Panama, they own two huge container ports
on each, one on each side of the canal.
I mean, they, they, they control a lot of the transportation.
They don't control the canal per se.
And let's remember our military is very close to canal.
We've got ships right off the, right off the coast.
But they do have the, they control a lot of the commerce
that goes through the canal.
I mean, they, they have, they have done a brilliant job,
if you want to call it that extremely effective job
of imposing their own form of imperialism on the world
and, and pushing the United States aside.
At the same time, the United States get very bogged down
in Afghanistan, in Iraq and now in, in, in Ukraine and, in Israel.
And China stayed away from all of that.
While we were spending fortunes in that, in the Middle East,
they were investing heavily in Africa and Latin America.
And staying out of the military thing.
Right.
Completely.
As you say, a lot of the so that could be converted,
but they're not military facilities.
And nobody wants a military facility on their soil,
rather from another country, you know.
We didn't like it when the British had theirs here
back in the 1700s.
No, no self-respecting Ecuadorian or, or Kenyan
wants a foreign military base on their soil.
Right, right, true.
And they're also, and China, I'm, I've talked to guys on here,
journalists that report a lot on Mexico and like the cartels
that are going on and what, like what the cartels are doing
with the wars, the cartel wars in Mexico and stuff like that
and trafficking and, and there is a heavy, heavy Chinese influence
in Mexico working directly with the cartels.
In fact, they're sending chemists to, to Sinaloa, Mexico,
to train them how to produce fentanyl
that's getting trafficked into the United States.
And, and they're also, they're, they have mines,
lithium mines all over Mexico, where they're actually,
the Chinese are, they own the lithium mines
and they're mining the lithium, but they're using the cartels
as security, like they're literally hiring them,
working with them to secure those, those mines
where they're digging up all the stuff for batteries
and stuff they're selling to us or whatever it is.
Yeah. It's in Ecuador, they've got huge mine,
they're building that, and, and some of them
are very poorly constructed.
I mean, they do some lousy construction work
and they built this huge hydroelectric plant in Ecuador
that was supposed to provide something between a third
and a half of the country's electricity,
has eight big generating units that it was built
out in the very sensitive area of the Amazon.
And very ecologically sensitive.
And it was built on, on a fault line
near an active volcano, Reventador.
Oh, wow.
And it's, as far as I know, at least as,
as of a year or so ago, it never, all eight units
had never operated and that the generate,
the generating house that were their generators are kept
was riddled with cracks and very poor construction.
And I think they're, I think they're working on improving that,
but they've, they've, they've done some very
sketchy construction around Africa and Latin America.
Isn't it true that a lot of the exploitative
work that's going on in the Amazon,
like the logging and the mining
and the even leveling parts of the rainforest
to turn them into cattle farms, that's all China?
Yeah, I can't speak specifically on some of those issues,
but certainly I know that that's,
that China's has a huge influence in all those areas.
Yeah.
And the mining particularly where they really want to control
the world's lithium and cobalt and the other rare minerals
that are necessary for microchips and other high tech,
high technology.
Yeah.
So how are we going to respond to that?
How, how is the U.S. responding to that?
Now that China has basically figured out our,
our flaws in this way of strong arming other countries
to gain their resources.
What, what's the next move?
I can't answer that.
I'm really, I'm really concerned, Danny.
I think that, you know, the United States right now
is so screwed up, you know, let's face it.
I mean, we've got, we've got this.
Is it really screwed up?
Is it really, really more screwed up now than ever?
Or has it always been like this?
And it's just always the next news cycle
that's making us feel like it's worse than it's ever been,
from your perspective?
Well, I think it's more screwed up than it has been
in my lifetime in terms of, of how it,
how it in unison relates to the outside world.
Now, you know, I would say that going into Vietnam
was a terribly screwed up policy,
but it had the support at the beginning,
at least between both Democrats and Republicans.
And most of the people at the beginning,
that changed over time,
particularly as the draft became stronger and stronger.
Kennedy didn't want it.
Well, yeah, we don't think Kennedy wanted it,
look what happened to him.
Exactly.
So I think we had a much more unified view of the world,
and we supported NATO and, and rightly along,
I mean, you can look at all those things
as being screwed up too.
But when I say it's screwed up now,
it's like the world looks at us and say,
the United States can't make any decisions,
and we can't trust them.
When Trump takes over power,
he negates a lot of the agreements
that were signed with previous administrations.
And Biden comes in,
and he tries to reinstate some of those,
and now Trump can.
So there's this constant flux,
and the world doesn't trust us as they used to.
And they may, when I say trust,
they may have hated us,
but they could see a consistent policy,
and many of their leaders were in cahoots with us,
even if a lot of the people weren't.
So I think we're in a situation,
and let's face it,
the world is just a lot more dangerous now.
We do have, we have climate change.
We have horrible hurricanes.
So, you know, Florida is under...
Hurricane.
We have hurricanes all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah, every year.
Yeah, but it's getting worse.
It's not getting worse.
It's the same.
Well, not according to the statistics,
but there's more stronger ones more frequently now.
Really?
Yeah.
I feel like it's always with the same one.
They're expecting 27 this year, I think.
What?
Yeah, look it up.
There's one coming right now, right in the Atlantic.
I know.
I'm in a hurry to get out of here.
It's all yet.
You got until Friday.
You got time.
Yeah.
I look forward to the hurricanes,
because I get to surf.
Yeah.
Oh, that's a good point.
Yeah, I mean, I lived in Florida for 30 years,
and lived through a few pretty bad hurricanes.
We chase the hurricanes.
We find out where they're going
and figure out the best place to catch the waves.
You know what they say about people like that?
Yeah, I'm not right in the head.
Nihilists?
No, but in any case, I think that we are in a very difficult position
as vis-a-vis the Chinese right now.
We've made it easy for the Chinese
to sell their marketing tools.
And I don't like that.
I mean, I'm very disturbed by that fact.
You know, another thing that's come in.
They're marketing tools.
What do you mean by that?
What I described before,
that they've had economic growth of 10% a year for 30 years.
They brought 800 million people out of poverty.
And that's a good selling proof.
It's a good perception to present to the world
that they are on the march.
Now, I think she in the last, since the pandemic,
he's gotten into a lot of trouble.
I think he's made some big mistakes.
So, like what?
Well, you know, closing down China the way he did is,
the economy has never recovered from that.
And he's become more dictatorial.
You know, he's now like Mao was in a way,
the in-for-life kind of thing.
He just got himself reelected, you know, elected,
if you want to call it that.
I think he's made some big mistakes.
And I think that the door is open now
if the United States wanted to go in
and take advantage of those mistakes.
My concern is I'm not sure that we're in a position
where we're united enough or have enough willpower
and commitment to spend the money to make that happen.
Yeah, it's always made me think,
like the whole election cycle thing,
it seems counterintuitive because it's like,
yeah, that's good for democracy that we have eight years,
eight years maximum term, four years minimum term
for a president, but so much of that time
is dedicated to getting reelected and the campaigns
and really nothing ever gets done.
Well, basically people in the House of Representatives
were in there for two years,
they spent their two years trying to get reelected.
Yeah, exactly.
And you think of the money that's spent.
And it's just presidential campaign already.
And we're not even through it yet.
Spent hundreds of millions, amazing amounts of money.
In democracy, I'm not sure about that,
where corporations have so much power
to influence politicians.
It's incredible.
Basically, we've legalized corruption in the United States.
So it's legal to own politicians,
essentially own them through campaign financing
and offering them very lucrative jobs
when they get out of politics as consultants
or lawyers or lobbyists.
We corrupt politicians, but we do it legally.
And it's just, it's on and on.
Isn't your Rockefeller's the one who started that?
Started what?
Lobbying.
I don't know.
I thought I heard you say that in the podcast.
What I did say, what you may be thinking of is John...
So after the United States became a country,
one of the early things that the Congress did
was to make sure that we wouldn't be in a position
that we'd been in with the East India Company,
you know, that controls,
so that really a lot of the Revolutionary War
was implemented against a huge corporation,
which was tied in closely with the royal family of England.
And with the Boston Tea Party,
you know, it was the most famous example
of coming up against that company,
but that was a huge problem.
And so Congress decided that no corporation
could get a charter to be incorporated
unless it proved that it was going to serve a public interest,
such as building highways or bridges.
And the corporate charter only lasted for 10 years.
After 10 years, they had to go back and demonstrate
that they had in fact served a public interest
and would continue to do so.
And no corporation could buy another corporation
or sell itself to another corporation.
And that law stayed in effect for about 100 years.
And then John D. Rockefeller went to both the states
of Delaware and New Jersey.
I can't remember doing it at first.
I think it was Delaware.
And he said, I'm building an oil company.
You guys have got oil on your land.
And an oil company can't be held back by just 10 years.
We're a long term.
You've got to change.
You've got to give me a charter that lasts much longer
than 10 years.
And you've got to allow me to buy
other smaller oil companies that aren't doing so well
so I can buy their equipment
and I can expand this oil industry.
And if you do that, I'll pay good taxes
in Delaware and New Jersey.
You representatives can give yourself a better salary.
And so it turned around and that turned everything around.
So that law that had been standing for about 100 years
suddenly went down the tubes.
And we've just gotten worse and worse and worse
with Citizens United and so many other laws
that give corporations so much power.
The rights of an individual
but not the responsibilities of an individual.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wonder what other countries think about us
when they see what's going on with the election mania
and the circus show that's going on.
Well, my friends in Latin America
and I've spent seven weeks there this year
so far and I'm going back again in August
even before this last debate.
But they were like, you know,
the United States is the biggest banana
of the public in the world.
But you don't have any bananas.
That's hilarious.
Yeah.
Well, it's hilarious and it's sad.
It is sad.
It's very sad.
As an American who's family fought in the revolution
and every war since, except the one in Afghanistan and Iraq,
I'm really sad by what's going on.
And we've got Russia reemerging
and we've got China taking over in so many respects
and the two of them having alliances with each other
and bringing in Iran and North Korea.
It's very disturbing.
What do you make of the whole Ukraine-Russia conflict,
everything that's come out with all the corruption going on
in Ukraine and the government ties?
I know Biden was doing lots of business
and Hunter Biden was doing lots of business with companies
and Ukraine's just been the middle of this tug of war
between Russia and the U.S. forever.
Yeah, I don't have any such information.
I hate to speculate on things I don't have experience.
I will say that I was speaking at a conference
in St. Petersburg, Russia.
I was shared the stage with Putin back in 2017
at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
And I was really impressed with Putin.
He made some very good points.
He said, let's face it, all the countries of the world,
we need to come together to stop climate change
and to deal with the nuclear proliferation problem
and income inequality around the world.
I said, those are the big issues.
We need to come together and he was convincing.
But I'm also, and I hear what you're saying.
I think we insulted him.
I think we missed some opportunities
to bring Russia into NATO that he made overtures.
He wanted to join NATO.
I know, I know, I know.
I think we made some big mistakes.
That's a water under the dam.
But he was also the only reason NATO existed.
That was the selling point for NATO was him.
Exactly, and at that same conference, he says,
you know, NATO was formed to combat the Warsaw Pact.
He says, there is no Warsaw Pact anymore.
Why do we need a NATO?
But I'm also concerned that I think something's,
you know, he obviously was extremely aggravated
and probably he was driven to that
to a large degree by our policies.
And yet I think at this point, I'm very concerned
that if he takes over Ukraine, he won't stop there.
Really?
That he'll move into other parts of the world.
You know, he's clearly stated
that he thinks one of the biggest mistakes
was the ending of the Soviet Union.
So I don't know.
Like I said, I don't have any inside information.
I've never worked in Russia or Ukraine
or any other part of the world.
So it's pure speculation on my part.
I don't like to speculate.
But I think what we all have to be terribly concerned with
is how potentially explosive that situation is.
And we can say the same thing about Israel and Gaza
and Hamas and Hezbollah.
Yeah.
We're dealing with some extremely volatile situations
right now in the world.
Yeah.
And there's also the influence of other countries
in our country too.
Like when you talk about lobbying,
you talk about the Israel lobby.
John Mearsheimer talks a lot about the Israel lobby
and how much influence they have over all politicians.
And there was a guy who just did it.
I forget his name, Congressman.
I forget which state he was from.
But he just did an interview, I think, with Tucker Carlson.
And he was talking about APAC
and their influence on the Congressman.
And basically they all have like APAC handlers.
And I think Trump actually just got a $100 million donation
from the Adelson.
Adelson, Merriam Adelson.
Right.
How many countries have that much influence
in their government from other countries?
Right?
Like how many other countries have their political system
completely corrupted by a completely separate country
that uses them to their advantage?
Well, that's colonialism, isn't it?
Yeah.
And of course, at the same time,
we've got all the problems with social media
influenced from Russia, China.
And we're probably doing the same thing in those countries,
I don't know.
Probably.
But it's...
I always wonder how much shit that we see,
how much shit like either the presidential election,
whether it be them doing this whole
dog and pony show with Trump dragging him
through this crazy trial.
Or whether it be with the COVID stuff
or anything you see in the news.
How much of it is just an intentional distraction
for the people in power to keep their power?
And just to keep the people dumb
and to keep the people distracted by nonsense
so they can keep their agenda or even the UFO stuff, right?
Yeah.
Like how much of this stuff is just intentional distractions?
I'm reminded of that movie Gladiator.
Remember the movie Gladiator?
Was that before your time?
No, I remember Gladiator.
The Brussels crowd.
And I remember at one point these senators are,
and I'm paraphrasing here,
but the senators that are sitting around basically saying,
aren't the gladiatorial events a great distraction
from what we're really doing?
You know, and I think there's an awful lot to be said for that.
I think colonial powers have always distracted their citizens
from what they're really doing with high flying concepts.
We're fighting the communists.
We're doing this and oh, just watch the next football game
and enjoy it.
No, don't think about these things.
So yeah, there's incredible distractions going on.
And some of it's very much in the public arena
and the political arena.
And but there's all kinds of ways to get us to not think
about what we're really doing.
Yeah, and so many things are coming to light too
that just show like all the lies that are happening.
Like even with the recent,
do you see what happened with Fauci just recently
when he had to go up in front of Congress and get questioned?
And they basically found out,
they got the audio recordings of the phone calls.
Fauci is basically, they had a phone call with him.
I forget exactly what he said,
but he said something like,
they won't be able to get a job without their vaccinations.
No vaccinations, no jobs.
They're going to be forced to do it.
I don't give a fuck.
Like something along those lines.
And he denied ever saying that.
Yeah, I guess I didn't hear that.
But yeah, but so you think that was,
is the supposition here that it was dubbed?
That he didn't actually say it?
No, he didn't.
So he definitely said it.
I mean, his claim was that that wasn't his intention.
He didn't, what he actually said is not what he actually meant.
Right.
But I mean, that does raise another point
that, you know, we could probably get a recording
of you sitting there saying,
ah, I'm an agent of the Chinese government, right?
No, I don't think I've ever said that.
No, no, but with modern technology, we can dub it.
Oh, you're saying AI could do it.
Yes, AI can say it.
Sure, but Fauci admitted he said it.
Yeah, I don't know about Fauci,
but I mean, that is another thing that concerns us.
For sure.
Yeah, deep fakes, AI, that kind of stuff.
Turn off these cameras.
I don't want to be in this position.
Yeah, the deep fakes.
Yeah, the deep fakes are, AI is crazy, man.
How is AI going to change everything?
You know, and with the problems,
like the modern problems that we have in society today,
like we think about war, conflict, climate change,
whatever it may be, is all that going to matter
once we hit the singularity?
Once we hit the singularity,
the AI is going to figure out
how to keep the planet sustainable.
Let's hope so.
If you know, it is going to be,
another huge problem is going to be when AI figures out
how to get, how to make people live longer
and to make people live hundreds of years,
and then all of a sudden our population booms.
We've already got that problem.
Social security is having a hard time.
We've got that problem now.
We live too long.
I'm about to turn 80.
So I don't want to say that.
Wow, you look great, man.
I don't want to say that.
I'm in great shape.
Yeah, you are.
Yeah, you want to go around a few rounds?
It's all, no, I don't want to go around
a few rounds with you, man.
You've been spending a lot of time
in the Amazon, Central America.
I practice martial arts most of my life,
and it stays with you.
You know, you can stay in shape.
Everybody out there, if you're,
get into shape, stay in shape,
because it really does make a huge difference.
I don't think I told you about the time I was poisoned.
No.
But there's an interesting story about-
Is this when you were writing your book?
Yeah, the interesting story about being in shape.
I wanted to ask you about that, too.
I brought that up because it's about the being in shape thing.
Okay.
What happened when you decided to write this book,
and how did you go about writing the book?
Yeah, so initially, after I got out of the business,
I started writing a book that I wanted to be an expose that I wanted to interview
other people that had jobs like mine and the jackals,
because I know quite a few of them.
And I started contacting them,
and almost immediately I got anonymous phone calls threatening my life
and that of my infant daughter, who's now in her 40s,
but yeah, she was an infant.
And I was terrified because I knew what these people can do.
I'd seen it.
And at that time, I had just left the job at Joste, Maine,
and I got invited out to lunch by the president of Stoneman Webster Engineering Company,
huge engineering company, also out of Boston.
And he takes me out to lunch, and he says,
you know, you have a great resume.
You're a chief economist at one of our rival companies.
And I want to use your resume and our proposals.
I want to have the opportunity to do that.
You don't have to do much work for us.
Maybe I'll ask you to fly a private jet down to Rio de Janeiro once in a while,
have dinner with some people or something,
but you don't have to do much.
Just let me use your resume.
And I'm prepared to write you a check tomorrow morning for $500,000,
half a million dollars, as a consultant's retainer.
Now, this is in the late 80s.
Half a million is nothing to sneeze at today,
but it was a lot more back then.
Oh yeah, it's a lot dribble probably.
So, and then he says, just don't write the book that I know you've been working on.
So, I'm getting exactly what I had dished out to presidents and others.
I'm getting, okay, in this hand, I've got half a million dollars for you.
You don't have to do much to me, just here it is.
Oh, and we're also going to pay you a monthly fee.
In this hand, the Jack was been calling me,
threatening my life and that of my daughter,
getting exactly what I'd been dishing out.
And I know this.
What do I do?
What would you do?
What would you do, Danny?
What would you do?
Yeah, take the money and run.
Yeah, so I did.
I took the money and, you know, in my own defense,
I'll say I didn't go out and buy fancy cars or a big house or something.
I reinvested into going back to the Amazon and offering and forming a nonprofit called
Dream Change to help the people of the Amazon,
protect the forest where I had lived and has such a huge impact on me.
And I started writing books about them.
So I wrote five books on shamanism and indigenous people.
Stone and Webster was fine with me doing that.
In fact, they were happy that I'm writing books about things,
get my name out there more and associated with them.
But I didn't write the book that they told me not to write.
And then many years later, my contract with Stone and Webster is over.
New presidents come into Stone and Webster who knew me and didn't like me at all,
didn't want me around.
We had a history.
And so I'm in the Amazon with a group of people on 9-11.
And when we, when I get home, I was living in Florida at the time,
I flew up to New York to ground zero.
And as I stood there looking down into that pit,
I knew I had to write about what I had done,
which doesn't say there's a direct connection,
but it just, it just struck me that I needed to write about what I'd done.
But I made the commitment at that point that I wouldn't contact other people.
I would write, I wouldn't write an expose.
I would write a confession, my personal story.
And I wouldn't let anybody know I was doing it,
because what got me into trouble before is I started contacting people.
So, you know, if you're going to be a whistleblower,
don't warn people you're going to blow the whistle.
Blow the whistle and make sure you get all your ducks lined up.
And so I did that.
I wrote the book and it was interesting that it was, it was rejected.
It was rejected by 39 publishers.
30, I get 39 rejection letters.
That takes a lot of touching, a lot of jaguars.
And then one publisher bought it and it went to the New York Times bestseller
very quickly and stayed there for like 70, some odd weeks.
Now, weren't you worried about getting whacked?
No, but at that point, I figured it's my best insurance policy.
Even once I got it in the hands of...
Getting it published, you mean?
Yeah, but even getting it in the hands,
before it got published, even when it was being rejected, it's out there.
There's no stopping it now.
And if somebody, something strange happens to me,
it's going to sell a lot more books, you know?
Shoot me now and see how many books it sells.
Right.
And so, so now I figured that was my best insurance policy.
And I think I was right, except a few months after the book was published
at the end of 2004, in early 2005, I was invited to speak at the United Nations.
And I fly up to New York from Florida.
And before, I'm doing a lot of interviews, a lot of interviews.
And I have a publicist who works for the publishing company.
And this is one guy who wants to interview me,
but he doesn't have very good credentials, so we've been putting him off.
But finally, my publicist calls me and she says,
you know, he's offered to pick you up at LaGuardia
and drive you to where you're going to stay tonight,
which is a friend's house, an old friend on Central Park.
And he'll take you out to lunch.
That'd probably be better than taking a cab.
Why don't you do it?
So I did it.
And we go to this restaurant, Italian restaurant,
and I order it and the meal comes and I go to the restroom
and eat the meal.
And this guy was lame.
You know, he was just a terrible journalist.
He'd ask stupid questions.
Not like you.
Oh, thank you.
And a couple of hours later, I'm in my friend's apartment
and I lost over half the blood of my body through internal bleeding.
Just gushed out at me.
And my friend happened to be a producer at Tom Brokaw's NBC Nightly News.
And she had a good friend who was a very well-known gastroenterologist,
Pavarotti's gastroenterologist, calls him around seven o'clock at night at home.
And I get on the phone and I'm shaking.
I've gone into shock.
And he says, you've got to get to Lenox Hill Hospital.
Don't call an ambulance.
Take a cab.
The ambulance is too slow.
I'll call ahead and get intravenous set up for you.
And you'll be dead in two hours.
So I go to this hospital and to make a long story short, they ended up taking out 70%
of my large intestine, cutting it out.
And we never thought much about it at the time.
You know, I was just trying to survive.
And as soon as that happened and the word got out and I obviously had to cancel the talk
at the United Nations, my publicist did and sent word out to everybody that I had these
interviews set up with.
You know, I can't come.
He just had and people kept pouring in with email and phone calls saying,
don't you realize John was poisoned?
Never had occurred.
And well, I wasn't thinking.
You know, I'm suffering.
I wasn't thinking.
So I asked my gastroenterologist and he says, well, it's possible,
but we can't prove one way or another because as soon as we take something like that out,
we incinerate it.
Oh, no.
So the evidence has incinerated, but that guy disappeared.
All my publicist had was his email address and there was no response anymore.
He basically disappeared.
It wasn't any point in pursuing him because they had no evidence anyway.
You never could get ahold of him.
Nothing like that.
So that's pretty much in itself.
That's proof though.
It sounds pretty suspicious.
And then I call on, still in the hospital, I call this friend of mine who was a jackal.
Who's been in this business.
And I said, hey, do you think that, what do you think?
And he said, well, yeah, I think it's, it probably was an assassination attempt.
And I said, who do you think did it?
And he said, well, definitely not the alphabet agencies, FBI, CIA.
Not them.
Not them.
He said, if it had been them, you wouldn't be talking to me.
And besides that, they don't want to see you dead because that's going to sell books.
It's something, it's, if you, if you die from it, it's already, it was true.
Already book sales have gone, spiked again.
He said, they, you know, they're not too worried about books.
You know, it's just the book is out there.
It's out there.
Killing you is not going to stop the book from being out there.
Right.
The book's already done.
The book's done.
It's out there.
And, and he said, so, and I said, well, who then?
And he said, well, I think it was my guess is that it was a fanatic who either hates what
you did as an economic hit man or hates the fact that you came clean on it.
And I said, well, do you think I need to worry about him coming back?
And he said, no, I don't think he'll show his face again.
You know who he is now.
And he's scared.
He's, these guys are cowards.
He did a cowardly thing and he probably feels that he's scared the shit out of you.
And he doesn't, he's not going to show up.
So he said, I don't think you need to be, maybe there's others out there.
But he said, you know, you can't spend your life being worried about such things.
So, so, but it was a, you know, it was an interesting experience.
Oh, how I got into this.
I said physical, you know, so my, my doctor said, you know, one of the reasons you came
through this so well and, and, you know, I'm well now is, is that you were in really good
shape and that, that served you well.
Your heart was strong.
Your body was, you know, how old were you?
So this is, this was 19, this was 2005.
I was born in 45.
So I was 60.
Oh, wow.
Is that right?
I think so.
Roughly.
I'm not the guy to ask.
But I'm an economist, you know, economists can't do math.
Right.
We assume, we assume 45, 55, 65, 75, 85, 05, 50 years.
Yeah, 50.
Wow.
No.
How did you know these jackals and who were these jackals?
I wasn't 50, I was 60.
Okay.
I was 60.
Well, this particular jackal, this is a funny story too.
So I was, I practiced martial arts and, and I was, what, what, what, what's kind of
martial arts?
Well, my degrees are in Taekwondo.
Oh, okay.
But, but my instructor who was Korean, up in North Palm Beach area,
you know, we, we did a little of everything.
We did a lot of street stuff too.
Okay.
And, and, and I'd gone on before that.
And then in case one, one day this guy comes in and says he'd like to join the school.
He's a black belt and, and my surgeon says, okay, so we'll put in a uniform.
Let's see how you do.
So he gets out there.
And then at the end, at the other class for the last 10 minutes or so, we, we, we usually
did sparring, which is called low contact sparring without heavy gear.
Just, you don't, you only tap somebody with your, you know, you, you know,
black belts have to learn that discipline.
And I'm the senior black belt in the school at this point.
And I line up opposite this guy and we, we start to go at it.
And I get in a little bit of a hit and he just comes at me like gang busters.
And I know at this point, I'm not going to hit this guy.
I'm going to go, I'm defensive.
I, this guy's, I don't, I'm scared of him.
And anyway, after that, but I, but I hung in there, you know, we had a good,
he felt a little about it and he joined the school.
And then we got to hanging out together and going out to lunch afterwards.
I used to practice in that late morning, but, and so did he.
And we got into this conversation about the Seychelles and the Indian Ocean.
And, and he had been part of a team that went in from South Africa to assassinate the,
the leader of the Seychelles.
Really?
Yes.
Francois, I can't think of his last name, you know.
That's right off the coast of Madagascar, right?
Yes, right in that area.
And so a squad had come out of South Africa that he had been on.
So he'd been, he was, he was, what was he working for?
Well, he, private firm.
He was, he was a mercenary.
CIA?
No.
Well, the CIA may have, may very well have had something to do with that.
But he didn't directly work for the CIA.
He, he worked for a guy named Jack Hoar, who's, who's been,
movies made up and who was very well known mercenary in Africa.
Anyway, and I had been recruited.
I had been actually at one point ready to go into Seychelles and try to corrupt this president.
And we decided he couldn't be corrupted.
So they sent in a team to take him out, but they, they failed.
And anyway, so, so we get into this conversation at lunch about the Seychelles.
And I realized, oh yeah, I know who you are.
And, and he knew that I knew who he was and, and, and we became friends.
So, so when this thing happened and I'm in the hospital, he's, he lives in Florida.
And I call in and we have this conversation.
You know, the guy, you know, despite his, his career was a really good friend.
And, and very compassionate.
You know, when, when I was, when I was recuperating, he made sure he'd come by and
make sure I got up on my feet and walked like I was supposed to and get all the exercises.
Yeah, you know, that's interesting, man.
And he had a belief system.
He grew up in Beirut.
He was an American citizen.
His dad was an executive with Middle East Airlines.
And he grew up in Beirut and he'd been beaten up by the PLO when he was about 18 years old.
And, and went through a lot of shit with the PLO.
And so he hated, uh, communists and he hated, uh, you know, he was, he was, he was, he was
rather a racist too.
And so he went to South Africa and trained with the SAS in South Africa, very, very elite
force area.
And then, and, and in Zimbabwe and Zimbabwe and South Africa, both of those countries,
he was very involved in some of the fighting there and had this exclusive training and
was really excelled at what he did.
An expert marksman, a demolish, uh, explosives expert.
He, he, he knew the stuff.
Plus a damn good martial artist.
Yeah.
And he said that if it was, if it was CI effort, it was the U.S.
They would have succeeded.
They would not have failed.
They wanted the alphabet industry and then said they'd have no motive.
They don't want, they don't want you to be more famous than you are.
And if you get, if they, you know, and this, this did
sell a lot of books.
The fact that I was in the hospital.
It did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And even today, you know, if they do, how much, how much influence or how much
fuckery do you think happens inside the United States from these three letter agencies?
How much influence do you think they have on like the media or like on domestic politics?
I think they have a lot.
A lot.
And I think it's not always clear who has it.
So these agencies are massive, you know, and there's empires within the empire, so to speak.
Yeah.
Well, the U.S. government's the biggest organization, company, whatever you want to
call it in the history of the world.
Yeah.
There's like millions of employees.
Yeah.
So it's really hard to, to, it's really hard to paint them with a broad brush.
Yeah.
And, and all those, I mean, sometimes I think there's, they're competing with each other,
some of the agencies within the agency or the departments within the agency.
So, you know, I think, you know, some of them may be, you know, fighting the DEA,
as we talked earlier, in the Mexico situations, and some of them may be supporting the DEA.
I think it's a very complex issue.
And I don't know, I don't know that anybody knows.
And you think about who's the director of the CIA?
Who's the director of any of these agencies?
They're mostly appointed by presidents.
And so, you know, you're president, you appoint me as head of the CIA, other career deputies,
and other top people, and they're going to share their most important secrets with me?
Hell no.
They don't know me from a hole in the ground.
Right.
You know, I may have passed security tests and so on,
but they don't trust me, and they know I'm only going to be there for a few years,
and the next president's probably going to replace me with somebody else.
So, why would they share their information?
So, I have, I have some control over some of the general policies,
but as to what really goes on, you know, I don't, the director of the CIA doesn't know.
I believe.
And again, this is supposition on my part.
Hmm. Yeah, it seems that, you know, the media and the control of information in the U.S.
is very much of that, is very much under control, and it's very much like,
just like the congressmen are, the media is very much corrupted by organizations,
don't know what the names of those organizations are, and advertising dollars.
Oh, huge, huge, you know.
That really showed its ugly face during the COVID pandemic.
I have a, the guy followed me around for several days,
after confessions, came out in New York Times reporter,
who ended up writing a major article about the book.
And we were, he followed me around in Chicago, giving a bunch of talks at different institutions
in Chicago. And he spoke fluent Spanish and spent a lot of time in Latin America, as do I.
And I said to him, you know, how come you're not really writing the truth about so much of what's
going on in Latin America? You know damn well that the policies that we're saying in some of the
countries that we're labeling as dangerous and so on and so forth. Why don't you write about
these things? And he says, well, John, you know, he says that the New York Times prides itself on
not censoring its writers. I'm not told, I'm not told what I can't write. I can write anything I
want. But my editor has discretion as to what he publishes. And he is under the influence of the
publisher, who is under the influence of all of our advertisers. So, you know, I've got to be
very careful that I don't write something that's going to piss off the publisher or some of the
advertisers. So, and he says, you know, if I don't publish periodically, if my editor doesn't
accept my articles, then I'm going to lose my job. So he says, you know, theoretically, you know.
Yeah. Well, I had a guy on here, Jack Murphy, who's a former ranger. He got out of the military
and he decided to be a journalism and write on some of the stuff that's happening, like within
the military and the wars and stuff like that. And I'm sorry for people that are listening,
because I've told this story at Nazim on this podcast. So I'm repeating this for like the 10th
time. But anyways, he was working on a big article for about a year after the Ukraine war kicked
off. And he had a bunch of sources that were former CIA, who were basically telling him that
the CIA was using a NATO spy service, a NATO ally spy service to conduct sabotage inside Russia,
like lighting ammunition, warehouses on fire, blowing up train tracks. It's like that because
the CIA wanted plausible denitability. They wanted to send their own people in there to do this stuff.
And he was working with one of these top three publishers in the U.S., working on this article
with one of the editors at one of these publications, because they wanted to publish
it through the whole process, back and forth, very open line of communication between them.
When it came time to publish the article, the editor says, okay, well, we've got to run this
by the deputy director of the CIA. They get on a three-way call with my buddy Jack, the editor at
this giant publication, and the deputy director of the CIA, three of them. And the guy at the
CIA, I forget who the deputy director was at the time. This would have been about two years ago.
He says, this is absolutely false. He goes, this is not, this is untrue. So Jack assumes,
okay, we're just going to, we're going to add a line at the end of the article saying that you've
denied any of this being true. Yet I still have dozens of sources that say it is true.
Well, no, the editor of this publication has an off-the-record agreement with the CIA,
saying if they do deny anything, it's off the record, and he cabasched the whole article.
So they have ways of doing this. That's not just blatant in your face. They can't just say, oh,
no, we're not going to, it's not like China where they're going to say, we're not publishing this
because this goes against our empire or what we're doing. They're basically saying the way the CIA
does it is, they're going to say, if you publish this stuff, A, we deny it, B, if you publish it,
you're going to put lives at risk. You're going to put our operators' lives at risk,
our military people's lives at risk. So you're going to be doing a tremendous disservice to the
country, and you're going to be responsible for innocent lives. Do with that what you will.
End up like WikiLeaks, like Julian. Yeah.
So yeah, I mean, so yeah, we have all kinds of ways of control. The most recent thing was when
Trump paid the National Enquirer or one of Trump's agents, not to publish the article,
but they'd bought from Stormy Daniels, remember that? So the publisher paid Stormy Daniels to
buy the article and then trash the article. And I mean, that's the kind of thing it was on all
the time too. Republicans, Democrats, the politicians also have a lot of power that way.
Yeah, there's many ways toward corruption. Corruption comes in many forms.
And another thing I wanted to bring up, when it comes to the economic hitman tactics that
you used when you were doing this and what's going on today, there was, and I believe you
talked about this before, but there was a country, I think it was Belarus
during the middle of the pandemic, the United States went to this country and said,
we're going to give you basically a huge loan, we're going to give you all this money for all
this stuff, but you have to implement all these lockdown policies, all these mask policies and
take all these vaccines. And the leader of this country basically said, no, this is an economic
hitman model, we're not going to follow it, where the United States tried to implement all these
rules across other countries. You remember this? I don't think I wrote that. Stephen,
no, you didn't write this, but you mentioned it before. Stephen, there was an article I sent
you. This is it right here. Belarus president unwilling to accept additional terms to get
foreign loans. This was published when June 19th of 2020. Okay. Yeah. So right after the pandemic.
I don't know, this is ever, we can Google it again and figure out who covered it.
So it basically has additional conditions, which do not apply to the financial part are
unacceptable for Belarus. Belarus president Alexander Lushenko said when speaking about
external lending during a meeting to discuss support measures for the real economic sector on
the part of the banking system, BELTA has learned, BELTA's name is publisher. Lushenko asked the
participants of the meeting how things were with the provision of foreign credit assistance to
Belarus. What are our partners' requirements for this loan? It was announced that they can provide
Belarus with $940 million in so-called rapid financing. How are things here? The head of
state inquired. At the time, he stressed that additional conditions which do not apply to
the financial part are unacceptable for the country. We hear the demands, for example,
to model our coronavirus response on that of Italy. I do not want to see the Italian situation
to repeat itself in Belarus. We have our own country with our own situation, the president said.
According to the president, the World Bank has shown interest in Belarus coronavirus response
practices. Interesting. And it is ready to fund us 10 times more than it offered initially as a
token of commendation for our efficient fight against the virus. The World Bank has even asked
the healthcare ministry to share the experience. Meanwhile, the IMF continues to demand from
us quarantine measures, isolation, and a curfew. This is nonsense, he says. We will not dance to
anyone's tune. What do you think of that? Yeah, I don't know. And who is Belta, do you know?
Belta is the name of this website. But Stephen, open up a new tab and Google,
open up a new tab on the browser and then just Google Belarus president
IMF coronavirus. Maybe that will come up with some more.
IMF, so Politico says IMF awards Belarus $1 billion to fight the coronavirus.
So it sounds like the World Bank is tied into this and they're trying to give Belarus
money to implement lockdowns for the coronavirus. Why the hell would they do that?
And it's, yeah, Belarus will get $100 billion payouts from the International Monetary Fund
to fight coronavirus pandemic, a move that has called widespread anger. IMF said it will
distribute more than $650 billion in reserves among its members as part of the so-called
special drawing rights. Wow. Yeah, interesting because Belarus is kind of in the Russian camp,
too. It is in the Russian camp. Yeah, I have no idea. It seems like these things like this,
like the coronavirus, they were just implemented for the government to grab more power,
similar to 9-11 and the Patriot Act and the TSA. All the powers and all the control the
government got from 9-11, they never let go of that. All that stuff still in, they still have all
that power. Well, it's like you, you know, like Naomi Klein, you know, shock doctrine. So when
an incident like this comes along, yeah, that people will try to grab power and she writes
about that a lot in that. Yeah. But just on another subject, I'm looking at this
painting. I don't know whether the audience can see it. Oh, yeah, everybody loves this painting.
But so it ties right into something I've been writing about and that is what if,
if there were these flying saucers, let's say, assumed there's a huge fleet of flying saucers
and we know that they're threatening to destroy us as human beings. Okay. So what does China and
Russia and the United States and all the other countries do? If there's an existential threat
to the world, hopefully we'd all band together. We could become the human race. And history tells
us that's what happens. So my theory is that the aliens are here. Okay. And are you one of them?
Yes. And so are you. We all are. That it's not human beings, but it's our philosophy that says we
are a part from nature, not a part of nature. We have the right to destroy nature. We have the
right to do whatever we want. So the indigenous people, I spent a lot of time with, they believe
they're a part of nature. And they point out that when they come here and visit our cities,
they see that we believe we're a part from nature. We're supreme over nature. And so in a way,
we have alienated ourselves from our planet intentionally as a philosophy. It isn't human
beings. It's this philosophy that says that we have to maximize short-term profits. We have to
maximize materialistic consumption. We are a part from nature. So let's get this out there
and say, hey, we're the aliens. Let's all come together and stop fighting about who's going to
occupy Ukraine or Gaza or whatever. And let's all join together to fight this philosophy that's
destroying all of us. Yeah, but isn't it okay? And I've got to say, do I think that that's realistic
that we're going to do it? No, but it's a great philosophy. It's a great story. I'm writing a
novel about it. And there it is. That would be the cover to my novel. Do you have Van Gogh's permission?
No, we don't. Nope, AI created it. Well, he's dead. So I guess you don't need it.
I think the statues of limitations are up. Well, I'm sure somebody owns the rights to all the van
ghosts off. You can't just re-creative Van Gogh and sell as a van Gogh. I don't know. We're not
selling it though. So we're just having fun. Steve, put that up there. Well, as your economic
kit man on staff here, I don't know what I would advise you. Yeah, it's interesting what you said
about us. We're becoming alien from nature. And we are, we're in this competitive world
to constantly innovate. And it's largely fueled by materialism. We always want the next greatest
iPhone. We always want the next best thing. We want the nicest car, the bigger house,
which is going to make us more attractive to mates. It's going to make us more symbolically
immortal. We're going to create things that are going to live longer than our biological bodies
can. So people can remember us and it makes us feel important. But that materialism and that
competitiveness also is responsible for innovation and for technology and for everything
that we've created. And a lot of that is good. Perception. So what's the perception driving
all of this? And the perception of maximizing short term profits regardless of social and
environmental costs. Now, so I talk about the death economy, which is what that has created
and I was part of creating that we've created an economic system that is marching us towards,
that we're consuming and polluting ourselves towards self-destruction. Based on this perception
of maximization of short term profits regardless of the social and environmental cost, what have
we turned that around and said, let's have our goal be to make short term profits for business
because you got to make some profits, but you don't have to maximize them. Put a bunch of that
money and put a bunch of the efforts and energy into creating a life economy, an economic system
that pays people to clean up pollution, to corral all the plastic that's floating around in the
oceans and recycle it, to regenerate destroyed environments, to create technology, solar and
wind, we're on the way to doing that. We are in the process of creating a life economy,
but let's pay people to do things that make life better, to make life for all living creatures
and for my 16 year old grandson and all of his brothers and sisters around the world.
There's no reason why we can't have a really good lifestyles, but by paying ourselves to do things
that are not based on short term maximization and destruction, the death economy. I like that
instead of the term construction often, a lot of what we call construction these days is actually
destruction. So I think we can come up with an economic system that gives us both, that allows
us to use these technologies in support of a long life and in support of future and we can have growth
it's just that we can't have growth in areas where we've been looking at this extreme materialistic
tearing up of the earth. We don't need to go out of mind for copper. There's a lot of copper around
that's just not being used. Think about the pennies. What about cobalt? What about lithium? We need
these iPhones, don't we? Yeah. We need our Tesla cars that drive on batteries and then have these
big fancy screens in them. Yeah. That's a lot of slave labor, a lot of mining of lithium. It doesn't
have to be slave labor. Yes, women have to pay more, but we'd also be paying people more to do
these tasks. Henry Ford said, I want to pay everybody in my factories enough money so they
can buy a Ford car. Well, what if we paid those miners in the Congo and elsewhere who were mining
lithium? What if we paid them enough so they could buy cell phones and electric cars and convert?
Then no one would be able to afford an iPhone.
If we look at human history, we've been around as... Look, I would be willing to pay more for an
iPhone if we would get rid of that shit. Yeah, so would I. I think a lot of people would, I think.
But it's a matter of redefining what it means to be successful. For most of human history, 200,000
years or so that we've defined ourselves as homo sapiens, sapiens, wise, wise humans,
which is kind of a laugh because who else is destroying the... But my cats aren't destroying
the world around them. They may be breaking havoc on my house. But for about that 200,000,
most of those 200,000 years, we've lived in a life economy, an economic system that regenerates itself.
The indigenous people I work with, it's all about the long term. They're not just looking at the
short term. It's only been within the last blink of history, blink of an eye of history,
maybe 2,000 years, but a short term in the history of humans that we've been on this trajectory
of creating a system that ultimately seems to be headed towards self-destruction.
And I would just add that when I was in business school back in the late 60s,
I was taught that a good CEO makes a decent rate of return for investors, but also pays his employees
well, gives them healthcare insurance, pension funds, and invests in the communities where his
factors are built by putting money into recreational facilities, libraries, or educational facilities.
In other words, he's a good citizen, not maximizing profits, making enough profits,
a decent rate of return. And then in 1976, Milton Friedman won the Nobel Prize in Economics,
and Friedman had the ear of the world, and he said, no, the only responsibility of business
is to maximize short term profits, regardless of the social and environmental costs. That was a
fairly new concept. It had been growing, it had been growing, but he really had to take off, he
Thatcher loved him, and Reagan loved him, and he traveled around the world promoting this concept
of maximization of profits. And Jack Welch comes along at GE, and other people became these icons
that cutting costs, paying, cutting people's salaries, firing people to make the bottom line,
to make profits bigger and bigger and bigger, put it in the hands of a few wealthy investors
who are already wealthy and make them more wealthy. That's the course we've been taking,
and it's taking us into this death economy. We have an opportunity now to turn that around,
to redefine what it means to be successful humans, to create a life economy. I have to say, Danny,
I'm excited to still be alive at this time when we're moving in this direction. I think everybody
listening to this program should feel blessed that you live at this time, that we're here now,
that we have this opportunity. We are understanding that we're on a trajectory that's dangerous,
very dangerous, whether we're talking about what's going on with the potential wars and nuclear
explosions, climate change. It all comes back to an economic system that we can call the death
economy. These other things are symptoms. They're not the problem. They are problem,
but they're not the problem. The problem comes back to human greed that's defined in this idea
of a death economy. But human greed is not inherent in human beings. I don't see it in
indigenous cultures. I don't think we had it for most of our 200,000 years. People took care of each
other. It was important to be part of the community. Native North Americans had this thing called
the potlatch. Part of it was giving away what you had. It wasn't trying to take more from people.
It was giving away. The people I have worked with in the Amazon, if you're a good canoe builder,
you build canoes and you give me a canoe in exchange. I'm a good hunter, so I bring back
some good meat for you on a weekly basis or whatever. This is exchange, but it's recognized
that if anybody is suffering needlessly, people may suffer because they broke a leg or whatever,
but if anybody is suffering needlessly for want of something, the whole community suffers and
you take care of it. I think that's human nature, and I think we've moved away from it by a philosophy,
a mindset, perception. We get back to touching the jaguar. Let's touch that jaguar and turn the
perception around of what it means to be successful humans, be successful human beings, being human.
Let's be human.
I get what you're saying. I agree with you, but due to the trajectory that we're currently on
right now in this world, in this nation, do you really see that as a possibility?
I do.
How so? How would it be implemented?
I wouldn't be sitting here with you if I didn't believe that. I wouldn't be writing books.
I'd be out, you know, whining and dining and bringing myself silly. I don't know. I don't know.
No, I do. I think we're moving in that direction.
Really?
Yes. I mean, solar, wind.
Solar and wind.
Have moved us away from fossil fuels. They're at their infancy, but 20 years ago everybody said
solar will never be economically feasible. It is, but that's just one example. What I hear,
and I've had the opportunity to travel around the world speaking because of these books that have
gotten to be so popular and more recently doing a lot of it by Zoom. And everywhere I go, I see
that people are really waking up to the fact that we have to change. And that's the first stage.
They're not actually changing. Remember perception. Our perception is changing. The next step is to
implement actions that honor the new perception. And then that changes reality. We haven't really
got to taking the actions in a very strong way yet. And as you mentioned earlier, we're being
distracted terribly by the war in Israel or Gaza, the war in Ukraine, and so many, so many
distractions. The political outrage sitting this country right now is a big distraction.
And there's so many distractions, but people still around the world are getting that we need to
change. I mean, yes, I do think there's hope. I would hate to put a probability on it, because
I also think there's a pretty high probability that we won't go that direction. And if we don't
make the changes that we need to make, we're headed toward more and more catastrophe. I truly
believe. So there's these two paths. In fact, they have Gonkwin speaking people where I come
from in New Hampshire. A long time ago said human beings at some point in history are going to be
offered the opportunity to take two paths. One path will lead to their destruction as human beings.
The other will lead to a much more glorious world. I think we're at that crossroads right now.
That's my belief. And I'm sticking to it and it may not be true, but it gives me the hope
that we can take the right path. And I see people around the world wanting to do that.
Yeah, I think it's got to be a lot more microscopic. It's got to be at a way more foundational level.
It's got to go way deeper than just solar and wind and green energy. Absolutely.
I don't think the solar and I think that in some ways actually one of the distractions that we've
been talking about. I don't know. I'm not a climate expert, but I don't think that the solar and the
wind and all the fight about climate change, I think it's more of a dog and pony show than
really serious. I think it's been more of a political football.
If you lived on one of those islands and being inundated right now, you might not feel that way.
What island?
There's a bunch of them on the Pacific Ocean that are sinking or they're not actually sinking.
The ocean is rising around them. And we're definitely seeing glaciers melting tremendously.
I go to the Andes and these Cotopaxi, these great mountains that have these
bulk. The glaciers are melting rapidly. There's a lot more desertification in Africa.
Yeah, but isn't this all cycles? Aren't these cycles the climate change and the rising and
falling of the ocean level? Isn't this been happening since for hundreds of thousands of
years in cycles?
Sure, there are cycles.
In fact, I think in the Renaissance period, the climate was way warmer than it is now.
And I think usually those were, if they happened abruptly, it was because of the great
volcano went off simply.
Cosmic impacts, younger dryers.
Cosmic impacts. And I think the catastrophe, there you go, Pacific Island country is facing
faster sea level rise, UN says. Yeah. And I think the equivalent to a big volcano going off
in our times has been the incredible use of fossil fuels, the industrialization that
has, how can it not be impacting the atmosphere? How can it not be impacting the climate?
I think it's definitely impacting the climate, but I don't think it's,
I don't think it's going to be as near and as catastrophic as an issue to human lives as the
media makes it out to be. I think things like the media and a lot of the climate activists,
I think a lot of it's disingenuous and it's used as a political football. Like I said,
you have these guys flying around at these Davos conventions and they're private jets.
There's like a thousand private jets that show up there and to do this talk and they all want
to implement these things with these big corporations. And how many deaths is it going to be responsible
for? And what period of time is it going to be responsible for that? Like if you just look at
United States of America and look at the deaths that happen every year from drug overdoses,
I think it's upwards of 100,000 a year. Is it reasonable to say that climate change would
be responsible for 100,000 American deaths a year in the next 10 years? I think it's reasonable
to say that climate change is responsible for way more than 100,000 deaths in Africa right now.
With the desertification, the change of climate, all these people trying to immigrate up to Europe.
We're seeing it in Latin America too. We're seeing tremendous changes. We're seeing fires in the
Amazon that never occurred before, extreme droughts. Yeah, they're setting fires in the Amazon.
But there also is this happening in the extreme droughts areas that I go into that never had
droughts before, not having droughts. So I think it's happening now. And I would just say, look,
assuming you're in a car and you're slowing down and there's a cliff over there and you're
saying, well, the car's slowing. I don't need to use the brakes. We're not going to go over the
cliff here to closer and closer and closer to the cliff. And no, I don't need to use the brakes.
The car's going to slow down. And maybe it will. But why wouldn't you step on the brakes? So if
there's a possibility that we are creating the problem or a large part of the problem, wouldn't
it be reasonable to do something about it if there's a possibility? We don't know for sure,
let's say. Let's combine it into your contention. We don't know for sure. But there's that possibility
and it's a distinct possibility. So we should do everything we can to put on the brakes. Don't
wait for the car to come to a stop by its own inertia. Let's put on the brakes. Totally. And
we have this opportunity. Again, I want to say that creating a life economy is not putting us
back to living caves. We're creating a new economic system that benefits all life. And
we've had it before throughout our history. Indigenous people still have it. We can do it.
We can do it. And yeah, solar and wind are not the answer. By the way, I think there's just
one tiny, tiny speck of a possibility that's been happening. But there's all kinds of
possibilities that can happen. If the Mayan people had really understood what they were
doing, they could have prevented their culture from collapsing. But they didn't. And now they're
telling us, you're making the same mistake. Yeah, I think at the end of the day,
getting back to your history and everything that you've done, I think a lot of this has a lot to
do with the fight for power in the world of the big superpowers, the nation states.
At the end of the day, those guys are going to do whatever they want because at that level,
it's lawless. It's anarchy. Yeah, that's a sad part. And I think one of the first things that
we could do, I think one of the most obvious things we could do is to make it illegal for
corporations to buy laws and to buy policymakers. Totally agree. Reverse the laws that have given
corporations so much power, like you're at Citizens United and other ones. Yeah, totally agree with
you. And I also agree, leadership is the problem. And it's always been the problem where you had
Rome had a pretty good democracy for a while until finally one of the leaders, one of the
Caesar decides, no, no, no, I want it all for myself. And I think that's been the
downfall, the hubris of our leaders throughout history has been the biggest problem for us.
And how do you get around that? I don't know. I don't know. But I think if we can redefine,
change the perception of what it means to be successful humans, so it isn't about owning a
bigger yacht. It isn't about having a bigger house. It's about doing things that feel better,
that make things better. You know, when I was an economic hit man, I was making a lot more money
and I thought I was living the American dream. But at some point when I told you about,
I went through this epiphany. But at the same time, I was also recognizing that I was not happy.
I was living on alcohol and Valium. We didn't have some of the drugs we did today.
Quaaludes? Yeah. I was flying off from Boston to Indonesia. It went one period of three months.
I went, I think, 12 times. Wow. And that's halfway around the world. And so I'd arrive
at a destination at night and go into the bar and drink myself silly and then take
Valium so I'd fall asleep. And then the next morning, I'd stuff myself with caffeine until
I could go into a meeting and negotiate a multi-million dollar contract. And I realized,
geez, I think I'm happy because I'm living the American dream.
Yeah. Well, then why am I living like this? Why am I doing these things? I'm not happy.
And I think there's an analogy there with where we are as a species now that we think we're happy
by having bigger yachts and bigger houses or whatever. I downsize my house a lot and I just
gotta say it doesn't weigh with a lot of worries and cleaning bills and electrical bills. I'm so
happy to live in a much, much, much smaller house today. Tiny house. Yeah. Yeah, man. I think
going back to your idea about aliens, I think one of the ways we could reset ourselves and
reset our perspective if aliens landed here, it'd give us a new perspective on the world and the
universe. Maybe that overview theory that your buddy Edgar Mitchell had happened to him would
happen to the world if the aliens came, but they won't fucking come. Well, we are the aliens.
It's not humans. It's our philosophy of life right now. I'm modern. I'm not a human philosophy
about it. I'm modern and that may go back a couple of hundred, maybe a couple of thousand years,
but it's still modern in terms of overall human history. Right. Well, John, thank you so much
for coming down here and doing this. I really appreciate it. It's been a lot of fun. I really
enjoyed this. I really enjoyed this talk. It's been inspiring and eye-opening and tell people
where they can find your books, find more of your talks, get in touch with you, all that stuff.
JohnPerkins.org. I'm an orgasm. I'm an organism.
Beautiful. Yes. I'm not a calm. I'm an org. John Perkins.org. All the information is right there.
And I love it if people sign up for my newsletter, which comes out about once a month and is
incredibly brilliant and it's changing the world. No, but you just put your email address
in the little box right there. Oh, look at that. There's your website. Oh my
beautiful. Who is that handsome guy? Handsome devil. And look at that. You update your book.
I love how you do updates of your book. Oh my God. Look at that.
Awesome John. Well, that's in Russia. That was at the World Economic Forum.
World Economic Forum. St. Petersburg Economic Forum,
internationally with Putin. There's Klaus Schwab there.
Yeah, I imagine he was. I didn't meet him.
All right. Thanks again, John. Look at that. Everybody go to John's website,
JohnPerkins.org, asm slash books. You can find his books, all of his incredible talks
and lectures. Thanks again, man. I really appreciate it. Also, we did a Patreon exclusive
Q&A. If you guys want to go check out that on Patreon, it's linked below.
It doesn't say much. It doesn't say much. So yeah, don't get your hopes up.
That was busy, but we just done it all here. Good night, everybody.
