It's kutcher like butcher kutcher like butcher. Yeah, okay. Okay. Cool. Well, first of all,
thanks for having me on today. And it's good to be in sunny Florida and not in freezing Denver,
Colorado. Who I am and my story. My name is Michael Kutcher. You know, my, I guess,
where I kind of come into my stories really about what my story is really all about is
overcoming obstacles. It's persevering through life. You know, I often talk to people about
knowing their purpose in life. And I know that that's kind of a big, big question, right,
of what's your purpose in life. But I've been through certain obstacles and challenges in my
life. They've led me to my purpose. And, you know, I don't think that a lot of people understand
their purpose at all. But I've been fortunate enough to, to go through challenges and obstacles
throughout my life. They have led me to a purpose of really inspiring people, and kind of having
a greater appreciation for for life. You know, yeah, that's, it's, you know, we all have our
stories, right? We all we all have our obstacles and challenges to overcome. But I've found a unique
way to kind of turn that into an inspirational story for others. And hopefully it just inspires
people and gives gives people hope. It really kind of my story covers, and we'll get into this,
but my story covers really kind of two realms of overcoming obstacles. One is persevering
through disability, where, you know, I go back to to kind of how I'm channeling my my story to
others is the disability community really kind of needs a voice, I feel about overcoming obstacles
and challenges. And I found that I can be that voice or I want to be that voice. The other is
around the the just the overall appreciation for life. We're really more centered around organ
donation and how that affected my life as well. So you, you were the benefited from an organ donor
when you were very young. Can you explain what led up to that? Like, you were very young,
like 13 years old, right? Yep. Yeah. So it was it's really an odd story. One that, you know, I
tried to put in real terms for for people and understanding that, hey, listen, like this wasn't
due to a birth defect. This wasn't due to a traumatic issue that I had growing up. Let's
start. Let's start from the beginning. Let's tell it. Let's start from the beginning leading up to
that. So explain to the audience the story of you being born. You were you were a twin.
So I was born a twin. Actually, my parents didn't even know that they were going to have twins.
The whole time they didn't know? No, no, until about two hours before birth. Wow. So
talking about like a surprising moment, unexpected moment for my parents. I mean, you have a child.
Yeah, I just had a child. I can't imagine. I mean, could you imagine the doctor walking
into the delivery room saying, hey, Danny, guess what? We noticed there's two babies.
Yeah, I can't even imagine. I can't imagine having the one child I have now and multiplying
that by two. Yeah, you'd be going nuts, right? So it started out that way. It's where I was the
unexpected twin. Okay. And my brother was born. My brother was born very healthy and
you're weighing the average size. I think he weighed like 7.9 pounds, 8 pounds, healthy baby boy.
When I was born, I weighed about 4.6 pounds. Half size. And I was almost supreme, really.
Not breathing when I was born. And then I, you know, started to lose weight. I had to be rushed to
the Nick unit, read my last rights because they didn't know if I would survive. But, you know,
I kept fighting. And about a month later, I was able to go home to my family. So you say
there for a month when you stayed there in the Nick unit, receiving oxygen and just gaining my
weight, you know, I would slip to like three pounds. And then I think it like five, five and a
half pounds, you can officially go home. So I was sent home after a month. And, you know, is
this growing up just, you know, I was, my mom was raising three kids at this point, two twins,
and they're a three year old. Okay. And then we're sisters, right? Yeah, she's three years old. Okay.
She was three years old. And, you know, at about the age of three, my mom just realized that,
you know, Michael's not developing the same that, you know, Chris and Tasha, my brother and sister,
and she was very in tune with what was going on with us kids at home. And she raised some concerns
with physicians and area education specialists. Come to find out my mom actually diagnosed me with
a disability with cerebral palsy when I was three years old. My mom did. Yeah. Well,
I credit it to my mom just because she was so in tune with what was going on. Right. And every
time she would go to the physician, he would say, well, he'll catch up, right? Just he'll catch up,
he'll catch up. And my mom's a bulldog on some things. And she just won't give up. And she didn't
give up to many answers. And then as he took a closer look, they realized that I had developed
cerebral palsy. And they don't know where I developed it. And really, that's it. That's kind
of an issue within that within cerebral palsy itself is the understanding of really what causes CP.
It can be a number of recent things. But the cerebral palsy is the the leading motor
disability among children today. Yeah, yeah. So it's pretty prevalent. And it's kind of this,
you know, it's a motor disability. So it comes in all shapes and sizes and forms,
severity. I have a very mild form of cerebral palsy. So, you know, I've got the the eyesight
issues. I've got hearing issues. I slur my speech a little bit.
But my right side's a little bit weaker than my left. But if I'm walking down the street,
or even if someone's listening to this podcast here, they're not going to probably think that I
have a disability, right? But then you've got other severities where you've got people in,
you know, in wheelchairs. And you've got, yeah, it's a wide range because it's interesting because
when a diagnosis, there really is no kind of aha moment of, oh, yes, he definitely has cerebral
palsy. It's kind of, they take a bucket, right? So like, oh, well, you've got all the classic signs,
we just can put you in this, in this bucket over here where you could have autism as well,
and cerebral palsy. So, yeah, I mean, long story short, at three years old,
my mom diagnosed me with having a disability. What age do they typically diagnose cerebral palsy?
Well, they're starting to find out that in looking to ways that they can diagnose it earlier
at the infancy stage, even in the womb, they're looking at ways that they might be able to
diagnose. They didn't really know, like I said, what causes it. Sometimes when babies extracted
at birth, you know, there can be some cerebral damage that could cause it. They believe that I was
due to being born at such a low birth weight. They feel that I was giving too much oxygen
during birth that led to, you know, some cerebral
damage or issues. But there's really no real, real kind of thought around the causes,
multiple causes, I guess. To answer your question, typically it's around three years old,
two, three years old that the kids are diagnosed when they start seeing obvious signs of this.
But back in 1978, you know, it wasn't as widely known. And physicians, like I said, just kind of
passed it off as it was something that the child would overcome. Right.
Your brother was born twice the weight of you. I mean, obviously they think that that has something
to do with, you know, your development, because obviously something happened in the womb. You
guys were sharing the same womb. Maybe he got more nutrients than you did or something like that
happened. And at three years old, when your mom diagnosed you, what changed when she diagnosed
you from leading up to that point? Yeah, you know, I often talk that and say that nothing changed,
at least not in my family. You know, we were middle class Iowa family, right, where, you know,
at that point, my dad was, you know, I think he was working at a packing plant at that point. And
my mom was doing some stuff with area education teaching and also, you know, raising three kids
at home. But what's very awesome and unique, well, I wouldn't say unique, what's special about my
family is that even though I was born with a disability and diagnosed with that disability
at three years old, they didn't treat me any different than they did Tasha and Chris. There
was no, it was all about inclusion in my household, which is great because it made me thrive. It made
me challenge me to do things. I recall many times doing physical therapy with my siblings,
right? There's one like one of the things with physical therapies, I would have two or three
dishes laid out, and I would take jelly beans and move them from one dish to another, try and
like help the dexterity of my fingers. Because my right side, my right hand has less dexterity than
my left. And Chris was there doing the same thing with me. But he thought that we were just doing
a game. He just thought that we were just playing around. I belittle did he know it was actually
my physical therapy that he was joining in on, right? So my mom was- Chris is your brother?
Chris is my brother, right? Okay, right. And so my mom was just very inclusive with the whole
family. And that said a lot about how I was treated growing up, at least inside the family
and with friends and peers. And it also kind of gave my siblings the understanding of
you know, working with someone with a disability and how you treat other individuals. So, you know,
it was I'm forever grateful for my parents for giving me that kind of, you know, that challenge
throughout my life and not treating me as if I needed special treatment or, you know,
they needed to cater to me. Things were normal. In fact, when I was going through kindergarten
and going in first grade, the elementary school wanted to hold me back, right? Because they're
just, you know, kids get held back for a grade, right? And my mom said absolutely not. She said,
Michael will go through the education program with, you know, alongside his brother every step
of the way. And that just challenged me more. And you did? Did you go to school with your
brother the whole way? I did. Really? The whole way. Yeah, we were in the same kindergarten class.
But after that, they started to separate you. Oh, really? So yeah, so we were in different
classes, you know, growing up all the way through. But yeah, we, we graduated high school together.
Yeah, I mean, we're going through the same, same grades. Sometimes unfortunately, we're in the same
clothes, right? Mom wanted to be, way I should want to be matchy, matchy. But you know, it's it,
I don't think that my life would turn out the way it has today without my brother. Because I talk
about inclusion in the household and how great the household was. But when you step outside the
household, outside those family dynamics, society has a whole different view for you, right? And
a whole different approach. And often talk about the playground. And, you know, we've always heard
the phrase of the playgrounds, the cruelest place for kids. Yeah, kids can be shitheads.
And it is, I mean, it's just complete shitheads. It's, you know, I think I've been called every name
in the book, every kind of disability name. And it's hurtful, especially at that age when you
don't know how to deal with it, you don't know how to internalize it. You don't realize that these
kids are just, they don't know any better, because they haven't been taught the right things at home.
Right. But me on the playground was a little bit different because he was there with me.
Right. And I mean, he would literally like take fights for me and stand up for me. Yeah, I mean,
he's, in some respects, he's my big brother, right? And he took on that role for me. They really,
you know, gave me an insight of how a society really is with people with disabilities.
And I've got a mild disability, right? And people that were picking on me probably just
didn't even know I actually had a disability, like a name disability. They probably just thought
that I had thick glasses or need hearing aids. And it, like I said, just gave me more perception
on how life was going to be growing up in a societal way, a societal view. And as I did grow up,
I think that they really kind of suppressed my comfort with having a disability. I had my
disability for years. It wasn't. Didn't talk about it. Didn't talk about it. Didn't acknowledge it.
No one asked. Because I was really internalized. I was really afraid of, you know, what would my
friends think? What would my employer think when I started working? Would they treat me differently?
You know, trying to build a relationship with a woman. How is that going to work? Who's going to
accept that? So it really kind of held that in for a number of years. And you had a heart
transplant, right? I did. And how old were you when that happened? And why did they have to do that?
Yeah, I was 13. So once again, going back, it had nothing to do with developing cerebral palsy,
nothing to do with being underway at birth. I'd like to say that, you know, in a joking way,
I just got dealt a different set of cards, you know, than maybe even my twin did. And that's
okay with me. I'm cool with that. I'm glad that happened that way. At age 13, I just got sick.
I mean, I thought I had the flu. You're on Thanksgiving time, so I was off school. I was
home for about, you know, about a week. And, you know, didn't really go to the doctor because
what's the doctor going to tell you? Like, you know, it's viral. Go home. Don't worry about it.
And in some respects, I'm glad I didn't go to the doctor so early because
they would have kind of passed up the signs that I thought that actually were critical.
And so after a week when, you know, I wasn't getting better, my mom finally took me to
to an area hospital where they realized that I was, you know, severely dehydrated,
but also through an x-ray, they realized that my heart was four times the size of a normal heart.
Wow.
So it was enlarged and they had no idea why. I'd later, you know, see a cardiologist and
it was then determined that I had a viral, what they call myocarditis,
a viral inflammation of the heart. And, you know, it was that cardiologist recommendation
that I have a heart transplant. So, yeah, it was pretty, pretty alarming, I guess,
point in my life. Scary. But at 13 years old, you...
How do you process that when you're a 13-year-old?
You don't. I mean, you don't. Or at least I didn't. I didn't know what was going on.
I just thought that, you know, it would be a quick process and it would be like
getting your appendix out. And really, I remember asking the cardiologist how long I'd be out of
school. Oh, really? That's probably the biggest concern.
Yeah. You know, how much ice cream do I get to eat? Because it just wasn't...
I didn't understand the severity of it. And it didn't take long for me to quickly understand when
someone asked, you know, how much time I would have. And I kind of had to think and process
that for a moment and realize what they're talking about, you know.
How long you would have to live?
Yeah. And, right, how long would my current heart have to survive? And he told me three to four weeks.
So, I mean, here I am, three to four weeks to live, 13 years old. There's a lot that goes through
your mind.
They need to find somebody to donate a heart to you, right? It's not like,
okay, sure, we'll schedule you for next week. They have to... I mean, there's obviously like a
waiting list to get organ transplants, right?
Yeah, there is. And I don't know, it was like back then compared to what it's like now, but...
Yeah, it wasn't as prevalent. I mean, the first heart transplant, I think, was in 1969. I was
number 50 at the University of Iowa Hospital. So, it's a fairly new procedure. And you're right.
I mean, they've got to find, when they look for a donor, it's got to be the right match of tissue,
size, blood type. So, it's got to be an ideal match. And when I was first diagnosed,
I went through several tests. And when I went to a larger hospital, they thought that they could,
you know, care me. And they thought that they could decrease the inflammation of the heart.
And I wouldn't need a transplant. So, here I am with a great medical team at the University of
Iowa Hospital and Clinics. And they're trying their best to assist me. But just as the first
cardiologist had predicted, about three to four weeks later, I would just slip into cardiac arrest.
And at this point, remember that the hospital doesn't think that I need a heart transplant.
The larger medical hospital. So, I wasn't even put on the list. Yeah. So, here I am in cardiac
arrest and I'm not even put on the transplant list yet. It wasn't until I went into cardiac arrest
that I was put under the transplant list. How long did it take them to find somebody with a heart?
Yeah. I don't know what that could have been like. Right. I mean, people wait for years.
People wait for a long time. You had less than three weeks? I had less than three weeks. And
now I've got less than 48 hours. Once you went into cardiac arrest? Yeah. Once I went into cardiac
arrest, they determined that my parents really had two choices. They could either put me on a
ventricle pump, which would cycle my blood, the kind of artificial heart for me. Or they could
say their goodbyes at that point. Because they didn't feel, physicians didn't feel that if I went
through another cardiac arrest, that I would survive. And my parents took the window of the
ventricle pump. But back then, the ventricle pump, your heart tissue would start to die
if it wasn't actually pumping itself. Because it's a muscle, right? So you're only really,
the heart tissue dies after about 48 hours. So really, I've only got a 48. Yeah. So I've only
got like 40 hour window on this ventricle pump. At this point, I'm, I'm out of it, right? I'm so
drugged up. Morphine is a great thing. Yeah. Yeah, it's a great thing. But yeah, it was a very
difficult time. I mean, my, think about it, I mean, my parents are faced with this, the same thing
they faced 13 years ago, right? Bringing the chaplain in, reading the last rights. I mean,
I, yeah, I mean, you've got a son now. I mean, I've got kids.
Could you imagine how much harder it, how hard it was for your parents, let alone you?
I can't, right? There, there's some of the strongest people I know to be able to
persevere through, through this. And that's, that's where I get the most of my strength,
you know, is through, through my family and looking at the obstacles that we've been through.
And I was, we were just fortunate enough, you know, by, by the grace of God that
a match was found, you know, within 24 hours. So yeah, so I only, I only literally waited on
the transplant list for about 24 hours. So I was, you know, I always joke that it was,
I was number one in the country. Probably the only time they'll ever be number one in the nation.
But yeah, but yeah, I mean, my severity was so high. I was so sick. That was, I was number one.
So they found the ideal individual and a match was made. And it's interesting that we,
we, we sit here today in Tampa, Florida, right? Because, because my match, my donor actually came
from, from what I'm told, I came from the Tampa Bay area. Really? Yeah. So it's like this, like a
home coming for me. Home is where the heart is, right? Exactly. Something like that. I like that,
I'll use that. Yeah. So your parents, they, within 24 hours, they were jumping for joy,
so to speak, because they found a, they found a match for you. And then you underwent the
operation, right? So how long did the operation take for you to get a new heart? It took about
eight to 10 hours. Yeah. And, you know, once again, I can't imagine what my parents are going through
and my siblings and, and, you know, I'd never want to be putting that, that type of place.
But yeah, I mean, it took about eight to 10 hours and took the old out, put the new in, and
you know, I've been blessed. Yeah. I truly am. I heard when you get the new heart, you sort of
develop some of the intuitions that the previous owner of that organ had. Is that true? I mean,
there's been studies and books about it, right? What's a little hard because I don't know a
lie about my donor. Okay. But B, I was only 13 years old. And so, so the habits, yeah, well,
and the habits that I built, I attribute that those are, those are my habits, right? This is
the way I am. Right. Yeah. Yeah, or even to have developed my own intuitions. But my donor was a
female. So, you know, I, I don't know whether it's just the circumstances I've been through,
the obstacles I've been through, or it's, yeah, you know, people say females are more emotional.
Yeah, I find myself, you know, watching a sad TV program or like even like just thinking of
something like, like sad, I just get tearyed. You like watching the notebook? Oh, I can't,
I can't watch that. I can't deal with the notebook. I mean, it's such a good show. But, you know,
I know my, my fiancee probably laugh at me because a talk about chick flicks. But
no, I mean, I sometimes I'll watch, you know,
a video on like YouTube, right? I watched recently there was a video that ESPN put out about this,
this high school, I think it was high school or middle school kid in Iowa,
with cerebral palsy. And he was wrestling an opponent. And, you know, he beat him.
It was first time that he ever won a match in his wrestling career. And not only am I proud
that he's an Iowan, but you know, he just demonstrated a number of things about like
his perseverance and his passion, but also about the, the sportsmanship and the, the,
the, the wherewithal and maturity of the other wrestlers to, to allow him to
experience that, that joy in that moment. And, and, and it just stuff like that, that'll like
tear me into like a tailspin to where I need a Kleenex. So, um, but
it's not a bad thing necessarily. No, it's, it's not. And, um, you know, we, when we open this podcast,
at least it's not, it's not about side effect. That's the worst side effect of a new heart then.
Exactly. You're doing pretty good. And you know, when, when we open up this conversation,
you told me to kind of talk about my story and, you know, the, one of the things I mentioned
was my appreciation for life. And when you go through that type of experience of having 24 hours
to live, you, you do look at life differently. And you know, if a video makes me tear up,
then so be it. Right. I don't care. Right. There's worse things in this world to worry about. And,
um, it gives you a different perspective on appreciation on life itself, on the people in
your life. And, um, really what, what you're concerned with. And maybe what you're,
should be so concerned with. So it's, uh, definitely giving me a new kind of a new,
new lease on life. Yeah. For sure. So after you got the heart transplant, you, you obviously,
obviously took a while for that to heal up and for you to get back on your feet. Um,
what happened after that? Yeah. I mean, uh, life just goes on. Right. I mean, obviously there's
things that I have to, to worry about diet, health, can't go play football. Right. I mean,
we've just broken open the, the breastbone had major surgery. Um, but you know, there's, there's
worse things. Uh, there's more important things in my life at that point than worrying about playing
football or contact sports or whether I can eat pizza or salty foods. Um, you know, I'm just grateful
to, to wake up every day. Um, you know, I went through school and I had a great, amazing support
group through school, uh, and through my family and friends. And, um, you know, I just, I just
started living life as, as a normal teenage kid doing the normal stupid stuff a teenage kid does
and, and you know, having the sibling rivalries and try to find your own individual path. Right.
It was, it was difficult being a twin, you know, as his mom kind of mold you, mom and dad kind of
mold you together as, as one, it was always Chris and Mike, Chris and Mike. Right. Yeah. It's like,
you know, why does he always have to be first, right? Like, can't be Mike and Chris. Um, so it's,
you know, we did start to see kind of individual, uh, lives and paths start. Um, and then something
was kind of crazy happened when we were like, uh, about 18, probably at 19 years old or sophomore
year, I had went to, uh, a small, uh, Catholic college in, in my hometown, uh, and worked, uh,
in the banking community growing up and, and stayed close to home. My brother went to Iowa City
and he actually, um, wanted to study to be a biochemical engineer at the University of Iowa.
Yeah. Cause he, he wanted to, um, go into medical science as a biochemical engineer and
find cures and develop like different research around my heart ailment. Really? Yeah. So, so
that was his career path. Um, I did not know that at first. Right. And then he, uh, it quickly
changed. Uh, yeah. It quickly changed. Uh, he, he was a sophomore in college and, uh, was, uh,
noticed by a modeling scout, um, and, um, asked to, to be in a modeled talent show in Iowa. I mean,
of all places, Iowa, right? Modeling show in Iowa. Yeah. We've got, we have a lot of attractive people
in Iowa. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and he, um, he actually kind of tussled with that kind of invite for a while
and long story short, he, he, he did the talent show, actually won the talent show. Yeah. He
went on to be, to go to New York, uh, to be in a larger modeling talent show, uh, ended up, uh,
placing well in that talent show. And, uh, next thing I know, my brother's on billboards,
modeling underwear for Calvin Klein. Oh my God. Yeah. So, um, we were probably, I think,
I'm still in college, you know, trying to get my, my higher education. Right.
Looking at pictures of your brother wearing tidy whiteies on billboards. Yeah. Right. Uh,
but, you know, good for him. He was able to travel the world and, and, uh, get into that.
And you've been calling him Chris this whole time. I have. Is that his real name?
Well, yeah, it is. Um, and, uh, I guess here's where we redevolved the secret, right? Maybe
of, of who I'm speaking of. Um, my, my brother was born Chris for Ashton. Okay. So Ashton's
his middle name and, uh, how the, the story goes is he was, um, from what I heard, how he
changed the name, so to speak, was, um, he was, uh, in a, uh, model agency. And, and when the call
came through to send Chris to the, the, the, to the shoot, um, they really, they had like three
or four Chris's in the, in the age of three and, you know, they didn't know who'd send. And, um,
at least that's the story I heard. Maybe it's different, but, um, he, um, they, you know,
decided to the Ashton was the better, um, more unique, right? More model, I guess,
better model name for him. Um, so he, uh, a rank quicker on Google. Yeah. I guess. Right.
No one beats an A. Maybe that was before Google. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. But, um,
so that, that took him to, uh, to be known as Ashton. And, uh, you know, then he, um,
he always wanted to act. Did he really? Yeah, he did. He was always in plays and, uh,
even before the modeling talent shows. Yeah. Yeah. He was always, uh, doing high school plays
and musicals. And, um, and then he, you know, I'm really proud of him because I mean, here's one
guy and he does it to this day. When he sees something, he just goes for it. Like, I don't care
how big the dream is. He just, he just takes it. Um, and, and he achieves greatness through it. And
there's, yeah, there's, there's a lot to be said in that. And I think that more people need to do
that. Right. Uh, who cares if your dream is, you know, uh, more than what you think is possible.
Right. If that's your dream, go for it. And he did. And he, um, you know, went to LA to, to
audition for, uh, a few shows and, uh, lunch for a short ended up on, on that 70s show. And,
yeah. Wow. Kind of sure. I'm sure everyone knows the story after that. Yeah. Yeah. I think we were
like 2021, 21 when he's on that 70 show. Yeah. Around that time. So, um, and yeah, I, I really
struggled with, um, with that. I mean, it's, it's, yeah. I mean, here you are. I mean, you're,
you're going to college, right? You're still in Iowa and your twin brother is basically a movie
star now. Yeah. Uh, it was, and it, it really was kind of overnight type sensation. And,
you know, there was a lot of cool things that come with that, you know, um, and different
experiences that I'm grateful to be able to, to experience through him. But as an individual,
I really struggled with my own identity and trying because now I'm not just, I'm not just
Chris and Mike. Now I'm Ashton's brother. Right. And by the way, I have a name, right? I mean,
literally people would introduce me sometimes as Ashton's brother. Right. And to me that,
that was difficult to deal with. Was it? Yeah. I mean, it's,
he's my brother, right? Right. Like, like, right. At least introduce me with my first name first.
Right. And, and, and kind of like, why does it matter who I'm related to? Right. Um,
so I struggled with that. Just finding my own identity, like who is Michael Kutcher. And, um,
it was a difficult time for me, you know, I'm in my twenties and, um,
typically a difficult time for any 20 year old, but you have a very unique set of circumstances.
Yeah. Yeah. And believe me, I mean, there's, there's, you know, like I said, there's some,
some good that come with it. There's, you know, some perks, so to speak. But, um,
um, you know, I just wanted to find my own person. And I think that, you know, regardless of my
brother, I think that everyone struggles with that. Like, what's, what's my passion in life?
What's my purpose? What, what do I want to stand for? You know, and what do I want to do for a
career? And what do I want to do for a family? And you're on, you're on this earth for a fucking
reason. You've already been through so much. There's like, you know, if I'm you, I'm like,
if I'm still here, there's got to be a really important reason I'm still here.
Well, that's it. I mean, like here, here I am. Um, you know, I've, I've almost died at birth.
Um, I almost died with heart transplant. Uh, one thing we left out is during high school,
I had two other open heart surgeries to remove blood clots. So this was after the heart transplant.
Yeah. So here I am. I've almost literally died about four times, but I'm still here. But like,
to your point, like, why am I still here? Yeah. Like, what is my purpose? Yeah.
I gotta do something with this opportunity. Yeah. And now my brother is a major celebrity.
And I love my brother. You love your siblings and family is family. And, um, I'm,
yeah, he's, he's one of my best friends. He's a great inspiration to me and role model to me.
Um, and how do I utilize kind of the notoriety that I built kind of through that, right?
Um, because I never wanted to deny that he, you know, family is family. Um,
but how do I utilize that for the greater good and to be able to give back to people?
You know, and those are some, some great lessons that, that my brother taught me was,
you know, the gift of generosity and the gift of giving, giving back to others and,
and how much fulfillment you can actually receive through that. And, um,
then I, I, I kind of fell into my purpose when I was about 30 years old. So, um, I was, um,
I received a phone call one day and a woman asked me to speak at a gala, um,
a cerebral palsy gala that she was starting a foundation for in Iowa. Um,
I remember when I was speaking earlier where I said that, um,
I kind of denied that I had a disability. I still had that, but now I've got my brother,
you know, kind of talking about his family life and doing different media things and,
you know, kind of creeped out. So he was talking about you? Yeah. Okay. And my, and our upbringing
and, and myself having this disability and, um, you know, so, so when this woman asked me to,
um, to, to speak at this gala, uh, about my struggles with cerebral palsy,
I was like, you know, what are you talking about? You know, I, you know, I don't need to publicize
it anymore than it's been publicized. Um, and then she, she introduced, um,
she introduced me to her daughter and we talked about different severities of CP. Yeah, exactly.
And her daughter Bella, who is five years old, who's the same age as my son at that time, um,
you know, she, she had more, uh, limitations that I did. Okay. Right. Um, she,
she used a gate to walk. She, um, had trouble communicating without the use of a machine,
um, feeding tubes and 30 years old, it, uh, is something that kind of struck me. Yeah. Um,
but here's a child that is, you know, has all these limitations, but she's amazing.
I mean, her smile just lit up a room and she, she was beautiful and, and she was so happy
and so full of life. And it really was a key moment of mine where I was like,
like, you know, I, I gotta stop. Like, guess what? Our disability is called the same thing.
Right. Like why, like, why am I in the closet, so to speak, when this girl is so happy with
her disability and she has bigger limitations than you do. So, um, that's when I realized that,
that was kind of my voice. And that was my, um,
you feel like a responsibility kind of did. Yeah. And I felt like I could make a difference.
And, um, you know, so I, I spoke of that gala that was, you know, 12 years ago. Um,
and that was the first time I ever spoke in public, uh, about the cerebral palsy about, um,
organ donation, uh, about obstacles. Um, and then I've, I've sent some of the years learned to,
you know, build a network and build a, uh, you know, a foundation around that and build,
build my story to inspire audiences. And, and now I, I find myself, um,
um, being an advocate, uh, for cerebral, for disabilities overall. Um, I sit on the board of,
uh, as a, as an advisor for, uh, cerebral palsy foundation. Um, I have went to Washington to,
to, uh, advance budgets and speak about disability, cerebral palsy in, in specific.
There's been some advancement over the years. Um, and that's really due to,
you know, the, the people that I had kind of, I won't say on my team that, that I had the privilege
of, of joining them on their, their crusade. And that was, uh, I found out foundation I started
with called reaching for the stars out of Georgia. Um, same foundation that I spoke for
at, uh, at the Gala. Um, and, um, you know, we, we went to Washington and we were kind of naive
thinking that we would just point out the disparity in funding and they were just, it would be like
an aha moment. Like, oh, hey, like, yeah, you're right. Let's give them $5 million.
Let's point it out to them. I'm not sure they don't know about it.
But, um, little, uh, did we know that as we all know today, Washington's a little political,
a little bit, um, and, and, uh, person and, and, um,
when you look at the natural industry of health, uh, the NIH and the CDC and they're,
they're funding, uh, for different disabilities within the budget. They actually line item
every disability and, um, it would disturb into me, um, that, you know, there were, there were
great causes in there. Spine Bifida, autism, uh, Down syndrome, right? All, all great causes
and, and the needs there for those as well. Um, but there, there wasn't even mentioned or a line
item of cerebral palsy. Really? Yeah. Which, um, infuriated me. Um, and it wasn't because of lack
of trying. Um, so what, what the group that I was with, um, did was we raise, we raised awareness
around it. And, um, I'm not sure where the funding is to this date, um, but, you know, at least
there's recognition. Um, and, you know, they continued the cerebral palsy foundation,
continues to advocate, they continued to raise awareness and, and, and be resource for families
with cerebral palsy. And, uh, because it affects so many people, you know, worldwide, you know,
across our nation. Um, and then there's a large community there. Um, but then, you know, I started
to look at, you know, my work with cerebral palsy and, and how it, you know, I'm fighting for
rights and advocacy and, and to, to change societal views that I dealt with growing up,
right? That kind of put me in that closet, so to speak. Um, so as I started to fight and work
through those and talk through those, I realized like this, this, this isn't just cerebral palsy.
You know, cerebral palsy is what I'm affected with. And, and it, you know, I support those
initiatives, but we have to have a broader conversation around disabilities in general.
You know, my, my nephew was, uh, born with autism. He's five years old. Can we cite the
periodic table of elements with the corresponding atomic numbers at five years old? Wow. Some people
would call that a genius, right? For sure. But why are we labeling, labeling people with,
with different inabilities versus viewing their abilities? So let me ask you this. Can you do that?
Hell no. Right. Why are we saying that he has the inability to be social and sit down with you at
a table? Yeah. If we're going to do that and we're going to point him out for that,
why don't we point out your inability to recite periodic table? We don't. That's because we're
not focused on people's abilities as society. We focus more on the mainstream quote unquote
norms they can't achieve. You know, I go back to Bella and the little girl that inspired me.
She may not have all the abilities that you and I have, but she had the grace ability of all,
and that was to inspire me. Right. You know, same thing that my nephew does. So,
so I've started to kind of build that conversation and continue to build that societal conversation
around abilities. And, and, you know, I know I've mentioned the word disability here,
here quite a few times, but I've actually coined the phrase that I, I prefer the word
diffability. Diffability. Diffability with, with Fs, right? Because, because we're all different.
Who, I mean, who the hell wants to be the same? Right. I don't. Right. No. So I'm proud of my
differences. Right. And you have to embrace your differences and the abilities that you do have.
And yeah, also, I mean, think, think about the words that, that kind of how disability sounds.
I mean, it kind of, the prefix disc kind of has a, is a negative connotation. Yeah. Right. I mean,
the prefix alone means something negative. So I just, I think that we all have differences. We
all need to appreciate and celebrate our differences. And I still think the society has a ways to go
and that in the, in the conversation, just as much as we have a ways to go in the gender equality,
in the race equality, in the LGBTQ community. But I feel like the disability community is kind
of the, the one left out. There's so much stuff that we just, we just like to, we like to put them
in little boxes so we can understand them. Right. And you'd like to, to point out kind of the bigger,
bigger ones. Right. The more noticeable ones. And I think that society in changing views
you'll look at, look at that story of that YouTube of that, that young wrestler that I spoke about.
Right. The, what was his name again? He's named Logan. Logan. Okay. And so on my Twitter feed,
I threw it up there if anyone wants to see it. But, you know, people are starting to kind of
accept a little bit more. And that's kind of Logan on the mat. Right. Let's accept Logan on the
wrestling mat. Much like me on the playground. Or me, me in the home. But once you get to the
playground, things change. I just feel like there's always going to be more advancement that needs
to, needs to occur. Much like all the other communities out there, all the other, you know,
how we put people in boxes with race. And although you and I use social media as a kind of a way
to communicate with our audiences. And, and we're appreciative for that. You know, social media is
kind of divided or even though in some ways it's brought our country together. And communities
together is divided as well. I remember the days where, you know, my brother and I would go in the
backyard in the dirt pile and we would play with matchbox cars and we would build a road and,
and ramp matchbox cars off of a mountain, you know, Duke's a hazard, all that stuff.
Yeah. My kids don't do that the days. My kids are on social media. Snapchat, Instagram, Facebook,
Twitter, and YouTube. It consumes them. And so I think that, you know, along with the appreciation
of life and different things that we need to do in the appreciation of life, we also need to,
to look at the things that consume us and the things that maybe distract us, like, you know,
TV and our phones and our computers. And, and we need to get back to the day where we,
we have the ability to shell that off and we can talk to people. Yeah. That's why I think,
I mean, podcasts are awesome. Because we're sitting here, we're having a dialogue. I'm
telling you about my life. You're learning about my life. And I hope Danny, I hope that you're,
you're gaining a greater appreciation for life and a greater understanding for your own family
that you can go home and maybe, you know, Liam, right, is your son, Leo, Leo, sorry,
that maybe you'll hug him a little bit tighter tonight, right? Because you don't know when
he might get the quote unquote flu, right? God forbid, you know, anyone go through challenges
I have. But we got to, we got to get to the point where, and it's really my purpose is to
share my story and help people get to the point, even if it's just for the hour that I speak to
them, that they think about this stuff. And then they shut down the noise. And they, they really
just are in the moment and think about life. No. Yeah, I think, at least I hope the pendulum
will swing heavily the other way, eventually, and hopefully soon. Because, you know, you think of
the short attention span of social media apps, like Instagram and Twitter, just like the endless
scrolling, bite size, ADD type content and podcasting is sort of the opposite of that, right?
Yeah. And thank God, you know, I wouldn't be doing this if I didn't have a social media outlet
to, to distribute it, right? I wouldn't have this opportunity to sit here with you for an hour
and just to have a straight up one on one human connection with somebody.
Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, there's a beauty around it, right? And don't get me wrong, social media
does provide some great things to us. And it's a great outlet for people to communicate with people.
But there are, there are a lot of negative things associated with social media. And you say that
you hope the pendulum is going to swing, but I'm afraid it probably won't. I mean, it's going to get
worse. And, and, you know, I'm raising kids that are consumed with it. And you just, as a parent,
you're going to learn with, with Leo as, as he grows up is, it's going to get worse, you know,
when, when he's 15, 16, and you're going to have different, hopefully not worse challenges that I
deal with, you know, with Snapchat and Instagram. But it really goes back to, you know, we were
talking about this earlier, like how you raise your kids and, you know, the morals and the values
that you instill in them at a young age. And, you know, I look at my family, I look at, you know,
my brother that is, is doing great things. Does he have kids? He does. Yeah. So he's, he's a five-year
old and then a three-year old. Yeah, I see him doing great things in the, like the human trafficking
realm. Okay. You know, so he's, he's heavily advocates for that and is, he's literally saving
lives through his work with Thorn. Thorn is the name of his foundation. And then I look at my sister
who's heavily involved in the autism community. And when I go back to, you know, I look at all
three of us and, you know, we're all giving back in some way or another. And you guys are making
a difference. We're trying, right? And, and through, through the, the gift of giving to others and
our parents did something right, right? I don't know what, but I think it just goes back to the
morals and the values that they raised us with to where all three of us are, are trying to make a
difference in doing, doing great things. I think you guys are definitely moving the needle in the
right direction with what you're doing. And there was one story I heard. I wanted to ask you about
the story you told about playing basketball with your brother. Yeah. And there was an instance where
you guys were playing horse or something. Yeah. Yeah. This is, this is early on. We were probably
around 10 years old. And we were, you know, just in the backyard in the, in the driveway playing
basketball and playing the game of a horse. And I was losing and, and, and yeah, my brother went to
make a trick shot. And he made the trick shot using his right, using his right hand. And I mean,
we play a mean game of horse, like a serious game of horse where like you're calling your shots,
you're there's, there's no like BS in it. So, you know, he called a right handed shot.
And due to, you know, my limitation was cerebral palsy. I couldn't make the shot.
And I could make it with my left. So I made, I made the shot with my left hand. And he called
me on it. Yeah. And he said, no, he, he didn't make the shot. Supposed to do it with the right
hand. Supposed to do it with the right hand. So I still looked, you know, I was 10 years old and
you know, I had a pity party for myself. And you know, I remember telling him like, you know,
he was cheating because he knew that it was difficult for me to shoot with my right hand. And
you know, that I had every right to shoot with my left hand. And I was using my disability as a
crutch, you know, and at 10 years old, he, you know, he was more mature for his age. And
he just looked at me and he's like, you know, what, what are you, what are you doing?
You know, I looked up at him and, you know, he told me he's like, listen,
you gotta stop this. Like, I can't, I can't make this shot for you. Mom can't make this shot for
you. You're the only one that can, can do this. They can, can make this shot and overcome this
obstacle. And I'm paraphrasing out, obviously, but I got the message and I lost that game.
Didn't win, win the horse. In fact, he kind of kicked my ass at every sport. But
that says a lot too that he, he didn't, he never let you win. Oh yeah. He had no,
he had no reservation that would let me win. And you know, I lost that game, but I won that day.
I won the greatest lesson I think I've, I've ever learned in my life and that was just that,
you know, people can help you in moments. There's no, there's no reason why people can't help you.
I'm not saying that. But at the end of the day, when you've got a challenge or an obstacle
or an opportunity, you're the only one that can, can make that shot. You're the only one that can
overcome what you need to overcome in that moment. And you look at just even the little
things in your life that you might think are challenges or, you know, all their struggles,
right? Like, I mean, Leo crying in the middle of the night, right? Oh, you really got to like
get, brother, I've been there, right? I mean, do I really got to get up with this kid at,
you know, 3am? Because I've only gotten two hours of sleep. But why is it a struggle?
Why is it a challenge? It's not a challenge. It's your perception that it's a challenge.
That's actually an opportunity. That's an opportunity for you to get back to your son.
That's an opportunity for you to hold your son a little bit closer and bond with your son.
That's not, that's not a weakness. That's not a challenge that you face. Right. And I think that
that mindset is really just perception. Right. And I point out to people when I speak to them that
like, everything that you go through day to day basis, everything you work through,
they're not challenges. It's an opportunity. It's an opportunity to either do better,
be better, be better individual, be better human, or give back to other people,
or learn something. My dad always told me a valuable lesson. He said, you know,
a mistake made once is a lesson. Same mistake made twice. It's a lesson I learned.
So make mistakes. Learn from them. Take the opportunity to learn from them.
Don't make twice. Right. Don't make them twice. That was amazing. Well, I think we're running out
of time. We got to get you back soon. Dude, thank you so much. No, I appreciate the opportunity.
Your story is so inspiring. And I'm sure a lot of people can gain a lot of valuable insight from
from your story and what you have to tell your social media. Where can people find you online?
Where can people find you on your website, your Twitter? Yeah, I mean, it's pretty,
pretty simple. It's michaelkutcher.com. That's Kutcher, right. Kutcher, Kutcher, like Butcher.
Yeah, michaelkutcher.com, Twitter, actually, all of my social media is at mkutch. So MKUTCH.
I appreciate you giving a little shout out for that. And, you know, I hope that just
inspires people through some of my posts and some of my conversations. And,
you know, if you have the opportunity to, if I'm in your area speaking, you know,
I would love to share my message with your audience. And hopefully, you know, I give podcasts like
this and tell my story like this, because if it just touches one person, then I've done my job.
That's beautiful.
But there's, there's millions more to go.
Hell yeah, man. Thank you so much. Appreciate it.
Thank you.
