Alright three two one. What's up Nathan Crock? How you doing man? I'm doing quite well. Thank you for having me here. It's been forever since I've seen you
We went to high school together. Graduated in 2006. Graduated in 2006 like I was telling you before we started recording
For some reason you and I were in a bunch of the same classes
I have no idea why because I was way dumber than you and
The one thing that sticks out to me was that you were showing me some diagrams of how you were planned on putting your
Brain into a cyborg one day. Yeah, and then I never forgot about that. Yeah, well unfortunately
I did as does my nonsensical ideas. I dream big and yeah do outlandish things
And you sure this isn't the cyborg version of you here right now, and you're just not telling us. Of course not, okay
All right, I believe you that's incredible man, so I had to look you up, and I'm glad that you
Agreed to come on this super cool. Yeah my pleasure. I apologize in advance. I've been a little sick
I can't really imagine what I sound like in the microphone probably like some glorious like a kidnapper
filter right
Bring the briefcase and the money to the boom to the bridge by midnight. Yeah, we could put some effects on some auto-tune
Maybe or something
So what is it so for those people out there who may not know and I actually don't know how to say it myself
But what exactly do you do?
So I do two things I do research and machine learning which is colloquially referred to as artificial intelligence
We can talk maybe about the distinction between those two things and the second is I work
I direct the new side labs, which is an R&D division of a machine learning company and Tallahassee
so we have a lot of government contracts contracts big businesses agencies and
We offer some very common machine learning services and our job in the labs division is to ensure that all the services that we are
Offering our cutting-edge. We look up the latest research check out the papers go into the code and make sure that we're able to keep things
As impressive and useful as possible to our customers
What kind of things do you do there like to sum it down?
Sure, what are you guys researching on and doing there?
Yeah, so for example one of the contracts that we work on is with
911 emergency phone calls, so that's a very big industry as I'm sure we can all imagine and they have
thousands of calls a day
Monitoring these calls is a very difficult
Often they're not able to monitor more than 1% or less of the phone calls that actually come through for quality assurance
So what we're doing is we take all of the calls and we train a speech to text engine
So we take the audio transcripts and we the audio calls and we transcribe it to text
Okay, then once we have all the text we use natural language processing techniques to analyze what's going on emotion
sentiment keywords names
Addresses what's going on and we can use this to filter and flag potential dangerous calls
Maybe maybe somebody calls and says hey, I feel like I'm gonna kill myself right the telecommunicator
Okay, well go ahead, you know something outlandish and a call like that should be monitored and that telecommunicator should be flagged
So right the services we offer allow them to monitor their calls more efficiently and also improve training for example
We can identify target words
Maybe a telecommunicator uses a certain word and there's always a spike and maybe anger fear or something in the caller
And we can I let the agency know that these certain words are probably not best to be used for calls of this type
And so that's just one of the projects that we work on Wow and what
What is the purpose of this company? I mean like what what's your what's the goal?
Like what are you trying to develop like I understand like you guys are analyzing the calls the behavior of the people that are calling in
But like what is the like the long-term goal?
Sure, so I mean the people that come together. We would call ourselves a social entrepreneur as I suppose
We all have some sort of outlandish idealistic notions of good and trying to impose that on everybody else
Whether they agree with us or not as I think everybody actually does which we will probably get into when we start talking about what is intelligence and learning
And so we try to take on projects that are consistent with our visions and ambitions of trying to improve things for the economy to do
Good with machine learning
okay, so
essentially
With 9-1-1 calls down the road. You think that maybe humans won't be doing that or we've entertained those ideas
That's a bit further down the road
We are working on what we call a language model and the field of machine learning where we take all these transcripts and we have a certain
Algorithm or engine which looks at all the text and starts learning the intrinsic properties of what 9-1-1
Domain phone calls are like and we can actually synthesize new speech with language models like that and
Idealistically one would dream that down in the future. We could potentially
Replace telecommunicators with agents. That's obviously a very saucy topic
But yeah, the short-term goal is perhaps a training simulator
Okay to help the telecommunicators get used to what certain callers might sound like maybe we can simulate
Homicide calls or there even I mean you get you wouldn't believe the kind of things that we listen to in these 9-1-1 calls
Like sometimes we'll just get some old lady. She's like, well
My back hurts so I need an ambulance here immediately
Yeah, all kinds in there to help me get her chocolates. I'm sure you get it all
Yeah, so
So, I mean the short-term goal would be perhaps a training simulator and then long-term idealistic goals would be
Aiding and putting telecommunicators making them be a bit more automated, right?
So, I mean just going back to high school. You've obviously been
Extremely passionate about this for a long time. What what what was it that initially got you interested in all this stuff?
What made you what turns you into this person you are right now? Yeah, that's kind of a long and tumultuous road
But I can probably summer it a little bit more poetically than it probably was as we often do in media
You know so again being like this social entrepreneur
I've always had this again
Unreasonable desire to just do good for no other reason that it just makes me happy
And so when we're young and idealistic everybody's like oh world peace what a great novel idea that is and then as you grow up
It usually just becomes a laughing point because such a thing is the often nonsensical and imaginary
But when I was young I had convinced myself that
The reason we don't obtain peace is because individuals don't understand one another and when I mean understand
I don't mean in the sense of like you listen to me and you hear me
I mean in the sense of like you feel what I feel and in such in the sense that if I killed somebody
To truly understand me you would have to replay
The feelings decisions and the actions that I did such that you would have literally killed the person too
There's no deeper understanding than that
So my ambitions were I'm gonna go into neuroscience come up with a way to map memories and then replay them on other people's minds
So that they can learn other people's feelings again these big idealistic outlandish dreams. I love that shit
So that was where I started what in what time is that?
How are you when you start thinking like that that was probably middle school elementary school? No, that was probably a high school
I mean shortly after high school perhaps. Yeah, you know in high school
We don't really know who we are what we want we're trying to figure things out in life
Yeah, your friends teach you what life is your parents teach you what life is. Yeah, that's a messy minefield of disasters
Yeah, you used to be a boxer too, right?
Yeah another one of those young you're not doing that anymore. I do it from time to time. It's good to stay healthy
It's good to feel like you can protect yourself and your loved ones. Yeah
I used to coach FSU's boxing team. So really, oh, that's cool
Coach a little bit when I can you still do that you're doing that anymore or just dabbling it
I mean we used to own a boxing gym
So when we coached FSU's team we had the renegade boxing gym for a long time
In fact, I'm participating in a savage race on Sunday with one of the old trainers from renegade boxing
And our team name for the savage races, you know renegade boxing team. So that's awesome a little bit of nostalgia there
That'll be fun. Yeah, no doubt. I want to try one of those one day
We should try one. Yeah, I would die. I think we can make it. I
Think you guys got it. The warrior dash is the way to go right?
So check this out in the warrior dash. It's short muddy messy as barbed wire and fire
All right, you run through this thing you have a lot of fun. You laugh you get messy
You get dirty everybody's usually pretty fit when they go out there in the first place
Yeah, and then you cross the finish line and everybody scream in as soon as you cross the finish line
They hand you like a big chalice of beer
You get like a Viking helmet and a huge chicken leg and everybody else around you
Just like drenched and usually pretty fit and pretty often pretty sexy
Yeah, it's got adrenaline and beer and meat and it's pretty great experience. Oh, that sounds great. What's awesome?
That one's called the warrior dash. I'm checking that. Yeah, we definitely have to check that out. That sounds
Definitely checking it out that whole getting into the boxing thing started when I was this was actually a middle school thing
right so one of my big inspirations was Leonardo da Vinci and he is known as the Renaissance man, right?
And so I'm like, that's me. I want to be the modern-day Renaissance man
That's gonna be my big goal. And so I tried to do as much as I could, you know, I did combat
It took me to martial arts boxing. Yeah, yeah dance play music study languages
Sciences as much as I could to experience as much life as possible only to realize that in this overpopulated world of specialization
The notion of a modern-day Renaissance man is just doesn't really achievable any longer
The amount of time necessary to become a true master of any one discipline is a lifetime for sure
Yeah, so you try to do a bunch of different try to do it all. Yeah, it's good to experience a little bit of everything
Yeah, and so I might have
Psychologically convinced myself that instead of being a master of one thing. I'm a master of being mediocre at many things
That's all right. Yeah, right. I like it has master in the title. It's good enough. Oh
My god speaking of stretching yourself, I just tried not eating for three days and that was like the worst experience of my life
Good for you, man. I didn't I should have done it with other people who were doing the same thing, but I
Was around people that were just gorging every day, and it was basically like torturing myself
Yeah, I'll try it was like a healthy thing. I was trying to be healthy
You know what I mean trying to clean out my my body my cells and yeah
And gives you a little sympathy to people doing lint and Ramadan, etc. Yeah, right for sure
He was gonna go 10 days. I was like I give you about four maybe five tops
I made about three. I made it 72 hours here. Try that honestly
I have and not more than a few days ago
I was telling my girlfriend that I was gonna try and go seven days because seven just if eating too much crap and then
There's the eggnog and then there's the beer and then I get gassy and then I'm just miserable
And I just want to like cleanse myself
And so I've psychologically convinced myself that fasting is somehow the way to do that right?
I don't know. Yeah, it's like the rage right now everyone's talking. It's like the new thing to talk about and do
So you have done it before I have many days
Well, I did it back when I was in college one of my friends was doing the lent thing for yeah
Catholicism and I just did it with him for a week one week seven days
What do you do? I'll just drink lots of water. That's it. And yeah, but you can't be around other people that are eating, right?
You can if you have discipline. I did not have enough of it
So I often just avoided people when they were eating going out or something like that, but yeah, it was nice
I mean it kind of changes your the first few days. It's like, oh, I got this. This is great
You know, you have people who like to endure the the suffering a little bit
Yeah, endure the hardships, you know, yeah turmoil and then that turmoil starts to like starts to screw with your psychology a little bit
Everybody likes to think that they can endure hardships
But the reality is is that it actually becomes like an intellectual war inside your mind
Yeah, it's not as easy as just I'm not gonna do it because your mind is like convincing you that it's okay to do it
Well, it's unhealthy for me to not do it. I need to eat or else I'm gonna kill myself
And I don't want to kill myself. This is just a game, right?
You play these games with yourself and it becomes very difficult and I learned a lot when I did it
The hard thing for me was thinking about like having this many days left like I'm like I'm only
One-tenth of the way through I'm only, you know, two-thirds of the way through
I'm not even close to halfway through and I gotta go
Five more days like that made it impossible for me
But if I could have just thought about it like I'm just gonna go today without eating wake up the next day a brand new day
I'm just gonna go today without eating like if I could have done that every day
If I could have somehow tricked myself, I think they would have been way easier
Did you nail it?
There's a book by a Stephen King called the long walk. It's a great book
Basically just about enduring hardship. Yeah
And in that book I and from a friend of mine
I learned the value of very valuable lesson when you're like running marathons half marathons training
Yeah, is that and this just translates to everything in life is you just say just put one foot in front of the other
Right. It's all I gotta do. I just gotta put my foot one foot in front of the other
All right
I'm here now
I just gotta put one foot in front of the other and everything just becomes so easy then you you turn around you wake up
You're 40 and you know you've built great. Well, it's amazing man. It's amazing man
It's it really is the this the it's just scary to think about like having to take a thousand steps and try to like look at
The top of the mountain. I'm gonna have to get there. Holy shit. I'm gonna die. Yeah, it's that like one foot in front of the other
It's a lot easier. Thanks a lot easier
So what's up with this AI tell me a little bit about some stuff. I don't know AI what is world's coming to an end man
What is they say right super digital intelligence?
Yeah, so a lot of buzzwords float around they often get misinterpreted by a lot of people
Super intelligence digital intelligence is super intelligence digital medium
But in general super intelligence is just any form of intelligence, whatever that means will probably need to define in a moment
That soup surpasses humans and vast regard oftentimes
So
You know, let's actually take a moment and talk about what is intelligence, right?
Like just curious like what do you guys how would you guys define intelligence if somebody asked you? I
Would say it's just trial and error of failing or not failing and then kind of adding those up to
Knowing which path you're gonna take next right the saying like if a brand-new baby
Crawls off the couch and hits hits its face on the ground
The first time chances are the next time it's on the edge of the couch
It's not gonna keep crawling and fall off the couch, right?
So that's just like a level of knowledge
Maybe or that's one of the keywords that that is used in the machine learning definition. Okay. Yeah
You're sort of revolving around the same principle and there is no academic like a hundred percent definition or rather
There are many there's no accepted definition
But a common theme among all of them is there's two pieces to intelligence
One is a fundamental requirement to acquire
Information you have to somehow just ingest
Information and then two is you need to have some functional ability to act on that information and interact with the world that your
Intelligence is embedded in be a digital or biological
so
One thing that I like to sort of interpret that is by saying
The mind itself is embodied and then the body is embedded
So let's just take the notion of the brain for a moment in outside the brain
There's a complete universe of information
We have absolutely no idea what the vastness of that information is because our brain all of our senses are just making tiny
infinitesimal approximations to this vast amount of information that's out there as an analogy the
electromagnetic spectrum, you know the you know of radio waves x-rays gamma rays visible light ultraviolet, right?
You know all this whole spectrum
We can only see an absolutely teensy-weensy little sliver of that and there's so much more information out there
That's just literally not going into our brain
All right, so so what we say is that the little bit of information that does come into the brain though
We have to internalize it create an internal model of that information and then be able to interact and act on that knowledge in a
intelligent way and how
How do people determine how do you determine or how do people choose?
Or do they not choose what gets input into there?
What pieces of information are input into them? Is that just like they have a way is the people around it's just the right now
You're getting all kinds of information the the light that's hitting you the sounds that are coming into your ears the feel of the table
I mean every sensory medium is just ingesting information all day long hundred percent of the time you have no choice
Okay, yeah, well, I mean obviously you have an alleged perceived choice. We'll get into this whole free will thing probably eventually but
Allegedly you move yourself to another environment you change the stimulus that's presented to your system, but wow
Yeah, so I've always thought to myself never really talked about it
But like for instance conversations like this that get recorded and uploaded to the internet
Hundreds millions of hours every day. Is that not just fucking training some crazy AI?
That's gonna be able to download everything every bit of knowledge that humans have ever known in like two seconds
That's the fun thing to think about
I mean there's a couple of hurdles along the way the first and the most staggering is
The need and the requirement to aggregate that information, right?
So I mean as you know you get all these files you put them on computers you record from this microphone through the wire
You have it here locally, but as you say there's hundreds thousands of hours of video
Well for one entity to be able to or entity intelligent system to be able to ingest that knowledge
All of that information must somehow be available to it to ingest in the very precise medium that it needs for it to be
Ingested and that's a that's a very very difficult hurdle to overcome
right
Wow, yeah, so I mean for example, you might have heard about a lot of the
Facial recognition image recognition, etc. Yeah for the longest time these image recognition systems could only operate on images of a very specific resolution
They just didn't have an ability to generalize to different sized images
So now you say oh, well, there's all these pictures out there on the internet
Yeah, but only those that are exactly whatever
127 by
224 pixels can this one system ingest
Alright, and so over time we learned about this handicap and we generalize to different techniques that allow us to you know examine different resolution images, but you know
Basically transducing
Information that's out there be a digital of physics or whatever it is into some system and then
Aggregating it is a very very complicated system
Let alone then learning on that information and being able to interact on it
Just ingesting is a huge problem that we still are having a very hard time grappling with
Wow, and you in general
do you have more of an optimistic view of the future of this artificial intelligence or do you have more of a
Concerned view kind of like versus the Elon Musk's outlook, you know
He's very you know pessimistic about it very cautious about it
And then like people like Mark Zuckerberg who are like, you know, why would you be scared of it? This is great
This is helping us. Yeah, so there's nothing to be afraid of
yeah, there's there's an underlying theme in a lot of the way that I approach all these problems and that is
To truly understand something
Be neither for nor against it and then the truth will be laid bare before you
So I do the best I can to not really have
Overwhelmingly strong opinions about things because that just limits the amount of information that I'll be able to ingest and to understand for it
You know, there's some really outlandish examples that can sort of demonstrate this
you know, let's say that somebody's walking down the sidewalk and
they take you know a little knife and they stab an old lady and then
You know, what is that? Well, what happened? Is it good? Is it bad? Why?
You know, people like to analyze these things and try and throw labels on it
But the reality is is if you zoom out enough, it isn't either good nor bad. It it merely is it just happened
She's gonna without medical attention probably fall over and die
You know, this is just things but let's zoom out a moment and say oh well
What are some ways to interpret it?
Well, if I didn't know anything and I just thought happened from the other sidewalk
I'd be like this is horrible. How could this person do this? He took the life. Yeah, an old lady
But little did I know there was information
Unavailable to me that she had bombs on our chest and was about to blow up the whole city and some guy just saved hundreds and thousands of lives
Okay, right. I see see how the ability to interpret this information is just you know
Intrinsically subjective and that becomes very uncomfortable for a lot of people
So when I think about the questions, you know about is it good or is it bad?
I think it's both and it's neither depending on certain assumptions that people have about what is essentially right or wrong
You can make an objective framework and then start arguing. Well, this is good or this is bad
But if you change those assumptions now you have a different objective framework and now you can argue whether it's good or bad there
So I try to be flexible to entertain different people's opinions about what is right or wrong and then we can really explore the possibilities
Right. I mean, I don't really have it. I just kind of like I don't have an opinion myself
I don't really know enough about it, but I assume like you know
Substantially more than the average person does about the future. Sure. That's a good question
I mean, you know have any kind of emotional like like reaction to it. I mean, of course I had emotions
I'm not a cyborg just making sure
I'm gonna have to ask your girlfriend to confirm
We're gonna create a machine that scans your face and figures out if you are a cyborg
But we didn't forest hasn't developed that yet for us
but
I mean no no no feelings towards, you know
What could happen what what may not happen like you're not weighing towards one or the other like
What are your what are your thoughts? It's a great question, and if I'm I'll just be entirely honest
I feel all of them, right? I mean, yeah, and I do the best I can as a scientist to sort of
Take in the feeling that I feel analyze why I feel it look at the repercussions of that feeling
Then I take another feeling look at these and analyze it and try and get a whole picture, you know
For example, I'm excited AI is an amazing phenomenon
I mean how it helps us under to understand ourselves at such a deeper level is very difficult to communicate to
People who haven't really been immersed in it for a long time, you know as Neil deGrasse Tyson says like
Scientifically literate people just see the world differently a lot would take that a step further and say machine learning or artificial intelligence
Literate people just see themselves and humans differently, so that's an exciting thing
You know we might be able to share this thing these things we discover
But of course everybody has many fears in sufficiently advanced technologies indistinguishable from magic and that warrants fear and caution
Yeah, and you know we need to be careful and make sure that we have a lot of checks and balances to make sure that things
Don't get out of control and we can talk about those things, right? You're very saucy topics. Yeah for sure
Yeah, I feel like one day it's just gonna be just like the Terminator and
Everything is gonna just be robots and we're all gone. Let's do a thought experiment
Yeah, so let's say that I am an ardent environmentalist and I love the earth more than anything
Okay, that's all I want so again, you know we talk about these values my objective values are the preservation of nature and in the earth
Mm-hmm, so I developed some amazing artificial intelligence system that's gonna solve all the world's problems global war mates
Gonna tell me how to fix it and tell me what to do, okay?
And this thing starts learning it collects all this data learns about people and it decides well
I think the earth would be a lot better if we just got rid of all the people right so it goes and does that
So the question is is that good or is it which it should right?
That's what it was supposed to do and the person who is environment is interested in the environment
I should theoretically say well
This is consistent with my values and it's achieving my goals and my ambitions
So that's that's the problem with right and wrong is it's only subject
It's only relative to your subjective value system
And so people talk about well if what if robots come and take over and kill all the planets
Well or all the all the people will provided that we are all interested in self-preservation. That's an awful thing
You know clearly right I happen to agree. I'm I like living living is good. Yeah, it's not as good
so, you know, I'm
On that bandwagon as well, but it's just not as easy as something. It's quite as easy as is often advertised no
It's definitely very complex. I
Mean the same thing with with self-driving cars, right like with how do you train fun like the values like how the car has to
Avoid hitting something getting into a car accident like I think force was telling me that
One of the news I think it was Tesla or someone they were they were saying that they were training the cars to avoid
Primarily avoid hitting other cars meaning that if it had the car has to decide between hitting another car or hitting a pedestrian
Yeah, how do you?
How do you do that? How does a human do that?
right and
The answer is that there is no answer once again
And this is the thing that everybody hates and this is what I love about it so much because it makes us question these very important things
that we all take for granted humans have an
amazing
Inclination to just be enamored with our own ideas and to just reaffirm our own convictions and
Something like this just forces us out of our comfort zone makes us ask these really tough questions
Yeah, how do you give a machine a robot?
Morals you can't do that, right? I mean you have to you have to give them
Every possible angle
It's a very difficult question
I'm gonna start off with an example of perhaps why and then talk about just a potential resolution
Which is obviously not an answer. There's no one, but I'm just gonna give a stab at it
All right, so for example one of the biggest handicaps that we've been facing in the self-driving car things is that the cars
Are good. They're too good in fact
the
Many of the accidents that have been taking places with self-driving cars are just slow-speed rear-end fender benders
Why do you think that is?
Because the self-driving cars don't break the law and so they don't speed right while humans on the other hand do
And so the self-driving cars forced to make a decision
I need to merge onto this interstate, but all the cars are flying by me at 75 and I'm not gonna go faster than 65
How do I do it safely and many times it can't and so there is the there's these big issues that it's faced with is
How do you deal with as soon as you tell the car?
Well, the only way to navigate that safely is to break the law, right? Where does that stop?
Right, right, so so there it is you got to ask yourself
To really understand
When it's okay is you have to decide when it's okay to break the law
So an analogy that I like to give for this is something that again a lot of people aren't really a fan of but
Laws are more like guidelines, right? It's not something that we should follow for the sake of the law
It's more like here's a description of the shared values and the shared fiction of the people that I have chosen to voluntarily
Live with so if I'm gonna live with these people
I have a responsibility to respect the shared value system of these people that being said
It's just a suggestion. I'm not gonna stop at a stop sign if I'm being chased by zombies, right?
It's not like this hard and fast law that you just absolutely cannot break, right?
So what you what you would want to say is how do we teach AI morals?
You give it the same value system as the average people in your society because that is what we've defined in
General as what's right or right and wrong, right?
Yeah, you can see the problems with that right away, right is there's a lot of sure who have some
convictions about
Certain myths because not myths as soon as a self-driving car runs over an old lady
They're gonna try to say no more self-driving cars. We got a regular. We gotta ban the self-driving cars. They're killing old ladies now, but
Human would have done the same thing potentially or you look at the statistics and you find that humans are killing far more people than
Self-driving cars are right right on on average like you know per the volume
I mean obviously for sure there's far more people driving than cars
So you don't look at that stick you want to look at the percentage of cars that are actually hitting
People and self-driving cars so far have been phenomenal. They're too good is the problem
So we have to somehow teach them to be worse to be better teach him to break the law, right?
Just like we do yeah, just like we do teach him to be as broken as we are
Wow, man, that's that's it's crazy how far the same scum indeed
Have you do you have one of those cars? No, I don't not yet once it gets a little more mainstream. You want one though?
Do I want one? I don't know. I like motorcycles. Oh, yeah, me too. I want to get a motorcycle
Yeah, I've been saving up for a motorcycle. What do you got? I have a 2015 Yamaha. I have zero seven
Looking like Harley's fast bikes. Yeah, it's got like those yellow candied rims. Oh, yeah, I don't know why I bought it
It's really not my style. I'm often times more conservative, but maybe it's a midlife crisis
I don't know what I'm gonna
Pull up to the campus on your on your
Popping wheelie pop in a wheelie through the parking lot. I can see yeah, it's a little professor Kroc is here
Bitches I remember back in high school. I had I had a 1987 Corvette coupe
That's some of high school and there was
Good old days, man
You remember the intersection where there's the gas station right across from the parking lot that a little intersection
Okay, yeah, yeah, of course everybody knows you got to go to the Circle K after school always
Yeah, I pulled out there, you know
Because everybody from school is like at that intersection or at Circle K or at the corn
So that's we're just that's what life happens. You want to be noticed you got to be there right there
So I was like, hey, I'm gonna be noticed and so I rolled down my window instead of blaring
What was it give me if you will give me five?
Doing some donuts in the middle of the intersection. Oh, yeah, such a hoople head. I don't know what I was thinking
But you're young living life. I got a reckless driving ticket. So you did from that. Yeah, that pay that didn't work out
I got what I deserved, of course, but it was still a good memory. Honestly, I'm probably still do it again
That's awesome. You got to break the law sometimes and live life a little bit. Yeah
Yeah, the self-driver car and it would have never did that. No
Turn the volume down
Wow, man, that's incredible
What about have you have you?
dabbled in like video games like virtual reality and and like
Simulated reality anything like that or yeah, it's interesting you mentioned that so the lab that I work in at Florida State University
Used to be called the visualization laboratory. Uh-huh is run by doctor
It was run by Gordon or dr. Gordon Earl Ebacher. Who's my advisor. He's the chairman of the Department of Scientific Computing
He teaches the introduction to game and simulator design course. Wow
So in the visualization lab, we have all kinds of tools. We've got the Oculus Rift
We got the HoloLens. We got the the Neuron the mobile trackers. We got we got all kinds of good stuff. Wow
Yeah, have you ever played fortnight fortnight?
No, but I watched your podcast with one of the world's best for fortnight players. Yeah, T foo. Yeah, how cool is that?
He's a local kid. No way from right here
Landish is that he's a local kid 17 year old millionaire
Yeah, it's incredible short since it's insane man. That's a that's that's what we were talking about earlier
You'd be a renaissance man. Are you get extremely fucking good at something that's something like that and and all those different
Paths or neither is more right wrong than the other
It's just a different life that kind of sadly for me
I'm often sort of met with sadness that really all the facets of life that I'm just never gonna experience, right?
Yeah, like I'm never gonna be a guy who just like surfs on the beaches of Hawaii
I won't know like the emotional psychological phenomena that sort of overcomes you when that's that's who you are and I'm never gonna be a
devout religious person who goes and just preaches what he believes in 100%
I mean, there's so much life that I'm just never gonna get to experience and when you think of that
It's kind of sad sometimes. Why won't you to experience it? You can go surf in Hawaii
Yeah, but I mean what I mean is like a lifetime of that if I go do it a lifetime of it
Yeah, so for I mean so for example, have you traveled before of course
I mean to international or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you go and you meet these people and you see what it's like
And it's cool and all right and you come back and you're like, oh my god
That was the best thing. Yeah, but we really have no idea
Right, we have such a short and this is where machine learning comes in again, right?
We have a short exposure to information and that allows us to create a very ill-informed
What we call prior opinion about what it's actually like because we're trying to take this information and
reconcile it with our world view that we learned over here with our Western values and
So we're taking what we think they're experiencing and fitting it into what we understand life to be
But if you were over there and you were raised there you would see life so much differently
It's just it's very hard to to describe
I mean the epitome of it is is when you think about in a religions, right?
We all have all humans come from the same cast 99.98 something percent similar DNA
Yet just in the right environment the right circumstances and the right exposure
You can be raised to be you know Buddhist Catholic
Jew you know Jewish will all these different religions that are just exposed to you from a very young age
And it just totally changes your world view. Yeah, so there's just infinitely many lives that we're never gonna be able to experience
This is what we've got and we just make the best of it
But right sometimes it's sad to just think about what we'll never see but do you think we live different lives like in different dimensions like
What do you are you really? Are we in a simulation?
You know interestingly the answer to both of those questions is the same
There does not exist enough evidence either way to actually make a concrete decision
We have to do what most people do which is what we have to do as a human
And that's just choose to believe based on what's consistent with our values and what we've been taught and what we've been exposed to
Right, so are we in a simulation? Maybe maybe not
Life would be the same whether we were whether we weren't interestingly and am I religious?
I don't think I'm religious. I'd say that I don't really have enough evidence either way
You know some people are like devout atheists. I think it's oftentimes, you know, maybe as
Dangerous to say that there is no God as it is to say that there is one because nobody can actually prove it either way
They just choose to believe it because it's consistent with their values in their world view, right?
And you I mean do you often think overthink to the point where you are like wow?
I should like you were saying before you like I wish I could have you know
Spend my life surfing on the beaches of Hawaii or
Climbing Machu Picchu or doing this and that I mean instead of having like that versus like having like the narrow-minded like the narrow
Tunnel vision of just going down one path and sticking to it like similar to like the video game kid
Yeah, obviously never tried anything it do anything else. Maybe he thought about it, but
Just stuck down one path from when you were a young kid when you got older
Got lucky hit the jackpot people say all that kid's so lucky or whatever
But like someone like you who was blessed and cursed to be so frickin smart that you think about all these different scenarios
That you could have done is that does that make you kind of like is that what you said?
It makes you sad. Does that make you sad sometimes sometimes, but you know as I said a little earlier
I try to be consistent with this worldview and that is that it's neither right nor wrong
I don't regret it. This is my choice. That was his choice if I would have lived a lifelike
Well choice, so we don't have too much of a choice
We're just sort of born where we're born
Yeah, and then we like to have pride in that as if we somehow had choice over our nation of birth or something like that
but you know we
We live the life we live when we make the best of it
You acknowledge the lives of others try and internalize it as much as you can see their worldview
But we can't unless I finished my invention and make that mind machine where we can put experiences in different people's minds
I think there's an episode of black mirror. That's like that. Yeah, they're for sure
Have you watched that show? I've seen some of it. Yeah, where they have a little chip or something, right?
And you could see people's like yeah memories. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's also one in hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy
They got that gun at the end remember
I think that was the answer to the secret of life or something like that and it was just
Hikers guided the galaxy. Yeah, I remember the movie, but I don't remember what the what the raccoon and shit. No, no, that's a
Guardian that's a guardian of the galaxy. Oh, what was it by the way? Yeah, that's what I was thinking
What was the other one called hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy? Yeah, and then at the very end there's the gun
I don't remember what it's called
But they make a joke out of it
But basically it's like now men know what women are thinking because you know the women shoots you and then suddenly you know what she's thinking
It's sort of a is that sort of how your invention will work, you know, I thought a lot about it and it's
There's a lot of like really dangerous pitfalls to go into and you know, not only just
Philosophical but also, you know
Physiological like the neuroscience behind it, you know as I started studying neuroscience over the years
I worked at the Max Planck, Florida Institute for Neuroscience for many years and learned a lot about how all this stuff works
And it's just we are so incredibly far away from something like that. Really? Yeah
Would it be more of a gun or it'd be more of like a
Electric chair you sit in and like a thing goes over your head and you strap into it. What would it look like in your mind?
Yeah, I mean and when I dreamed it up in my nonsensical
You know ideas do
It would be something akin to like a headset that uses something like, you know
Magnetic fields to stimulate certain regions and certain neural pathways, but the problem is the following is that
Every human being can be presented with the exact same stimulus
Theoretically which they can't right because just different angles and everything but just theoretically they're presented with the exact same stimulus
And they'll represent that stimulus
Internally in completely different ways
All right, so the idea of me somehow mapping the experience that you had
Learning it and then somehow making someone else experience it
I would have to know their entire mapping of their brain and somehow which neural pathways and spatial temporal patterns
Represented different feelings and experiences and activate them in some crazy order. I mean, it's a it's really just a fairy tale right now
But you know, you got a dream about this stuff sometimes to work towards the fun stuff. Yeah, exactly. I was gonna say that
It's crazy. It's so deep
My mind is being blown every like 15 seconds
Yeah, I'm trying to follow along people want to try to figure out how to live longer and live forever
Yeah, right, so I'm sure there's people out there researching and all that stuff and I can only imagine how far it's really gone already
You know, do you think we're that far out from something like that?
Well, there's there's I guess two main approaches to something like that
You know at least from what people like to talk about one is the notion of just like putting your brain into something else
And that's only a good idea in the short term because the brain is still biological and physiological
And that will decay over time as well
So it's not like you just keep putting your brain into a new body
It's just it's right the brain is a hunk of meat also, right? Yeah, it's gonna die just like everything else, right?
And where are we how far away away from that?
I think very recently there was this very
Controversial research that or operation that somebody's been trying to take place where they're gonna transplant one guy's head onto another body
Oh, yeah, I heard about that. Yeah, I don't think it has happened yet
And I don't really know how much truth there is behind something like that
But that would be an example of where you're not necessarily putting somebody's brain
Into another body, but you're putting someone's head onto another body
And so I really don't know anything about medicine so I can't speculate on that
But yeah, you know, you just wanted to know how reasonable it is it that's you know
That's where that's at but the other option is uploading the brain into a digital medium
Where it should allegedly persist well beyond the the constraints of the end of the biological system
Then there's no there's no meat carcass that you have to deal with as you're just digital, right? Yes. Yes
Well, uh, well described
That meat bag was that what they call it the meat bags that we're trapped in for our whole lives
Yeah, we're incredibly far away from anything like that even being remotely possible. Really? Yeah
Um, yeah, I mean what we can do is
measure some
Patterns and neural pathways and then like make some, you know
Very very weak predictions about what somebody's thinking or doing before they do it based off of, you know patterns that are taking place
For example, there was another experiment where
They had two, uh, I don't know if I'm going to cite this correctly, but they had two mice or rats hamsters
something like that on on very far away from one another opposite sides of the planet for all I know and
There there was an
an electrode in the brain of one and it was navigating a maze
And while it was navigating the maze it was sending the signals that it was experiencing in its brain to the other
Mouse rat hamster wherever it was, but that one was not traveling through the maze and the goal was to find some cheese
So the first one, you know got stuck and then eventually found some cheese
And then they just let the other one loose in the exact same maze just duplicated and it went straight to the cheese
So there is so he didn't hit any of the roadblocks along the way because he learned the the the route based off of the neural
Activity that was going on in his counterpart. Yeah, so how what that's something they implant into these rats. What?
How does that work?
Yeah, that's a it's a good question. I mean so the fundamental
premise of all this is that you're measuring neural activity, right?
So you have what's called an electrode that gets very close to a soma cell body
Sometimes it punctures it. Maybe it's in, you know, the axon of the dendrite to some part of the neuron itself
And then as that neuron activates this electrode measures the voltage changes that's taking place
This is something physical like you could touch when you say the electrode they put it that's something like
Yep physical. Yes, they put in there. Okay, exactly. They shoot like a syringe in there into their head or something
Or what a microchip. Yeah some time. I mean, there's a lot of different techniques
But the general premise is always the following get access to the brain stick a needle in it
Okay, and so I mean whether that needle punctures the cell or it's just right next to it and measuring small voltage fluctuations
You know just near the periphery of the cell body or whether it's actually inside the cell body all modifies the results
You know you have to clean up and denoise that stuff
But that's the idea of recording the activity of one brain
And then the idea of then sort of imposing that on the brain of another
I don't know the science behind how that was done. So I'll do they do they take it out of the first
Whatever the rat or whatever it is and put it in the next one or they have one
They just record it right so every time the neuron fires and then they just upload or just digitally
It's just digitally. So it's basically an electrical current. They're just measuring voltage changes and so each one has one
It transfers to not all the neurons. Obviously that'd be an impossible. There's yeah, yeah
Way too many neurons. There's more neurons in the brain than there are
I don't know trees and one of the largest forests in the world. I mean, it's it's absurd
But you that's a fucking crazy. Yeah, that's crazy to think about it's it's pretty exciting
It's exciting. Yeah, it's fascinating to me. I'm torn man. I mean I get excited about it sometimes
I can empathize with the fears and I don't feel like either way is right or wrong
And I think we would be better off sort of embracing both and finding a compromise
You know finds the best for everyone, but what do I know?
What do you think about like
Plasticity this plasticity does that does that mean that you can basically
Retrain your brain to do things that
It was like opposite of what it was originally trained to do like when you were developed as a young kid
Like when your brain develops when you're young and you learn like you were said like you have certain pathways in your brain
And you have a certain map of the way you see and the way you take take an input, right?
This plasticity does that is that mean that you're able to change that stuff?
Like for instance, you're able to change the way that you interact with
All the elements and everything in the world to like explain that to me like I never really understood what it was
Okay, I was right. Yeah, you nailed it right on the bug man. You missed your calling as a neuroscientist
I knew I had something. I knew I had something in me right. I met you in high school. It is man. So
Blast now you're talking my language like this is sort of the core of my research that that I'm working on and this revolves around the concept of
representation learning, right? Okay, so
The very first thing that happens as I said is that information needs to be
ingested, you know, you get some electromagnetic wave of a photon it hits
You know a cell a photoreceptive cell in the back of your retina
That wave gets transduced into electrical signal, which then passes through some other cells and then goes to the optical nerve to the back of the brain
Okay, so how does this wave get represented internally? Like what's going on with that?
Well, the idea behind plasticity is that you have one neuron
This is the soma the cell body
You have what's called the axon, which is where it sends signals down the down the line
And you have what is called the dendrites where it aggregates all the information from everything that it's listening to
So what plasticity says is that one of the dendrites for example
If it is listening to activity from another neuron say from this, you know, electromagnetic wave that it just received that it just experienced
The the the strength between these two is able to change
Right. And so what does that mean and how is that useful?
Well, what that means is that as we start seeing sensory information over and over and over again
Internally in the brain our ability to process it starts getting accustomed to that sensory input and we start recognizing that sensory input
And we start finding patterns in that sensory input and this is one of the anticipating it, right? Anticipating it exactly
This is one of the key observations behind, you know, one of the deepest parts of machine learning in my opinion
Uh, which is representation learning. And so here's the example for that
Let's say that I showed you a bicycle and I said
Danny, what is this thing? What would you say?
That's the thing you sit on and you do wheelies on there you go from
Get to school on it. There you go. You might say it's a bicycle, right? And then I would go
How do you know it's a bicycle?
And then you'd say
Because it has two wheels and handlebars
Well, the motorcycle has two wheels and handlebars and a motor. So it's a motor bicycle. There you go
All right, so the the idea is though is that we can keep asking these questions and they get more and more refined as to
Why do we call this thing what it is start with maybe a coffee mug? There's another example
Okay, what is this? It's a coffee mug, right? How do you know? Well, it has a handle. Well, so does a beer mug
Right. Well, it's short. Okay. Well, so is a teacup
Oh, well, you just keep asking these questions and it turns out that they're these very very very subtle features
Of things that allow us to distinguish and disambiguate between them
And so the question is
How do we represent those features internally?
And that's an active area of research machine learning artificial intelligence
I have a hypothesis that it revolves around some of the fundamental concepts
Old neuroscience that's sort of been forgotten in modern-day research, which is called
Hebbian plasticity and so we can show that locally all these individual neurons that are making these local
Hebbian Hebbian. Yeah. Hebbian plasticity. Donald Hebb. Okay. He's the guy. He's the guy who did it. Okay. Yeah
He's like, hey neurons that fire together wire together. That's me, baby
Yeah, that's his big catchphrase and so we call it Hebbian plasticity
and uh
Yeah, so the idea is that all of these neurons locally start changing their behavior
Completely ignorant of everything else that's going on around them. And somehow, uh, which I'm trying to show in my research
We get a larger aggregate order that arises from this local activity and the example that I like to give to this is uh humans
We all just exist on our own and we're all independent and selfish and we make decisions on our own self-interest
Yet somehow we have these magnificent shared fictions like corporations and religions and governments and nations and we just
create these amazing
Concepts all from our just individual needs a spontaneous order that arises chaotically. It's very beautiful and
We see this in nature all of the time and I contend that
The brain does the same thing
I'm gonna have to re-watch this like 10 15 times over to catch everything. Oh, that's not good. Yeah
You gotta I need to learn to say it
More clearly. So if I say something that's not clear, you know, give me a hard time about it because it's my job
No, it's not you. It's just so many different words that are not normally in my vocabulary
Stuff that I listen to every day, but I mean, it's not your fault. You're accustomed to it. It's not it's the plasticity
But I like it because I'm learning I'm definitely learning picking up little gems along the way for sure
Well, I gotta go on a little diet tribe now that you just mentioned that but you know
When you were saying I'm using a bunch of little terms that you don't understand and it's your fault
Here's the reality, right? Is that
Communication is another one of these spontaneous order things and it is just
Fascinating like let's just take a moment and just appreciate the majesty of communication. Okay
Internally in this just massive net of you know, so many neurons
Um, I have some concept or some idea somehow mysteriously
And then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna somehow turn this signal into a pattern of neural activity that
Oscillates the vocal cords in my throat that's gonna make slight little pressure changes and the molecules in the air
These are then gonna travel to you and move little hairs in your ears
Which is then gonna
Create a neural signal which goes to a certain part in the brain
Where you then interpret the language and then somehow put all these words together and represent that idea
So I'm literally taking some crazy idea in my brain
Transducing it into just waves through the air and then recreating it in your brain like that's just phenomenal, right?
But which makes me
Do the same thing create things that go on my face which project back into your eyeballs and make you feel a different kind of way
And it just goes back and forth, right? Dude, that's you hit on a very important thing and that's feedback during communication
Some people there's a lot of psychological disorders where they just don't have that capacity
Where they just like talk and they're aren't even aware of what people are
How they're interpreting what they say, but to what you said, right?
Think about how much, you know, just sheer majesty goes into the ability of me to communicate some idea to you, right?
The fact that I'm taking the effort to do that means
That I am trying to put my idea from my brain into yours
If I which means I have the responsibility to choose all of the words and to communicate the idea from your prior and your
Perspective as best as possible
It's just foolish of me to just speak in my own world in my own little vacuum chamber and expect you to understand me, right?
So I have a responsibility to communicate as effectively and carefully as possible. Otherwise. Why am I even talking?
I just want to hear myself talk. That's that's not that's not someone I want. I think a lot of people like to do
I know a few people who like to do that. Yeah, yeah
Normal podcast episodes. No, I think you're nailing it pretty good
I mean you got to keep it on a certain level, but it's just my brain's working at super fast speeds right now to retain all this information
He's a four-cylinder. Yeah, I'm running on fumes right now
It's funny, man. There's like there's a guy that that we do a show I do a show with on on our youtube channel, right?
He's a real estate dude big fat new york jew
And he's worth hundreds of millions of dollars one of the richest dudes I've ever met
And you considered him really fucking successful, right?
Sure, I've fallen I've fallen him around for the past six years documenting
You know here and there what he does making little vignettes and putting them on youtube and people fucking love it people just go crazy over
They're fascinated with it man this big and he is no offense to ben if you're watching this
He'll never watch it. He never watched any of our videos if he is literally
Not not that ignorance is a bad thing. I don't think ignorance is a bad thing
But he is the most one of the most ignorant narrow-minded mother fuckers I've ever met but he's so fucking rich and successful
at real estate
and and people think that his opinions are so
They they've put his opinions so high above everybody else just because of that one fact that he's successful in real estate
Yeah, there's a lot of interesting things that you brought up there
I mean the first one is something that I'm rather passionate about
trying to oppose and that's the
the far too commonly
Committed fallacy, which is the appeal to authority
So as you said so many people just respect what he says as if he has some sort of an authority figure
Knows what's right and what's wrong, and that's one of the lowest forms of reasoning, right?
I mean there's there's no real internal judgment that's being made. They're not really
Reconciling his information with their own internal model. They're just like taking it as as as truth
And far too many humans in my opinion do that and I think we as a society would
Benefit if more people took a bit more responsibility and discipline for what they consider to be
True or not true, right?
And the other thing that's really interesting is
Yeah, he's a big obnoxious kind of guy and honestly, that's great
And the reason is is because we need all kinds the whole world needs all kinds
And there's one thing that's you know, we've learned in science and that's the vast majority of things on average behave
What we behave as what we call like a Gaussian distribution and basically
Just looks like a little bell and what that means is the majority of people are right here in the middle
And it's high because that's where all the people are and as you taper off to the other ends
There's fewer and fewer people out there
But if those people weren't there this thing wouldn't be a Gaussian and it would start to become very very narrow
and it would start to become very very
Pointy and everybody would be all the same the same and the problem when everybody's the same is that people can't change
right and so
We intrinsically need people like that to adapt and grow and
And I think as long as we have a tolerant mindset as we said before nobody's right or wrong
We observe reconcile with our world model and make the best of it. You know, so it sounds like an interesting guy
And I'd probably enjoy chair. Yeah, check them out. Yeah, man. We should have had him out here tonight
It's an interesting thing like like we were talking about before though the communication part of it
like he the guy's a really good communicator and and and being able to
Being able to you know influence people and make them think a certain way even though it may not be true
Well, let's talk about that for a moment. So at first you said he's very brash and he says what he wants
And people just listen to him because of his uh his power and his money right does he actually
Observe who he's communicating to and communicate in a way effective for them to understand or just use his platform
And his power to convince people he definitely conforms to who he's communicating to then indeed. He sounds like a very good communicator
Yeah, and and I mean it's
It's yeah, it just blows my mind. I mean, it's a lot. It's a very similar to
How like
Donald trump can communicate to people how he can communicate to all the people who voted for him
You know, he knows how to communicate to his audience, you know what I mean to get what he wants
All right, and and this guy can do the same thing
You know depending on who he's talking to like like he can be whoever he wants whatever he wants
Just sounds like uh
An edge case sociopath. Yeah. Yeah, and it's to get what he wants
You know, I mean whether it's buying a car or a house. He's going to talk to that person
He's going to get that he's going to get what he wants for the price that he wants
Yeah, you know when he goes to get a car
He's going to beat the guy up and the guy's not going to want to sell it for a price
But at the end of the beating the ear beating this guy receives he will get the car at the price he wants it
It's interesting like that's interesting social media too man like the communication through social media people can
People can see something and take it their own way and put their own put their own story behind it
And it makes them feel a certain kind of way and it may not be the truth
Yeah
Like we were talking about right before right before we started recording
Yeah, we were talking about that a little bit early about social media in the comments and what did you say you did with that?
Yeah, so it's it's pretty um
It's pretty devastating to our social structure and and our ability to communicate with one another
On a lot of ways it also has many strengths as everything does to unilaterally label anything as good or bad as often
Evidence that somebody doesn't really know exactly what they're talking about but
From the perspective of you know listening to individuals and respecting them
It's a pretty terrible medium and it's causing a lot of problems and the reason is
It's pretty simple
Well, nothing's really simple
Um
But it's because there's no repercussions for their actions and it really comes down to what you were saying before
Um, when I say something to you, I see your face and I get feedback from what I say and that tempers
What I'm going to say it modifies
The next words that I'm going to choose etc
Like that communication medium that we have from face-to-face interaction is very very very different
Than me just having my own self-righteous thoughts and just
You know slamming my hands around like a monkey trying to vomit my my half-thought ideas, right?
So, um, it's teaching us very bad communication skills. You know as I demonstrated earlier
I'm kind of perhaps illogically enamored with the notion of communication and you know, the social media is not really, um
At least in the human level not a very good
medium for us to communicate but
Again, there's all kinds of other very interesting things that it's enabled us to do for example
We have been able to observe trends in data based off of certain people from certain regions and they say certain things
Yeah, maybe they're saying completely, you know
Angry aggressive vitriol and they're just like spewing stuff
But we can still find passions and truths and opinions and we can look at these all globally locally regionally
And we can start understanding better a lot of the social problems that we've been facing
You know, unfortunately, we have a lot of issues with gender and race, etc
And we can explore these a lot better with the medium of social social media. So
It's it's got to strengthen those weaknesses, of course as everything does. Yeah
I mean the commenters on these videos that are can be can be pretty brutal. These people are pretty ruthless
Yeah, I mean unfortunately, I think in the long run that usually just looks what looks bad on them
But I mean the reality is I mean maybe 10 people read their comments and then right nobody cares anymore because everybody knows
There's just no real there's no real information or knowledge in the comments nowadays
Right and so for those of you who are thinking about just writing nonsense
Please take a little more responsibility in your year and communicating your ideas. Yeah, they're real
Man, it's getting hot in here. Let me turn
What happened to that? I think force is digitally turning the ac up because I see keep seeing it
Come on and it goes up like one degree one degree
And I think he's at home watching us
Turning the ac up will turn the heat on us. He's pranking us. I think so
I keep seeing that thing pop up and get hotter. I like him
Yeah, he's funny. He got really really butthurt. He was on one of the first not one of the first
But he was a few podcasts ago. He was he was talking to a buddy jack a friend of mine who um
was he was very active on youtube about trying to
Educate people on like the red tide going on in florida. Like basically he was being very vocal and
talking a lot about like the politics behind the people that were
We're responsible for creating the cause and effect of red tide with like the sugar cane
the sugar cane fields and all the
You know all the toxins and all the pesticides going into
Lake Okeechobee and causing the red tide then we started getting into like eating and dieting and forest
Is like he doesn't know anything about that and forest would be like why why when I go to mcdonald's and veganism
And yeah, I mean he's like, well, you got to eat healthy, you know jack
He's like you got to eat healthy. You got to care about the environment and forest is you know, he's like, wow
I could it's cheaper to buy a dollar cheeseburger for a dollar and save money and that makes me happy
And then people on the comments were just basically
Crucified for us and they went on him. He won't come on the podcast anymore. Thanks guys
Well, that's unfortunate and I'll be honest. I think that's one of the problems with social media is
People get very very passionate about their ideas as I shared before. I mean humans have this incredible inclination
We just love our own ideas. Yeah, and especially from the safety of our own laptop in our home
Right, we are we are the authority of all that is knowledge, right? No consequences
But the reality is is that forest isn't isn't entirely wrong, right? And the problem is is that
Here's a great example. Um
That i'm a fan that's uh, I don't remember his name. There's a great economist who who writes about this stuff all the time
And here's the example. So let's say that there's a park
And it's a beautiful park and people like to walk through it
Okay, so right now our society has this very large leaning towards preserving society
I'm sorry preserving nature and parks and the environment. So we all have a very strong bias towards environmentalism
Okay, now let's say
Somebody else comes along and he says actually, you know what?
I'd like to knock down this park and put a parking garage on here so that I can park my car
Right, and then we go. Well, we have a decision to make here
We have somebody who wants to take down the park and put a parking garage
And somebody who wants to just enjoy the beauty of nature and walk through the park
And here's the problem is once again, we talked about earlier. There's no there's no notion of like an intrinsic right or wrong
And so the problem is is that oftentimes people from that environmental perspective feel as though they have like a moral high ground
Where they say no preserving nature is the right thing to do
But you ask why why is it the right thing to do? You just choose that it's the right thing to do because it makes you feel good
Well, I want to save the earth. But why well because it's fulfilling. Well, the reality is the following
This person's desire to take down the park and put a parking garage is equally as valid as the individual who wants to preserve the parking
Who wants to preserve the park?
And so here's where the the the real truth comes from is the person who wants to preserve the park says well
You can't take down the park because that is irreversible
Once you take it down you can never get it back and they're true
They're right there and there's a lot of truth behind that
However, they overlook the fact that there's something else that is equally irreversible and that is time
Every single day that this person does not get to build their parking garage
They're going to have a day of convenience taken away from them. We have this sort of internal desire to say oh
Well, you want convenience over me wanting to save the earth. So you're wrong and I'm right
There's no reason for that. That's just an opinion once again
When the right philosophy would be the following both people are equally right
So what we should do is build some environmentally sustainable parking garage or something that satisfies everybody
Instead of just being polarized and bickering coming from some moral high ground
We just realize that everyone's right and try and find a medium that satisfies everyone's desires. It's very easy
Right. You look at it from that perspective at least
But wouldn't you say that the person that wanted the park is trying to look out for the earth?
That's that's in everyone's
That's in everybody's interest right because everyone lives on the earth and we want the earth to last longer and we all want to
Live longer, right? Isn't that something that's a common value everyone wants to live longer and everyone wants the earth to be around
Or maybe are you arguing that this person doesn't care about the earth as far as their life?
Yeah, I would argue I mean there's it's complicated. Yeah, there's there's two things
I mean one the notion of self-preservation is once again just an intrinsic desire
It isn't right or wrong as I said before somebody wants environmentalism. It turns out that saving the earth
Is is best done by killing everybody. Well, where do you draw the line? Right? So true
right, so I mean
You bring up a good point. I mean it is pretty complicated
But I think that as long as we're able to find a happy medium where everybody is cognizant of the desires and wants of everyone else
And as long as we realize that deep down
Whatever we think or we feel is not intrinsically right or wrong
It just builds us up to be naturally tolerant of others and I like to sort of I'm going to re-emphasize the significance of that
Was just an example. Okay. The difference between
being sort of
Subjectively opinionated, you know based on what you think and feel versus objectively opinionated, which is complete right and wrong
Is the difference between 99 percent and 100 percent?
What does that mean? That's a small little pedantic detail. Nathan. No, it's not the difference between 99 percent and 100 percent
Is the difference between somebody being very passionate about a religion and trying to share it with others
But having conversations and then being an extremist who no longer needs to have discussions because they have the truth
It's 100 percent
their only responsibility now is to just pound the truth into the rest of the world because there is no room for being wrong
That's the very thin line that creates a very dangerous
society
Situation in society so right and that even shows itself in this notion of just environmentalism wanting a parking garage or not
As soon as one person is convinced that they're right. They're already wrong
And a lot of people I think could benefit from just realizing how little we actually know and how absolute our own
Our convictions really are
I bet you
Get into some serious
Have you gotten a like to into a serious political debate with like a family member or a friend?
When I was younger. Yeah, I was much less not recently. No, I mean because again, you just avoid them. I mean, no, not at all
I welcome that would be like sport for you. I feel like no I welcome it and the reason is is because
I see it as an opportunity to champion what I what I'm so excited and passionate about
as tolerance and listening to them and accepting them as being different but sharing an equally valid alternative view
And as the more people we have doing that the better our situation is going to become
I mean, we are more polarized now than we've ever been half lead to blame for social media, by the way
Um, and I think what we really need is just people to realize how little we actually know
There's this thing called the dunning kruger effect. You guys might have heard of it
It's a psychological phenomenon that says the less people know the more they think they know
and uh
Right, you know, we're plagued with that and via social media the less people know
I mean, they go ahead and they they they google one or two websites
I mean, I've fallen prey to this too. We all do right where I read one or two things. I'm like, oh, I see
So this is how it is
So no, you're not right because this thing said this thing which said this thing
And we're just perpetuating the problem when the reality is is the more that you know
The more you know, you don't know and I find that when I'm around like academics who dedicate their life to mastering something
They're just incredibly humble about their knowledge because they see how much they don't know
Right, you know, and when somebody doesn't know how much they don't know
That's the dunning kruger effect. They can't measure their own incompetence
Right, right. So they're stuck here thinking they know a lot because they don't know enough to know that they don't know a lot
It's a very curious phenomena. Yeah, no, no, I'm definitely familiar with that. I didn't know the actual name of it
But you know knowing that you don't know a lot is
smart or that's that's
Whatever whatever the best way to learn that's the best way to learn more right to know that you don't know everything
So you're saying i'm smart because I know less than you guys
But I know that I know less than you. Yeah, but you don't know you don't less. So you you're done. What if I do?
There's a great quote. I don't remember the book that it's from but it's exactly that
You know this person and I both don't know anything
But I know that I don't know anything therefore. I'm smarter than he is. Yeah, there's a quote in the book
I can't recall. I'm sure somebody in the internet and yeah, they'll find it. Yeah
But yeah, it's a great quote and you're exactly right
Knowing that you don't know is one of the wisest things that that can be done
And what I'm so passionate about is that machine learning and artificial intelligence
Studying that just gives rise to all of these just tolerant ideologies because you start understanding. What is intelligence?
What is learning? What is memory?
And we're all just prey to the sensory information that we receive we make these biased opinions based off of something
We can't really control you understand the learning process how people make decisions and I don't know
I just think that's why I'm so excited about us learning more
Is because I hope that myself and others who know this stuff can come share
These things that we've learned from machine learning and it's my hope that uh as the message spreads
People might become more tolerant and maybe before I'm able to invent the machine where we actually truly understand one another
We can just get a lot closer by being more tolerant and more understanding of differences among us
Definitely sound like such a hippie dude. Who do you real?
I've felt that though. Who did you like?
Did you have anybody in your life either now or in your younger years like when you were you know in high school or
Whatever throughout your life people that you looked up to that you kind of like tried to model yourself after people influences like
Who are your biggest influences?
This is kind of embarrassing
One of them was Leonardo da Vinci, right? I was very young and just sort of enamored with this notion of absolute knowledge
Knowing so many things so I pursued that and the other
his name is bash the stampede
and uh
Yeah, who's bash the stampede. Yeah, he's he's the best man. He's he's who everyone should aspire to be like never heard of him
Yeah, should we have to look him up here? This might be an appropriate look up. Does he have an instagram?
How do you say bash? Yeah, there he is. He's popular, man
okay
There he is. Look at this guy the anime
Okay
Yeah, I don't know. I was 12 or 13 years old and oh, yeah, this this anime
I mean, I don't know people like to again have very strong priors about things such as anime being right or wrong
but um this one particular anime is
is
Surprisingly deep and they explore very very very deep like philosophical issues and this was one of those things that made me have this sort of
irrational illogical
Affinity for just doing good and doing right things
So he's like this super essentially he's just this super powerful guy
He has amazing abilities, but all he wants is to just live in peace and be happy
But there's this other guy who wants him to suffer
And so he always tries to do bad things to him and as a consequence everyone around him is always getting hurt
And so it's just this whole video about this one this whole anime series about one guy
Just with this heart of gold just always trying to do good things and help people save the day with his cool powers
But all the while suffering happens inevitably and you know
It tackles a lot of the philosophical ideas of you know, what's right and what's wrong?
How do you feel about things and this is a beautiful show? That's super cool. That's wild. When did that show cartoons, man?
That's a long time ago
I just saw 2014 on there somewhere that I've seen I've seen this thing probably
I mean, there's only 26 episodes. It's short and sweet
You could watch it and I mean if you did a little a little weekend binge watching you could watch it in two weekends
Really? Yeah, and it's it's just phenomenal. I've watched the whole series probably a good five or six times
Shared it with a lot of my friends. Everyone who's ever seen it has just been enamored with it
Really? I want to check that out
Yeah, what was it on? What was it on? Was it on Cartoon Network? Was it on? That's super old, man
I mean, this was 1980 something. I think it's when it came out. Oh, really?
And so I caught a little later my friend. How are you? I'm 30. You're 30, right?
My friend was an anime buff and so he's the one who introduced it to me. I was visiting him. Excuse me and uh
Virginia and
He was just watching I watched it there and just it starts off slow. Okay
Got a build up. Yeah amazing like everything characters, but it's a great show
All you guys who like it, you know say like and comment how great this show is. I know how I know how many of you think it sounds
Super cool or how much you hate it on here
Oh, we need both you need both need both a new balance. We need the gaussian gaussian gaussian
Yeah, so Frederick Gauss. He was a mathematician. There's a fun little fable
Uh, I don't think it's true, but so allegedly
Um when he was in grade school the teacher punished everybody and said okay
I want you to all to add up the numbers from one to 100
And so they're all sitting there at their desks just like trying to do this thing
And then within like a minute or two he comes up and gives the answer 500 or 5050
And then the teacher's just like blown away and it turns out that allegedly he invented one of the summation formulas for arithmetic
arithmetic series and you know
Is this a kid he came up with that and it's an arithmetic series. You just add a bunch of things together
Um, and so yeah, you add up one plus two plus three plus four plus five plus six
Oh, okay
And so that whole sum is equal to a small little formula n times n minus one over two
And so allegedly he just discovered that formula when he was a little kid
And then went on I think the problem was much harder than that
But anyways, it's a fun little story and he went on to do many other great mathematics things such as great in the gaussian distribution
Which is pretty much the foundation of all probable probability theory and
Statistics and a lot about machine learning. So frederick gauss. He's a cool guy
Wow
That's amazing, man crazy. When are you gonna have something named after you like these guys soon?
Or do you have something already? Nothing not yet. I don't know. I don't know about all that stuff
What about tesla nikolai? Is that what's his name tesla tesla force was also telling me that him and
Thomas Edison, I believe
Have you have you do you know?
They were both
Similar, but thomas Edison was more about like being known for doing stuff for like being known for inventing
Known about being more famous and I think it was bell
Was it bell xander grand bell? I was like we should double check that but it was I thought it was the person who invented the light bulb
But basically he was telling me that tesla invented something basically the the neuron or whatever to a bat
Like he basically invented the the primal function of a battery
Right not an actual battery, but like the primal function or however a battery operates like he somehow created the concept for it
right, and it never got invented or it never came to fruition, but
Whoever made the light bulb whether it was Edison or bell no Edison made the light bulb. He made the light bulb, right?
the big famous
You know
Argument or struggle was between tesla and alexander grand bell. Oh, really?
So alexander grand bell was like this big. Hey, you probably find it there real quick. He was the big
Business guy. He was your your your friend from new york basically like alexander grand bell
Okay, he's like trying to monopolize electricity making it available to people and his biggest flaw was that he was a champion of
The direct current and so direct current has a huge problem. It's not able to propagate very far in the signal decays very quickly
and nikola tesla
Yeah, there you go
And nikola tesla he was all about just making things free
He was going to make wi-fi free for the world and he was just sort of idealist
That just didn't really fit into the capitalist structure that america was coming up in and as a consequence
He sort of ate it and I think he ended up like killing himself for something because he was really struggling with it
But he was the one who was pioneering the alternating current and that's what we use today
No, it's the oh the ac is what grand bell wants right and he did the ac
Yeah, and ac is what we use today and it's been
Phenomenal allows signals to travel much much further without losing as much power so we can get these power lines for miles and miles and miles
What do you think I mean was it was tesla did he have some sort of
Form of of autism or asperger's
Where he where he didn't was like a very inclusive couldn't communicate. Is that the same I read a book on tesla's
and it was by margaret something it was like a biography and
I couldn't tell whether
She was just like overly enamored with him and was sort of sensationalizing the stories or what it was
It was sort of like a fictional retelling perhaps
But she would describe him as being a person who would come and sit at dinner
And he would like separate all of his peas to one side of the plate and put his cup here and his you know
Silverware perfectly straight like this meticulous sort of yes demonstrating autistic type tendencies versus like obsession with detail
Obsessive compulsive, etc. Right. So she did describe him that way
Um, so if we want to take that as evidence or truth then I would say yes
Right. Yeah, I find that fact. I just for some reason. I personally find that fascinating how like certain people who become
You know turn into somebody like niggalite tesla who's who's so successful in one field like that. I always like
am
interested in their brain and like like the the
Autistic
Asperger side of people. I mean, I know people who have that and they're just like they get so focused on one thing
It's like, you know, you have no choice to become the best in the world at this one little thing
And then when it comes to having a conversation with somebody on the side of the road or
relative, it's like
You can't say two or three words to their
50 words and it's not only the dedication but oftentimes, you know, autistic people have a disproportionately large amount of
Neural capacity dedicated to that one thing
So, you know while we use all of our brain for all of these things oftentimes people with autism
They use a significantly larger portion of the brain for one specific task and that's why they've been
You know
associated with doing cool things like synergism where they like see and feel colors and senses all their senses mixed together
And you know when somebody hears numbers they like the numbers have personalities to them and they like see and they have colors
Etc, which is I agree. It's entirely fascinating
But it's actually an interesting little nugget of truth under that and that is, you know
The difference between mediocrity and greatness is just discipline. Honestly
They have a little bit of a leg up because they have, you know, allegedly a larger
Computational resources available perhaps, but you know, you take two people of varying skill
One person's dedicated all the time. The other one's not you already know who's gonna be more successful
It's really what it comes down to. How would you define discipline? Like what what creates discipline?
What is discipline? I'm sort of an I like discipline. I like enduring hardships
And no, that's what I would call it. I would call the willingness to endure hardships
Right. Yeah to subject yourself to endure hardships and what makes somebody good at discipline
Practice practice. It's literally it's just learned it comes with confidence and time and confidence is built by a few string of successes
You just do it over and over and over again
And then you start to associate the positive benefits of that enduring hardships
And you start it's like a drug you become addicted to it runners
Runners experience is kind of a thing, you know, you first go running for the first few weeks and your body's like what the hell you doing to me
Man, oh, this is right. You don't want to go. Fucking fasting. Yeah, but after a while your body's like, oh wait
I feel real good. I'm getting a lot of endorphins. Like this is good. You keep doing this
Yeah, you're incentivized to do it more. So just practice man. It's everything
What's something that I mean, can you give me an example of something that you've taught yourself to be disciplined?
I mean, well, I mean, is there a difference between teaching yourself to be disciplined at a certain thing or general discipline?
I don't think so. And so for example, I've tried to make a bunch of my
Lifestyle choices revolve around training my discipline. So, um, I would take cold showers, for example, something that's not really enjoyable
I sleep on the floor instead of a bed, you know, things that really sleep on the floor every day every night
I have a girl here now
She doesn't like sleeping on the floor. Well, she kind of sleeps on it. We have a happy meeting. We sleep on a beanbag bed
So really in the morning. Yeah, I don't know in a bed. So why is this?
Discipline it's just a small little thing
You just sleep on the floor you wake up in the morning and feel refreshed and I don't know
It's just part of training that mental discipline. So there's no there's no reason like
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. It's discipline. I understand. But what's the benefit of
What's the the physical it's good for you. Is it good for you?
It has been observed that usually it's pretty good for your back, etc
If you're willing to do it because that sounds like it would hurt that's what I was trying to say
Yeah, I mean, I don't really know the science behind it to be 100% honest
But I mean you can find evidence supporting whatever your ideas are, right? But so you found enough evidence
That you think it's good that you think it's good. No, maybe not. I'll be honest. I gotta I gotta confess
I don't but you're trying it to see if it's good then. I'm just doing it because it's hard
All right. Look, so you climb you climb a mountain. You're just doing it because it's fucking hard
You don't know if it's good or bad for you. It's simply discipline. It's just I'll tell you why I guess that happened
I was in graduate school. I was coaching a boxing gym
And you had to coach in the evenings I did research from like eight to five and then a coach from five to nine
And then I go back to work some more and do some more things and I was in the lab until
Two three o'clock every night and then I had to get up early in the morning and do it again and one day I was like
Why do I I always have to go home like why do I go home? It's a bed. That's really the only reason
It's like such a ball and chain like a shackle. I'm like, you know what? I'm just gonna go to sleep right here
You just roll the chair out and you just lay on the floor
You know such a liberating feeling like you can just whenever you get tired to think about it like when you're tired
You're like, uh, yeah, I gotta go home now. Like why you know because you feel like that's where you have to go
Right for some people that's fine. But I enjoyed the liberating feeling and the discipline of you know sleeping on the
The floor was worth it for me. But here's an example like let's say you climb a mountain. Yeah, why do you do it?
Yeah, it's fun. It's cool. Whatever. But you get to the top
It was really hard and then you go back down and now you experience something else in your life
That's hard. And what do you say to yourself? You're like, I climbed a mountain. I think I can handle this, you know
That's why you just you just put a success right there and this builds confidence
You now have a landmark a flag to compare the rest of your
The rest of your challenges to you know
So if you can challenge yourself to do something that's really hard and you can overcome it then and you can do that
Doing multiple things
Then you'll have the confidence to know if you come to another bridge that you think is going to be hard to cross
You'll have the confidence to do it and you know you can do it because you've done other things and you know
It'll be easier. Yeah, and and what's interesting is it becomes less
And that builds a general discipline across all family and once you have the general discipline is no longer a choice
It's who you are
Right. So I think there's a quote Benjamin Franklin. Maybe he says, uh, you know greatness isn't born
Greatness is learned you every single day when you're faced with a decision
You say what would a great person do now?
And then you do that until the day comes where you no longer ask yourself what a great person does
You just do what comes natural as being a great person
And so that's kind of how you think about discipline. You endure all these hardships, etc
And that's just like your mind. That's who you are. Someone's asks you to do something and it's hard
You don't think that it's hard because you're just like, oh easy. I've done. I do this stuff all the time, you know
Yeah, that's fucking fascinating, man. But wow, why the beanbag?
Why the beanbag? I'm curious. I I'm I wonder why the beanbag because we
All right
So the reason is because I slept on the floor and I didn't have a bed and I would always have like family and people come visit
And I needed something for them. So I got this big beanbag that zips into a bed when you lay it out
Okay, I've slept on beanbags. I used to have I bought two really big ass beanbags in my apartment in st
P. They are I used to sleep on those at Danny's house. It was too big
A lot of people slept on those things. All right. So there we go. It makes a lot more sense now
That's cool. What are some of the other things that you've taught yourself discipline?
Some of the things well, I stopped doing it recently
Well, no, it's still halfway there
But I would set my watch to a different time and wear it upside down
Right. So I just every time I want to tell the time I have to do like a little mental arithmetic real quick
And like tell the time backwards and it's just little things that strengthen your mind
You brush your teeth with your left hand instead of your right hand
Get your brain used to doing different things take a different route to school or work each day
You know, just always expose your brain to new things. You're not like stuck in a rut. Wow. Um, that's interesting. That's fucking awesome
I love that. I'm gonna try some of these things. Yeah, I just have so many ideas and stuff. That's crazy
Yeah, let me know if it works for you, man. Yeah, let me know how that works out
I will I'm gonna get lost on the way to work get fired from my job
I'm trying to tell the time
I'm brushing my teeth while I'm driving to work on a new route and I'm like trying to do it all at once
The cops pull me over. They're like, why are you brushing your teeth with your left hand?
And where are you going? I don't know where I'm going. I'm just trying a new route to work
I might try it. Wow, man. Yeah, that's incredible
I mean, I think if you think hard about your life, you probably subject yourself to some hardships unconsciously
Yeah, you know, I mean in the common day-to-day things that you do
There's something that you want enough that you voluntarily put yourself through a hardship to get it
And once you identify those things you can just exercise them a little bit more and you say, well
Yeah, I was gonna do this thing that was hard
Now I'm gonna do that thing and then do five push-ups every time before I do it
Just whatever small little things challenge yourself, you know for me. It's like I personally I feel like I've always trying to find like find
What makes up some days when I wake up and I go through a day and I feel a fucking great full energy
happy talking to people like
Super energetic and then the next day I'm just
Pissed off in a bad mood. I feel tired slow. I want to figure out like what makes me
Like the first day and not like the other day
So I like constantly tried to figure out like what patterns
You know, what what path I took that one day and what I can replicate to make that thing happen again
And I feel like I've never been able to figure it out. Well, there's there's a great idea
And there's a lot of truth behind that. I think that there do exist some some general norms, which are good ideas
but besides drugs
I took a
Systems biology course
Yeah, and it's the notion of like studying the whole body as a system and each component is communicating with other components via
You know dna of transcriptions, etc. Messengers and proteins all communicating
You try and model this phenomena to see how things happen
And for example, one of the phenomena that we studied is like the sleep wake cycle
There's a certain part in the brain and that sleep wake cycle gets trained and tuned to the amount of light that we're presented with
Which is why we're trained to get tired at night and stay awake during the day, right?
And the idea is that
There is just so much going on
You're just not going to figure it out, man. There's just like randomness. There's just hormone random changes
The weather changes you can't control that and for whatever reason some
Uh, some bacteria or something flares up
But not enough to make you sick but just enough to like make some hormonal response like stuff you can't see just anything
Exactly. There's a few good rules of thumb eat healthy and exercise and sleep
But that also that also pisses me off too because there's this one guy
I know who's extremely fat and overweight and doesn't take care of himself
I know he doesn't get as much sleep as I do and I know he doesn't do he doesn't exercise doesn't go to the gym
And he's always got 10 times more energy than I do. You're like, why am I tired?
I went to the gym 10 times this week. All I ate was broccoli and you have 10 times more energy than me
Why is it genetics? Is it like, you know, it's weird. It's just a drive. He has to get that money
It's discipline, man. Yes. I don't know. Yeah, there's a lot of truth behind that. I mean, there's just
Discipline there's just a genetic disposition
Yeah, who knows man
I wanted to ask like what are some cool projects or things you've worked on like so
What are some of the coolest stuff you've worked on or seen or like, uh
Or whatever something like that
something like that
Uh, let me think about that one. That's a little tricky
So can you narrow it down for me a little bit like I don't know like you say so you we're working on the
9-1-1 calling thing or whatever, you know, whatever that is called program or whatever
So like what are some of the things you've done over all these years like really cool
Projects or things you guys came up with or like what are some of the things that stick out in your mind some of the fun
The more fun exciting things that you like
Yeah, unfortunately the majority of my research is kind of like more theoretical and philosophical
So it hasn't been to apply to some more like, you know, what is learning?
What is memory etc, but you're gonna get roasted for that question, by the way
That's right. So maybe it's maybe it's things like you figure down or algorithms or whatever it is
But in business you got to apply and nobody's gonna pay me to sit in a room and think right
Let's have for the government and they don't even do that much anymore either with grants or it so
Uh, we got we got a business and we have things so I can tell you about some of the stuff
Some of the other things that we that we've done there
So in addition something else that we're exploring right now. Let's see what else what's cool. All right, so
The department of transportation is very interested in uh safety and maintenance of the roads highways bridges, etc
So there turns out that there's some civil engineers who have just
Myriad is a plethora of all kinds of data on this, you know
They have speed bump sensors on the highways which measure the width of the axles the speed of the cars
whether there's a trailer or not just all kinds of things and uh one thing that you might have heard
There was a bridge that actually fell recently and it was a lot of deaths and injuries and there was a crack
Like a full two inch crack in the bridge a few days before that people weren't observing
So they had this big new initiative where they had to take drones
And the drones are flying around these bridges and just taking pictures of all these things and monitoring
You know what the bridge looks like but now they've got hundreds and thousands of pictures
And what are they going to do just sit here and watch these videos all day every single day
So we develop a machine learning algorithms and techniques which will
Isolate and detect where there are cracks or damages and the degree of the cracks is as degree one two three four five, etc
And that can uh, you know save lives and that's a really boring thing, isn't it?
No, that's actually very fascinating because I work construction
So that like kind of hits a certain spot that makes made some sense to me
But like how do you so how do you come up with something or how do you implements?
You just code some sort of program that
Learns this thing and yeah, so I mean most machine learning algorithms have uh, they all follow the same formula
Okay, you have a whole bunch of data. Yeah, you pass it through some
For the sake of this conversation a black box and they're all network and it makes a prediction
Yeah, all right
Then what you do is you take a look at this prediction and you say whether it was right or wrong
Or or rather how far away how far away it was from what you wanted it to do
Then you do the most complicated thing and all of machine learning essentially and that's you
Calculate the the error rather you use an algorithm called back propagation and that finds
How you change the black box such that if you present that same
Image or piece of information to it again the output will be closer to what you want
And that's it. So you give it something it makes a mistake you go
You made a mistake do it a little bit better this way present the same thing and it'll do it better
So with those images we just show it all the images and it's just it doesn't know anything at first
It's like a baby. It's just just touching things and guessing making all kinds of mistakes
And we just inform it little by little. Well, this was wrong. This was right
And then it starts learning those features that we talked about what are the features of a crack
It starts learning to extract those features that define what a crack is and now it's presented with an image
It's able to identify cracks
Man, that's so crazy. It's cool. Like it just thinks for itself. It's just
I don't know. That's so crazy. Well, no, that's that's actually a really important part, right?
So these things that do really cool stuff
They are super narrow like, you know, you go to a bank of america atm
And you put your check in and it scans it for you automatically and detects, you know, and it seems super cool
That that's all that thing can do that thing's not going to go outside and learn to play basketball or do your taxes, right?
I mean, that's the notion of transfer learning and that's like one of the holy grails of ai that we've been exploring
And we're very far away from really understanding that wholesome way
So these and that's one of the things that I'd like to just sort of share with people is
You know, it's okay to be afraid of, you know, ai and it's what it can do in the future
But just remember we're really far away from any sort of terminator things happening and for the very far future as far as I'm aware
Anytime we're doing any research with any ai that has the potential to do scary things
You just unplug the ethernet cable. Okay. Yeah, so if it ever goes rampant or does something amazing
All you got to do is unplug the computer, right? But as soon as you have a plugged into the internet
Then allegedly I agree with the the concerns that are there, right? If something's like self replicating it gets into the internet
That can be really dangerous no doubt
But that's why we just exercise a little bit of discipline and restraint and unplug the ethernet whenever you're doing, you know
Advanced ai research no big deal. Did you hear about um
The face when facebook was creating that a new ai
Uh, I think it was for customer support that was supposed to talk to
Facebook users and try to like be
act as a support for
Facebook
um, and it was an ai
And I believe there was two different ai's
Yeah, and they created their own language. I'm really glad you brought that up
So that's that's like again one of the the problems in ai's sensationalism
They didn't invent their own language and it was
It was advertised that way and it was nothing even remotely that cool. Um, so really yeah
So we're that's one of the and but that's one of the problems is what are you gonna do?
I mean you're a consumer and you're supposed to trust the people giving us news and that's one of the problems
And this genius forest over here. He's the one who told me they created their own language
I was like blown away by it. The news article said that and it's cool to talk about
All the news articles did say that yeah, so in their defense in his defense and everyone
I mean, what are you supposed to do? You're not a machine learning expert
You're not gonna like go and read the papers and the reports and look into what it meant
So you're saying that they did not create two ai's did not create their own language define their own language, right?
I mean we feel like they're in there like conspiring against mankind and humanity and they they advertise it that way for a clickbait
You know, but what actually happened then? All right, so the the details. I don't exactly remember. It was a little bit ago
Um, but in a nutshell, I mean the idea was basically that
They were sending signals back and forth in a certain way that it seemed as though the responses were predictable
So it sends a certain signal and then it interprets it and responds in a way that there was structure and meaning behind the things going back and forth
It's not like we
Discovered what they were saying and they're conspiring and they have their own language
They just found patterns in the signals that they're sending back and forth with each other
Just as much as the image acquisition thing I described you earlier is going to find patterns in what defines a crack
They're just doing what they're programmed to do find patterns in the sensory input. That's all any intelligence system does
But were they were they initially programmed or expected to communicate in any form with each other?
I don't know the details of the full experiment. So I would have to exercise some academic
Restraint here and right right right outs and not say what I don't know. So yeah, yeah, either way
I mean, it's still pretty interesting to find out, you know that they were they were communicating in a way that
They didn't expect them to and it was a I but who knows it could have just been clickbait headlines
Yeah, yeah, I would for now I would um caution that is being clickbait headlines and
unfortunately for the the unforeseeable future we all have to just suffer from that because
We're not all experts in everything. You see someone. Oh
Eating a piece of chocolate
Makes you healthier and drinking a glass of wine. You see all these studies which are based off of poor statistics
Which then some I think ah man, I remember who was like owl roker or someone he was like on some news thing
It was super embarrassing. He's like, well, yeah, you know, I think what the thing is nowadays is you just you just find
Whatever scientific publication supports your own beliefs
Yes, I was like that is the exact opposite of what science is supposed to be
Yeah, you don't just cherry pick evidence to support your own convictions
It's the exact opposite
Scientifically minded people change their own convictions based on the evidence
You don't just go find evidence to make you feel good about what your own ideas are, right?
Oh, yeah, yeah
And so what are you gonna do when the people who are advertising the news think that way? That's crazy
It's unfortunate. You think there will ever be a shift in like I hope in general population understanding this kind of stuff
We're gonna keep championing these these ideas advertising just as many people as we can
You know, maybe people start thinking differently. I think you should be president
Anything. Oh, yeah. Hell. Yeah
I'd vote I would never want that much responsibility
But it would be good. Maybe you can clone yourself
I already have a clone now because I'm a wait. I'm not a cyborg. You ever thought about cloning
Yeah, of course, that's funny because then I can make an army of me and take over the world. Everybody wants to do that, right?
For sure. Yeah, or I could uh
Yeah, I mean there's lots of lots of fun entertaining things that can happen with cloning. What about um, what about elan musk's neural net
I forget what it's called, but that's the
Basically, he talks about on a phone. You're only output is your two thumbs and with right this net
I forget what with the exact word for it is
Yeah, I heard about it and uh like over your brain or whatever and basically you like live in facebook or you live in social media
Super suspicious of it. It sounds like a great idea and I am super happy. What does it call it again? Neuralink. Yeah
Neuralink neuralink. No, I'm really happy that he's someone's got to start doing it
No doubt and it's a great idea and we'll get there eventually, right? Yeah
But you know because this is the the fundamental technology behind that is very similar to what I was sharing with you before about
Putting ideas in someone else's brain. You have to know where to send the stimulus
You have to learn patterns in the electromagnetic, you know waves that happens as people think map these to some sort of functional output
Like it's an incredibly difficult complicated task. Yeah, but we can do it. We've done all we went we went to the moon
All right, we can do all kinds of hard things. So yeah, I like that. He's doing it
But I don't think that's going to be happening anytime soon
You don't seem to be you don't strike me as a big fan at Elon Musk
Um
I think he's doing really good things for the world and I am
Very supportive of his missions and his ambitions
Um, I've just read a little bit about him and he doesn't he doesn't really really intelligent things
Like he surrounds himself with experts
He knows what he doesn't know and he surrounds himself with experts and he's well informed
Because he's humble and I respect that however
Um
But this is the case with pretty much anything as I think there's hundreds and thousands of people who can do his job better
And most of his position is just luck and I think but that's the case with most everything in life
I mean people who are where they are think about what their true qualities are such as your friend
Who's really wealthy, right, you know, I don't think there's any really distinct characteristics that make one person shine
Phenomenally more than other people. There's hundreds and thousands of people with the exact same characteristics
But their life circumstances were such that I know they were born in Africa
And for whatever reason they just can't come here and be awesome and champ and take over these things, right?
So, um, and when I look at him, I think he's great and I like what he's doing
But I just I'm sort of against I guess sort of the
Um, the idealization that people have sort of made him to be like, oh, he's the big savior of the future kind of thing
Right, right because I think that uh handicaps ourselves. It makes you feel like you can't do it or something
He's just a guy who works hard
Surrounds themselves by experts and got really lucky and anybody else can do that too
But I still think what he's doing is great and I respect him. You know, I have nothing bad to say. I just yeah, yeah
Yeah
Do you ever think that you'll
be as
world-renowned as
Elon Musk? I don't think so. Uh
Yeah, I know I'm I like, uh, I don't know
I just like simple things like sometimes I just think about like going out to just like a little farm or a small little village somewhere and just
Helping people teaching math and some school and just like laughing with people and loving and feeling life a little bit
But then sometimes I wake up and I'm just like I want to go climb a mountain conquer the world
Right, so it's a tough balance to be able to find us right for us
But I I'm not a hundred percent driven and just ambitious to step over people and change the world
That's not me. I'm a little more of just uh, you know, like try gun like vash to stampede
That's my guys right here
That's the kind of guy I want to be you just want to live a happy life and make up this better and that's kind of what I want to do
You know, so
If it happens
I'd be cool. I'll embrace it to try and help the world in whatever way, but I'm not really working for anything like that
You know, yeah, it's not my ambitions. That's cool, man. That's really interesting. What do you guys want to do?
It's a good question. It's a good question. I don't know what I I've always kind of wanted to do the same thing
I bought like my only skill has ever been
kind of like
You know making videos with my friends when I was a little when I was younger in high school
All I did was run around I ran around skateboarding with a video camera almost downed with what you've done here, man
It's really impressive. Yeah, it impresses me even because I've known Danny since back then
I knew him. I'm impressed that he did
I'm one of the autistic people who stuck with the same thing since all I ever known and I just like I was on that path
I had so much momentum. It's like why
God
Going another beautiful man was working for you
Right. He found the part he was good at, you know, he wasn't always the best
BMX or skateboarder
But he was the best at filming everybody and putting it together and editing the videos together and it just yeah
It worked out good
And it's transitioned more into making it look cool to actually providing valuable context
Very good. Yeah, because you got to limit society, right?
So you got to find some way to make what you do valuable to others
But I really like that you mentioned this right at the end because I struggle with this sometimes because I have friends out at
You know facebook and google and they're like Nathan you got to come out here
And you'll be challenged and you'll grow so much more and you'll really thrive out here
And I have absolutely no doubt. I mean I've been out there. I went to the google brain project
I've met some of like the astounding google brain project. Yeah, so it's a research group at google that does ai
You know, I've gone there and that with them talked about them my research their research and
It's these people are astounding. They think in ways. That's amazing and I love it
but
I think the notion of success is a little bit conflated in our world with
Just status and prestige, right because for me success is just watching others
Grow and and succeed. I like to teach. I like to share what I'm passionate about
I like to just help others
And so for me
If I went to a small little village and just saw some people's lives, you know flourish and watch them be really happy
That'd be success. Yeah for me. And so that's why I like what you're doing is
You know, you know, whether you learn one thing or many things you're happy with what you're doing
You're making a difference for some people and I mean, is there any other way to really define success other than that?
Yeah, well, I mean it also has a lot to do with with your early life, too
I mean like how you you were developed as a young kid like what you're
What you were put up against growing up, right? I mean if you
I mean, did you grow up with siblings or anything like that? Or were you an only child?
I had two siblings. I was the youngest. Do you think um
That had anything to do with how you turned out like with what you wanted to do like learning science or getting learning all this stuff like
Like being better than your siblings competitiveness like a lot of times like how people grow up
I feel like that has a lot to do with how they how they end up or the path they take
There's a lot of psychological research behind
Children and and where they fit in
And you know
There's correlation between being the middle child and being the troublemaker and then being the youngest and then needing attention
And then being the oldest and then yeah, you know being somewhat altruistic sometimes because you have to help the younger siblings
So there's all kinds of like a little interesting correlations none of them are absolute or anything
But I would say that that evidence is enough to say absolutely you're up bringing the number of siblings you have in your position
Among them is going to significantly
Modify who you become and what you determine is success, right? Absolutely. Absolutely
Well anything else we should cover. I mean we've been on there for like an hour and almost two hours now almost
Yeah, probably about close to it. This was a good. This was good man. Yeah. Thank you
Everyone who stuck through it with this is one of the best discussions. I think we've ever had yeah
I can't rate rewatch this a couple times. I'm gonna watch it a hundred times
definitely, man, I'm really
honored and
Grateful for the opportunity to share what I love. I'm very passionate about this stuff and it's nice to be able to have a
You know a platform and a microphone to share what I love absolutely
Yeah, man, I would love to have you on here again, you know eventually, you know next time you're down here
Some cool shit you're working on down the line or yeah some new shit that's going on 2019 is lining up to be a very busy year for us
We have a lot of contracts on the line. So awesome. Really? Yeah
Yeah, everybody new Psy labs new Psy is a company in Tallahassee if you're looking for any data science or machine learning
Services if you'd like to get insight as a service as we call it
Please reach out to Nathan at new Psy dot co or google and contact your guys here. We'd love to offer some services
Awesome. That's awesome, man. Cool. Well, thank you, brother. Yeah, my pleasure, man. It's good to call you a friend, Nathan
Thanks, buddy
