Bjorn Brundvahn, ladies and gentlemen, thanks for coming back on and giving us a second chance.
With sound this time.
With sound.
We have audio now.
All right.
So thanks for coming on.
You're making us look good.
Hopefully.
So for all the people out there who may not know, give me a little background on what
you do.
Criminal defense lawyer, primarily in the Tampa Bay area, but doing business all over the
United States and wherever the cases take me.
I've been doing it for about 30 years.
And then how did you how did you start or like where did you how did you originally
get interested in law?
Like what were you doing or you know where what age were you and where were you when
you decided you wanted to become a lawyer?
So it was probably about 14 and I'd just been to a movie with a buddy of mine and it
was about a trial lawyer.
I can't remember what the movie was back in Norway.
And as we're walking out from the movie theater, I said, well, that looks like a cool thing
to do for a living.
And he looked at me and said, oh, that's way too difficult for you.
And I said, all right, well, I'm going to show you.
So that's really when I decided I was going to be a lawyer.
I mean, there's a lot more to it.
Yeah.
Right.
My dad was an oral surgeon.
All his friends were doctors.
So the doctor route was out because I didn't want to do what my dad did and his friends
did.
And at the time, it seemed like the logical thing to do.
Looking back, I probably should have gone into computers and software, but you know,
probably wasn't smart enough for that anyways.
Definitely not as interesting as what you do.
And then how did you get, did you just kind of like fall into these interesting cases
that you are in now?
Or was that kind of like, for instance, murder cases and big drug cases?
Were those like an interest when you started or did you just kind of fall into that?
I think that the biggest interest when I started was probably capital murder cases.
When you say what is capital murder?
Capital murder means cases where the state of Florida or the federal government are
seeking the ultimate penalty, which is the death penalty.
And in college, I was fortunate enough during a time period when I was volunteering with
an agency who represented people on death row to actually go on death row and and meet
someone who was sentenced to death and spend some time with him.
And that was probably the moment that I decided I wanted to do that kind of work
and try to help people that were on that throw.
OK, so walk me through the first big case, the Russian case.
How did that, how did that come about?
How did you fall into into that case?
I don't know if that's the first big case.
That's not the first big case, but it's a big case.
Right. It's a big case.
It's definitely one of your most famous cases, right?
It probably is.
I mean, it's it's it's the case that I was not supposed to be able to win.
Right. My client was charged with being in possession
of three and a half tons of cocaine on a freighter off the coast of Columbia.
He admittedly ordered the crew to take on the cocaine.
And he was the captain of the freighter.
And to be able to get a not guilty verdict in that case was was.
I thought it was possible.
I don't think you could ever sell something to a jury
unless you think it's possible, but it was a Hail Mary pass.
And and fortunately for him, we succeeded.
And had you ever heard of any kind of case like this before
that had been successfully beaten or?
I don't know that I had heard of of the captain of a freighter
being found not guilty after ordering crew to take on that much cocaine.
I certainly had there had been cases where crew members were found not guilty.
You know, the defense being we didn't know.
We didn't know what we were getting ourselves into that type of thing.
But but as far as the captain's concern, I would say no.
You know, Yuri, who was who was my client, that was from the Ukraine.
He knew that it was very likely that he was going to be convicted.
And he was because of that was willing to enter a guilty
plea in return for a ten year sentence.
The problem was in order to be able to plead to a ten year sentence,
the government wanted him to testify that the other crew members knew
that they were taken on cocaine before they left Panama.
And he looked at me and he said, I can't do that.
It's not the truth. I just can't do it.
And knowing that he was likely going to then die in prison.
So if convicted, he's facing what life sentence he was.
So he was basically it wouldn't be a life sentence
because he was brought here from well, actually, for him, it could have been a life sentence.
If he came from if he's exited from Colombia, there's limitations.
You can get about, I think the max is 35 years.
But for him, he could get a life sentence.
He probably would have received a sentence about of about 30 years
if he's convicted guilty. Right.
And and he was in his mid fifties.
So so that's the remainder of most of his life.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah.
So the jury initially deliberated and there was about 16 co-defendants.
And so initially they deliberated.
And they had reached verdict as to everybody, except for my client, the captain
and someone who was listed as the electrician on the boat.
And so then they they said they were deadlocked on on the captain and the electrician.
And so then the judge will read them what's called an Allen charge,
which basically says, go back, try your best to reach a verdict.
This has been a very costly trials costing taxpayers a lot of money.
If there's any way that you can reach a verdict, you know, please give it one other try.
And so they did and they spent another day deliberating and we come back
and then we were told that they had reached a verdict on one.
And that they were hung on the other one.
So the court.
That when they're reading the verdict, the court first reads the verdict
of the electrician who and the jury still hung on him.
They couldn't reach a verdict on the electrician.
And the concern at that point was, all right, well, they probably found
the captain guilty because they were hung on the electrician.
And so when the verdict was read of my client, you're a chalk rock.
It was not guilty.
And well, interestingly, you're always said he was an atheist
growing up in the Soviet Union.
It makes sense because it really wasn't religion.
It wasn't part of his his his childhood.
But the interest interesting part about Yuri, when the verdict was reached,
he stood up, put his hands together and looked up towards the ceilings
as if he figured there was some higher power that was involved in helping him out.
Right. I think I had something to do with.
Yeah, I was going to say, I think he should have looked at you.
Oh, he was right.
He appreciated what I did very much. Oh, I'm sure.
Wow. And how long how long did this whole trial last?
It all lasted about a month.
One month. OK.
And why do most of these trials go like big drug trials, like cases like this?
Why do you think they go to Tampa Bay versus another place?
Like, why do you think the trial was held in Tampa?
Was that was at the port that the ship was headed to?
No, no, the ship was headed well.
According to the government, the ship was headed to to Poland.
And when you say, according to the government, well, so their theory,
I mean, their their belief was that
it was a ship that was taken three and a half tons of cocaine
from the Colombian cartels on this freighter
to Kudansk, Poland, to the to the Russian cartel. Wow.
And and my argument was that everyone on the ship,
including the captain, were mere pawns of the cartels.
And, you know, one of the interesting moments in the trial
is when my client is on the witness stand and my guy was a big guy
and the prosecutor is questioning him about
this other captain that had boarded the ship right before they left Panama.
He was a Colombian and who was a witness for the government,
saying everybody knew that it was cocaine.
Everyone knew what they were doing.
And and the prosecutor looked at my client and and he said,
you're not afraid of the Colombian captain.
And my client looked at the prosecutor
and looked at the Colombian captain.
And he said, no, I'm not afraid of the Colombian captain,
but I am afraid of the organization behind the Colombian captain.
Yeah. And and that was basically his story.
I mean, that he'd been recruited by a legitimate shipping agency in the Ukraine.
They knew where his family was located.
They they knew where his wife, his kids, his parents, where everyone was.
And and, you know, if he stepped out of the box
and did something that the Russian mob didn't approve of
or the Colombian cartel didn't approve of, there would be consequences.
And so because of that, he just felt like he didn't have a choice.
Right. But to carry on with what he was told to do.
Wow.
And I mean, it seems like just from like what you're saying is that most of the time
or however long this has been happening, the quote, war on drugs is like
all of the guys like Yuri, the pawns are the ones that are getting locked up
and getting these really long sentences when the big guys with all the money,
the leaders can are able to make deals and and work their way out of it.
Right. Right.
So you were asking about, you know, how how it is to tampa
is sort of the epicenter for for these type of cases.
So so for about.
Probably 20 years.
There's been an organization or operation called Panama Express,
which is basically part of the war on drugs.
It's an effort to stop the flow of cocaine and other drugs
from Colombia and Mexico into the United States.
And for some reason, the the the Center for Prosecution,
one of the biggest centers for prosecution of these cases has been
the Tampa Bay area, go fast boats, semi submersible submarines
that are caught in the Pacific Ocean that you would think would end up
going to San Diego, right, end up coming to Tampa Bay.
Boats in the Caribbean is the same thing.
They end up coming to Tampa Bay and there has probably been thousands.
Not probably there's been thousands of Colombians,
Ecuadorians, Mexicans who mostly are poor fishermen,
people that are desperate to make some money,
whether it's because they have a relative who is sick or kids
that they're trying to put through school or or they're just desperate to to make a dollar.
And they're the ones that initially end up getting charged.
They're the ones that end up doing the long sentences.
The idea is that by going after these
submarines, go fast and freighters and what have you.
That sooner or later, you will catch the big boys,
the guys that are in charge of it all.
And and in reality, you do at some point, you do get to the big boys.
Unfortunately, the big boys are smart enough to know that they want to cooperate
from from the get go.
And so they end up getting very, very light sentences.
In fact, some of them, in my opinion, are powerful enough and influential enough
where they can sit in in an American prison and pay someone in Colombia
to load a boat full of drugs, pay some peasants to get on it,
and then hand off to coordinates to the US government to make it look like
they just happened to, you know, find this go fast vessel, a semi submersible, full of cocaine.
And then they get a reduction in their sentence while these just have to pay a tax.
Exactly. Exactly. Yeah.
Were you court appointed for that case?
Or they hire that?
No, for the Russian, I was court appointed.
I've been retained by people out of Colombia.
But but on the the Russian case, I was court appointed.
So since then, you've been reached.
You've been hired in cases similar to this.
I've been hired by people that are being extradited from Colombia.
So people that are actually operating out of Colombia.
The people that are they're really after.
The people that they're trying to get to by going after all the little people.
Yeah.
Are people that are usually never step foot anywhere near cocaine,
but but they're orchestrating it all.
And I've been retained by some of those people to really to represent them
and from a result from the not guilty sentence or whatever.
Who knows? Who knows what the reason is?
I mean, how do these guys how do these guys get a hold of you?
How do they get in touch with you?
Um, you know, it's a variety of reasons.
I mean, it helps to be able to say that I had a client
who was caught with three and a half tons of cocaine and was not guilty.
Right. But the majority of the cases never go to trial.
They're being resolved and plea bargaining and cooperation.
You know, I think the not I think I know the reason
that I started getting some of these cases is I was called
for a court appointed case in Tampa and it was a gentleman
who had been extradited from London.
He's now deceased, but he had been extradited from London.
It was about 10 years ago.
And I was called to court to accept an appointment.
When I arrived outside the courthouse, I received a phone call from the court
saying, you know, he already has a lawyer.
You don't, you know, we don't need you.
And instead of just saying, OK, well, I'm out of here.
I asked a simple question.
I said, are you guys, do you know if the lawyer is here?
And they said, no, the lawyer's in Houston, Texas.
So I said, well, why don't I just come up, you know, as a friend of the court?
I'll talk to the gentleman.
I'll help him out.
I'll help him get in touch with his lawyer who's in Houston, Texas.
And and so it turned out by me doing that without any expectation that I was going
to get anything out of it, I ended up being hired as local counsel,
along with the Houston, Texas lawyer.
And that lawyer already had a strong connection to Colombia.
So he would then introduce me to people and bring me in on cases
where people were actually hiring us or considering hiring us out of Colombia.
Wow.
I mean, do you ever fear for your safety when you're doing this kind of stuff?
I mean, obviously, these guys are pretty dangerous potential to be pretty dangerous.
Potentially, potentially.
I don't know.
I mean, you had to be careful anywhere you go in the world.
But I don't I don't fear for my safety.
I make sure that I don't lie.
I make sure that I don't suggest that I can do something.
That I that I can't you can't guarantee.
You can never guarantee anything.
Right. But if if if I think that maybe I can get.
You know, a 10 year sentence, I may say I could probably get a 15 year sentence.
Right. Because I'd rather have a client that's.
And be happy about the 10 year sentence.
Then they disappoint you to get 15.
Exactly. Exactly.
And and quite frankly, with those guys, if they play their cards right,
they usually get below 10 years, which is kind of crazy because they deal
in hundreds of thousands of kilos of cocaine and hundreds of millions of dollars.
And and and, you know, net profits for some of those guys is in the billions of dollars.
It's like huge corporations.
Wow.
And these corporations that are run out of these countries, like Columbia, like out
of Columbia, out of out of, you know, I mean, out of Russia, I mean,
it's throughout the world.
There are organizations, you know, that that are criminal organizations
that that, you know, have a lot of money, a lot of a lot of power and fly to.
Well, no, no, no, I know I fly down there.
We meet down there, you know, and I'm met with clients in Columbia.
I've met with clients and agents in Panama.
And it's, you know, it's there's definitely a security aspect to it.
But, you know, you just I I've never I've never been concerned.
I never felt that it wasn't safe.
And when we meet with agents, you know, they're very careful.
You know, we may be told that, you know, go to go to such and such a hotel,
wait in the lobby for further instructions will sit in the lobby and wait.
And then we'll be told, OK, come up to such and such a room
and then we'll have meetings and you won't be by yourself.
You'll have no, no, there'll be other usually another lawyer there,
investigators, agents. OK.
Yeah. That's a little bit more comforting, at least. Sure.
So, I mean, like we were saying before, when I was when we were talking about
how a lot of these trials go to Tampa,
do they get they get a lot more convictions out of Tampa?
Because I think so.
More conservative. I think so. A lot of old people down here.
Right. I think they were definitely more conservative,
more likely to convict, I think, than California, San Diego, here in Miami.
Yeah.
This is still it's a very conservative area.
And and and, you know, it's it's
to what degree prejudice is as part of the equation.
I think prejudice is always part of the equation, unfortunately.
And so, you know, did it help that the Russians
all look like Midwestern farmers?
You know, they didn't look like they didn't look like
people from south of the border.
They didn't look like they just looked like regular American farmers.
Right.
And unfortunately, that probably helped them.
The the ones that, you know, the peasants from Colombia who look like.
They don't look like the average American drawer
that that's going outside.
They're not white skin.
They're not white skin.
They're dark skin.
They speak a different language.
And, you know, is Jarvis still working with you?
He is. Yeah.
We're doing a starting a five week Capitol murder trial
in Polk County on second week of January.
Really? Yeah.
Capitol murder, you said? Mm hmm. Wow.
How long would how long do those usually go on for?
Like a Capitol murder base?
Three to five weeks. Yeah.
If you're taking it to trial, right?
That's what I meant. The trial, the trial, the trial takes three to five
preparation part. Yeah.
How long that could go on for three to five years and sometimes more.
And they're usually sitting in custody during that time.
Yes.
Serving time during the preparation for the trial.
Right. Right.
It's very, very unusual for someone charged with first degree murder
to have a bond.
To have a bail. Yeah.
Yeah. Sometimes. Right.
That happens.
But it's very unusual.
So if you're sitting in there, say for three to five years
and you get found not guilty.
Do you get it compensated?
Sure. Do you get compensated for anything at all?
No. No.
Unless you can prove that you're innocent.
And not only that.
Okay.
You had to prove that you're innocent and you had to prove that the prosecutor
and the agents knew it.
Oh, okay.
It's crazy. It's crazy.
I mean, they really should.
We really should compensate people that are found not guilty.
Right.
That's a lot of time to sit in jail to be not guilty for something.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, I've had people that were sentenced to death.
Right. Sitting on death row.
So they're sitting.
First, they're sitting to wait for their trial.
Then they're convicted.
Then they're sentenced to death.
Then they're sitting on death row for several years.
And then win the appeal.
And then so they walk out of prison free, not guilty.
Right.
Their lives are destroyed.
Right.
And we give them ten plus years.
And we give them nothing.
Right.
You probably, your name is ruined after that.
You can't go back to your normal job.
Right.
The people you know aren't looking at you the same anymore.
Right.
Right.
You think about it.
You go to apply for a job and they say you've ever been charged with a crime and say, well,
I was charged with murder, but I was found not guilty.
Yeah.
Probably not going to get high.
Right.
Right.
Just for being involved.
Right.
Just for being even a suspect, right?
Right.
And you could be completely innocent.
Right.
Because people basically, you know, I had a case years ago with a judge who I love.
It was early on in my career.
My client, we had gone to trial on the case.
He was found not guilty.
He gets released from jail.
He's out for less than a month.
He gets re-arrested.
He comes back in and we'll go to trial again.
This time he's found guilty.
And the judge was going to hammer him.
And so he, he goes through his prior record and he would get, he would name off an offense
like possession of cocaine.
Sure.
And I would say, judge, he was found not guilty of that.
All right.
So he got away with that one.
I mean, it's like, they don't really.
They don't look at it the way they should.
No, I mean, it should be looked at because you go into the trial and, and the jury is,
is, is told, you're supposed to presume the person innocent.
Can you presume the person innocent?
Everyone is like, sure, we can do that.
But we really don't presume anyone innocent.
No.
I mean, in my opinion, we don't.
Right.
It's supposed to be innocent till proven guilty.
Right.
And you would think, okay, well, so if you presume the innocent, then you go to trial
and you're found not guilty.
Shouldn't that mean that you're innocent?
Shouldn't that end it?
Right.
But it doesn't.
No, it does.
I mean, that sticks on your name forever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, because people make up their own minds and, you know, people think they know everything.
They know they have all the answers and, you know, everything is black and white instead
of shades of gray.
Wow.
Do you think it could possibly change from being like that one day, being looked at like
that, or maybe being more on the track of innocent till proven guilty?
I think it's, I think it's something to strive for.
Yeah.
But if, if social media is a reflection of our society, there's an awful lot of black
and white on social media and very little open mind, you know, I would consider and listen
to everything.
It's sort of like, this is how it is.
Right.
This is it.
And this is it.
Right?
Yep.
And so I would hope that that's not necessarily a reflection of our society, but it probably
is.
Yeah.
Because otherwise I think we should, we wouldn't have any issue saying if you've been falsely
accused and acquitted, you ought to be compensated at least, at least give you the basics, you
know, that you would have made during that time period.
Right.
Maybe what you were making before.
Give you a chance of starting your life over.
Right.
Let's, for a second, let's talk about the Oscar Boland case for a second.
That was pretty insane experience for me in particular because I got to go with you
to that town Stark in mid-Florida during the time when he was executed and we got to capture
a lot of it and kind of like interview a lot of people there, like victims' families
and a lot of the people who were against the death penalty.
We met a lot of people who had been on death row and then got exonerated from death row.
Talk to me a little bit about your experience with that case and with Oscar Boland, the Oscar
Boland case.
He had been on death row for about 30 years, right?
And or he was about 20 years and basically the day we were there.
It was really intense because the whole time you were communicating back and forth with
the Supreme Court, trying to determine if they were going to have a stay on his execution.
So nobody knew whether he was going to actually get executed that day or not.
Could you walk me through that day and kind of your experience with that case and?
Sure.
So first of all, leading up to that, you know, all the way from early on in college and through
my career, I had dealt with people facing the prospect of being sentenced to death.
I had clients that were sentenced to death.
I had clients who were facing the death penalty but avoided the death penalty.
And so certainly had dealt with that aspect of it.
So this was definitely not anywhere near your first case like this?
No, but it was my first case where there was a pending execution.
And so what happens, I had been assigned to or asked if I would represent Oscar by his
wife, Rosalie, probably about two years before his execution.
So at this point he had gone through his trials, he had been found guilty.
Some of the cases he had gone through all the appeals.
And I agreed to try to help.
And knowing that at some point the governor was probably going to sign his death warrant,
which usually when the death warrant is signed there is about a 60 to 75 day window from
the time it's signed until the schedule execution date.
During that time period, you're basically working nonstop.
Myself, Jervis, we had two other lawyers from a capital resource center that was helping
us out and we were basically working nonstop, filing appeals, doing everything we possibly
could to get relief.
We filed in the state trial court.
We appealed the denial in the state trial court to the Florida Supreme Court.
We appealed the denial in the Florida Supreme Court to the United States Supreme Court.
We filed in the federal district court at the trial level.
We appealed that to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals when that's denied.
Then we appealed it to the United States Supreme Court.
We also sought relief from the governor.
Basically you do everything you possibly can, sort of like for a doctor being in surgery
trying to save someone's life.
So the day of the execution, all this stuff has been going on for 75 days.
I spent a lot of time with Oscar Boland and with Rosalie visiting at the prison, getting
to know him better.
How much time would you say you spent with him personally?
Nowhere near as much as time as Rosalie did.
Rosalie would see him every single day, I mean every single week, two days a week for
like 20 years.
But I saw him a lot.
I spent several days with him during that time period combined.
Regardless of guilt or innocence, I realized that whether or not he was the person that
he was accused of being and convicted of being or not, he was someone at this point
that obviously cared for his wife and there was nothing wrong with him from a health standpoint.
He wasn't a danger to anyone because he was never going to be released from prison unless
at some point we learned that he was actually innocent.
That day was probably one of the most difficult days of my life.
I arrived at Stark about 1pm, I believe it is.
Everything's on lockdown.
I remember you had asked me if you could fly your drone over the prison, I said probably
not a good idea unless you wanted to be shot down.
That was one of the most unforgettable days of my life too.
So then we're waiting and you know in the prison you can't have your phones with you.
And so first I'm sitting in the lobby outside the warden's office and waiting and myself
and his spiritual advisor.
And then we go into the chapel which is this really nice chapel in the middle of Florida
State Prison which is where people are who are facing the death penalty or the people
that just can't get along with others.
It's high security prison.
And it looks like an actual church inside of there?
It's a church.
It's a church inside of there.
It looks just like a church except it's smack in the middle of a prison.
And so we're there myself and the spiritual advisor and everyone else who's there are
victims' families, law enforcement, some prosecutors.
And they're all just sort of congregating, they're waiting to hear.
Obviously I'm hoping that the Supreme Court's going to grant a stay of execution.
At this point I can't, I have no access to my client.
Where is he at this time?
So he is in a special cell awaiting the announcement to then go into the death chamber.
So the only one that, I think there's two people that have contacts with them, the Warden.
And then the first assistant I think he's called.
No one else has contact with him.
And they were wonderful.
I mean the Warden was wonderful.
But we're sitting there and it's kind of awkward, you know, because I'm, I guess I'm from the
victim's family standpoint, I'm the bad guy.
Yeah, they probably don't like you.
They were all in there in this little chapel with you.
Sure, sure.
And they were all kind.
But I mean you just feel that there's a little bit of tension, you know, probably wish I
was there.
That's putting it lightly.
Yeah.
So then we get the word that the Supreme Court has not granted a stay and then we are escorted
into the viewing area in the death chamber.
And it's a small room.
There's about four rows, four or five rows of chairs.
Fits probably about 20 people sit to be seated.
And then there's on the back row news reporters are allowed in the back and other special
guests, I guess.
And so I'm sitting right on the front row along with the spiritual advisor looking through
the window and Oscar is being placed on the gurney.
You know, his arms are strapped down, he's laying on his back.
He's able to lift his head, he's able to see me and the spiritual advisor.
You know, he miles, thank you to both of us, didn't have any last words.
I think he was, you know, he was ready.
Yeah.
He was tired of being incarcerated, I think he was just ready to go.
But to me, to then see a perfectly healthy human being being executed with, you know,
cocktail or drugs is just grotesque in my opinion.
I mean, it just, it makes no sense.
And was that was that the first execution you were witnessed?
That's the first one I witnessed and I'm hoping it's the last one that I witnessed.
It's not something I wish for anyone.
I mean, the I'll do it again just to support the client.
But that that would be the only reason I would do it again.
Are you obligated to be there and watch it?
No.
He asked you to just want you to be there or?
So or do you just feel like he is allowed to have two people there?
Okay.
One member of the legal team and one spiritual advisor.
And that's it?
No family, no nothing.
That's it.
And and so, you know, I asked the warden before he told me, I didn't, he said, my client
said, if you want to be there, no, I'd like for you to be there.
If you don't want to be there, don't worry about it.
And so I asked the warden, I said, can he see me?
If I'm there, can he see me?
Will he be able to see that I'm there and know you're there and he said yes.
And so I was like, okay, you know, I'll be one of two friendly faces so that he feels
like he has some comfort and, you know, someone who cares.
And is this room, is it like set up like a theater?
Like a like a seat in like, like, there's glass and you're sitting right up.
I mean, his feet are probably right here.
I mean, the glass, the glass is right here.
I'm sitting right here.
Yeah.
Is that probably there and then it's had so it's like five feet in front of you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That has to be an intense moment.
Yeah.
It's just like to think that they actually have that a theater set up for human beings
to watch somebody die is just like so barbaric.
Right.
Right.
I mean, I mean, doctors will not participate in doing this because they're oath, they're
not supposed to help someone die or kill someone.
Right.
It's not just, it's not helping someone die.
You're killing them.
Yeah.
I understand if, if, you know, if, if I'm very sick and a lot of pain and you want to
go and I'm just, you know, I want to go.
I don't really have an issue with that, but, but for someone who's healthy and there's
nothing wrong with them and for us to just to premeditatedly kill that person.
It just sends all kinds of wrong messages.
It sends a message that it's okay to kill people under certain circumstances.
Right.
You know, uh, in barbaric societies, I mean, yeah, that's what happened, but the problem
is if, if you don't control that, I mean, then we end up killing each other out and
we know, cause you know, just keep going back and forth and everyone gets killed.
So the whole idea is society is supposed to sort of put some breaks on, on that type
of behavior.
I mean, a lot of countries have banned the death penalty and most, most civilized countries
have banned the death penalty.
It's not.
We're one of the few.
Right, right.
Only civilized, when, you know, civilized in that sense, the only Western country that
still has the death penalty, you know, I mean, right up along with China and Russia, it seems
to be like the big, uh, yeah.
They still have them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, China, they, they, they have like mobile execution units.
They kill people for drug, drug offenses.
You know, we had, um, I represented a guy named Tam Fuck Yuck was a Chinese guy from
Hong Kong and he was caught with, with about three tons of cocaine and we went to trial
and they were on the, the vessel was called Tam Fuck Yuck.
He was the owner of the vessel.
It was the vessel was his name.
That's his name.
Like a little difficult to claim that he didn't know.
You know, anything about it.
Yeah.
Um, and so we went to trial and my client and, and, and, and his brother-in-law who was
the captain, they were both convicted and then all the others for found not guilty.
So I remember going down to Chrome where they detained people before they get, um, sent back
to, in their case, would be back to China.
And they all had a legitimate concern that they expressed to me that, yeah, we were found
not guilty, which is wonderful, but we're afraid that we're going to go back to China
and we're going to get executed.
Even though they were found not guilty.
Right.
Right.
Is that, that what the country would still do that?
Potentially.
That's what, that was their concern.
Yeah.
You know, because, I mean, they, they execute people over there for drug offenses.
And I mean, these guys who are on a boat that was supposedly bringing tons of cocaine
back to Hong Kong.
Right.
Holy shit.
So, and the, I don't know if, I don't know what happened.
If anything happened, I hope nothing happened to them, but yeah.
Wow.
And the process is way different in China, obviously than here.
I mean, obviously you don't get the same kind of trial.
I mean, you know, I haven't studied it, but if you Google like China and mobile execution
units, you know, mobile execution units.
Right.
So what does that mean?
They come to you and execute you?
Google it.
Yeah.
Fucking Uber execution.
Yeah.
All right.
God damn.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean.
And I would think that we, as a society, should be better than that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What do you think?
Like, what do you think the future, like, do you see in the future us ever evolving away
from that?
Like, how do you see a change coming anytime soon or?
So yeah, I'm always hopeful, you know, a lot of the northern states don't have the death
penalty.
Okay.
But the federal government does.
Right.
And then the southern states, most of the southern states do.
You know, I'm always hopeful, I think that it's going to change, but then when I do jury
selection in these type of cases, and at the beginning of jury selection, we do what's
called death qualification.
It basically means that the jurors that either are automatic death penalty jurors or automatic
life jurors get excluded.
Okay.
And so the people that have strong issues, I mean, or strong opinions one way or the
other, either if you're guilty of premeditated murder, you should always get the death penalty.
Right.
Or if I'm so opposed to death penalty, I would never impose the death penalty.
Those people are excluded.
And it's scary that I would say about 50% of the potential jurors fall in that category
and probably fairly equally.
Well, let's say 25 say always the death penalty, 25% says never the death penalty.
And so then you have the other 50%.
And the other 50%, they don't see them too bothered with considering the death penalty
as a penalty.
So I don't see it being abolished in the South anytime soon.
I wish it was.
I mean, I'd rather do something else.
I'd rather work on other types of cases.
And not that I don't enjoy it, but I just, I mean, I'd rather not have the death penalty
as part of the equation.
And Rosalie married, she got married to Oscar while he was on death row.
That's correct.
Or right before he went there.
That just like blows my mind how, I mean, obviously there's a, it's common, right?
That people will marry other people that are on death row when they're free.
Sure.
Why do you, how does that happen?
How do, why do people do that?
You probably should ask Rosalie that question.
Probably should ask her.
But in your opinion, like, what is your, you know, you get, you get closer to these people
than I would think that I would say that they are, I mean, Rosalie is a very loving, caring
individual.
Yeah.
And, and Rosalie, genuinely, sincerely, has always believed and will always believe until
the day she dies that Oscar was innocent.
So that's just part of the equation as to why, I mean, you know, just because you're
below someone's innocent because you're caring and loving doesn't mean that you had to marry
someone on death row.
But the rest of the story, you'll have to ask Rosalie.
As far as the others, I mean, there's a lot of people, women that from all over the world
that will marry people on death row.
And I don't know, I don't really know why that is, but it's definitely a phenomenon.
I mean, it's, it happens, it's, people will send money to people on death row.
You actually get a, you almost have a higher status if you're on that throw than if you're
doing a life sentence.
Right.
I mean, it's like you're somebody.
Right.
Because you're going to be executed.
Because you're on that throw if, and I think maybe part of it is that other societies,
you know, Western European societies, it's so strange and so foreign to them, the concept
that this human being is going to be executed and killed that maybe that's why they step
out.
And there may be things going on in their lives, you know, and maybe, you know, their way of
telling some ex-husband, fuck you or something like that, you know, I mean, I don't know,
I don't know what the, you had to ask those, those women that, but I mean, but the ones
that I have met and I've met a few, all very nice, very kind, few people who have married
somebody else.
Sure.
Okay.
Yeah.
That was locked up.
Right.
Okay.
Right.
And the interest in people on that throw is just much greater than the interest of people
that are just doing a life sentence, unless you somehow gain notoriety during your trial,
you know, then you may still have that same thing.
But most people who were sentenced to life in prison, you know, you never hear about.
Right.
So like, just like Stark in general, like I just had this eerie feeling, just being
there the whole time, like the town obviously has a long history of executing notorious
murderers, right?
Like Ted Bundy was,
It's, it's where, it's, it's where it happens in Florida.
I mean,
In Florida, yeah.
Right.
Not the only place that has the only place.
Right.
Right.
That's where that throw is.
Yeah.
But that shouldn't reflect on the people that live in Stark.
No.
Right.
It had a vibe.
It just had a vibe.
Well, it probably had a vibe in part because you were there in the middle of, of, of, of
that's the reason why you're there.
Right.
Right.
And like the protesters and, and, you know, for both sides were there and we went to,
I mean, we even went to eat.
I mean, most of the people that we met out in the town, they worked at the prison.
Sure.
They were somehow involved with the prison.
Sure.
So like the town is fed off that prison.
It has the primary, you know, reason for survival up there.
Yeah.
Right.
It's just kind of dark.
It's just kind of dark.
Well, and, and, but throughout this country, you'll find prison towns and, and, and it's
a big business.
Prison is a big business.
Yeah.
I mean, that's probably, you know, I'm hopeful.
That's a whole nother podcast.
Right.
But I'm hoping that, that there's the legislation, the U.S. Legislature and Senate that they're
going to come up with some new legislation here before the end of the year that's going
to give us some relief.
I mean.
Is that what they won't be run for like profit?
No, that that's going to give more discretion to like, you know, reduce some of these outrageous
sentences.
Right.
I mean, we've been in this, you know, really almost the entire time that I've been practicing
criminal offense law, we've been in this, you know, let's lock them up, you know, throw
away the key and, and warehouse people attitude.
And so, I mean, we have a lot of people that are doing life sentences for drug offenses
that are just like, that aren't that big, didn't harm anyone.
I mean, they didn't, you know, yeah, they provided.
Just to people.
And unfortunately, there's a huge demand for, for drugs and it will always be there until
we fixed the, the, the addiction aspect of it if it can be fixed.
So but instead we just keep locking people up.
And so families, you know, don't have fathers and, and, and mothers and I mean, it's just,
it's been crazy.
So they're finally starting to realize, wait a minute, we need to like maybe come up with
some sort of a escape valve of sorts that's going to, you know, give some discretion to
let some of these people out a little earlier.
Right.
Now, when you described to me the first time you went to death row, the guy that you saw
who gave you a certain stare that made you feel it like pierced you pierced your soul.
Can you explain to me the difference between certain kinds of people that you meet on death
row on, on murder, capital murder, right?
Like the difference between people like that guy who you saw that was staring at you or
people like maybe for instance, Oscar Boland, right?
So first of all, the person that I actually visited with was, was a wonderful, wonderful
guy, was a father, had, had two children that left behind when he, when he was sentenced
to death and, and he had found purpose on death row.
I mean, he, he, he was able to interact to some degree with other inmates, younger inmates
and was able to convey a message of, you know, when you get out, stay out of trouble and
try to have a better life.
But there was a guy, and I'm not going to name him because, you know, there's no need
for that, but, but there was a guy that, that was sitting across from him and, and he did
have, and I don't understand, I was 22, I was 22 years old at the time, skinny little
college kid, and he had a piercing look.
I mean, he, he, and, and knowing his history, probably as close to the psychopath, if not
a psychopath, that did you come and, and basically, when I say psychopath, it's someone who doesn't
have any feelings or, or, or, or they're lost way, way inside of him somewhere.
They don't realize right from wrong and, I don't know if, I don't know if they realized
right from wrong, but they just don't have, it's like no one's home.
It's like, it's, it's like, there's no, there's a disconnect or something.
There's a complete disconnect, and, and, you know, at the time, it was the first time I'd
really ever seen anything like that, and, and I've dealt with a few clients, not many,
just in a handful, who were similar in the sense that it did, there was no, no feelings,
no empathy.
The majority of people on death row and in prison are people that have empathy, that
have feelings.
The, one of my clients who, who was probably of similar nature, although he never had that
piercing stare that, that, that I so vividly remember from death row, was a person who
was a, admitted serial killer, and, you know, I, I specifically remember sitting in court
with him when one of the women who fortunately was able to escape and, and, and, and survive
his, his attack was telling the jury about her experience on I-4 and how she was initially
tied up, sitting in the car, watching families on their way to Disney World, you know, kids
happy and, and, and, and she talks about how she basically was certain that she was about
to get, you know, killed and maybe raped and, and that this was the end and, and as he's
describing what happened and, and she, so she was a petite woman and she had convinced
my client to allow her to be untied and, and, and to sit next to him because I don't know
if you remember the story about Ted Bundy where the door handle is broken and the window
crank, but this is before they had the power windows, the window was, was not working.
So basically he was trapped, he couldn't get out.
Right.
Um, and, um, so she's describing all of this.
And he had it set up like that.
He had it set up, it was set up like that.
I mean, that was his, I mean, admittedly, I mean, he, he's the one that came forward
later on, uh, and, and brought the authorities to some of his victims and, and, uh, what
have you.
But I remember her telling the story and, and at, at one point she says, and then he
stabbed me in the leg with his knife and my client got all upset and, and, and, and,
and said some derogatory words about her to me and, and, and says to me, I didn't stab
her.
I cut her.
And it's, you know, basically you're completely missing the whole point.
Right.
Right.
No, it doesn't really matter.
And, and you know, but the sad thing about someone like him is that he had a horrific
childhood and, and, you know, I don't believe it's genetic.
I think, I think it's, it is behavior that repeats itself and, and then some people are
just so horrifically abused that they, they can't feel, they can't, they, they, they're
incapable of, of, of, of loving and, and showing emotions and caring because they've just been.
Nobody ever gave it to them.
They never had anything.
They never had, you know, the safety of a home.
Right.
They never had the safety of parents that would provide for them.
They never, you know, they were abused by the people that were supposed to love them.
You know, so I don't, I, I like to think that that we're all born as decent human beings
and, and, and unfortunately some of us get a real bad hand and, and, and sometimes turns
us into people that just don't have feelings and, and, but those are few and far between.
Like I said, I've represented thousands of individuals mostly on very serious crimes
and, and, and the vast majority of them are good people who had a bad day or a bad week
and, and made a bad decision, made a bad decision.
Yeah.
And certainly not someone that should be locked up and have the key thrown away.
So.
Wow.
And what happened eventually when this guy gave up a bunch of evidence towards a bunch
of other crimes?
Right.
So he'd, so this guy, you know, he was on, he was serving life for kidnapping of the
woman who survived and he had been on serving life for about 10 years and this guy's name
or no.
No, I prefer not.
I prefer not.
Um, the, um, so he ends up contacting law enforcement to basically say, um, uh, I want
to help you guys solve some murders and, and the reason he wanted it was twofold.
He wanted to go on field trips with law enforcement, you know, he was a manipulator for sure.
He wanted to go on field trips with law enforcement.
So he'd take a stop at McDonald's and get a burger and, you know, what have you.
But also he was tired of being in general population.
He was tired of being, you know, in prison, serving time with a bunch of other people
serving life sentence.
And so he, you know, he, he, his, his statement was that he wanted to be on death row to go
to death.
Right.
Now, initially they didn't really believe him, uh, then on one of the victims, he basically
told them about a newspaper article that, you know, it was 20 years earlier or 15 years
earlier about a skull that was found in a particular river here in central Florida.
And he said, uh, you know, you go to FDLE evidence locker, you get that skull, you take
a DNA sample from the skull and you go to this woman in North Carolina and you get
her DNA and you'll find out that the woman in North Carolina is the mother of the victim.
And sure enough, that's what it was.
And this guy, this guy was, I mean, he would, he would remove all the teeth.
He would remove the jaw and he would, and everything would be dispersed in different
areas.
So very difficult to make an identification.
Usually you do identifications from dental dental and so you couldn't do it because they
were all missing.
They're all extracted.
Um, so our only real argument to keep him from going on death row, uh, at that point
and by that time he was kind of wishy washy about where he wanted to go, but was that
he had provided information to help them solve all, you know, these other murders.
Um, the, um, but the, the woman who testified about her experience on I4 was so powerful
that, um, you know, he ended up on death row.
Um, and, um, he lived there a few years until I received a phone call on, I think it was
on a Saturday morning from the chaplain at the Florida state prison, basically telling
me that he had died during the night.
He had died from execution or natural causes during the night.
He had cancer.
Okay.
And, um, and I remember saying to him, so what, you know, why are you calling me?
Why are you calling me?
I mean, you know, and, and evidently he had put me down as the person to contact in case
of an emergency.
You were the only one he put in.
I was the only one.
I was the only one he had.
There was no one, no one else and, um, and I said, and I said, well, what does that mean?
And, and he said, well, if you do nothing, we're going to bury him on the prison grounds.
And, but if you're willing to pay for his cremation, which was like $300 or something
like that, um, then you can get, get his ashes and take him off the prison grounds.
And so I paid for his cremation and got him out of prison.
Wow.
That's insane.
So you still have this guy's ashes?
No.
Um, uh, a, uh, Catholic priest who knew him, um, gave him a proper burial and so he's been
buried somewhere in the Jacksonville area.
Incredible story.
Do you, I mean, do you ever get any kind of criticism for, for the humanism you display
with the people that you associate with, the people you defend and I mean, a lot of people,
I'm sure don't understand it, I've, I've, I've received hate mail.
I've received, uh, phone threatening phone calls.
Um, um, I've had to shut down my Facebook page because of, of, of, uh, angry, uh, people
who don't really understand, you know, I don't endorse criminal activity.
I don't endorse killing people.
I, I, I don't, you know, uh, I, I wouldn't want to experience the pain of having lost
a loved one, um, you know, but I, but I recognize that as I said earlier in life as a bunch
of different shades of gray, it's not black and white and we're all fellow human beings.
And so I have no problems doing what I do and, and I have no problems, uh, trying to
humanize someone who, when you, at first reflection may appear to be a monster.
I mean, that's my, that's my job in those type of cases and, and, and, um, I think I'm
good at it and, and, and, um, I'll keep doing it.
So what do you think the biggest thing in your career, um, representing these drug cases,
these murder cases, what is the biggest thing that you've learned that you've taken away
from all of it?
Whether it be a personal thing or something like a message to project out into society,
is there one thing that you could, that you can point out that's like, yes, that's the
one thing that, that I've learned from all these people and from all these experiences?
Yeah.
I think probably the biggest thing that I've learned, I mean, and I thought about that
a little bit, um, um, and I'm going back and forth on it, but, so, um, I think, um,
when I, when I first became a defense lawyer, uh, I thought that my biggest problem as a
defense lawyer would be to represent people who were charged with DIY manslaughter or
people who had done something because they were under the influence.
And the reason for that was that my dad struggled with alcohol and drug addiction, and I had
this incredibly strong belief that it was a choice and, and, and, and, you know, that
it was no excuse.
And, and I, what I've learned over the years is, you know, we all have struggles, uh, and,
and I have no problems representing people that, because the majority of the people that
I represent do stupid stuff when they're under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
And they're generally good people.
They're people that have a story that may have a reason why they ended up being addicted.
I mean, I have, I've represented wonderful veterans who, who, um, um, did incredible
deeds for the United States and then put the PTSD and, and, and, uh, you know, it's a struggle.
Life has become a struggle.
And, and, um, um, one of the things that, that, that I tried to talk to potential jurors
about, especially in, in criminal cases is the fact that we're all different and we all
deal with adversity in different ways.
And some of us are better at it and some of us are not so good at it, but we're all still
the same.
And, and so I think the biggest thing that I've learned from it, um, is I think I have
a better understanding of people and people that, you know, commit crimes.
Um, and, uh, and I think the, the, the biggest message, I think that, that I would, you
know, tell young lawyers or people that would be involved in, in doing what I do is to learn
to listen, you know, to learn to listen to your clients, uh, their families, their stories
and then help convey that to show, you know, that there are decent people who just misunderstood
and made some bad decisions.
Right.
So, all right.
Wow.
Heavy shit.
Good enough for tonight.
Pretty good.
Awesome, man.
Anything, anything for the future, anything now in the, in the near future exciting you
got going on or I got a bunch of stuff going on, but, um, don't really want to talk about
the ongoing cases, but, uh, I'm going to keep doing this for a long time.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Well, thank you so much for coming on today.
I learned a lot and, uh, some pretty incredible stories.
All right.
Thanks again.
You're welcome.
Thanks for doing it.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
