Alright, Manny Pwig. How are you doing, sir?
Good. Talking's easy, so we'll talk all you want.
So you came all the way here from Fort Lauderdale, from your home in Fort Lauderdale.
Yes.
Thank you for coming out. We got some amazing trident from you, which we'll show later.
I enjoy making them.
They're probably one of the coolest things I've ever seen. Very primitive weapon.
Definitely a very primitive weapon.
Yeah, I'm a very primitive guy. I'm like old fashioned in many ways.
That's amazing. So for the people out there who may not comprehend completely, tell me who is Manny Pwig?
There's no title to what I do. I interact with sharks, alligators, venomous snakes.
Also, I make medieval weapons. I'm an artist. I do the kind of stuff I like doing.
And I free dive. A lot of breath hole diving. I've done scuba diving also.
I've been bent nine times. I've blacked out once.
But I spend a lot of time in the water. I'm more aquatic than land-based. Let's put it this way.
And when you say you've been bent, you mean you got the bends?
Is that what you're talking about when you get blood or bubbles in your bloodstream?
Nitrogen in your blood. We're commercial spearfishing back in the old days.
You do too many dives. That's what happens. You go too deep. You don't decompress enough.
You're in a hurry. You get bent.
And what happens? People die from outer...
You get tremendous pain. One time I got paralyzed.
Where like in your chest you get the pain?
Shoulders, joints, wherever it hits you, it can kill you. Wherever the bubble gets stuck.
Or you can give your paralysis. I got a paralyzed arm. I had to go...
I started getting my field back, but I went down back on the water to repress air bubbles.
Gas bubbles to get them through your system. I've never been to a chamber.
But I really don't like to dive too much because of that reason. I don't want to get bent anymore.
What kind of depths do you have to go to to get bent like that?
You can get bent as long as you're deeper than 33 feet.
If you're less than 30 feet, you can't get bent.
Even if you're down there 24 hours.
Now, if you're in 40 feet of water and you stay down there 10 hours,
you'll come up, you'll be bent.
At 50 feet, you got like 10 minutes. At 60 feet, you got...
Well, no, I mean 40 minutes.
That's how long you have to come up.
I think it's been a long time. One hour at 60 feet, 40 minutes at 80 feet,
and 20 minutes at 100 feet.
So if you stay beyond that, you can get bent.
I mean, you can push the tables and get away with it.
We did it a lot, but there's a possibility you don't know when you push a limit
and how fast are you breathing, how many... We have computers now
to try to help you.
Monitor all the...
That can't happen free diving, right?
Yes, I can.
It can happen free diving.
If you deep dive, if you free dive very deep
and you continuously do it all day long,
like if you're spearfishing at 120, 150 feet,
you start adding up your bottom time.
So at the end of the day, if you've done enough drops,
you'll come home, you'll be bent.
So it happens.
That's crazy. I didn't know you could do that free diving.
What's deep for you for free diving?
I've done maybe 180, 200 before.
I couldn't mark fast 165, but I blew an eardrum doing it.
And normally, deep for me would be like 140 to shoot a fish,
130, 140 around there.
I'm just talking, going down there.
At 110 feet, I stayed 40 seconds on the bottom.
I timed myself.
I laid on the sand and I'd see how comfortable it was.
So I laid down there for 40 seconds
and I swam back up at 110.
So I've done stuff like that.
Sometimes, you know, you're struggling with a fish
or you don't know how long you go beyond
or you're hand catching fish.
That'll take you down there a long time sometimes.
Right, because sometimes if you're chasing a fish
that you've shot, you kind of like, you forget about,
okay, I have 100 feet of water above me.
I have to keep that, be mindful of that
while I'm chasing this fish.
There's a lot of factors come involved.
I've held my breath five minutes and 35 seconds before.
Is that a record?
No, the people can do more.
That's good.
That's really good.
Yeah, it's really good.
But the people, they actually, you know, do more.
I don't know.
I swam 400 feet underwater too.
That's another thing while holding my breath.
I've done that.
And that's like my tops.
I have a hard time equalizing when I'm real deep.
So I'm better at that than I am at deep diving, let's say.
I'm limited by my ears.
We should have had a swimming pool here and done the contest
where you go back and forth.
Do you ever make bets with people where you say,
I bet you can go back and forth six times.
You gotta do like 60.
When I blacked out, I was in a swimming pool training.
Really?
Yeah, back and forth doing the same thing, you know,
hyperventilate, do a few laps, a few laps until like,
when I passed out, I didn't even know I had passed out.
That's a killer.
You have no idea.
You're interfering with my training.
That was my things, you know, I would say something like that.
And no, they weren't interfering or saving me.
Right.
You completely passed out and somebody came in there and saved your life.
The people I was swimming with.
Wow.
God.
So the first time I ever heard about you and the first time I learned about you,
I'm sure like most people was during the days when you were on
Jackass and on Wild Boys.
How did you get involved with those guys?
And can you explain to me, walk me through how that whole thing happened?
How did you start working with Steve Oh and all those guys?
From their point of view, I heard they saw some videos of me and Animal Planet
levitating an alligator in a swamp.
We're in a speedo.
So I think it's a speedo.
It was a speedo.
Not the alligator.
Never mind the alligator.
Probably that.
Yeah, that definitely sold Steve Oh.
They thought that was really awesome.
So they said, who's this sexy guy in the speedo holding the alligator?
We need him now.
Yeah.
So then they told me these Jackass guys are looking for you.
They want to do something with you.
And they go, people tell them they're really, really dumb guys.
That's the first thing I heard.
Yeah.
These guys are really bad.
They're really dumb dumb.
I'm telling you the dumb.
And eventually I ran into them.
And we, yeah, first day out, Steve Oh gets ran over by an airboat
and he put to warm up his nose.
Johnny Knox wants to get bit by rattlesnake on purpose.
And years later, I showed him my hand.
Hey, this is why I didn't want you to get bit by rattlesnake.
You understand?
I told him that.
That's from a rattlesnake?
Yes.
Oh my God.
A lot of your photo, you put your hand out to show your finger.
It's a signature mark to make sure it's, it's not, it's not an imposter.
It's the right guy.
You know, everybody knows that.
Lots of finger to rattlesnake.
Okay.
This is, it's me.
It's him.
It's kind of like a joke.
There's no fake man.
There's no fake man.
You can't impersonate.
Steve, Steve took a picture of it first thing when he saw it
and send it to Jeff Romain.
He was laughing.
Look at this guy.
Take a picture.
But I got bit by rattlesnake in high school.
I was 17 years old.
Really?
What were you doing?
Picking it up the same way that I got bit by Western Diamondback.
The same style of repeat.
The whole thing with a bigger rattlesnake.
And that one, I said, I, when I looked at myself, I, I'm thinking, I really messed
up this time.
Where was this at?
Texas.
Texas.
So at 15, you're already like catching animals and doing all that stuff.
Yeah.
High school levels and catching large alligators.
By hand, I was picking up venomous snakes.
I was doing all that kind of stuff.
Spear fishing.
What made you want to do this at such a young age?
What got you into it?
Was there something that inspired you to do this or?
I think I saw too many like Tarzan movies, Sea Hunt.
Yeah.
You know, Lloyd Bridges, Jungle Gym underwater fighting with alligators, all these different,
I saw these different aquatic and, you know, wildlife guys and all that stuff.
And that really, you know, got me inspired.
Wow.
So what happened when you got bit when you were young?
What did you have to do after you got bit?
You just had to go to the hospital or what?
I ended up in the hospital.
My friends started to tell me, you better, I think, well, what are we supposed to do?
You know, and, you know, you're watching too many movies and they go, well, they're
supposed to get drunk or something like that.
And then the guy, the friends are all looking at me kind of funny like that.
I think we better take you to the hospital.
Let's just take you home.
And then when I got to the hospital, I was worried about how much it was going to cost.
Yeah.
And they told me, you want to keep that hand, you better lay down there and let us get to
work on you.
Yeah.
What did they have to do to you to get rid of the venom or before they?
Anti-venom is what they did.
Anti-venom and then they were, back then they would try to suck the poison out of you with
a suction cup.
Now, later on, they don't do it anymore.
No.
They just take it to the hospital and they put you on anti-venom.
They hold your arm up high, you know, to keep the swelling down.
Yeah.
Now the amount of venom, I grabbed that rattlesnake by the neck and he made a half a turn on me.
He got both fangs in one finger.
And you know, I held them and I picked them up and I told the producer, it got me.
And he goes, no, no, it didn't.
It did.
So he was like, oh no, everybody's like froze.
And I think Buck Medley goes, let's go to the hospital.
That was the guy I was with before many dies.
Let's go like right now.
So we got in our car, we're going about 110 miles an hour all the way to the hospital.
This was for the recent bite.
Yeah.
For the last one.
That was a diamond back, you said?
Western diamond back about six feet long.
It was a monster.
Where were you?
Texas.
In Texas too.
Yeah.
It's like, I don't really want to pick up any more venomous snakes after the second one.
That was just, I'm still recuperating 10 years later.
What was going through your mind when that happened?
Like what were you thinking?
What did you, what were you trying to do?
Like were you, did you like tie a?
No, I didn't do, didn't tie anything to it.
No tourniquet or anything?
It was really like bummed out.
It's almost like you got on a flat tire in the middle of nowhere.
It was a really, you know, depressing feeling.
Do you feel like woozy from it?
No, I don't feel woozy or anything.
I just felt tremendous pain and no time.
It just got, I knew what I was into.
I knew it was going to be horrific.
And then it was so bad.
I could feel the venom.
I was praying the whole way, praying to God the whole way to the hospital.
I'm a Christian, so I was praying, you know, God keep me around for a little bit longer.
For more time.
I felt like I wasn't going to make it.
Really? Really?
In that sense.
Yeah, I went away to the hospital.
When I got in there, they were taking their time in the hospital warming up the core fat.
That's what they injected with.
And I said, well, we're going to, I said, you getting warmed up yet?
How long had it been by the time you got to the hospital?
About 45 minutes.
And I'm like, I need about 55 gallon drum or that stuff you got there.
Yeah.
I said, this snake was enormous.
I have a ton of venom in me.
And if you guys don't put a lot of that stuff in me,
it's going to really mess me up.
I told them that.
They're all taking their time.
Yeah, you're thinking, hurry the hell out.
Well, they got to go like this and warm it up with their hands.
The core fat, because it's kept like frozen to preserve it.
So it was like, man, they should have had it ready before I got here because we called it in.
It happens in Texas so often that they don't care.
There were three people in the hospital that day counting me that were bit by rattlesnake.
Really? No way.
Yeah, that's like, it's no big deal over there.
That's crazy.
Yeah, like I had a finger that was all black, like mine was getting.
And he goes, he had told my friend, oh yeah, I'm probably going to lose that finger.
And sure enough, they told me, well, it looks like your finger might make it.
I went back home to Miami a few weeks later.
They let me out after four days.
I couldn't even get inside an airplane to go home.
I stayed in Buck medley's house laying in a bed there for two weeks.
Damn.
I could hardly do anything.
I couldn't even pick up a cup of coffee with that hand.
And the pain was tremendous.
Then when I got home, my in-law took me to the hospital and the doctor said,
you got to stay here.
The fingers got to come off.
Oh man.
Okay, let's get it off right now then.
Just the finger was in like tremendous pain.
It wasn't your whole body.
No, well, the hand.
Just the hand.
The arm.
The swelling went all the way up my arm, all the way to like the side of my body.
I had swollen everywhere.
It was like a balloon.
I mean, tremendously, like being puffed up.
Right.
But when you were on the way to the hospital,
when they were driving 100 miles and now trying to get you there,
like were you just sitting, were you holding your arm up?
Did you, were you doing anything specific to try to hopefully like stop the venom from spreading into your body?
They had some frozen chicken.
They had picked up a store over there and I put my hand on the frozen chicken.
And I found out later they're not even supposed to do that.
Oh.
So that was a wrong thing to do also.
You're not supposed to get it cold.
You're not supposed to do anything but go to the hospital.
Yeah.
That's what they say.
Just go there as fast as you can.
Go there as fast as you can and, you know, try to relax.
I was relaxed.
I wasn't, I wasn't freaking out.
I wasn't agitated.
I was more like bummed out.
Yeah.
Right.
You know, I've been through some stuff.
I mean, on the outdoor channel, I had that rattlesnake bite.
I also got bit by an alligator in the back.
The only time I ever been bit by an alligator in my entire life of messing with alligators,
he snuck up behind me and bit me when I wasn't looking.
So he grabbed the wetsuit and peeled off my back.
So he was not able to get a good grip on me.
So that's, again, the good Lord saved me from that one.
It was a 10 footer snuck up from behind in a canal.
I was swimming down.
I thought my friend, the Indian guide had hit me with the airboat.
Wait a minute.
I heard an airboat.
Did he just run me over?
What's going on?
You're in the boat.
Boat was like 50 yards behind.
What?
And when the alligator, and I could hear the airboat coming,
the alligator didn't care.
He must have come out of cover and got me from behind.
I was too lazy to look behind me.
And then I faced him off.
I chased him and harassed him.
So he wouldn't attack me again.
And then I didn't know what was wrong with me.
I got in the airboat.
I said, well, I'm able to get in the airboat.
I peeled the wetsuit back and I told, let me know.
I told everybody what's wrong with my back.
Let me know.
Yeah.
And it goes wasn't bad at all.
12 scratches.
That's it.
That's it.
I was going to, I got to go to shore and put a bottle of bleach on it.
Like right now.
That's what I said.
Bleach.
Yeah.
It kills all the bacteria.
Holy shit.
That's pretty rough.
Not like alcohol.
It's a straight bleach.
A straight bleach.
A rattlesnake.
I mean, an alligator can kill you just like a rattlesnake with a bacteria in its mouth.
Oh, really?
Even if you survive his bite, he can rot you.
He eats dead animals sometimes and not just living things.
Right.
So, you know, anything I have, an alligator is a very dangerous animal.
No question about it.
So if you get bit by an alligator, don't bleach on it.
Not bleach alcohol.
The doctor will tell you, you know, the guys in the woods, the alligator hunters and the
crazy people tell you to put bleach on it.
Okay.
I trust him.
So let's just clear that right away.
That's not medical field.
Right.
This is, you know.
It's not FDA approved.
No, no, not FDA.
This is Woodsmen technology there.
I would definitely trust them before the doctors, I think.
Yeah.
I would too.
I also got gored by a boar.
Gored by a boar.
Yeah.
Well, it was something boar with a spear.
He cut a tendon in my arm and he got my leg.
I was shooting blood out of my arm like a, like a sword gun.
Well, he bit me.
Yeah.
I ended up bare hand to hand with a, with a boar.
And you were hunting him here in Florida?
Yes.
With a spear?
With a spear.
It's a great idea and a bad idea at the same time.
Right.
Boars are very dangerous.
Right.
They make me nervous.
Do they really?
Yeah.
Out of all the crocodiles and the sharks.
The boars.
The boars.
If you're hunting a boar on, you know, on foot, on the ground with a spear, you're
in problem.
If you've got bay dogs, you're in danger.
If you've got a catch dog, you're pretty safe.
How big do those get?
A boar in Florida, I've known of them to be like 500 pounds.
Yeah.
But normally it's like 150 pounds.
If you get one like 220, you got a really nice one.
I know what guy's been doing his entire life.
He got one 400 pounder.
You ever, do you eat those or no?
Yes.
You do?
Yeah.
They're good.
Really?
Interesting.
You know, you got to take care of it properly.
Yeah.
Cook it right and everything, but yeah, it's good meat.
Really good.
Wow.
Interesting.
Yeah.
The conquistadors brought him here.
Hernando de Soto.
Okay.
500 years ago.
Wow.
And they let him lose some Florida.
Really?
Yeah.
So they've been here ever since, but like your Florida panther, the Florida mountain
line depends on them.
That's his main source of food, not the whitetail deer in Florida.
Right.
That's what's increasing their population by the way.
And also the bears eat them sometimes too.
Really?
Alligators also eat them.
Wow.
They in turn they'll eat, you know, whatever they'll eat a baby deer, they'll eat gator
eggs and everything eats everything.
There's tons of them here though, right?
Certain areas is more than others.
They like, they favor a certain type of terrain and other areas are heavily hunted because
they're not, they're not protected like whitetail deer and everything else.
So a lot of people are relentlessly hunting them.
Some people don't want them on their property.
Some people want them on their property.
If you like boar hunting and you take people boar hunting, you want them on your property.
Right.
And if you're a farmer and they're eating up your crops, you don't want them around.
Right.
Or some ranchers complain to tear up the grass.
They're uprooted.
Okay.
Which is what cows, you know, they need to sod, you know, the grass.
Right.
At what age were you when you started getting serious in the ocean with like breath holding
and doing serious free diving and spear fishing?
I learned how to swim at six and I was already interested.
So I would put on a mask and look around and, you know, shallow water.
And as soon as I could, I think it was like 14 when I had my first spear gun.
And I started from there.
I had a tiny little spear gun with shooting grunts.
Okay.
And then, you know, Barracuda's, Mori Eels, anything to swim, you know, that kind of stuff.
Wow.
And then I went from spear guns to commercial spear fishing to pole spears and to hand fishing.
The hand fishing is the most primitive type of fishing.
Now I like to fish with my tridents.
Yeah.
But I do enjoy the challenge of catching a fish by hand.
By hand.
Yeah.
Fresh water, salt water, wherever I've been.
So what happened?
It just, you kind of just got so good at using all of those other, you went from, started
from with the spear gun and worked your way down to a trident or just with your bare hands.
You did more of a challenge.
You just got so good at it.
Yeah.
It's more fun.
Not that I'm not the best spear fisherman in the world.
I'm good.
I'm good enough to make my living at it.
But some of these other world champion people, all that.
Yeah.
They're better than me at spear fishing.
At hand fishing.
I don't know who beats you in hand fishing, in essence.
I mean, I've hand caught many different types of sharks.
I've hand caught about probably 40 or 50 different types of fish before by hand.
I've done a lot, a lot of hand fishing.
It's outsmarting the fish and figuring out how you can get your hands on them.
It's challenging.
It's fun.
I like doing that.
So what, like what, walk me through what it takes to go hand, I mean, what kind of fish
do you go hand fishing for?
Like what is like?
I mean, I've hand caught groupers, snappers, mako sharks, silky sharks, nurse sharks, lemon
sharks, all kinds of tilapia in freshwater, tilapia, garfish, catfish.
I did a caught catfish by hand, even in Florida.
I did in Louisiana.
I got a 72 pound flathead catfish.
Wow.
What's the technique?
You just, I mean, fish are fast.
So you just got a noodle.
Super stealth.
Every fish has a different technique.
Okay.
Like if you're after a red grouper, he'll go in a hole.
Right.
So you reach in a hole and you grab them.
Oh, okay.
That's it.
Well, it's, you got to know how to work them out of a hole and not get a grip on them and
else and don't get bit by Mori in the process.
I have a hard enough time shooting a grouper in a hole.
Well, sometimes you can't shoot them because he's up and wedged inside of a hole in an
angle.
So then you put your spear gun down, you reach in with your hand and catch them.
So a lot of guys go, oh, I can't get them.
They go home.
No, you just reach in there and you grab them.
But on your, make sure you got your glove on, reach in and grab them because it goes in
a hole like this.
And sideways, you can't put your, bend your spear gun up in there like that.
Right.
You can reach your whole arm.
Reach your arm and turn it up in there and grab them.
And you grab them by whatever you can grab.
Usually the tail first.
Okay.
You want to get your hands in through his gills.
Okay.
Get a grip on his gills to work them out.
Sometimes you get a grip on them and you can't get the grouper in your hand out of the hole
at the same time.
So you got to figure it out.
Right.
I've also caught, you know, like munt snapper, mangro snapper.
Also, when they go into ledges by hand and I've caught a fish in midwater, like gars,
hold the light on them at night and swim that and grab them.
I've caught one of those guards like that at night and regular guards actually in the
daytime.
I've managed to catch them by hand before.
And they'll do that by swimming under the water.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You go at night with the light, shine the light on them or has somebody shine the light
when you let go of your light and you ease your hand close to the fish and you're really,
really close to them.
Yeah.
Of course you got gloves on and wetsuit.
Grab his bill as fast as you can, but you got to be close to get them.
Make a shark, hand feed it.
When he's eating out of your hand, you reach around and grab it.
He's the fastest shark in the world, so you're not going to chase him down.
Right.
Of course.
You're going to let him.
You can bring him to you.
Yeah.
Let him push up into you.
And what do you do with the make a shark once you catch it with your hands?
You play, hang out and enjoy the catch and let it go.
So he takes off and you just get, you just go for the ride?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It takes off.
Yeah.
If you tackle him, he tries to jump out of the water.
Really?
So you're up catching air the whole time, so you're able to hold onto him.
And then if he's small enough, I can lift him right out of the water.
Okay.
I was catching and releasing.
We were doing video.
If I was in the middle of nowhere and there was no video, I would have probably kept the
Mako and ate it.
Yeah.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
And took it home and trophy, jaws, everything else.
So he's going to get video or meat.
One of the two.
That's my mentality.
You can't make the two.
Yeah.
I'm a hunter sometimes, you know, especially when there's no camera.
And then when the camera, you know, then you're catching and releasing and just a complete
different, you know, when we go out in the water, what are we doing today?
Are we going to...
Right.
You're filming and educating people.
We're going to catch fish to let go.
You know, then you, you figure out what the game plan is and that's what you do.
What do you enjoy more?
Keeping it from meat or...
It's got to be the hunting, right?
I like the hunting.
Yeah.
I like to keep it, but the video is good because you can go home and look at your hunt over
and over again.
So it's, it's, uh, it's awesome.
Kind of perfect what you're doing.
And what's the biggest fish you've ever caught by hand?
Uh, 400 pound Goliath.
Close to that.
A Goliath grouper.
Yeah.
It's, there's no good video on it.
Yeah.
I got some pictures of it.
What was that like?
It was eight people watching 40 feet of water free diving all day.
Yeah.
At the end, the fish kept dodging me and finally he got mad and attacked me.
He bit, he went inside a cave.
He bit me twice and shook me violently.
So I knew, I knew what to do.
So I was new at doing that kind of stuff.
So I went up for air and I went down and then he swallowed my arm all the way to my shoulder.
And then I grabbed the whole of his gill plate and I started backing up with him.
So once I was able to horse him out of the cave, I could move him up as long as I go in circles,
spinning all the way back to the surface.
We caught him and let him go.
I caught six of them by hand.
Some of the stuff was seen around on TV and all that.
And I remember the federal government asked me, I had a medium.
They asked me not to do it anymore.
Really?
Were they seeing your videos in the context?
Yeah, somebody called in, they complained about it and this and that.
And then they said, you know, the guy said, hey, you know, you're not allowed to do this.
It was an awesome catch by the way.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
But he said, you have 50% temporary possession of the fish.
And they said there's a no take.
Now the state lets you catch them and release them as long as you don't take them out of the water.
So it's a little more, more lenient.
The feds may still have the same deal.
I don't know.
That's in state waters.
I know people catch and release them.
I guess I could hand catch another one.
I don't know.
They're so overpopulated.
You would think that they would, the federal government would start to change that, right?
Because they're everywhere.
They're waiting for the fishermen to get together, have a meeting and decide what to do.
The reason hasn't happened because nobody's really sat down with them.
And now they're, the game of fish basically works for the hunters and fishermen.
They're here to preserve the industry.
So what do you want to do?
How many colliders come?
You know, the idea is to catch, harvest an amount that doesn't destroy the population.
So I know that's what they want to do.
Just like everything else.
So the numbers are high.
Okay.
You can harvest.
You don't want to fish them where you can't find them anymore.
Right.
Of course.
You want to fish them like the tarpon.
You know, they're regulated.
You can catch them.
There's over abundance of tarpon out there.
Right.
Snook.
They're protected.
There's tons of snook out there.
Look at the cold weather that year.
How many are killed?
What a waste.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, yeah, that's, that's, I mean, I'm interested in all that stuff.
The numbers, I like conservation as far as numbers are concerned, you know, I've, you
know, management, I believe in, and properly managing, you know, take a certain amount
when you can, then you don't like certain times, certain types of hunting actually increase
the animal population.
You know, everything got to be balanced out and then you got to, you know, you got to
know what you're doing.
Right.
I, I like all that stuff, but I like, I've always liked all my, my adventures.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's, I mean, there's a huge controversy over that kind of stuff, like with the quotas
and stuff like that and how the federal government controls all that kind of like stocks.
I think the problem is that everybody has a personal agenda, you know, you got to be
fair to everybody and somebody thinks this way, somebody thinks that way.
You know, you want to, like certain areas of some divers have, you know, pet-glot group
and they feed it and they all, everybody goes there to take pictures.
Okay.
Maybe that area doesn't need to be opened up.
Right.
Nobody needs to go in there and kill that fish.
Right.
And then you have another area where there's plenty of out there and diver, you know, people
say, okay, you guys got your, your photography area here and we got a hunting area here.
Right.
I think that should be, that should be fair.
Right, right.
You know, there's plenty of water out there and there's plenty of woods, there's plenty
of everything for everybody.
There's plenty of alligators out there, there's Florida, there's plenty of bears more than
ever before.
There's plenty of wild boar, there's plenty of deer, plenty of fish.
Right.
There's a lot of, there's a lot of stuff.
A lot of areas, we have a lot of glath grouper.
You know, certain fish are lower than others, sharks are come back tremendously.
Yeah.
Nobody's really fishing.
The ocean is actually extremely dangerous right now to go spear fishing, I would say.
More now than ever?
More now than ever.
Why is that?
Because there's more sharks.
More sharks.
Why are there so many sharks right now?
There's a special long-lining form.
So the population, many species are protected, the population's increased, increased to the
point that, you know.
Well, there's more sharks.
Yeah.
I mean, you want high adventure, go spear fishing, you know, you can be fighting for your life
out there.
Right.
Yeah, it's great.
It's, you know, you want the real jungle out there, it's there, it's real, you'll get
eaten out there.
Yeah, we were talking earlier, when we were on the phone earlier, you were telling me
about, I was telling you about like surfing in New Sumerna, how there's literally black
tips everywhere, just paddling out in like, right when you get off the beach, before you
even get out to the sandbar, they're just hydroplaning through the waves everywhere.
I would not do that.
You wouldn't do it?
No, there's no vis out there.
I wouldn't want to swim in New Sumerna.
It doesn't solve anything for me.
The only thing you're going to get out there is you're going to get bit.
I mean, it's like Russian roulette out there, you know, okay, yeah, I served through a pack
of sharks today.
The next day, you might get killed and eaten, you know.
How often do people get bit by sharks?
In New Sumerna?
In New Sumerna?
New Sumerna, every week, right?
Yeah, every week.
Really?
Yeah, that's shark attack capital of the world.
Really?
You don't mind Australia and South Africa or any of that.
Oh man, I didn't even know that.
You want to get bit, you want to go on the list of surfers, go to New Sumerna.
No, I'm cool.
Not being on that list.
I was at a surf shop over there and I asked him, who's been bitten by shark here and you
see all the surfers in there, all raise your hands.
Damn, that's crazy.
I didn't even know that.
But the thing is, the sharks are a lot smaller and they're not as dangerous as other places.
Okay, a five foot black bite to your inner leg, cut your artery, you're going to die
just as fast if a thousand pound tiger bit you.
Yeah.
You know, you're going to die either way.
So it is still very extremely dangerous.
So if your leg is dangling the water, there's a good chance if that thing bites you, it's
going to hit an artery.
Yeah, it could hit an artery.
You could be okay.
But it ain't like it's not like a little squirrel bit your zone.
I don't know.
It's a bad bite.
It can be any shark bite is bad.
Yeah.
Any shark.
It's got rages in your mouth and they'll cut you up real bad.
Have you been bit by a shark?
Four different kinds.
What kinds?
Mako, lemon, Caribbean reef and nurse shark.
Which one was the worst?
The nurse shark.
Really?
Where did they bite you at?
My inner thigh.
That artery is talking about by a quarter of an inch and took a piece of meat this big
out of my leg.
Oh my God.
The doctor had to cut the skin loose and stretch it over.
He told me he's going to have to get a skin graft on that and it was a three foot nurse
shark.
What?
I jumped off the boat on him.
He bit it, latched it to my leg and I pulled him off.
What a stupid move.
Oh, you pulled it off so right.
You pulled the meat off.
And he ripped the whole thing off.
A nurse shark, they say a six foot nurse shark has as much jaw pressure as a thousand pound
great white.
God damn.
In the jaw.
I've seen a guy catch one of those right off the shore here on Indian Rocks Beach.
They're okay, but they bite you sometimes.
People have been bitten and they gone to hospital with sharks still latched onto them.
With the shark.
On them, yeah.
They go to the hospital with the shark.
Yeah.
Another guy rode one and I think bit him in the hand on the arm and held him under water
until he drowned.
The shark held him under.
The nurse shark.
Yeah.
It's a powerful, difficult nurse shark to hold on to because he twists and turns every
which way.
Right.
Everybody thinks it's harmless.
He doesn't have any teeth.
I don't know where his ideas come from.
There's probably a zillion people been bit by nurse sharks.
But they stay near the bottom, right?
They don't swim up.
No, they'll come up.
They will.
If you're spearfishing, I've had them come up on 40 feet of water and attack me on the
surface and trying to take the fish I got.
And you're also like near sighted and like dumb, they'll come up and bite you.
I've held my hand in front of them and they lash onto my wetsuit, ripped it right there.
The nurse shark has short teeth.
So if your wetsuit is loose, he'll pull away from it and you might escape getting injured.
Okay.
When he bit me in the leg, I didn't have a wetsuit on.
Oh my God.
Damn.
And if the wetsuit is tight, he'll cut through it and get you anyways.
And it's again, where he bit you, the infection.
It was a group of divers, I think they were catching lobsters, one of them pulled the
nurse shark by the tail.
The nurse shark takes off and bites another diver 10 feet away.
It wasn't even the guy that pulled them by the tail.
It was just pissed off.
Yeah.
God damn.
So you, yeah, you got a.
And how did you get bit by a meiko?
It's a tiny little cut on my hand, hand feeding it.
A baby?
No.
It's a big meiko.
A big meiko.
Huge one.
And, uh, call from Mexico, I was feeding this close out of a wahoo head on my hand.
And he was, I mean, my hand was literally in his mouth and I was holding on to it and
he's just pulling around and dragging me.
And finally the teeth are all hanging out one of them.
You know, I was so close.
Slice you.
Yeah.
I cut my finger.
So that was like, I can claim a meiko bite, but it was like, I mean, it took like a little
knife.
Right.
Yeah.
That counts as a meiko bite.
Yeah.
It's a meiko bite.
I mean, you're feeding him by hand.
Oh my gosh.
I had a Caribbean reshark bite me on the leg from behind and it felt like I got hit with
a machete on my leg.
It was a surprise that day I had a knife tied to my calf, which I never do that.
I usually wear them on my waist.
So happened to be, I'm wearing one there that day and a Caribbean reshark bites you.
He bites the knife side of the, of the calf, the knife is on in my shin bone.
So he crunches down.
So the bone in the knife protected him from ripping my leg to pieces.
Wow.
I got cut.
I was shooting out on everything, but nothing like it.
That knife wouldn't have been there.
Yeah.
He would have taken your calf.
Took my calf off.
Yeah.
It's about, you know, five and a half, maybe six foot Caribbean reshark as long as like
a bull shark.
Right.
So I did a tour.
I did a thing.
We were shooting a, like a TV pilot in Nassau and we did one of the shark dives where they
basically take, they take you out and then there's a couple of guys on the boat and they
literally just chum up a ton of sharks behind the boat and then Caribbean resharks.
Those are the same sharks.
Yeah.
And, and we were in like a tornado of sharks that were coming up, they were bumping my
camera lens and that's extremely dangerous, extremely unsafe.
People haven't bitten out there doing that, especially if you're down current of when
you get into water in a shark dive, where was down current of the blood?
In other words, if your fish is here and the current is going this way, you want to be
here.
If you're down current of the blood, if anybody gets bits, going to be the guy who's down
there down the slick.
Okay.
So that's why people get bit all the time.
I've heard of many people get bit out there by the Caribbean resharks and doing those
shark dives and everything.
Yeah.
Some people never made it home.
Some people have been killed.
They're just out there, not in a cage or nothing.
No, we're surrounded by a tornado of sharks.
Like they're big sharks.
There was like some six footers.
I would never do that.
They do it all the time.
They do it all the time.
That's crazy.
You know, people want adventure, but there's everything shows up there too.
There's bulls.
I'm not doing that.
Hammerheads show up, tigers show up there and everything shows up over there.
One day.
Yeah, they could.
I could imagine.
Like the one thing I was afraid of was that, okay, one bites you, you can get lucky.
But if one bites you and there's 30 others right there, wouldn't they all just swarm
you and just eat you alive?
Well, there's blood everywhere from the food you already got in there.
They're already frenzied out.
Okay.
He may bite you a bull shark, tens of bite again and again and again, like that.
Multiple attacks.
He does it.
The Caribbean bit me one huge bite.
It only takes one good bite and your Caribbean bites you, it'll take 10 pounds of meat off
your body.
You know, that's like your guts could be hanging out there, anything, it can bite your hand
off your leg.
All those sharks are extremely dangerous.
I got nothing against shark dives, but I always tell people, yeah, there's nothing safe out
there.
No.
You may not come back.
It's dangerous.
People say, oh, you're exaggerating.
There's no misunderstood anything.
Those things are dangerous fish.
When you're hungry, they'll eat people.
Unlike everybody.
Alligators eat people.
People, they don't.
All these animals, they do that.
They're dangerous animals.
So they will finish you off.
Like they'll not only take a bite, but they will actually consume you.
Well, look at SS Indianapolis.
They ate, what was it, 600 people or something like that?
What was that?
What was that one?
That ship sunk in World War II.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I did hear about that.
I think a bunch of tiger sharks were out there eating everybody in the middle of the Pacific.
Yeah, they'll eat you.
Yeah.
Those and also the oceanic blue?
Oceanic blue and oceanic white tip.
Okay, the blue tips.
The blue is cold, cool water, and then the oceanic white tip is a little warmer.
But they'll go either way.
They crisscross territory.
The water's warm.
The blues go deeper.
Like makals.
Yeah, they like cool water, but they'll come up and feed if action's coming up there.
And they'll go down to their depths.
Okay.
That's what they'll do.
So those are the ones that basically a sink, a ship sinks, people go overboard.
Those are the ones that are circling you ready to eat.
I like open ocean sharks because they come in hungry, more aggressive.
If you're going to film or interact with them, that's a good candidate.
They're fast.
Yeah, they're very, they're more aggressive.
Like coastal sharks have food around them more often than the ocean sharks.
Okay.
The ocean sharks are more hungrier, and sooner or later they're going to want to make a meal
of whatever is there.
Wow.
So how do you deal with those sharks?
If they're hungry or more aggressive, like what do you do to interact with them and not
get eaten?
Well, when I go out there, my idea is to get the sharks to try to eat me and get them as
aggressive as possible.
When I was doing the shows and all that stuff is to turn that into the most horrifying feeding
frenzy you've ever imagined.
That was the whole idea.
And are you not scared when you're doing that?
Well, I'm not scared until one bit me in half, then I probably would be scared at the moment.
I actually am.
I'm enjoying every second of it.
You love it, right?
Yeah, I'm enjoying it.
Yeah.
And then when I feel like I've had enough, it's enough.
I don't want to push.
You know when they're not pushing too far.
Yeah, I got 30-hand feed.
So I'm like, okay, I'm done.
Yeah.
I'm done for the day.
We got enough action.
Let's just get out of here.
Yeah, it's fun, but you got to be alert because any minute something can go wrong.
But yeah, it's not, yeah, if you want to stay safe, don't do what I'm doing.
But if you want to see the sharks and you want action, you got to, you know, stir it up out
there.
Right.
Make it happen.
Yeah.
That's the whole idea.
Where you're not going to get, you know, shark attacks and you're not going to see that
side of it.
Yeah.
And if you're spearfishing, when all that's going down certain areas, you got every fish
in the oceans around you at the same time.
So if you're there spearfishing, well, there's your shark feeding, man, it's just, everything's
showing up.
It's the best time to hit a fish.
It's just insane.
It was going on out there.
I've been scraping fish for hour after hour after hour calling in, everything is within
miles around to come there.
Really?
And sharks think, when you're ripping a fish apart, sharks think you're a shark eating
and nothing attracts a shark more than somebody else eating.
And I take the knife like that and he thinks I'm devouring that.
And so he wants to get a piece of that action before it runs out and they go into a competitive
mode.
Okay.
And that's what makes it, makes it happen.
That's insane.
Another thing you were telling me earlier was that you would much prefer to have a shark
encounter while you're spearfishing versus if somebody were surfing.
If you're a diver, you can defend yourself from a shark a lot better than a surfer or
a swimmer, a surfer or a swimmer or sitting ducks.
That's why I don't want to go swimming a new swimmer now, because I feel like I've been,
you know, all my defenses are gone.
Right.
Even if you don't have a spear gun though when you're diving, you think you had a better
chance.
Yeah.
If you're diving, yeah, because you can always hit the shark with your hands.
You can charge him.
If you go out at a shark, swim towards him.
You'll frighten him.
Really?
Yeah.
Because he thinks you're going to hurt him.
So if you swim away from him, he's going to attack you.
He thinks you're prey trying to get away.
So the worst thing you can do from a shark is run like crazy away from him.
Then you're going to instigate an attack.
Can you pull up that video, type in Mick Fanning.
This is what I was telling you about.
The guy Mick Fanning was in the surf, surf contest in Jeffrey's Bay, South Africa.
And he was sitting out there waiting for a wave by himself.
And all of a sudden, you just see him get pulled under and yeah, watch this.
He's a sitting duck.
And you can see the fin come up.
I think it was one of the pectoral fins come up, watch him.
It grabs his leash, like the leash that connects his foot.
There he is right there.
Yeah, see, he's totally helpless right there.
If he was a mask and fins and a stick in his hand, he would have been able to fight that
shark.
Now, watch he starts hauling ass swimming as fast as he can.
Yeah.
But normally if it was like a Caribbean reshark or bull shark or something like that, that
would get him attacked.
The great white may not, but one of those bull shark or a Caribbean would have come
back at him and killed him.
Really?
Oh yeah.
What kind of shark was that?
That was a great white.
That was a great white.
Yeah.
The bull has to say three times the jaw pressure in his bite of a great white.
Really?
Yeah.
It's a very bad bite.
What would you have done in that situation if you were him?
I wouldn't have.
I'm not a surfer.
You would have never been in this situation.
You wouldn't have swam away.
You wouldn't be in this situation.
You don't have much visibility there.
Yeah, I wouldn't have been surfing.
Right.
Now, I was going to tell you something before I forget.
If I'm luring in sharks for feeding and scraping meat and drawing, creating a shark
feeding frenzy, I'm probably safer doing that than if I am just randomly spearfishing.
Okay, you spear group in a hole where your head's under the rock and your feet are hanging
out trying to get the group out of the hole.
You're 100% vulnerable.
If there's a bull shark in the area, he's going to attack.
That's when he's going to get you.
So if I'm shark diving, I want the sharks to be there when I'm spearfishing.
Right, you're expecting them to come in.
You're aware of them.
Yeah, no, you're aware of them and you can defend yourself because that's all you're
looking out for them.
They're expecting you.
When you're spearfishing, I don't want to see sharks.
Yeah, right.
I'm not aware because when you're focusing to get a fish, at that moment there's sharks
come out.
They like to bite when you're not looking at them.
Like all predators.
These animals, they're looking for a meal.
Now, what makes animals dangerous is how hungry they are.
Sometimes sharks are not hungry.
They're not going to bother you.
The hunger of the animal, what motivates a lion or a tiger or an alligator or a crocodile
or a shark to eat somebody is how hungry is that animal?
How desperate?
You know, when you're really, really hungry, you're ready to eat anything.
Yeah.
I don't like that food.
I'd rather have a steak, but I'll eat that rotten hamburger because I'm really hungry.
So there's no exception.
When a shark is really hungry, he'll make a meal of what's there.
People have seen him trying to eat a log in the ocean.
They're so hungry.
Wow.
So have you been in a situation where you're having a shark charge at you and you charge
back at it?
Yeah, it's all my life.
And so what, they just get scared of you charging back at them?
What do you do?
You just run face to face to?
We do it all the time.
We run them off or they steal your fish.
You run them off or they'll bite you.
Don't run from them because you can leave the area, but you got to watch your back.
Remember, he wants a bite.
You can defend yourself when you see it coming.
Same thing with an alligator.
You can levitate a charging alligator, but the one that bit me, it was an ambush.
I never saw him.
I was too lazy to look behind me, but if I would have seen him coming, I've had alligators
go after me.
And at the last minute, I get low on the water and I grab him by the shin, I tilt the head
up and that disrupts our attack.
It confuses the alligator and usually do that a couple of times, it'll work the attack.
I had one try to take me down 10 times before.
I mean, I could have left the water and then it'll stop.
But as long as I was there, he kept coming around.
He tried to go in under water at me on the surface, different styles of attack.
Really?
You have to be able to block him every single time on the attack by grabbing.
You got to make sure you don't put your hand in his mouth when he's coming at you at the
last minute.
You got to grab that skin down there.
I mean, don't go try this on your own.
I won't.
I'm not going unless you're there.
You do this.
If all of a sudden your boat broke down and you're swimming and you got attacked in the
last resort, it's good to know something like that.
Yeah, definitely.
But don't, I'm not telling you to go look for these opportunities, you know.
It's kind of like, you know, I took karate lessons, I'm going to go to a bar and pick
a fight.
Yeah.
Somebody will beat your butt or you can make a shot in the head.
Right.
Right.
Exactly.
Something like that.
Is there a video we can see of you levitating an alligator?
Sure, that one.
The top one?
Yeah.
That's probably the largest alligator I've ever levitated in my life.
Wow.
Where's this at?
How big is this one?
I'd say it's 13 foot plus.
I had alligator expert look at me in the video and everything.
I'm talking about him.
I was on my way home.
We were filming, you know, just whatever you could find, fish, gators, anything, you
know, trying to do a good, you know, nature show.
Right.
Is this in Florida?
Yes.
Yeah.
There's a lot of hydrilla in this area.
Okay.
The hydrilla, a lot of times the water is clear, but what a hydrilla does is it covers
everything.
It's like a spongy jungle.
Right.
And, you know, look, see the alligators and all kinds of animals can disappear into the
hydrilla.
Right.
And it grows off the bottom?
Yeah.
It comes out the bottom.
And the bottom of the canal.
Wow.
I can't believe how clear it is.
Yeah.
Hydrilla thing clears water too.
Okay.
Oh, shit.
See, he arches his back.
So.
Oh, that means he's, he's pissed?
Well, he's not going the other way.
He's coming in our direction.
Yeah.
So instead of, uh, leaving.
He's interested.
Yeah.
He's headed right to us.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, fuck.
At this time, I was already lost my finger on my left hand.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
He's huge.
Congratulations.
I do another good lift on him too.
Where you, I really show him well though.
Oh my God.
Oh, shit.
See, that's, you saw a slow motion.
Yeah.
What is that thing like a thousand pounds?
I said a thousand pounds.
It's, it's a massive animal.
There's a lot of fish in that area.
So now he doesn't want to be messed with.
Now he's like, fuck that.
I'm going to sleep.
No, no, he's not sleeping.
He's just going to lay down there.
Okay.
I go down and pet him and everything.
I'm going to try to budge him.
Really?
I can't even.
I do a thing where I grab him by the scutes and I lift him off the, off the bottom gently.
Okay.
And he's so heavy.
I can't, I can't budge him.
Yeah.
I can't even grip him.
I got a grip on him.
Yeah.
I lost my fins like that.
I need to get me a new pair of those bodyboard fins.
Yeah.
I know the same boogie board and fins.
That's what they're called.
Uh, you don't get them in dye shops.
You got to go to a surf shop.
Yeah.
I found out the best thing to use out there is not those long free diving fins.
The short ones, the short for maneuvering around alligators and sharks.
You want that.
Yep.
You want the short ones.
I'm not into the going deep now.
I'm into, they're messing with the animals.
So I don't need the long fin.
You have no traction with it.
Right.
I got a goosome get out of there because I can't get in front of him.
He's facing the bank and I don't have any room.
And you couldn't pull him out.
You have to stay on, you have to stay under, under his jaw, under his head.
You don't want to be directly here because that's where he's going to jump up and get you.
Oh, okay.
I like to get below him.
Best place to be with an alligator is underneath.
Under.
Okay.
His eyes are above his head.
See.
See how little the eye looks compared to the skull that tells you how big that alligator
is.
That thing's a moose.
Because what happens is the head will grow the size of the eye.
Really?
Yeah.
Like a little alligator's got a eye that looks like a frog.
Yeah.
It pops out.
It's big.
Yeah.
Tiny little head with two big eyes on it.
It looks like a frog.
And then when it grows, you know.
You barely see the eye.
Yeah.
Because it's still a big eye, but the head, that's how big he is.
That is so much bigger.
Holy shit.
He's dark.
Yeah.
He's already freaking out.
So he's going to dive into the hydrilla forest.
He said, I found the wrong human.
I was just trying to see what was going on over here.
Many plagues over here.
I do want a two lifts on him and then I leave him alone.
I don't want to stress him out.
If you do too much, he's going to come back at you.
Okay.
And, you know, I'm not, I'm just interacting and I really, you know, hunting the alligator.
Yeah.
No need to, that is a price gator.
A gator like that is already bred though.
I saw him and he's, I think he's over here.
He was so big that we saw two different spots.
I found where the tail was and quite a found where the, where the head was.
Really?
So I got, it's a big mound of hydrillas.
I'm going to go in.
I got to go inside the hydrilla now to look for him.
Oh my God.
Now watch it.
When I bring him straight up, I'm going to put him in tonic immobility.
Okay.
So you're just going into the, into the plants and trying to find them.
I'm reaching out for him.
The plants.
Whatever they're called.
Oh my God.
That's my left hand right there.
Look how big that head is.
Holy shit.
Now, right.
And see how he looks more calm?
Yeah.
He's right now the head is straight up.
This is kicks in tonic immobility.
Now he just hit the surface.
Now he explodes.
The minute I took him up and he started to tilt his head back.
He went off like a stick of dynamite.
Let's forget it.
We're done.
We're done.
Yeah.
Look at that thing.
That thing's a dinosaur.
That's what it looks like.
It looks like a dinosaur.
He's running along the bank watching.
Wow.
I bet you were safer underwater than you were on the bank.
Right.
I was just thinking about what if this gator gets up on land right now.
They want you.
They'll get you underwater above.
Alligators hunt underwater.
Okay.
People don't know that they do.
They'll sit in the bottom of the mouth open waiting for fish to come nearby and they
lash on top.
Oh really?
They're catching a soft shell turtle trying to catch it underwater and they've had them
attack me underwater.
I've never seen a video of a gator eating underwater before.
You only really see gators attacking stuff on land.
No.
They do it underwater.
But there's not too many people down there catching it.
Right.
Exactly.
There's not people down there.
You've got to be down there at night catching the feeding time.
But they're eating fish left and right down there.
They've got to come up to swallow it.
They don't swallow underwater because their throat locks down there.
They don't want to let water in through the system.
Or else they can fill up a water and drown.
Oh shit.
So they just grab it while they're down there.
Then they come up to the surface to actually eat it.
You want to see the makles?
Yeah.
Okay.
Go up.
Up.
This is my best shark day ever.
Your best shark day.
I've got good ones.
How far offshore is this?
About 50 miles.
Okay.
San Diego.
San Diego?
Yeah.
It's in California.
That's where you find a lot of makles and blues.
Wow.
I mean, it's a magnificent.
That thing is huge.
Look at the shape of his body and his tail.
It's almost like he's not real.
Yeah.
It looks like such a design.
Such a cool looking fish.
Amazing.
And that's just a little one there, right?
Yeah.
I'm going to hand catch that one and then I'm going to catch a big one.
In that segment.
I ride one.
I hand feed blues.
It was six makles and three blues showed up that day.
At first they were chasing each other off.
The big ones were running off the small ones.
And then later on they got comfortable with each other
and then they started hanging out.
Oh, this is the bigger one, right?
Oh my God.
No, it's a little one.
That's a little one.
That's the little one still.
Look at its eyes.
How big they are.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And oceanic vision.
So the bigger makles will lead the blues and the baby makles also.
Really?
Cannibalize your own kind.
Yeah.
That's one of the few animals that actually eat each other, right?
There's not many predators.
Do gators eat other gators?
Yeah.
That seemed when they showed over again.
That's when I was ready to catch them.
I was going to catch up Mako.
What about the gators?
I was going to say like sharks are one of the few predators
that cannibalize each other.
Is that right?
Or do a lot of them?
Gators do it.
Gators do it too.
Lions do it.
Bears do it.
Oh, shit.
That thing's like a little torpedo.
Yeah.
Well, it can jump 20 feet in the air.
It's world's fastest shark.
And it's warm-blooded too.
It's got the ability to warm its blood up.
It's warm.
Really?
Like the other sharks.
That's the only shark that's like that?
No.
I think the other members of his family might be like that too.
The great white may have that ability also.
There's five mackerel shark members.
Mackerel shark members?
Yeah, which is...
Pelagic, like...
Well, in the family, it's great white, short fin Mako,
long fin Mako, and poor Beagle.
Oh my God.
So you just caught that by hand.
And salmon sharks, the other member.
Yeah, I just caught it, yeah.
Look at this thing.
That's sand fishing.
You noodled a Mako.
Well, you can't nibble him through his mouth.
He'll cut your hand off.
You've got to grab his body.
Now, he's not as slippery as...
Yeah, if you've got gloves on, his skin feels...
It's like almost like sandpaper, so you can get a grip on it.
Which is nice.
But yeah, you've got to grab him...
That's nice.
Yeah, you've got to grab him like that,
because that guy right there will knock your fingers right off.
You know, if you...
Yeah, you don't want him to bite you.
He can kill you.
See, I released him.
He stayed with us the rest of the day,
even after I caught him.
Yeah, he didn't care.
There's a blue.
That's a blue.
That's a scary fucking shark right there.
Well, they're all scary, but...
Dil, if you offer him your hand, he'll bite it off you.
He'll bite it, he'll take it.
If you let him bite you, he will bite you.
You can't let him bite you.
Are these suits you're wearing?
Are they kind of like bite-proof a little bit and stuff?
No, they're just regular wetsuits.
No, it's the same thing when you're surfing.
Really?
Yeah, it's a wetsuit.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's like butter.
See, I'm riding that one.
Oh my God.
I can't lie.
That would probably be a super cool feeling right there to ride a shark,
but I'm still not trying to.
You can.
I mean, you go there.
I'll tell you, go ahead and catch a ride.
God, yeah, that would be cool.
Yeah, you were saying they sound.
If you grab onto them, they'll sound.
Yeah, but you still get a ride.
You hold your breath, you let go when it's time to go.
He'll keep going with you.
If you overdo it, he may come back at you.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, if you put on a tank and stayed on him on him the whole time,
he may eventually get mad and say enough of the off,
and he'll turn around and...
Now, when you catch one...
Yeah, that could have been a disaster there.
Getting tangled in that rope and stuff.
It could have been a disaster there.
I almost got bit by blue that day.
Robin almost got bit by blue that day, too.
The producer.
Is this Amiko?
Yeah.
God, that's freaking terrifying.
See, he didn't take the bait.
I think this is the one.
I'm going to catch him now.
I think this is the one.
Yeah, I'm going to hand-catch this one.
How big is this one?
He's pretty big.
Watch.
See, I got him already.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Jesus.
That's crazy.
What the hell?
He's big blue.
Yeah.
I told the guys, if I hand-catch Amiko,
he's going to drag me all over the ocean.
Because I'm tilted one side,
he's going to end up right by the boat again.
Right.
So he's going to take a huge circle,
quit it when chasing me.
But I said, if you wait by the boat,
you're going to catch him.
You're going to catch him coming right to you.
Robin was there waiting for me.
I don't know what he got on the footage.
See, there's Robin with the camera waiting.
He's back at the boat.
You still got this thing.
I'm going to let him go now.
Now, again, if I wanted to keep him,
I would have told the guys to get a rope
and just put a rope on his tail on his boat.
But we're not getting meat.
We're getting video.
Right, right.
Some people want you to release the shark.
Some people don't.
At this time, we're entertaining the public.
I'm feeling my personal challenge.
But I'm feeling, look at the size of this one here.
Holy shit.
This one here, I'm going to try to put him
and roll him on his back.
And I'm going to ride him backwards.
I lift his head out of water.
I'm going to flip him.
He didn't go into tonic mobility, but I did flip him.
A lot of the stuff the producer wrote for me to say.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
When I'm out there talking, it's me talking.
And then he'll listen to some stuff.
And then he feeds himself.
He'll write stuff in there, which is OK.
I don't care what you want me to say.
Get the people going.
But right now, I'm going to tell you what's going on.
What do you think might be a right as a catch
for different things?
Right.
Now, is there any shark that you cannot eat?
Cannot eat?
It's not good to eat.
The Greenland shark, you have to boil it, they say.
In order to eat it, because it's poisonous.
When you boil the heck out of it, you can eat it.
People out there eat it.
OK.
It's a weird Greenland shark.
Greenland shark, yes.
Cold, cold, cold water shark.
There's a blue at it.
But overall, I mean, you can eat a hammerhead.
It tastes like lousy.
You can eat a bull shark.
I've eaten it.
It tastes terrible.
He almost got me there.
The blue did.
No, here's where it happens, I think.
No, no, this is the other one.
See, I'm going to flip them now.
OK.
It's a big makeover.
See?
And this is where you, it's like paralyzed when you flip them.
No, no, no, you didn't go paralyzed.
See, he's still swimming, but I got him upside down.
That's crazy.
Oh, my God.
You know, it's like having, you know, let's just...
You're dancing.
Yeah, I'm playing with sharks.
Wow.
It's a lot of fun.
Oh, my gosh.
Man, you're a psycho.
Can you do that stuff with dolphins?
They seem like a lot nicer and more friendly.
No, you don't, you don't, dolphins in captivity are mean, smart and mean.
It's just like killer whales.
They end up killing somebody.
You swam with killer whales, right?
Yes.
Probably the most dangerous thing out there.
Killer whales kill...
The most dangerous animal in the ocean.
Yeah, yeah, they kill great white sharks, probably on the planet.
They kill, they kill blue whales.
They gang up on them and kill them.
They kill other whales.
And they lose out there.
And they've killed...
Oh, we don't know if they killed anybody.
Yeah, because people got killed when around to tell you what happened.
Right, right.
They killed three trainers over at...
A sea world.
A sea world, yeah.
So it is a dangerous animal.
You know, none of the other pets out there have done that, though.
Okay, so it was a wild caught killer whale and they killed three trainers eventually.
And they were playing with them too, or at least one of them.
Like one of them was like toying with the guy before he killed him.
Yeah, they'll toy with the food supply out there.
They call them killer whales for a reason.
Right, no shit, right.
It's not a misunderstood animal.
Free Willy got them all looking happy and nice and friendly and stuff.
Yeah, that was fake advertising.
It kills bottomless dolphins.
They torture animals.
They're just, they're horrific animals.
I mean, they're cool.
They live out there.
They're part of nature and all that.
So you thought, why not jump in the water with them?
Well, we're doing amuletles with the jackass wild boys.
And you know, you got to do the adventure.
You got to step it up.
Right.
You're coming up with ideas and sometimes things just got better and better.
And that's the first time you probably did that.
Right.
Yes.
That's the first time in my life ever seen a wild killer whale.
Are you nervous going into that?
Cause you never did it before.
You've never seen it before.
I was anxious to get in.
I felt like you wanted to do it.
Well, I want to do it.
I want to, you know, okay, let's get some action.
I'm to the point when I'm like getting to a point.
Okay.
I'm tired of waiting around.
Let's get into this.
When I'm going to do something.
Okay.
You get that feeling.
You get fired up.
Yeah.
It's just like a guy is going to do something else.
You know, people do the same thing.
He's going to jump something on motorcycle jumps.
That's what I was thinking.
I wouldn't do that.
I would rather some of the junkie.
Yeah.
They got adrenaline junkies or jumping off of airplane without a parachute.
Things like that.
You know, okay.
I don't want to wait around.
Let's get, get, get with it.
So I saw the killer whales.
Let me get in.
Okay.
This is good.
Let's get everybody in there, you know, and start filming.
And so you get out there with them and what, what is that like?
You guys ride out.
You find them finally and you just jump in with them.
Yeah.
You ride around with a boat that is specialized in whale watching in Alaska.
Yeah.
They take tourists to watch whales.
You're not supposed to go up to them.
So I told the guy, okay, they're headed that way.
He dropped me off in your path.
Okay.
So they dropped you off in front of them.
Yeah.
So we don't harass the whales.
And then the whales come to you and then it was okay.
So what the hell happened when you had a school of killer whales coming at you?
One came by, had a really good close look at me.
And that was at the water.
I could only see like six feet max.
Really?
It was green.
That's probably the worst part about it.
Green and dark, dark, dark green.
And this is just you or you're with Steve Owen and Chris then?
Camera guy, Steve.
Steve didn't get in.
Chris.
Chris got in?
Yeah.
I got him in with the Grizzlies and I got him in with the killer whales.
Steve wouldn't do it.
No, Steve wasn't a bear off at the other one.
He likes, he'd rather set himself on fire than mess like with a tiger or lion.
You know what I mean?
He's not dangerous animals.
It's not his thing.
But if he's going to jump off a cliff, blow himself up a dynamite or hurt himself severely.
Shoot a rocket out of his ass.
Yeah.
Or eat an omelet made out of vomit or something like that.
Yeah, he's down with that.
Yeah.
But he'll do the animals.
I've done a lot of animal stuff with him.
I put him on a surfboard and had sharks swarming around him.
And the sharks are attacking the surfboard, biting on him, pulling on him.
So we're going to see if the surfers get attacking mid-ocean.
I mean, a stupid thing to do.
So the way to make it happen, we tied a bunch of fish on a surfboard and put them out there
and let them float out there.
So of course, the water's boiling around him with sharks feeding as like 25 sharks are in the water,
all feeding on a surfboard.
And these duskies come in about eight of them, giants.
One of them grabbed the whole wall of fish on a surfboard.
And Steve was a monster coming.
Steve would jump off the surfboard.
And the shark dragged the surfboard under.
Oh, man.
Oh, my God.
I mean, the whole surfboard sunk.
I'm talking about, you know, probably 800-pound dusky.
Did those guys ever take any bad injuries from any of that stuff?
They do.
The idea for me was something to get injured, but not too, too bad.
Right.
But you kind of want them to get bit ones in a while.
By certain things.
I don't want them missing body parts.
You know, I wouldn't let Johnny Neistel get bit by rattlesnake,
even though he really wanted to.
Yeah.
Things I got.
I don't, you know, the idea is to get some,
like when he got bit by anaconda, okay, he can handle that.
Yeah.
He wanted to get bit by a rattlesnake?
Yeah.
I need to turn diamond back.
What?
I'm seeing you were like, no way.
No, I might have killed him or amputated his arm.
Right.
He needs his arm.
Yeah.
And then, but with the anaconda, I knew he wasn't going to complain about it.
He didn't mind the pain.
Okay.
A 14-foot anaconda just.
And so he got bit by an anaconda?
Yeah.
Johnny Knox built it?
Six times.
Three on the video.
On the video.
Where?
Where'd he get bit?
In the arm.
In the arm?
I think I saw that video.
Yeah, it's on the Jackass 2.
Yeah, Jackass 2.
The ball pin, whatever.
Yeah, yep.
The two anacondas are hiding under the balloons, you know,
and they went in there to play with them.
God damn.
It was a huge anaconda.
Yeah.
Out of all the deadly man-eating predators in this world,
which one is your absolute favorite, would you say?
Or can you pick one?
I don't know.
You know, it all depends.
It's hard to say that.
Like people say, what's the most dangerous thing?
I don't know.
It's all good.
Yeah.
You know, there's a lot of cool, yeah, like the big fish.
Like I told you, I want to go, a diet trip for me right now,
I like to go spear some mullet.
Some mullet, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Shield relaxing like that.
Yeah.
Is there any animal you don't mess with?
Is there one that you're like, not doing it?
Man, if I wouldn't even touch that.
Funnel spider, Brazilian walking spider.
I don't like the spider.
I don't want nothing to do with spiders.
Yeah, screw that.
Right.
It's probably hard to defend yourself from a spider.
Yeah.
No, I don't like it because you're sleeping and they bite you
on your bed like brown recluse.
Yeah.
Okay, there's a brown recluse in the room.
I don't want to go to sleep there because you're sleeping
and I bite you.
I mean, I like things that I can see you or act with.
Maybe if spiders were like 10 feet tall and like out.
Then you'd wrestle one.
They're creepy.
Yeah, they are.
I don't like, most of the people like me don't like spiders.
I'm not the only one.
Yeah.
I don't like spiders.
I'm not animal wranglers and all that.
Yeah.
None of them like spiders.
And you were telling me also about your experience with
out swimming bears in the water.
You said that you had to get away from a bear.
No, not get away.
Go at them.
If I have to get away from them, I can.
If I have fins on, I can out swim a bear.
Without fins, a bear will swim faster than me.
That's insane.
That's unbelievable to think a bear could swim faster than
a human, especially.
Yeah.
They're fast.
Well, I mean, I didn't go to the Olympics and I'd tell you
Weissmuller or whatever is swimming, but with fins.
Yeah.
With fins, I can definitely power away.
No problem.
And how did you end up in the water next to a bear?
How did that happen?
I volunteered.
I got in.
It was looking for the.
I swam with Grizzlies and I swam with black bears.
Wow.
I never did get to swim with a polar bear.
I don't know if I want to go out there and freeze out there either.
I mean, like a friend of mine told me, you go out there, you
catch a pneumonia, you're in the middle of that country out
there.
You're done.
I mean, I had a, when I was in Alaska, I had a good wetsuit.
I was comfortable in it with a good wetsuit.
You can take it.
Right.
But yes, I don't know how far, but it's, yeah, I've done some,
I mean, a lifetime of that stuff.
I've focused a lot of my artwork right now.
Okay.
Yeah.
I need my hands to do artwork.
Right.
Yeah.
You're not trying to lose them anymore.
You have nine fingers left.
Yeah.
I don't want to lose it anymore.
I got a lot of work to do a lot of artwork.
Yeah.
And your tridents that you've been doing, that's very similar to
art.
I mean, they are pieces of art.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Yeah.
I like tridents.
I like spears.
Yeah.
I also make bronze statues of like alligators, sharks.
I made a Goliath group out of bronze.
I've done stuff like that.
Really?
Yeah.
And I do authentic looking pieces in bronze.
I like doing that.
I do a little bit of wood carving also, but I do like making my
knives, my jewelry, my own special line of jewelry.
Yeah.
My weapons.
I make my necklaces.
I wear them all the time.
It's like the one you have on your neck.
Yeah.
This is a fish belt and hand carved.
That thing's so cool.
Super cool.
Yeah.
I wear stuff like this.
Yeah.
This is made of steel.
This is done from a half inch thick plate of steel.
And then I cut it open like this and I just, I cut it with a
grinder like if it was wood, basically.
Right.
With a metal cutting grinder.
Yeah.
Let's bring the trident over here.
It looks like a trident.
Yeah.
So you can fish.
This is what you fish with now.
Yeah.
I fish with this.
This is an aquatic weapon.
So you, I put a fish in here because this is for a fish hunter.
So this is like, you know, pirates have the skulls of people.
I don't want human skulls.
I put a fish skeleton.
Right.
And this is an, uh, nautical, uh, piece of equipment that
represents, you know, underwater hunting.
Is that why, why the, uh,
It's a classic.
I love.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I love classics.
Is there, is there a reason for the three, the three prong design
like that?
Or is that sort of just like for, for novelty kind of just like
Poseidon or Zeus would have something like that.
It's, it's designed for catching fish, but it has a novelty.
It's a classic.
Right.
Now, if you have one point, you throw out a fish, you might miss.
If you got three points, it's more likely you're going to get it.
Okay.
You have a better chance of hitting it.
And then I have a story about that also.
And then what happens, you got three of them gripping on it.
So it holds a fish better.
So it's designed to get a better grip on the fish.
It's a fishing weapon.
Okay.
It's not used, not really for people.
There's used to money each other.
Yeah.
That's insane.
They went in the arena and they were sticking each other with tridents.
This is not cool.
Now I've probably the first one to use them for board hunting because I
get missing a lot of my shots throwing a single point spear at a
board, but the trident is more accurate and it's got a more of a
spread.
So it's basically a shotgun versus a rifle.
So you're throwing close.
And you can't aim it like a rifle.
Right.
So when I have a big trident spread out like this, throwing out
of the board, you have more of a spread going at them.
Right.
So if you're a little off, you're still going to get them.
Okay.
And then when you get them, he can't run as well with them because it
traps his.
Heavies.
It traps an arm against the rib cage.
When you spear a board with a single point, he runs so fast, he
could be on you real quick and put you in the hospital in about two
seconds.
So what I would do, I throw a trident at him and I use another spear
to kill him.
To finish him.
To finish him.
Yeah.
The whole thing's over real quick.
Okay.
He's not going to get away.
When you hit him a trident, you turn around and he's coming at you.
I thought you had to be close to an animal to kill it with a bow and
arrow.
But for this, you have to be like, you got to be like, how close?
10 to 12 feet away.
So that's another reason it's so dangerous.
You don't have that much time.
No.
I hit one charging at me and he hit me here.
And both of my feet were flying in the air.
He would hit me here.
He would have killed me with a bottle of my spear.
He hit me.
And yeah, caught my shoulder.
I tried to catch him.
The last thing I saw, he was running at me full blast.
I better throw now.
So I throw.
He's coming at me about 30 miles an hour.
I imagine I hit him.
It hits him.
And he's the spear stuck in him.
So he's running like a, all of a sudden he's like a unicorn.
With this spear coming at you.
So I try to catch the bud to keep up.
I missed it.
And both of my feet were flying and everybody was throwing spears and
panic.
Really?
Yeah.
Nobody had a gun or anything?
No.
I don't want them with a gun there because in the commotion, I got nothing
against guns.
But in the situation like that, somebody gets excited.
Bulls just start flying everywhere.
Yeah.
You don't know where they're coming from.
Yeah, but it's chaos.
Right.
You know, now we're all shooting this way.
Like that.
You know, a lot of times in a certain situation, yeah, it's good to have a
gun always.
But one time a boar attacked a Quithy and Robin pulled a handgun out of him.
Fire, you know, try to keep the hog off him.
I'm thinking somebody's going to get it.
Yes.
Everybody was packing a handgun out there, you know.
And somebody's going to get hit.
Yeah.
Another guy got attacked by a boar.
He pulled out his 45.
The boar, he shot at the boar.
The boar scraped off the boar's head.
The boar knocked him down, gun and all.
It was a disaster.
And later on, I found out the boar had glanced off the boar's head.
So the boar got up and I told everybody, get him.
They got him with spears.
No way.
Yeah.
We took some people out hunting and yeah, it was chaotic.
I've seen that happen before.
Jeez.
So I'd rather, you know, if you're up in a tree stand waiting for the boar with a gun,
fine.
But when you're in there and that kind of commotion, people like that, you have a handgun.
Yeah.
Maybe by yourself.
Yeah.
When there's somebody running on the other side, it, you know, the nerves, everybody's,
you know, it's a war zone.
Everybody's nerves are, the boars are dangerous as all get out.
Yeah.
People want that danger.
So everybody's nerves are shot, you know.
Oh my gosh.
I can't, I couldn't believe that.
Yeah, I've never been, and these things are like.
That thing's heavy.
This thing's like 12 pounds.
No, the big one.
The big one is 12 pounds.
This one's like five, six.
I'm not sure.
I haven't weighed these.
It's still heavy.
It's heavy.
Well, yeah, it's, you want a good weight and strength.
I like everything.
Everything I make is exaggerated.
My knives are three eighths of an inch thick.
Oh yeah.
I was looking at some of your knives.
They were, I was like, those are cool knives, but I'm like, that's a big ass knife.
I can't really carry that.
Everything I make is industrial strength, exaggerated.
Yeah.
My trident's are 10 times stronger than it need to be.
Yeah.
Everything I make is.
And that thing's sharp as hell too.
I may not look at it like on camera, but I just touched that thing.
It's a razor sharp razor sharp.
My hunting spears.
Yeah.
They're thick heavy duty metal too.
They're indestructible.
Wow.
Indestructible.
Indestructible.
How long does it take you to make one of those?
About three days if I'm at it.
Three straight days.
Yeah.
Wow.
Especially the bigger ones.
I got to grind that much more steel.
You know, like this has to be, you know, I got to sand the wood down.
Right.
I got to do the carving, coating is not necessary.
I got to have a functional trident quicker.
Right.
You can use it right away, but if you want to make some cool stuff.
I like to decorate the stuff.
Sure.
Yeah.
Is this something you've been doing your whole life too?
Or is this something new you just got into?
I've always been an artist.
Yeah.
But I haven't actually made it this much.
I started getting the weapons in the last, I don't know, 15 years or so.
I started making knives probably before that.
Yeah.
And little by little I started making.
By the time I was doing the outdoor channel, I had a spear in my hand and every show.
Right.
So I was already headed that way.
Now you're known as the real life Tarzan.
Aquaman maybe.
Yeah.
Aquaman.
You are the real life Aquaman.
I'm not an actor.
You're not an actor.
You're not an actor.
You're the right.
I can play out there.
In the movie you can do things that you couldn't do in the ocean.
You can elaborate more.
So, you know, you get to do the Aquaman, you get a real actor.
Now, for, lately you said you've been, you've been spearing fish in the Okeechobee, Lake Okeechobee.
Or in the rivers.
Tilapia.
Okay.
I love the fact that tilapias are everywhere.
It's just great.
I like invasive species because you can hunt them.
Yeah.
Right.
Nobody gets upset about it.
Tilapias are great.
The alligators are eating them.
They're getting healthy on them.
Okay.
They're good for people to eat.
It's one of the best things that ever happened in Florida.
Really?
Oh yeah.
My opinion.
I don't agree with me, but that's just my opinion.
Right.
Of course.
You like it.
I like the boar hogs out there.
Some people, oh, they're terrible.
The end of the world is coming.
You know, you see those shows.
The boars are killing you.
You know, the boars, yeah, we got more Florida Panther, which is great.
They're endangered.
They're not endangered anymore, thanks to the boars.
That's their food supply.
And a lot of the, and people, hunters.
A lot of kids in Central Florida are out hunting boar instead of doing drugs.
Yeah.
That keeps them busy.
Don't take the boars away from them or you're going to get a drug epidemic or something.
You can't go anywhere throughout all the country.
Every guy, they know they hunt hogs.
That's what they do.
It's the most popular thing.
That's what they do.
Like in Oklahoma, everybody goes noodling.
In Florida, when hog hunting, I got the best dogs around.
That's what everybody, everybody's like that.
Wow.
It's, yeah, it keeps everybody busy at night.
Instead of being in a bar, drinking whatever, they're out chasing hogs, which is great.
And for my first time hunting hogs, do you recommend I do it with a trident?
It depends what kind of hunt you want to do.
I mean, if you want to go, you want to hunt with a gun, with a bow and arrow, a crossbow,
or you want to go with a spear, you can throw a trident from a tree stand.
If you don't want to put yourself in severe danger, let the guide go find them later.
Right.
Oh, you got to go find them.
He'll run off.
Have the guide go.
Have the guide go.
Yeah.
The guide follow him up.
Yeah.
He knows, he's more experienced.
Yeah, you can throw a trident, but most of people shoot a crossbow, bow and arrow.
Okay.
If you have a rifle, if you have dogs, you can use a spear.
When the dogs grab, you can spear.
Okay.
That's another way you can do it.
Okay.
That's a single point.
If you want to throw, I tell you, get in a tree, you miss, nothing happens.
Okay.
Boar runs off.
I think I want to try, I want to take my new trident.
You can, that'll work.
Yeah.
I'm ready.
You can get a, get real low tree stand.
You don't have to be high.
Okay.
And put food right on there.
And don't move until he's not looking directly on you and slam them.
Wow.
And like I said,
Just, just one hand, just.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's where you do it.
Wow.
Did we talk about red tide on this?
Or was that before we started recording?
Red tide.
No, we didn't talk about it.
So in Okeechobee, there's been a lot, so much hype this year about the red tide.
It's algae.
It happens every year.
It's been going on since the 40s.
Yeah.
Well, the red tide that was recorded in 1840 in the ocean.
Right.
But when you have a hot summer, you get algae blooms.
When it gets cold, algae dies.
Right.
So some winters are colder, some are warmer.
I mean, the world's been warming since the last ice age.
We had first a thousand years ago.
It was very hot on the planet.
We had a global warming.
And then we had a mini ice age, 17, 1800s.
And that's why everybody was out hunting beaver furs.
Animal furs are worth more than gold.
Seven times more than gold was.
Nobody's looking for gold.
Everybody's looking for fur.
Back then.
That's why, yeah, New Orleans.
Yeah.
They were buying furs from the Indians.
They were trapping furs and shipping furs all the way down the Mississippi.
And then to Europe, where the market was referred, it was very cold.
I think I've heard before what happens with a very warm planet.
You get more vegetation.
Yeah.
You get more crops.
Right.
When you get a cold, cold ice age, the world is less productive.
I like cold weather myself, but there's more food and warmer and warmer weather.
When you have a cooling planet, the planet starts to get a mini ice age.
And then places or crops are growing.
They're not going to be growing anymore.
But yeah, when it warms, let's say if you can grow corn here, then you can go for the
north and grow corn there because the winding of the belt.
Right.
I think the world's always changed temperatures back and forth.
Yeah.
I could get in huge arguments, I guess.
A lot of people.
A lot of people.
A lot of people.
I don't, you know, but it's, look, they can sign this.
They can say what they want.
Yeah.
The all I know is this is from there.
They're not my database, their own database.
A thousand years ago, the world was warmer than it is right now.
Right.
And they got cold and it's been warming back and forth a little bit since then.
Right.
So what happens is, yeah, you got more grasslands and more rainforests are spreading.
The plants drink the carbon dioxide.
Right.
And it produces oxygen.
So it goes back.
There's more like Europe was cut down on the trees.
Now Europe is completely covered in forest again.
Hmm.
Things like that happen.
Yeah.
While we got more bears in the United States than we've ever had.
We got more mountain lions than we've ever had.
We got more coyotes than we've ever had.
We got more deer than we've ever had.
We got less bison because we have cattle replaced and we got fencing everywhere.
But overall, we manage our wildlife.
Other parts of the world, some of these animals are getting wiped out, not here.
Like in other parts of the world, long landing is decimated, the shark population.
But in the U.S. waters, we've got a high shark population.
Yeah.
Now the blue shark, which travels across the Pacific.
Then if you go to California, you see, used to see a lot of blues and less makos.
Now you see a lot of makos and less blue.
Right.
I think on the other side of the Pacific, they may have decimated the blue shark population
because they travel across.
So that could have been the problem.
But in the U.S., we basically, I mean, in Canada and all that, we got tremendous game population.
Yeah.
Very well on land, especially very well-managed.
Large amount of bass, every puddle has them.
You know, it's just, it's a popular fish.
Whatever is important economically, you see a lot of deer.
Deer everywhere because they're economically important.
Alligators everywhere are economically important.
Yeah, everything is, that is worse, something is protected.
You were telling me before, I think it was in the keys you were saying, when there was a big, a big red tide bloom,
that you guys got a ton of cobia or something?
Yeah, the cobia and the sharks, everything was swarming inshore.
Just swarms of fish ahead of the red tide.
It doesn't come in out of the Gulf and the Atlantic.
The red tide usually hit in the Gulf.
It might be nature's way.
The Gulf is so productive.
Right.
The waters in the Gulf of Mexico are so rich.
Right.
Well, the red tide isn't as a biological, you know, like a cleanser or something.
Yeah, no, it may be that red tide kills a lot of the fish population because it's such a high density of fish in the Gulf.
Right.
The Gulf is rich in the Atlantic because all these rivers empty into the Gulf.
Yeah.
The estuaries are the richest place on Earth.
All the nutrients are washed in there, and that in turn allows for tremendous marine life to develop.
Right.
And that's why, like in Louisiana, for example, not the Mississippi, all that area, there's so much fish over there that you don't know what to do with.
Right.
Because that area is very rich.
Now, if you're in a coral isle in the middle of the ocean, it cannot sustain a heavy-duty fishing pressure because it's limited because it doesn't have all the runoffs in the rivers to feed the source.
So you can fish the Gulf of Mexico commercially until you die, and it's still full of fish.
You do it on some little island somewhere, you wipe it out in no time.
Right.
How do you feel about, I forget where, is it the Maldives?
Or is it, I can't remember where it is, but they're doing like a lot of big shark culling, like culling a lot of sharks.
You know what I mean, where they kill off, where there's so many, like they think there's like overpopulation of sharks, where there are people getting bit a lot, where they're just culling them, like killing them, like in the masses.
I don't know about it, but I know that's happened before.
And when you have too much of something and human lives are being killed, then, you know, you do something about it.
Right.
You don't have to exterminate anything to the last one, but you can reduce populations.
I think in Hawaii, they would have a bunch of shark attacks.
They will go out and kill 50, 40 sharks.
Right, right.
And then there would be no shark attacks for the next 10 years.
And when the population would come back, it would happen all over again.
It was in cycles.
So they kill some, enough to make it less likely to get attacked, but enough to reproduce their numbers back again.
Right.
That's how things are.
Predators will also wipe out their food supply.
Who?
Predators will wipe out their food supply.
And eventually when there's no food, they die out.
Right.
The starvation.
Then when they're not around, their food supply multiplies.
Right.
And then the few of them that survived, they will multiply because they got a huge food supply.
I think it was in Russia.
They cut down the trees and the grass grew and the stag population exploded.
A deer stag.
Yeah.
So then what happened?
Then the wolf population went up to 200,000 overnight because there was that much food out there.
Right.
So they'll reproduce.
So animals reproduce according to how much food.
Like you could protect the panthers all you want.
If there's no hogs out there to eat, you're not going to get any.
Right.
But when the hog population explodes, they'll explode afterwards.
And if you don't manage them, everything will be up in cycles.
Right.
It's all about the balance.
What we do, we keep it in balance.
If you let nature take its course, it's an up and down cycle.
It takes out in so many years for it to bounce back, back and forth.
The polar bear population is at 25,000.
When I was a kid, it was 8,000.
So they're killing about a million and a half redneck seals a year.
The Arctic cannot sustain that kind of predation by polar bears.
So sooner or later, polar bears are going to kill each other.
You're going to open season on them, or they're going to wipe each other out.
There's too many polar bears?
Yeah.
They don't have enough food to supply them all.
So if people all look, they're attacking walruses.
They go, it's a global warming.
How about there's not enough seals around for them to eat because they've killed them all?
Right.
So that's my take on it.
Yeah.
Nobody else is saying that.
Nobody is, nobody, Kusto did a study.
When I was a kid, it was 8,000 polar bears.
Now it's 25,000.
It's going to drop probably dramatically in the future if they don't call the population out.
I'm not going to humble, I have no self-interest in it.
Right.
I'm using my common sense over the years watching what happens with polar bears.
I'm not in the polar bear hunting business.
Right.
I don't know if I want to go out there cold.
Right.
I'm 65 years old now.
I don't know if I want to jump in there.
Yeah.
Ice out there right now to the truth.
But that's what's going to happen.
That's what I calculate.
And people say whatever.
But you have to manage everything.
We have, I mean, we have good biologists here.
We got, there's good people who study this and know how to keep track of everything.
Ideas that have enough out there for recreational use and everything else.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a lot of people that just get upset.
Like a lot of people will see something, they'll read an article about like a call on sharks
and people will like throw their hands up and be like.
Yeah.
They get mad.
I don't know what the situation there is about the calling sharks.
I know what happened in an island in Indonesia.
The tiger sharks are wiping out everybody.
Yeah.
I think that's where it was in Indonesia.
It happened in the 60s.
They wiped them out.
Reunion.
Reunion Island?
Does that sound right?
Well, everybody's missing arms and legs as tiger sharks.
And next thing you know, the beach was covered in tiger sharks.
I saw the video.
Yeah.
The villagers, it was a Hindus, I think, went out and caught all these sharks.
They would take the bodies also and throw them in the ocean.
Aim your mic a little bit.
They would throw, they were burning all the bodies and throwing them in the ocean.
And the sharks were eating the dead ones and the live ones.
It was tiger sharks.
They'll feed on dead meat.
So there was a lot of tiger sharks in the area and people kept throwing bodies into the sea over there.
Yeah.
So the tiger sharks started eating.
They all just came there.
Well, yeah, there was tons of tiger sharks eating people and they called the shark population.
To me, wildlife is great, but human life is more important.
Right.
You know, I'm not going to sacrifice humans for one species out there.
I mean, you know, I think people, I love wild animals, wild animals and everything, but people are more important.
More important.
Yeah.
They're, you know, God's image.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
I was wondering, like, do you ever, is there any times like you feel bad for killing any animals or certain animals?
Or is there certain animals you wouldn't kill or hunt?
Like sometimes you see people that go out and like hunt elephants and giraffes and stuff, you know what I mean?
I'm not going to judge anybody on what they hunt.
I know the, I'm not going to kill an elephant.
It's too big.
What am I going to do with it?
Right.
The hunter pays 150, $100,000 to shoot the elephant.
That money goes to protect, goes to the rangers to keep the poachers out and to protect the wildlife.
So they lose one elephant and they save a few thousand.
Okay.
So yeah.
Right.
So that's a different way of looking at it because most people will just see the picture and cause a big problem.
Well, because people are emotional.
I was like, when I was growing up, I said, oh my God, they're destroying the plant.
They're destroying the forest.
I was always freaking out about it.
The more I learned about it, the more sort of saying, you know, well, all the guys that farm over there is ruining the forest.
No, the deer are coming out of the forest to eat the farm, to eat the crops.
So it's helping the deer population.
So I found out instead of the far, far wilderness, all the animals are living near the farm because people produce food for the wildlife.
Right.
They like to rate our food stops, food supply.
So it's not always what you think it is.
Right.
That's what I found out.
I mean, it took me a long time to learn all this stuff.
Yeah.
That's a good insight.
I got you got to listen to logic, have an open mind and open ears and hear everybody listen to everybody and look at all the paperwork.
Look at all the research.
Look at all the data.
Right.
And look at everything.
That's what you need to do and check to see what's going out there.
Yeah.
And I got nothing against the elephant hunters.
I got something against like, say, massive slaughter of elephants for ivory because there's no control with it.
There's no control that nobody is saying, well, we're going to kill 15 elephant.
No, they're going to kill everything they see.
Everything they find.
Yeah.
And that's not, you know, if you kill one, something's got to reproduce to replace that one.
Right.
You have to replace what you remove.
And you got to give that time.
So you got to have the time.
But if you're getting a lot of money from these big game hunters putting into the system.
Right.
Is there spending probably a ton of money?
The money, listen, no game board is going to work for free out there.
Right.
You got to pay them well.
He's risking his life to protect all the animals in that forest.
So, right.
Yeah.
That's what the whole idea, the hunting sustains.
Right.
And they're very selective.
They're not going to kill that baby elephant.
They're going to kill that old bull over there.
And they're going to kill that old lion before it dies.
The lion dies.
The buzzers will eat it.
That's $50,000.
The buzzers ate.
If they shoot them a year before another lion kills them, which they will, they kill each other.
If they shoot them, then the management area makes $50,000 for their economy.
It goes into their economy.
It sustains the economy.
It sustains their economy.
So these places like Zimbabwe and places like that, that's the only economy they have.
Yeah.
So they run out of wild animals because they don't manage them right.
They're out of business.
Right.
So they're going to make sure.
So they're not looking to do that, to wipe them all out.
Yeah.
If you're in the industry of hunting, you're not going to wipe out.
Right.
What you're hunting.
What you're hunting.
You've got to manage it.
You've got to be responsible.
You've ever seen a rancher go out there and machine gun down all those cows?
Right.
What?
A rancher shoot down all those cows in one day?
Right.
Others.
Oh, he harvest a certain amount every year.
Right.
That's what I'm trying to say.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do you ever have people come after you who are like animal rights activists who don't
understand it and be like, many, many mistreats these sharks or these animals.
He's not very much.
I've had a few people.
Well, just people who are like very.
And everybody's got an opinion about something.
Oh, you wrote a shark.
I might have bothered a shark when I was catching the glad groupers.
Some people bothered about that.
It was hurting the fish.
You know, there's always, I never really, I get along with everybody.
Yeah.
I've even one time I had people contact me when the shark finning was out of control
and the people were killing the sharks.
He's after the movie Jaws and the new Smyrna tax.
Everybody's, I never freaking out.
I said, well, you know, Ed, you got to have some kind of regulation on this and all that.
So I told people you should work with conservation.
It's not just emotional stuff.
I told them a long time, but yeah, I've been contact with people.
I never really had much of a problem like that.
Yeah.
I tend to get along and also I know people emotional.
I explain things.
Right.
And, you know, I've been to a meeting where a spearfishing member fighting shark feeders
back and forth.
That's all guys.
Really?
Don't bring the feds.
The fed.
Yeah.
I saw they ban shark diving in the state waters.
The guys are trying to ban spearfishing and the spearfishing say we're getting attacked
by sharks.
You guys are feeding them.
So it turned to fiasco.
And I said, guys, the ocean's big enough for everybody.
Don't get the feds involved, but you're all going to be out of business real soon.
That's what I told them.
Right.
You know, try to get along.
You know, guys get along.
The oceans are big enough for everybody.
Get along out there.
But they did whatever they wanted.
Right.
I said, I do both.
I spearfishing and I do shark dives.
Right.
So you can see both sides.
Now I'm just doing artwork.
Yeah.
But back then that's what mainly I was doing that.
That's awesome.
Like, what kind of people are using these?
Are you doing a lot of charters with the user?
These are sold to collectors.
They're sold to hunters.
They're sold to, you know, divers.
Just people that want them.
People that go fish with them.
I sell knives.
I sell axes.
Most of the stuff people like just cool stuff to have.
But like this right here is used to for tilapia.
Okay.
And that, yeah, that is used a lot.
Okay.
Where can they get these at?
They contact you directly?
Yeah.
On the website or?
Instagram.
Instagram.
Yeah.
Come back on Instagram.
I'll put a graphic up of Manny's Instagram.
That's all right.
Yeah.
Check out all the stuff I got in there.
I got hook necklaces.
I got knives, axes, spears, and I do custom work too.
Awesome.
That's depending on what you want done.
And I got two brand new, I got two brand new Trident.
I got one for fishing and I got one that we're going to use as the backdrop for our new set
for the podcast.
So for now on, we're going to have a giant Manny Pwig Trident in the background of our
podcast.
Thank you.
It's an honor.
I appreciate it.
I appreciate you coming out.
Bye.
Bye.
