We're gonna start posting each podcast episode
that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes,
plus we're gonna start doing bonus podcast episodes
every week.
So if you wanna join Patreon, it's patreon.com
slash concrete videos.
Next week's episode is already posted there,
so feel free to go check it out.
Hello, world.
My guest today is Lynn Ulbricht.
She's the mother of Ross Ulbricht,
who created the deep web e-commerce platform
called Silk Road, which earned him close to $200 million
where users could exchange a variety of goods,
both legal and illegal, which was drugs in most cases.
At age 26, Ross was arrested
and handed a double life sentence
plus 40 years without parole.
Now to put this in perspective,
he's a 26 year old first time offender
with no criminal history, all nonviolent charges,
and he was given exactly twice
the prison sentence of El Chapo.
Ever since Ross went to prison,
his mother, Lynn, has been campaigning
to expose the insane corruption within our judicial system
and the draconian sentences handed down
by prosecutors and judges.
This podcast is short, but so important for people to hear.
Without further ado, please welcome Lynn Ulbricht.
So thanks for joining me on this and doing this, Lynn.
I really appreciate it.
I appreciate your having me.
So for the people listening and watching who may not know,
basically your son is Ross Ulbricht,
who I believe at the age of 31,
had created a billion dollar e-commerce website
called Silk Road and is now serving
two life sentences for it.
That just got a couple of errors.
Okay.
Just to straighten that out.
Okay, please.
It was, first of all, he was 26.
He wasn't 31.
And it wasn't a billion dollars,
although that is often said in the media,
which is completely inaccurate,
the government's own estimate of everything
on the Silk Road legal and illegal
and everything else was 183 million.
180 billion is 1,000 million.
183 million is a far cry from a billion.
And often they'll say over a billion.
It is not accurate.
And I'm just going by the government's own stats.
So is it just the headlines and the media
that are saying a billion,
or was it the government who said it was over a billion?
The government said 183 million.
That's, yeah, it's the media.
The media, you know, echoing each other
with false information, which happens to all two people.
So how did this whole story begin for you
with Ross and what he was doing?
And can you just give me, from your perspective,
how this whole thing unraveled
and how long ago did this happen?
Ross is arrested, 2013.
Ross is arrested November, sorry, October 1st, 2013.
And his father and I found out about it from Reuters.
A Reuters reporter called us, we had no clue.
And yeah, I mean, and then all of everything hit the fan
and, you know, all kinds of media were coming by the house
and they were saying Ross was involved with Murder for Hire,
which was inconceivable and still is.
And he was never charged with that at trial, by the way.
And it just became a complete maelstrom
of stuff.
And that's, my life's never been the same since, basically.
That was pretty much it.
It was actually October 2nd when we found out
he was arrested October 1st.
And I found out from a Reuters reporter who called us.
How close were you and Ross during that time?
Or like the years leading up to that?
Well, Ross was living in California.
I was living in Austin, Texas and in Costa Rica
where we had a business.
So my husband and I.
So we were close and, you know, everything
and on good terms and, you know, and always were,
but we weren't living in the same state even.
So, you know, and I wasn't with my daughter either.
I mean, they both, you know, are doing their thing.
Did you have any idea like what he was doing for a living?
Did he talk to you about like how he made his money?
What he was doing every day or?
He had a book business in Austin,
an online book business called Good Wagon Books.
And actually he contributed 10% or so to charity,
local charities from that business.
And a friend, Renee Pennell, said,
hey, come on out to California where I am.
Ross is ready to move on from the business.
And he said, I want to get into some venture capital stuff
and some startups and I want you to be involved and like that.
So he went out to California
and was looking into that kind of thing.
That's what, that's my understanding
of what he was doing at that time.
He did tell, he did say that he created,
he was very on fire for freedom.
He was very involved with the Ron Paul campaign in 2008.
And he brought Ron Paul to Penn State when he was there
as a graduate student and became very passionate
about free markets and about Bitcoin,
which and the potential for monetary freedom with Bitcoin
and told me about Bitcoin.
In fact, I even said, should I get some?
And he said, no mom, it's too volatile.
And I'm like, wow, it was probably about 50 cents then.
Okay, anyway, that was a mistake.
And in any case, he was very passionate about that
and free markets and he wanted to bring those principles
and experience to people and he created a video game
to that end, but didn't get it published
and then turned to the internet
and created the Silk Road website,
which was based on the non-aggression principle
of strictly voluntary interaction, no force,
didn't strictly forbidden were things,
and this is all according to the government as well,
things that harmed a third party.
So if two people want to exchange something
and it doesn't harm a third party,
it was pretty much permitted from my understanding,
but if it did harm a third party, for instance, child porn,
it was not allowed because that hurts a child
on so many levels, right?
Or stolen property, that hurts the owner of the property.
So those things were not permitted.
It was strictly by the non-aggression principle,
which is basically a libertarian principle.
Drugs were permitted.
You know, it was considered a free choice
among individuals.
Mostly user amounts of cannabis
was what was exchanged on the site.
And so, yeah, so he started that and...
Yeah, so Silk Road was basically just...
I didn't know about it.
I didn't know a thing about it.
I mean, it just, you know, until he was arrested.
Right, I mean, essentially what he created
was just a platform where people could buy and sell goods,
an agreement between a buyer and a seller
that kept anonymity and they could,
and they would use Bitcoin
and they would be able to maintain complete,
keep themselves anonymous, essentially.
Yeah, that was the point.
And there were a lot of legal things exchanged.
You don't hear about that ever,
but, you know, books and art and electronics
and, you know, the whole list.
And it's on our, I sent the link
and actually maybe you guys are gonna put it up,
but there's a whole, and our website also has it,
of a lot of the things that were listed.
It's kind of like an eBay, but it was, you know, private
and it actually, plenty of people sell drugs on eBay too.
So, but, you know, it's more open about that.
Exactly, it was eBay.
It was basically an eBay
that you had to jump through a few extra hoops
to get on it and to use it.
Yeah, you had to open a Bitcoin account.
You had to fund the Bitcoin account
and you had to know how to use Tor.
As Bitcoin was the only, you know, currency permitted
on the site, which is why Ross has so much support
among the cryptocurrency community
because really his vision brought, you know,
put it on the map.
Bitcoin would not be worth, I look today, $18,000.
If it weren't for Ross really bringing it,
making it prove itself as money.
And I've been told by people in the community
that he's the second most important person
in Bitcoin history after Satoshi Nakamoto,
who created Bitcoin.
So, yeah, so that was his vision.
But Ross's intention was always for freedom
and privacy and the individual.
He's very, you know, feels very strongly about that.
And yeah, that's what his intention was.
It wasn't to be a drug kingpin.
And actually, as a side thing, the judge,
Judge Forrest, who gave him that barbaric sentence,
basically a death in prison sentence
for all nonviolent charges.
She said at sentencing,
we know that you started the site for philosophical reasons.
So she knew he wasn't a drug kingpin.
I don't think El Chapo or Pablo Escobar,
that philosophical, I just, that's just my guess.
They do it for money and power, right?
Ross was doing it for philosophical reasons.
And she said, but I'm just not sure
it's a philosophy you've left behind.
And basically she's saying for that,
if you haven't given up that philosophy
of voluntary interaction and, you know,
do no harm to third party and non-aggression principle,
I'm gonna have to condemn you to die in a cage.
That's basically what she said in so many words.
It's ridiculous to think that somebody like El Chapo,
I think he only got life plus 30 years.
He got half the sentence, Ross got half.
And your son got double life sentence.
Double life plus 40 years.
It's ridiculous.
It's such a piece of government power, it's shocking.
It is, it puts us all in danger if some judge,
and by the way, it was her fifth life sentence that year,
it was only May.
You know, she's quite free with the life sentences
this woman, although she's retired now,
thankfully for justice, you know.
She shouldn't be, she, you know,
I was told by a very high powered lawyer in New York,
she had no business being on the bench.
But anyway, she was.
And, but yeah, El Chapo, half the sentence.
Noriega, Noriega got 20 years.
You know, and there's, we have a whole list of kingpins
on our site that have a fraction of the sentence Ross does.
Ross who has no record of violence,
no history in his life of violent nothing, you know.
He's a geek, an idealistic geek who had, who, you know,
I'm not saying, hey, not a good idea, mistake.
He admits it, he regrets it,
but double life plus 40 years for that.
Is there any chance that he could be pardoned?
I'm hopeful, you know, there's always a chance.
I'm hopeful.
I've heard stuff like that with like Edward Snowden,
that there was a chance of him possibly getting pardoned.
There's, it could be helpful for him too.
I mean, President Trump has indicated and shown
that he is very open to clemency for people.
He has given pardons and commutations to people
during his term, his four years.
And he also pushed forward the first step act
against the will of a lot of his party
which improved thousands,
well, brought thousands of people out of prison
who were serving these horrible sentences
that are way past what they should be serving
and destroying so many families.
So I think, you know, President Trump could see,
I hope he can see that this sentence
is actually a terrible precedent
that not only hurts Ross, but can hurt others
because it sets this, now a precedent is set
for nonviolent first time offender,
no criminal record whatsoever,
no, nothing about harming anyone,
you know, inflicting bodily injury or any of that,
getting double life plus 40 years.
This is unheard of, but I think that,
I can tell you my theory on it,
I think that he threatened some very powerful people
with the idea of Bitcoin.
Bitcoin was very new and unknown.
And I think that having this currency
that was out of the control of the financial powers,
I think that was a real issue.
And I think that they needed to make an example.
And one of the reasons I think so
is that a couple of years ago,
the Intercept revealed through Snowden
that the NSA was urgently tracking Bitcoin users
and trying to track them down
a few months before the Silk Road was taken down.
They were concerned about Bitcoin.
They were concerned about this thing.
And I think that Ross, because,
and I wasn't sure about it, you know,
I thought, well, maybe it's the drugs,
maybe it's this, that even though he was never accused
of actually selling drugs,
but then I saw that the biggest drug seller
on the site got 10 years.
He has the same offense level as Ross.
So obviously they're not that concerned about the drugs.
You know, and it goes down from there.
Everybody involved in the case got way less time.
And the guy who was running Silk Road 2,
which was a copycat site only it was bigger,
according to the government, he got no time.
He's out.
He just, I don't know how he got out,
but he did, you know,
cause they were saying we caught him and all of a sudden
he went away.
So his name is Blake Benthal, B-E-N-T-H-A-L.
And so nobody, I was like, whatever happened to that guy?
And we went on the prison website and they tell you
where different inmates are.
And his had released.
He was released after 13, 14 days after he was arrested.
And he was running a bigger site, copycat,
the government called identical.
And so this is wrong, you know,
you don't give one sentence to for similar crimes.
This is ridiculous.
No sentence versus double life, plus 40, you know,
makes no sense.
What do you think it was?
What do you think the true,
if there could possibly be any logical explanation for it,
even if it's buried in like the muck of prosecutors
and the politics of the whole thing,
what do you think the reason was they put,
or they went to the extent to try to cover up things
and lie about things to try to slam him
with this insane sentence?
Like obviously they wanted to make an example of him, right?
But what do you think?
Do you think there was like a deeper underlying
incentive for them to do this besides the Bitcoin?
I don't think it was personal or anything.
I think, you know, they wanted a trophy.
They knew they, and you can see in our,
there are things on the, we have a video.
It's also a podcast.
It's also written.
It's all footnoted.
It's based on the public record.
They knew that he, in fact, the lead investigator
in the case never thought it was Ross.
Never thought Ross was the dread pirate Roberts.
Now, it's pretty well established.
And he even said at trial, I heard him with my own ears
that there were many people that were running that site.
It wasn't just Ross.
But according to the, you know, the old fashioned thing,
they need a perpetrator.
They need a perpetrator.
And I, you know, I think Ross was set up.
I think, you know, he took the fall for this,
but it's pretty well established.
She was not the only one.
And, but they, you know, it's like putting a,
the head on the pike in medieval castle, you know,
when, you know, if you do what they did,
you're going to end up with your head on a pike.
That's what they were attempting, I think with this.
And actually the prosecutors didn't even ask for double life.
That judge gave it to him.
They wanted, you know, they wanted a hefty sentence,
but they never publicly at least said double life
or even life.
So she just, you know, decided he deserved to die
in a cage, literally.
And no redemption, no chance.
You know, he's 29 when this happened.
And that young, never violent,
and he doesn't get a chance to redeem himself.
You know, it's, it's not American.
It's just, it's like something you'd have
in a tyrannical state, not in America.
Well, I think the, I think America has
the most prisoners per capita than any country.
That's correct.
That's correct.
It's terrible.
It's an outrage.
And it's been since the drug war.
Before the drug war, it was a prison population
was a relatively stable, I think it was 180,000
or something.
And since then it's just ballooned into 800% more.
So it's millions of people.
And it's cause of the drug war.
Over 60% of the people in prison
are nonviolent drug offenders and immigration offenders,
mostly drugs.
And before that, it was, it was more like a regular system
that was had some justice.
This is like, this is horrendous what's going on.
What has it been like since he was sentenced for you guys?
What has it been?
Like, what has your life been like since?
Yeah, that was probably the worst day of my life,
because before when he was convicted,
I thought, well, we're gonna fight this,
we're gonna do this, but he'll never,
it's like, we'll see, but I will get him out.
And then when we, that day of sentencing,
I was just, it was just the worst.
It was just like, I'd been told my son was dead
or something, it was just horrible.
And then I, you gotta just dust yourself off.
And I thought, okay, gotta keep going.
I cannot live with this.
I cannot live with him rotting away
and essentially in a box.
I mean, right now he's been since COVID
on a 22 to 24 hour lockdown
in an eight by 10 metal box fed through a slot in the door.
No breaks now, right now it's 24 hours.
Sometime, it used to, for a while it was 22 hours, you know,
and they got out for two hours.
24 hours a day, day after day in a metal box
staring at a metal wall because of COVID.
You know, this is unacceptable, this cannot.
So I, so basically my life's been actually
before sentencing and after sentencing.
My main goal every day is the eye on the prize
of Ross's freedom of seeing him walk out of that place.
And going on to live his life,
and I think make a contribution.
I mean, Ross has a lot of very great ideas.
He's quite intelligent.
And he even recently wrote, it's published on medium.com
and he's written a lot of things that are on medium
as well as on our website.
But just to show his intentions,
I don't know if you're aware of the issue
with what's app being private, but pedophiles
and other, you know, nefarious people
hiding behind that cover.
And through artificial intelligence,
Ross has come up with a way that can maintain privacy
but still not allow that kind of activity.
Don't ask me to explain it.
I tried to read it.
I can't even understand it.
But he did run it by experts who said,
it's got a lot of promise.
I think you're onto something,
but he can't develop it because he's in prison.
So that's just an example of the kind of thing
he wants to do.
He's very philanthropic really and compassionate.
And that's where he was coming from with Silk Road.
Not saying you didn't make a mistake.
I'm not saying that it was a bad idea in a lot of ways.
I'm not defending it.
I'm just saying his intentions.
That's a 26 year old idealist.
That's where he was coming from.
And he's still idealistic
and he still cares about humanity.
And he's being wasted.
He's just being wasted in there.
So he's actually creating new concepts for technology
and for these apps and still innovating
from prison essentially?
Essentially.
I mean, and he doesn't get on the internet.
So I'm not sure exactly how he's managing this,
but he's been reading about AI
in artificial intelligence for a while.
And I don't know.
He's just, and he's got other writings in there
about Bitcoin and about,
and even some things, personal things,
like he is one that's the five keys to inner strength
I learned in five years in prison
that is quite inspirational.
His attitude is amazing.
I'm inspired to keep going by him
because he will not let himself be brought down
and become bitter or become paralyzed by the situation.
He just won't.
And many, of course, understandably do.
And he just, he won't.
He just, he won't go down the negative track.
I mean, I've been guilty myself of like,
you know, I always have a few words to say
about the judge say to him.
And he's like, nope, we're not gonna go there.
It's just, she's part of the system.
It doesn't matter.
She doesn't matter.
It's all, and I'm like, yeah, but blah, blah, blah.
And he's like, nope, we're not gonna go,
we're not gonna let this,
because what can happen, of course, is the negativity
and the anger and the fear and all that stuff
can just drag you down to the point where you're,
and he won't, he is very disciplined about that.
And it helps me because I'm like, yeah, I can't,
I gotta control my thinking so I don't get dragged down
because I'm no good to anybody if I do.
What are your conversations like with Ross nowadays?
And how often do you guys communicate?
Not, well, you can't call anymore
because he's on this 24-hour day lockdown.
So usually, and he's at very limited minutes.
He can't talk very long.
So they're usually fairly, you know, superficial in a way
because it's like, how are you?
Are you feeling okay?
What you eat, you know, it's like,
and you know, he's like, how are you?
And you know, it's like that.
And then it goes, you are talking to a federal.
You have like, you have like 10 or 15 minutes, right?
That's it.
Well, yeah, but he's saving his minutes.
He's trying to ration his minutes.
And so, yeah, it's, so we don't usually talk a full 15 even
because it, he wants to spread it out over the month.
But now he has no, he can't call
because they don't let him out of the cell because of COVID.
Even though in his unit, there is no case of COVID,
but you know, don't ask me about why the prison
does a lot of things, right?
What prison is he in?
He's at the maximum security prison in Tucson, Arizona.
Maximum security.
Yeah, he's been in maximum security prison.
First, he went to Florence.
And the reason he's a maximum is because of his sentence
because it's an automatic life sentence.
You're in the maximum.
His, if you went by his, they take a score
for your offense levels in terms of your danger,
even with his charges, which are, you know, up his scope.
On violet.
Yeah, he'd be in a camp.
When he came to that first prison in Florence, Colorado,
which by the way is the step down from the Supermax,
it's a huge prison complex.
It's there.
It's a very gang-heavy, violence-heavy prison
that they threw him into.
They said, what are you doing in here?
They're looking at the paperwork going, what are you,
and then they go, oh yeah, the sentence.
He'd be in a camp.
He'd be, you know, based on his, you know, score.
And, but that's what they do.
They put you in maximum.
So now he isn't a maximum, but he's in a safer place
because the other place, what happened was they have,
he was being pressured to, with another guys,
but they were being pressured to beat up
what they said was a snitch, this guy.
And this happens in there where they're like,
you've got to do this, you know, or else, or else, you know.
And Ross said, look, I'm not violent.
I'm not going to beat up some guy.
I'm not going to do it.
I don't even know the guy.
I mean, there's no, why would I, you know?
And so he resisted and put himself in protective custody,
which was solitary for like three months.
And then, thankfully, was sent to Tucson,
which is one of three, what they call, safeguards
in the system for people who would be a targeted
if they were led into the regular population,
which Ross would be now because he refused to do that.
And so it's safe, you know, it's still prison.
It's still maximum security,
but it doesn't have violent people in there.
And so it's not as much of a danger, you know.
He was a very dangerous place he was in before.
But now you're saying he's confined
into just a box by himself, basically solitary.
No, he actually has a, he has, hang on one second.
He has a cellmate.
Okay.
Now, can you explain to me and for the people listening,
essentially the part of his case
that helped them justify the two life sentences
was saying that he solicited murders.
No, it wasn't the case, in the case.
It was somehow a part of-
It was, okay.
He was indicted in Maryland for that.
It was based on the material provided by a corrupt agent
who has been in prison for the last six years.
I believe he just was released.
So, hey, you know, who supposedly had this conversation
with an anonymous chat with supposedly Dredpire Roberts.
No proof it was Ross whatsoever.
Anyway, that was submitted to Maryland.
That has now been dismissed with prejudice.
It never went to trial, it was never prosecuted.
It's cause there were two cases.
Then there was in New York where he was, did go to trial.
That was never charged, the jury never ruled on it.
And it was never part of his convictions.
He was not convicted of anything to do with violence
whatsoever or murder for hire or planning any violence.
So this was something that the prosecutors talked about
that they indicted Maryland and dropped.
And of course, the media, you know, picked up on it
and it's become part of the story.
But there's no proof of that.
Who was the agent that you said is in prison now?
Well, I think he might've just been let out,
but Carl Mark Force is his name.
And this is all covered in that same thing,
the Silk Road real and untold story that's on our site.
But in detail, footnoted.
But yeah, Carl Mark Force.
There's another corrupt agent who also had run of the site.
They had full reign of sight.
They could act like Dread Pirate Roberts.
They could change chats.
They changed evidence potentially.
And his name is Sean Bridges.
And I believe he is still in prison.
I'm pretty sure.
So these two agents, and the real kicker about these agents
is that they were not allowed to be known to the jury.
So when Ross's lawyers were like,
we're gonna tell the jury that there are these two agents.
They could change stuff on the site.
They could act as Dread Pirate Roberts.
The judge shot it down.
She would not allow the agents to be known to the jury.
So I didn't even know about them until two months later
when it all came out in the news.
But by then, Ross had been convicted.
It was too late.
Do you still have any contact with his attorney?
His trial attorney, no.
Trial attorney.
His name is Josh, right?
Ostratell, no.
And he was also the attorney for the appeal,
but no, I don't.
Now, was he court appointed or did Ross hire him?
He was highly recommended and we hired him.
And what is his take on all of this?
What is his?
I don't know.
I mean, he's, yeah, oh no.
I mean, obviously he fought for Ross.
He thought he should be released.
His thing was that Ross was set up
and that someone else was doing this.
That he started the site, yes.
And that's all, again, in that piece on the website.
So yeah, he's just a defense attorney.
He felt like it was railroaded.
So what are you doing now with your website, freeross.org?
And just give me an example of kind of like,
what is your mission now?
And what are you doing with the website,
trying to inform people and be active and outspoken
about what's going on?
Well, one of the main things on our website is a petition
that please, anyone listening, if you haven't signed it,
please go to freeross.org and sign the petition.
There's a big red banner,
or you can go to freeross.org slash petition
and it'll go right to change.org where it is.
And it's approaching 360,000 people signed it.
I haven't been on it lately, but if it's not there,
it's close.
People, hundreds, way over a quarter of a million people
think that Ross should be, sentence should be commuted.
I have personally, done a lot of interviews on media
as well as attended many conferences over the years,
just spreading the word, correcting the narrative,
promoting, raising funds that's always an issue
because lawyers are very expensive people.
But, and doing that and just in general,
keeping this alive.
I feared that Ross would be forgotten.
He's buried alive over there in the metal box,
essentially, and it's easy to forget.
There's a lot going on in the world right now.
And so a lot of my intention is to keep people,
not let him be forgotten.
Once he's out, if he wanna forget, I'm fine.
It's like not forget him and all the other people.
I mean, he's not unique in having a terrible sentence
and a really unjust, cruel sentence.
There's thousands and thousands of people that are,
I mean, I believe there's 150 people
with life sentences for marijuana.
Well, I know that Ron Ross's friends in Florence,
the place he was before this,
is serving a life sentence for marijuana.
And it's in Colorado where on the state level,
marijuana is legal and the guy's serving life.
It's just, it's insane, just insane.
So not by serving life for marijuana in Colorado.
Yeah.
Does Ross talk about what he wants to do
if he ever has the chance to be a free man again?
They were talking about what he would do
or what sort of aspirations he has.
Well, he said he will work for criminal justice reform
because he's seen firsthand, of course,
for over seven years now,
that how much reform is needed.
And he knows the people personally and, you know,
so he said he would definitely work for that.
I imagine it since he's doing work in prison
about different ways that he can help people
through his knowledge of technology
that'll continue to do that.
Like what, you know, like the paper I was telling you about,
he's got, he's full of ideas, you know?
But I would say that it's,
he's still a very much of a freedom loving person.
He believes in that.
And so I would imagine that would be as it continued
to be his inspiration, but it, but all legal, all legal.
He seems like
We will never come near breaking the law again.
No, I mean, he seems like,
like someone who could be such an asset to society.
I agree.
To the country.
I mean, someone that young, that creative,
I mean, he has the potential to inspire so many people
to make the world a better place with what he can do
with his skill, with his talent, with his knowledge.
It's just, it's such a shame that this brutal system
that put him away for so long, it's just such a shame.
And it's so depressing to think that people still,
the system still works like this to this very day.
And there's so many people that are just going to waste away
and have given up on never getting, on ever getting out.
Yeah.
I mean, people, victimless crimes, quote unquote,
where, where this was, you know, no one was forced,
no one was hurt, no one, this is not right.
You don't do life for that, you know?
It's, yeah, our country,
our country's criminal justice system
has been weaponized against people.
And it's very alarming, really, when you think about it.
It's very, very concerning.
And it's become this mass incarceration
that is huge money, giant money.
All kinds of people are making money off of it,
both privately and government is.
And it's, but the taxpayers are funding this thing.
And it's billions of dollars.
So it's just, it's horrible.
How long do you think this COVID lockdown
is going to go for?
I don't know.
I mean, I don't know.
I just, it might be quite a while.
Because before COVID, you could visit him in person, right?
Yeah. And actually there was a little one time,
which was in October, this past month,
that I did get to visit him very briefly.
And then they locked him down again.
So, yeah.
But that was the only time I visited him since March.
And he doesn't, you know, now there's no visits, so.
Can you email?
No, he doesn't have email privileges
because it was a quote unquote internet crime.
And he tried to get them, he appealed to the Bureau of Prisons,
but they didn't, they said no.
Wow.
Hey, listen, a national gang leader
who could organize riots across the country has email,
but Ross doesn't have email.
So tell me how that makes any sense.
Doesn't make any sense.
And that's why I think it's so important for, you know,
that's why I wanted to have this conversation with you.
Because I think it's super important to,
to shine light on things like this
and make more people aware of it.
And, you know, I don't know how,
I don't know how else we could solve this problem,
but to just shine more light on it
and make more people aware of it.
Yeah.
So the petition is on freeross.org and people can sign it.
And how many people are you guys,
do you guys need to get to make something happen?
You know, there is no magic number,
360,000 is a pretty big number.
Basically, I've been using it as a PR tool
in terms of if I talk to a legislator and I go,
hey, check out the petition.
This is 360,000 people who, and they go, whoa, it's a movement.
This isn't just one guy, some guy, it's a movement.
And it has become a movement.
And so it's, it's really to show,
so it's not like, oh, it reaches this magic number
and he's out.
No, that doesn't work.
I wish it did, we'd be.
But it does help and it shows backing
and it gives, you know, emphasis to this.
And I think, you know, it's helpful
because really it helps me get people to support our thing
knowing they know all these people are behind it.
And there's lots of others.
I mean, the libertarian party came out officially
asking for clemency for Ross.
Many leaders, if you go on our website,
there's a page called widespread support.
It's impressive.
There are a lot of people speaking out for Ross.
Just recently, Congressman Thomas Massey tweeted,
it's time to free Ross and Snowden and Assange,
but you know, it's just free Ross Ulbricht.
And other people in politics as well as in the tech sector,
as well as in the cryptocurrency world, you know,
there's all kinds of people and just politics
and just people who are well-known have come out for Ross.
And on both sides of the aisle, it's not just libertarians,
it's, you know, people on the left, people on the right,
all can see that this is wrong,
that this sentence puts everyone in peril.
If they can do it to him, they can do it to other people.
It's not just him, you know, it matters.
It impacts the precedent that they can use
to cage more people for longer.
Well, I can't thank you enough for doing this.
I really appreciate you taking the time to share
with our audience, your story,
and I'm super grateful for you doing this.
I'm grateful to you for giving me voice.
I'll put the links in the description
for people to visit freeross.org.
Is there anything else I should link down below
for people to go find more information or take action?
We've got the link to the petition and link to the website
and then the link to that documented information
that is really quite riveting.
And, you know, you can listen to it as a podcast
or watch it as kind of a little video or just read it.
And I recommend it if you're at all interested in the case.
It's documented.
So it's all based on the public record.
I wish I had the whole thing,
but much of the evidence is still sealed and encrypted.
And that's another question.
Why is the government continuing to hide this,
what's in this case?
If it's done and they got their man,
why aren't, and they did it all according to the book,
why is the information sealed?
But it is undisclosed.
So, but even just working from the public record,
it's shocking.
It's a real insight into how the whole thing works
and who is involved and we have, you know,
all kinds of cast of characters in there.
And it's pretty interesting.
So I reckon I only have a professional narrator
who volunteered his time to do it.
And it's really, it's quite good.
It's, it's, I believe, I mean,
as far as other similar stories I've heard
with prosecutors trying to pin people like this,
is their careers depend on it.
And at the point, once you get entangled
in a certain web of lies, you can't just,
okay, we'll come clean on this,
because then you're gonna, you're gonna open up a can of worms
to a whole nother slew of lies
and you're gonna put politicians or judges' jobs
at risk, their careers at risk.
And they, you know, they don't wanna ruin their jobs
or their careers or compromise their friends' careers
over one kid's life.
Right.
Yeah.
It's calm.
It's so gross.
It's so common.
It's so gross.
It is.
Even though murder for hire thing,
I've talked to many people, oh yeah, they did that.
They do, even our lawyer, I said, thank you,
but they don't know proof.
And he goes, yeah, they do that.
They put it on there to prejudice people.
I've had people say they did it to them, have told me.
It's just what they do.
They smear the person to make them appear worse
so they can be sure and get, I mean, it's really horrible.
For us, it's become out of control.
And they, when people, you know, they're arrested
and then they're like, well, you better plea
and not go to trial because if you go to trial,
you're gonna lose, which is probable.
And you'll get a worse punishment.
So they threaten them.
They threaten their families.
This is what I've been told firsthand.
And so they go, okay, I'll plead to whatever,
even though if I didn't do it.
And that's why 98% of people plead, cop a plea
because they're bullied and pressured
and threatened by prosecutors.
If he would have basically said, I'm guilty of everything
and would he have been able to take a way lesser sentence?
Say like, would he have been able to get maybe 10 years
if he said, oh, I'm guilty and just...
Well, 10 years was the mandatory minimum initially.
But I don't know what that judge would have done
or it's so hard for me to say what she would have done.
I mean, I don't know.
I'm not sure.
Thank you so much for your timeline.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
