Welcome, Jack. Hey, thanks for having me. You have an incredible podcast, man. The Teamhouse
podcast. How did you tell people that are listening a brief history of yourself, your
life in the military, and then how you started this incredible podcast? Yeah, I'll try to
sum it up. The short version joined the military at age 19, grew up in suburbs of New York,
served in the Ranger Regiment in Special Forces, eight years in the Army, deployed three times,
got out in 2010, went to Columbia, majored in political science, found my way into journalism
around that point, and been working as essentially national security journalist for about 10 years
now. The podcast was sort of a separate business endeavor, I guess you could say, but it kind of
leveraged some of those connections and networking that I did within that national security sphere.
And so we interview a lot of special ops guys, a lot of spies, a lot of people kind of in that
milieu, I guess you could say. I discovered a mad dog, Jim Lawler, from your podcast and got
him in here. Jim's awesome. And so I'm sure that parlayed right into your writing career,
your book, I just finished reading your book, Murphy's Law, which is fascinating.
Yeah, thank you. Hold that thing up so people can see it. I appreciate that, you know,
read it higher, like towards your face. There you go. Read by tens of people, Danny. I got
cheated out of a Pulitzer for this one. No, I'm just kidding. The book was a fun experience to
write it, but I never really promoted or talked about it, so there it is, if you want to hear
the whole life story. What convinced you to actually write a book about your personal experience?
A few different things, but I mean, one of the big ones was a conversation with a friend named
Jim West, who's a retired Special Forces Warrant Officer. And we were talking about this.
Pull that thing a little bit closer. We were talking about this topic. There was a publisher
who was interested in having me write a book. I was hesitant about it. And I realized at a
certain point, like as a writer, as a journalist, I call up people, I meet with people and I asked
them to spill their guts and tell me in some cases these very intimate and traumatic experiences
they've been through. But at the same time, I wanted to tell everyone's story except my own.
And my friend Jim was like, well, yeah, that's the PTSD speaking right there. You're afraid of
talking about your own past. And at that point, it's kind of like, fuck, you're not wrong. And
at that point, it becomes like this thing, like I kind of have to confront that and go through
that and actually tell my piece of it. What was that like confronting that and going through
it yourself? Was it helpful? Yeah, it was. It was a good experience to go back and write about all
of that and kind of, it's like sort of formatting your own life and your own experiences and kind
of figuring out where to place all of that and what it means. And in a lot of cases, also going
back and talking to old teammates and friends. And I don't want to say rehashing, but to go back
and say, hey, do you remember that thing that happened? How do you remember it? What was that
like and kind of getting these other perspectives and kind of, it was an interesting kind of
revisiting of the past. So when you first joined the military, can you explain what that was like
and like what you had? My audio sounds weird. Does it look okay on there? Maybe it's just my
headphones. When you first joined the military, like what branch of the military did you first
join? And like, how did that evolve? Like, where did you go? Because you explained that initially,
I think you wanted to be a sniper. Is that right? Well, actually, initially, I looked at the Marine
Corps and like a lot of people, the Marine Corps recruits, try to play hardball and, you know,
people end up going and looking elsewhere. And I was one of those people,
went down the hall to the Army. And I enlisted on a, it was called an Option 40. It's a Ranger
contract, which, you know, it guarantees you the opportunity to try out for the Ranger Regiment.
So go to basic training, airborne school. And then what was known at that time, RIP,
the Ranger Indoctrination Program. And if you graduate, then you get assigned to one of the
three Ranger battalions. Rangers are like, that's one of the most hardcore things you can get into
as being a Ranger. Yeah, yeah, it's a airborne light infantry unit. It was an interesting period.
When I got there, it was 2003 when I got to Ranger Battalion that summer. It was right after the
guys were just coming back from Iraq, the invasion. And the unit was going through this
interesting sort of cultural shift from being a sort of white infantry unit with its sort of
origins, still very much, I think, rooted in the Vietnam conflict with this idea of patrolling in
the woods and doing patrol based activities and doing raids and things like this. It was transitioning
to becoming more of like a counterterrorism unit that could do these strike operations and hunting
high value targets. And so there's like this interesting cultural transition that was taking
place. Like when I first got there, we had the LCE and your load carrying equipment was just
pretty much the same stuff the guys wore in Vietnam. And there are these meticulous tie-down
standards that you have to tie every pouch down and burn the ends of the 550 cord and make it all
look like dress right dress. But then that thing gets hung up in the wall locker and never used.
It's like vestigial of the past. And we have this new kit that's coming in for the war on terror
that we're actually using. So it was an interesting, I think, transitional period for the range of
regiment. How old were you the first time you got deployed overseas over to the Middle East?
First time I was deployed, I think I was 21, as I recall, in Afghanistan.
Okay. And what were the type of things that you were doing over there? Like what was,
were you, at what point did you become a sniper? I was a sniper on that deployment,
my first deployment overseas. If that was, again, it was sort of an interesting period in Afghanistan,
the invasion had taken place, but the insurgency had not really kicked into high gear. So it was
the sort of like in-between period. So this was after they kicked out the bath party?
This is Afghanistan. Afghanistan. Okay, I'm sorry. It was after, you know,
the Taliban had been defeated as far as a governmental entity no longer existed.
Ben Laden and a lot of the Al Qaeda guys fled across the border to Pakistan.
There were Taliban holdouts, there were people who had gone into hiding,
but there wasn't really a organized resistance to the American occupation at that time.
But we still stayed busy. I mean, we did, you know, I think a few dozen raids while we were in
country, but it wasn't, you know, probably like what guys experienced later on, you know, the
Marines and the Rangers and everyone else who was over there when that insurgency really got hot.
How, yeah, what happened after that? What happened? And can you explain like what sort
of transpired and how the insurgency really like started to develop out there?
Well, yeah, I mean, I wasn't there. That was my one trip to Afghanistan. But I mean,
the Taliban was able to reorganize and constitute a armed resistance to the United States. And,
you know, clearly the people of that country chose the Taliban over, you know, whatever America
was offering. Reading your book, one of the most eye-opening things about your book to me was
when you explained like life, you said death seemed meaningless to you. Like death didn't
mean anything. And life, you said there was nothing special or spiritual about it. You think
that it was just like life and death was just a thing. Like once you're dead, then that's it.
You're forgotten about it. It's just blood. It's curtains.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I think as a soldier, like you go about doing your job and a lot of people
don't understand that, that it is a job. It's an occupation and you get on with it, right? You see
it as a job that you check into work, you do, you know, your tasks and, you know, you can rest when
the mission's over. You know, I think what the part of the book you're referencing is when we
killed a terrorist, he was squirting off an objective, meaning he was trying to escape.
He wasn't surrendering. He was trying to run away. And our rules of engagement authorized us to
kill people who are just terrorists, who are trying to run away. And we did and we brought his body
back to the base. And I just remember looking at him, I had actually watched this guy die.
Was this the guy that was running away? Yeah. And the entire task force opened fire on him.
Yeah. And so this guy's corpse, I mean, I watched the guy be shot and killed. And then his corpse,
you know, was there outside our, you know, operation center. And, you know, just riddled with
bullets and, you know, flies crawling across his face. And looking at him, it's just that
experience hits you like this guy was a human being, he was a bad person, but he was a living
human being. And then we made him a dead human being. And that sort of thread between life and
death. You could sort of, I guess, sort of the sanctity that we tend to apply to human life
here in America or, you know, the Western world or, I mean, even then it's too much. I mean,
there's people in other cultures who apply a sanctity of life, I should say, in a war zone,
that sanctity, I think, disappears rather quickly, evaporates into thin air.
Yeah. That's so interesting to see that perspective. I was just listening to
Joby Warwick talk on a podcast, my friend Julian did, and he was explaining
a situation where he saw a house get raided and a guy got put like the father of somebody got
put on the ground, they put his hands behind his head and they tied him up. And the guy's son,
the guy's like 11 year old son came out and didn't know what was going on. And he just came down
with no one talking to him or anything, came outside and just laid down next to his father
with his hands behind his back. Where was this? I want to say it was in Afghanistan or Iraq,
so somewhere out there in the Middle East. And that hit me hard, like the perspective of those
people. And how they grew up like that? And how they grew up like that. And that's another
thing that you mentioned in your book that hit me hard was you explain how the people who live
out there and the people, when you compare them to the people that live out here, it's like two
different species evolving on separate timelines. Yeah, yeah. And I mean, you're absolutely right
that I don't want to make that sound like some sort of like pejorative or like racial, you know,
prejudiced argument. No, it didn't seem that way at all. Yeah, yeah, the way I mean, I mean, it's
an issue of poverty and the extreme poverty that these people live in, and that their lives are
so different than ours that yeah, it feels like we're like almost different species on different
kind of tracks, right? One of the moments that's kind of burned into my memory that I bring up in
the book was driving down the road. I think I believe it was, it was around the outskirts of
Missoul. And there was this pothole in the road. And when I say a pothole, I mean, it was like the
size of a semi truck, it was this like huge hole in the ground, just filled with like putrid black
water. And there were two little kids in the water like five years old splashing each other.
Oh, and it's like, we're not we ain't Kansas anymore. You know, another another Iraq incident
was when I set my rifle down against the vehicle to take my body armor off or take my I think maybe
to take some cold weather gear off. And this little kid made a B line for my rifle. And I was
like, Oh, that's not good. And I kind of reached over and I scooped them up before we could get to
it. And I used to babysit kids when I was a teenager when I was in high school. And so I know how
much like a five six year old kid is supposed to weigh. I picked this kid up and he's like a
feather in my arms. He doesn't weigh anything. They're severely malnourished out in this remote
village in Western Iraq. So yeah, I mean, it's the way of life is so different. It's in Afghanistan
also going into some of these remote valleys. It really does feel like you're on another planet.
I was almost like I was almost brought to tears reading the part two where you said you were
in a house that you had raided and there was a disabled kid in the closet locked in the closet
and somebody fed him an apple or something. One of our teammates gave him an apple and he ate the
whole thing like stem and all. Yeah, there is a kid that they had. I mean, he was a mentally
disabled child. And they had him locked in a closet. If you are suffering any kind of disability
in a country like Iraq or Afghanistan, like you are beyond fucked. Like it's impossible to even
comprehend, you know, people like we tend to call them now little people in the United States.
Midgets in Iraq. You know, it's funny. I've met side note. I've met so many of them,
especially the ones that have the I think it must be a Florida thing, but there's like a bunch of
midget wrestling groups here. Like there's a midget wrestling league and we talked to them.
I'm like, do you guys like being called little people? Like, no, we like being called midgets.
It calls what we are. Well, these folks are like they, they're like used as like T boys in Iraq.
And the people there say, you know, these midgets are quote unquote crazy. They're crazy people.
And so they're treated as like subhuman. And I've seen like people just like going up to
slapping them around and beating the shit out of them. Are there lots of them over there?
And not a lot, but they're around. Yeah. Um, you know, stories in Afghanistan, people who are
crippled and you know, the they'll just get left on the side of the road in the middle of nowhere
to panhandle. Um, yeah, it's it's the stuff that happens to adults over there, especially to
children is just so it's just really terrible. And I have to also caveat some of this. I have a
a jaundiced perspective from being there as a soldier and being there during a war.
If you talk to somebody from who is Afghan or Iraqi and grew up there in that culture,
they couldn't, they can explain some of the other aspects of the culture and some of the,
you know, the beauty and things of that that I have no doubt exist. So I'm very much coming from
a soldier's perspective, uh, in an outsider's perspective.
Yeah. What, what, when you came back, um, and you sort of like left the military, what was your
perspective like hindsight looking on like our pretext for going into Iraq and, and all of,
you know, similar to like the work you're doing now, the work you're doing now, the journalism
you're doing now is kind of like calling out the bullshit that's going on. When you first kind of
discovered some of that stuff that the United States was doing, going in there and what was
your perspective on that and how did you take that? Yeah, you know, I was telling you earlier,
you know, uh, no one really lives a life of empiricism. It's, it's too painful to live like
that. No one lives in a totally fact based world all the time. Um, we all have little stories that
we tell ourselves to a certain extent. Soldiers tell themselves little stories to make sense
of them being in what is a profoundly insane environment. I mean, being in war is, it's not
normal per se. Um, you're seeing insane things every day. You have to have some sort of a way
to rationalize that and explain it. Uh, I remember my teammates and I having conversations and talking
about, you know, maybe the way we got into this conflict was wrong, but we're trying to make the
best of it and try to build this country up into something, you know, and try to help these people
now. And I think that was the story we sort of told ourselves. For me personally, by the time,
you know, 2009, 2010, um, I was very, um, disenchanted with how the war was being prosecuted. Uh,
I didn't believe that we were taking it seriously. And, uh, I made the decision to get out of the
military, you know, as a friend of mine says, you know, we got out during the halftime show.
We punched out and left, um, halfway through the war. Um, and yeah, as, as time goes on, uh,
like a lot of veterans, and I can't speak for other veterans, but I think a lot of us come out
of the military for various reasons, being pretty angry about what we experienced and what we went
through. And then as an individual on your own, you're sort of left to figure out what that experience
means. Uh, what, what was that when, when you look back on it on these things, it seems like a fever
dream when, when you look back and you think about, you know, a firefight that under night vision
goggles, um, you think about, you know, a valley you drove through and you see the woman in Afghanistan
washing plates in the river, um, or the kids splashing each other in the, in the putrid black
water. It seems sort of like a dream. Like did that really happen? Uh, you know, and some of those
things that almost killed you as well. Um, it's gotta be gut wrenching to see kids in those situations,
especially when you have kids. I didn't have children at the time, but it still was. It was,
it was still tough. I mean, it's the stuff with the kids is always that with the things that
fuck people up the worst. Um, and, you know, the collateral damage leads to, you know, the post-traumatic
stress that guys, um, have. It's not from killing the enemy in combat. I don't think that really
bothers, you know, infantrymen, uh, so much, you know, killing armed enemies, one thing. But,
you know, when you see civilians caught up, it's different. Um, so yeah, when,
when guys leave the military, they're sort of left to their own devices to try to figure out
what that experience meant. And I think that, you know, as a group, we're all still struggling with
it. We're all trying to figure it out, especially what happened in Afghanistan, uh, with a botched
withdrawal. Um, a lot of guys are trying to piece together what that means. I want to go,
I want to go deep into, into that stuff and like what it's like dealing with
life after the military and finding meaning and stuff. But real quick, I want to just make
sure I cover one, one thing, another thing that stuck out to me about your book.
I feel like perspective on people over there is so important, especially when it comes to
like, so the way you laid it out in your book was like, you said, imagine if China came to the
United States and put boots on the ground to come help us out in some conflict and started
just raiding houses and, and dragging people's families out and executing them.
If somebody did that to your house and killed your mom and dad or your kids,
it's highly likely that you would be waiting at a bridge with an IED to blow up a fucking Chinese
tank too. It doesn't even have to be like, uh, like Waffen SS type war atrocities, right? What if a foreign
army came here and they were doing the same sort of things we do that we're trying to target a
terrorist network, right? But sometimes we fuck it up, right? We blow down the wrong door, we kill
the wrong person. And, you know, your uncle gets beaten up and dragged, dragged to the prison for
five days. You know, your cousin gets killed because, you know, the, the, this army occupying
army hit the wrong house, hit the wrong, like their mistakes, mistakes. Yeah. Things, you know,
shit happens, collateral damage. And then how do you, how, how is that going to affect you?
Are you more or less likely to join an insurgency at that point? And, you know, I think what,
what I'm trying to get at there is with these wars, these counterinsurgencies in Iraq and
Afghanistan, there's a lot of reasons, um, we're looking at, um, art that our government is looking
at. There's a whole commission on Afghanistan congressional committee that's starting up to
look at like, how did we fuck this up? What did we do wrong? And there's a lot of reasons and a
lot of finger pointing. Um, but very, there's very little talk about the local populations
fundamentally rejecting our proposition, uh, that they fundamentally rejected any sort of foreign
imposition that they did not want foreign personnel, foreign military, foreign soldiers
walking around their streets and, and, you know, essentially telling them what to do. They rejected
that premise and it was just unacceptable to them. And so we can look at these wars and say, oh man,
if we had just like tactically done this instead of that, if our strategy had been, you know,
we had better interoperability, like you can turn it into this intellectual thought problem that
if only we had moved the chess pieces around differently, we could have won the war. Um,
other people will try to blame the media, you know, if it wasn't for the, for the liberal media,
we would have won the war. But when we, when we talk about all of these things, we fundamentally
miss the fact that the local populations in these countries just did not want us there and would
not accept us there. A lot of people just think that the, that culture and people of Islam are
just evil and that the Quran just teaches them to kill Christians. And I just had this guy on
this podcast a couple of days ago, this guy, Beck Lover, who's from, uh, he's from, uh, Kosovo or
Albania. Yeah. And, uh, he was talking, he was educating me a lot on that religion. And basically
it's the, the most closest religion to Christianity from what he was saying and the way, like the
way that they teach it. And just because there's a couple guys in a cave that are doing some evil
shit does not mean you can classify however many billions of people. I think the biggest, the number
two religion in the world. I think there's a billion Muslims in the world, worldwide. Um,
it's a huge population and, you know, the vast majority of them are not engaged in terrorist
activities. Right. And so yeah, we don't want to demonize those, you know, ordinary people going
about their lives. Uh, there is a, and has been for the last, you know, 20, 30 years, a growing,
we could call it Islam, Islamic nationalist movement, um, a movement for political Islam
in some countries. Um, but, you know, what, what mostly concerns us is not sort of like,
you know, the sort of politics we see in Egypt or, or even necessarily Afghanistan,
you could argue. Um, but it's more of the jihadi, Salafist brand of Islam. Um, that tends to be,
you know, violent and interested in particularly doing terrorist operations. And, and that's,
you know, what our chief concern is. So when you got back to the United States, what, what,
what was it like when you got back and you kind of, how long did it take for you to retire from
the military? Did you stay enlisted for a while? Where are you, what were you doing when you came
back? Uh, you mean like in between deployments or after I left the military? Like after you,
like when you, how many deployments did you do in the first place? You did three deployments. So
like when you were done with your deployments, did you stay here in the U S before you retired
or, or like, how did you transition into civilian life and journalism? Uh, yeah. So I came back from
a deployment to Iraq in 2009 and got out of the military in 2010. Didn't have a whole lot of a
plan, which is a bad idea. You know, anybody who's transitioning out of the military have a plan
when you get out. Um, I, uh, got out and went to, uh, I went back home. Uh, I spent that mandatory
like two or three months in my mom's basement playing video games. Uh, got some, um, you know,
signed up for college. I did my first year of school at a, at a school called Mercy in Dobbs
Ferry and then, um, applied to Columbia and transferred over there. I did the last three
years of my undergrad and got my BA. So while I was in college, I mean the, the post 9-11 GI
bill is a great thing and it provides the sort of buffer to transition as well in the civilian.
What is that bill? It's a, uh, the, the post 9-11 GI bill is a bill that will pay for a veteran to
go to college. Um, and it'll also pay a housing allowance. So it's sort of like all of your
expenses are paid. Even, even, there's even a book allowance to buy college textbooks.
So I mean, it's a very soft cushion, uh, for a guy or a woman coming out of the military
after four years or longer, um, to make use of that GI bill. And you have those sort of four
years to transition into civilian life, get yourself a degree and find a new job. Um,
and while I was in school, I was a part of a startup company, a startup news military news
website. And you know, when I did that, I suddenly found myself, uh, in this position where, okay,
now I have to write news. So I kind of fell into it. And, uh, what, what the final one thought to
that was, well, I can't just sit around and tell war stories about, yeah, this is what Iraq was
like in 2005. Who cares? Um, so I started making trips overseas, um, to do reporting from Iraq,
Syria. Uh, I even made trips to the Philippines, Switzerland, uh, South Korea, uh, some, some
interesting stuff. What was that like, man? Going from being over there in these countries,
actually like fighting a war to being over there, working on your own projects, your own
journalistic endeavors. It was so much fun. Uh, it was such a great time. No one was telling me
what to do. I did exactly what I wanted to do. The way I felt it should be done. Uh, the trade
off to that, I mean, some of these experiences were very safe. I mean, South Korea, Switzerland,
like it doesn't really get more safe than that. Right. Um, but some of the stuff going to Iraq
and Syria, um, the trade off to doing this stuff as an independent journalist is that
there's no, uh, airstrikes on call. There's no helicopters coming to pick you up. Uh, there's
no, if you get shot, there's no, you know, highly trained Ranger medic coming to, you know,
plug the wounds and get you into a Skechco, like a stretcher and evacuate you. You don't have any
of that. So you're really out there. I was really out there flapping in some instances. And that's
sort of the trade off, you know, you're, you're living your life the way that you choose and,
and living by your wits. And it's very exciting. Um, but as we were talking about over lunch,
I did get to a point with it where I was like, yeah, if I keep doing this, it's going to kill me.
Yeah. Did you, I talked to, uh, I've talked to another guy on here, um,
Ryan Tate, he was explained to me that he, when he got out of the Marines, he was just
experiencing this like, this like hyper alertness, this hyper vigilance everywhere, everywhere he
went, looking over his shoulder, just like hyper alert of everything was you, were you
experiencing something like that at all? Is that kind of, is that sort of what helped you decide
or made you decide to go back over there and experience that kind of like you're still,
even though you're doing journalism, you're still gambling with life or death situations.
Absolutely addicted to the adrenaline high of war. Um, I think I, the term I used in the book was
that war is intoxicating and it absolutely is. Um, I never experienced sort of like that, um,
like hyper vigilance or like flashbacks, you know, people, you know, like sort of symptoms
you hear about PTSD. When I look back on it, what I realized with exactly this, with what I was doing
with these trips overseas was that I was so addicted to the adrenaline and working in this
high stress environment. What I was doing was I was artificially creating this same high stress
environment or an even more stressful environment in my civilian life. So I was doing these reporting
trips. I was working full-time writing news stories. I was writing novels. I was a full-time
student at an Ivy League university. I was a new father. Holy, I mean, I was, I was basically,
I was traveling all over the city. I was having, every minute I was having phone calls. I was
doing new spots, going, going downtown to do news shows, traveling around the country to do other
things. I mean, I was subconsciously I was doing this. I was working myself to death because I was
just riding that chronic like adrenaline spike every day and it caught up with me. You know,
it definitely caught up with me. Uh, I literally hit the pavement. I was like so stressed out,
like I actually passed out on the way to school one morning. Yeah. 112th street. And that was the
first wake up call that like something's got to give. But to be perfectly honest, I mean, I was in
the army for eight years. I would say it took about eight years for me to fully like detox
out of that, out of that mindset. Yeah. And, you know, find some hobbies, some things that I can do
just for me. They have nothing to do with, you know, all this, all this insane war stuff.
You know, be a dad in a different sort of way, be present in a different sort of way.
And that took, that took a long time for me, honestly.
Yeah, man. Like finding meaning seems to be the one common denominator for people like veterans
when they get out of those, those highly, highly stressful situations overseas, like coming back
and like finding something that actually something to do that like is bigger than yourself, like
leave something behind, leave a legacy, like create something bigger than yourself.
And Warren as a soldier or a Marine in the military, I mean, when you're at war,
everything you do is so important. Exactly. It's so important. Like if you don't do it
the right way, someone could get killed. It could be you. It could be your friend.
The mission could fail. Everything has this immediacy to it, right? And then when you,
when you get into the civilian world, you know, it's obviously totally different.
And it's, it's much more laid back. And that creates this sort of like cultural
schism between, between the veteran in their own culture. And it takes, it takes some time
to reconcile that. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our
sponsor, Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed
I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on the show is
nutritional scientist and neuroscientist, Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this
stuff. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products
that hold a potential to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie
cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie cells infect
other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss, wrinkles,
arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging. What scientists have realized
is that we can manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and
replacing them with new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a powerful
blend of synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes like autophagy
and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation and natural
cardioprotective functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine, lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth
and proliferation, specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order. I linked it all below. Now back to the show.
You said you went to Syria, right, for a while. You went to Syria one time. A couple of times,
a couple of times, reporting on what exactly were you reporting on in Syria?
And then did you have to find somebody to go with you everywhere to translate and
what do they call it, a fixer or something? I have used fixers in the past for limited things,
like translation. So there's a whole insane story there, but the first time I went, I was smuggled
into northeastern Syria. Did a border crossing that may not have been strictly legal
and was hanging out with the Kurdish YPG and YPJ militia in Syria. That was just a
absolutely fascinating experience. And then the second time, I was invited to Damascus.
And so I was actually hanging out with the Syrian regime.
So for somebody who I don't know anything about the geography of that area, where is Damascus?
Damascus is like central, south-central Syria, I guess you could say. It's the capital city
of Syria. And then what were you doing there? What kind of situations did you find yourself
in? And what kind of people were you talking to? Yeah, it was an interesting moment in history
where the Assad government was attempting to institute this policy of new openness.
We're the good guys. We're going to let in all these Western journalists. They bust us in.
I got invited to this event. And they literally, it was like a couple of bus loads of journalists.
And we were busting for this conference in Damascus. And while we were in Damascus,
we had opportunities to go walk around the streets of Damascus. We had opportunities
to put in media requests to go and interview people. And that didn't go very well. But
I interviewed, I was there in an interview in the room with President Assad at one point.
It was a fascinating experience. I was actually thinking about this the other day,
about the conference itself, where it is the government, the regime is putting people in
front of you that they want you to hear their perspectives, right? That they're speaking at
this conference. And when I look back on it, what strikes me is that we were hearing from a Syrian,
an elite class of people in Damascus who are profoundly out of touch with their own country.
Yeah. When I think back to it, there's things that just make me chuckle. I remember the question
of the oppression of the Kurdish population in Syria came up at one point. And there was a Syrian
woman who was a speaker there. And she said, my last name sounds Kurdish. It sounds very Kurdish.
This has never been a problem. I've never been discriminated against. It was just completely
out of touch with the Kurdish people in Syria who could not own a passport, could not speak their
language, could not lawfully have a job. I mean, it's just insane, just total insanity.
Wow. Can you give some brief context to what the geographical situation was in Syria at that
point in time? And what year was that? And what was going on? What was ISIS doing at that point?
Oh, my God. So what year was this 2015 or 2016? I'd have to go back and look myself.
I mean, the situation was extremely complicated. ISIS was definitely in full force. The battle
for Aleppo was taking place around this timeframe or had just concluded.
You know, the Kurds and the YPG and YPJ and what eventually became SDF was active in
in the northeastern part of the country. You had a small American garrison in Altanif down in southern
Syria. But I mean, there was still like FSA, like notional, you know, Free Syrian Army,
al-Nusra was still all over the place. I mean, it is total chaos. I mean, there was still
areas outside Damascus that were controlled by militias. What was happening at that time frame
was that the regime was kind of like cutting deals with these different militias that control
different sectors, like come back into the fold and you'll get some sort of amnesty. So it was like
crazy civil war. Yeah, it was like the city is controlled by the government, but not really.
Like as I came to find out, like as you go into these different sectors,
actually a militia commander has more say over what happens than say the Ministry of Defense.
How confident were you? Like, I can imagine myself being in that situation. I would,
first of all, I wouldn't fucking go. Second, like second of all, if I was there,
I would be fucking terrified after watching videos of ISIS fucking saw heads off people
and journalists and then just like innocent people. Like how confident were you like from
your army being in the military and being deployed in combat? Like you were armed, obviously.
I was not armed on this trip. You were not armed. No, as a journalist, I was never armed to know.
So how scared were you or were you not scared like encountering ISIS?
On this trip, I was not scared of that at all because I mean, we were in a city that,
you know, especially the central part of Damascus is controlled by the government.
We were there at the government's invitation on a U.S. passport. So it was all very legit
and above board in that sense. We, yeah, yeah, no, I didn't have any real safety concerns. I mean,
there were still like motors landing in the city sometimes, but nothing too serious. The other,
the first trip I made to Syria was actually like pretty sketchy, especially getting in and out.
That's the one where you like cross the river or whatever. And you had to like,
you were in the car, you explained you were in the car. Some guy was driving and he,
what was he saying? He was saying, no Syria, no Syria or something.
That was on the way back. On the way back. So don't say you went to Syria.
We couldn't get across the border the way we came, taking a little inflatable raft across the river.
So instead, the plan that was concocted was that we would have to cross the border on foot.
And there are these huge dirt berms that are the demarcation line between Syria and Iraq that
must have been pressed up there with bulldozers because they're like 30 feet high. And in the
night scrambling over this dirt berm coming down on the other side and walking through the mud for
a few miles into a village. And there's a driver that meets on the other side, flashes his headlights
of his car. And now this poor guy who's been tasked to do this has to drive us through all these
checkpoints. And yeah, he's the one looking at us, no Syria, no Syria. I think that was the only
English he spoke. Now, when you're doing this stuff, do you have cameras and like you're taking
photos or taking video or are you just simply just like taking notes? I think during the actual
border crossing, I did take a few pictures and I did have a camera. Yeah. But I was more focused
on trying to not die at that particular moment than chronicling it. I've heard
descriptions from journalists that have been in like the middle, I think it was a vice journalist,
I forget, maybe it was a BBC journalist, but it was explaining like being in the middle of a
firefight over there and being like behind a berm with a video camera. And he's saying like he's so
lost in just getting the shot, getting that clip. I can see that. He just forgets about
bullets flying over his head, like forgets that he's like, if he stands up, he's dead because
he's so focused on getting this incredible fucking shot of these guys in a firefight.
Well, remember what we were saying about soldiers that it's a job, it's an occupation,
right? Being a videographer or video journalist, he has a job. He's doing his job and he's not
really thinking about all these other things that he probably should be thinking about.
Right. Right. It's just crazy to hear that. Like,
yeah, there was a group of journalists, they may have been BBC actually,
who got, they got trapped behind enemy lines in Missoul. Like they got, you know,
encircled by ISIS at one point. Yeah. That's some sketchy shit. What happened to them?
They were able to break through and get out. I can't remember the whole story,
I'm going to tell it wrong. I had nothing to do with it, of course. They may have done some air
strikes to help them get out, but they were able to escape. So when you started, you got back,
and you started doing this stuff, and you started, you started reporting on some of the things that
were happening. What, what was like, was there a big break for you? Like a big, a big breakthrough
you had in journalism? Were you like, you know, no, no, no big break. I mean, it was just sort of
consistent work, writing daily. Sometimes, you know, writing about things that are, you know,
maybe rather mundane, you know, these are changes to the military. This is what's happening. Some
of them are quite explosive stories. I've written about, I know all this covert ops stuff, but I
mean, I've also written about, you know, all this other stuff that affects soldiers, sexual assault,
domestic violence, suicides, murders, missing persons. I mean, I've covered all this stuff
at varying times. And they're, they're, they're tough stories, but yeah, no big break. You know,
at the time, so this news website I was a part of, I left there years ago, but we, it was a
special operations focused website. And in 2012, nothing like that existed. It was a different,
it was a different era. Now all these special ops guys are on Instagram posting deployment
pictures. They all have podcasts. Yeah, I mean, I do. Who am I to speak, right?
That's fascinating, man. I'm glad they all have podcasts. I agree with you. But the only point
I'm trying to make is that in 2012, things were different. No one was doing this yet. And so this
was like very controversial for the special ops community and for, for the military in general,
to a certain extent, like you're talking publicly about all these things, like you can't do that.
And now here we are fast forward 10 years. We're just in a different world and, you know,
a different generation. So it was definitely interesting. I mean, I would say for a time,
it was groundbreaking and it was a fun job until it wasn't. And I've since moved on to,
to other endeavors where I write for different outlets. Isn't it interesting how kind of like
guys like you and a lot of guys and I don't know how I'm a 35, how old are you? I'm 39. 39. So like
guys in our age bracket or even a little older, they're, they're coming out now. They have,
they're going on podcasts or talking about their stories or writing books are much more open.
But then you'll see a lot of older guys like Jim Lawler's age, he's an exception,
but a lot of like agency guys or military guys that they just don't want to talk about things.
Yes. The military guys, the special forces guys, and like on one hand, I really respect them.
I respect their professionalism that because when they were in decades ago,
like this stuff was super secret, it was classified. And so they're maintaining,
you know, like the sort of informal motto of special forces is, you know, the quiet professionals.
So I know, and I have the utmost respect for that. However, a lot of this stuff is no longer
secret. It's been declassified. It's not sensitive anymore. There's a lot of things,
even when, when something is classified, there's still ways you can talk about certain things
without getting too deep into the weeds, right? So it's, it is frustrating sometimes. I'll give
you an example. I went down to a Detachment A reunion, special forces Detachment A.
What does that mean Detachment A? They were, they were a specialized unit
stationed in Berlin during the Cold War. And these guys were, they did amazing stuff. They,
they wore civilian clothes. They spoke German. They lived off the local economy.
They built up their own cover identities. And their, their job was if the Soviet Union invaded,
they would go to ground, hide out in their safe houses. And when the Soviet lines passed over
them, they would activate and they would begin conducting acts of sabotage and espionage.
This is what you call sleeper cells, right? Right. And this is, this is the good stuff.
And so Detachment A existed from, geez, from the late fifties, I think, and I have to check
my own research until 1984. And then it became another unit called Pishy or P.S.S.E. That existed
until I think like 93 or something like this. And I apologize if my dates aren't quite up to
snuff. But the point I'm making is I went to this reunion to interview these guys. Now, now a lot of
this stuff is declassified. A lot of this stuff is declassified now. So I went to this reunion,
I was invited to come and interview these guys. And some of them, I got them on camera and they
were telling their whole story and it was amazing. There were some guys who were telling their story
and they were like, it feels so strange to talk about this because for like 35 years, I didn't
tell my like wife and kids about this. And here they are saying it on camera. And then there were
some guys, I put them on camera and they gave me the unit's cover story and nothing else.
They still were not willing to talk about it. And that's another thing as a journalist. I mean,
nobody owes me anything. Nobody owes me an interview. Nobody has to talk to me. I asked nicely.
And I hope that people trust me to tell the real story. And you build that trust and you have to
kind of build that up. And so I mean, I guess what I'm getting at is, yeah, I mean, people just do
that because they're nice and they're trying to do you a solid and you definitely have to understand
that some people don't want to talk. So that's a perfect lead in to this recent CIA story. I feel
like we could spend a whole hour talking about this recent story that you just released just like a
week ago, maybe two weeks ago, about the CIA espionage that's going on in Russia and Ukraine
right now. How did this story, how did this story come across your desk and how did you get interested
in this? And what made you want to record this? Yeah, no, that's a great question. So it first
came up on my radar, honestly, was just me watching the news and what was happening,
things that were in social media. And right as the invasion kicked off, the Russian invasion
of Ukraine kicked off what in February, almost immediately, there's this whole rash of like
mysterious fires. There were things blowing up in Russia. There was like an aerospace defense
building that burned to the ground. There was fuel depots going up in flames. There was like
ammunition depots. You saw all of these things that were, what I was looking at and what I
immediately recognized in my mind is there is a target selection criteria that is being worked
down. It's like straight out of like a special forces unconventional warfare manual. It's a
classic sabotage campaign. And you saw reports of these things happening. Yeah, it's openly,
openly in social media because people are like, oh, something's burning in Russia. Again, look at
this. Here goes train tracks got blown up today, fuel depot got blown up today, warehouse, housing,
Russian propaganda caught on fire today. And that happened so quickly. It was very clear to me
that this was done by people who had preplanned these targets. They had done a reconnaissance,
targeting reconnaissance ahead of time, that there were teams on the ground doing this.
And that this was an intelligence. There was a intelligence behind this organization pulling
the puppet strings. And I don't know who is doing that. I truly did not. But I could see that
there is something there, right? And I don't think it takes any genius to put two and two together.
And I certainly was not the only person that realized that. I think a lot of people,
they didn't know specifically, but a lot of people were like wink, wink, nod, nod. And as time went
on, even the Ukrainian government would give the wink, wink, nod, nod, like, man, they really got
to work on their, you know, be careful flicking out cigarettes in these military warehouses and
things like that, you know. So who was reporting on these fires or these explosions or these train
tracks blowing up? I think there was like a munitions warehouse that caught on fire. Like,
very little. I mean, it was mostly social media stuff, but there was one story in the Washington
Post, not about Russia, but in Belarus, again, just as the invasion was popping off rail line
sabotage. And the group that was behind that. And so that little arm of it was exposed.
But I could see all these things happening in Russia as well. And so I started asking questions.
And I started going to sources. And I really believed if we had anything to do with this,
if America had anything to do with this, this is one of those things that's like deeply classified.
I'm not going to hear about it for 20 years. But before long, I started having some conversations
that really shocked me that I was surprised by that you would that I started finding some answers.
And when you find when you're dealing in the world of covert operations, and when you finally
find the right people who know what you're asking about. And this thing that in your mind is this
huge story, but you talk to them. And again, it goes back to it's a job, it's an occupation, right?
And when you weigh this on them, they shrug their shoulders and say, Yeah, we did that.
Fuck of it. Like, they don't really think too much of, I mean, it's a big deal, but they don't
see it in the same context that an outsider sees it because they're doing their job.
Right. They're read into it. It's not surprising to them.
When you see reports like this, though, like reports of these things happening over there
in the US media and social media, do you are you like one of those people who goes to like
Russian media and looks at what the Russians are reporting?
Yes, a little bit. Because I needed to understand how what the Russian interpretation was of it
and what they were putting out in there in the Russian media. And they were they were writing
these things off pretty much as all accidental fires, you know? And what is like, where do you
go to find out like what the what the Russian? Well, I am not a Russian speaker or reader.
So I actually spoke to a woman named Olga Watman, who is and she she has a pretty deep
knowledge. Oh, yeah, you link to her in this article. I think I found her.
Yes, she's she's quoted in the article. So yeah, I need to talk to actual experts in
some areas to kind of plug these knowledge gaps. Yeah. Okay. So, right. So you see,
you're following up on these reports of these things that you think that you see and you say
instantly, yeah, this is textbook sabotage. Yeah. And what where do you go from there? Who do you
start talking to? How do you develop sources that actually have knowledge of these things going on?
Yeah, I mean, I can't really discuss anonymous sources, of course. I'll just say that this story
was difficult to report on. It was challenging. I worked on this from, you know, about April to,
you know, pretty, pretty much like when I published it and I published it on Christmas Eve.
So it took quite a long time. There's a whole journey. There's a whole backstory that this
article took with numerous publications. It was definitely an uphill battle. And this was probably
the most, I don't know. No, it's not the most difficult story I've reported on, but it was high
up there. So when you started reporting on it, at what point did you think like,
this is not something I'm going to publish myself? This is something that's bigger. This is
something that needs to be a part of a major publication. And like, how does that,
how does that communication start? Do you reach out to one of these big, one of these big
publications and say, hey, I'm working on this story and explain to me how that process works?
Yeah. When you, when, from my point of view, I mean, when you start getting multiple sources
confirming different aspects of the story and you're kind of double and triple sourcing facts,
it's like, or more, you know, I think there were six anonymous sources in this story.
That's when it's like, okay, we got something to work with here. Right. And I reached out to one
outlet, you know, editors there. This story was actually too big a lift for them. They had gone
through some editorial changes. I think they were, I think they were being truthful. This was
just too much for them to handle at the moment. So they passed me off to another outlet.
Really? Yes. Yeah. A bigger outlet, actually. And I had, I ran into some issues with them. They,
you know, I had this conversation with the editor there. And he said, you know, could you get me
like some proof? I'm like, what do you mean proof? What constitutes proof in your world?
And he says, well, can you have like one of your sources like take a picture of a PowerPoint slide
with his cell phone or like get some documents, like classified documents or something and bring
them out? Yeah. And I was like, okay, let me get this straight. You want me to task my sources
to break federal law? Yeah. So that's illegal for them to do. And I'm pretty sure it's illegal
for me to do as a journalist as well, if it's certainly unethical. And he was like, yes.
I was like, okay, here's what I need you to do. I want you to put that in writing. I want that in
a contract where you tell me to break federal law. And you should have seen how fast they backpedaled
at that point. That was hilarious. And like, yeah, you know, anything about breaking the law,
I probably don't want to put that on paper. Like, yeah, yeah, man. But the thing, the problem is,
if they had told a younger, less experienced journalist to do that, they may have done it.
And then you would very quickly end up in this sort of like a reality winner situation, you know,
where they figured out who she was in two seconds. And, you know, she did prison time. I'm not playing
that game. So I then went, it seems like a messy game to play. But do they, there's reports like
this, not exactly like this, but I mean, there's similar like intelligence reports that come out
of these big publications all the time. How do they deal with sources and those in these typical
situations? Are they always getting proof? No, absolutely not. Absolutely not. In this day and
age, it's very rare that somebody is going to leak, you know, a top secret, you know, TSSCI
document to you. There are keystroke augers on the classified terminals. I mean, there's all
sorts of reasons why it's completely idiotic to do that. And quite frankly, I don't want those
documents, guys. Don't send anything that says top secret on it. I honestly am not interested in
that. And I don't need that to do my job. So no, like at any like mainstream publication,
like no, they're not getting documents to back up their stories on this sort of stuff. No.
And without giving up your sources, how do you maintain relationships with
these high level sources that have to remain anonymous for good reasons? How do you sort of
like manage relationships with people like that? Like what are their like, especially if they're
intelligence folks? Like how do you sort of navigate their intentions? And how do you know
that they're not trying to get one over on you and trying to manipulate you? Yeah, that's very
important. I think one of the things I have going for me, I'll maybe I'll spill a little bit of tea
here. In my work in general, I tend to speak more to middle management. I don't normally speak to
political, you know, mucky mucks in Washington, DC. That's not really my venue or my interest.
I would much, much more trust a sergeant in the army, or a, you know, like, retired CIA case
officer, just a normal dude, when they tell you something, they're telling you because like,
they're either like, they're proud of like an op they pulled off, or they're pissed off about an
op that went wrong. Like they're telling you that kind of for more genuine reasons. But when you get
up to that like DC level, there's always some sort of political agenda. There's some sort of reason
why they're leaking this information to reporters. So I'll say that's one aspect of it. But another
aspect is that's why you need to use multiple sources and confirm things. And there were some
sources that were on the record, though, correct? There are a few sources who are on the record
offering context to the story. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Let's go back to the you're dealing with this
major publication, and they're asking you for this source, you asked them for, they're asking
you to, to ask you asking them and give it put it to me in writing. So you can ask me to break
the law in writing. And how far does it evolve past that? Does the conversation stop there?
Or where does it go? It kind of stopped there. And I went to yet another publication, a pretty
large, well known publication. And I had a, it was, it was a ride there. I, I, you know, this,
this article, my story went through a vigorous fact checking process at that publication.
It passed through that fact checking process. We were good to go, we had a publication plan,
we were going to contact the CIA for comment, give them 48 hours to respond. And then 48 hours
after that, we're going to publish. Okay. So we had a plan, like this is, this is like 11th hour
type shit, right? Like you're, this is not standard. This is not typically how it works.
No, this, this is, this is not atypical. But now, now we're, we're like in the red zone here,
right? We're like, we're close to hitting that publish button. So we go to the CIA for comment.
They're on the record comment, which should be said, you know, here on the, on the record is,
they deny every, all of this. They say the United States, yeah, the CIA has nothing to do with
these sabotage operations. It's a, it's a flat denial, which they are entitled and, and actually
committed to denying title 50 covert operations. That's completely lawful for them to
lie to anyone about a covert operation. It's not, it's not illegal or unethical for them to do that.
Um, okay, got it. But now the deputy director of the CIA wants to have a conversation with us,
with me and the editor in chief of the publication.
Who is the deputy director of the CIA?
David Cohen. David Cohen. Okay.
And I, I told them, I said, look, I can talk anytime today, except at like,
whatever it was two o'clock or two 50, I have to pick up my kid at school.
When did that call take place? Exactly when I was picking up my daughter at school.
Uh, wow. Now, now, now David Cohen had an off the record agreement with the editor of the
publication, but he had no off the record agreement with me. I never spoke with him.
So I will go ahead, right out and tell you, David Cohen blamed the Ukrainians.
They said, he said, these are rogue Ukrainian operations
that the Ukrainians have gone rogue and we can't control them.
That's what he said to the editor and off the record comments that he made to that editor.
So now the editor's coming to me and saying that we need to square the circle,
meaning we need to make the CIA's off the record comments, jive with this story.
Wow. And then he's going into my article and he basically scrubbed, he scrubbed every aspect of
the CIA out of this story. He wanted to make it about Ukrainian ops, which that the story is
not about Ukrainian ops. That's not what it is. Couldn't he just have taken what the CIA guy said
and just added it to, as a context to the article? We could have added additional context, but the
deputy director's comments were off the record. They were off the record. They could not,
as far as talking to that editor, like I said, I don't have an off the record agreement with
anybody at the agency. So we got, now we're into this sort of revisionism that we're trying
to make this story match the deputy director's narrative. And I mean, the reason why, I mean,
I don't want to speculate. Yeah, I'm not going to speculate. I'm just going to say that's what
happened. And you can draw your own conclusions from that. And now we're also dragging our
feet. Our publication plan is kind of broken. We're trying to square the circle. Five days go by,
five or six days. And a story miraculously appears in the New York Times, blaming all the sabotage
operations on rogue Ukrainian elements, quoting anonymous intelligence officials. Gee, I wonder
who that was. Who could that have been? Wow. Yeah. Yeah. And interestingly about that New York Times
stories, there is a lot in there about the Dugena assassination, Alexander Dugan's daughter, who
was assassinated in a car bomb. Oh, yeah. And a lot of trying to pad around that. It's not us.
It's not America. It's not CIA. It's these other, these rogue elements. And that was interesting
because my article has nothing about Dugena. And my line of questioning that I submitted to the CIA
has nothing about Dugena. They just felt necessary to get ahead of that story and put it out there
upfront that we have nothing to do with it. Like, again, I'm not going to speculate. You just draw
your own conclusions by what may have been happening there. I mean, isn't it so, I mean,
isn't there telltale signs when you see all these former Pentagon officials and CIA officials getting
like salaries at these big TV channels like MSNBC and CNN? They're like paid correspondents now to
come in and comment on whatever's happening. You know, it's one thing for a former government
official. I mean, I understand what you're saying. It can be a revolving door. But I think it's one
thing for a former government official to find a job in the media offering like commentary,
you know, political commentary, contextual commentary on national security issues.
But it's another thing for a serving high ranking intelligence official to give him the ability
to edit a fact checked piece of journalism with off the record comments. It's like, hey,
hold on a second. If you want, if that's you, the story you're going with, then I'm going to need
that on the record. And we'll put that in the story. We'll put such and such said this about
rogue ops. Right. And that's their side of it. But to make off the record comments, it's just,
I mean, look, and I want to also be clear something about the ethics of espionage.
I am not saying that the deputy director is a bad man. I've been told he's actually a good person
that he's very charming. I'm not saying he's unethical. I'm not saying it wouldn't even be
fair to call him a liar. I think that's the wrong that would be the wrong thing to say.
He is upholding his professional and lawful obligation to keep covert ops off the front
page of the paper. And I totally understand that the game is the game. And he played it well,
and was effective at it. But the problem I do have is with journalists who are unable to fulfill
the premise of their job, that they're more worried about the politics, that they just want
to publish authorized leaks, right, that come from those official sources, the official leaks,
right? Rather than this type of journalism, that's more, you know, it's kind of out there hanging
gangster journalism that's, you know, comes from a totally different source.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it just goes to show you how much sway that these agencies,
the government has over the biggest publications that exist in America. If this guy, if this editor
was literally trying to change the whole story, according to this guy's off the record comments.
I agree. Yeah. I mean, it's becoming more and more clear to us that things like this are happening.
These relationships have always existed. And there are a series of norms, I think, that exist
between, you know, journalism in the intelligence community. And, you know, I get it to a large
extent. And there are things like as a journalist that I would not do. Like I said, I don't want
to publish classified documents. I don't want to out covered personnel, you know, people who live
under an alias. I don't want to run the names of CIA assets, like that very sensitive stuff. I do
care about national security. But again, there are ways to report stories like in this story,
I talk about the United States and the CIA. But we are working by with and through a liaison
partner to do these sabotage operations. That's one of the interesting things about this.
I did not name that partner, because I think it's just too sensitive right now.
So there are a system of norms. But sometimes these journalists and these editors, you know,
they want to publish stories, they do want to break news. All right. It's difficult to explain
this to people because they, I think the public tends to pull into one or two extremes of, you
know, the media is totally compromised, or the media's rogue off the rails. It's actually much
more, I think it's a more complicated dynamic. And I think there are editors, they want to break
news. But within a certain a narrow scope of left and right limits, they don't want to challenge
the prevailing narrative too much. They don't want to be too disruptive. Right. They want to stay
within the those left and right limits, those norms. And when you start talking about unauthorized
leaks and things that are going to piss off some of their contacts in the intelligence community,
they fear that that spigot could get turned off. And they're not going to get the controlled leaks
anymore. And, you know, I might piss people off saying this, but one of the things I'm most proud
of is that I've never been a press corps person. I've never been a Pentagon press corps guy.
I've never been a White House press corps guy. I've always been off on my own doing my own thing.
I live in Brooklyn, New York. I'm not in Washington, D.C. I don't give a shit about
getting invited to dinner parties in D.C. I was never being invited to them to begin with. So
I literally don't care if people in that town like me or not.
Which is way cooler. And which is why your work is so much more fascinating, some of the mainstream
stuff that we see and so much more. It's so unique. Like I told you in the car on the way here,
reading this article, it was like watching a fucking movie. You're talking about people that
are sleeper cells that are living here that like that have been there for up to what over a decade
maybe that were possibly possibly up to a decade or more. And then they have buried caches of
munitions that they can go find and pick up to to carry out these operations that that is some
shit that's out of a movie, man. It's fucking crazy. It's it's a tightly wound and effective
operation. And I think I think it demonstrates a few things. Perhaps it demonstrates a renewed
central intelligence agency, one that is dealing with a threat that it knows how to counter and
has prepared for for 75 years. It also reveals the I in my opinion, the strength of our alliances
and our overseas alliances and how important they are. With this particular partner, a very tight
it really is a very tight partnership that we have with them. But also other European allies.
And we've seen that in the this conflict in Ukraine that it's sort of like we're all fighting
in the same direction for the first time in a long time. What was your first reaction to when
this war in Ukraine between Ukraine and Russia broke out? Like what was your initial reaction?
I mean, I know what the mainstream narrative was, but what was your like initial reaction?
My initial reaction was surprised. I didn't think Putin was stupid enough to do this.
I lost a bet with a good friend of mine. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, we're betting on on whether
I mean, that sounds a little crass to bet a bottle of whiskey over over a conflict, but we're,
you know, it's over the political action of it. And I was like, come on, dude, Putin's not dumb
enough to do that. He wouldn't do that. I was wrong. I was totally wrong. You know, we've seen
what's happened since then. And then why was he dumb to do that? Because he thrust himself
into a quagmire that he was not prepared for. And now it has turned into a full blown disaster
for Russia that I don't know if they'll ever be able to emerge. I mean, they're being knocked
decades back backwards in time right now. Their economy is not going to recover from this.
Before the the invasion happened, obviously, there was all this reporting of all of the American
arms and weapons that was being deployed onto the Ukrainian border, the billions of dollars
of things. And it was almost like it was almost like we were. We've been arming and equipping
them since 2014. I mean, there's a pretty substantial effort going on. Right. But I'm
saying like the specific the specific time where they were gearing up to invade, how like we were
also like ramping up on the Ukrainian side as well. And on top of that, we were reporting on it like
crazy, almost as if like, Hey, Russia, we fucking dare you. Yeah. I mean, what was happening is that
there was an astounding series of, you know, again, the not I shouldn't say weeks. I mean,
there were like official statements being made by by government officials, like the invasions
coming in two days, you know, the invasions coming in. And what they were doing was they were trying
to sabotage Putin, that we clearly had very strong intelligence about his intentions and what he was
up to. And I think how we knew that it's going to be a fascinating story in the future.
But I mean, one of the criticisms I've heard from some people within the intelligence community is
we have this huge intelligence apparatus, but we don't do anything with the intelligence, we just
kind of sit on it and watch. And that's what an intelligence service does. Not everything needs
to lead to paramilitary action, right? So but some people get frustrated with that. But this was a
really interesting situation where we declassified intelligence and we used it politically and
diplomatically to warn our allies and to scare our adversaries and to kind of, as one person
described it to be kind of like taking those arrows out of Putin's quiver before he was able to fire
them. So he was not able to launch any sort of surprise attack. Everyone knew it was coming by
the time it happened. Right, right. These sabotage attacks are still happening. And so my question
was, going back to the sabotage, why is it that the U.S. is doing it like through another country?
Plausible deniability. Plausible deniability. Yeah. So they're just basically like staying
on, they're staying out of it, but they're sort of like giving them the map and giving them like
the orders and tactically, strategically telling them what to do and helping them accomplish
their missions. Right. We're working through a liaison partner. So agency resources, tactical
planning, intelligence, going to that partner, the partner who is training these civilian groups
who are then going and working as sabotage cells inside Russia. So we're working through a partner.
And it maintains plausible deniability. And the partner and to clarify in the article,
you say it's a NATO ally. Correct. Does that mean it's a NATO country?
A NATO country, yes. Got it. And the other thing you have to consider is, let's say the CIA was
to do this directly. The CIA has difficulty operating in Russia. We consider Russia to be
denied territory. Our spies who work out of the embassy in Moscow are under like, I mean,
everyone in the embassy is really under surveillance. Like pretty harassing surveillance,
pretty heavy surveillance. We have a difficult time working in Russia. So that territory is denied
to the United States, but is it denied to all of our partners who may have an easier time working
there? So this is another reason why we would work through a partner force.
Why is the US in Russia, why don't they try to maintain some sort of civility and work together
in the world? Profound difference in national interests, history, culture, geography.
What do you mean exactly when you say that? Well, they see, they're near abroad being post-Soviet
space, the stands, the Baltics, these former Warsaw Pact countries, they see that as being in
their sphere of influence. And they'd like to develop that as a buffer between them and NATO.
But they've lost that. They see NATO, not incursion, but NATO encirclement.
Even talk about Georgia, the country of Georgia joining NATO. There's been conversations about
that. And so this Russia, because of its history, World War II standing out in our minds,
they have a history and a fear of invasions coming from their western flank
and are driven by a sort of paranoia in a lot of ways.
Wasn't that justified that we're encircling them with NATO and they're basically surrounded?
Because we have all those missile, all those launch pads from NATO all around them.
From their perspective, certainly, it's a real military concern that they have.
And even though the notion of a NATO invasion sounds completely ridiculous,
an invasion of Russia sounds completely ridiculous to me, or to I think anyone,
any national security professional, that's not even a possibility. We're not going to
invade a nuclear power, right? But if you're a Russian general, you have to take the possibility
seriously and plan for that contingency. Yeah, and I am not a Russian expert by any means.
But I mean, I think we're just, we're coming from two different places.
Our history, our culture, our geography is very different. Our concerns are very different.
I had one person tell me that, you know, even if you ordered the CIA and the FSB to cooperate
with one another, that these guys have spent too much time mean mugging each other in cafes
in Rome and New Delhi for decades, that they won't work together. That's just a cultural
clash in between these intelligence services. And we tried, we tried to work with them
after 9-11 on counterterrorism endeavors. And it didn't really go anywhere. They weren't
sharing information with us. I mean, I'm sure there's more to this story than just that,
but that cooperation didn't really work out. Yeah, it's like, what would we do, though,
if they put missiles in Mexico and in Canada, you know, like Russia goes, of course we'll never
invade. Yeah, we would freak out and bomb the hell out of them. So yeah, I mean, I certainly
understand Russia's consternation, but let's also consider Russia's own belligerence
and their invasion of Georgia in 2008, their invasion of Ukraine in 2014. They're engaging
this sort of aggressive territory expansion, you know, eastward into Ukraine and into Europe.
And Europe has played this game before, right? They've been there before. And one of the things
we learned from the past is you can't appease a dictator. Yeah, do you think, like speaking about
these sleeper cells that are in Russia, whether they're from the US or from whatever NATO country,
do you think how many of these sleeper cells are currently in the US that are from Russia or from
them? That's a good question. People have asked me that before. And I think that this comes up in
a number of regards. For a long time, there were fears about Hezbollah sleeper cells in America
and like how we can't do anything too provocative against Iran because these sleeper cells will
activate and conduct acts of terrorism in America. Well, you know, we assassinated Qasem Soleimani,
leader of Quds Force in Baghdad a few years ago. Where were these Hezbollah sleeper cells?
Nowhere. Now, here we are. We're fighting this proxy war with Russia. And the Russians know
that they're being hit. They know that there is an intelligence agency hitting them on their home
turf. If there are Russian sleeper cells here, my question is what are they waiting for?
Right. So I think that we can sometimes overestimate our enemy's capabilities
and project all sorts of things into them. At this point, I really think we have to call
into question, you know, the last 70 years of Russia analysis that we've done, that we have
built up Russia into a boogeyman that maybe they never would they were to begin with. You know,
I did an interview with Milt Bearden, who ran the agency's covert program in Afghanistan,
the first time in the 80s, the Stinger program. And he said the most pushback he ever got from
cable traffic he sent back to Langley was when he was writing about how the Russian military was
underperforming in Afghanistan in the 80s. He said the vehement anger that came from some of the
analysts that he misread the situation didn't understand the Russian army because they were
so committed to this idea of the Russian bear. And it was inconceivable that their military was,
you know, not performing. And now we've seen this in Ukraine, where this military we built up in
our own minds, these these ideas of, you know, artillery barrages and human wave attacks and,
you know, like, you know, the sort of like wholesale destruction, I guess that we saw in
Grosny in Chechnya. We've sort of built that up, built up in an enemy of our own imagination.
Although, I mean, I don't mean to minimize it either, there is a real national security threat,
there's a real national security threat from China as well. But again, I think we have to
couch some of our assumptions about how the Chinese military would perform, let's say,
if they were to invade Taiwan. I mean, the Chinese military, and when was the last time they did a
large scale amphibious landing operation? When was the last time they did an air assault operation?
Like, their military has basically no combat experience. Like, when was the last time they
did any of that? So these capabilities don't come out of nowhere. The American military's
capabilities came out of a lot of failures, honestly. Like, we screwed up a lot. And,
you know, we had to fix ourselves afterwards. So I do think we should take these these sorts
of threats seriously. But at the same time, there is an institutional and a even a career
incentive to exaggerate the threat. And the American public really doesn't respond to anything,
unless it's an emergency. Like, we're so desensitized that like, it really has to be in American's
faces. Yeah, like 9 11, you know, or like the way we talk about climate change, like climate
apocalypse right now, something's not done right now, we're all going to die. Like, everything is
has this immediacy, this this this emergency. And it's like nothing less than that gets the
attention of American citizens. Right, right. Yeah, we live in a society like that, man,
everything is like that. You know, and it goes to, again, like, comparing Russia to the United
States, just like while we're on this topic, we were talking briefly, I was mentioning to you
briefly about like the Oliver Stone Putin interviews where he's he's having that discussion
with Putin, it's a, I think he spent like over 36 hours with him talking, and it was edited down
into a four hour documentary, four episodes, one hour each. And again, he's covering all these
topics with Putin, you can say whatever you want about Oliver Stone, like he's anti American,
he's pro dictator. But he does have a very open conversation discussion with Putin, and he challenges
him on a lot of things. And Oliver claims that Putin did not even get to see the edit before
it was published. I don't know if that's true or not, but that's what he said. And again, he challenges
him on all these on all these topics. And Putin is able to have a free flowing, deep conversation
about these things, you can tell he's thought about this stuff. And he's he's making judgments that
he thinks is best that he thinks is best for his country. And he's he it seems like I mean,
obviously, you know, then he's a bad guy, he's on lots of bad things, I'm not saying that Putin's
a good guy, I'm just saying that it's very valuable to be able to have those kind of conversations
and see where that guy's minds at. Some people will say that it's all bullshit. It's just like
everything he said was a lie. He fabricated all that to make him look good, to make Russia look good.
But it was very fucking convincing. Yeah, I haven't heard an American president say
something that was that convincing in a long time. Yeah, I mean, look, Putin would not be
in that position as long as he has been, if he was stupid, right? I can absolutely believe that
he's a very smart man. You know, made a strategic era in Ukraine, the Russian military revealed
itself to be rather incompetent. Yeah, I think it would be wrong to underestimate Putin. I mean,
he's basically installed himself as president for life. He's an entrenched bureaucrat. He's
created a political system around him that keeps him in power. Yeah, a stupid person doesn't have
that sort of resiliency. And compared to America, the look at our presidents that they spend usually
four years and how much of that time is spent just on the election cycle to win the next election
two out of four years, like how do you get anything done? Shouldn't the American, I've
been thinking about like, shouldn't the American presidency be 10 years? Would that be better?
Would I don't know the answer to that? But yeah, this democracy thing, it's kind of
or if you like the term limits, like why not if the people want to vote these people in and keep
this guy keep these person president, like, how would that be a bad thing? I don't know.
It's just got me thinking listening to all this. Yeah, I mean, I know I get it. I mean,
our system has a lot of drawbacks and it's kind of a shit show. But I do think it's better than
having president for life. And you know, a lot of these other systems have led to so many excesses
and abuses. And I prefer the messy American style to some of the other systems that I've seen out
there. What do you think a full scale war would look like between the US and Russia?
It's hard to imagine that without a nuclear exchange. And then the question is, will it be
a limited nuclear exchange or a full blown, you know, ICBM strategic nuclear weapons exchange,
the end of the world type stuff? Yeah, I mean, two nuclear powers going to war,
we have very little data on that. Pakistan and India have done it on a few occasions 1999,
cargo conflict. They went they fought a conventional war on the cashmere line,
without without any sort of nuclear exchange. Now we're seeing, you know, some new norms maybe
being established or tested in Ukraine, where, you know, the Ukrainians as a proxy for, you know,
NATO, as some people see them, are fighting back against Russia retaking territory. And it hasn't
escalated to WMDs, right? The Russians have not pulled that that because they know how dire the
repercussions would be. And no, I don't think anyone wants to go there. That's what, you know,
in that film I was telling you about with Oliver Stone, he asked him what that would
look like. It's in the same question. He said Putin said nobody would win. He said it would
be the end of the world. Yeah. And I don't think the Russians want that. I don't think Vladimir
Putin wants that. And neither does any single NATO nation decide that either. So it's interesting how
you know, there's always this, as I talked to an analyst named Michael Kaufman for this article,
and he speaks to how there's this fear that nations will stumble into war, that it'll happen
accidentally, that one side makes a move that's misinterpreted, or one side crosses a red line
without knowing it, or an accident happens, and it triggers, you know, World War Three,
that there's a fear of that. But he points out that this isn't really the way nation states think,
that they look at an incident as it happens, and decide how they want to respond to it,
and if the ROI, it works out for them or not. They may choose to ignore certain operations,
and pretend they're just accidental fires, because they don't want that particular subject to go
any further. And it's more convenient, a politically expedient, to just ignore it for now.
You don't think that this has anything to do with that Nord Stream explosion?
Well, obviously, we're taught it's all speculation, but.
I mean, these things may be interconnected. The true answer to be transparent, I don't know.
I don't know what happened to the Nord Stream pipeline. I have heard theories from sources
speculating that the Russians did this either with saturation divers or with unmanned vehicles.
I have talked to, explain them what a saturation diver is.
Oh, just divers coming off a submarine, breathing off of mixed gas, like deep-sea diving.
And I've talked to other people who say, no, that we would not hit a target like this at this time,
because of how sensitive it is. It's partly owned by Germany, another NATO ally.
So, they're saying, no, we would not hit this target.
Did the Russians blow it up? I don't know the answer to that. I think more to follow on that.
I want to go into the saturation diving again. We were talking briefly about this. You said
there's a guy here who was a saturation diver somewhere in Florida. How do we get this topic
got brought up before we started the podcast? Oh, well, I mean, geez, down in Panama City,
is the Navy's Experimental Dive Unit, where they do all sorts of cool things and develop new gear
and test new things. Oh, really? That's in Panama City. I had no idea. Yeah, Panama City is kind
of a center for some of that stuff. Some spooky goings on down there, you might say, with some
other things happening down there. Tell me more, tell me more. Yeah. Well, I did this story years
ago. It was about a CIA operation that went wrong in the, not quite the South China Sea,
it's in north of Luzon, in the Philippines. And it was an operation where some CIA paramilitary guys,
they're called, it's called maritime branch. And there's, you know, the three components are
air branch, ground branch, and maritime branch. So these guys have, you know,
these are the three different paramilitary components. And there's also like the covert
influence group that guys who do like propaganda. So Marbranch has four guys on a small boat,
and they're to go out there, they're under like a civilian cover. And they're going to go on one
of these like atolls out there, that, you know, where it's like some rocks that are visible at
a low tide. They're going to send some a couple divers out with this pod. It's disguised to look
like a rock, but it's packed with like sensitive electronics, like classified electronics. And
they're going to put the pod in the in the rocky, you know, atoll. And it's going to monitor Chinese
military traffic in the area coming through the area. What happens is as they're heading out to
complete their mission, a hurricane starts sweeping through through the through the Pacific.
They have to make a decision. Do we continue with the mission? Because the hurricane was
supposed to like veer north and miss their area of operations. So they decide, yeah,
we're going to go ahead with the operation. Well, the hurricane did not veer. It barreled
straight towards them. And by that point, there was nothing they could do to avoid it. They
could go north, south, east, west. It didn't matter. They'd get hit full bore with the hurricane.
And I guess they were wedged between the hurricane and what like mainland China.
They were out in the middle of nowhere really. Oh, okay. Yeah. Like a like a 30 foot boat.
And there was the there was a beacon on that on that boat that the agency was monitoring and it
flashed out in the middle of the hurricane. No trace of those four maritime branch guys
or the boat itself were ever found, not not a floating life preserver, nothing, absolutely
nothing was ever found. You know, those four guys who died. You know, there's a younger guy named
Michael Perrick, who was a graduate of the Merchant Marine Academy. There was a retired
EOD Navy diver named Steven Stanek. There was another, you know, navy guy, part of like a
Marine Union, Daniel Meeks. And then the there's a mechanic on board also. And geez, I'm sorry,
his name escapes me right now. It's definitely in the article I wrote. But those four guys
perished, you know, and they they got stars on the wall at CIA headquarters. Now, typically,
operations like this where things go wrong, and people don't come back, those things typically
aren't reported on, right? Because people don't even know that they're doing what they're doing.
And it was one of the eeriest stories I ever reported on, because for a long time,
I'm looking at this. It was so eerie, because as time went on, I was able to it was really
difficult, but I dug up all four of the names. And I got death certificates. And I could tell
these were human beings, they actually lived and they died. But beyond these death certificates,
it's like, it's like they just vanished off the face of the earth. And nobody said anything about it.
And I think that's part of the reality of, you know, or, you know, I think I called them in the
article Secret Sailors. These are covert operators, if you will. And that even in death, their life
and death remains a secret. Oh, my God. Yeah, it's coming back to me now. I think, is this the
story where these guys had their identities traced back to like a building or a fake business?
Yes. That was placed in the panhandle? Yes.
That makes sense now. So yeah, so what else is going on in the panhandle with these
diving teams and these, is this maritime branch still a thing?
Maritime branch definitely exists. Yeah, they have, you know, civilian charter,
civilian vessels that they operate and they can do different things to get people
in and out of certain places in certain situations or do different types of missions.
And yeah, I mean, down there on the panhandle, there's a big presence of spooky stuff,
you know, both intelligence community and Navy. Really? Yeah, yeah, yeah. What's spooky about it?
It's just covert op stuff. Ivory Bells was the program to tap into undersea cables that there's
components of that program run out of there. Yeah, it's interesting stuff.
What kind, are they utilizing any sort of like
unknown or classified like technology to, you were mentioning that these guys are diving like
a thousand feet underwater? Well, those are like experiments that are conducted, right, to see
the Navy does these like kind of like NASA type experiments, except underwater with divers.
See, like how deep can they go? How much bottom time can we get them once they're down there
and experimenting with different types of mixed gas? And yeah, that one guy who was telling me
he was under like a thousand feet of water. And because the oxygen in that tank gets compressed
more and more the deeper you go, he said that when he was down there at the bottom,
it was like he was trying to suck maple syrup through his regulator, breathing in that oxygen gas.
So yeah, these guys, I mean, they can be deployed off of submarines, or they can be deployed off boats
and you know, there's all sorts of different different ways you can get these guys there.
But you know, we're talking about, they can be deployed off of a submarine. Yeah, yeah,
they can lock out of a submarine. Wow, I didn't know that. Yeah, the SEALs do that too for a
different mission, different type of mission, the SEAL delivery vehicle, and they can go ashore and
conduct reconnaissance and things like that. Yeah, yeah. But then the Navy divers, they conduct,
you know, undersea espionage, that's a thing. And one of those things is tapping fiber optic
undersea cables. And I mean, everyone taps fiber, America, Russia, France, Israel,
UK, I mean, we're all tapping fiber. We're all tapping each other and we all know it.
Well, there's even a term for some of that. If you've ever heard of fourth party collection.
No, a fourth party collection is when you go into, you know, you're exploring around trying
to find a place to exploit the adversary's communications. So let's let's say, let's
let's stick with this example. We send some divers underwater to go tap an undersea fiber
optic cable. So they go down there with all their equipment, they're ready to tap into it.
And they get there and it's like, Oh, shit, there's already a tap on it. But it's not ours. It's,
let's say, let's say for this example, it's, it's Russian. Let's say it's the Russians
tapping a French owned fiber optic cable. Now, what we can do is fourth party collection would be
we tap into the tap. And so we now we we're collecting everything that's going through
the fiber optic cable. But we also know all of the information that the Russians are getting,
because we're tapped into their tap. Right. So it's sort of like this like omnipresent sort of
intelligence collection method that you get to know what everybody the information that everybody's
getting. And yeah, that's the thing. That's scary, man. That's that's wild. In the old days, it was
done with induction cables. And I did an interview with Jim Olson, who's CIA officer. And this guy
went down a manhole cover in Moscow and tapped into fiber optic communication cables with like
calipers, like induction cables. Yeah, really? Yeah, it's interesting stuff. You've talked to
so many different CIA people. Like you've talked to you've talked to what it's been dozens of CIA,
DIA spies, people that were sleeper cells. Like what? What what is it about these people that
is so fascinating to us? You know, I people find different things in them. Like we make movies
about these people. They they're they're the most viewed stories on the internet on YouTube,
everywhere you go. It's just there's something about it that that makes us just so infatuated
with these stories. I just have a a enduring fascination with special operations and covert
operations. And I just find that stuff fascinating. I want to know how do I I want to know everything
about it. I want to know, you know, every time someone brings up secret operations, you say,
clicking my pen, like, like, I get excited. I love that stuff, you know, and, um,
you know, I, I would do my job for free if I could. I have to pay rent and I have to buy food
like a normal person. But I mean, I love it. I love I love reporting on it. I love talking to
these people. I love interviewing them. I love writing these stories. Do you get any
shit from people for talking about that stuff? Hell yeah. Hell yeah. Absolutely. What kind of
what kind of pushback or what kind of bullshit do you get from people who get pissed off about
you reporting on this different varieties of shit. There are people within the special
ops community who hate my guts. I mean, we're down here in Tampa, uh, you know,
special operations command and Mcdill. I mean, I think they have my picture on a dartboard down
there. Uh, I'm not, uh, yeah, I'm not loved and respected by, uh, the entire special operations
community because I tell them, you know, truths that they don't want to hear a lot of times and
sometimes expose, uh, you know, some dirty things that are happening in their units,
that they would rather not have out there publicly, um, you know, for career reasons.
Um, you know, the intelligence community handles journalists a lot smarter than,
you know, at special ops, I feel like those guys are running around with their hair on fire,
scared to death of negative press like every day. Like they just, they just, they've never
learned how to handle it, right? They're, they're like, their skin is so paper thin that the smallest
thing just sends them off into a tirade. Um, not everybody, but I just noticed that with some
of the leadership that there's very, very sensitive and they don't know how to engage with the media.
The intelligence community, they're, they're more like slick. They're more like GQ.
They have like professional comms, people that work for them and handle, you know,
people like me sticking their nose places. Um, so yeah, I would say that, yeah, they handle
things a lot better. Um, but yeah, I mean, I catch all sorts of varieties of shit, um, from
people within, um, also people without, um, at a certain point, I just kind of ignore it. You
know, one day people are saying I'm a paid CIA shill. The next day people are saying I'm a paid
FSB shill. I mean, it's like, they can't, these weirdos can't even keep their stories straight.
It's, so I end up just ignoring all of it. I mean, I, I, I trust in my sourcing and my reporting.
If my stories have, you know, integrity, if they're telling the truth,
then I'm just going to go with that. And I, what I, the, the metaphor I use is like when,
when people hear an uncomfortable truth that they don't necessarily want to hear,
they go through a phases of denial that it's really like the stages of grief when, when a
loved one dies, they go through these five stages and the first phase is denial. No, this isn't
happening. They go through like the bargaining phase where they're like, well, part of Jack's
story is right, but some of it isn't, you know, take it with a grain of salt, guys. And then
eventually they get to acceptance and it takes some time to get there. I mean, this story here
that we've been talking about, this story is going to take some time for people to digest
into process. And, uh, it's not going to happen overnight.
Does it, what kind of, what kind of pushback have you had on this story?
Are people, I assume people would say, you know, you're compromising national security,
you're so you're compromising CIA operations that are going to,
from the, from the intelligence community, the response has been a deafening silence,
just nothing, nothing at all. From the public, a tremendous public interest in this story,
a lot of people reading it and enjoyed reading it and thought it was informative and helpful.
Um, some people, I noticed ideological people, um, they, they see the world through that
ideological lens and they tend to get upset with some of my reporting because it doesn't
match their, you know, worldview, uh, whether it comes, whatever, whatever that worldview is,
you know, I've had, you know, the, the alt-right people mad at me. Sometimes I've had the far
fringe left mad at me other times. Again, I just ignore that stuff because it's like,
they need to go talk to a therapist about that stuff. It's not my drama, right?
Um, but I mean, the response has been good. Um, the only, like, I haven't really had any pushback.
I mean, they're- What about from like people, like your colleagues in the military? You ever
have people, like people that you have a relationship with, come out, you and be like, Jack, what the
fuck? Yes. Yeah, absolutely. That has to be difficult. I've had followings out with friends,
for sure. Um, I've had people come to me, sometimes they'll even try to like be manipulative, like,
you know, we served together back in the day, Jack, you should change that headline. That shouldn't
say that. It's just kind of gross and it makes you feel like, were we ever really friends? If you
see it as like something transactional like this, you feel you can hit me up 10 years later
and try to get me to change my story. Like, what, what is this? Um, things like that. But yeah,
no, there, there are definitely, there are teammates, former teammates of mine who don't agree with
everything I do. And we're still friends. And that's fine. I mean, they, they, they're their own
person and they make their own decisions and I respect their decisions and, you know, their
views. And I'm, I'm open to hearing what they think. I'm sure you can empathize with people
like yourself that have come out of the military that haven't found meaning or purpose when you
have, right? You've, you've found something, you've built something, you're, you're working
towards something, but I'm sure there's a lot of friends that you've dealt with that are going
through hell. That just, you know, I know there's a huge amount of veterans that kill themselves
every day. And my, my, my stories and my words, um, sometimes impact those guys and they hit them
like they feel like it's a, it's a punch below the belt, right? As they're, they're trying to
figure out their way in the civilian life. And here comes Jack Murphy saying this really,
this really bad thing happened, you know, in special forces or whatever the story may be,
right? Um, and then they take it personally, um, which I, I understand, um, I've tried to be,
yeah, a little bit more empathetic about how I talk about veterans and understanding that
they're going through the same process I went through at one point. I was there, right? I was
that angry guy who got out of the military and didn't know, I had no idea how to live life.
You know what I mean? Cause I'd never really lived in real life. I'd been in this cloistered
military environment the entire time.
Since you're a teenager, right?
Exactly. Now think about if you spend 20, 25, 30 years in the military,
you've basically been put into a time capsule and now you're in, uh, the civilian world and
you're having all these realizations. One of those realizations is they're realizing that the
America they thought they were fighting for, you know, this image they had of America of, you know,
guy putting his flag out on the porch on Memorial Day, you know, the store, leave it the beaver
America. Like that, that doesn't exist. It never existed. But then they're realizing this for the
first time when they retire and suddenly they're in the civilian world and they're seeing all these
people walk around and like the example I've given is let's say you're like a legit badass guy. Like
you were the command sergeant major of Delta force. Like you went, you went up to the top,
you did everything. You're a badass dude. You come into the civilian world and you tell people,
I was a command sergeant major in Delta force. Their first question is going to be,
what is command sergeant major? What is Delta force? Well, I was, it's not that they're anti
military. It's just because we have an all volunteer force. There's not a shared culture or a
common understanding like there was with like World War II veterans. Like if you were sitting in a
boardroom in 1950, no, I mean, I can't imagine someone there being like, you know, I was in the
battle of the bulge and, you know, you guys are a bunch of pussies because everyone else in that
boardroom will look at them and like, yes, so I fought in our dens. You know, I was at Omaha
Beach. Like everyone there was a veteran, right? You know, some dude, some guy was a marine fighting
in the Pacific. Yeah, it was a different shared culture that existed in that moment. I want to go
to you are when I don't know when you published it, but the story that you were working on with
that involved human trafficking at I published that like a week ago for Bragg. That was only a
week ago. How long had you been working on that story? It came together very quickly.
Yeah, I mean, some of these stories like this one, like worked on that like what eight months,
that CIA maritime branch story, I worked on that for like two years.
Yeah. And then but then that that special forces story that you're talking about, I worked on that.
I was up till two in the morning working on that, woke up the next day and wrote it.
Um, and yeah, you want you want to talk about the genesis behind that story. It's interesting.
A lot of the I shouldn't say a lot, but a few of these stories like the sort of like drama
inside or baseball happening in these units. The way I found out about this one was because
all these guys on Instagram were posting memes about it. Like, oh, third group's getting drug
tested. And you know, here's all this crazy stuff that's happening. I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa. So
I send a message to one of these accounts. I know who runs it. And I was like, spill the tea,
tell me everything now. And so, and so he tells me he tells me all the inside or baseball that's
going on. And I'm like, holy shit. And so I reach out to like probably 20 people that night and start
getting little bits and pieces of it. And I'm able to document little pieces of it.
Um, so what happened was back in December, there was a Special Forces soldier,
based on Fort Bragg, moonlighted as a bouncer at O'Donnell's pub, which is like a frequently,
it's a pub in Southern Pines. I've been there before. It's a nice place. And it's frequented by
the Special Forces dudes that hang out there. And this guy was allegedly pimping underage girls.
And he got picked up by an undercover agent. And I've seen his charge sheet. So he's charged
with kidnapping, statutory rape, human trafficking of a minor, and something else like, like,
I can't remember the exact charge, but there's another one thrown in there also. So they picked
this guy up. And I'm not clear if I don't know if he's talking to law enforcement or they just
ripped his phone. I think they got on his cell phone. And that led to them basically to CID,
the criminal investigation division, questioning like something like 15 people over the weekend.
And like two weeks ago now, and they on drug related charges. And they did recalls of Special
Forces, third group battalions, first battalion got called in on Sunday. And they pissed tested
all of them. I don't know exactly how many came up hot. But this is unfolding into like a pretty
big deal. There's a lot of people involved. And there's only one soldier being charged with
human trafficking just to be clear at this time. There are others who it looks like they're going
to be charged with felony use of cocaine. And I don't know how many others have pissed hot on
the urinalysis tests. That remains to be seen. But this story is unfolding. I can say I've
continued working on this. There is a lot, a lot going on here that I'm just not prepared to speak
about this time, because I have to do my diligence on the story before I speak about it publicly.
But I would feel comfortable in saying there's much more to follow on this.
How does something like this go so off the rails at a base like this at Fort Bragg? Like how does
this, what, how does this obviously this started somewhere and went fucking way off the rails and
gotten to territory where it's like out of control? I can answer that question. You know, it's a
question of culture and a question of subcultures and the infiltration of organized crime into the
military plays a role in it. And then you have the issue of leadership, lack of leadership.
You have leaders who are compromised themselves. And when leaders turn a blind eye to some illegal
activities, it's a signal to the rest of the force that they can also get away with it.
And the problem gets worse and worse and worse. And you end up with a subculture that resembles
the mafia in the sense that everyone has dirt on everyone else. And everyone's scared that somebody
in the network is going to defect, right? And, you know, sing like a canary to try to save
themselves. And that may be what's happening right now. So the short answer is, yeah, it's a question
of a toxic subculture, an insular subculture that is largely immune from peer review and
accountability and visibility. Special operations has come forward in the last couple of years and
acknowledged that they have an ethical problem in the ranks. They've done publications about this,
talking about it, trying to get the conversation going. They understand there's a perception
because of all the news stories that have come out over the last 10 years, especially.
But I don't think that message is being heard. The military, you have to understand it's a
large institution, and it's not particularly creative. It operates along standard operating
procedures. And so when they have problems like this, whether it's the Navy SEALs going through
their stuff or special forces, the default method of bringing discipline back into the force is,
okay, we're going to have more formations. We're going to have haircut and uniform inspections.
We're going to inspect your barracks. You're going to do organized PT. It's all the sort of like
army stuff. But the problem with a lot of that is I don't think that is necessarily, I mean,
maybe that's a tool you can use. But I'm not totally convinced that that's going to
stamp out drug use or horrible things like human trafficking. That has to be bottom up.
That has to do with the NCO culture. And there's no action. The colonel can't make you sit inside
a briefing because they already do make them sit in briefings like, hey, don't do drugs,
don't traffic humans. There's literally an anti-human trafficking training module soldiers
have to do like cordially. Yeah, yeah. So those sorts of like corporate,
corporatized leadership mechanisms, they don't really work in my view. That really
has to come from the bottom up. What is the motivation for human trafficking in places like
this? Well, I mean, soldiers, we have human trafficking. Fayetteville, North Carolina,
where Fort Bragg is, is like a human trafficking hub in the United States. That's like publicly
known and talked about by law enforcement. Oh, wow. Yeah. So they're becoming a part of these rings
and profiting off them and aren't like making money from this? In at least one case, this was
happening. Okay. And then soldiers also go to, or these soldiers are deployed to parts of the
world where there is frequent human trafficking. So that's another reason why, you know, you should
be cautious. I bet dealing with sources on stories like this can be pretty brutal,
pretty explosive. I mean, you're dealing with people, the sources I'm sure are very close to
some of the stuff that's going on here. I don't know if they're still at these bases or not,
but that's got to be a very, very delicate situation. There's a lot of trauma and there's a lot of fear.
There have been a lot of narcotics related deaths in the Fort Bragg area.
Seth Harp is a reporter who's done much more reporting on this than I have,
talking about the fentanyl and killings around the Fort Bragg area. But there's a lot of fear
and there's a lot of trauma from 20 years of war and the fallout that has on the soldiers
and on their family members. It's a mess, honestly. It's a train wreck. I mean,
at some point, we just have to call it what it is. We have to come out in the open and say,
we have a huge fucking problem on our hands. The denials just don't cut it anymore. The PR
doesn't cut it anymore. We have to admit that we have this problem and then we can start working
to solve it. I wanted to also talk briefly about, it's interesting to me the differences between
people across different branches of the military and how they are after they retire from the
military. For example, yesterday, I was talking to a Navy fighter pilot and it's interesting to
me the dichotomy between the psychology of a Navy fighter pilot going to war compared to the psychology
of a boots on the ground ranger in a firefight in Afghanistan and how disconnected the fighter
pilots are from the killing compared to the people on the ground and how that affects them
in the trajectory of their lives afterward. This guy, I talked to Ryan, the fighter pilot,
he seemed to, he was very matter of fact the way he was talking and I know there's drone pilots
that do the same thing. That's a little bit different because you're not actually flying
a plane, you're sitting at a computer, you're playing a video game killing people and I know
there's people that I have dealt with severe, severe PTSD from that. It's interesting to
me hearing those stories compared to your story, especially when you talk about, you witnessed
a guy, you were there when a guy was squirting out of a building and you guys took him down
and it was essentially nothing to you. It's so wild how that can be your experience,
but a guy in Las Vegas operating a drone can be so fucked up from something like this.
It's so situational and there could be other guys who witnessed that same event
and have post-traumatic stress from it because they experienced it in a different way.
I don't mean that as a judgment against anyone. There were guys in that deployment who
saved their buddy's lives, injured guys, limbs getting blown apart. There's terrible stuff.
There's a lot of different ways that guys can get PTSD, but I think what you touch on there is
really interesting the way that different positions, people in different occupations in the military
get different PTSD. One thing I would have laughed at this at one point in my life, but
through talking to people, I think I have a better understanding of it,
analysts get PTSD. The reason why, they're obviously not seeing a lot of blood and gore
necessarily. They're working in an operation center, working behind a computer, but they are so
firmly engrossed in their work and they feel all this pressure on them that I have to get it right
or soldiers are going to die. Their burnout rate is pretty high. They're trying to bring
in all this information and distill it and analyze it and put together intelligence products.
If a bomb goes off somewhere and kills somebody, sometimes their thought is,
that's my fault. Why did I miss that? Which is bullshit. It's the fault of the guy who planted
the bomb, but that's the kind of pressure that a lot of analysts put on themselves
and why they come away with PTSD from the job. The drone pilots, like you mentioned,
yeah, they are sitting behind, it's called a remote control station or something like this,
playing quote unquote video game, but the sensors on those drones, the video cameras,
have advanced significantly and you can zoom right in and see all the gory details.
And I did an article for Connecting Vets about drone strikes in Afghanistan towards the tail end
of the war and what some of the drone pilots were going through. And I mean, they're seeing death
every day and the pilots I talked to started to have severe moral issues with the types of killings
we were doing, that we were just dropping on anybody who used a radio, touched a radio,
you thought you saw a tack vest under their shirt, you thought maybe you saw the barrel
of a Kalashnikov under their vest, like we were just like killing all kinds of people
in Helmand Province during that timeframe. And they started to have serious moral injury over
this. And one of the guys I talked to, he has stories like they dropped on this man, unarmed male,
walking in a field, blew him up, his wife comes running out of the house and grabs his body and
is crying and she looks up into the sky and is shaking her fist. And they watch this. They also
get the grim duty of watching the bodies, pulling surveillance on the bodies after they kill them
and watching the people come and pick them up. Where do they take the body?
They're supposed to watch this. Yeah, gather more intelligence.
The kid I talked to on this podcast that was doing that, he said that when he was doing it,
he was brought in at a very, very young age. I think he wasn't even, I think he was like maybe
just 18. What platform did he fly? I don't remember. I'll stop my head. Some of the Army
RPA pilots are quite young. Yeah, I could go, I could probably pull it up and find out exactly
what the, what the drone that he was flying was. But I remember he was, I want to say he wasn't
even 18 when he got recruited. I don't know if that's possible or legal, but I couldn't be wrong.
You can enlist at 17. Okay. And yeah, I think you can start basic training at 17,
but then I'm not exactly sure what the law is offhand, but I don't think you can go to combat
until 18. I think that's the rule. Okay. Yeah, no. And he was explaining the culture, too,
of those people in there. If they have anything to say or they're not allowed to give any
opinions on what they're doing, they're told what they're going to do. And if they show any
sort of like vulnerability in this job, they're immediately outcast or called a pussy or called,
you know, this guy in particular, he was saying that that was very much the culture like that.
Like if you showed any sort of emotion doing these kinds, like, like carrying out these
kinds of acts that you were basically punished for it. Seems real tough in the moment, right? But
how many of those guys now have severe PTSD themselves and are cracking up and are, you know,
having a really rough go at it, you know, let's let, you know, unpack those units, look at their
suicide rates. And then you asked yourself the question, was this really the right way to handle
personnel, you know, to ostracize people, call people pussies, like instead of, you know, trying
to process what they were going through in a healthy way. Have you ever talked to any, like,
fighter pilots? I have. Again, this aviation is not like my area of expertise, but sure. Right,
obviously. What do you think, from you, what did you deduce from talking to fighter pilots who
have been deployed overseas and like, what is there? How does their experience or their view of
everything differ from yours being down there or like the culture or their day to day life?
I think it's a little bit different. They're a little bit removed from it. Even the helicopter
pilots, it's a different perspective. It's not a bad perspective, but yeah, they do come from a
different place. Well, they're stationed on carriers, right? And like what, like where,
how far away are the aircraft carriers from like when they go to like carry out strikes
over Afghanistan or Iraq? Like how? I don't think we were flying off carriers except during the
invasion, which was a huge, that was a very long movement for them. And how this might be a dumb
question, but how connected are you guys? Or is there any communication between the Navy jets?
Oh, certainly. Yeah. I mean, this is the thing that Americans do very well is we do joint
operations very well. So yeah, there's like, there will be like liaisons, there will be meetings,
there's there's all kinds of coordination. And with special ops teams on the ground,
usually you have a Air Force JTAC. So an Air Force guy joint terminal attack controller.
So it's an Air Force guy who's trained specifically to talk to aircraft in the air and tell them
where to drop their bombs. So it's like, that's like a very like tight relationship.
Okay. And then so going back to the journalism side of things. So after you got back and you
started doing some of your journalism stuff, were you contracted to do any sort of like any sort of,
you mentioned briefly that you did some sort of work in Africa?
Yeah, I mean, that wasn't a contract job. That was actually something that I was asked to do.
And my dumb ass did it for free. It was really it was business development. Essentially, I was
working with a small group of people and we were testing out some open source intelligence
methodologies. I did it. It was briefed at a fairly high level. They didn't really know what
to do with it, though, they didn't know what authorities they could even use that under.
But it's very interesting about like a year, a year and a half ago, I saw the special forces
commander in an interview talking about one of the things I worked on. And I was like, oh,
shit. Some of it got through. Who are you working for? It wasn't really working for anybody. I mean,
it was just kind of an informal group of people. Okay. There was like maybe a couple small like
they own their own little LLCs. But I mean, it was essentially like a proof of concept
that you could arrive in country and set up an open source intelligence platform with things
that are off the shelf that you can get there. And you know, there's this one concept, the one
that I heard the special forces commander use that we were testing out was called the naked man.
The naked man was a concept that that these people came up with that
that when you go into denied areas, Russia, Iran, China, whatever it is, that you may not be able
to go in with any sort of like spy equipment, or any sort of like shady dual use equipment,
right, that you need to come in, you may in because of biometrics and everything else,
you may not be able to fool that stuff. So you come in as a regular Joe on your passport.
And then once you're in country, you start developing the tools and the techniques and
the assets that you need to accomplish the intelligence collection with what you can
find on the local economy. And so we were testing some of these things out. And yeah,
apparently, some of it made it up to, you know, SF command. Oh, really? Years later. Yeah, because
that that that guy was saying in an interview talking, he specifically mentioned the naked
man concept. That's fascinating. Like using just the resources they have that are available to you
right to sort of unconventional warfare, unconventional warfare. Yeah. Wow, that's
interesting. Have you have you heard about, there's a guy who's been on here before Ryan Tate,
he is a former Marine, he went over there and started basically protecting the endangered
animals over there, like especially the elephants and the rhinos that are being poached by the
poachers out there. And they're carrying out like crazy missions to, to sort of like capture
these poachers. Really? And save the elephants. Yeah. And he's got they got a bunch of veterans
that are over there that are working. I mean, I know there are a lot of like different like
vet groups that have gone over there doing like counter poaching training and stuff like that.
I mean, I would be interested, interested if there were like, American veterans actually
going over there and shooting poachers. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, here it is. That's
called vet paw. I don't know. I don't think they've gotten into any like serious firefights.
They're more likely they're training and working, you know, again, with local partners to enable
the game wardens to do their job is probably what's happening. Right. Right. But it, it's wild
too, because there's the terrorist groups out in Africa. Oh, yeah. Well, what's the name of
that terrorist group again in Northern Africa? Well, there's there's a bunch. There's the name
of it is this game. Boko Haram in Nigeria. Yeah, like the Boko Haram that like took all those kids
hostage in the schools out there. And there's a lot of fucking crazy shit going on out there.
And I mean, if you're a, if you're a veteran dealing with some of the stuff that we talked about
earlier, going out and doing some shit like this is, is pretty close to like combat type
situations when you're dealing with terrorists and fucking lions and tigers and poachers.
West Africa is a fascinating, fascinating place. You know, and we've, you know, the United States,
you know, special ops community has been over there for a long time. There's a lot of at risk
populations that could, you know, fall prey to Islamic extremism. And we don't want that area
to become, you know, the next Afghanistan, another place, ungoverned area. But there's a tremendous
opportunity for West Africa as well. I mean, their population is going to swell over the next
couple of decades. There's a real hope that they're going to develop into what we would call like
First World Nations that they're going to really, yes, that they're going to that West Africa will
become the new, you know, West Europe for lack of a better term that they will follow their own,
their own trajectory, right? But that they're going to go through a rapid development process
in West Africa. Like what countries in particular? I mean, Nigeria, Gabon, Ghana, Senegal, Benin,
like all of these countries on the West African coast, going through this sort of like population
explosion, but also economic explosion over the next couple of decades. I mean, it's probably
going to become the most densely populated place on Earth, some people think. Well, China has dumped
a shitload of money into Africa as far as like railways and roads and like they're dumping so
much money into Africa. It's kind of bizarre. They are. It'll be interesting to see if it pays
dividends for them. You know, as China is starting to learn what we have learned that, you know,
there is a cost of trying to run a, I want to use the word empire, but let's just say maintaining
global influence is expensive and it's costly in many different ways. And we'll see how they
do there. It's interesting, you know, trying to figure out what their global chess game is with
that dumping all that money to there. I think they even paid for an embassy or some sort of
government building there that they found like spy equipment in. Could be. I mean, for them,
they're looking forward and they want to secure up arable land, natural resources.
They want to position themselves for, you know, this century and the next century.
And they're the ones that are responsible for the poaching too, because they're the ones that
are buying up all the ivory that is being, and these people, these poor fucking people in Africa
that they can either be poachers and fucking feed their family or they can be park rangers
and barely be able to afford anything. Yeah, it's a hard fucking thing to deal with.
Yeah, it's a sad situation. And these guys, Ryan, and he explained to me how they've gone
through operations where they've like tracked down poachers and fucking pulled them out of
their bedrooms at night where they're sleeping. Really? Yeah, well, their wives are sleeping next
to them, don't even wake up. Well, yeah, I mean, I wish these countries luck in those endeavors,
because I mean, I'm afraid that, you know, in my lifetime, we won't have elephants or rhinoceroses
anymore. Did you hear about there's a country like Northwest Africa that is like one of the biggest
cocaine importers in the world? Like these guys, the actual govern, one of the heads of
government, like the main, I forget. Yeah, so he was like the general or something. You're probably
talking about Morocco and Algeria, but zoom in, zoom in to the top left of Africa. Oh, you can't
zoom in. And you're right around there. Mali is very interesting too, because of the in the Sahel,
that like packed desert earth lends itself to like kind of landing an airplane wherever the
fuck you want. So you can fly those cocaine airplanes from Colombia, from South America,
and just like landed a desert improvised desert airstrip and offload drugs and then and then
they continue on to Europe. Yeah, this guy, the guy I believe I'm referring to, he was like the
head of the fucking navy of that country. And like he was didn't he was asked about this and
he completely denied it. And they later found out that he was the one in charge of all the
imports. Yeah, of course. Because the country, I mean, it's it goes it comes back to the countries
that are the most impoverished or that are going through the suffering the hardest, they're the
ones that are the most susceptible to corruption. There was a probably the most prolific pirate in
Somalia in modern history was this dude named Afwene, Afwene, which means big mouth. And he
his racket, you got to respect the game. He was the biggest pirate in Somalia. But he was also
taking money from the UN to run counter piracy operations. Guinea-Bissau, that's the company,
or that's the company, that's the fucking country. Oh, okay, that's that's West Africa. Yeah.
Anyway, sorry to interrupt. The pirate. Yeah, so yeah, this guy was he was basically playing
firefighter and orsonist. He was he was a pirate running all these piracy operations,
but also taking money from the UN to run counter piracy operations. Corner of the market, man.
Yeah. They caught my lawyer. They caught him. I think it was the Belgians arrested him.
What they did, they did a sting where they ward him into Belgium. They said they want to make a
documentary about him. And when he showed up in the airport, the authorities arrested him.
Really? Yeah. What's on the radar for you like in the coming year? Like what plans do you have as
far as like you're reporting in the future? And like, do you have any like big stories, big podcasts?
Like, yeah, man, I definitely, I mean, I think 2023 is going to be a good year. I'm excited.
I've started a national security news website. I got back into that with another journalist named
Sean Nalor, national security journalist, wrote a book about the history of JSOC.
It's called the high side. So we're on there now. We're working on stories for it.
I don't want to tease too much and get people disappointed, but I mean,
there's some pretty big like operation, past operations, you know, we're working on some
stories about that. I texted Dimitri when I was trying to buy your when I was trying to get your
book. And I searched your name on Apple Books. And there's like 50 fucking books that you wrote.
No, no, I wrote four novels. Okay. Years ago. There's some other Jack Murphy's maybe.
There is. So there's a quote unquote masculinity expert who uses my name.
Oh, really? Yeah. His real name is John Goldman. He uses the name Jack Murphy.
And yeah, he's a curious cat. He's a masculinity expert. Yes. And he had a whole,
he had a whole, a whole scandal like a year ago. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. I want to see what this
guy looks like, Austin. Yeah. So yeah, Jack Murphy blew up on this girl on a podcast and was like
telling her to go fuck herself. And so then like all this stuff started leaking out about him,
you know, the gay porn and oh, really putting things up his cold shoot. Yeah. So how did this
stuff come out? Listen, I wasn't a part of all that. I just got, I just got the nasty grams.
This is him? Yeah, I just got, I got emails from people who are looking for him. And they were
sending me emails. And they were like, I'm going to fuck your whore wife, Jack Murphy. I'm like,
you got the wrong Jack Murphy. Sorry, sorry, buddy. This guy's name isn't really Jack Murphy.
Why the fuck did he steal your name? What a dick? Yeah, well, I mean, his real name is John Goldman.
I'll leave people to speculate why he wouldn't want his audience to know that his last name is
Goldman. You can roll that one around on your own. So he's kind of like an old school. He's kind
of like in the same realm as Andrew Tate. Bro, I don't know. I don't get it. I heard, what do you
think about the Andrew Tate thing, him getting busted in a, what was the country he got busted?
Romania. Romania. I heard, I heard from one of my buddies that, one of my friends who thinks
everything's a scythe. He thinks that that was an intelligence operation. Why? Because this was,
this was his reasoning. I'm going to try to regurgitate this as accurately as I possibly can.
But he thinks that China wanted him to be arrested. So China somehow did the deal with Romania to get
him arrested, to either arrest him or kill him, to put him away. So he could not
keep growing his cult following and spreading this message of masculinity, because China
doesn't want the message of masculinity in America. China wants American children to be stupid and
weak and scrolling on TikTok all day, not trying to be men like Andrew Tate. Wow. That was his theory.
Okay. I mean, yeah, that reminds me of like John McAfee. The, yeah, I got going off the rails,
like the CIA is trying to steal my penis when I sleep, you know, that kind of.
Is that what he said? Oh, he didn't say that. But I mean, he was, he was like, thought like,
they're coming to get me and all this crazy stuff. He did say like, not long before he died that if
I die, I didn't kill myself. Yeah, I think a lot of these people have like delusions of grandeur.
That John McAfee story is an interesting story. Yeah, it is. And oh, Jack Murphy,
that's not your Instagram account though. The fake Jack Murphy. This Jack Murphy,
John Goldman, he should have to shave his beard and send it to me in a small box.
Yeah, that beard's a little, a little ridiculous. He should be denied my name.
Denied. That's awesome, man. We'll tell the people that are listening and or watching where they
can find your books, where they can find the podcast. Oh, there's your Twitter.
Yeah, that's where you can find all my shitposting on Twitter at Jack Murphy RGR.
You know, the book Murphy's Law, that's on Amazon. My novels are on Amazon.
I write for a website connecting vets.com. I produce podcasts for stars and stripes
called Military Matters. Again, the high side is the news site. I'm in the process of standing
up with Sean. And then the podcast is the teamhouse. The teamhouse is on YouTube. It's on
wherever you go to find podcasts and we're alive every Friday night, 8 p.m.
And what is the name? What does the name come from, teamhouse?
It's a, the teamhouse is, it's just where, you know, a special forces team operates out of.
It would be called the teamhouse. Oh, okay. And that's sort of the vibe we go through,
go for in the, in the show is that the feeling is that, you know, like you're at a bar with like
some old, you know, veteran, you know, knocking back a few scotches and he's telling you some
stories about his career. And who is the guy that you do the show with? David Park. David Park.
Yeah. Dave, Dave has a very eclectic background. He was in the Marines. He was a Navy diver.
He was a Army Ranger. He's done all kinds of cool stuff in life, actually.
That's amazing. Fantastic podcast. Highly recommended. I'll link it below.
Awesome. And thanks again, man. I really appreciate it.
Yeah. Thanks for having me on the show. Absolutely, man. We got to do it again for sure.
Yeah. Let me know. All right. Goodbye, world.
