All right, this video is sponsored by Skillshare.
Skillshare is an online learning community
with over 25,000 classes in design, business, and more.
Premium memberships give you unlimited access
so you can join the classes and communities
that are just right for you.
Whether you wanna feel your curiosity, creativity,
or even your career,
Skillshare is the perfect place
to keep learning and thriving.
Join more than 7 million creators
learning with Skillshare.
Join groups with like-minded learners,
give and receive feedback on projects,
and speak with others that have the same interests as you.
I personally enjoyed a lesson on Skillshare
called Working Not Working,
which is geared towards educating freelancers,
creative freelancers, in brand elevation,
and earning more money.
Skillshare is giving away a free two-month
unlimited access trial to concrete subscribers
who click the link in the description box below.
After that, it's only $10 a month.
Let's start it, you ready?
Here we go, Matcox number four.
The fourth installment of the Matcox series.
These tails are fucking riveting, man.
These tails are just, you like my stickers?
Take some.
You can have that whole stack if you want.
Yeah, I'll put one on.
We put them up everywhere.
Maybe if I had a Ferrari, I wouldn't put it on.
Yeah, yeah.
We'll stick one on the halfway house.
All of your stories are just so mind-blowing.
I just finished a couple hours ago,
Devil Exposed, which is the story we're gonna talk about
today on today's podcast.
But the crazy thing about all your stories
is that they are all worthy of having screenplays.
They're all worthy of being feature films, which is insane.
Yeah.
It's like you're turning over these stones.
I mean, they're not stories that are making headlines.
No one's looking for this kind of stuff.
You were just there and the fact that by chance
you met Roussini, the main guy who tells the story.
Right.
Yeah, I was actually doing it.
It's pretty incredible.
So how did the guy Roussini, how did you meet this guy
and how did he introduce this whole story to you?
He does legal work and he works with Frank Amadeo.
Oh, really?
Yeah, he bounces, they bounce ideas off each other.
Really, Roussini would say I bounce ideas off of Frank
because he's like, he's so smart.
And Roussini, he didn't really talk to almost anybody.
I don't think he talked to anybody for months,
except for Frank.
He's got a touch, and even he'll admit this,
he's got, he goes, I have a little bit
of an Asperger's syndrome, just a touch.
You know, he's a socially little awkward.
Matter of fact, you know what I ought to do?
I have a clip of him at a wedding.
It's like where he gives a toast.
Oh, really?
Yeah, I think he's probably pretty shit-faced,
but he does give a toast, but you can actually see
like a 25-year-old, you know, Roussini.
Yeah, okay.
Where can you see that clip?
You have it saved somewhere?
Yeah, I have it on my computer.
I can send it to you.
Yeah, send it.
My assistant can send it to you.
Before we get too far into how you met him,
can you give me the basic log line
of the story Devil Exposed that Roussini told you?
Or the story about Roussini, which is called Devil Exposed,
which is the book that you wrote.
Right, right.
So what is the basic synopsis or log line of that story?
It's, you know, Roussini's an admitted drug dealer,
or really he's a manufacturer of drug or drug trafficker,
so he manufactures drugs, super smart guy.
Anyway, so let's say he's a drug trafficker
and he gets roped into a conspiracy
that he was not involved in.
He gets set up by essentially the FBI and an FBI informant.
And he ends up, he basically gets railroady,
he ends up in federal prison.
And the person that-
He got framed for a murder, right?
Right, right.
Yeah, he got framed for a murder that he didn't commit
in order to save the ass and to save the asses
of a couple FBI agents that were dirty.
Right, okay.
And Mahler was the U.S. attorney at that time
in San Francisco.
And he, you know, like I said,
he didn't start the conspiracy, he came in part way
and discovered it was a conspiracy,
but instead of untangling it and saying,
you know, unraveling the whole thing
and saying, whoa, whoa, this isn't right.
We gotta go after these guys and these guys.
Instead, he just furthered the conspiracy
and basically let these guys go into, you know,
let these guys rot in prison.
Mahler did that.
Yeah, keep in mind, two of the guys definitely murdered.
Rob, and we're talking about like the Robert Mahler,
the guy that's all over CNN, the Mahler reporting guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The guy, special counsel investigating Trump.
But, you know, and this is the thing I think
I mentioned to you before, it's like,
you know, this is what's so fucked up is like,
it would be an amazing story.
It'd be a better story if Mahler had nothing to do with it
because what happens is Mahler ends up overshadowing
everything becomes Mahler, Mahler, Mahler.
Well, if his name was John Doe,
it would, you'd be like, oh man, this guy got framed.
Instead, everybody that reads it focuses in on Mahler
and that's really bullshadowing.
He's kind of like a selling piece of the story.
Right, right.
Well, and what happens is it becomes,
people become polarized when a politics are involved.
But to me, it's not about politics.
I don't have a problem with Mahler.
I don't care that it's Mahler.
I could give a shit.
What I care about is that a US attorney helped
further a conspiracy, did not cut this guy loose,
and has continued to conspire to keep this guy,
keep Roussini in prison.
And listen, the two guys that committed the murders,
well, they had Thanksgiving with their family.
Pete's eating a holiday meal in the fucking chow hall, bro.
He didn't kill it.
He got 40 years.
Pete meaning Roussini.
Roussini, sorry, Pete, Roussini, yes.
Pete, AKA, he refers to him as Pete,
but we're talking about Roussini in the story.
Right, right.
I'll try and stick with Roussini.
You correct me.
I just want to try to keep it very consistent.
It's very, the story is like convoluted with names
and it's hard to follow with all the names.
Well, that's why I'm thinking we just,
here's what I'm thinking.
Because, you know, there's some stuff,
and I don't know if you noticed this.
And you made it clear about why it's so confusing
because Roussini, the way he told you it,
he wanted to focus, he wanted to put a lot of focus
on all the little details because they meant so much to him.
Right, because he's been locked up over 20 years.
Right, it's his life.
And it's his whole life.
So if you're fighting your case for 20 years,
every single thing is massive in your mind.
And you have to think your world in prison is very small.
So to me, you hear something,
you're like, I'm not gonna mention that, it's no big deal.
He's like, no, no, it's so super important
because so-and-so did such and such and that's why,
so-and-so, and then they, when I got arrested,
they said that I did this and I didn't.
That wasn't even my fault.
That wasn't even my stuff.
Right.
You're like, Jesus, God almighty, bro.
Right, and there's a lot of little details like that.
There's all these little details
that what happens is he doesn't realize,
because I told you, he has a touch of Asperger syndrome.
Super smart, like, makes me feel like I'm drooling.
I mean, he really, he's just brilliant.
You can say, I can ask anything, you know,
and say, yeah, I wonder what's,
you know, you don't have internet.
I don't pick, I can't pick up and say,
hey, Siri, when did this happen?
I'll say something and he'll say-
Siri just picked up on that.
Oh my God.
That's funny.
Okay.
The feds are listening right now.
They're listening live.
But he immediately, he'll know it and he'll go,
he'll say the date.
Oh yeah, that happened and that was 1982.
Oh, shit.
That was October 19th.
I'm not sure if it was the 14th or 15th
and you're like, the fuck do you know that?
And he goes, well, because it was so-and-so's birthday
and on her birthday, we went to go see this,
this, you know, this, whatever, concert.
And I remember it was two days later in that episode.
It had to be the 15th.
Yeah, you know what, it was definitely the 15th.
You're like, the fuck, like fucking Rain Man.
A timeline.
And it's bizarre.
It really is bizarre.
And I could, what was great about it was,
I could turn around, I'd go, hey Pete, when did this happen?
Oh, that was October 13th.
I remember because, and he'll tell you why he remembers.
You know, and as he gets to know you,
he loosens up a little bit, you know, funny guy.
We laugh all the time.
Works for Frank Amadeo.
They both do legal work.
And of course, you know, he's done a good portion
of his own legal work.
Yeah.
And listen, this guy's been sentenced, what, three,
four times?
Was it four times?
He's been sentenced, no.
I thought it was two 20-year sentences.
No, no, but that was at the same time.
I'm saying he then appealed it.
Oh, yeah.
Got a portion knocked off, then appealed it.
Got a portion knocked off, then appealed it.
Got a portion knocked off.
So he's been sentenced, let's see.
One, wait, one, two, three, four.
He's been sentenced four times.
Who the fuck is, who wins three appeals?
That's crazy.
You gotta have something wrong with your case to win.
You can't win one appeal.
You know how many, 22, 55s, that's a habeas action
where you say that your lawyer's ineffective?
Man, there's something like 3,500 of them
that are filed for every one that is actually approved.
I'm sure the appeal ratio's way lower.
Right.
So he, I mean, he's, there's, listen, when you see this,
oh, you know what's so funny?
Remember, so you just got that on radiant.
Remember when the guy after Mueller gives him that,
gives Pete the ironclad agreement
that he's gonna, he'll sentence, will be reduced?
Yeah.
And then the new US attorney says,
your honor, there's no agreement.
We've never, we have never promised this man anything.
So Racini is like, what the hell?
I have a copy of it right here.
Yeah, I have a copy right here and he sends it in.
Do you have a copy of it?
I got a copy of it.
No.
I printed it out for those 740 pages, right?
I printed, man.
Do you have the agreement that him and Robert Mueller signed?
Yeah, it's got, I mean, it's, I gotta get,
right, right, we'll get to that, we'll get to it, yeah.
That's crazy.
Where do you print all this stuff?
That's it right there.
I wrote down, right here.
See, I tagged some of the important ones
because you cut me an hour short.
So I got all, I'm all frazzled and shit.
So I was gonna have everything tagged.
I was all excited, fuck me up.
So, yeah, promise, this is a promise in this letter
confirming agreement between you and the US attorney's office
in the Northern District of California.
And this is, this is the actual promise
where they actually say,
and it's these two paragraphs right here
where they say, right after you cooperate,
we will cut your, or we will reduce your sentence.
They never say that, never, I've never,
this is the only one I've ever seen.
If you told me about it, if I hadn't seen it,
I wouldn't even believe it.
Wow.
Because I'd be like, they don't do it, period.
They just don't do it, no, just doesn't happen.
And so, let's start back from the beginning.
So you meet Roussini in prison.
Right.
Do you approach him?
Does he approach you?
How does this whole thing get kicked off?
Well, Frank was working on my case.
And I kept sitting at the table.
I was working on another guy's story named Donovan Davis.
And Donovan has a really good story too.
It's about a con man.
What's so funny about his story is that
the whole story is Donovan's the mark.
He just happened to end up in prison.
The con man is this guy, Blaine.
And so, I love Blaine.
I'm like, Blaine's, he did what?
Oh, that's great.
And he's just like, you know, I hate this fucker, right?
You know, he ruined my life.
I'm like, yeah, he's pretty cool.
I used to read this one and he's like,
and I would, and he was always like,
you know, you fucking remind me of him, right?
I go, I know, I'm sorry about that, Donovan.
So what happened with, you know, he just, anyway.
But Pete and Frank are working on Donovan's stuff.
And I kept coming around and eventually
Pete started talking to me.
And then, you know, we would talk a little here
and a little there.
And then one day Donovan said,
you know, have you talked to Pete about his case?
And I went, Frank?
No, Donovan.
Oh, Donovan, okay.
Because I was all working on Donovan's story.
You were working on Donovan's story.
I was working on Donovan's story.
Frank and Pete were working on his legal case.
Okay.
And so Donovan one day said,
you ought to talk to Pete about his story.
Because I was wrapping up Donovan's story
and I was finishing it up.
And it's on the website.
It's called The Gap.
The Gap, okay.
Yeah.
So I, you know, I said, oh yeah.
And he goes, yeah, you ought to talk to him.
So I mentioned it and, hey Pete, you know,
Donovan said you have a really interesting story.
And he said, Donovan was the one who kept saying,
yeah, yeah, his U.S. attorney ended up being FBI director.
He's like one of the longest running FBI directors.
I was like, oh, okay.
And he was like, Robert Mueller, oh, okay.
Mueller to me was nobody.
He's nobody then.
What year was this?
About two, three years ago.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, I would know the, what does it say?
17, you felt 17 maybe?
Hold on, boom.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
October 17, October, 2017.
Okay.
So we started talking.
We walked around the compound a few times.
He told me some stuff.
It did sound, it sounded very breaking bad.
Oh yeah, it's just straight breaking bad.
Only these guys are cooking crystal meth.
In Hollywood.
In Hollywood.
Beverly Hills and Penthouse sweets and shit.
Not only that, but they hired a chemistry professor
to cook all the crystal meth.
Right.
That's the guy that teaches Rossini how to do it.
Right.
They go to like, is it, it's not UCLA.
Well, no, they do go to UCLA.
But that's not where he's from though.
He wasn't the professor there,
but that's where they go to use the chemistry.
You know, there's no internet.
So they're going there and studying
and they're refining, you know,
and they would break it down
so that they didn't get any of the controlled substance,
controlled whatever products or that they're,
so they're breaking it down to the essentials
and building everything up and coming up.
I mean, it's amazing.
What he was doing is amazing.
I mean, listen, I'll bet you Pete's got 160 IQ at least.
I mean, just, the guy's just brilliant.
Couldn't tell you how much car cost.
You know what I'm saying?
He's like, he's rain man.
You know what I'm saying?
He's just, but he's brilliant.
So what happens is we start talking,
we start walking around the compound
and so I finished up Donovan's story
and then I was doing somebody else's story
and I basically heard, he told me his whole story.
I was like, man, that's really good.
You know, he kept focusing on his case.
I was like, yeah, okay.
But you know, basically I understand the dirty agents
that, and when he started talking about dirty FBI agents,
and I was like, you know, it's like,
okay, bro, let's be reasonable here.
You know what I'm saying?
Can you prove that?
He's like, yeah, I can prove it.
I got like, he has like 24, 25 bankers boxes
filled with stuff.
They've got a whole room with it stacked in there.
Listen, the staff hate his guts.
I mean, they're like, you got a whole fucking room
with all your boxes, but he's got a court order,
says you can't throw it away.
So he, anyway, so he's like, yeah, I can prove it.
And he's like, I can prove it.
Look, the agents retired, you know, this happened.
They admit this, they admit that.
So anyway, I'm like, okay, so I was skeptical,
but then as you get to know him, you realize that, you know,
he doesn't, he's not a liar.
He's not an exaggerator.
He's not that guy.
It's all about facts for him.
He can't massage things.
You know, it's like, yeah, but if you say it,
you ought to just say it like this from now on.
And he's like, yeah, but that wouldn't be accurate
because technically it, and you're like, ah, Christ.
All right, Pete, you can say it like that.
If I say it's this, he's like, well, the actual legal term
is, what the fuck is what the legal term is?
I'm trying to, I'm writing a story here.
Nobody knows the difference between that and that, you know?
So.
This whole thing started basically
when he was like in his early twenties
and they started manufacturing ecstasy, right?
Right, started with ecstasy.
It wasn't even illegal yet.
So then it becomes illegal and he and this guy named John
Ellenberger, Ellenberger brings him in
because he's a super smart kid
and Ellenberger is a few years older than him
and he asks around and he knows him through some other guys
and he comes to him and he approaches him a few times.
And Ellenberger is at this point,
like mid twenties driving a Ferrari
and he's running around LA just slinging Coke and ecstasy.
And banging models, I mean, literally banging playboy models.
I mean, he's, you know, he's a rock star.
And he's partying with guys from Axel,
I mean, from Guns N' Roses and in the other,
in the larger volume book,
when I talk about how Pete would come home
and these guys from Guns N' Roses would be on the couch
with his little brother playing the guitar.
That's crazy.
He's like, you know, it wasn't a big deal.
Looking back, I realized, yeah, that's not normal.
Yeah.
He's also, they're living in a two and a half million dollar
house.
He's like with no furniture, you know?
He's like, I mean, it's, you know, you're kids.
He was, you're just stupid.
Right.
So, but yeah, they would move.
And so they set up a, they end up,
they end up, they're making a ton of money.
Pete starts making a ton of money.
And then what they do is this guy Robilus comes along
and he comes to them and they know,
they know the circle of drug dealers.
They know these guys are manufacturing acts.
So Robilus comes in and says, look,
can you manufacture this?
And it's just crystal.
And he goes, what is it?
He goes, it's called ice.
It's crystal meth.
He has this methamphetamine, but it's crystallized.
He was in, it's a super pure form of it.
Right.
And he goes, well, yeah, give it to me.
And I'll, I'll put in the mass spectrometer
and fucking break it down, figure out what's in this shit.
Keep in mind, it's a pre-internet.
Yeah.
So they break it down.
He talks to the, he talks to the professor and they go
and they, they break it down.
The professor says, okay, well, we gotta do this and this.
So they, they break it all down.
I mean, it's, it's breaking bad.
Yeah, it is.
They figure the, they figure that for shit out.
And they don't, but they're not making meth.
They're making crystal meth, which I didn't know the difference.
I wonder if breaking bad was based off this fucking story.
I don't, you know, like.
Breaking bad first come out.
There's a guy it's based off of.
Is that?
Yeah.
I mean, this seems to,
I've seen the story on the, there's a, there's a guy
that looks just like that guy in breaking bad.
Yeah.
It's based off of it.
Yeah. And breaking bad was way after this too.
You know, this is, breaking bad was like 10 years,
10, 15 years after that.
Right.
So actually the professor does get busted eventually.
Right.
I've seen, I've read two articles on him getting busted.
And how do they, how do they get this,
this, this chemistry professor to manufacture the crystal meth?
Well, he needed money.
Money.
Yeah.
I mean, listen, I got.
He didn't have cancer, did he?
No, it's not, it's not in this book.
Yeah.
But in the, in the, the full book is, I mean,
the professor is hilarious.
I mean, like he's dating this,
he's dating this tall black chick that,
Pete's like that, I'm, it may have been a man.
Okay.
I mean, Adam's apple.
He was like, we had some serious discussions.
He was 25 years younger than him.
He goes, he's just head over heels.
He said, I mean, it was, it was bizarre.
Yeah.
It was bizarre.
You know, and, and he, and he, of course, he's smoking,
do I mention that he's smoking?
He's free-basing.
Free-basing.
Smoking Coke.
Right, right.
Uh, which, you know, back then was not like,
you know, it wasn't crack, it was, it was free-basing.
Close to the same fucking thing.
I understand, but in his mind, it was different.
Right, right.
You're right.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, it wasn't.
When you're doing it, of course it's different.
Yeah, it wasn't.
I'm not smoking crack.
They're free-basing.
So he, uh.
There's a difference, God damn it.
So they're doing the drugs and everything.
Anyway, he and, uh, he and Ellenberger end up,
they get into a huge fight, they, they separate.
And then, so Pete takes over, when Pete takes over,
they end up making, start making.
So Pete starts cooking it?
Yeah, cook, he's been doing it.
Oh, so Pete learned from the chemist.
He learned, absolutely, he was a right-hand man.
Okay, cool.
You know, he's talking about the part where, you know,
he's driving him around cause he kept,
the professor keeps crashing cars and shit.
So he's kind of like the handler.
Right, he's babysitting him,
but he's also has learned everything.
So, and Pete's super smart, so he picks up right away,
so I've been, listen, I've been in Coleman before
where actual chemists come and sit down
and Pete starts talking to him.
And he's like, what's the chemical combination?
And they start talking and the guy will walk away
and he'll have a chemistry degree.
And he's like, he's got a, he's, where do you graduate?
I'm like, I'm fucking graduated, what are you talking about?
Dropped on a high school.
He's got a high school diploma.
And they're like, what?
I'm like, yeah.
And they're, he's like, fucking, he knows this
and this and this.
And I'm like, dude, he's a sharp dude.
Yeah.
So, you know, if only it used his superpowers for good.
Yeah.
So, so what happens is they start making ice
and they start making a ton of money with ice.
And so at some point this guy, there's a task force set up
throughout California, there's many task force
and most of them are the FBI's involved in
or over in some way.
And they'll, they will conscript people
from the other, the state agencies.
What they do is they, they deputize,
deputize them as basically FBI agents, you know,
they call, they'll call him a, he's an FBI,
he's a deputized federal officer working
for the FBI task force.
Well, so he's an, he, so all of the,
so he's now enforcing all of the federal laws.
He's an FBI agent is what he is.
And that comes up a few times.
But so whenever you hear me say FBI, FBI,
FBI keeps being brought up, the government keeps trying
to separate them.
No, no, that wasn't like Mueller was like,
he was a state, he was a state.
No, he wasn't state.
He's, and I'll specifically, this is the document
that I was talking about where I explain
that this is where the guy, Sean Barrera.
Who, now who was Sean Barrera?
Sean Barrera is the, I mean, he says right here,
deputized special federal officer for the FBI.
That's Sean Barrera.
He works for the FBI task force, the drug task force.
And it's right here and it's, anyway,
this is on the website, it's like exhibit eight.
So, exhibit eight.
So, and I don't go through all these,
there's 700 and like 40 pages of exhibits.
I've knocked it down to maybe this is maybe 200 pages.
Okay.
And I feel like I trimmed it down pretty good.
There's some stuff I would love to go over,
but the fact of the matter is,
nobody's gonna fucking watch a six hour podcast.
Well, they might actually, if you're doing it,
they'll watch it.
Okay, so, anyway, so,
like this is gonna be a little issue
because the only reason I'm not even really,
don't want to focus on the book
because someone watching, oh man, I'm sorry.
Sorry.
See, I'm a hands guy.
I'm not talking.
So, you know, the problem is what we're talking about,
people will watch it and say, oh, that's bullshit.
That's not true.
Okay, well, don't fucking try, don't listen to me, bro.
Go on the, buy the book, definitely buy the book.
Buy the book, go on the website.
I got a whole website with 740 pages of documents
and they, this thing is, man, this thing,
there's never been anything this supported
with documentation.
So, I'm saying, I'm just gonna go,
let's just go kind of go through the documents.
I don't have to read them anything
because I know we had taught that talk, it's boring.
I'll just explain what each document is
and we'll just kind of go through
and that will tell the story.
So, let's tell the story through the documents.
So, instead of the book.
Right.
You know, I mean, there is a book.
There is a book.
Devil Exposed, you can buy it on Amazon.
The link is below.
Links below.
So, here is, okay, so,
Barrero is an FBI agent.
He, his main asset is a guy named Mark Farsion.
Right.
Farsion is, he rides with the Hell's Angels.
He was once a drug dealer.
Now, he's just a professional.
He's a professional informant.
So, he weasels his way into groups.
He gets them comfortable with them.
He starts dealing drugs with them
and they come in and crack them, right?
Yeah.
This is common.
The problem is there's a lot of money involved.
And so, what happens is,
these guys start ripping up periodically.
They're in a situation where
I've kind of infiltrated your group.
You trust me, we set up a deal.
You bring half a million dollars.
I'm supposed to bring the drugs.
I don't bring the drugs.
I just bring my badge and my gun.
And I say, give me the shit, FBI.
Or we can just bust you.
Right, right.
You got a life sentence on you right now.
You're gonna get a life sentence.
Or just hand over the drugs
or the money or whatever it is.
Just stick some up for it.
Now, what could this guy do with,
what could this guy possibly do with,
for example, 10 pounds of ice?
Oh, he just could take that
and then parlay it into another drug deal.
Where now he just sells the ice.
Now he could just sell it, okay, I got it.
Right, so if they end up getting the money, great.
If they get ice, well, that's fine.
Then they can then turn around and sell the ice.
They're not worried about getting busted.
No matter what happens.
They always gotta get out of jail free card, right?
Well, think about it.
Even if I walked in,
I arranged something to go to sell it
and then boom, there's a raid.
I can always turn around and if it's just DEA,
you go, whoa, whoa, whoa, what are you guys doing?
I'm FBI.
Right, undercover.
Right, so, and keep my, oh, just keep mine.
I said that about a thousand times last night.
That's okay.
I'm gonna go with understand.
Okay.
You have to understand.
Okay, so.
Take a shot every time he says keep him on.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So you, so you have to understand,
Farsion actually gave,
I'm sorry, Barrero gave Farsion a badge and a gun.
So I mean, you don't give your informant a badge and a gun.
Right.
He's got a badge and a gun.
He's flashing it.
He's telling people he's FBI.
He's, and what's even funnier,
what's not even in the book is that at one point,
Farsion loses the badge.
Pete's mom has it.
Has it in her safety deposit box.
Has took pictures of it.
Sent it to Mueller saying, come get this badge.
I don't want it.
Pete told him about it during the interviews.
Mueller didn't even, he didn't even respond.
He can't respond because a 302 would be generated.
Oh, what's a 302?
It's a, it's a report from the FBI.
It's a chronological report so that any agent can grab it
and start reading.
And it tells everything the step by step,
everything that's happened, everybody we've talked to,
everything we've done, every phone call we got,
every interview, everything.
So just document.
Right.
Everything is recorded.
Right.
If you mind if I called up and said,
hey, I found an FBI badge sitting outside.
Within 30 minutes, there'd be two agents here picking it up.
Real quick.
But he can't say anything because of,
you have to hear the whole, you know, the whole story.
Yeah.
He can't.
He can't know about it.
Right.
He can't further this, this whole FBI thing
because he's been denying it the whole time.
Right.
So, all right.
So eventually what happens is,
this is already taken too fucking long.
All right.
So eventually what happens is,
Farceon and Barrero get John Ellenberger to,
they go to them and they say,
look, we need to buy a bunch of like ice or coke.
I think it was ice.
Was it ice?
Yeah.
They wanted to buy a bunch of ice.
Like 50 pounds or something.
Oh, right, right of, was it ice or coke?
I thought it was ice.
Fuck, I don't remember.
Who cares?
Ice Coke, what's the difference?
Right.
See, we're seeing.
We're seeing even though.
Oh yeah, we're seeing even though.
Actually, there's a difference.
Quite a big difference.
Right.
So what happens is a drug deal.
They set up a drug deal where they're supposed to show up
and they're bringing product and money.
And what happens is they show up
and they pull out their badges.
This is at their drug lab in the penthouse
on Sunset Boulevard.
Sunset Boulevard, yeah.
In this high rise building where they've got a drug lab,
they go in, they get the money, they take the money.
They're supposed to bring the drugs back instead.
They pull their badges out and they say,
hey, listen, man, we're taking your shit
and we're taking all this ice.
They take everything and they go,
just be thankful you're not going to prison right now.
Don't say a fucking thing and they walk off.
So Pete's there, I think there's another guy there too.
And so is John Ellenberger.
Ellenberger, yeah.
So Ellenberger's like, holy shit,
keep in mind Ellenberger's been going around town
vouching for this guy.
He's been telling people, oh, he's good,
oh, he's good people.
He's good people.
For Farsion?
For Farsion, yeah.
For Farsion Barrera, they're good guys.
Oh, bad, you know.
Not good guys.
No, no, and not a good idea
to be telling your drug dealing buddies
who are serious drug dealers.
But they can trust him.
Right.
But you can trust this guy.
And they're agents.
They've been dealing with him, so fuck.
Doesn't look good.
Point is, is that they take the fucking money and they leave.
So here's, so what happens is that happens,
he's pissed off about it.
Everybody's upset with him.
He's lost a chunk of money.
Chunk of money.
How much money do you think that bust was worth?
Oh, I mean, that was in the millions.
It was in the millions.
I mean, it was like, I think he got away with cash of like,
it's something like 300,000.
I'd have to look at the exact amount.
But all the ice was worth.
The ice was worth.
Over two to three million or something.
Several million.
Yes, at least several million.
So what ends up happening is two weeks later,
two, three weeks later, two or three weeks later,
they're doing another, they're cooking more ice.
So they're cooking ice and everybody leaves for the day
and Racini's there and he's burning off some chemicals.
Like he's like, you know, you can burn off,
like the water, if you burn it off,
you'll still have some there and you can use that.
He was all burning it off.
He ends up, a lick of flame shoots up
and hits the fire extinguisher or fire, whatever.
And it goes off.
Woo, woo, I mean, fucking goes nuts.
He's in a lab with tons of money and everything.
These guys are driving porches and Ferraris,
I mean, and they're in their early 20s.
So he grabs the money, he grabs some ice,
he grabs his stuff, he goes running downstairs,
he jumps in his Porsche, he takes off.
The fire department shows up, they go in,
there's a fucking meth lab.
So they call the police, the police show up,
they check it out, they go,
oh my God, this is insane.
Well, there's a laptop there that's Pete's,
there's mail from Ellenberger, Ellenberger's like drivers,
somebody's driver's license is there,
the electric and waters and different people's names.
We're all going to prison.
You're all done.
You got some explaining to do.
I mean, he's like, you don't understand,
the amount of evidence that was in there is just devastating.
So they all get together and they're terrified.
Like the next day, they're all like freaking out.
Pete's already gone and given his lawyer $600,000 in cash
because he's like, you got to bail me out.
And the lawyer's like, I can't bail you out with $600,000.
That's crazy.
It's like, I don't know what to do, I'm going to get arrested.
So they go to the mall, they're talking
and they're all flipping out.
And basically because it's Pete's fault,
I'm sorry, God damn it, because it's Racini's fault.
So because it's Racini's fault, they say-
Pete is Racini.
Pete is Racini, yeah.
Call Farshione.
We know he's dirty.
He's a dirty FBI agent.
I mean, I know he's actually a dirty,
he's actually an informant, but he's playing FBI.
They think he's an FBI agent.
So they're like, call him, call him in Barrero.
So the guy that took the load from him before.
Took all the money.
We know he's dirty.
So I can call and talk to him.
All right, he kind of owes you one.
So he calls him up, they pay phone, makes a phone call,
gets the fucking call back, it's a pager,
talks to him and he says,
and so he immediately goes, what the fuck are you guys doing?
We gave you a pass.
We let you go.
Why'd you stay in the fucking place?
It's going, cause keep in mind too,
they had told the FBI, they were gonna bust these guys.
Instead, they ripped them off and they told them
when we got there, there was no lab.
They moved.
Now there's a lab two weeks later.
They're like, we've been in the office all day
saying, I shit you not.
They must have left, they must have come back.
We didn't know.
So instead of busting them, they just got the money from them.
Yeah, they took the money.
And then there was none there.
They didn't.
So Pete's like, so they ended up talking and he says,
they said, man, you guys are in a lot of trouble.
And Pete said, I could hear he was really anxious.
He was scared.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Racini was like, he was scared.
So I saw an opportunity and he goes,
and he goes, man, you guys are in a lot of trouble.
He goes, yeah, well that pales with the comparison
how much trouble you two fuckers are in.
Is anything happens to me or anybody that I know he's,
if we so much as get talked to about this shit,
he goes, you guys are going down.
He just ripped them off.
So he's like, all right, I'll take care of it.
He said, call me in a couple of days.
So calls him back a couple of days later.
Nobody's ever spoken to him.
They don't ever call.
And just to let you know, this is the actual lease
from a guy by the name of Joey Escoboza.
Joey Escoboza, his phone numbers on here, his address,
his everything's on the lease.
For that apartment?
For the apartment.
Yeah, in the hills.
Exhibit 12, in the hills.
I mean, in the condo.
This is the lab.
The meth lab.
The meth lab.
Right, right.
Never even got talked to.
Not what matter of fact.
The guy in the lease and no one ever even talked to him.
Nobody even talked to him.
They quashed the whole thing.
They went in, boom, boom, boom.
So he did, he squashed it all.
You guys go away, drop the whole fucking case, it's over.
So he's like, so Pete's like, fuck,
I mean, we should have all been going to jail, to prison.
So, this is, this one right here, this is,
this happens later.
This is a transcript from Mark Farcione.
Where Farcione actually in the transcript,
exhibit, this exhibit 10, in the transcript,
he says, he actually talks about how he's a,
you know, playing a big Coke dealer,
how they had like a lab set up over there,
over there in Beverly Hills, Sunset Boulevard,
Sunset Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard.
Says it three times, he's probably coked up.
All right, he goes, and he says that,
he says basically that he switches it a little bit.
He says that Ellenberger came to me,
because keep in mind the deputies and the agents
and everybody later, they are hearing what's going on.
So when they come to talk to him, he admits,
yeah, yeah, something happened like that,
but that's not what happened.
And he basically says, look, Ellenberger asked me
to sell him some kilos of Coke.
He gave me $100,000 and I ripped him off for the $100,000.
I mean, he tells him, I ripped him off for the $100,000.
Where's the one where he says, why would he admit it?
Because he's being, they're saying he was ripped off,
he ripped off 300,000 and a whole bunch of ice.
He's saying, no, no, no, that wasn't it,
that wasn't it at all.
He also talks about Aria.
We'll talk about Aria in a second.
Trying to think of where he says,
shit, it's actually pretty good the way he says it too, damn.
Oh, here it is.
He says, that's, I just told you, I told him,
it's better than getting busted, you know, the lost money.
It's basically, you know, I fuck, I took the money,
I shouldn't have taken it, but I did, fuck.
That's his words.
I'm saying, he tells him, because you have to read
the whole thing, they're like, they're badgering him.
Oh, you did this, did you have a badge?
I didn't have a badge, you didn't have a badge?
You didn't tell people this?
You're like, no, no, what about the money?
We know you took the money, he's like, fuck it.
He just fucking starts, okay, I took the fucking money
and he admits it, I shouldn't have, but I did.
But he downplays it to a hundred grand.
He downplays it to a hundred grand
and they even ask him, did Bararo know?
And he goes, yeah, I kind of, they go, so he knew?
And he's like, yeah, how'd you tell him that?
And he's like, well, you know, I kind of eased it in.
Wow.
The transcripts, the guy's such a fucking clown.
I mean, he comes off like, anyway.
So this, I'm trying to think, this is, I mean,
this basically, so that's him admitting,
he also talks about, well, there's other stuff
he talks about, I don't know if I should put that aside,
fuck it, anyway, I'm not worried about it.
It's on the website.
You gotta read that, it's just funny.
Yeah.
So all these PDFs are on the website?
Yeah, everything's on the website.
Not my website on it, the website is devalexposedexhibits.com.
Okay, I can put a link to that as well, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, this is, in here, he talks about
how everybody thought he was law enforcement,
but he never told him he was law enforcement.
Of course, I've also got about six other statements
where he showed people his badge and gun,
his FBI badge and gun, so it's like, come on, what do we do?
So what are these, are these transcripts,
what are these taken from?
Like, are these transcripts, are these from phone calls,
are these from?
No, no, no, these are, these are when,
when this whole thing falls apart,
eventually the, you know, there's homicides.
Homicide detectives come in, FBI agents come in,
they start interviewing people.
Yeah, okay, these are from interviews.
Right, so they're all definitely interviews.
So, do you remember, so what happens is they,
they made the phone call, they make the thing go away.
A few months and months later,
they end up, Ellenberger bumps into
Farshione and Barrero at the opening
of the Hard Rock Cafe in Vegas, right?
Cause Ellenberger's a big gambler.
Yeah.
So he bumps into him and they have a conversation
and Farshione's there with like some porn star.
If you actually see the thing,
I actually have the girl, woman's name,
I have a little thing, I put porn star.
So, you can look her up.
So, and he made, and every time one of these,
every time he does one of these,
he makes sure to tell the, the agents.
Yeah, I was with So-and-So, she's a porn star.
So.
He likes to throw that out there.
Two bags.
So, yeah, so he meets them and they see him
and they're a little nervous,
but he goes up and he talks to him and he says,
listen, he goes like, what's going on?
He says, look, we're actually working on
trying to bust this guy, but we want to rob him.
Can you give us some ice?
So now he's asking him for ice and he goes, yeah,
and Ellenberger goes, yeah, I can get you some,
some fucking ice.
So he gets him some ice because he's like,
he thinks to himself, you know,
doing a lot of shit.
It's good to have him on his side, right?
So, it's good to have a dirty agent in your,
in your pocket.
Right, all day.
Right, so that's what, in this one,
he talks about, yeah, he talks about meeting him
at the Hard Rock Cafe, you know, months and months later.
So, they end up, so he ends up,
he ends up, starts to kind of deal with them again.
And what happens is, everyone's periodically,
I, you know, that's this in the book,
somebody will get busted.
So they get busted or somebody's getting indicted
and these guys will give, will come to them and say,
look, we're dealing with this guy.
Is he cool?
And they'll, he'll call Farshione,
we'll call Barrera, Barrera will come back and say,
now the guy got busted like three weeks ago,
he's working with, he's working.
Oh yeah, he's already talking to us.
Yeah.
So they stopped dealing with him.
So, at one point,
Aria, which Aria was a drug dealer,
he was supplying ecstasy.
And I think, I don't know if he eventually starts doing,
dealing in ICE or not, I can't recall,
but he was definitely, I have a transcript
where they say he's a drug dealer.
Several people say he's a drug dealer.
And so what happens is I want to say it's his cousin
gets busted with a bunch of ICE.
He gets just red-handed busted.
So he gets busted and they contact,
they contact Farshione and they explain,
hey, look, this guy, he got busted.
When can you, can you fix it?
And although Pete's like,
I don't know what ultimately happened.
I know that Aria was,
they were trying to work it out with them
where they were going to pay him.
And so here he says, did they call you about Reza?
He says, yeah, called me about Reza.
Who called you?
Pierre, Roussini, sorry, Roussini called me and asked me.
AKA Pete.
Yeah, yeah, if I could do anything.
Pierre, Pete, Roussini.
Right.
When Reza got busted, collect information,
when Reza got busted and it goes on,
he talks about how if there was anybody,
he could pay off to get him out
and he said he'd look into it
and that sort of thing.
He was like, you know, I looked into it
and he never really says exactly what happened
but Pete said, I don't know exactly what happened.
He goes, but I do know that about three or four weeks later,
Roussini, or Reza walked out of jail
and was never charged or got dropped.
So once again, you know, something happened,
they just paid him, they get out, get off.
And Pete said, they're regularly giving him 30,000,
100,000.
Fuck.
So when these guys start getting,
so this is, what is this one?
So at one point, you know, Pete has a buddy.
Roussini has a buddy.
Let's just stick to Pete.
Yeah, let's just call him Pete.
Yeah, that's fine.
Pete, Roussini.
I've caught on to it at this point.
I can go with Roussini, I can do it.
Whatever you wanna do, everyone knows by now.
Okay, so.
Pete, Roussini.
Roussini gets busted at one, not busted,
he gets like arrested, he's being indicted
in a few different jurisdictions.
He gets arrested one day,
he gets thrown in jail.
You know, the little.
Is this during the rate that where they tried
to rob the guy's house,
when they think they stole from Ellenberger,
they tried to, they stole a bunch of shit from Ellenberger
and they go back and try to rob
and they raid these kids house and they time up?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, Pete, yeah, Pete was always like,
you had to, that whole thing was funny
because I kept saying, okay, well during this home invasion,
he was like, stop calling him.
The home invasion, yeah.
He just stopped calling it a home invasion.
I go, why?
I go, it was a home invasion.
He goes, first of all, he said, I stayed in the car.
Yeah, he was the getaway driver.
Yeah, he goes, I wasn't involved in a home invasion.
He said, this was Ellenberger, hired a bunch of guys
that went in, it was a burglary.
And I go, Pete, they kicked in the front door
and they tied some guys up and they went
and they were looking for drugs.
I go, that's a home invasion.
He goes, there was no such thing as home invasion there.
He said, please stop saying home invasion.
It's really making me feel uncomfortable.
He said, I wouldn't be involved in a home invasion.
I said, yeah, but a strong on our burglary?
And he goes, he goes, I waited in the car.
Still a part of it.
That's like the guy that says,
hey, I know these guys that are robbing banks.
How do you know?
Well, because I'm the getaway driver.
Yeah, just a getaway driver.
So anyway, he ends up getting arrested.
No, no, that one, he actually, that whole thing,
he actually pleads it out and gets put on probation.
This is later.
Later, he's just being, he's just getting named
in different conspiracies and he's getting indicted
in a couple different jurisdictions.
They're looking for him.
So at some point he gets arrested.
You gotta read the book for the exact dates
and what happens.
He gets arrested.
So at one point he gets arrested.
Well, Racini has a friend who's a, he's a police officer.
He calls, so he's been arrested, he's thrown in jail.
He calls the police officer and he says, hey, listen, man.
He said, can you call my buddy Mark Farcione
and tell him where I'm at
and he needs to get me out of jail.
So he calls Farcione, Farcione does something.
Obviously Farcione calls Barrero
because Farcione's a fucking informant.
He can't call the local sheriff's department and say,
that's my buddy, let him out of jail.
Calls Barrero, Barrero probably calls somebody else
like one of his superiors, one of his other buddies
because Barrero's not even in.
Farcione can't make anything happen without Barrero.
Right.
So he makes a phone call, he calls back.
Pete walks right out of jail.
They release him.
This is a declaration from this guy.
Is it Marcius?
I don't know.
Anyway, that's his declaration where he explains
that Pete called him from the jail.
He made a phone call.
He called Mark, Mark said he'd take care of it.
Pete walked out of jail.
Wow.
And that back then, Pete had already,
look at the first paragraph,
Pete had already told him that he knew an FBI agent,
a dirty FBI agent.
He had already told him that.
So keep in mind, once again, this has been going on.
Dirty agents, I'm paying them off.
Everything's going good, it's going smooth.
I get arrested, I go to jail.
Nope, they make a phone call, they get me out.
My buddy gets busted, they do a couple of things.
He walks out.
I need to know who I'm dealing with.
Is this guy a snitch?
You know, I don't know.
Can you check out this guy?
Hey, here's his name.
Sure, yeah, you know what?
Don't deal with him.
These guys have the hookup.
Right, big time.
Yeah, they're just, it's insane.
They're fucking rolling.
Yeah, they got it all.
And at the same time, Mark Farsion, and what was the other
guy's name, Bararro, those guys are raking in cash
from these guys.
They're robbing people left and right.
They're just extorting these drug dealers for so much money.
It's ridiculous.
Right, right.
So they're playing both sides.
This is a guy named, this is a guy named Meacham.
OK, Meacham, when he ultimately gets interviewed
a couple of years later, he talks
about how he met Rossini, he knew Rossini,
he knew Rossini was dealing with a dirty, a corrupt,
a corrupt police officer working, he was working with him.
And it says Rossini had once informed Meacham
that if he was ever arrested, this police officer
could help him out, but it would cost $100,000.
I mean, that's obviously his two FBI agents, buddies.
And possibly another guy, which is this other guy,
Blum, that we don't mention much,
but he's also, the only reason I think he's definitely
involved is because there's different jurisdictions.
So if you want to know what's going on this jurisdiction,
you have to call over there.
Well, Blum's here.
Blum's the one who's helping him here.
And then when they all end up getting investigated,
all of these guys take early stress disability.
Well, so does Blum.
Same time.
Take it, take it.
Early stress disability.
Stress disability.
I'm stressed.
And all three take the same exact thing.
Absolutely.
Well, not all three, because Farshion's just a fucking.
Well, Farshion's not.
He doesn't work for the FBI.
He's just a.
Right.
He's just a two-bit biker thug.
Right.
So this, OK, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, OK, so.
All right, so let's stop now.
So what happens is, you read the book, so you know.
Ellenberger is, he's in desperate straits, right?
He's had a couple of bad things happen.
He's lost some money.
He's gambling debts are out.
Just fucking outrageous.
He's been indicted in multiple jurisdictions.
Feds are looking for him.
Pete said, man, they were, they had him under so much.
He's on the highway to hell.
Yeah, he's, he knew he's in a lot of, lot of trouble.
What happens is he ends up getting himself indicted out
of Hawaii.
So Barrero and Farshion tell him, hey, you've been indicted.
Matter of fact, at one point, they go to ship some,
some drugs, like they have a drug courier.
And Farshion calls the guy up and says, calls up Ellenberger
and says, don't, and, and, and Russini and says,
don't let the guy go.
They're waiting for him.
Like stops it.
So they say, look, there's an indictment.
Bunch of people are indicted.
He, he tells Ellenberger, you know, give me X amount of dollars.
I forget what it was, how much it was.
But this much money, I'll give you the whole list.
OK, so he calls them up and he gives them the whole list.
Barrero actually admits that.
So Barrero, in Barrero's, one of Barrero's statements,
he tells, yeah, I gave him, I gave him the list of people
that were indicted or had been indicted.
In exchange for the money?
Yeah, in exchange for the money.
And he was one of them.
So they go to him and they say, look, maybe you
ought to consider cooperating.
So he says, OK, I'll think about cooperating, definitely.
Well, what happens in the meantime is he's
dating this girl named Jenny Braybrooks.
They end up breaking up.
They break up because she finds out
that Ellenberger has been cheating on him.
And I mean, he's been cheating on her forever.
It's just nothing stopping this guy.
So she'd catch him sometimes.
He'd lie his way out of it, you know, deny, deny, deny.
Well, anyway, according to Pete, what ends up happening there
is they figure out somebody is telling Jenny what's
happened that he's cheating.
So they don't know who.
Ellenberger has no clue, but she's not having it.
She's done with him.
Well, so one day, Pete and Ellenberger go over to Arya's
house.
So they go to Arya's house and they say,
and they stop because they're waiting for a call.
Remember, you have to page somebody.
There's no phones.
There's not cell phones, really.
So they page this.
Well, there are cell phones, but there are these huge things.
Right.
You page somebody and call from a later line.
Guy's got a pager.
So they page this guy who's going to supply him
with some meth or something.
I forget.
It's like we were in middle school.
Yeah.
So they page him and they're waiting at Arya's house
for the phone call.
They're sitting there, they're playing games and goofing off,
playing Atari or whatever you have back then.
Playing Snake.
Right.
So what happens is the phone rings,
but they don't answer it.
It's not their phone.
They let it go to the answering machine and a voice comes on.
It says, oh, Arya, I had such a good time last night.
You're so wonderful.
The flowers are beautiful.
Thank you so much.
I love you so much.
You're the best.
And it's Jenny.
And it's Jenny.
It's Ellenberger's ex-girlfriend.
Yeah.
And so he realizes Arya is the one who's
been telling her that I've been fucking around.
And so he's just devastating.
So now Arya's hitting it.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
They get married.
She moves in with them.
They get married, the whole thing.
So he's just like, he's distraught.
So he's driving around.
He's found out.
Does he call him out when he hears the message?
No.
You know what he does?
He actually sets the machine so that they don't listen to it.
They said it.
So Arya doesn't even have a clue.
So when Borrero and Farshione kind of come around and say,
look, you've been indicted and you have to cooperate,
he says, I'll give you Arya.
I'll give you Arya.
Arya and this other big time drug dealer,
neither of which he can probably really give them.
Talking about Estes?
No, no, not Estes.
This other guy named Robilus.
OK, OK, OK.
So I'm trying to limit the amount of names.
Got it.
So another big drug dealer.
OK, there's so many fucking names in the story.
It's crazy.
So he says, OK, so I'll give you Robilus and this guy.
So he starts naming guys.
And of course, Arya is the one.
He really wants to give up Arya.
He wants Arya bad.
So well, somehow or another, Arya finds out.
So what ends up happening is one day, Pete's out.
He's out.
He's partying.
Nason finds out that.
Who's Nason?
Nason is a guy that was basically Ellenberger's
kind of do-boy.
He was a young kid.
He wanted to be an actor.
He's like 22, 23 years old.
Real good looking guy.
Comes to LA, wants to be an actor.
He's going on auditions.
And in the meantime, he's kind of Ellenberger's do-boy.
Like, hey, go wash my car.
Hey, do this.
And he's giving him money.
He gets free drugs and whatever.
He gets to travel with them and Arya pays for everything.
But he's just kind of his assistant.
And so he finds out that he gets angry at Ellenberger
about something.
And it's convoluted.
It's one of those things.
It's like this and this.
He gets pissed off at him.
One, he knows also that he's cooperating.
And he's going to cooperate against Arya.
He knows Ellenberger's cooperating.
Yeah, what did I say?
I'm just trying to make it clear.
Nason knows that Ellenberger is planning on cooperating.
He hasn't done anything yet.
But he's planning on cooperating.
And he's going to give up Arya and several other people.
Nason feels really pissed off about that.
There's a lot of other stuff.
Ellenberger at this point is just kind of a jerk to everybody.
He's always, he's entitlement issues.
He's short man complex, the whole thing.
Douchebag, yeah.
So he goes.
So Nason ends up going to this club
where Racini's dancing with his girl.
He comes up.
He's like, that motherfucker.
I'm going to fucking beat his ass.
He's like, I'm going to fucking kill this motherfucker.
And he's like, bro, I'm with my girl.
What are you doing?
He's like, we'll talk about it later.
We'll talk about it later.
He's like, fuck this motherfucker.
So he leaves.
Somebody, I forget who Alonzo.
Somebody comes up to him, another one of the players
comes up and says, hey man, Nason.
He's like, Nason left a while ago.
He's like, I said he was going back to the place.
And so Racini is like, you know what?
Fuck, I don't want these guys.
They'd been in fights before.
Fist fights.
So he's like, fuck.
So he goes back, goes up, goes back to the condo,
goes upstairs, goes and finds him.
And everything's fine.
Nason's there playing game.
Arya's shaving or whatever.
OK, fine.
So he leaves, hangs out with his girlfriend.
The next day, he comes back, walks inside.
Wait, wait, Arya's dead.
I mean, I'm sorry.
Shit, Ellenberger, thank you.
He goes back to the condo.
Ellenberger is there.
Everything's fine.
Nason's there.
Ellenberger's there.
Everything's fine.
So he says, OK, everything's fine.
No sort of confrontation at all.
None.
So he leaves.
He said the next day, though, I
spend the night with my girl.
I come back the next day.
I walk in.
So he walks in.
Ellenberger's dead.
He's laying in the middle of the bedroom,
one of the bedrooms, dead.
He says his neck was twisted in a way that he said it.
He snapped.
As soon as I saw it, it was very unnatural the way he said it.
I was like, immediately I knew, oh my god, he's dead.
He's like, I ran.
I tried to fucking wake him up.
Are you OK?
He's like, but immediately I realized he's dead.
Yeah.
So he immediately calls Farsion.
First thing.
First thing calls Farsion, because he's got a dead body.
His best friend is dead in his meth lab.
I can't call the police.
Right.
I have a life sentence in meth right here.
You don't have to mention the money and everything else.
Can't call the police.
That's not an option.
No.
So he ends up calling.
So he calls Farsion.
Farsion, apparently he said it sounded like he already
knew what was going on.
Come to find out later, of course,
Nason had, he said, Nason says they got into a fight.
This is one of many versions, Nason has said, by the way.
So they got into a fight, and he ended up breaking his neck.
He said, but it was probably broken.
Strangle him, snap his neck.
He probably got in the head a lot, snapped his neck,
whatever it was.
He killed him.
So Pete doesn't know what to do.
Nason's no fucking help.
He's a kid.
But the point is is that Nason, if you look at all the phone
records, and you read the phone book,
Pete calls him, Nason calls back, he calls Arya.
Arya calls Escobozer, or someone or Alonzo.
Alonzo calls Ellenberger's phone,
and it lets it ring, and ring, and ring, and ring,
because they're trying to figure out if he's dead.
Yeah, that part was confusing to me.
That part was confusing.
Yeah, because they're trying to figure out,
is he really dead?
Nason just said he's dead, but we don't know if he's dead.
Arya doesn't want to call.
So he gets this guy to call, never answers.
So OK, fine.
So in the aftermath, they end up, Pete ends up
calling this guy named Harrison, right?
What's Harrison's first name?
I don't remember how Harrison got into this story.
Yeah, well, because he was a drug dealer,
and somebody knows somebody, so he calls Harrison.
He said to be honest, he said, we called a bunch of people.
He's like, we called.
He said, nobody wanted to help us.
Is Harrison one of the guys who got disposed of his body?
Yeah, he calls Harrison.
Harrison says, I'll come with a couple of guys.
It's going to be this much money.
I'll get rid of the body.
So they come.
They dump Ellenberger's body.
Package up the body.
They dump the body in a dumpster,
and it ends up getting, they never find it.
No, no, the other guy gets dumped in a dumpster, too.
They're both in dumpsters.
Yeah, but one guy gets found, one guy doesn't.
Los Angeles dumpsters.
Yes, you never know what you'll miss
when you're disposing of bodies.
You've got a whole bunch of desert out there,
they're lazy.
Yeah, just throw it in a dumpster.
Right, throw it in a dumpster.
You've got a 50-50 chance.
Yeah, right.
They wrap them up in a, what do they wrap them up in?
It'll be real quick.
Wrap them up in a sleeping bag.
Sleeping bags.
Right, and what's so fucked up is that Pete,
like whenever I would say,
Oh shit, I just fucking hit the camera.
Yeah, I don't think you moved it.
What's messed up about it is that we would be
in the library at Coleman,
and Pete and I would be asking questions,
and I'd say something like,
we'd be arguing back and forth or joking around,
and he'd say something,
well, what do your co-definiton say about you?
And I'd go, listen, all my co-definitons are alive.
And he'd look at me and he'd go,
and he'd look at me and he'd go, fuck.
He'd go, all I did was help move the body.
And I was like,
That's it?
Of course, you got all these other inmates around going,
what the fuck did he just say?
And I was like, stop fucking saying that.
You need to stop saying that.
It doesn't help your case.
No.
That's not the kind of thing that you come on.
You can't say that and come off well.
No, no, no, no.
So anyway, so yeah, we've got phone records
of all of these guys calling each other back and forth,
back and forth.
Right after they found Ellenberger dead.
Right.
We got Aria's pager.
You have the records of them calling Farshione.
Calling Farshione, calling Barrero, where Barrero calls.
Do they have a direct line to Barrero?
Oh yeah, Pete's called directly called the task force.
Oh God, okay.
And talked to him for like five minutes, 10 minutes.
So if Barrero's like,
Oh, I've never spoken to that guy.
He's called you five fucking times in the last two weeks.
He didn't talk to you for 30 seconds.
So we have phone records right after you found
your best friend, fucking crystal meth dealer dead.
You called an FBI agent right after that.
Right, right.
Records of that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
These are the records.
Yeah, Aria's pager, Farshione's pager, Barrero's pager.
But if you keep going,
Barrero's office at B&E right here.
That's these right here.
Okay.
And they have the duration.
This was 12 minutes, 22 minutes.
Anyway, okay.
So this goes on and on because the only reason,
the reason this is important is that basically
when the homicides start to get investigated
and there's a link to the actual agents,
these guys tell the homicide detective,
Oh, we haven't talked to him in months.
Nah, it's been four or five months.
We haven't talked to him since we saw him in Vegas
or wherever.
Yeah, yeah, no, no.
Little shit.
I got phone records.
Well, there's a lot of phone records here that says,
you know, so.
That's weird.
Phone records.
That's super weird.
That happens.
But keep in mind too, back then,
like you wouldn't be that stupid now, would you?
Because you know immediately, you know,
oh, fuck that, they'll grab my phone.
They'll do this.
They'll just go on the computer and figure it out.
But back then, look at these phone records.
That was a process to get those.
This is like, you know, dot matrix and shit, you know,
they could purge it once it's gone.
You know, nothing's gonna be gonna disappear.
So, okay, so once again, aria cell.
Okay, so.
I'm gonna put this aside too.
So here's what happens is Sidney,
oh yeah, this is the one.
So after that happens.
We're shuffling through documents here.
Okay, I'm sorry.
No, it's okay.
I'm just trying to make the people who are listening
and not watching the video
so they understand what's going on.
Oh yeah, okay.
So, you know, so keep in mind too,
later you're gonna realize everybody blames Racini.
First they all say he shot him.
He shot Ellenberger.
Ellenberger was never shot.
Right.
Everybody, even when they eventually get the guy.
And all the documents say shot, shot.
All the guys are saying, no, no, he shot him.
But then they were found in the body,
so how would they know?
Well, because when Nathan pleads guilty.
Yeah.
Why would you say that?
Nathan said he choked him.
Nathan says he personally choked him to death.
Remember, we know he broke his neck, right?
We know he choked him to death.
So ultimately, though, I mean,
even though everybody points at Racini,
when ultimately, Nathan finally says, yes, I killed him.
They say, okay, well, would you shoot him with?
Where's the body?
He goes, no, I didn't shoot him.
I choked him to death.
Same thing Racini's been saying the whole time.
He wasn't shot, he was choked to death.
So who made up the whole shot?
Okay, we're getting to that.
Yeah, yeah.
We're getting there.
But the murders look the same,
like it's the same person.
Got it, got it.
So this, so right afterwards,
if Racini shot him,
and he's this cold-blooded murderer, right,
that he killed him because he knows he's cooperating,
so he killed him.
That's what everybody says.
He's killed him, he killed him because he's cooperating,
and Racini was afraid he was gonna cooperate against him,
so he shoots him and gets rid of the body.
Well, that's the case.
This woman here, when Pete goes to see,
to see Wayne Harrison, right?
This is his girlfriend who says that Wayne tells her
that Pete had just found his friend dead,
and she says specifically that Pete looked very sad,
that he looked sad, confused,
and he has to talk to Wayne alone,
and then Wayne came back and told her
he just found his best friend dead.
I gotta get rid of the body.
So that's what, so if Pete's this cold-blooded
murderer, he walks in there practically in tears,
because he just found his best friend dead.
Wow.
So what happens, so after he finds him dead,
and he calls Farshion, what plays out after that?
Like, what comes after that?
Everybody starts saying that he went to Mexico.
I don't think I really mentioned that.
They say that Ellenberger went to Mexico.
Ellenberger went to Mexico.
Whenever somebody asks, they're like,
oh, yeah, yeah, no, he's cool, he's down in Mexico,
he's in Mexico, everybody's saying Mexico, Mexico.
Keep in mind, too, people start,
your family starts looking for you,
but there's no body.
And this is a guy who would take off to Brazil,
which he'd done with Pete.
I have pictures of them in Brazil.
He goes, because Pete's, he's Brazilian,
so they would go to Brazil and be there
for two or three weeks, and these are not guys
that are keeping in touch with anybody.
They're just doing whatever they wanted.
They're living, they got a ton of money there.
They're risking it.
Whenever they want.
So, this is a guy that Pete says,
this guy, Sidney Berman, says that he knew Pete,
he knew Rossini, and Rossini had told him,
if he ever got in trouble, he knew a dirty FBI agent.
Told him that he had ripped him off,
go, that took dope and money and let him go.
He stated that Rossini said that the federal agent
could get a list of informants that the agent was crooked
and would do it for money.
And this is a guy, keep in mind, he's not in trouble.
He's just young guy shooting the shit,
yeah man, I know a fucking different guy,
I know an agent, he'll check that guy out for you.
Give me the number, he makes a fucking phone call,
boom, boom, boom, give me a couple grand,
yeah, he's good, you can deal with him.
So, this is just dirty agents.
Well, the only reason I keep harping on it
is because later, the government's like,
it's all bullshit, no, no, they're not dirty agents.
No, it's all bullshit, it's not true.
Okay.
There's a lot of paperwork that points to otherwise.
Paperwork says otherwise, a lot of guys walking out of jail,
a lot of cases getting busted, a lot of,
and why is Pete telling everybody,
this guy ripped me off and stole all my fucking money?
I checked Brero's bank account.
That's right.
So, at some point, he starts dealing with another guy
named Lance Estes.
Okay.
All right.
And who is Lance Estes?
He's a drug dealer out of San Francisco.
Okay.
So, Estes works out all the time, he's a big guy,
good looking guy, they're all fucking good looking guys,
they're all driving Porsches and Ferraris,
and it's ridiculous, the amount of money,
I mean, they're superstars, they're all rock stars,
they're all working out, and it's like,
what would you do if you were making $100,000 a month
that had nothing to do in tons of drugs and women?
A maniac.
Yeah.
So, these guys are maniacs.
Let alone you're in your early 20s.
Right.
So, these guys are maniacs.
So, he explains what ends up happening is,
Lance Estes is dealing with Rossini,
and he ends up getting busted.
He and his best friend get busted.
You know, they get busted by the local task force.
Well, when they get busted, they've heard about,
you know, they've heard about, you know,
they know Rossini, they've heard about this dirty agent,
so they contact him and Pete says to him,
look, he can get rid of your case for $100,000.
So, Lance is cocky, you know, Estes is cocky,
and he's like, you know, I'll give you $50,000 up front,
but I want to meet this motherfucker.
You know, he's a fucking tough guy.
So, they go, and they meet, and he meets him,
and he meets Farshione, and Barrero's across the street.
It's never confirmed that Barrero's across the street,
but we know from several different reports
that there was a guy, there was an FBI,
or there was someone across the street.
We assume it's Barrero.
Yeah.
So, he ends up telling him,
he ends up pulling a gun on Estes,
because Estes kind of gets in his face,
and he pulls out his badge and sticks a gun in his face.
He goes, motherfucker, he says, I'll put a bullet
in you right now, and I'll put this piece on you.
He goes, you see my partner over there?
He'll say he saw the whole thing.
You pulled it on me, and I fucking killed you.
He's now back your fucking ass up.
So, he's like, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
So, he realizes, okay, he's definitely an agent,
got this guy over here, he's got this, he's got the badge,
and he's, I'm done.
He's like, this guy's for real.
So, they set up a time, they give him 50,
they meet at a hotel, or a motel,
they meet at a motel, give him $50,000.
They, he gets a room here, he gets a room here,
they meet here, they come down,
they give the thing, it's a whole fucking spy thing.
Right. So, they give him 50 grand,
and these are reports of the guys talking about
how Lance told, Lance or Estes told him
that he had given $50,000 in cash to Rossini,
and that the money was a down payment,
and was going to blah, blah, blah.
So, this is him telling one of his buddies,
I gave Rossini, gave the money,
it's a down payment to get my case quashed.
Okay. So, we're good.
I just paid 50 grand down,
we're gonna get it taken care of.
What he doesn't realize is that the guy he's telling,
which is his best friend,
is already gone to the authorities and said,
I know we're supposed to be working with you,
but my buddy's still selling drugs,
and he's now dealing with that dirty FBI agent.
So, he's now double-crossed him.
Yeah.
So, now the authorities are like, whoa,
you double-crossed us, but you're in bed with an FBI,
or some FBI agent you just gave 50 grand to.
So, that helps.
So.
So, did he get his case squashed?
Did he end up paying him the full 100 grand
and getting that whole thing taken care of?
He does give him 100 grand,
but what ends up happening is,
I mentioned that Lance, what this?
Yeah, yeah, this is his girlfriend, by the way.
So, this is Lance, this is Lance Estee's girlfriend,
which is Monica Treo,
and she tells a grand jury later,
you mentioned that Lance had met with this
supposed FBI agent or whatever to get him off,
and he was convinced by credentials.
And she says, by credentials.
Did he get a, did he see a badge?
And she says, yeah, he saw a badge.
Okay.
Boom.
Gave him the money, got the money.
There's a dispute with Estee's,
I'll try and get really start cutting through it.
There's a dispute with Estee's,
between Farceo and Estee's.
Estee's basically tries to back out.
I want my money back.
You're out of your fucking mind.
So, they go back and forth, back and forth.
Well, what happens is Estee's ends up going to the police,
or it ends up basically saying that he's considering,
he finds out, because his,
the other guy told the agents,
that he's working with a dirty FBI agent.
It filters down to Barrero and Farceo,
and that Estee's has told somebody,
and they know he's dealing with it.
He just gave somebody 50 grand for a dirty agent.
So fuck, so they say the deal's off.
They get into a huge argument.
Racini puts it back together.
He says, okay, now it's another $100,000.
So give him 50, he's like, okay,
so I think he gives him another 50,
and then he's going to give him the last 50.
So, there's a huge dispute where they have a meeting,
and Racini's at the meeting, Harrison's at the meeting.
Farceo shows up.
Farceo says, Harrison's saying, let's just kill this guy.
Farceo says, talking about who?
Let's just kill him.
Talking about Estee's.
He's saying, let's just kill him.
Because he's now talking about testifying against,
Farceo and Barrero.
So he basically says, let's just kill him.
And Racini's trying to talk him out of it.
He goes to Farceo, and Farceo says, okay, kill him.
If he doesn't bring the money, kill him.
But don't kill him in San Francisco,
because he lives in San Francisco, kill him here.
Because Harrison's talking about going to San Francisco,
going to his house, killing him,
and killing his girlfriend if she's there.
Jesus.
Racini's saying, because Racini's like,
what if his girlfriend's there?
He says, well, she has to die too.
He's like, nah, nah.
And Farceo goes, nah, nah, nah, bring him up here.
If he doesn't have the money, kill him.
Because if he doesn't bring the cash, kill him.
Okay, fine, no problem.
So he flies up, he shows up.
He flies down from San Francisco to LA.
Yeah, from San Francisco to LA, they're all going to meet.
He's supposed to bring the money.
He says he's got the money.
Pete thinks he's got the money.
Racini thinks he's got the money.
Racini's saying, he's got the money.
Everything's going to be okay.
He's going to give him the money, it's good.
He gets there, they pick him up.
Wayne picks him up, they walk inside.
Everything seems like it's going to be okay.
He walks into the kitchen, Wayne pulls a pistol out,
shoots him in the back of the head.
Boom.
Estes is dead.
Estes is dead.
Now, right before they killed him,
wasn't there something about 86, code word 86?
They send a code back, so they page,
like the guys in the house, get pages saying 86, 86
on their pages, which to 86 to kill him.
Get rid of it.
So, one guy goes and starts up the motorcycle,
starts revving the motorcycle, so nobody's going to hear the...
So, why did they send the 86?
Because they realized he didn't have the $50,000 in cash.
He's got a cashier's check.
He brings a fucking cashier's check.
They didn't see cash, so they figured he doesn't have
the money, so let's kill him.
No, they see a cashier's check.
But they need cash.
But they didn't find the cashier's check
until after he was dead, right?
So, he tells them in the car.
Oh, he does, okay, okay.
I thought it was only after he was dead.
No, right then he knows, Harrison knows,
okay, well, he's got to die, we got to kill him.
So, that's when he pages these guys 86.
I'm coming and we're going to kill him.
Well, Pete actually goes in the garage.
I actually have a report from one guy who says,
after they got the 86s, that Pete went and hid in the garage.
So, he's kind of like making fun of them.
So, anyway, he ends up shooting them in the head.
In the back of the head, right?
In the back of the head, spinning over to like,
I don't know, get something out of the refrigerator
or something, I think, Pete said,
he shot them in the back of the head.
So, they wrap them up in the sleeping bag.
Keep in mind, they, Farshione said,
don't let them find the body.
Don't let them find the body.
Get the 50 grand, don't let them,
and if they kill them, if they don't have it,
then kill them and don't kill them in San Francisco
and don't let anybody find the body.
Because it works out pretty good
if they don't find the body.
Then he could just, he could be anybody,
he could have taken off.
He could be anywhere, right?
We don't know.
So, yeah, they wrap them up, they throw them in a dumpster.
And a homeless guy finds them like the next day or something.
And so, now the detectives come in.
And you know, there's a huge difference
between a regular cop and a detective.
So, a homicide detective is the elite.
You know, they're, they're methodical.
You know, you, you might want.
They're trying to solve the murders for real.
They're sort of, and nothing else matters.
Right.
So, they don't care who it is, who's involved.
I don't care if you sell drugs.
I don't care if you're a credit card count.
I'm not gonna fucking bust you for any of that.
That means nothing.
Right.
You get, everybody gets a pass when it comes to murder.
Just help me.
So, they come in.
This is the estimate murder.
Okay, Lance Estes was arrested.
So, this is, remember Lance was arrested.
He agreed to cooperate.
Okay, remember when we talked about that?
So, remember Lance, this is him being arrested
and then the government saying, Estes, Estes saying
he was arrested, you got arrested
and he was going to cooperate.
This is Michael Estes, who talks about how...
That's his brother?
This is his brother.
Okay.
Who also talks about him being arrested
and him, he was dealing with the guy.
He was dealing with someone named Blum.
He was dealing with an agent who was dealing with Blum.
Blum's the other guy I told you, he's a Bob Barrero.
He's another guy like Barrero in a different jurisdiction.
So, another FBI agent who's giving information,
supposedly, right, I mean, based on all this stuff.
So, he ends up getting killed.
His body's disposed of, it's over.
He's gone.
So, what do we got here?
I got a bunch of documents, they're just kind of random.
I'll just go through them real quick.
So, eventually, Pete ends up getting busted.
He gets arrested for something stupid.
And before they can get him out of jail,
before Farshion and Barrero can get him out of jail,
he gets ID'd and agent Alapa flies in from Hawaii
and tries to interview him.
And so, she tries to interview him
and he, Roussini states to the agent Alapa
that he had nothing to say to her.
He wasn't gonna speak to the government.
He was certain that Farshion was gonna take care of it.
He was 100% sure.
Keep in mind, they show up.
First, if you're smart and you're guilty
and you're looking at a lot of time,
you better cooperate.
You're not beating this in trial.
Not with these kind of numbers,
not with these kinds of people,
not with this amount of people.
Everybody around him is getting busted.
He's been indicted in multiple jurisdictions.
You're just done.
You better expect to fucking either die in prison
or come out when you're in your 60s.
So, or you cooperate.
He tells him, he tells her basically,
kiss my ass, I'm good.
Cause he knows.
He's gonna get on Jeff.
He's got all them guys.
Well, boys are gonna get me out.
They always do.
It's gonna cost me 100 grand.
I'm sitting on millions of cash.
I'm good.
I'm good.
So a lot of time goes by.
Kick rocks, lady.
Yeah, some time goes by.
And he's getting phone calls from Reza.
He's getting calls from Aria.
He's talking to guys on the phone.
I don't know if it's Aria.
He was talking to Reza.
He's talking to people on the phone.
The people are answering his phone calls
and everybody's telling him, hang tight.
They're working on it.
They're working on it.
Well, eventually he comes to the conclusion
after a few months.
Yeah, nobody's working on it.
Nobody's working on it.
Yeah.
He gets a new attorney comes in.
He tells the attorney what's going on.
But so he's like, just hold it off.
I'm gonna get this whole thing quashed.
The new attorney's like, are you fucking crazy?
Yeah.
What do you mean you got dirty agents?
Let me go tell the US attorney.
He's like, no, no, no, they're gonna get this whole thing
quashed.
They've got me knocked out of jail.
They've had me released a couple of times now.
I'm good.
They have my buddy like, oh, I'm good.
They're like, you're fucking crazy.
Well, weeks and weeks and weeks and months go by.
Fuck.
And he starts to realize, oh, fuck, I'm done.
Yeah.
So he says, so finally he comes to the conclusion,
OK, I got a real problem here.
Nobody is answering his phone anymore, by the way.
They stop answering his phone.
So when everybody stops answering your phone,
he gets a little desperate.
So he gets a little flipped out.
And he's like, fuck, he realizes he's done.
People, other guys are getting busted.
Guys are coming in the prison, in there.
So he says, OK, fuck it.
And he contacts his attorney.
He says, OK, I'll cooperate.
I can cooperate against some dirty FBI agents.
Well, they come in and they say, no, we're not in.
You could plead to a life sentence.
And that's it.
He said, and then we'll talk about it.
And he's like, oh, you're crazy.
What happens is it filters down through all the US attorneys
and everything to Barrero and Farshione.
And Farshione finds out, and Barrero
find out that he's talking about cooperating
against dirty law enforcement.
So Farshione calls everybody together.
He calls these guys that I'm trying not to use too many names.
He just calls everybody.
Everybody.
Michoam, he calls this guy, he calls that guy.
So whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
He calls everybody together.
And they all meet Harrison.
They all meet.
Everybody involved.
Nathan.
Even Nathan, who killed Ellenberger.
Killed Ellenberger.
Harrison killed Estes.
Nathan killed Ellenberger.
Calls everybody together.
The whole crew.
Family pow wow.
Right.
All right.
This is John Alonzo talking about how, well, wait,
you know what?
Is it better?
It's better like this because this is the one.
OK.
He meets at his girlfriend's house, right?
His girlfriend's name is Odalis Melendez.
So everybody meets there.
She's in her bedroom while these guys are all me.
And there's several meetings, but there's one meeting
particular she talks about where she talks about how
everybody got together.
She knows everybody, except for this one guy named John
something, another friend of Rossini's in LA.
She says he's from Beverly Hills.
Well, Pete says it's got to be Arya.
It's the only guy he knew that was a friend that
lived in that area.
So he probably came in and just said his name's John.
But he's assuming that's Arya.
So LA near Beverly Hills.
And this is Alonzo.
So she names all these guys.
And she can hear them discussing Rossini.
She hears them talking about Rossini.
So they're talking about like, well, how do you think Rossini
killed these guys?
Keep in mind, the two guys that actually killed them
are in the room.
So she's not quite hearing.
She's hearing bits and pieces.
Well, when they leave there, by the way, one of the people
that shows up, I told you this is Farshione.
Farshione shows up.
He has his little meeting.
And in the meeting, and this is exhibit 50,
by the end of that meeting, everybody
has agreed that Rossini committed the murders.
He killed both guys.
So Farshione goes in and says, there
are homicide detectives investigating.
They're wanting to talk to people.
They're going to be talking to you guys.
They're going to find you.
They're going to talk to you when they do.
You just need to tell them Rossini.
You don't have to tell them that you necessarily saw it.
But Rossini, or you heard, or whatever,
we need to point to Rossini.
He's right now trying to get us fucked up.
We get fucked up.
I guarantee you, you guys are all getting life sentences.
Keep in mind, they still think he's an FBI agent.
So we're telling you right now Rossini shot him.
That's what happened.
He shot him.
He helped dispose of the body.
He shot him dispose of the body.
That's what you're going to go with.
They said, OK, cool.
So everybody says, OK.
So immediately, when these guys get interviewed,
they immediately all start saying that, keep in mind,
Pete didn't have a gun.
Pete said, I'm not in their half.
He goes, I had a gun one time.
He's like, you know what I'm saying?
He's like, he's not a gun guy.
He was at that level dealing with those guys.
You don't really bring guns.
When you show it with 50 kilos of ice or something,
you don't bring a gun because you're just
in that much more trouble.
I'll be already dead.
It's usually you're dealing with.
You don't deal with people that you need to bring a gun.
So anyway, this guy talks about how he heard rumors
that Pete killed him, that the guy owed him money.
So Pete killed him.
What kind of gun did Pete have?
Did Pete have a gun?
Yeah, yeah, Pete had a gun.
Pete had a 9 millimeter, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
OK, so he talks about that.
This is one guy.
This is Alonzo says that.
Let's see, this is, so then eventually,
and I'm going to fast forward this because, oh yeah,
so this guy, Odessa Melinda, she says again that Harrison
said that he had dealt with the cleanup of the body.
He admits that he cleaned up, but he says,
Roussini killed him.
Like why and at what point did they go to law enforcement
and say that he killed these people?
They didn't go.
They know that law enforcement's showing up.
At some point, homicide detectives
are leaving cards on you.
You come home one day.
They're sitting outside your house.
They start getting picked up.
Mainly about Estes.
Right, about Estes, because Ellenberger's not.
No one knew what happened to Ellenberger.
Well, they kind of know, but they don't know.
No body.
It's just rumors.
They found the body of Estes, so that's.
So this guy here says that Ellenberger, they
called Ellenberger Beedle, by the way.
So it says Beedle in Beedle's room.
He says that after Pete killed him,
he saw the blood stains.
There was no blood stains.
He had his neck broken.
So there was a huge pool of blood from the gunshot
wound that didn't actually happen.
So all these guys start failing polygraphs, by the way.
The story's falling apart.
Right, Harrison, who shot Estes, says that Pete did it.
Pete did it, gunshot wound in the head.
This is a footnote.
Is that 70, 87, and 70?
Talk about it.
So I mean, see, the thing is, is that I could go fucking on
and on and on.
Anyway, so eventually what happens is Nason, did I
mention to, so remember how I told you Nason gives
several stories?
Yeah.
And this is where potentially Arya shows up, because what
happens is Nason says that Arya gave him $30,000,
and Nason, like, leaves town.
He gets caught in Florida somewhere.
I was getting caught in Florida.
So it's a place to go.
I left Florida.
So he says that Arya gave him $30,000.
This is like the day after he killed Eleanor.
So he gets $30,000.
Well, one of the things he also does is when he takes off,
he starts telling, he meets a bunch of girls,
several girls.
There's three of them.
I only printed out two of these.
He tells the girls, they're like, oh, so what do you do
for a living?
He tells them, I'm a hit, man.
I kill people.
Will you kill people?
Keep in mind, he's like 20, 22 years old.
He's just this fucking idiot.
So he's bragging about being a hitman.
This is these girls saying that someone gave him $30,000.
That Nason told her he killed someone for $30,000.
This one here, she doesn't say.
I don't think she says how much he got,
but did say when she said, what are you doing for a living?
He joked about being a hitman.
How are you making money?
He said, I'm killing people.
Ellenberger.
Fucking douchebag.
I'm an idiot.
So yeah, she says here, too, he was paid to commit a murder.
So he's telling people he's killing people.
Now, he later says, he also told,
but Pete said, the only thing he ever told me,
Pete says is that they got into an argument
and he choked them out and he ended up breaking his neck.
Pete had no clue he was paid to do it.
Yeah, Pete's like, I didn't find out later
till stuff starts coming out that people are saying,
he's telling them he killed the guy.
He's, I didn't know that Arya gave him 30,000.
I didn't know he told these girls
that he got paid 30,000 to kill him.
He's, I didn't know any of that.
He's, I found that out later,
just as people are filing motions and things.
Here's the thing also, keep my Pete's in prison now,
thinking I'm really in a bad spot.
Government doesn't wanna work with me.
Everybody's, nobody's bailing me out.
Nobody's answering my phone calls.
Guys that I know are getting arrested
and showing up here in the jail with me
that are on the conspiracies with me,
we're all staring at each other,
who's gonna cooperate.
Everybody's saying the same thing.
Oh, fuck that, I'm staying strong, bro.
Fuck them, yeah.
Everybody's singing them.
Yeah, you see your lawyer a lot.
Yeah.
You know, for a guy who's,
you keep going and leaving for your, to see your lawyer.
So, so eventually what ends up happening is this.
Ultimately, Nason ends up filing some paperwork
and in the paperwork, Pete gets the paperwork.
You have to understand when you,
you know, the cases are long,
so you learn things slowly.
People aren't talking to each other,
but as you can, if I can read your paperwork,
it helps give insight into what happened in my case.
So, Nason eventually files paperwork where he explains,
he explains about getting paid $30,000 from Aria.
He says for a drug transaction,
Pete says that's not possible
because we were the ones who were supplying all the drugs.
I wouldn't know if he was selling drugs, but whatever.
The other thing is, he says that he was called to a meeting
at Wayne Harris' girlfriend's house named Odalis Melendez,
and that there was a whole bunch of people there,
and that, and he names them all, if you know,
John Alonso, this guy, Dean Zirek or something,
George Merzik, Mark Farsion was there, Wayne Harrison,
bunch of guys were there,
and that he says specifically,
Farsion said that Rossini was cooperating.
He was an ungrateful bastard, I think,
somewhere they say this,
and that they need to put the murders off on him,
and Nason came there with like his two,
with three of his cousins.
He shows up with his three cousins,
so they're all there while this discussion's going on,
and Mark Farsion tells them
that they have to put everything off on Rossini,
Rossini killed him, Rossini shot him in the head,
blah, blah, blah, tells them all,
same thing that Melendez says,
same thing other guys say, there was multiple meetings,
and Nason gets so upset about it,
he doesn't like the idea of frame,
remember, he didn't like the cooperation thing either,
he didn't like Ellenberger was cooperating.
He doesn't like the fact that now these guys are saying,
we're gonna put it off on Rossini,
when he knows Rossini didn't do it.
But they're saying, look, you too, though,
that gives you off.
This guy's too honest.
Yes, yeah.
He's the kind of guy that.
He's the opposite of a shrinker.
Yeah, he's the kind of guy that ends up doing 25 years
for being so honest.
So, John Ellenberger, FBI, Farsion, Grand Jury, blah, blah.
So, in this is when he talked, in his 2255,
he talks about how he was brought in and told this,
and he didn't like the idea of it at all.
And so he takes his $30,000 and he takes off.
When he takes off, that's, you know, he takes off,
he eventually gets caught.
Well, so this is him saying, so we've got multiple people,
there's also several other people say these meetings occurred
that all these guys got together
and they all decided Rossini did it.
He shot him.
So, that goes on and on.
This is a copy of his three cousins who were there,
Scott, Scott, and Armadillo,
and they all give affidavits,
which say the same thing that they were at the meeting.
Who's three cousins?
Nathan's three cousins were there.
And they say they were at the meeting
with all of this group of guys
and they were discussing their legal strategies
and what was happening and that they,
and about some guy who basically killed somebody
and that he had shot them all.
So, you know, they don't really quite know what's going on.
Just we were there, this is what happened.
The FBI agent was there.
By the way, this is when Robert Mueller comes into the picture.
Okay.
So, Mueller, there was something called,
there was a Supretia prong.
There was this guy that ends up,
there's a whole thing about dirty agents in this office.
So, Mueller comes in to kind of clean up the office.
The Department of Justice says,
look, Mueller, we're gonna send you over there
to clean it up.
So, Mueller comes in, he fires a bunch of people.
Meanwhile, yeah, there's multiple cases like this
going on where there's dirty agents.
He's throughout the whole United States,
but even in this area, in his jurisdiction.
Oh, okay.
But they're in New York,
they're in Whitey Bulger is happening at this time.
Whitey Bulger is bribing an FBI agent,
I think agent Connolly or something like that.
So, you know, this is happening in multiple jurisdictions.
The Department of Justice is looking at it.
And this is during Mueller's reign.
The whole Whitey Bulger thing is during.
That's also during.
That was all investigated by Mueller.
Mueller was the, one of the assistant U.S. attorneys
or one of the, he was in charge of the task force,
one of the task force that was investigating Bulger.
So, he was involved in that, but, you know,
he's way up here and he just happened to be
one of the many guys in the chain.
I don't think he necessarily had anything
super to do with it.
There were allegations, but, you know, they're,
who knows?
All right, listen, I can only solve one thing at a time.
So, what ends up happening is.
Let's eat this elephant one spoon at a time.
One spoon full at a time.
So, this guy, okay.
So, this is a document where Mueller comes in
and they start asking for evidence.
So, now they've arrested, they've arrested Harrison.
They've arrested Wayne Harrison, the guy who killed Estes.
And they've arrested Frank Nason.
So, Nason's been arrested, Harrison's been arrested.
They are kind of joining forces and they're saying,
look, they're going with what's called a,
it's called a public authority defense.
Wherein they say, we thought we had authority
to do what we were doing.
And initially, keep in mind, at this point,
they failed their polygraph exams.
Everybody's failed, some of these guys failed
like three of them.
Okay, if you go on the website, you'll see
I've got one after another.
The story keeps changing, so they're like,
no, so and so, Pete killed them, okay.
Then it's, okay, no, Pete didn't kill them.
Harrison killed them.
I saw the blood.
No, I didn't see the blood.
No, he killed them.
No, this.
No, they keep changing, changing.
Every time they fail, eventually they come clean there.
And basically, as clean as they can.
Harrison killed them.
And, but it was Rossini who ordered it.
Can't say the FBI.
We can't say the FBI ordered it.
Because that would be a major fucking problem.
I've already been told.
So, it's somebody, and why would you say anybody ordered it?
Well, you have to say somebody.
Because if I'm Harrison and I say I killed them,
well, why'd you kill them?
Right.
Somebody told me to.
Somebody told me to kill them.
It's better for me to say that Danny told me to do it,
because then I get to cooperate against Danny.
So, you don't really want me,
because I wouldn't have killed them on my own.
Danny did it.
Oh, you got a card to play.
Right, so that's what happens,
is they all start pointing at Rossini.
So, this is the document where they start,
they go over Farsion's role,
they go over Borreiro's role,
they start explaining.
So, if you read this,
you start to realize very, very quickly
that they're focusing in on dirty law enforcement.
And this is what within weeks,
and this exact time is when Mueller shows up.
There's a huge article,
there's a new sheriff in town,
and Mueller's a new breed,
and he's young, he's younger then,
he's not young young,
but he's probably in his late 30s, early 40s probably.
So, he's coming in, he's gonna clean up the office,
no more this fucking blame shifting and dirty agents,
and he comes in, he reads this,
and it's another case about dirty agents
on a task force that we're over, fuck.
So, he comes in, he looks at it,
and then he is putting together a case.
So, he goes to Rossini, keep in mind,
at this point, they've now focused in on Rossini.
We've got all these people saying Rossini did it.
They're all willing to testify.
We got like eight guys ready to say Rossini did it
in some form or fashion.
We're talking about this guy saw blood,
this guy did this, this guy did that,
this guy's got a gun, everybody's saying he did it.
Pete knows he's screwed.
They, so bad it becomes a capital case.
They actually have a small, like a little trial,
kind of thing, they go to Washington,
Pete's attorneys go to Washington,
they have a little trial to decide
in front of, I think, Janet Reno to try and fight,
or try and figure out, can we kill Pete
if we find him guilty?
Can we execute him?
Right.
And they say, so they, Pete's lawyers lose that,
and they say, yeah, yeah, if you can prove all this
and he gets found guilty, he's gonna be executed.
So, now you're on death row.
You're one of the first people on death row.
The other people that were on death row at that time,
other than Rossini, it's Rossini, it's the Unabomber,
and it's Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber.
So, Ted Kaczynski, Timothy McVeigh, Pete Rossini.
Oh my God.
Didn't fucking do it, didn't kill anybody.
Didn't even do the murder, that's fucked.
Wow.
So, what ends up happening is, keep in mind,
he was, all the evidence they explain is that
Pete killed him, he shot him with a gun.
Did he shoot anybody with a gun?
It'd be different if you went and said I,
it was a conspiracy, you're telling these people
I shot him, and he loses.
He's gonna get executed.
So, okay, so, he comes back,
number of circumstances grow.
Okay, so, what happens is,
Mahler at this point, Pete pleads guilty.
They go to Pete and they say, listen,
he's trying to get him to plead like to a life sentence,
you know, first, and then they come back,
and finally they go back and forth,
the lawyers go back and forth, Mahler back and forth,
and what happens is, Mahler says, look,
here's what we'll do.
Now Pete knows all these motherfuckers
are ready to testify against me, I didn't do this.
So, I'm pissed, so that whole code thing,
I'm ready to cut everybody's throat.
So, Mahler says, listen, here's what I wanna do.
Mahler knows there's dirty FBI agents involved,
but he comes in and says, look, here's what we'll do.
We have Pete, we have Rossini plead guilty to 40 years
and I'll allow him to cooperate against these other guys
and we'll get his sentence cut significantly.
Mahler says that.
Mahler says that to Pete's attorney.
Takes a lot of convincing, but Pete's like,
I don't have a prayer, my parents come in,
they're like, look, what are you gonna do?
The guy, you know, come on, these guys are,
guilty or not, you're gonna be found guilty.
There's no doubt in anybody's mind.
It's on you.
Yeah, so Pete says, okay, goes to trial,
he pleads guilty to two counts of conspiracy
to commit murder and the furtherance of a drug conspiracy.
So, this is like a RICO case?
Well, he wanted it to be RICO,
but Mahler was insisting he had to plead guilty
to the murders.
You have to say you murdered him.
A specific murder, it can't be conspiracy,
it has to be straight up murder.
No, no, no, conspiracy to commit murder.
Oh, okay, got you.
So you have to say it was conspiracy,
you conspired to commit murder.
Okay, got it.
So finally he says, okay, he wants to say RICO,
but no, Mahler's saying it has to be for murder.
Keep in mind, he knows, if you say it's murder,
now it's on your record,
it's gonna be hard for you to unwind.
Right, to get that off, yeah.
So he goes in, and plus, his lawyers are saying,
definitely you want to do two counts
because the maximum they can give you is 20 years a piece.
So if they stack them, it's exactly 40 years.
You don't want to say RICO
because it could be even higher than that.
You know, so they're like, fuck.
So he goes in and Pete says, okay, yeah, did you,
yes, I was paying off an informant,
yes, I was paying off this guy, I was doing this,
did you, yes, yes, and what do you charge with this
and what do you plead guilty to conspiracy
to commit murder?
Okay, boom, bam.
40 years, he goes to Leavenworth.
Goes to Leavenworth, few months later,
Mueller shows up with this guy, Burroughs,
Bruce Burroughs, right?
So he shows up with it, which is the FBI,
he's over like the FBI, he's like the top,
one of the top dogs of the FBI,
he's over the whole task force.
These guys are all working for him, he knows him.
They come in, they meet with Rossini.
Mueller says, okay, these two guys are going to trial.
I need you to, you said you testify and he goes,
okay, okay, yeah, I'll testify, I'll testify.
He goes, okay, well, let's talk about this.
So they sit down and he says, okay, so when did you,
did you shoot the, shoot him?
He's like, no, I didn't shoot him.
So he didn't shoot him, he's like, okay,
but you told him to shoot him though, right?
I didn't tell anybody to shoot anybody.
What do you mean?
He goes, you just plead guilty to conspiracy to commit,
he's like, I plead guilty because you had like six
or eight guys that were going to say I plead guilty.
It's like, you don't think I'm going to testify to that?
So he's like, well, what happened?
So he explains what happened.
Well, there was this dirty FBI agent.
Mueller's been hearing this.
You've seen how many people are saying it.
This is a dirty FBI agent.
There's this guy, you know, Farceon, now Pete now knows
the guy is not, at this point, Pete knows, okay,
well, Farceon is not an FBI agent.
He's actually an informant, professional informant.
So he says, okay, I gotta take this out, that's hurting me.
So he says, okay, no problem.
So he goes, okay, he talks to him and he says, okay,
so what happened?
He said, I was paying him this, paying him that.
He's like, what?
They're both taking notes.
Mueller's taking notes.
Burroughs is taking notes.
Okay, so what happened?
Okay, this, this.
He's like, well, when did you do this?
When did you, so everything he's telling him,
Pete's unraveling his entire case.
As Pete thinks he's helping to cooperate
and tell Mueller what really happened,
he's actually destroying Mueller's case.
Because Mueller had a very simple case.
Right now it's all fucked up.
These guys were informants.
Pete didn't like that.
He was afraid they were gonna inform on him.
He told these guys to kill them.
They both killed them.
They got rid of the bodies.
It's a pretty simple case.
It has nothing to do with FBI agents.
Mueller didn't want it to have anything
to do with FBI agents.
This guy's on the short list to become Attorney General.
Yeah.
So he doesn't need this,
he doesn't need this shit storm that this would stir up.
This is another whitey bulger.
This is another,
shit, well, I forget the other guy's name.
Anyway, there's like a Sopretia prong.
This is another, this is another.
Sopretia prong.
Right.
This is another huge dirty agents.
The whole thing blows up and his name's attached to it.
He don't want that.
I'm here to clean this place up.
So he says, okay, so they,
he goes through the whole thing.
He starts explaining the whole thing.
This meeting takes place over three days.
Mueller actually leaves, goes back,
comes back for two more days with boroughs.
They take notes, everything.
Okay, he's telling them about dirty FBI agents.
Telling them about the murder.
Telling them about how it was ordered.
Telling them that Mark Farsion is the one who said to do it.
Not to do it in San Francisco, do it here.
Don't let them find the body.
Got the $50,000.
Tells them everything.
It's a devastated Mueller's case.
Yeah.
He then says to Mueller, or Mueller then at the end of it,
Mueller says, according to Pete, he shows him.
Mueller, one, Pete gives him, he's like,
yeah, but these guys haven't talked to you in this long.
Whatever.
What do you mean?
They say they haven't talked to you.
Pulls out the fucking records and says,
really, because I talked to him here.
I talked to him.
Pete has all the fucking phone records,
more phone records of all these phone calls
between these guys, boroughs pager, Farsion's pager,
this day, this day.
Right, right after the murders.
Right after the murders, way past the murders
where these guys say they haven't talked to him in forever.
So, goes through the whole thing and then-
Completely unraveled everything.
Unravels everything.
At some point, Mueller shows him a picture of Arya
and asks him about Arya, and he's like, that's Arya.
And he's like, yeah.
So, he realizes at that point that,
because now, by now, he's heard a lot of this.
He's now realizing he thinks that,
Mueller thinks that Arya killed Ellenberg,
had Ellenberg killed.
And Pete thinks, now thinks he killed, he had him killed.
Because he finds out that Ellenberg is now living with-
Arya.
Sorry, Arya is now living with Ellenberg's
ex-girlfriend, Ginny.
So, that's an issue.
So, he's now, so, Mueller essentially,
Mueller now knows that the FBI informant,
probably Barrero also,
asked Harrison to kill,
to kill Estes.
And that Arya may very well have killed.
Now, keep in mind, I say that because it's less,
it's less, it's kind of convoluted
because you've got Nason saying multiple things,
Pete saying, I never believed that,
Arya would have done that,
but you've got the documents, $30,000.
I don't know, it doesn't look good.
It's a hard time saying, you killed some,
I don't know, I know that the documents doesn't look good.
But Mueller, Pete said he definitely,
Mueller was like, look, we've had our suspicions for a while,
we showed him the phone records,
the phone calls from Arya, all these,
why is Arya involved in this whole thing?
Right.
So, that's what happens.
So, Mueller says, look, I'm bringing you back,
I'm gonna have you testify in front of the grand jury,
we're gonna indict these dirty FBI agents,
gonna get your sentence reduced,
and he signs an agreement with Pete,
well, he gives Pete an agreement,
an ironclad agreement that says
he will reduce his sentence.
Which never happens.
Never happens.
To no specific amount, just says he's gonna reduce it.
Just says he's gonna,
well, you can't tell what the judge is gonna,
like I can't tell you the judge,
I can tell you I'm gonna put in the motion,
I'm gonna put in front of the judge,
but I can't tell.
It's still a judge's decision.
Six months, he could do 20 years, we don't know.
So, he's like, I will put it in for sure.
They don't do that because what if you get in front of,
what if you get in front of a jury,
the first thing they're gonna say is,
will you promise anything?
Now, he's gotta say, yeah, I was promised.
I was promised he would reduce,
put in a motion to have my sentence reduced.
Right, that don't look good, yeah.
That you're just saying it, just get it reduced.
Typically, what they say is we will consider it,
substantial assistance, and they say,
well, I'm hoping this, but they said that
they weren't promising me and think,
no, no, he's gotta promise.
Yeah.
So, okay, so with that said,
Mueller goes back with all the notes
and they prepare a document called an FBI 302.
Okay, then this becomes important.
You've read the book, you know why,
because basically they take all these notes
and they created a 302, which is the official document,
the official record for the FBI,
which is supposed to be a clarification
and condensed version of an interview.
What's important?
I just told you about dirty FBI agents,
told you about payoffs, told you I did not
order the murder of anybody or conspired
to murder anybody.
Yeah.
They craft the 302, doesn't say a fucking thing about payoffs,
doesn't say anything about dirty FBI agents,
doesn't say anything about him denying anything.
So, with you and you read the 302,
it basically talks about drug transactions
and talks about a murder and it makes it sound
almost like Pete might have been involved.
Doesn't say he's like, he ordered it, but it's close.
It makes it sound like he's.
He's part of it.
Part of it.
So, what happens is Mueller prepares a document,
goes in to see Nason and Harrison and he convinces them
and I'm not gonna go into the whole thing,
but it's a whole thing where he basically goes in
and says, look, I got a 302 here and gives him the 302
and tells them all he's gonna fucking testify against you.
He's gonna say that he did order the murders.
These guys know he didn't order the murders.
So, now he's flipping it on you.
You go to there and start talking about dirty FBI agents
ordering murders, Rossini's gonna say he ordered the murder.
How is that gonna look like you're lying?
Yeah.
So, that's what happens.
These guys end up taking a plea.
They take a plea for 25 years of peace.
Knowing that that's, because they're terrified that Rossini,
because.
Who, that's Harrison and all those guys?
Harrison and Nason take a plea for 25 years for each murder.
They both get 25 years because Mueller's telling them
that Rossini's gonna testify against you
and he is going to say that he's.
Which is a straight up lie.
Straight up lie.
Right, so Mueller's just playing them.
Yeah.
And he's prepared a document
that basically supports you.
Right.
It's exactly almost the opposite of what Pete said.
Yeah.
So, Pete, when these guys plead guilty.
To what?
Oh, to the murder.
They plead guilty to commit murder.
Keep in mind too, when Nason comes in,
Nason says in his thing that Mueller,
that he was told he had to plead guilty to the murder.
And he says, of course that, oh, and both of them say,
they plead guilty and they plead guilty
that member of a conspiracy
and that they've been ordered to commit the murder by Rossini.
So now you've pled guilty.
So how does that look, make Rossini look?
Rossini now, now these guys are now saying,
you did order the murder.
Right.
Pete's never said he ordered the murders.
Yeah.
Mueller just planted those seeds.
Yeah.
Now it points back at you.
Now you're done.
What are you gonna do?
Oh, I didn't really, because these guys just pled guilty
saying that you did order them
and they played guilty to it and got 25 years apiece.
They did that because you said that you were gonna cooperate
and you were gonna say it.
Truth is, none of it.
It's a whole circle jerk.
And they walk into the whole thing and so they're done.
This all comes out later when Nason-
Fucking Mueller is just like playing a puppet show.
Right, exactly.
Damn, that's nasty.
So Nason later files, he files his 2255
where he specifically says that,
well, this is his plea where he says
he choked him to death poo.
Remember, so this is when Mueller realizes too,
Rossini's the only one who's saying choked to death,
choked to death.
He's saying everybody else is shot, shot, shot, shot.
When he finally gets him to plead guilty
and he talks to Nason, Nason says, I choked him to death.
Why does he decide to say that all of a sudden?
Well, because he's pleading guilty anyway.
He's like, I didn't shoot it.
Well, how did you kill him?
I mean, I killed him, but how'd you kill him?
I choked him to death.
Oh, shit, that lines up with fucking what Rossini said.
So now Mueller really knows Rossini killed him.
Oh, Jesus.
Everything this guy said is true.
That he was the truth.
But these FBI agents are dirty.
Right.
Everything is.
And he didn't order the murder.
Right, so, but they plead guilty,
they get their 25 years.
Based on Mueller's lie.
Based on that, yeah, so I got that document here
where he says, sorry, where Nason actually says,
at the direction of Rossini, that he killed him.
Yeah.
At Rossini's direction.
So this is,
Circumstance group.
So he prepares a document
where Mueller ends up preparing a document
for these other guys to try and he's,
remember, he's trying to convince them,
while he's trying to convince them,
he prepares a document that he provides them
where he specifically says that a number
of circumstances corroborate what Rossini told me.
There's lots of things that are exactly what he said is true.
So he's admitting in paperwork,
it says Robert Mueller right on it,
see what we got?
Robert S. Mueller the third, right there.
So he's got that.
Okay.
Where did you get those documents from?
Pete has all these.
He just had them all.
And you copied all of them?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, I had a guy in Unicor.
It would be expensive to copy these
since you don't make any money in prison.
So what you do is you get somebody in Unicor,
somebody who works in the factory
and you give him commissary
and then he sneaks the documents in his shirt every day.
He'll bring in like 50 at a time.
Keep in mind, I got 750 fucking documents.
So he goes in with like 200 documents strapped to him
like he's a fucking drug courier.
Jesus.
In his back of his pants.
Goes in, makes the copies and puts them in the back
and then he brings them back
and then you give him like a bag, a $3 bag of coffee.
Some ramen noodles.
Yeah, so for like.
So that's how you got all of it.
For like $100 worth of copies.
That's amazing.
I end up getting for like 10 bucks.
That's amazing.
Oh, it takes some time.
You have to be creative.
I imagine, yeah.
Nobody's helping you.
No help.
You're a magician, Matt.
It's a story in itself, really.
Yeah.
These guys are, you know.
Listen, this is another thing.
The guy who did it.
This is a guy, another guy wrote a fucking story for me.
No.
Yeah, he was the clerk in Unicorn.
It's a fucking great story.
He's a fucking young kid.
He was like a drug courier
and money's fucking moved to, it's a great story.
You could probably interview him.
Where's he?
In Orlando.
Does he really?
Oh, that would be cool.
Let's get him in here.
Bring him down here.
Looking kid, smart, young.
He was young as hell when he was doing it.
I mean, he moved to, he's an American.
Well, he's Mexican, but he looks like an Anglo.
But does he have a degree in fine arts?
There's no fine arts in the real fuck.
Doesn't mean that he's not creative.
He actually moved to Acapoco.
I mean, what a merit,
would you move to Acapoco and deal drugs?
I'm gonna move to Acapoco
and arrange fucking chipmints of drugs and all.
I mean, this is a kid, this balls.
Yeah.
Ball, I mean, that takes a lot.
Well, thanks to him.
We have all this fucking evidence.
Yeah, absolutely.
Appreciate it, buddy.
Thank you.
Okay.
So, okay.
So, Nason wants an amendment motion to vacate judgment.
So he's trying to, you know,
here's where Nason says,
like when I said how he kind of bamboozled them
into pleading guilty.
Here's where he says,
someone claims the government,
that was Mueller,
because Mueller was the government at that time.
He was the USA.
The government tricked Nason into pleading guilty
to the intentionally killing of John Ellenberger.
As a result, Nason pleaded guilty.
It goes on here to say where he says,
Coda Finnet, Rossini would testify.
He talks about how he says he was gonna testify.
Turns out, Nason then goes there and says,
turns out that was exactly not what he was going to say.
That Rossini was not gonna testify
that he had ordered the murder.
Wow.
Okay.
So, this is, oh yeah, yeah.
San Francisco does an about face.
This is an article about Mueller.
San Francisco office does about face
under tough US attorney.
That's Mueller.
What is an about face?
It means turn around.
They did a turn around.
He turned them around,
because they remember it was all corrupted, fucked up.
Yeah, yeah.
So, Mueller turned them around.
Okay.
And then guess what?
Clean the office up.
Clean the office up.
He got these guys to plead guilty.
Got that fucking guy Rossini.
He's never kicked out.
These two guys got 25 years.
He completely suppressed anything about dirty FBI agents,
although there wasn't an investigation
in the state into the agents.
And guess what?
Both of all,
Barrero and Blum,
the guys who were giving, probably Blum,
I like I said, don't know for sure,
but for sure, Barrero,
the guys that are giving all the information out,
they both took early stress retirement.
So, they both retired.
Barrero and Blum, both.
Blum, yeah.
Blum.
Both of them retired.
And the reason they take stress disability retirement
is that as an agent, if you retire,
you can be called to testify.
And you can't say, I'm not gonna testify.
You have to testify.
As if you take a stress disability retirement,
you then can plead the fifth
and say, I'm not going to retire.
Holy shit.
So, if you do get me into a jam,
I'm sorry, no, retire, I'm not gonna answer.
You can then say, I'm not gonna answer.
As you go, stress disability retirement, I can't,
I'm under stress, I'm fucked up.
Because that's the weakest link right there.
Those guys can plead the fifth.
Yeah, you can't force me to talk about this.
So, okay.
Mueller doesn't, he gets.
Mueller smart.
Mueller doesn't end up getting,
he doesn't become,
he doesn't become the attorney general,
like he was hoping, right?
Bush wins the election.
Mueller, Ashcroft gets named attorney general.
He gets like the supporting role to attorney general.
And then very, within a few months or something like that,
he, Mueller gets appointed to,
or nominated to be the FBI director.
And I only bring this up because I believe
that Mueller shifted the blame from the FBI to Racini, right?
I believe he shifted that blame.
I believe he covered up.
I think he didn't start the conspiracy, right?
Mueller didn't start the conspiracy.
The FBI, Blum, Barrero and Farshione
started the conspiracy.
They got the guy murdered.
They ended up, they ended up starting,
getting everybody together to frame Racini.
They did that, but Mueller ran with the ball.
He didn't turn around and do what he said he was gonna do.
He didn't indict these guys.
He just kept it going because it was in his best.
Why do you think he really did that though?
Do you think it was somebody above him
that was pressuring him?
Or do you think that was all and just.
I think it was him.
I think he's just.
Personal career.
Yeah, he wanted to look good, right?
How bad is it gonna look?
Look, I'm going about my job.
The moment I start saying dirty FBI agents,
jeez, people lose their job left and right.
These guys are retiring left and right.
All these guys that were involved in
in Bulger's case and in Salimi and all of these cases.
It doesn't look good.
These guys are immediately.
So it's gonna be a domino effect.
Right, you cannot be involved in that.
I'm about to be named attorney general.
Turns out he wrapped it up and didn't have to say anything.
I gotta wrap it up.
These guys got 25 years.
They did commit the murder.
They got 25 years.
This guy, Rossini, they're gonna reduce his sentence.
Who knows by how many, you know, so he's kind of,
I'm sure he justified it very easily.
He justified it, yeah, yeah, yeah.
These are bad guys.
Yeah.
They're drug dealers.
Fuck them.
They're not a U.S. attorney.
Right.
This is a top shelf guy.
So here's what he does at his nomination,
the nomination of Robert Mueller.
I just love this quote.
I just have to read this quote.
Yeah, read it for us.
This is a quote.
One of the senators says,
do you believe there is a cultural,
a culture problem within the bureau,
the, you know, federal bureau?
He says, I think it is,
and so they're talking about all of these problems
the bureau has.
So Mueller's answer is,
I think it is absolutely unacceptable to try to cover up
and not disclose something that needs to be disclosed.
And more importantly, or as importantly,
it's unacceptable to try to shift blame to someone else.
Wow.
Which is exactly what he just did.
Exactly what you just fucking did.
And when he puts his resume,
like all the things I've done,
his last case,
one of his only homicide cases he's ever worked on,
and a death penalty case,
probably the only death penalty case he worked on.
He uses Racini's case.
He says, I handled with others
the prosecution of three individuals
for the killing of two persons
whom they believe were cooperating
with the federal narcotics investigation.
So he actually uses Pete's case as-
Part of his resume.
Part of his resume.
Now where's his resume?
It's one of the things you submit to the committee.
I could listen, there's like 150 pages of his.
Okay.
He was taught, you know,
he was nominated, you're unanimous.
Everybody loves Mueller.
Yeah.
Holy shit.
Pete's not a big fan.
No, I'm sure.
He's not a big fan.
Pete's pretty pissed off right about now.
Pete's upset.
And in general, honestly,
the only thing that bothers me,
cause if you look at Mueller's resume,
look, these guys all have problems.
He's been involved in a couple of skirmishes before.
There's some, he's got mud on his face.
There's a BCCI investigation.
There was this big bank that went under.
He never really did the investigation
because he knew that the CIA was laundering money
and that he knew some stuff was going on.
So he never really follows it through.
That's a bad thing.
There's a couple little things,
but he's always willing to take a hit for the government.
Keep in mind, this is the guy, they love that.
That's how you become FBI director.
So one of the things he did, first of all,
and started young, he volunteered for Vietnam.
Fucking thousands of kids every month
are coming home in body bags.
This guy graduates high school and volunteers.
And he knew-
He was in the Marine Corps, right?
He was a-
Was he Marine?
When I read on Wikipedia,
it said that he was like an officer in the Marine Corps.
Like he was in the Marines.
So, look, I'm saying, I'm not volunteering.
Yeah, right.
I'm the-
He had one of his good friends fucking came home
in a body bag, you know?
Look, look, I think he fucked up.
I think he's ambitious.
I think he justified it.
I think he made some mistakes.
I think everybody makes mistakes.
I don't have a problem fucking up.
I fuck up all the time.
I deal with fuck ups all the time.
I love guys that fuck up.
I love complete idiots who fuck up.
But what bothers me is when you can't fucking own up to it.
The first thing you do,
when I get caught doing something,
I do stupid shit all the time.
Don't keep denying it.
Just go, fuck, all right, I fucked up.
Here's what I did, boom, boom, boom.
Sorry, my bad.
I apologize.
I can make it right.
I can fix it.
Let's fix this.
But don't keep denying.
That's what irritates me.
And that's what he does.
He just keeps covering it up.
Why wouldn't you cut this fucking guy loose?
Right.
You've got your fucking director of the FBI.
You could stroke a pen and they'd cut him loose.
Right.
But wouldn't that just unravel a whole slew of other shit?
He's worried about him coming out
and saying a bunch of shit.
Maybe, but you have to see the, look,
let me keep going.
If he lets him out,
like I feel like Mueller has so much to lose.
Well, and keep in mind too,
with Pete being in prison,
keep in mind, I can't,
you can't necessarily talk to a reporter.
Like I had carte blanche to do what I wanted in there.
Because I wasn't doing it.
I was writing ice stories
and everybody thought it was cute and funny.
Look at little Cox running around.
Little Matt Cox.
Little Matt Cox.
He's writing his little stories.
He's good books.
They don't, you know, they're harmless.
He's not bothering, but I wasn't out there
trying to solve murders and stuff.
Stuff fell in my lap.
But it wasn't like I was causing any trouble.
And I was keeping everybody entertained
and they're all happy, you know?
But if Pete said I want to talk to 2020 and 2020 showed up,
they have to go through the public information officer.
People get notified.
So you can keep an eye on this guy while he's in prison.
You can shut him down while he's in prison.
You have to allow him to do anything while he's in prison.
You're not just, there's no internet.
You're going, everything's being filtered in and out.
In and out.
You're not getting away with shit.
So he's got him in a box.
You know, so it's a nice place to have somebody
who's got some dirt on you, promised.
Okay, this is one of the things I love.
So after Mueller disappears, right,
they assign a new guy, they assume this guy David Hall.
So David Hall, so Roussini puts in a motion immediately
saying, hey, it's been fucking months and months and months.
Mueller's a goddamn, he's just turned FBI.
Nobody's talking to me.
What's going on?
He puts in a motion to compel them to reduce his sentence.
Like, I'm done.
So he says, so they respond by saying,
so Hall's response to Roussini's,
hey, I have an agreement with these guys.
Of course, there's nothing in the file.
And what he's saying is I have a guaranteed agreement.
So Hall looked at that and said,
we don't give guaranteed agreements.
So he's lying.
He writes, even puts, at no time was the defendant
promised any deal or reduced sentence
by the government officials interviewing him.
He's got to be so pissed off when he reads that.
When he's got proof, he has his copy of the agreement.
Pete fucking's like, what the fuck?
Oh, that's all hell, no.
So he doesn't even file it, nothing.
He mails it straight to the judge.
He mails it straight to the judge.
The judge who just read that gets this from Mueller
stating that the government, this is after you
agree to cooperate, you know.
The government in turn agrees to file a motion under Rule 35
for a federal rule of criminal procedure
setting forth the extent and significance
of your cooperation.
Such a motion will be filed at the conclusion
of your cooperation.
He's done, he's done.
You understand that the government's motion
will set forth extended.
So it goes on.
So that's a guarantee, a guarantee.
He doesn't say, you know, we'll consider, no, no.
So he sends this to the judge and the judge is like,
oh, hell no, bring him back.
So he'd bring him back.
Pete goes in front of the judge.
Everybody goes in front of the judge.
Then Mr. Hall gets up and says,
he gets in front of the judge and they say,
and the judge says, I said I wouldn't read all this stuff.
So she says, are you denying?
Because it's Exhibit B, that's what this is gonna be.
She goes, are you denying that there's an agreement?
And he says, no, you're not, you're not at this time,
I'm not denying it now, you know.
But then he says, but he says he doesn't deserve anything
because he pled guilty to conspiring to commit murder.
But then when he went in front of Mueller, he denied it.
So he's saying he denied it to Mueller.
So we don't have to agree because he denied it.
Pled guilty to doing it and now he's lying.
One of those two things he's lying.
So he's admitting that Rossini told Mueller
he didn't commit the murders.
So this is, now they immediately turn around
and they start saying, Rossini starts requesting documents,
like I want all the fucking notes, I want the 302,
I want everything.
So they come back and Wilson Leone, which is another one,
keep in mind, these guys got five attorneys
working on his shit.
He's got like him and maybe his parents
like leverage their house and get him one attorney.
So how are you doing that?
How are you fighting that?
Is Amadeo helping him at all or no?
No, Amadeo isn't around then.
This is back in 2000 and like, this is 2010.
So he ends up, they come back and they say,
they come back and they say, yeah, we don't have any file,
we don't have any records, we don't have any notes.
All the notes were purged and this is,
that's what it says here.
It says basically this guy is,
it's a declaration saying that had no other documents
or records related to the case,
that they have everything, that's it.
This is a declaration.
This is them telling the government, the court,
hey, nothing else to give them, fuck them, that's it.
Okay, fine.
So then they go, so then Bruce Burroughs,
remember Burroughs who went and took the notes.
The guy who actually was taking the notes.
Burroughs comes and so they investigate,
have Burroughs come back.
So he comes back.
And this is just to clarify, these notes are when Burroughs
and Mueller went to the penitentiary for three days
to meet with Roussini.
Yes, right.
Now, Mueller's notes, we never find.
They're gone.
Mueller's pretty sharp.
Sure.
I mean, we don't keep around evidence to commit.
Yeah, yeah.
So this, so keep in mind, so they talk to Burroughs.
This is his transcript, right?
So Burroughs, Bruce Burroughs gets on the thing.
They say, records be clear.
This is in reference to the three meetings
with Mr. Mueller, blah, blah, blah.
And then they asked, basically,
was he, did corruption at all come up with Roussini?
He says no.
Did he ever mention anything about corruption?
No, never say anything about corruption.
No corruption?
No corruption.
Did he ever, did he ever disclaim any,
expressly disclaim any involvement
in Ellenberger's murder?
No.
Did he ever expressly disclaim involvement
in, you know, in Esty's murder?
No.
Okay, so did he ever in any way disclaim
there was a concocted conspiracy to frame him?
No.
Never mentioned it.
Who's saying this?
No, Burroughs is saying.
Burroughs.
He took all these notes and he's saying,
he never mentioned a conspiracy.
No.
Pete's like, the fuck?
Oh yeah, what the fuck?
Were you able to confirm allegations of corruption?
No.
You know why?
Because they never looked into it.
Yeah.
So if I say this guy's corrupt and I got five people
that will say they were there when he brought the money,
you gotta go talk to them.
You can check the records from the hotel.
You can check everything.
If you're in Mueller, you don't follow that up.
Right, you don't want to.
And there's a paper trail.
I got my murderers.
I, everything, I'm not following leads
at point to the FBI being involved.
I can't follow that.
Oh no, we don't even look into that.
Right.
So they start talking about the,
so this is Pete's lawyer starts talking
about the 302 that was created
and how it's not quite accurate and is it exact
and well, how did you create it?
Because, you know, I'm not sure.
My client says it's not accurate and he says,
yeah, I did.
He said, did you take notes?
He goes, yeah, I took notes.
I said, oh, do you have, do you know where the notes are?
He said, did Mueller take notes?
I don't know if Mueller took notes.
Okay, so you did take, yeah, yeah, I believe,
believe I did.
Okay, do you have the notes?
I do not.
Where are they now?
They should be in the file.
Which file?
The FBI file.
Your Honor, if there are notes,
so this guy, Vermullen, which is Pete,
Roussini's lawyer says, whoa,
your Honor, if there's notes in the file,
we need to see those notes.
We've asked for the notes.
Oh, okay, so guess what?
They go and they look in the FBI file
and they're the fucking notes.
They find the notes that they've already
swore were not there, yeah.
Not there, been purged, there's no records,
there's no, bam, here's your fucking notes.
This is, this is, sorry, this is funny.
This is the U.S. attorney saying,
this is after they find the notes.
Pete said when he brought the notes in and laid them down
and they started going over the notes.
And I was like, well, what'd he say?
He goes, Pete goes, you know what's funny about that?
I write this in the book where he says,
he says, you know, the funny thing is he goes,
he'd done everything he was supposed to do.
Like he filed the right motions,
he'd said all the right things,
he'd done all the right things.
He was, but when he saw the notes,
it was the first time I could tell he believed me.
He was a good attorney.
He was, but he was going through the motions.
This, when he looked at the notes, he was like, fuck.
Yeah.
He couldn't believe it.
Yeah, right.
Because, you know, you assume that the guy's lying to you.
Right.
So anyway, this is one of the U.S. attorneys
telling the judge our files, our internal files,
were purged years ago.
There's nothing else.
So that's why they can't find that.
So the 302 is not synonymous with the notes.
It's vastly different.
Right.
And he says, so.
They left out all the corruption and all that stuff.
They say, leave out everything.
So what ends up happening is she says, okay,
we're going to let you talk to Mueller.
We're going to bring Mueller back.
So he was, okay.
So we're going to let you talk to Mueller.
They say that to Rossini.
No, no, yeah, they say it to his lawyer and Rossini.
They say, we're going to let you,
we're going to let you basically interview Mueller
as a witness so you can go over this.
But we're limiting it to two hours.
Okay, remember the hotel?
This is called the Monterey Mondrial Hotel right here.
So it talks about the Mondrial Hotel.
That's where they deliver the first 50,000,
which is, it talks about how Frank,
somebody was, they stayed in Rossini's room.
So he deposit 50,000, he gave $50,000 down
and that he still owed another $50,000 right here.
So this is how they talk about,
he talks about just them going up to the room
and there's 50,000 and 50,000 and it's Marc Farsion.
So where does he say, he says,
make sure they don't find the body.
And here it says that they said,
it says not to kill him in San Francisco, okay?
So- And what is that from?
This is from the notes.
This is Burroughs Notes.
Okay, this is Burroughs Notes when Pete's talking to him.
Right, now keep in mind, he's got a bunch of notes,
but these are the ones that he leaves out all these things.
He leaves these out of the 302.
The 302, he never mentions anything about corruption,
$50,000 payoffs or anything, the hotel, nothing.
Keep in mind too, multiple people are there.
All he's gotta do is go talk to these people.
People were there.
Muller didn't go.
No, not interested in talking to them.
Can't have, we can't be generating notes.
These notes are here, so it's done.
They got him dead to rights pretty much.
Well, do they?
Because- You would think.
Declaration of Defendant, Rossini submits,
so Rossini here explains what he told Muller
in this whole thing.
He explains all this about what he told Muller
and what the notes say and everything and they send it.
So why did they ask him, why they left these notes
out of the 302?
Did they ask him that?
Did they ask that to Muller?
Well- Or to Burroughs?
I mean, surely they get the notes,
but what's his attorney?
Oh yeah, well see, both Burroughs
had already been interviewed.
So now it's Muller.
Now they come up with the notes,
then they go straight for Muller.
So Muller, they ask.
So Muller gets on the, when Muller takes the stand,
keep in mind too, this is on a video thing.
He's in Quantico or wherever,
Washington someplace, I don't know.
So he ends up taking it, he's on a screen,
everything, they talk to him.
He's only only got two hours.
So they go through the whole thing,
and you can read this, this is all on the website.
And this is like right after 9-11, right?
No, it's a while out.
This is a while later.
Like this happens in about 10 years,
this is 2011 now,
one time they get him on the stand.
Keep in mind Muller's been constantly putting this off.
Yeah.
You know, I've got meetings with the White House.
So finally they say, we'll do a conference.
They do a conference, it's only gonna be two hours.
So, okay.
They ask basically, yeah, let's try to summarize that.
Okay, summarize the whole thing is that
they start asking him questions.
Did they talk about this?
Did they talk about this?
So this is the one that I love.
So he's expecting him to say,
he's like, he's like, I'm expecting him to say that I,
just what happened?
Yeah.
Just say what you're talking about.
Right, come clean.
He has no choice.
Did Mr. Rossini ever flat out deny he was involved
in the murder of Ellenberger or Estes?
Did he ever deny it?
No.
To the contrary, he implicated himself substantially
in both of those murders.
What about the notes?
All right.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Does Muller not know that they have notes?
Muller doesn't know they found the notes.
Oh, okay.
That's what I'm saying right here,
because they ask him, did you review this?
No, did you review this?
No, we sent you this.
Did you, no, no.
Did you, he's like, all I looked at was the 302.
Because he knows, because he helped,
probably helped craft the 302.
Right, of course, yeah.
So then they start going through,
and if you read it on the thing,
and I, you know, in the book,
and if you read it on the website,
which I mean, I know we're trying to wrap up.
So he ends up saying,
he says, oh, Rossini downplayed his role substantially.
He did this, he did that.
Then they start saying,
so it starts to become obvious
as they're asking the questions about corruption,
and were you involved in this?
Were you looking at this?
Were you looking at this?
He starts to realize something's,
you know, he starts to realize something's up.
Yeah.
He's gotta know something.
So it's like, then he starts immediately saying,
when they start asking about corruption,
law enforcement, investigation,
did you look into this?
Did you know who this person was?
Did you know who this person was?
So they start asking about Harrison and Nason, right,
and Rossini preparing to testify.
They start asking about all these different things,
and one of the things they start asking is about the,
about, he's like, they're like, why would you co-see him?
Well, we wanted to make sure
that we were gonna prosecute the right person.
Right.
You didn't.
Right.
So what he told you was completely contradictory to that.
So he says, did you review all of the notes?
And he's like, no.
What, how about the law enforcement reports?
Did you review those?
Law enforcement reports, I reviewed the 302.
Did you talk to Agent Burroughs or anyone under this?
And he says, not that I recall.
You know, I said, yeah, I'm gonna talk to anybody.
Right.
He's in Washington.
These guys aren't calling.
You can't call the FBI director.
It doesn't matter who the fuck you are.
Yeah.
Unless you're the president.
And nobody thinks he's, anything's wrong.
A lot of these guys are just going about their normal day.
Right, right.
This guy's gonna get on the stand
and say all this fucked up shit.
So when you went to talk to Rossini,
do you recall, you know, Farceone, Burrero or Blum
and about the investigation, he says, I'm not certain.
See what I'm saying?
Now he's starting, I'm not certain.
It's been too long.
I can't remember.
Can't recall.
He starts doing all that shit.
I can't recall.
I can't recall.
What about Farceone?
What about this, the case?
Not that I'm, I'm not saying, you know.
So he starts fumbling and fumbling and fumbling.
My favorite part is when he starts to kind of get him
into a jam.
He says I don't recall like 100 times.
I don't recall.
At this present time, I do not recall what I was thinking
or in my mind at the time.
He's like, do you remember reading this
where they were saying it was about corruption?
They were talking about, they were focusing in
on corruption and this and this.
He says, do you recall at this point having read that
or not?
He said, I don't recall, but I can tell you,
I adamantly agree, disagree.
Mueller basically, you know, snaps, you know,
a police officer did not pull the trigger or kill.
And he cuts him off.
He's like, I'm not, I'm not saying he did.
He pulls out the handwritten notes
and they start going over the handwritten notes.
Who starts pulling the lawyer?
The lawyer.
Racini's lawyer.
Racini's lawyer.
And he starts to show him the notes.
Shows him to Mueller.
And then he just fucking turns into, listen,
I don't remember nothing.
I don't remember.
Fifth.
I plead the fifth.
Did you discuss this?
You know, I don't recall, I could have,
then it becomes, I could have, I don't have,
I don't recall today.
If it's in Bruce's 302 we did,
he keeps going back to the 302.
That looks good.
Because he knows, well, of course you're correct.
He's safe there.
If they crafted it and we know, that's my safe place.
It's perfect.
That's all I read.
Yep.
So he starts talking about testimony.
If you read the whole thing,
everything that Racini said was correct.
And he's really, really trying to back out of the whole thing.
And so it just becomes a whole bunch of,
I don't recall, I don't know.
Well, what about this note?
What about this?
He's like, I don't know what was in Bruce's mind
when he wrote that.
I don't recall.
What did you do after Racini told you all this?
Did you launch any investigation at all?
You went to Leavenworth and the guy just told you
that the FBI officer is the one that basically,
you know, officer or agent, whatever.
Yeah, they conspired to help commit this murder
or that they leaked the information.
Did you look into that at all?
And he's like, well, we may have, it's possible,
we could have, because he knows,
doesn't look good if I didn't follow that up.
Well, we already know, Burrow said in his transcript,
we didn't look into any of that.
Because he's saying that didn't even happen.
He's saying now we know it happened,
did you look into it?
He's like, well, we could have, maybe possibly,
there may have been a separate investigation.
No, no, we're talking about this investigation.
I don't recall, I don't know,
it's very probable it occurred.
So they go on and on.
I mean, it just, bro, it goes on and on.
In the end, he just, it reverts to him just saying,
I don't recall, I don't recall, I don't know,
I don't recall, I don't recall.
And if you read the whole thing,
and I know we can't read the whole thing,
I know it's ridiculous.
It ain't good.
And this is a condensed version.
Keep in mind, this is 136 pages,
almost all Mueller saying, I don't recall,
I don't recall, unless you say something bad
about an FBI agent and then he says,
that is absolutely untrue.
You know.
Meanwhile, there's notes from his meeting with Pete
that basically contradict everything that he's saying.
Everything he's saying, they've got notes that say,
yeah, exactly, there were payoffs.
There was murders.
Farsion saying, we're not to murder him here,
make sure they don't find the body.
Everything, didn't even look into it.
Didn't even look into it.
Didn't even look into it.
And this is where.
So after the two hours is up, then what happened?
Like, what happens after this proceeding is over?
They run out of time, they gave two hours with Mueller.
Mueller basically wasted two hours saying,
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
Right.
So where do they go from there?
Well, he ends up getting resentance.
Basically, they go to Pete and they go through the whole thing.
They end up saying, they end up, he gets resentenced.
The judge knocks it down to like,
he goes from like 40 years to like 36, to 35 years.
So it's like 45, not five off, fuck.
So he, Pete appeals it.
He gets. Again.
Again, he appeals it.
They say, the appellate court says,
we're gonna let you talk to this guy.
We're going to let you bring Mueller back untimed.
As long as it shakes.
So that's one of the things they went like,
you can't limit them.
Yeah.
So his attorney basically,
there's a new attorney, he's like, look,
they calls up, they call up the Wilson Leon.
What is this?
Like a third attorney?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So they call the use attorney and they say,
look, we're bringing Mueller back.
He goes, I'm going to keep him on the fucking stand
a couple of days now.
Really digging in hearts up.
The guy's like, all right, listen, calm down.
Let's work this out.
So they end up eventually,
they end up realizing that this is it.
We're done.
They're gonna bring Mueller back.
They've got the notes.
So the US attorney comes back and Pete said,
he was really irritated because he's like,
I really wanted Mueller to get back on the stand.
But they basically, they file a stipulation.
The government concedes that what Mueller said
was inaccurate and, you know, they don't say lie.
Yeah.
He materially misrepresented the facts of the case.
You know, that kind of bullshit.
So basically that what he said was inconsistent
with the notes, inconsistent with what actually happened.
And it talks about, so they concede a whole bunch of stuff
and they agree that everything that Pete said
that he denied, he denied it.
He denied that he had done all the,
that he'd conspired to do anything to kill anybody
that he talked about, they basically concede
everything that actually happened.
They bring Pete back again
and put him in front of the court again.
They once again, the US attorneys come in,
they basically misrepresent what actually happened
and they try and confuse the issues
and they say it's all Pete's fault
because he was a leader organizer, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's all him, it's all him.
And he gets sentenced again.
I think this time it drops to 34 years.
They knock a year off.
I think they give him 34 years.
I think he finally ends up with 34 years.
They've res sentenced him like three times.
So currently at this date, he's at 34 years.
So what is Roussini's, like what is his state of mind
right now?
Like what is, after all of this,
all these years of going through all this bullshit,
like where is he at if you were to talk to him right now?
Like what's his position on it right now?
How does he feel about it?
You know what he feels like?
He's, you know what he's most upset about
is that at one point, at one point
when he was being res sentenced,
the government brings back, not the last,
I don't think it was the last sentencing.
No, I do, I think it was the last sentencing.
They bring in all of the family members.
Like the-
Okay, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they bring them all in
and they let them breathe-
Oh, Ellenberger and-
Yeah, Ellenberger's family and Esty's family come in,
his sister comes in, his brother,
everybody comes in, they all get to be in there.
And well, just prior to being res sentenced,
the US attorney actually said to Pete's attorney,
hey, by the way, it was either the Ellenberger family
or the Esty's family.
The family's basically wanted to talk to your client.
I told them that you wouldn't agree to it.
And it's just, his lawyer says, no, absolutely not.
No, you don't want to talk to them.
And that's it.
So then he tells, oh yeah, by the way,
he can not believe this, he tells Pete,
by the way, can you believe that they wanted to talk to you?
The Esty's or whoever wanted to talk to you.
Pete's right.
And Pete goes, yeah, I want to talk to him.
Yeah.
And he's like-
What?
What do you mean?
He goes, I want to talk to him.
He's like, why?
He said, because I want to explain to him what happened.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
Right, I think he killed him.
Right, he's like, I want to explain that,
like he loved John.
Right, they were best friends.
Yeah, they were best friends.
I mean, the guy was a fuck up.
But, you know, but he's like,
but we'd been friends forever.
He's like, and, you know, he's like,
I used to stay over at his house all the time
while we would eat, where I knew his family.
I knew he used to stay at our place all the time.
My mom would cook him fucking spaghetti.
He's like, I mean, we were friends.
And now he's like, his family thinks I fucking killed him.
I would like them to look me in the face
so I could tell them that I didn't do this.
So then his attorney goes back and talks to the US attorney
and tries to get the US attorney to contact them.
And he's like, no, no, forget it.
Don't worry about it.
I talked to him.
They don't want to stay.
I talked to him.
They don't want to talk to him anymore.
I told him that he didn't want to.
So now that they're done.
And so Pete's like, he's like,
I would love to tell them that I didn't do this,
that this didn't happen.
He's like, I mean, you know, it's,
I don't want to do the next five or six years, you know,
that he's got at this point.
He's like, I don't want to do that.
But at this point, you've been locked up so fucking long.
Yeah.
Trust me.
I might as well write it out now.
And you don't, you won't, you would,
the last five, six, seven years is not nearly as fucking hard
as the first part.
Once you hit that, once you get over that, that hill,
you know, once you're over the hump,
it's, it's a huge weight off of you.
And he's coming down just at the end.
I mean, he's practically walking around thinking,
like feeling like I'm getting out soon.
It's five years.
He's got five years left.
Yeah.
And you're thinking, but that's how you feel.
Like, oh, fucking, I'm getting out of here soon.
It's five years.
Most people get five years.
They want to kill themselves.
Five years is nothing.
After 20, it's not.
Oh, right.
So.
Have you talked to him recently?
I was talking to him up into the point
when my probation officer told me
I couldn't talk to him anymore.
Okay.
So not allowed to talk to.
You know, I didn't think it was an issue
because we were working on a book together.
Yeah.
Doing the true crime thing.
And, and you know, but she's a,
I don't know.
She's a, she's opposed to it.
So.
She's not your biggest fan.
No, no.
And she doesn't like the books.
She keeps telling me she's rooting for me,
but I haven't seen it.
So, yeah.
So no, I haven't, I haven't.
Well, if she's watching this,
I'm sure she's, I'm sure she's a very nice lady.
She, yeah.
She is, she's very polite.
She's very nice.
She's very, I think I'm just, she's just.
Yeah.
And she can see that you're trying to, you know.
She's concerned about me.
And I stole 11 and a half million the last time
I was on vacation.
Right.
They tend to get upset about that.
So, yeah.
So, but you know, here's the thing is that,
it's like this guy, this guy's in prison
for something that he, look, like I said,
I mean, I don't know if I said this,
I don't think we're on camera or not.
But, but, you know, the two guys that committed the murders
ate Thanksgiving with their families.
Yeah.
Right.
And they had a meal in the fucking Chow Hall.
Right, right.
His mother came to see him.
You know what I mean?
I mean, your mother drives an hour and a half,
two hours to come see you.
It's bullshit.
And then all them guys know it, that he didn't do it.
Right.
And, and here's the thing.
And, and so the people that actually the FBI agents
and the informant and the people that actually,
that actually, you know, committed the murder
and the frame up.
These guys are, these guys are at home with their families.
Yeah.
That it doesn't, it doesn't make sense.
And, you know, and Mueller getting on the stand
and saying some bullshit.
You know, if you read the book, I, you know,
it clarifies it really well where he's just complete.
It's just bullshit.
He didn't know the notes existed.
He's ready to fucking bury Racini.
He could have cut him fucking loose.
He could have said, this man did an amazing job.
You need to cut it.
He could have right then said, you got to cut his sentence.
It's a great, he really helped us.
He this, he that, I mean, he could have pushed it.
Instead, he did the opposite.
Keep him in fucking prison.
He didn't kill anybody.
Jesus.
Even if he did what you said he did, you gave him 40 years.
Yeah.
The guys, the killers are already out.
So, you know, as far as Aria's concerned,
there's some evidence there that definitely that points
to Aria or maybe Nason just accidentally,
like you said, at one point he accidentally did.
Was he a hit man?
Did he accidentally kill?
I don't know.
Now where's Nason and Harrison now?
They're both, they're both out, they're out.
They got out like last year or year before, both of them.
So, I just, you know, and what's so fucked up is that,
is that like, like I told you I sent this all over the place.
Like Fox News looked at it.
The investigator for Fox News really looked at it
for about a month or so.
I mean, I'm sorry, for a week or so.
And then he contacted me on the phone
and then we talked on the phone
and I was trying to explain it.
And he, I could tell he didn't understand.
He wasn't asking the right questions.
Okay.
The only issue in the end was he was asking questions
that were like, okay, well, you know, well, yeah,
but we can't prove the phone numbers are this.
Yes, we can.
I have the directory that says it was this.
I have the, I have the homicide detectives wrote down
the phone number for Barrero and Farcian.
He got those are the right numbers.
I assure you, I have, you know, well,
and then he switched to something else
and then he switched to something else.
Well, well, I'm not sure that that's really,
Mueller's really committed a crime.
I don't didn't say, I don't know that he's committed a crime.
I'm not sure what you would call framing someone
or allowing it to continue.
But you know what I do know?
I know that it's ethically and morally wrong
is that at the very least,
I think that people should know
that this is what really happened
and that he should have done the right thing.
He still could do the right thing.
You know, that he could have fixed it.
He didn't.
Continuing to allow this to move forward
and have this guy serve out a sentence
that he never should have been involved in.
Keep in mind, the guys that were involved
in his drug conspiracy, these guys got a year.
Yeah.
They got five years.
One guy who'd just gotten out of federal prison
like four or five years earlier,
who'd been in federal prison a couple of times
and the state massive amount of drugs
because he was willing to cooperate.
He got like eight or nine years,
ended up getting out in like seven years, six years.
I mean, all of these guys got minor, minor sentences
that Pete should have ended up getting.
Yeah, he got the big one.
Right, 40 years.
Let's keep them in jail.
Why?
You can see that it was a complete frame job.
Everybody's admitting that.
So, you know, my problem is one,
Pete's in prison, two, nobody gives a fuck.
I sent it to Fox News, they looked at it
and in the end, what Fox News is,
I think what it boiled down to was
that basically the guy said,
look, the problem is, he said,
I don't know about all these documents.
He said, some of them are, a lot of them are sealed.
Mm-hmm.
Pete's got them, I have them,
but the fact of the matter is he didn't like the idea
that I was involved.
So.
You personally.
Me personally.
Right, because you gotta pass on a record.
Exactly.
Secondly, he said, we cannot,
he goes, we cannot move forward with something like this.
He goes, because it's such a big allegation.
It's such a bombshell that we can't get it wrong.
So, what you did was, you read the book,
you looked through some documents and that's all he did.
He called, I think he called Vermellan,
which was a.
The lawyer.
Vermellan, which was the lawyer to ask Vermellan,
Vermellan wouldn't respond to him.
You know, I mean, you're not gonna talk
about your client's case,
nor do I think that, keep in mind,
he probably doesn't want to talk to him anyway,
because if it has anything to do with him all or.
Now, what, this stuff getting out,
like say Fox News did run this,
or a big network like CNN or whatever ran a story like this,
what would happen?
What would happen to Mueller?
Nothing would happen to him.
Nothing would happen to him.
Right.
What it would show is that, look,
he didn't follow up the leads.
What you do, if you lay out,
if you lay out a whole bunch of information
and you just stick with what's your,
what furthers your agenda,
you're gonna come up with a file full of facts and documents
that prove whatever you want proven.
You can, you ignore the other ones.
So you can easily shape any investigation.
Right.
And that's what he did was he shifted blame,
he shaped the investigation,
he stuck it on this guy to avoid any involvement of the FBI.
To further his agenda.
Right.
And that's what it boils down to.
And so this guy, so Pete,
the Rossini has to sit in prison.
And the problem is this is one example of shit
that happens probably every day in the FBI
and in the US prison system.
Like there's so many people,
he's just one guy out of a million.
Yeah, I mean, I hate to say that
because it's like, look, listen,
if you're in prison, there's about a 99.99% chance
you're supposed to be in prison.
I've met very few people that were in it.
He's not innocent.
He's not innocent.
Pete's a drug dealer.
He shouldn't have got 40 years.
He should have got 10 years and maybe 20.
He helped throw the body away in dumpster, right?
He disposed of, he did help dispose of the body.
And that's a horrible thing.
That's prison time.
Definitely prison time.
But he served in a sentence for a crime he didn't commit.
Cut the fucking guy loose.
You know, here's the problem is is that the podcast,
like people will watch this and they'll try and pull,
they're very polarized.
They're Democrats or Republicans.
To me, it's not a Democrat.
It's not a Republican.
What is Mueller?
Is he a Republican?
He's actually a Republican,
but Democrats and Republicans just love him.
Everybody loves him.
So what I, do you know why?
No idea why.
I think it's just because he's all around a government guy.
He's got great credentials.
Yeah, he's got the good resume.
Hey, scarce.
Marine Corps officer.
How you can't say anything bad about that?
That's why they don't want to run it on the...
Yeah, he, I can say bad things like that
because you smearing my...
I remember it's funny.
I actually called a guy, a reporter
and told him about this.
Let me tell you the conversation real quick.
Conversation was, I told him the whole thing
and all the evidence that I had,
but I never used Mueller's name.
I just said, the U.S. Attorney did this
and U.S. Attorney said this and this
and the notes and this and this.
And he goes, oh my God, can you prove this?
Can you prove that?
I was like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I'm going, he was all excited.
He was, man, this is great, Matt.
Can you send me that stuff?
That's great.
That's great.
And I go, well, the problem is, what's the problem?
And I go, well, the problem is the U.S. Attorney
was Robert Mueller and he goes,
why would Mueller do that?
I go, well, what?
Well, because I just told you it was like,
it was a politically motivated, I think.
I don't know exactly.
Yeah, but I mean, Matt, he's got to sell a reputation.
Why would he do that?
I mean, it doesn't even make sense.
Suddenly, everything that I said that he was excited about,
bloop, turn.
Right, right.
That's crazy.
He didn't ask me for anything to send him anything
after that and I knew right then
and he even sent me an email where he said,
look, you might want to send that to Breitbart
or Fox News or one of those guys,
but I mean, if you really, he was mad,
if you really expect to be, you know,
to try and become a journalist at some point,
he said, I mean, you need to really think about
who you're, you know, basically who you're getting
in bed with.
All right.
I was like, it's nothing to do with fucking with things.
Because all them news stations are politically owned,
but a lot of those people is the end of the day.
But I was like, I can't believe that you're going to ignore.
Anyway, my point is that, look,
what I would love to see happen.
Free Pete.
I would love, Free Pete, baby.
Yeah, I would love to see,
I would love to see people, obviously, by the book.
Yeah.
Look at the, look at the exhibits.
Yeah, fact check it.
But send it, but to share this with like,
share it with 10 people and ask them to share it
with 10 people and ask them to share it with 10 people.
Because look, I don't care if it's going to
be conservatives or liberals or whoever it is,
but if you, if you got the message out there
and could maybe somehow or another,
there are avenues to cut him loose is what I'm saying.
Right, right.
Yeah, it could help him.
Right.
First of all, he's got to, he still has the ability
to file a 20-55.
And people like him, yeah.
He can file a 20-55 because he's got a super strong
argument that one, he pled guilty to this
and Mueller had him enter into an agreement
with saying something completely opposite,
which basically-
That they didn't hold up.
Right, so what ends up happening is he has the ability
to get his sentence basically quashed or reduced.
It's a simple motion from the government.
Trump could fucking pardon him.
You know, I mean, I'm just saying it'd be great
if this got forwarded to as many people as possible.
Yes.
I don't think he watches any podcasts.
Yeah, but I mean, it would be great if it got forwarded
to as many people as possible until something happened.
Yeah.
You know, for Pete, because he's really,
think of the, you know, in the back of the book,
I say, I want to say I say he's being released in,
it's October, I think it's October 2025.
Okay.
Not 24, might be 24.
I'll have to check.
Okay.
Might be 24.
So yeah, October 2024, man.
Jesus.
And he's already done 20 something years.
Yeah, god damn, that's fucked.
You know, his mom comes to see him like every two weeks,
just like my mom used to come.
We used to see each other all the time.
How old is he?
Pete, Pete's 50.
He's 50 now.
He was exactly my age.
Wow.
So yeah, so I mean, it's definitely, you know,
and here's the whole thing, don't even believe me.
Just look at the evidence.
Read the book, look at the evidence.
You don't have to believe me, I'm just some scumbag.
I mean, I have no problem with you saying,
oh, I don't fucking believe you.
Okay, great, don't believe me.
Read the book.
The facts are there.
It's not even a big book.
It's an abridgment of a larger book.
It's like 110 pages.
It's a joke, there's footnotes.
They all correlate with the exhibits.
So that's where I'm at.
And keep in mind, things could go bad for me.
I could get violated.
For all I know, they may come after me.
We were talking about getting killed.
So yeah, so anyway, definitely.
Don't come after us, please.
Yeah, you know.
Don't kill the messenger.
Yeah, they could always come up with some reason.
Right, FBI shows up at Danny's front door.
It's not hard to violate something on probation.
It's not hard to say, we decided you gotta go back
for six months.
Yeah, we don't like what you're doing.
Right.
Wow, well thank you for coming in here
and telling the story.
It was a bombshell.
I hope a lot of people can share it
and learn more about this and we need to fucking free Pete.
He's such a good guy, you know.
He only moved the body.
Yeah, he only moved the body.
It's an amazing story.
And I suggest everyone, they can go down there,
they can order the book.
Soon you're gonna have an audio version of it available.
We're gonna help you record some audio stuff for Matt.
He's got a YouTube channel.
Subscribe to Matt's YouTube channel
because he's gonna have some audio book.
You're gonna put some audio recordings on there soon.
Yeah, I'm gonna take some of the actual stuff
that's on my website, Inside True Crime.
I'm actually gonna do an audio version
and put those up so that you can, you know.
Because nobody reads.
Right, no, everyone listens to the story.
They wanna drive and listen.
Is that a podcast?
Or is that just audio?
Yeah, he's sweat.
Audio book, audio book.
Yeah, it's not really a book though,
they're just synopses, so audio.
It's just a story.
It's a story, yeah, short stories, whatever.
Well, subscribe to his YouTube channel,
buy the book, Devil Exposed on Amazon,
check out his website, Inside True Crime,
and what's the exhibit's website?
Oh, devilexposedexhibits.com.
And there'll be a link.
In fact, check them yourself.
Cool, yep, that's right.
All right, man, thanks again, Matt.
Hopefully we can tell another story again here
in the future.
Yeah, sorry I had to rush through this.
That's completely Danny's fault.
All right, good night, everyone.
Thank you.
All right.
