Oh
You pulled over drunk the shit will bring you right back to life. Holy shit. What is that ammonia? It's smelling salts
Yeah, yeah, what is it fucking? It's just probably just killed some brain cells then. Oh, absolutely
Like smelling gods. I love the fucking suit. I love your cigars, too
Look at that. Look at the even the thing diamond edition diamond edition the Larry Lawton Diamond edition and this is that the first one
We would coming out with we have chew on it
No, what we're gonna do is we got a emerald edition coming. We're gonna have a pearl division
We're gonna have a whole bunch of stuff. This is a legacy project for me the cigars. Yeah
I mean, it's something I I've been smoking cigars for 40 years. Let's go. What are we doing? We're going we're rolling
Oh, yeah, we're good. We're live. Oh, don't you oh, don't you do your intro and nothing like that?
I don't do not a fucking bullshit. Yeah, not now
Never I will never do that ever what on the show. I always do intro. Well, you know what we do on our show
You got a real show
No, it's the same as yours
The what we do is I call it the real deal with Larry Lawton and the reason I do that is because we don't cut
There's none of this
I don't cut anything. We don't do a fucking again, but we're known look look at you. Yeah, look at that
Yeah, you know what that is Randy linear you got to have him on Randy linear is the biggest drug dealer in the world
He ended up doing 27 years of prison. His last load of dope was a hundred and seventy five hundred and seventy thousand pounds
180,000 of what of weed a whole boat and he ended up it was 55 million his end or 60
One load one loaded up a nice guy
He was he's actually was the rookie of the year in the in the Indy car series with AJ foight in them
No, he funded his whole team. This is you know how it happened. There was a Netflix series on him
the Netflix series is called
Need for weed need for weed. Yeah. Yeah, and it's on Netflix. It's called bad sport. It's it's like Netflix has a show
Hey, it comes out and it's like athletes
I guess you know like Tonya Harding who beat the one with the fucking leg and shit remember that
Carry Karrigan, you remember she hit Karrigan with the fire you were too young. What the fuck am I talking?
How old are you 35? Wow, you're my son's 33
Fucking old bastard later. I am but look at you. I'm 61. You're on top of the fucking world right now
You got so much energy. I do you got a YouTube channel. You got a you got the podcast. Well, that's a podcast
Watching your video this morning your your video you're talking about Brittany Griner. I'm sorry Austin Austin
Can you put up pull up video on that? I want to say I think I do a thing every year
I'll be on what I want to play hit the video on that real deal pot website play. No, just go to videos
Go to videos, right?
Look at all your episodes. Yeah, no the last one right there. Larry and Ben's with students
There's the first one. No, no, no, no, not that side right down. There you go
That episode right there was what was amazing because it's uh, I
Actually do every year every Chris
Every Christmas time I
Give away a speaking agent or something like big, you know, like I like I get pretty good money to do that
So what I do is I'll give it away to a kids to students to a high school
This is a high school out of Chicago or right out of Chicago and and they contacted me and and the reason
I did it with them is I do it with one a year, you know
I mean like Christmas time and they love it man these kids
They got a project going for criminal justice to fix the prison system. They reached out and I love when kids do that
They don't quit, you know what I mean? They did you never know you know that you never know who you're gonna run into and
He so I'm doing a whole thing and we did I put them on the podcast. They they actually film themselves
It's in Fenton that it's called Fenton High School out of a Chicago
Out just right Chicago and have the higher truer truancy rate higher truancy rate than actual
the whole entire district and this is Chicago now, so it's a little rough and
What does that mean truancy rate?
People have not gone to school quit school. Oh, yeah, not quitting. Just never go. Okay
That's actually against the law to be a truan, you know, people I heard that yeah, and the parents can get in trouble
That's stupid again. That's I think it's it's stupid
But I heard Kamala Harris had something to do with that in California. I hate the word hate
I do not like these because I think it kills us. It doesn't it kills you it doesn't kill
The person you hate they don't even know you hate. It's a necessary word. You know, it's not I think it is
No, I'll tell you why whenever I take that word out of my cab you like I
Always feel better. You know what happened
I don't know if you remember out of your audience remembers I was strapped down naked beaten and tortured in in a prison
Jesus Christ and I was pissed on I was in there for 11st. I was in the hole for three years
But 11 straight months and I remember, you know
Well, they'd come into myself that people who often asked me what was the scariest or was the worst time you had the merchant nerves
It was when not being beaten or not being in an altercation. I've been stabbed twice. I've been stabbed two people. I'd be shot
The worst was when they opened the cell the tear door in the hole and I knew they were coming for me
So that 30 seconds before they took them get to my door and they don't tell you lock up
I mean if they tell you lock up, that's legit, you know, they lock up that means you turn around
you stick your hands through the shoot door and
When you do that, then, you know, they because they cannot open that door unless you're in handcuffs, okay, you know
In your hands out in the coffee. Well behind your back. Okay behind your back
And I used to I know how to slip my day. I did a video on my show on my YouTube. I had a slip handcuffs and oh
So anyway, you take a fucking paperclip. It's so easy to get out. I saw a video of a guy doing it, too
He was showing me that like there's a way you can like basically
play a little like a
Well, they get like a game with it with the with the chains where you like sort of like take your hands
And you go like that and you put them in a knot and then you can create enough leverage to just yeah
You could prop them, but that's tough too because what happens if they're behind you back? You can't do that
Also, what they used to do to me. I was doing what they call a black box a black box is when they
They there's a box that goes over the handcuffs in between it and you are fucked. I mean it is the worst thing
They did they do that like my myself because I was a violent and maiden. I
Attack I didn't notice until I've been out now and you know the guard that guarded me has been on my show a few times
I don't know if you know his name Gary Massie great guy. He ended up going to prison himself and
He was the head of the Union in Jessup, Georgia great guy and he actually his daughter
Says hey dad this guy makes his prison pass though. Whatever you make I should he goes who he goes and looks on you
He don't know any about tech. He's 50 years or 50 years old about me. He looked and he goes
That's the guy that taught me how to make it. I
Told him how to make it
So his daughter reached out to my son who runs the social media and my son says the dad
You know Gary Massie a guard that they said they know you I
Said Gary Massie. Yeah, I don't know Massie
I didn't know what happened that he went to prison himself because he ended up going to prison for
Smuggling things in prison himself. He gets fired. It was a prison while he was a guard, right?
Well, and you know what kind of shit were they smuggling just he was creatine in cigarettes creatine
What the fuck are they smuggling creatine? They want to get big
Creatine and cigarettes now cigarettes in big from creatine. Oh, yeah creatine is what you need
Just wanted a great muscle building. Did you know that maybe we're gonna get that big off creatine
Well, they had to do it some other sketch. No, no, no, no you snorting it. No, I never heard of that one
That's a good one. We should a lot of ass in the prison, you know, I used to do we used to get a hundred hits in every
Two to three weeks really? Yeah, oh, yeah, I can't imagine taking ass. Oh, it's the best in matter of fact
I always tell people even on my channel
The best hive of the hat or and you always try to chase your best high in life
And that was in Atlanta and I floated out of the prison
I took four hits a asset in a lock cell and I literally floated out of the fucking prison and
I you know, it's an out-of-body experience. Yeah, and you know, you think
You literally could see the whole it's a
Unfucking real. Was there a CIA chemist giving it to you? No, you know, that's they actually check they actually
Tested inmates when they were doing LSD back, but do you know LSD now and all that's being used for PTSD? Yeah
It's very good. I can't overdose on acid. You can't do any of that kind
you know, we used to do acid the best thing you do on acid if anybody's out there listening to your podcast and
Our age, you know young guys actually younger
When you jack off on acid Wow afterwards now you can't jack off when you're on the peak, of course
But when you're on the way down
It feels like your whole body is coming through you because it's a nerve drug to begin with. Wow
Fucking is amazing. I
Fucking that I've never done acid what I'm having to jack off later
And I used to jack off two or three times in prison, you know, I knew my you know my timing and everything
I was with a guy who was the biggest asset guy in the country
He used to follow the debt around and he ended up getting caught with 30,000 tabs
He's got a lot used to follow who around the dead grateful debt. Oh, okay. Grateful that's known as
He had some funny stories, too, but so coming down off the acid something about can I get a water right in front of you?
That's water. Yeah, it's liquid death. That's our sponsor. It looks like it's fucking it's in a can
They're trying to market it to kids, that's why
So did rock and water in a metal can they're trying to make water like heavy metal, you know
Try to make it cool. It looks like an energy drink. I'm gonna see how it tastes. That's the
It's pretty good. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, good smart. So good for them. I hope they make it. Cheers. Yeah, yeah, absolutely
Yeah, you can see that guys pretty good
Well, I thought it was like a beer, you know, I first when I first looked at in liquid debt, right?
Who why would you call water liquid death?
Because water kills more people than anything more people drown from water and drown and water
Hurricanes surfers Hurricanes ship sinks
Sumamis water kills
Way more people than energy drinks energy drinks maybe kill like what two or three kids a year
Water kills fucking thousands of people every year. What is the what what is what kills people in hurricanes?
They think it's the wind. Yeah, you know, we just went through her cup
You know hurricanes you guys down here on the West Coast you guys went through your stuff
Yeah, you know, I had a vacation all these her for Myers all these crazy things these crazy hurricanes that have come through in the past few years
Irma
Ian these things they're they're always headed right for Tampa right for where we're sitting and they always go off
And at the last minute they always veer another direction. It's so fucking crazy, you know, you're so lucky
It well, I don't know if it's luck. I'll tell you why, you know, you know, NASA. I live where NASA is, right?
Yeah, the Space Coast
Now we've my parents have been there for 40 years since 1983 39 years or 40 years
And did you know they've never ever had damage ever and they live in our older house
I mean, I told my mom she was old we never get in trouble
Mom if a hurricane hit this you'd be like fucking Dorothy going
I mean, this is a good wood frame house. It's not doesn't have the pre-hurricane
Root, you know, right 92 with a hurricane Andrew because I was down there for Hurricane Andrew. That's crazy. And so
This how I someone told me that they actually the scientists put NASA there for a reason
Somewhat atmospheric stuff the way the hurricanes don't and weather
Doesn't hit NASA. It's never been hit. That's why they put it there. Well, that's what yeah
I mean, you don't just put someone say let's put it here. I mean there's science behind a lot of things
No way. I had no idea. I mean think about it. And then we never got it never got now
The area gets hit down a little bit more sound a little bit north
It's weird. I mean they get paper para for it and all that and I'm sure it's gonna change
I who knows but it's never been in 40 years, you know, it's funny because I had a I used to go to a vacation four times a year and four
Miners
There's a place called red coconut. It's gone. Totally gone. I
Took years to get the best spot. There's only 15 spots. I think I don't know if it's in a country
In the United States where you could put your front two wheels on the sand and be looking
You know, it's literally your big your bay window and your big RV is looking at the Gulf of Mexico
I was looking at the Gulf of Mexico. You put your first two cents now and that's a full hookup meaning that sewage
electric and water and
it took me years to get that because
The only way to get it is only 15 spots people have been there for 20 30 years and
The only way to get that spot if someone don't show up and does or doesn't pay for the next next year
Right, you know, you pay because before you leave you just go pay, right, you know, and that's it
So I had other spots that were a little farther back
Maybe a couple rows back
But I you know that was the goal and everything and I got I got myself a pure pure week right on the front
I had another four days. That's nice gone
God's all gone now. No, I mean gone. There was a building called a I think
So I was a junkaroos or something like that
Well, yeah, junkaroos was a big big building bar right next to this place. We used to walk to it or
Gone and I don't mean just like destroyed, you know, like you like there was nothing ever there, right?
Fucking, you know, I the worst I seen before that was Hurricane Andrew and I went down with my horses to try to help
I was in jail first. I got arrested off a cruise ship there and then after that I ended up
But going down to Hurricane Andrew to help because the animals escaped from the zoo Dade County Zoo and
The prisons right there a matter of fact Miami Miami prison is there. It's a it's a medium security prison
And not FDC. They also have a federal detention center downtown Miami, but I've been in that one
And so I went down on my horses to try you there wasn't even a sign. They'd say oh meet here
How do you know where here is? There's no sign. I mean no sign the signs were
Yeah, you know, I mean people have no idea what destruction can do
I mean, they really don't do you know, there was people had a hurricane party in Fort Myers
at a Hooters
Now this video of that and there's video of that the water went over the gun Hooters is gone
Some people died from what hurricane this this one the past one no for my eyes is it there?
I mean, I know that area so well. Yeah
Fuck and you know, you know, I used to own a you know where you are right now
I used to own a condo here in Madeira Beach. That's what you're telling me. Yeah, I'm a long time ago
I was one of the gangsta, you know, it's a bad guy. Madeira Beach is a fun beach. What it's a weird place
It's kind of like the twilight zone because there's so many
Fucking junkies hanging out really work on
Because they there
They what they are is their deck hands for on the fishing boats
Sure, they have the long liners that go out of Madeira Beach out of John's past that go out and catch green
I know that area because I was you know, I was the Coast Guard right here in Coast Guard
I was that I was a boat on the rescue. I was on the three major incidents in this area
Actually, I got awards for that metals the sunshine skid bridge you were on that. Oh, yeah, you told me that because I'm not
Oh, I told you I was the first boat on scene matter of fact
I was picking up dead babies and stuff and I got PTSD from that
That's what I had two guys on here that were there
That were there on one of the USF or not one of the USF boats
They were
What were they a fishing boat the I was the DOT department
They were they were for the DOT when they were picking up stuff these two guys jobs
They're their job was to go around Florida and dive and inspect all of the bridges
So that was their job and they were like eating breakfast at the restaurant on the other side of the skyway when it happened
They were the closest ones there. So they went and got a boat and they put it in the water
Right after this happened. I was the first boat there period really first boat
Matter of fact when we the SAR alarm, it's cause search and rescue alarm goes off and we you know, you're on duty
We were under the boats and it's we were so you were how old were you? I was coast guard
18 years old. Wow. Yeah, it was 19
Shit 81
81 no if it was 81. Yeah, it was 81. So I was 20
I was born at 61 people who aren't familiar with what we're talking about 1981 one of the worst disasters in like Florida
How about two of them right here?
So the coast guard cutter Blackthorn got hit by the right ship the some adventure
No, the Capricorn, but what we're talking about right now is when the cargo ship ran into one of the pilings of the sunshine
Skyway did it did that because of fog number one, right?
And I remember the solar alarm goes off and the bridge collapsed cars
Well, but we didn't know this at this point matter of fact all we get to do is the saw alarm goes off
You know, you jump up your race you're heading there and you know, they tell you know
boat
Boat or they had a boat or something hits the bridge that happened often, right?
You see a giant concrete or fucking massive concrete
Stanchions like to hold the bridge up sunshine Skyway Bridge was a big thing. You know, it's a high bridge
Yeah, well, we used to get jumpers all the time up on the bridge and matter of fact
We I used to even know the point where they'd live
Like there's people we picked up who were alive broken legs or whatever because they they went up halfway
They didn't go I heard a story about one guy who jumped off with his dog and he ended up breaking his dogs fall as dog live
He died. Oh
Why do you want his dog to die?
Listen, I've seen a lot of death in my life sick fucks daddy. I've seen a lot of death in my life
I can't even follow. So what was that like that day the thing the bridge collapsed and you were the first, you know
when we were going there and
The alarm goes off we raced to the boat and it says, you know, boat hits the bridge and and that's kind of normal
I mean, we'd get like yachts hitting them and they think and people hit them
Kids used to try to go water skiing and shit around the pylons and shit, you know, and they sometimes that happened and
But we come up and now it's foggy now. Now. We know these areas. We listen quartet
I was stationed at a Cortez, Florida, which is in Braden, right matter of fact egg monkey
Matter of fact, a lot of people don't know egg monkey right here is one of the
Best breeding grounds for hammerhead sharks in the world as a hundred weeks to go fishing for them
That's like a big sinkhole there. But anyway, I have to eat the tarpon. Yeah, they just
Wow, they're good fight fish. So anyway, we would go and so we're heading there and it's eerie, you know, it's fog
No, we know what we're doing. We know that we have radars
We have when this fog you do certain things, you know to make sure you have to put your your horn on at certain times
And then you have to have we put my my myself. I wasn't the captain
I was there to one of the crew and I was up on the front of the boat and
I'm the one, you know, like cuz now you're here to listen and sing and give orders back to your, you know
To guide the boss in a boat the captain, right? I become a captain over those boats. So anyway, we go and
And it's eerily quiet, you know and all of a sudden the fog starts clearing and you look up
And it's fucking no bridge. There's no span. It's quiet
There's no yelling and screaming the first thing I noticed when I looked up. There was a car
Hanging on the fucking edge where like a piece of the bridge
Holy fuck we would that guy lived. Yeah. Oh, yeah
Like they stopped he got out of his car and like walked away with this car
And it wasn't dangling it was on if there was a piece of the bridge that was like that, right? And he was on
What what really people didn't know in that whole thing. So we ended up calling him
We were there for days picking up debris picking up trying to find it now
It took them over 30 days to get go down and dive in there. People don't know why hot
It's so hard to dive under that it's happened twice
I've been there twice now and we have to use that we have to do the patrols the security everything in that part
Probably the worst thing I've ever done was picking up my shipmates. Yeah, look at that. Yeah. Yeah, see that I told you
Imagine being that fuck and I have actual pictures that I have of this whole and me in the newspaper
I was in the newspaper. I was in the same piece of paper times or whatever it was and
I it was amazing what people don't know when I have pictures of the bus a greyhound bus went over there
Click on the link for that one Austin see historic photos. Yeah. Yeah, he's gonna see a greyhound bus
I have pictures. Probably nobody has period
I got a lot of games some shit
I got two monitors like this now
Yeah, keep going
You'll see
Yeah, see that and that but that's the summit venture see it landed on the front of the bridge
I think you see the boat the summit venture
And the capricorns don't want to hit the coast guard coast guard blackthorn
But if you keep going if you want, I want to see the greyhound if they show the greyhound. I'm sure they did
No, because no, they never had that until I they pulled that out of water and right it was
It was this flat. It was like this. I have picture private pictures
Of mine, you know, I I was gonna donate all this. Look at that. Yeah
It was amazing. There it is. That was it. That was the greyhound
Yeah, yeah flat. Yep the flat that boat I remember when it I was there when they did that how's that that picture
I'm there right there. That was how many days after oh 30 days. I'll bet
Wow
It took a long time people don't know how strong the currents are
Under there, you know, the currents are amazingly strong under there and it's very tough waters to do and it's a very navigating cup and
What a terrifying thing man. The I think 30 some odd people died there 35 maybe 34
And the work then the coast guard happened and uh, we lost 23 coast guard guys. Really? Yeah
Well, what happened they were on a cut of coast guard cut of blackthorn was 180. Oh, that was a different incident
Yeah, different, right, right 180 foot uh, uh, buoy tender
Wow. Yeah, I was on see that platform right that that was there for all the time
We I used to go on it all the time they brought that same platform out when the coast guard cutter went
so and they had a
You know salvage these guys that I had on here one of the guys named bob
His last name to escape me right now, but he was one of the too much drug
He was one of the dot drivers that was there or one of the dot divers that was there and he
The like he was a dot diver diver. I went to dive school in the coast guard and I actually went to pearl harbour
Oh, no, actually on fort island where they have the battleship, bro
Where arizona's are the fort islands and island right there and that's the headquarters actually for the uh,
Whatever district that is 14 14th district and uh, I uh, I went to dive school there
I only went for eight weeks because that's all we had to do
Uh, but we went in the navy dive school
The first thing we had to do to get initiated you have to swim to the mainland and bring up a case of beer back
Without dropping it. Really swim it back. How far?
Half a mile
Damn, yeah, I did it put it on your chest new back strokes, you know
And and you know, where are you originally from originally new york?
That wasn't from how does a how does a fucking new york wise guy like yourself end up fucking in the coaster being a diver in the
Coast Guard, uh, I wasn't a diver per se. You had to have a diver on a ship
The uh, I didn't do the like the real hard hats and all the real shit
No, we didn't those navy guys were amazing. Yeah, they had to go for a year. I went for eight weeks two months
And uh, could you know like if the fowl the props get fouled stuff like that on a ship
I was on the 378 foot ship after the small boat stations I was on and I became a boat captain
Searching mission captain all that and I do all that
And then after I did that I wanted to go out to sea and that's where I ended up getting hurt in a bearing sea
I ended up I was stationed in hawaii bearing sea in alaska
I used we used to I was stationed in hawaii
We did three months in hawaii and three months in alaska three months in hawaii three months
I know all of alaska kodiak kodiaks the island where the coast guard has their base there
And is that the little island halfway in between russia? No, no, no, no, no, no, that's part of alaska chain
You know russia had the elution chains actually, you know during world war two they had what they had the elution chains
Oh, those little islands. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. We last didn't become a state till 1959
right, uh, so him and hawaii both 1959 so yeah, and uh, uh, so anyway the bearing sea we see where he's at right there
I was stationed over on, uh
hawaii you go south
Yeah
Now we used to go there and that this is that's the pacific right there obviously
And if he goes wide or some some stuff then I was on
Now I went to micronesia and I actually went to an island called, uh, palmyra island was there was a murder there
There's actually a book out people saw and they go wow. Why are you talked about that?
And you look at they go look for a micro uh, go look for uh, palmyra island google palmyra island
They tried to start a colony there
And in the 70s and there was a murder and there was actually when we got briefed there was dog
They said there's wild dogs on it might attack you
These dogs I watched these dogs attack a shark and kill a shark
What I watched two dogs kill a shark and that's how they ate
What kind of shark like a sand shark or whatever it was in those shallow water
They would actually one would come in the shark would go the other way the other dog would grab it
They they survived on this island alone because they were left there after a murder
They would they tried to start a colony on this island. We had a delivery FBI agents there
So when we got the briefing they said now, I'm the small boat captain of the little boat
We couldn't get close to the island. We would draft too much water
Uh, so I'm taking the people over and they see you know the cabs is listening
There's no marijuana running rampant on this thing. Nobody better get caught with marijuana
I fucking brought more marijuana
We all did and we kept it in the paint locker so dogs couldn't get palmyra island
Palmyra they started and that told that's amazing place go to the map
See what I want to see this thing on the globe. You should see that place
You should see palmyra island. It's just amazingly amazing that I where the fuck are you in the pacific right there?
Way out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the south pacific. See it. I was actually I actually had swim called volcano
Where it must be right palm up the island. No, I don't think it is just I don't know to be honest
I couldn't tell you but palmyra island was great. You know
I swam in the the steepest water in the world 36 000 feet deep you could put Mount Everest in it and it's uh,
Mariana's Mariana trenches. I swear. We had swim called that
And you know, you think wow below you is I mean forever five miles. How cold was that shit?
No, good warm water up at the top. Yeah, we are in what country is that that's in the middle of the pacific
Mariana's trenches. They're mariana trenches. Pacific. Oh, that is. Oh, yeah, yeah
Mariana trenches right a bit of a pacific. We had swim called our captain
I've been across the marian date line and I've been the equator and all that shit and you have the initiations and all that shit
Uh, man, you make they send you're bringing back a lot of memories. They sent a guy down into mariana's trench yet
He did they did in a in a like a like a little capsule. I think it was james cameron did it james cameron did it?
My memory's not bad for an old fuck, isn't it?
Wow
Yeah, my memory's not bad. She is new avatar movies. He just came out. No, but I love those movies
I mean, he's there you see it. Where there you go. See it. That's mariana's trench. Okay
Okay, not far zoom in. No, no, that's save the philippines. That's across the pacific
That that's where we, you know, not no, well, it's not far from the island. We were just on
Oh, no, no, and I said we went to swim call there actually at swim call
Damn, and we have we put guys up. We used to see the shocks in the pacific
We dumped trash and they'd be a fucking we had a captain who's the greatest guy in the world, man
He was an ex what I was rank wise and he ended up going off as he ended up retiring
I got invited to his retirement party. He was fucking great
He used to carry two pistols around. He used to shoot the fucking shocks from the bridge. He was a fucking great guy there
He used to get drunk with us. He was a boatsom mate, which I was which is the guy runs the boats and shit like that
So him me and the chief got to, you know, we were close
And he'd come up on the ship and you know, he'd ring bells and we're carrying the motherfucker because he's drunk
Yeah, you know me and the chief are carrying this great guy. He loved it
And fuck I tell the stupid ensign, you know, the guy's been the coast guard. Fuck you've been to the school. Give a fuck
Shut shut the fuck up you moron. You know what the fuck the cams have wrapped you can hit the bells that he's fucking
Use your common sense
Yeah, the marion trench is that the deepest part of the world's oceans
Uh pacifics the biggest like I heard it's like seven miles deep there. Yeah with 37 36,000 feet 36 something
I think uh that they can you can look that up. It's 36,000 which uh, there's 5,200 and something feet in a mile
So, yeah close to seven miles. Yeah seven miles. Look at that. It's uh, how many feet
It's 36,000 feet, right? Uh
Yeah, you're gonna see that. Oh, he's gonna change it
Thirty five thousand feet, baby. I'm pretty good about that. You are good
Uh, yeah, well when you go do things, you know that diagram that like diagram of the trench
Yeah, do you put this up on the on the video? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, see we don't do much of this
We gotta start doing it if people don't know they close that bottom box. Yeah
What don't you donate?
No, I don't donate to fucking Wikipedia. They changed so much shit. Oh, did they I haven't checked it out
They fuck with people so hard. Uh cross section sketch of marion is oh, wow. Look at that shit
I learned more about Wikipedia from people who call me and tell me or the fans, you know
They'll say larry. Did you know did you know I was on the notable notable alumni of my high school?
Me and Bobby Bonilla
Cardi B
I'm the oldest fuck on there
And I never graduated party me went to your high school. Yeah, and I'm young with me and
I never graduated there, but they got me as a notable fucking alumni. That's figure that fucking shit out
That's amazing. They had me. I was also in Atlanta. Rightly. So I they also have me in Atlanta
Uh as water I'm somebody called me up. It says
You know mr. Lawton. He called me mr. Lawton. I knew he was real young
He says you're on the same page as al Capone. I said what
What do you mean? He goes. Yeah in Atlanta al Capone you
Jimmy Burke whitey bulger
And larry lawton. I said get the fuck out. I looked at it's true. Hey, we were talking about uh
Do an acid in prisoner. Oh
World man. No, you're gonna get on the acid. We're gonna have a fucking trip. I should have brought something now
Yeah, you should have that would have been fucking would you do it? I would do it
Okay, I'll do a little bit. I would do half of what you did. Well, okay. If I do four you get to do two
Okay, that's fair. All right. Well, what I was saying we got to do it. Why do you bulger fucking?
Great show. Oh my god. I couldn't I wouldn't be able to talk probably. No, you would you know just be sitting here
Have you done this? Have you done is it? No, I've done mushrooms on acid. Okay
mushrooms
Asses a lot better than much to me some people just heard that uh people
Last a little longer. It's better once you do ask they did a study and asked the government
They took two military units. You can look it up. They took two military units
And they gave one acid one not LSD
And they did the mission twice as fast twice as more proficient
But they learned the government couldn't control these guys then
Once you do acid once
It's gonna open your whole fucking world up to another life and it's amazing
I've I've actually gotten things like ideas and shit
You know, you look at sting you look at a lot of people
They wrote songs and yeah back a lot of the greatest artists in the world, you know
Edgar Allen Poe people like that all fucking Einstein. I mean think of that
Maybe he fucking found that shit in that math shit. There's Einstein doing acid. Yeah
So, you know, but why did he bulger? He was experimented on in prison. Yes, absolutely. It was in Atlanta
They gave him lsd as in Atlanta. I was in prison. I was in that prison
I don't I don't I'm not that up to date on the conspiracy theory revolving around him
But I heard that they gave him acid and they try to control him and then like have him carry out murders
I don't buy that whoever come up with that. I don't buy that even a little
No, no, why wouldn't they do that? I mean, I don't think because I don't think acid or anything will do that to that point
Yeah, but you can you can break down the idea is you can break down people's minds with acid and no, you can't see
That's what you can't do pardon this brief interruption
But I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been using for over a year now
After it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist dr. Dominic D'Agostino on this podcast
I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition diet and longevity because as we get older
These things become more and more important. That is why I started using verso
Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential
To increase longevity. I take cell being
This one right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide or nmn based supplement paired with naturally derived
micronized
Trans-resveratrol and TMG these two chemicals are actually precursors to what's called nicotinamide
Idenine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD and NAD is essentially the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity
If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent fasting and you've gotten that feeling of
Super high energy or mental clarity is because your body is activating these genes called
Sirtuins, which are actually longevity genes the downside is as we age NAD declines when I found out
I could naturally increase my body's activation of sirtuins and naturally activate my body's production of NAD
I was sold and it is so much more affordable than doing NAD IV drips head on over to
ver
Dot s o and use the coupon code
Concrete at checkout to save 15% on your entire order. That's k on
Cret at checkout and get 15% off your entire order or you can just go to ver dot s o slash
k on cret it's linked below back to the show
Whoever told you that I don't know where you read it and I want to see that article
Because when you read all about acid and how it does works the brain it doesn't it opens it up
It gives you a better perspective of things. It makes you think outside the box
So it doesn't make you controlled by the government. Otherwise, they'd be fucking gave it to that unit that did everything proficiently
They would control you
So it makes no control
If anything but if they administer it to somebody in therapeutic doses go ahead and keep them in isolation
And feed them certain stimuli or give you know, give them you talk a deep shit now
But go ahead you basically like what they do with these prisoners is or like what they did with Ted Kaczynski in at harvard those those
lsd studies that they were doing on those guys
They were trying to with mk ultra. It was a
a program
To figure out mind control
Yeah mk ultra was a top secret cia project with the agency conducted with hundreds of colandescent experiments
Sometimes on unwitting u.s citizens to assess potential use of lsd and other drugs for mind control
information gathered
For psychological torture absolutely it didn't work. So whatever you're saying it did not work. That's we might have tried it
Right. It might not have worked
But it did work
There was one lady who actually sued the government because they were experimenting on her with this and they were doing it
What they would do is they were doing it in the military and they were doing it prisoners. That's the main thing
Uh, maybe that's where they that's what they did if you look at all this study and in universities too
I don't know how much they had to do
You know did did they didn't have any control over universities to do that?
Obviously with the military they you know, you're in the military and prisoners get fucking nothing common
But if you keep if you take one person right if you do or a group of people and you give and you give that i'm here
I'm glad you're here too. I love thanks for coming and you give them
LSD every single day right and you try to beat something into their head every single day
You keep you keep them high
and you keep
Introducing certain thoughts into their head every day or telling them certain things seems like a lot of work and trying it seems
Yeah, probably is a lot of work. I mean, but let me tell you why I don't know
I was with the guy and this is where I got to end it. I was with a guy
Great guy
He ends up getting a life sentence for acid 30 000 tabs and he ends up
He was he used to follow the grateful debt around and it was great because what he used to do
He loved the story tells he would go to a kmart and he didn't have kmart anymore and he'd buy the plastic kiddie pool
You know kiddie pool. Yeah the plastic not not blow up who you know the plastic
Hard plastic he'd buy one of those go to every venue to dead book playing at he'd buy a pool he would get
Tons of beer cases and cases of beer
ice
And then throw 200 vials or a hundred vial hit of acid in the water
Everybody get grabs that war grabs the grabs a beer at it. I think you need to get high. You know, that's how acid works
so
And he's fucking his stories he used to have because he he had a hundred hit a hundred hit vial
Leak into his body
He ended up selling his whole worldly possessions for two tickets to grateful debt in hate asperian frisco
a skateboard
and a fucking uh
To tickets and a skateboard and I don't know some oh fucking some bullshit. Oh guitar
He sold his whole world with his furniture everything he owned
How did this vial of a hundred hits of acid get into a system?
But whatever he didn't put the cap on right or whatever was an accident. Yeah, it was an accident now
He said he was fucked up for six months. Now you can't overdose on after that
I want people to know that you cannot overdose you can never die from it. It doesn't raise your level of your, uh
You know your blood pressure or your
Heart rate it doesn't do anything of that nature. I've done a lot of acid my day and I found that
Now i'm very controlling first of all if you do too much acid
You'll burn the serotonin in your brain and and you endorphins and serotonin in your brain
You're not going to get it and take you more and more and more as it took him that guy used to do
So you build intolerance. Yeah. Well, it's in you. You know once acid is in you
You know acid is in you the only way to check for acid too is a spinal tap
You know like uh, so there's no tests for acid, but
Acid can really fuck you up if you do it when you're young like before your braindale
If you do it, if you abuse it when you're a young teenager, but that goes for anything it goes for any drug
Absolutely, and i'm i'm a big advocate of legalizing all drugs all drugs fentanyl. I don't care legalize it people go
Why would you do that?
Well, if you're gonna go to that route of illegalizing some
Then why we haven't have glue people huff glue and they fucking go crazy
They burn their brain cells out
They go to home depot and they get this fucking poisons and shit for rats and fucking shit and they fucking do
So let's just legalize every you know make make everything that we think is somebody. Yeah, stop the control
I'm a I became a libertarian because I used to be a republican young republican
Then I was a fucking democrat because i'm more i'm very socially liberal very socially liberal
And more somewhat fiscally conservative. I think most people are that
You know people don't want to see their money wasted and they'll fucking shit. We pay it on
But they don't you do you give a fuck who marries who do you care about what people do in their own house? No
Absolutely no young people. I deal with a lot of young people
You I mean you're even your age you 40 down. Let's call it and
I can't know one that gives a fuck about any of that shit
No, because it's it's a non-issue but they really just write certain people like that
And it's it's such bullshit, but they were talking about drugs legalize them all they've done them
They're doing it now
You know, washington state is now decriminalized mushrooms and acid the lot of these they they're getting it now
But I don't know if they're just getting it or just the government's letting the control up
You know, I mean it was all about control
Yeah, the legalizing drug things these the legalizing uh drug thing would be great especially for you know things that people that are
Cut with all kinds of various substances that people don't know what the fuck's in it
Like you buy a you buy a gram of coke
You don't know what the fuck you're getting you're getting a cut with creatine borax fentanyl. It used to be vitamin
Vitamin b right the problem is the dealers in the us. What are you doing? Take a picture?
Yeah, take a picture people in the u.s. You want to take a picture? Yeah
Say cheese
They get it and they don't know what the fuck's in it. You know what I mean?
Yeah, like you can go to the store and you can buy a bottle of booze
Or you know, you could buy a fucking cigar. You know, it's tobacco. You know, it's you know, it's no no
What you say is correct when you want, you know
People should be able to if they want to go to a pharmacy get a prescription for cocaine
Which you can get you can get a prescription for cocaine. Can you yeah, I never heard it
Yeah, you could you should be able to go and do it and know exactly what the fuck you're getting
I agree
You know, I I just think you know, we have gotten away from you know, people say first of all both sides suck
I'm not gonna go there
We've gotten away from being we're not free. I love when people say we're gonna live in a free country
No, not you don't live in a free country. Well, yes, you do you you can do this
Listen, whether it's by money, whether it's by status, wherever it is, you know, george callan
You say if you ever listen to george callan, he's on fucking. I love his station on serious
I still listen all the time. He's got his own station on yeah, yeah
To carlons channel and uh, he's just so fucking hilarious and he uh, so george callan says listen
There's a club and you're not in it meaning like, you know, they they can do everything, you know, the government
And they just alcohol of course is anybody who tells me I don't believe in drugs any drug or even to legalize them all
The first thing I say to them is what do you think about alcohol?
If they say, oh, that's okay
All your arguments go out the window because listen many studies I deal with young people
You know that my program the reality check post the number one program in the country
Uh, did you know that 70 almost 80 79 or 78.9?
A kid's starting their first thing with alcohol. Mm-hmm. They don't start marijuana and start with hard drug or whatever
They start with alcohol. So that you want to talk about a gateway drug
Is it it's the easiest thing to get easily get isn't it crazy?
There's still states that are counties that don't let you sell alcohol on sundays. Oh, fuck. Listen to this
You want to get a best? I went to branch in missouri with a bunch of guys, right?
Matter of fact, one guy's a great guy. He fucking become a billionaire through bitcoin
He was a cardiologist. He sold his whole 401k for bitcoin at six dollars six dollars
Fuck
He rents yachts, you know those mega yachts. Yeah 250 000 a week like you and I would rent a car
Yeah, great guy too
But a bunch of us him and his wife and my you know go at the time. I'm single now letting everybody know
He's on the market. I'm going to all the strip clubs the gay clubs every club in the world
I don't give a fuck what club it is. I'm going to go into the gay ones. Oh, sure. I'll go to everyone
There's a lot of good gay clubs in and out of Key West. Oh, yeah, I love the keys
I used to go to keys every first of all when I was in fort lauderdale. I used to go to the keys every month
I just flew to the keys with a bunch of buddies. They have a plane and it took us an hour and 15 minutes from melbourne
And we flew down water
Fucking trip you go down you fly down you leave it noon you get there 130 you get out the fuck
We all were over the fucking the the bars the pool bars and shit the keys fucking we love the keys
You ever go you ever stay in a hostel?
You gotta fucking go to the keys and stay in a hostel to find a hostel hostels where they just rent somebody else could be in your room
Yeah, I've never done that. It's fucked. They're big in europe. Okay. Uh, I'm saying a bed. They'll rent the bed is what they'll do
Okay, no, that's right in the room. Okay, but though you can actually rent the bed now. We had four of us
Everyone there. I I mean I I'm so poor compared to these guys
Great guys though, you would never know it. You know what I mean? They're just really really good guys
And we're in a hostel and it was the we ended up having it was a four room hostel
But so we had it it was ours. No, right. It was so fucking funny, you know
Uh, my mulling buddy goes, you know, I've been around the world. There's a lot of stuff very very well
Nice guy never know you but I never stayed in a room
We had a lock up with the fucking with lockers in the room, you know fucking it was just but you got to do that
I'm gonna do that because you didn't they had the pools there. You don't know who you're gonna meet
It's fun and it could be a girl or a guy and you don't know it's not to do anything
You don't even have to meet them, you know, you know, it's just it's what it is you rent a bed
and it's called the uh
No name it's it it's oh my god. I keep fucking it up. It's not your average hotel and not your ny a
ny aa
Not your average hotel something like that motel and it was coolest fucking shit
I had so much fun with these but we do a lot of crap like that
And you know, what I found is
We go to Branson, Missouri. That's where we're going with this alcohol. So we go
Danny, we go to Branson, Missouri. Don't ever fucking go to Branson, Missouri. Why what's what are we talking about now alcohol?
Alcohol now not only alcohol you couldn't get you couldn't buy a fucking drink in the dolly pot and stampede
All this crap is shit
It is the worst fucking unless you're some religious freak that wants to just go there and I don't know go to a fucking
Jesus museum
Whatever the fuck you want to do
I'm not religious as you to get
And and I don't care about really meaning I grew up, you know, I was abused as a kid and all that kind of stuff
I preach you were abused by a priest is a kid. Yeah, I was 11 years old
It took you know, how many years took 30 years a matter of fact my author my book came out in 2013 bestseller
And gangsta redemption you got it. I gave you a book. Did I not I'm sure I did if I didn't have any RV
I'll give you give you and your engineer. Of course one. Yeah, I'll give him a sign if you had the best selling books
And we sell them all day and I own it. That's born at best moves ever made my life. But anyway
So when I wrote the book, I wrote it with an eight time new york time bestselling author
seventh time whatever it is now he's eight and
unbelievable book cause
It's true. It has to be vetted. Of course when you do all that kind of stuff and
He got things out of me that I wouldn't have ever ever and I get why people don't say things, you know
Because this was a priest. There was an altar boy and all that shit is all true
And all these fucking they're scumbags, you know
So this guy was able to talk to you and get this shit out of you when he was yeah
Well, it took me two years to write this book two years
I mean every single weekend for two days almost non-stop. I don't really think I golfed and then come home from golf
And I would sit down with you know him him where he was. He's actually here to say p
His name is peter golembach. You look him up. Look pull him up peter golembach
So
Let's go back to this. So what were you doing as a how old were you when you were an altar boy?
Where were you in new york new york? I was uh, we went to catholic school and your family was catholic
Yeah, I don't have bullshit. I ended up getting us kicked out. I uh the school and
Psychologists used to say that's when you started going crazy. You know, that's when you had your issues
you know, you're you're you're
you know, violent issues you're uh
Against everybody. So how did this all come about like the catholic priest abused in you. I was an altar boy and we were doing a
You get money to do funerals and weddings and it was after one of those and you know, he grabbed me
It wasn't anal penetration of that nature, but it was he dropped to his knees and I don't know what's going on
I was taking the blue. Yeah, I was taking my uh
The garment off whatever the fucking the back room and the vestibule there and the other kid went home
He had to go home quick and he said oh, we'll split the money later because you just make money
people don't you know
Give me money
And then the priest was there and he's just talking to me and you know, you respect those guys
That was a big thing back. Right. Right. You look up to him, right? Yeah
I mean they treat they're kind of like like father figures
Yeah, and this guy was pretty cool because he'd let us like
Didn't say anything. He knew he's taking the wine, you know, you know little kids
We're doing all the shit the kids how many uh other kids like you were there there
I
It came out that he did more. I don't know
I mean like how many got like you were an altar boy
Were there other altar boys that you were hanging out with that were also there with you were when that happened
No, no, no, no, no, I said the kid that worked though
It was a funeral wedding. Whatever we worked. He left. He says I got to go
But I mean like during that time period like like while you were
At the like during that whatever time period you were working at the church, right? There was other kids your age that would
Sure. Oh, how many
15 okay, you know, there's you do the mass and you do the shit right such fucking crap religion
I read the bible five times cover to cover really cover to cover as a book. I've read the korean three times
I've read the torah torah is really don't
That's the og. Yeah, that's all it is
That's are you jewish? No, I just listened to he's jewish. We just listened to uh, our shafir
Michael my co-host engineer coast just like him that guy bends is jewish
From israel me and him just listen to the our shafir's new uh stand-up special called jew. It's fucking amazing
funny shit, um
So, okay, so you got you it was after I read every every religious book
Most I believe is the buddhism. Uh, let's go back to uh, let's go back to the catholic church
Did you pull up peter golubak? Oh after one of the ceremonies are after that's my co-writer
Look, he wrote books with yogi bearer. You know, he said my book was the best bookie ever ever
He had he was at a baseball day. He goes you're peter golubak. You look look my book right there
gangster redemption
and he wrote books on billy martin he wrote books on uh
Like big-time people tony curtis. I think he wrote a book on the bronxu all best out 76 years old
He lives in st. Petersburg. Yeah, I told you. Yeah
Great guy used to come here all the time. We'd meet in a lando
But then we we I'd go to his house. He's an eclectic man. Oh man. Wow. He's shit. This has fucking, you know
Like fucking standpoint caught up cutouts. You know caught up this guy ballin or what?
Baller. Yeah. No, he's very very. He's a great unbelievable writer obviously modest
Yeah, you didn't know he plays softball in his team. Oh, yeah, you never know like kind of you know, he was a good guy
Really good guy. Yeah, but anyway when we wrote the book, you know, and uh, it's funny because he when we wrote that book
It took us a long time
Because I don't want to tell you know, I mean the crimes are one thing
You know, you did him. They're in the wreck at the the priest to but they they begin buzzing
See, I wrote if you look at my first chapter my book is who would fuck mrs. Armolino
And that was a lay teacher in the catholic school. No, and she hot. Yeah. Well, you know, you're fucking but I think that was because I
Trying to prove that you're not gay maybe or whatever it is. You know what? I mean, you don't know what you're doing yet that point
So, uh, like I say to people, I don't blame anybody on anything. I'm a very open individual meaner
I don't give a shit what you do in life with sex wise. I've been in orgs and fucking all the shit
I do it all because that I found out at my age. First of all, you know, it's funny
Danny
I'm 61 years old
I know I only got 20 years to live right now
If I'm lucky 20 years to live
And you know what? I have no qualms. You live longer than that. No way. Yeah, I've had open heart surgery fucking major
Major backs. I'm the first time I think I'm telling anybody that holy shit. I didn't think of that now. It's out there
Yeah, uh, I had open heart surgery. I had triple bypass
Hey, look in the camera
Holy shit. And do you know my back? I have a zippa from the top of my neck
Although to my ass they cut me open. They did an 11 hour operation on me. I got hurt in the service out in the Bering Sea
Yeah, and I got retired, but I crushed my spine. I have matter of fact, Danny
You see my neck. Yeah, I got five vertebrae in my neck and they go through the front
Yeah, they went in the front and 10 in the back. It's amazing 11 hour surgery. That was a
Long you would you have a clogged artery and yes, yeah, I never had a heart attack
You know people say my heart
You know what I tease people why'd they go in? Why they why'd they cut you open?
Why what what was going on with you? What were your symptoms?
Well, what happened was I was getting pain now. I thought it was pain from my back
And matter of fact, I was in bush gardens and I couldn't even fucking I could not even fucking walk to the car
I was that bad now my sister says she knew it and they were worried
No, I didn't know it now. I'm thinking it's my arm, but I'm thinking it's the back
You know my I have such a bad back. I'm gonna show you so when I did that
Then I ended up saying oh, I'll go to the VA and and I went and did a
Stress test they give you a stress test. Yeah, so they told me to wait there. Listen as you're like this
This is my fucking nature
We go in there and the fucking I do the stress test and I'm waiting the guy comes out and goes come on in
He goes I'm sending you the emergency room. I said no, you're not
He was oh, yeah, I'm sending you the emergency room right now. I said no, you're not
I'm going home
He looked he looked at me and he calls another doctor
And he says uh, I go I don't give a fuck if you call the director in here. I'm going home
Now you have they they made me sign a fucking paper to fucking get released. Yeah
My I hang out with doctors a lot of cardiologists the top cancer surgeon in the state
They're really really good friends of mine, you know
And so
I said and I felt good at this time. They gave me the stress test
Obviously they saw it and they wanted me in the hospital emergency room
So on the way home and this is in Orlando
Right at Lake Nona the great Orlando hospital there and I'm going back to Melbourne, which is the east coast
and I'm on I'm getting on one night 192, which is uh, uh
The road goes all the way to space coast and
So I'm on the road and I call my buddy in the birdo checkman who's a cardiologist. I said the birdo. This is what happened
He goes all right larry. He goes
He says he's funny guy. We talk about today. He goes
Go straight home. He goes. I'm setting up the uh, uh, uh, and you know check
Catholicization, you know just check out what it is. He goes. I'm a scent. I'ma get you some
Nitroglycerin pills. I don't want you to get excited. I don't want you to jerk off
I'm that's why, you know, we talk well friends. I go, okay. What do I do now?
I go to lunch where my friends are and we then other doctors are there and I said larry get the
We heard already. Fuck you. We're going to get an eight ball. Jerry. Yeah
Right and and I said to him so he uh
Because now my joke is you know, I'm better off doing coke than butter because I didn't have a heart attack
I had an artery so arteries get clogged by butter
But they laugh so anyway, I fucking uh, I go home after I take it they pull me in next day
He he goes and we're joking now. We're joking because of something I'm not going to say on the air that I was offered a million dollars and 30 days for
Okay, and I'll tell you I know you wanted to say on your show
So let's fucking ask so anyway, we go in and uh, so
I go into the operating room and they go in and all and I tell them this is a Tuesday
I tell him it's in the burdo man. I got a fucking reunion in the coast guard in virginia on friday
I go if this he goes, yeah, it's a little stent this year. You'll be out and you go to your reunion. I said, fuck yeah, you know
So I go in
Within
Five minutes. I think I mean, you know, I'm awake. You're awake during those things. It gets all serious. Holy fuck
He comes out and he stops everything. He may give some orders
And fucking on the way out. He doesn't even talk to me. He talks to Teresa at the time
I'm single but I had a girl at the time. I had a girl for 14 years. Actually. Oh, wow
I'm happy. Very happy. They anyway, we were swingers. So it's not even like okay. I had something to know
It wasn't sex. So anyway, we uh,
It's funny because I go out and uh,
He gets real serious and he says
emergency bypass surgery
What the fuck is that? You know, what the fuck?
Now word goes out in my neighborhood that this is emergency bypass surgery
and
Again, all these doctors that work at homes regional medical center and the biggest hospital that only are really huge
You got three of them
Is the head doctor. I mean and all these fucking people hearing and all of a sudden
I'm fucking in there and what has happened was my widowmaker was clogged
You you died. That's where john ridder died. That's where people die
So what is the widowmaker?
The widowmaker is the main artery. The main artery that goes to heart when that's when people die instantly
You know, you'll see them died or quickly of a heart attack. Just out of nowhere. Out of nowhere
It hits you right right it hits you and it's goodbye. You're dead right there. Yeah, he's good, man. The widowmaker. Yeah, you're all good, man
That's a hell of an engineer there. Yeah, he is. He really is. I'm a hire. I'm away from you
The uh, yeah, he's very he's right. Anyway, so what happened was
My heart was making another vessels through the heart navel clogs
So they couldn't stent it. No couldn't even get through it
They couldn't even get through it. No, how the fuck was I had other again
I had such little shit working for me and the date, you know, when I when I was at bush gardens
It says on these rides if you have a bad back or a heart don't go on these rides. I'm on every fucking
and it's so anyway, so we go and uh
I'm in the hospital and you know fucking shit happens quick
You're fucking like teams coming you start getting shaved and all this shit, but I'm up at the up in it in a room
And uh, I'm not feeling bad. You know what I'm saying? I'm not feeling bad
Right and all you know now my friends are coming up
Like what do you think I'm dying motherfuckers?
You know friends lawyers and guys I hang out a lot of nice people influential people but not assholes
I can't deal with I don't deal with drama
Asshole, we have one rule with my friends. No asshole rule period
So anyway, it has nothing to do with money. You know what I mean?
so
We're sitting there and all of a sudden
My buddy my buddy John. He's my best friend John Ball was a leading cancer doctor unbelievable great guy
Unfucking believable my best friend
And he you know, whenever I've been in a hospital
Won't rooms all that shit
But anyway, so all of a sudden I get I was ahead of seeing the doctor and then another doctor comes in
this big guy
He's dr. Campbell. He's the head surgeon of all the hospitals and he's you should see his fucking resume
Thoracic surgeon, you know all this kind of shit and wards and shit huge guy
Today we become friends. He wanted they all want to go out with me because they like the stories
They don't want to deal with doctor shit, right? So he comes in he goes. Hey, I heard you my new celebrity patient
Hey, what the fuck you talking about? Who you?
What the fuck you are?
He goes i'm dr. Campbell. He goes and I was requested to come here by dr.
Bowman lowski
That's my buddy
Once I knew that
Fuck I'll tell you how I fucked with him, but that was you know, okay. He goes takes him. I'm in the room. I go
He shows it there. I said, you know, I don't feel that bad. He goes. Well, we're gonna surge you go
He takes my you know, the the rhetoric he puts it on a board because you see that
Because most people are dead
Because you are lucky most people are dead
I said I actually feel good. I go can we just wait till thursday because I have to go do some
He goes if you leave this hospital, you're dead in 48 hours. I guarantee it
Now now it's got real for me. I said, okay
So they shaved me up a bum and this is late late at night now
And at fucking six in the morning the teams are there and they fucking take me into the fucking thing whatever it is
You know the operation triple bypass
They do the bypasses and you know, they take the heart out of your body, you know that
And they fucking they did the triple bypass
And I checked myself out of the hospital early
You know, uh, I was supposed to be there in a few days. So what so they replaced the artery? They actually take vein. See this
Yeah
To here now you look at this. You see this. Yeah, I broke my bicep my bicep tour
Okay on another incident
It tore from here, which is the worst tear you can have in a bicep. Right. It's not tear. They have it's tear
Yep, I see it and they can't repair it because they have
artery clips here from my heart
artery clips
Yeah, they took they I have I have a card in my wallet. This is a metal in my body
So from here to here they took this whole vein out. No way and they put the vein in my heart
So they replaced the widowmaker with your forearm vein. Yeah, well, they do the fucking yeah bypass
It's just bypassing that area. Some people get pig arteries. Well, I don't know where that comes in or I think it's pig valves
Pig valves, right?
So anyway
The surgery goes well, like, you know, all my doctor friends tell me listen how how how long after they
Fucking put you back together. Were you out of the hospital? Well, I checked myself out in three days three days after
Now they want you there about five
But my buddies tell me they I deal with doctors every day and they say listen you you you get fixed at the hospital
And you repair home
You recuperate home because there's no diseases. There's no
Shit hospitals are bad. They're really not good. Once you don't need them. Don't fucking use them. You know what I'm saying?
Don't use it. Right. So anyway, uh, so the doctor Campbell, listen, you know, let let this happen, uh, july was three years
Okay, three years july
and my my uh
The the doctor
Got the Campbell
I had something I was at the gym and I felt something again and
Wasn't this is later. Yeah, no, that's six months ago. Not even and uh, I felt something so
I have never been back to the doctor again. I I know I'm crazy and you're supposed I'm a va event
I'm also disabled american vet with the vet veterans coast guard. So I all I care about is getting my blood taken twice a year
That's all I care about because I know blood doctor. That's the key
That's the key
Fuck doctors. They're gonna make you do something that you don't want to do. So anyway, I uh, I
Fucking I go to dr. Campbell the head fucking guy. We become friends. We go out to dinner
He comes out with my friends now because if they don't like I found out about a lot of doctors
They don't like to hang out with the people they work with and all the no
Yeah, they want to get away from that and I want your normal guy crazy like me
You know, they want they want to they want to like conversation at dinner
I kind of know crazy guys. They love that shit crazy, but it's nothing, you know, nothing too serious
Not life or death and we vacation all the time just was on a virgin virgin
Virgin voyages with british brand's ship
Twice already, you know, we all vacation together. We do a lot of shit
So anyway, he says to the doc. He goes I go in and he does a full work up on me
And he goes, when when did you see a doctor? I said, I didn't see no doctor. He goes, come on Larry
I said, fucking, you know me doc. I'm not doing it. You know and
So he says, all right, but I'm gonna set you up with Greco
You know me place cards and kind of like in the fringes of your group
I didn't know he knows my brother knows a lot of people
So he goes, I'm gonna call him and you're gonna get that because he's not seeing anybody
But you're gonna be with him. I said, okay
So he calls dr. Greco
We this just happens not long ago actually and he calls me says hey, listen Leonard
He goes, I got a special patient for you. You got to take him
Obviously, he's the head surgeon everywhere. You got to do what he says. He goes, you got to take him. He's difficult
He won't listen to you
He's fucking he's funny as hell
But he'll kill someone for you. So that's good. You got him in your pocket. That's what he says to the guy
I swear to god
so
Now I know who dr. Greco is of course, he plays cards with our friends
And I go to the card game. I play occasionally. So I walk to the card game and everybody knows but he's here and all the shit
He's don't know what to think about me already knows. I'm crazy and I'm known as crazy
So I walk up to the table. I said, I heard you are my new cardiologist
You look to me everyone's clever. Here's how it goes. I don't do appointments. I'll text you
I'll fucking bring a sandwich and we'll fucking have lunch to do whatever the fuck want to other than that
I ain't doing this shit
He fucking looked he goes. Everybody's fucking dying there. He's glad. He's so fucking crazy and it's funny. You know, I judge
Uh, Danny is because
I still never seen him
I never seen him. No
Listen, I'd listen to my body. I get my blood work done and if I feel bad, I mean, I'll get I'm I'm no death wish
Or any of them and I actually I had a blood issue but and they took care of it
What kind of blood issue who my white blood cells?
well down to
120 they thought I had leukemia
The v8 took me in and had to do the thing in the spinal whatever the thing
Bone marrow thing, you know, cancer and all that pets
As a pet scan goes through the body
My doctors blew them away and I didn't feel that bad and they checked me for HIV and every every
Everything you can think of what were white blood cells and I'm clean never had a disease in my life
Matter of fact, I'm on prep now that I'm single. You know what that is. No
Prep is you can never get AIDS or anything like that if you're in a group setting
Like if you're fucking in orgies, have you ever been in orgy? No, never college
I know he's thinking how many you know, wait a minute everybody. I'm looking at Danny right now
I hope they put this up
You could see he's thinking that his wife is fucking
Listen, I'm trying to think of how many people qualifies as an orgy never it's never been more than the north three people
Uh, I think four. Okay. I've never been in an orgy. I have three some that have many and I'm four somebody I've been in
Seven eight. Oh good for you. Yeah
Yeah, oh fuck I go to clubs, you know, you go down to south florida has the one of the best in the world
It's called trapeze
One of the best in the world, you know tamper this area has a lot of fucking great clubs
You know the best strip clubs in the world. Oh, not only strip clubs swingers clubs that kind of yeah
One of the best swingers clubs is in Kissimmee. It's called secrets
If they took an old hotel and they actually sell the fucking rooms and their condos
And I mean people walk by with the window open you can go
And they got the pool in the middle and it's all fucking swingers. It's fucking phenomenal
Great place. Then I got a bondage room and all that kind of shit. Yeah
Fuck I love that shit sick fuck. Now, you know, it is I can't be so what is that stuff you're talking about?
That makes you so you can't get aids or anything prep
prep
What exactly is it?
Well, it's different like I take it to coat. It's called the covey. He could look it up. He could put he could pull prep up
You won't your doctor friends like always like telling you about the new dip like the new medicine
Oh, absolutely hacking one of the best I get what's that you're gonna fucking laugh at this your audience
I take a thing called try mix try mix. Okay now
I could get a heart on and nothing like no problems or anything like that
But if you want a mega have you have taken Viagra? Absolutely
This shit will make Viagra look like a fucking goddamn
Aspirin
Really?
It's a needle you're shooting your dick make your dick harder than Chinese arithmetic
I had this is no joke swear to my children. I had a heart on the other day for 10 hours
Pre-exposure prophylaxis prep
Reduce the risk of getting HIV from sex about 99. They can't say a hundred. You know that
99% prep reduces the risk of getting HIV
Interesting in injection drug use by injection even by fucking people who get it most people do get it
Is that why you take the injection or you take the pill? No, no, no, no the injections where you get the aids
No, I don't I I've tried Viagra. No, I take no the prep
Oh the prep is a pill one one a day pill and I'm religious. I mean, you know, I just do it my vitamin
I'm a vitamin guy. I used to only take one drug for like, uh, what do I do?
Oh, I take for my back a toadac, which is good. I've got bad back
It's anti-inflammatory. You have to take that and then vitamins and all that kind of stuff
I don't want to die. Are you on the roids?
No, I never did roids in my life
Never even when I benched three, you know, I never could get to 400
I was and I always will tell everybody this
If you're young out there and you're working out and I go to LA fitness and I smile
Don't do heavy weights. I did it and it fucked me up. I mean my joints and my thing and my arthritis and the shit
I did heavy weights. I I used to bench 375. I'm trying to get to the 400 club
And I was about 200 at that time
So I was you know, trying to get to double my weight, which is a massive then I used to squat
I used to squat in your 600 pound
You can't really build muscle and pack on muscle unless you do heavy weights
No, you could buy you actually build like you're right short reps
Short reps. Yeah, but you do it the right way though. But you don't need it. There's no
Fucking justification. There's lots of benefit of having more muscle mass. Absolutely. Listen. I lost I lost
55 pounds in the last six months. I was 260
I'm 206 so 54 pounds
I lost that and and I do intermittent fasting. You want to talk about going down a rabbit hole?
I'm a research nut if I get into something I fucking know it and
It's it's one of the most the best things you can do and it's not it's not even like you can eat anything you want
It's not a diet
But after 12 hours your body automatically goes into ketosis
Starts eating at its own fat. And did you know your fat is the best energy you can put in your body?
Yeah, because it's already shit out the fucking crap and you're pissed out all the crap
So you take the uh those nutrients and the fat and it burns your fat and you burn your fat
I was 260
And again, I was a big guy
I'm still a big guy, but it's it's I'm
Listen, I'm short, you know, and I was I was heavy, you know, and I feel the difference man
I'm not kidding you Danny. I feel great. I can't believe you never done the roids
Nope, I never did it and I knew guys who did it never ever touch roids never take testosterone. I take testosterone now. That's roids
Well, I take that's anabolic steroids. It's the one you shoot right in your thigh
Yeah, and I only take it very low dose just like replacement therapy. Exactly right. That's exactly right. My my my
testosterone went down to one something
And yeah, and you know, but anyone again people think oh, you don't have sex
No, I used to fuck did a lot of shit, but it was the energy that you feel better now
I'm up at 600 or seven, you know, okay, you're aged. That's what I try to stay at about your age
So it's funny. I tried the roids for one month
And it I just wanted to experiment because I heard I hear all those great things about it cognitively
Nothing wrong with the hch is that gives you way more drive, you know cognitive
I heard tidy nuts. So that's what I heard. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it shuts down your testicles. So
I said, I like fuck. I want to try this. So I try to I tried it for a month
I wanted to see what it was like did my blood work and my testosterone was lower
When I was on it then before wow, so I did my blood work before to make sure I knew my basics and everything
I fucking did you ask a doctor? Yeah, the guy my doctor is like, he's like, I don't I don't know why it's lower
Is he must not be doing enough? I got a phone number. We could call on air that would know that answer
I should have never fucking done it. You know that I literally have a phone number. We could call on a
What are the
No, one of the best blood doctors in Florida guys a great friend of mine. No, I'm a venarski
He was on my podcast. He's from Ukraine. Really? He fucking did a great fucking show. You should have him on
Unfucking you want to talk about shitty? No, so smart. He was he's a russian
He was he was at russia when you know, he was at russia. You pull up my does he monitor your uh, your royal news
Yeah, you know, I never did fucking steroids. I know you like to call testosterone, but it's anabolic steroids
No, it's not it is a difference. You'll ask him testosterone is the same as an anabolic steroid
It's not a bodybuilder crazy dose you're taking right you're taking you're taking a real
Do you know what hgh is?
Yes, they say that's very good today. Very good for you. Yes, what they say very good, but very expensive. Yeah about liver king
He's taken $11,000 a month worth of hgh. Yeah, what a wacko that fucking guy, huh?
I mean, I I only find I only like uh followed the fringes fringes of it. You know, I didn't know who he was
I wouldn't know any of that shit because I yeah, he was taking so he was on all these podcasts lying about because they're all asking them
How'd you get your physique? You're not near took steroids never took anything no supplements and other things like no
Just liver brother, but they found out the one of these
I know because rogan said something. Yeah. Oh, yeah
Everyone's like you're lying you're lying you're lying and somebody found some leaky leaked emails where he's like listing all the shit
He's taking taking this must testosterone this this much hgh this much deca all this fucking shit
He was taking so he finally came out and like admitted all the stuff he's taking and he's taking enough
He spends more money on steroids every month
He spends enough money to buy a car every month on steroids. What yeah
Wow, you know, it's funny because uh, i'm a believer
In trying anything like drugs. I'm a totally pro drug guy
Understanding yourself
Understanding you know, I talk I teach this because you know, I don't know your audience. I'll let your audience know
I'm the only program and he only x con in united states was recognized on a florida united states congress
And he only x counters an honorary police officer in the whole country
And uh, when I teach teach certain things about and I testify and stuff
I'm a very uh, I like to research and do things and I'm a believer in trying things
Like you know, you said I'd not that I didn't I just never had the opportunity to do
How long did you try to start taking the testosterone?
uh
Five years five years ago and what did you notice when you started taking it just my uh
Just my energy. I mean I felt yeah, I felt you know, I'm a guy who doesn't need much sleep
I'm a four hour night. Yeah, maybe five
Fuck yeah, I just like I mean yesterday. I went to bed at three. Well, I drove here. I said fuck it. Let me drive
Yeah, this morning I got here at
5 36
Didn't go to bed till seven and got up at 11 and uh, I feel great
If I don't get eight hours of sleep. Yeah, some people like that. I'm as useless as a glass hammer
You know, I think I don't know if I learned that from the mob days or or uh from prison
You know, you know sleep with one eye open in prison. So, you know, I don't know where I learned it
But it was always, you know, and I always learned that when I was younger is you know
The early bird catches the worm kind of deal, you know, and it's true back in the other day
The hustler who was there first got the deal got the something
So I think it's different today and I think you're right. Obviously you're right physically and then that you know that regard
but I look at it now like
Like the shot I take people whenever I tell me I got taken injection in your dick
So fucking what are you?
You eject the testosterone in your dick not testosterone. I take
Trimix
Oh the trimax. Yes. You were just talking. Yeah. Now that trimix is the best thing I've ever done
I literally had a hard-on for 10 hours just the other day
Holy you can only do it about three times a week is where you want to do
You know, you can't do it back. So you shouldn't do it back. So what so you would you put a fucking needle in?
Yeah, but again, everybody has that reaction Danny
Everybody how deep into your dick does the needle go?
Into the chamber. Oh, no. No. No. No. That's deep. No. Yeah, but that's like that was like a half inch
Yeah, listen, you're going halfway. You're going like pretty deep into the shaft
You know, you're getting into the carbon over they call it. You know, they show you to give you a video
I need I need to pull up the shit pull it up pull up try mix and pull up the video
There's a video and they show you how to do it. Well, how do you say it?
Try mix tri mix. I'm telling you, I hope somebody in your audience try I want to get a sponsorship
I'll try it
It does not hurt. I don't want to take a shot though. I want to take a pill. No, they don't have tri mix pill
Yes, we understand now the reason
Oh, yeah, fuck it. Oh, no, it's it's actually take it off the screen. Let's see. Let's see what it looks like first
Oh, you got if there's no dicks in it. We can put it on this. It's gonna be a phoenix
It's gonna be, you know, and its effect should last about one hour. Yeah
It lasts me preparation for your injection
Gather the material you will need and place I do this exact thing
Your bed will you'll be sitting down make that big of that screen? Yeah full screen out
Be sure to wash your hands with soap and water stop it. No, no, don't stop it
What are you guys homophobic as long as this is not on the screen?
Are you guys homophobic? No, I'm not. I just don't want to be oh my what's wrong with that
I can't believe they're showing this
It looks like me. Look at it. It looks the tattoos. This guy's dick is out. Yeah, so what?
After cleaning the top of the trimmix file using the alcohol swab
Allow it to air dry prior to inserting the needle
I want to I want to see if they can show you by wiping the area with an alcohol. Look what he's doing
It does take
Pull the needle cover straight off and place it on the table
I get the exact same needles
After removing the cap draw up an amount of air into the syringe equal to the amount of medication
You will be drawing up right try one. You need try one first
I do too
And I'm gonna tell you what my urologist told me about it
What was the conversation like trying to convince this guy to do this video the vial of money? Hey, bro
Take your dick out. I would have did it money
Hey, we're gonna tell you something off. We're gonna have you fucking pull your dick out
And we're needle still inserted inject it and you're gonna reject it. I'll post it on our youtube channel
Oh my god, I recommended this and everyone's gonna know who you are because
All your tattoos push the plunger to remove any air bubbles. I have a tattoo down there
You should be sitting upright or slightly recline when performing the injection. I I'm staying
I usually shoot in his dick, but if all right sit, right?
So that you can clearly see the injection. Oh, no, no, you don't hit the vein or a cavernosa
See the kevin on the side
Oh
Be sure to avoid all visible blood vessels while ejecting
See what he did
Please click the link at the end of this video to now you rub it by step injection instructions
Which includes he should rub it and he's gonna get a massive erection after administering the injection
Rub it. He showed up now. You know he's jacking his wiener off. No, he's not
No, he's the Danny. He's fucking rubbing. He's jacking himself off now. He is
Wait, it is important to follow the dose regimen your doctor has prescribed
Increasing your dose too. I never I never saw this video
You did put this on the screen, right? All right, you should you'd get a lot of views not monetized
Yeah, we would not be monetized. Jesus Christ, you know, I I'm not fucking sticking a needle in my dick to get hard
I get hard, you know, you don't want to do it. I don't want to do that. Okay. Let me tell you what happened
Uh
I'd rather chew my viagra. I'm gonna I'm gonna tell you the fact of that. I'm gonna taste that that's nothing
So I'd call my urologist about this
He's another friend and he said I go Andy. I said, I gotta ask you about something. He knows I party whatever he goes
Larry he goes with you. You're better off with try mix than bag
Really way better. First of all, it's better and not only that better for you. Yeah, he goes it goes directly into the penis
So it doesn't like vagra goes through your whole system. Yeah, you get a headache
Fucking flush still that kind of shit. You're trying to see Alice. Yeah, I did
Is that this is that do you get the headache from see Alice? Yeah, same thing. I
Both of them suck for me. Now, you know, it's funny everybody
I I really didn't need one to get an erection, but you know, you want to get better and better
Yeah, I don't need it for the erection
But I can fuck way longer and I can go like three or four times if I take a viagra
Fuck it. Let me say it's so much better. Well, let me tell you what happened. So the headache just sucks
No, we don't get those to try me. Let me tell you what's happened. So
I'm having it's me a friend and his wife
We're having a threesome. Okay, and he's a porn star
right
And uh, oh he used to do a lot of porn. I mean a lot he didn't recognize well, but uh
and so
You know, we've kept friends and and then we just swing it and anyway, so
So we're his wife and after the we're hanging out. We're actually in my RV
We're in my RV
So it's only
A couple years ago. Remind me not to sit down on the couch on your RV. Huh remind me not to sit down
Stop why are you guys so fucking homophobic shit? I'm not. I just don't want to sit in the fucking pile come
Don't file to fucking people
the uh, so anyway
We're hanging out how funny would be to go in larry's RV with a black light
No, actually, I have a cooking show so
So listen to this so we go there and uh, we're hanging out and and you know
And I said to him
I said
How the fuck I'm gonna say his name. How the fuck do you keep a fucking heart on like that?
I he's 35. I get it and he goes larry. You're good. I said no
I want to get what how the fuck are you getting hard like that and staying hard and you're still hard
and we had checks a bunch
And he goes well, I gotta tell you what all the all the porn stars do
He goes we do try mix
Okay, what's try mix?
He did what you did. We went online. He showed me
I got on those online doctors did the shit. Yeah had the shit and fuck it's expensive
How much is it 400 dollars for that vibe?
I might try it. I might give it a shot telling you
Once you do it, you're gonna realize it doesn't even hurt
People people have the same fucking reaction Danny. Oh, put a needle in my dick. Stop it. You're fucking dick isn't a fucking goddamn
Gonna fall off. I mean, right I must be sick because I go slow
I have to see the side if it has no side effects none. It's that's worth the fucking. None worth the prick none
And my urologist told me that right. He writes this prescription. I don't have to go to a fucking regular
I need you. I need your doctor's phone number
Sure, so let's know what happens. So well, I'll give it to you. So let me tell you what happened. So
Yeah, we're gonna go into the area's rv after this. We're gonna fucking inject our dicks. You ready, Austin?
I happen and I keep I keep a vial and needles in my rv and I keep one in my wall
Perfect. So and I even have the antidote
Because you you can get a hard one too long and I have I've shot mine down. Oh really? Yeah, okay
The longest hard on ever was just the other day. Uh, three four days ago 10 hours long
I I I ejaculated three times
10 hours. I swear to my children. I ejaculated three times
three times
It's hard to go you you I have this is no joke
I have young people and this is
On my honor, I have young people. You're a younger say holy shit. You're no way you're 61
You know 60 at that no way you that age because I got energy, you know from myself
And now with a hard on don't quit and you can fucking control it and you can fucking come and then keep fucking
Holy shit that shit's like when you were 20, you know, I mean when I was 20
I was like that, you know now, of course, you're not
And and it's let's say the testosterone supposed to do that too. There's nothing like that
No, it's obviously get your hormone level and obviously we all know and we all know sex is in between the years
I mean everybody knows that I hope they do
Uh, it's and it is and you know, I love porn. I love all the kind of shit and everything else
But that's why I like that place the secrets
But anyway, so and I'm not I'm not kind of guy can't be a bland guy. I I don't believe in monogamy
I never did
None of my wives were I never believed in monogamy. I don't believe it
I think it's so unnatural to be with one fucking person
Yeah, it's definitely unnatural if you look at the animal and if you and if you look not on the animal
Can you look up back in the old days? I don't know where it came
I think it's again biblical and and religious thoughts all this shit for for no fucking reason
And now you're a vilified if you have fucking who cares, you know as a
The liberal side of me. I love people. Oh, why should we gay?
What marriage does a gay marriage? I says who gives a fuck? I don't this that's them
Right. Oh, what what happens if they marry a goat next? Good. Marry a fucking goat
What do I give a fuck if he wants to marry a goat? I could give a fuck
What he does behind his own fucking wall or door as long as they need hurting a kid
I'm very protective of elderly kids. Yeah
Do the fuck what you want. Have you ever heard of gain's wave therapy?
No, pull this up. Austin. It's called gains with the z wave therapy. I heard it from this dude ben greenfield
It's this you like that try make shit. Yeah, I love it. It's a place in
Not Tampa. It's in my average water four hours though. So this gains wave shit
It's a fit. It's a there's a clinic in fort lauderdale. It does it
They have all that shit. They put your dick in like this fucking red light bubble
Yeah, there you go. What and it's supposed to make your dick like way bigger hit that it makes your dick
Watch the video. I don't care. It doesn't show any dicks. It doesn't show any dicks
Oh, this is what Larry wants to see dicks. That's the problem
Full screen. I've seen my shit. I saw a view. I'm fucking kidding inevitably suffers. Oh, what happened?
You know, there's this so this shit. So it's like a infographics. All right, let's watch this
How does function your quality of life inevitably suffers poor blood flow is the main cause of ed
Along with buildup of microplague age is another factor because testosterone greatly declines as males get older
And and so they you know doctors don't I mean the government don't want they want you to go to doctors
They don't want you to have testosterone and certain prescription meds are also
Contributory factors to ed PDE five inhibitors can help but pharmaceuticals are not for everyone as they can cause some unpleasant side effects
And men with certain medical conditions should avoid these drugs altogether
Thankfully, there is a solution with the no known side effects called gains wave
This treatment uses high frequency low intensity sound waves to increase blood flow to the penis activating cell and tissue repair
I'll take my shot quick in office treatment. I told you I'm good for the next 18 20 years. I'm dead
Simple I like to keep doing what I'm doing. I'm good just for those with ed
Younger men have started treatments to optimize their performance and keep things running in top shape
Patients after treatments have enjoyed increased ability to maintain erections more intense orgasms
Closer relationships with their partners increased confidence and vitality and an overall enhanced sex life
We've treated more so go see if we find some pictures of this uh
What is it?
It's just a fucking machine. Close it out. It's a sound wave machine. They pulsate sound waves through your dick
Am I buying look at the before and after maybe I mean that's that's a fucking drawing
Look what it does to your fucking the veins. I'm gonna get it. I get keep going
uh go to
Go to about the top
Enjoy and go to
How it works. Uh, no, you get you have to be in the brain. No, uh, dany
It's the a lot of it is the brain. Yes. You think this is a fucking this is a shill. Yeah, I do
I do
I've seen what I want to see a picture of the machine that I've seen what works and I'm not buying this
I mean, I'm not but go back to about
But it's weird. Yes sound waves. Yeah
75 success rate
High frequency
Low intensity sound waves to improve blood flow in the penis removes micro plaque
It stimulates the growth of new blood vessels. So anyway, why don't they do that for the heart?
So this guy ben greenfield said he does this once a year and he says it's making his dick big like huge
Well, first of all, we know that's not true. You can't can't gain size
But any penis machine or any of that shit? Really? No, I heard you can. No, you cannot hear heard
there's also guys that do this shit called uh
Seminex funny how I know all this seven minutes for fucking the more coming
No, no, no, but you heard that you know DHT is like the main DMT DHT
Dihydro testosterone. I like DMT. Oh, yeah. Yeah, everyone loves DMT fucking. I go see
Oh, I got it. You want?
No, um
The DHT is like the main
Uh compound in your body that's responsible for dick growth and hair loss
So there's these kids now that are on reddit that are like trying to find DHT creams
And they're rubbing it on their dick trying to make their dicks grow
Look, there's the gains wave
So they fucking they put this magic wand all over your dick and they use the sound waves to make it
I don't buy it
Listen, I'll tell you a few things I don't buy listen. I have no hair. I I went got I went how happy he is
Yeah, of course he is he got paid
If I just paid a day they took the picture when he was fucking broke
No, uh, you know, what would you other hat? What would you other have a uh, a bigger dick?
I had a pretty big or more money. I don't worry about that like money money or dick size. What's more important to you?
Money
Really, you don't have a small dick and then fucking tens of millions of dollars
I don't mean I this is gonna sound bad. I got a I got a pretty big dick. I'm seven inches by six inches to conference
Okay, wow congratulations. Yeah, it's fat and so it's I got I got pictures to prove it
Let me tell you what happened. You're gonna laugh. Love this. Take your word for it. You're gonna love the air your homophobic
I'm fucking with you. Let me tell you what happened. I
Okay, oh you see
The uh, I just watched a guy stick a needle in his dick for like 10 minutes with you
You watch porn. I'm not homophobic. Do you watch porn sometimes? Okay, then then you ship me because you're always watching a dick
Uh
So we're sitting there and uh, I go to california. I don't know if you knew this
I went to california on a trip. I went on no jumper. I went on yolo and I was going on an NBC show
Okay, NBC live the biggest show in california was it's 11 30. It's called NBC live and it's uh,
It's a big show of like a variety show and they highlighted my cigars. Oh, no, sure. Yeah big deal
Well, do you know who carilla is?
Yeah, yeah, uh, the slut whisperer guy. Yeah, carilla is the he has the assholes. Uh, yes assholes live forever. Yeah
He's a friend of mine. And oh, no, sure. Well, yeah, he fucking invites me out and this was on april 4th
Okay, i'm gonna fuck you up now
So on april 4th, uh, april 20th. I meant april 20th was pot day, you know, it's my natural marijuana day, you know
420 you know 420. Yeah, of course
So he
High as a celebrity chef
And they throw a party for me coming out there and I brought my whole team out there. I brought six people
Yeah, six of us total. I think there was six of us total
So I brought my guys out there and uh, i'm going on all these shows from no jumper with adam and that was funny
But it's you know, lean at a plug is is uh, yeah, they're like he like hangs out the porn
He was like, I said man, but it goes three somebody goes. Yeah, come on. I said, whoa, and anyway
You're gonna laugh at this. So we go to uh, so carill throws me to party first
And it's on 420 and I think it was a wins a great fucking guy
And they had you ever hear didn't daniel silva
He's a a tattoo artist to the stars. He has 4 000 hours an hour to tattoo
He killed it. He killed a guy. He killed a friend in his mclaren not yeah mclaren wasn't mclaren
Oh, yeah, I think it was a mclaren. I might know him. I don't know. Yeah, anyway, young kid
Really nice kid and he got they they thought he was drunk. He did to he's all right. He's out
You know, he's and he's tattooed but he's very cautious about drinking or anything
But a nice respectful kid. So at this party, I bring some of my friends hollywood friends
So I bring them and then I also they also bring porn stars
I want you to pull something up. Can you pull something up pull up?
Even though don't put it on the screen
put up pull up porn up
But don't put it on the screen. I just want to show you something and I want everybody to listen to this name at home
Jane
Pull up jane wild. What are you doing? What did where do you go? Just google imager?
No, but I want to show you something in that
Okay, all right. Fuck it. We're gonna watch porn podcast
Listen, I'm the break you if you're fucking phobias. Okay. Go now put jane wild
Up he did he did he searched her that's her. Okay. No go to the one that's 31 minutes. It says it's like a whole thing
Uh, yeah, right there
Okay, 31 minutes. It's like, uh
10 scenes or oh my god
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, look at the 31 her asshole is right there fucking top size of my face
See that top 10. Nope, right there
open it
I see this now. Oh my god
So wait, wait, wait, get rid of that. Where do I show you something here? Now scroll into the movie
to yeah, right there
Little more. Okay, a little more
Little more. She's got the number one. Wait, she got look at this thing. She got the number one ass in the world
Keep going
You can drive a truck through her asshole. Let's I'm gonna show you something amazing. Keep going a little bit
You're gonna see he's two black guys
I'm smoking weed out of her ass
Look now look at his face. You know, oh, you got to put this up on to me
Oh, is that carril right next to you? Yeah, oh billy my guy grill me
There's some sort of fucking bong in her asshole. Yeah
Now that video he's watching everybody is a private video obviously, that's incredible. Wait a minute. It's not done even better
That's incredible. So you can turn off the porn Austin. You're good. This guy's a mega producer
Okay, I won't mention his name
Look
Look at that while we were just sitting there. She's still got the shit hanging out her asshole. Look at this
We didn't even know what the pictures would take you to see
Now look at this one. Look at that one. Look at that was a different one
She's smoking a joint she's on her hands and knees she's smoking a joint and she's got a bong hanging out of her butthole
And I'm behind her smoking and Larry's behind her hitting the bong
That is inserted in her butthole. That's California's legal
On an American flag
Uh towel
That is that is the most American thing I've ever seen now. He throws the most amazing parties in. Oh, yeah
It's great. Yeah, I get it
So he does this whole thing for me and and they had uh, he had entertainment and
A celebrity chef who refused weed and stuff. I smoke weed, but I'm not a big weed
You know weed is the worst drug for me. What's your favorite drug acid? Really? Oh, daily you take out? No
No, no, no, no, I don't do any drug daily. Okay. How often do you take acid?
Uh, I I don't even uh depends depends that I have a concert or going out certain things or something like that
You know drugs to me are again. I'm a pro drug
Weed is the word I I have a license. I have a medical marijuana license
But it's the worst drug for me because I can't function
No, I fucking want to sit and eat
I want to fucking that that'll get me to fucking 80. I was 305 was my heaviest and
I could fucking eat, you know, I love to eat and you get me a weed
Holy fuck. I don't want to do anything. But we I mean, you know, it's pretty good drug. Uh, ketamine
Uh, never tried it. G. You ever hear G? Yeah, I've never tried it. That's pretty good. Uh, you know certain drug DMT
Yeah
That's great. You want to see jesus, right? So see the elves. Yeah, I see whatever the fuck. There's apparently like elves that live
You know, it's really like that. You know what it's like. It's like a la wasca that's ayahuasca. Yeah, the same thing
Yeah, you know, it's just different. It's kind of different way making it exactly and it comes like a vape pen, you know
That's right. Right. I've heard that. Yeah, my buddy took uh hit it from a vape pen. Yeah. Yeah
So if you hit it from a vape pen or if you smoke it, I heard it only lasts like 10 minutes
Maybe 20 but the ayahuasca lasts for an hour. That's a whole day. I had a
Nephew go down there and he you know, so in there fucking see he's into that shit
I mean, you know, all that kind of like commune stuff in there. Yeah
And he's for amazing stuff though. And you know, all of these drugs again
When you let drugs enhance, you know, I had a guy who goes, what about a bad trip?
I says, here's when you get a bad trip and I don't get him
First of all, I won't be around people who are negative
I that's one of my big refusals in life. I don't be around negative people
I don't want to be around downer. Don't fuck my goddamn high up or don't fucking listen
We all have issues looking at mind fucking people's everybody's right
I never can play people. You never bitch that idea. What's it a bitch about?
I was already went in a hole. I lived in a fucking bathroom for fucking 10 years
I says so
How people fucking have bad trips is they take a acid or whatever and they try to fight it
Right, you cannot fight it. Right
Accept it. No, it's gonna end in five hours or whatever it is
It's not gonna it's gonna peak it peaks at about
Two hours an hour and a half two hours made depending and I got different stuff
You know, I've done different stuff. See I have I'm I have a very low tolerance to drugs like that
So I can you say low meaning you get high quick. I get high quick
Good, you know, that's good. Absolutely. So like I have and I have a high one
I can take like a quarter of a gummy like I get these little square weed gummies
My wife will eat one and it basically and I eat a quarter of one
And it fucking sends me to the moon and I can sit there and I can be creative and I can like
I can start working like edibles. I love edibles. I have an edible
I'll give you if you come there RV after we're done that will
Hot smokers and edible smokers call me after wouldn't say what the fuck did you give me?
See, I don't need anything. No, no, it is your wife. I like that. There's nine
It's a box and there's nine chocolates. They chocolates. You ever hear the punch ball?
No, oh, it's not from you. It's not in florida
Holy shit, I can't take it if I take one now. First of all edibles take a long time for me to hit
Yeah, not an hour, right? No, me me sometimes I don't have to just people's metabolism is different
And when it hits there it is look at that punch. That's exactly what I got in that that fucking shit
They're 25. You have these. Yeah, that that's 25 milligrams each one. See they're they're 10
I think on the bottom. That's not a lot. No, they are I have 25. No, the whole box is 9 25
See, I have 9 25s in the box. I got
Where do you get them? Uh, if I tell you that I gotta kill you. Okay, so tell me then
And and like you see there's a button get it delivered
Delivered in california. I love this fuck. No florida country the uh, but uh, if I take one of them
I'm stoned the next day
I can't do it. I I I don't do it. I really don't do it
When I want to like go to bed or if I'm wound up something's on my mind
I got the vape pen, right? My son is a mega mega. We're actually looking into a brand
To get our own our own brand sponsored brand
because
Like my son is a I mean dab, you know dabbing. Yeah, of course. He's got the rig. You know those rig. That's a hard core shit
Did you yeah, did you know those mother ships go? You ever see the price of those? No
A mother, you know, the mother ship is it's a bong like really
Get the glass things coming his case
How about 30 40 000 for one you pull up a mother ship
Just pull up mother ship. What do you call it mother ship dad?
I don't know. Just pull up mother ship. Yeah, but I better find it
There you go. Now watch go go go down an expensive one expensive one and look at look at some of my saucer
Go go look at some prices
Oh, what happened? He just pulled it away because he's got to fuck with it. Um, okay
Uh, yeah, and when he pulls it back, you're gonna see the prices they go
They say look, oh, wait, that's nothing 11,500. That's the you'll see a lot more now
Fucking glass bombs are ridiculous, bro. 40 000. Oh, no 40 hours. That's okay
But I I don't I don't dare. I mean I dab, you know, oh my
He did that for me I
I dab for I I dab with uh, it was me my son
And sublime rome from sublime, you know, you know revans. Yeah, they're friends of mine, too
Rome is a great guy. I had him on my show. You want to talk about uh, fucking success story. I love that kid
He was living in a van and fucking him his brother in a bad home dad fucked up
And he ends up becoming who he is. I mean, obviously after bradley killed himself 94
96
And he became and he didn't become then he's young he used to follow him
He's just loved the band so much and now he's the fucking lead singer been there 10 years fucking me
I go to concerts with him. I'm up on stage. It's fucking a lot of fun. That's incredible. He's great. I take my rv
Yeah, and we make that's the mega rv. They have all their tour buses, you know, look at that fucking bomb, you know
What's that? How much that cost?
100 grand
Yeah, 100 grand keep going down
100,000 dollars. Are you fucking not that's art. That's just pure fucking. I don't know. I don't know better
I'll smoke it out of a fucking
Rolling paper. Yeah, I'll smoke it out of a fucking coke can. Yeah. No, that's terrible. Now you're looking like crack
I used to smoke weed out of coke cans. Oh god. I know we used to make them in fucking
You know woodshop class. Yeah
No, that's like some yeah, you see the prices though the prices go that was a hundred thousand dollars ridiculous
Yeah, yeah, I don't need it. Yeah, matter of fact, they were in washington and they invited me out there
Really?
to go because
You know, maybe be a rep with them or something like that, you know, they want again, you know, all these brands need influencers of some sort
We I don't monetize my uh
YouTube channel not my youtube my main youtube I do but I don't do my podcast youtube
Why don't you monetize it? Because I I advertise other thing. I advertise gambling
But you're allowed to advertise gambling can't advertise tobaccos, you know smoking stuff
Oh, so you so because you advertise your cigars and stuff you're not allowed to have
And see and that one is my uh, that's my legacy. I did that because I'm a 40-year cigar smoker
Anyway, you can tell him he's looking at my cigar. My cigar really is good. I picked that blend this took
A long time to come about I partnered with the third largest company in the world
They wanted me they were they were gonna get connor mcgregor, but they got me. Oh, yeah
Yeah, they had meeting with him and meeting and my I have a very big overseas audience too
And they were all over the place. So leave a cigars is the third largest cigar company in the world in the world
6100 employees matter of fact the ceo came to my office. I take care of my mom across the way, you know
And I made the whole garage. It's with studio. That's a garage
That studio I made because I can't leave my mom
I kill her. She's 90 years old, right and I won't do it. You know, at the RV you got to get away from your mom. Yeah, exactly
Damnit mom. I gotta go. No, yeah
You know, she's good, but she's yeah, and and if I try to I know it's like man and I try to move
I won't I mean is that's in my day. They would air for me, right?
You know in the worst times of my life, and I'm never gonna let that down and then is your mom the one
Or was it both of your parents that got you into the catholic church?
It was both the pair. I mean, we just grew up that way. Yeah
Nobody gets you into it. You grew up that they go you go if you're a christian you pay your parents go to a church
You go to it or if you're jewish you become jewish. I mean, we got I'm non-religious. Let you know
We got zero we got distracted earlier, but could you walk me through what happened in your experience in the catholic church?
I mean you can read it. It's in the book
It's a tough say, you know the situation happened after a
Event like a funeral. It was a funeral mass
Right money the other kid had a leave he says I'll get my money later because we like to do those because
People give you money in a wedding. It's a happy time. The guy comes back and throws you a hundred bucks even back then
Holy shit, man. You know that's 50 bucks a kid. Yeah, you know because you had to do all the bullshit
They do in catholic mass, which I thought well what bullshit
So and so I was in the back and I was in a vestibule in the back area where they where you change out the
You take the it's like a little robe. They way even the you know, do all the boys do that
And I fucking back there and he comes up and goes how's things going and he touches my shoulder and then
He I mean he's tall. Obviously I'm a little kid
And he gets down on his knees and he's on buck on my pants. I don't know what to do
You know, I mean, I'm just sitting there like I don't know what to do. I barely could get a heart
I mean, I didn't know about sex
I was 11 years old and fucking then all of a sudden I see
The vivid memory is his hair, you know, you always suck on my dick and
And it's not good anybody thinks. Oh, you know, that's oh, you're getting a blow. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
How are you 11 and I didn't even know it hard on what, you know, I wasn't even jacking off that
I think it was 12 or something like that when I said, but I really started a lot of bad stuff after that
And I think a lot of psychologists say that was like, did you continue tricking a triggering point?
After that that happened now, let me explain that, you know, you think people will say this
First of all, they'll say, oh, that's why you like swing in and you don't give a shit about it. No
First of all, I don't I don't ever take I take every negative that happened to me
And that's being tortured in prison strapped down naked and pissed on and beaten 11 straight months
And I take that and I'm not a bitter man and I use that
As an education, uh, I had a judge tell me he's a friend of mine
Because Larry, you know, I've been around a long time because you're one of the guys that think you have a reason to be submitted
I said, no, his name is just so man. I said, Dave. No
I said, that's bullshit. That's giving me an excuse. In fact, I have to show that whatever happens to a person
Whatever it is. I don't care what it is, Danny
You have to turn that in a way into an educational lesson. That's why my program is so successful
That's why I speak over a place. But my program has the highest success rate because of that
And I look at it as you take I tell kids who have messed up
They I think it's sentenced to my program young people
Literally by court systems fought lord of hell in the end. If you fuck up the shoplift you
35 shoplift you might get sentenced to reality check program
So what happens, Danny is is I tell a guy who does that or whatever he is because everybody just needs to wake up call
That's what the what I do
You got to use that now. Not many people got a DUI. I mean not everybody gets a DUI
So when you get a DUI, you think your life's over. I said motherfucker. I got out of prison at 46 years old
zero money
A convicted felon four time five time convicted felon
And I got no money and I made the success out of it
I says my life started then I was 46 years old
I said, don't tell me you're over 25 or 31 or whatever the fuck you are
Because people don't find it out. They people hit things differently
And you have to take whatever negative you have
And you have them. I don't give a fuck what they are
And and nobody needs to know as long as you know
And I did that since the beginning before my my author got things out of me and people got it out of me
That uh, I used to take him say, you know, it's not me
Because I was always and it's not and you know, it's what you like. You like you could say this happened
I think I I think I was young when I was young and trying to prove myself or whatever you want to call it
That that's when I was violent
I got fights a lot of fights and got into crime and everything else to prove my manhood maybe because I didn't know
I mean totally didn't know so I look at people who make mistakes and everybody does you just never got caught
maybe with a DUI or whatever the fuck you did and
And
They they fucking gotta take it and use it to help people
There's people out there who need to hear what your situation if you had a bad situation
You went to the county jail. You were beaten. You had fights with people. You did shit
You need to take those and not fucking suppress them
Educate others on why you don't want to do that because it sucks so much
And I and that's a big I I'm always a half the glass is full
I'm not I don't give a fuck. I mean because you know how I look at it to
Listen, I lived in a closet literally
I lived in a closet and uh
What's the worst getting to me I was beaten
I was strapped down and I could beat and guard took his dick out pissed on my feet. I'll never forget that
And you know what the hate remember we were talking about hate
My cousin is a life unbelievable. I'm gonna see you soon
Fucking love of my life. I mean, I don't mean that way, you know, the best person I've ever known
And she saved my life
This actually saved my life when I was on the bus coming home
And I was gonna probably go back to prison by killing somebody doing something when I got first out of prison
So what happened was she says larry
This hate's killing you I can see it
Because I used to literally for five years Danny, I would plan their murder
I'm planning and I don't mean jokingly. I mean, I'm the kind of guy that
You don't want me planning your murder
And uh, I was I did a lot of muscle work and I was I it consumed me
And it took five years of that and then she goes larry. I want you to look at something
I want you to think she knows I'm a big reader too. She says
She gave me a spirit a boot of book, you know, like on and stuff and I got to read the saying and just the fucking most
True saying in the world and she says to me
I want you to realize how bad his life is
If that man has to piss on you and spit on another guy spit through two of them
Kick me broke my ribbed everything if that man has done that
How bad do you think his life is at home?
He probably gets beat by his wife. He fucking, you know, he's miserable his kids hate him
He goes he has to come and get some kind of solace from something like picking on somebody who is no fucking recourse
And you know, I looked at that and it made a lot of sense to me and I thought it thought it thought it and over time
I got it where it fucking
Unbelievable, you know, I feel so I actually feel for him
If I was religious, I'd pray for him
But I mean I feel for him because he must have the worst fucking life in the world
Right, you know correctional gods have a 17 time higher suicide rate than an average person
17 17 one of the highest professions
I think the highest maybe listen to what the Dalai Lama said if you're like, you know who he is, of course
The Dalai Lama which was when asked what surprised him most about humanity answered man
You say something. Oh, I thought you said something. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry again. Yeah, okay
You're good. Yeah, okay
The Dalai Lama when asked what surprised him most about humanity answered man
Because he sacrifices his health in order to make money
Then he sacrifices money to recoup his health
And then he is so anxious about the future that he does not enjoy the present
The result being that he does not live in the present or the future
He lives as if he's never going to die and then dies having never really lived
And I look at that and that is why I get a positive. I'm gonna live life
Whatever it is it is could be tomorrow
Know what he knows
And and that's not morbid. I'm pleased. I'm not being morbid. It is what it is and I'm okay with it
It's you know, you can't fight that right and when you get older
It's tougher for younger people with young kids and the whole work. You know, my kids are 30s 32 33 and 27
I have two grandkids, which I fuck. I'm going to see them in in january. Yeah, I'm actually going to new york for three weeks
Uh a business to you know, like some shows and
Yeah, I mean, I see it in a lot of people. I know family members
I know that have been wronged or hold resentment
For for decades and they say tires do that a lot when you do I talk to my cousin
What over what he didn't show up at my daughter's wedding
When you do that is like the moment you learn that holding on to resentment and hatred for other people
They're not going to suffer. You're the only one that's going to suffer
You're the only one that's affected by that
So if somebody fucked you over 10 years ago or however long ago it was and you keep thinking about it and fucking saying fuck
It's eating you it's eating you not them. They don't even know you hate. They don't fucking care at all
They don't know you hate them right the moment you can let realize like let go truly let go right because that not just say it
I I I it took me a while
Because I'd get it it would sneak back in me. Yeah, I'd see somebody that you know, and I hear easier said than done
To this day I hear about abuses in prisons. They just did a hearing in I saw on tv yesterday
Where they these women won money because they would be raped by these guards at this prison in federal prison
And they just found out at a 29 female facilities
17 facilities have raped people guards at the facilities of rape people
Wow
Yeah, that's the guards it happens or males or females females that but it happens in males too. I mean it happens everywhere
Uh, so, you know, it's you know, I you know, listen, I the worst case I've ever heard was a rape
These two guys cut this kid's anus from the top
It's in my book
They cut his anus from the top of his anus to the bottom of his balls
Screwed him boy with a razor blade and then fucked them and and the report had said
Inmate in his name
A guy worked every day. I never slept past six o'clock in the morning ever in prison
You get up with your boots on or your shoes on because you don't know what the fuck are you who you pissed off
What's gonna go on so you're ready and I'm in maximum security prison
You gotta remember I'm not in those fucking little bullshit places. I'm in a place where this kill is
Someone once said to me like, what do you think of that neighborhood?
I said, good. He go, no, it's not I go listen
You want to live in my neighborhood where everybody was a fucking drug dealer a hitman a fucking mafia boss or a fucking armed robber
Shoot people were all violent. That's the neighborhood. I lived in for fucking 12 years
so what I told the kid uh, uh, uh, so I got up and
Get up to go to before your units call through chow
We're sitting around a silver, you know stainless steel tables and guy walks in from uh from the he worked in the
Medicals when he did after he was an orderly in the medical
He'd come back. He was you guys got to read this
He gave it to us. It says he made the anus was cut with a sawp object from the top of the anus till the scrolled for six
so many inches
And seminal fluid was found
Uh transferred to the hospital
No, no, no emergency. He's not he's not
He's now he's not gonna die, you know, it wasn't like a life-threatening, but yeah
It didn't get a non-life-threatening. I never saw him again, obviously
You know, it's funny because I hear the screams to this day. I can hear those screams and it's fucking, you know
So every girl is what they'd say man. You've got some fucked up dreams, man
and I I'm sure I do and you know, it's funny, you know
Talk about sex and try makes it. That's the fun. I touch under my fucking balls
Over that spot and that's a great spot get a broad-looking that fucking spot. Whatever
Like the gooch. Yeah. No in between the tape between the between your balls
Yeah, it's called the gooch. Gooch. I thought it was a taint, but maybe I'm okay. Gooch. Okay. I didn't know that
I just learned something. Yeah. Wow
And how do you know that? Uh, because I watched a lot of cky videos growing up. What's cky?
Uh, it's you never heard cky
It's uh, we're a different generation. You do know that, right? Yeah. Yeah, we are but your kid might know about it
Oh, the guarantee knows it
He's sure you want him to say it's a band. It's a group of friends that are we're lived in like
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and they like grew up making skits and skateboard videos like fucking around doing crazy. Oh, yeah
I'm sure he knows and like lightening themselves on fire and shitting on car shitting on each other
Oh, you mean kind of like jackass shit. That's how it evolved. It jackass evolved out of cky
Yeah, so spike jones saw see, you know, I have fucking rules and sex
I only have three fucking rules. Really? I mean literally three rules. What are they?
No scat
Which is shit. Okay. No blood
Okay, and no serious pain
I don't mean just banking those are your rules. I won't be tied up. I have my own
See why I had nothing to do with like sex. Oh, no, I'm just saying no, I mean, but
You you got me disgusted when they said this shit up you I think that's just fucking disgusting
Well, that's what well one of the one of the funniest don't even tell me he would like
Like so he would go
Please
You just made me watch fucking dick videos for the last 10 minutes. I'm gonna tell you a story about shit
You have a problem. We're gonna try to get to your issue. I don't have a problem. What am I?
What's my problem? Why do you why would that even bother you anybody ask him? What's the uh, austin austin does that bother you?
I mean, it's nothing. I mean, I think we've gotten so into this. It's not bother. It's not
I mean, what's the big deal? You see a dick? It's just like I don't like I don't know watching some guy fucking sick
You watch a great video of a girl. It's not coming out. You ever watch facial videos. It's not so much
It's not so much the dick. It's watching a fucking guy
Sit there for 10 minutes sticking a needle into his dick. That's
I mean, so anyways, so this guy never actually saw that one
They have another one. They have another one with a uh animation with a uh, like a dildo
Oh, okay, you know like a real life like dildo and they tell you where to put it
That's what and it's about the vein. See there's a you don't want to hit the veins
No, and there's a cavernous in there
See on the top of the penis you don't want because
You got to go to the side and near the base because it's the cavernous. They call it
There's the tubes that go up and that opens it up and and then and did you know what closes it?
Like I've taken the shot they give you a shot if you want it right by it
And I do I have the fucking antidote to both the rv
It it's actually what it is a pseudofed. No, no way. So it's uh, it's the same act of greed
In fact, you can go to a pharmacist and tell them you need
4 30 milligram pseudofed
Now you got to get them from the back of the counter because of the drugs
But they don't care. I mean you tell them what it's for and I'll give you and that'll do it
But what okay cky. So anyways those I'm a shit. They don't think they actually shit on people
They have skits where they're like fake shit on people
But like he walks he walks he walks up to a like a starbucks like a cafe, right where there's people sitting there having their coffee
I don't tell me squat. No, he doesn't he puts his ass
He well first of all he eats a bunch of fucking laxatives
Then he sticks and he puts his ass right up against the glass wall where people are sitting there drinking their coffee
And he just takes a liquid shit all over the glass, you know, if I was that necker I'd go out and beat that mother
I swear to god, I would
I if I was with a friend or a girlfriend my wife or anybody
Oh, you and I sitting there, I'd say hold on fucking dad
I will get up and I will beat his ass so bad. He'll never fucking do a video again
I swear to god, I would I swear to my children
I would have got up and you know and beat him so fucking bad
I would have stuffed his face in the shit and I just think it's I don't do that to other people
So bam margera heard of bam margera. No, he's a skateboarder like prankster and he would I could see you were skateboarder
He would fuck yeah, he would fuck with his parents, especially his dad
So what like what they would do and he was they would film it
He would wake up in the middle of the night and he would walk into his parents' bedroom
I was sleeping in their bed and he would just pull his pants down and start pissing on his dad's head while he's
You
This is fucking real. Yes. Yes. This is real. It's real. It's a video you watch it download it
I grew up in a different era
I'm not kidding you. I have I have uh, uh, that's like these videos are what inspired me to start making videos
Yeah, but you know, see that wouldn't
That's what I never inspired me that wouldn't you know what it is. I don't know. I come from a era. Well, obviously the mob era
respect the era
but wild era because I know a lot about everybody and
I look at two things. I respect everybody
Danny, I respect 17 year olds 16 year olds. They're people. They're smart
I I actually had a big thing in washington dc where I fucking yell at people at a big conference
I was on on a board of what they call the weed and seed program
There's a 40 million dollar program the government gave to
What they would do is they'd go into a neighborhood bad neighborhood
The cops and prosecutors would weed out the fucking drug dealers and shit
And they would seed things like my program and stuff like that to keep the neighbors
Did it called the weed and seed program? Okay, very successful problem. That's no more of course a budget cut
anyway, so my program is done there in texas and other places
and
I was at the meeting and there's all these fucking big wigs and I don't give a fuck. You see the way I am anyway
I talked the way I talk at the end of it. I don't give a shit. That's why I pot this as well
It's a real deal. I don't give a fuck. Right. We have no cut no edit the mailman walks in my mother walks in
It's crazy. The mailman's a star now. You should see he's fucking got people. Is it really? Oh man
Jamaican guy too from new york a black guy. Yeah, I saw your video you just did about uh,
I don't know if that was on your youtube channel your podcast
You did a video I'll talk about the britney griner victor boot thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I just that no
That was on my regular video. Okay. That was that was great because I didn't know I learned a lot watching that actually
A lot of people loving that video. I didn't know that about the other guy other months
No, no, there was like said they released her and like a couple other people
No one one other person that no they deported one other person they deported that means like you get out of a car
We do we we deport at least he's free, right? No, the other person was deported like, you know, we have from russia
Right, I said, but we have people on ins that we deport to whatever country
Oh, god, they deported wasn't a crime that would deport him. They're really whatever a person
The one that got me mad is there's a guy in there who a teacher who got 14 years hard labor
hard labor 14 years
And six months before britney griner in august of 2021 britney griner was arrested in february of 2022
Now that guy got hard labor 14 years for marijuana 17 grams of marijuana. She had hashish
She just had vape oil. It was hash is when they tested is with the baby everybody's saying and she admitted to that
Okay, whatever it doesn't matter to me. There's one of those cartridges. You know, they smoke my point. It's it
Must have been a hash or whatever. Okay, uh, it
Doesn't matter that real because the drug don't matter to me
But why get her out without getting him out first?
He was there longer. Just because he's a teacher and she's a fucking basketball player or a lesbian basketball player
I have nothing against anybody. I zero prejudice in me. Danny. If there's one thing. I don't have
It's zero prejudice. I just don't I was grew up with the
My parents give that's the best gift. They've ever given me
Is uh, so they let fogel out. They're deported him. That's the way. No, no, no, no, no, no
So where's mark fogel now mark fogel's imprisoned in hard labor still there six months before the teacher
Mark fogel is an american teacher who is being detained in russia under similar circumstances to miss griner
Mr. Fogel suffers from severe medical conditions and his family and look he will not survive his 14-year sentence in a hard labor camp
The biden administration and the nation cannot forget about mark like miss griner and others mark deserves to see
He should have been free before her now. Keep going. I think you'll read it. Maybe it'll be there
No, you got to go to the case itself
Oh, you got to read about the fucking guy we we gave him away, but I don't oh, I know about victor boot
Yeah, but no victor boot was a conspiracy. I don't believe in a conspiracy law
I think victor boot was he was just a gun runner just like all the other gun
I'm just trying to make money exactly those people were going to get those weapons
Absolutely, and you know what they vilified him to the biggest degree. This is what a good country does
They did it to fucking manual noriega
They did it to manual noriega, right? I mean they made him a drug dealer
They go to Panama pick him up and put him in prison here. Yeah, just because he was supplying guns to
What did we do when I ran contra?
What did we do? Why didn't we why didn't they come and get reagan?
Exactly. Yeah, it's the same with a big bully on the block. You know, right, right?
But anyway with that case, uh
I did a video and that it everybody's they made victor boot was that movie lord of war was based off him, right?
Nick cage was supposed to be victor boot. Yes. Yes. Yes, exactly right. Do you know, uh, do you know rude jude is?
I've heard I've heard a rude fucking great
He we've become real close friends. He comes down here and remind me who rude jude is a serious xm
He's like I got a big show. He used to he got his start
he's
10 years older than you I think he's 45
He's been in he's been on serious 20 years. He's like very big on serious and like behind how it kind of he does a talk thing
four to seven at nights on serious xm 45 with the shade a shade channel, you know, uh, uh
xm shade whatever m&m's channel, right? So
What a fucking great guy boy great guy and I love him because him and I sat and talked for hours
You know victor boot. No, we talking about that. We was talking about because he he texted me last night
He was fucking a larry. I'm glad you did that video. He goes he because he knows I I
I do three things that are out of like, of course, you know a lot of shit I do sometimes don't get monetized
That's why the youtube channel the the real deal youtube channel. I don't worry about
Yeah, I don't worry about because I got sponsors for the show
I don't care about the right
The monetization there now the other one at 1.1 was five of 1.4 some odd million 1.43
Go something like that. I don't know what to well the crazy the crazy
Thing about the whole britney griner thing the most fucked up thing
Which we were all over the place because it was something cool. Everyone's yeah, we've been all over the place
I I'm always like that. The thing with the thing with her is that
Which a lot of people have pointed out already is that we went to such a crazy length of such a crazy
Degree degree to to get her back from russia for a weed charge
Yet we have tens of thousands of people locked up in the united states for weed charges
Uh, absolutely not only sitting in prison right now
100 correct. Uh, I had uh, I I was on uh, he had a life sentence randy linia
That guy who was on my show and he got out after 2017
Randy linear is there that was the biggest born at a biggest pot deals in the world
Oh, we talked about they did a they did a movie about him
We see gotta watch it together. We should watch on netflix and he ended up becoming rookie of the year
He funded his whole fucking indie cartoon with pot
He was from south florida didn't know he just started the speed belt races in miami. Right. He knew them all right, right, right
So, uh, yeah, that's randy right there and he was on my show with him and I were in the same prisons
Not together. It was funny. Oh, I've seen this guy
I've seen so randy and I randy and I were in the same prison. We know the same exact people
So I did a show with him and there were a bunch of people there because I have a couch in my show
Like you do but a big and people could come and watch we have sometimes fans want to fucking in the background
Why you record in the pod? No, I don't let them do they could jerk off, but they can't
So they'll come watch I'm saying they we even have a mic at the at the couch. Oh, no, I do stuff with them
but uh
So we had a lot of people people said when you and him like randy and I it was a great great video
He said they said when you and him was talking about prison
You two were fucking like two guys just talking about old friends in the pro joint
You guys forgot the mics were there. You fucking did everything. Yeah, just bullshitted bullshitted and we did you know
And uh, why was that?
Why is that? How are you really because we know the same people just because you guys are from yeah
Same violent. We know he talked about doing acid in prison. I used to do a lot of acid in prison
That's where I flew out of the prison. I told you stuff
So he tells the whole story on my podcast how he did 10 hits or 12 by accident
And he won't do it again. How many years total did you do in prison? 12 11?
Didn't my sentence was for 12 year sentences, but they ran him concurrent
Not consecutive. Is there would you say there was any?
Good you got out of it. Was there any benefit anything that you got out of that 12 years that benefited you that made you better?
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. Patience
Uh, I I I mean I I did the law work for 10 years, you know that too. Uh, I got a law degree in prison
But it's I'm a paralegal. I can't be a lawyer because I'm a felon
Right. I'm a convicted felon. I have the credits
Uh, I did law. I was very good at the law
10 years fucking one cases sued the government for jerking off and they stopped putting people in the prison for jerking off
So and if people looked that case up all the time and they go fucking larry for jerking off
I sued the attorney general of the united state
Because he's ultimately the head of your prison and the bureau of prisons hardly lapping. I think it was
Anyway, I was very good at what they call the c a cfr code of failure regulations
And knowing what they can can't do and how they come down from you know from law. But anyway, uh
Patience because when I was in the hall and I'm filing lawsuits
You have to wait
30 days it goes out gets there they have 30 days to answer it
And they wait to 30 days then you get it in you have to go back and so you you learn patience and in what to do in between
And I think they make that as a mistake because you study so much that you you end up finding shit
I remember finding shit and you know, they what do they call it the ninth hour the last hour
And and it was months and I fucking was studying in fucking study
We used to do what they call shepherds and shepherds in the law
Is when you're matching case for case and where are they relevant to each other? Well back when I did it
Shepherds is the word you had to do it by hand
You had to go to law library and get a book from this fucking case law in fucking california this one today
Computers, right?
You know, so it was a big difference and I and I loved the law because I helped a lot of people
I always had a love of helping people I did even when I was a gangster
I fucking threw parties for people or did stuff
And you know as I get older like I said, I'm doing that thing with the the college students. It's up there
And they're they're so I'm not college students the high school students
They're so stoked. I had them on the show yesterday on monday. They were fucking
I mean excited what accomplished young people kids 70 on a society this society is fucking math team this shit
I mean one kid going to baseball scholarship and he's on and these all these kids
I asked the teacher names kelly. I said kelly
Let's get the kids on you want to open your school up to the media and stuff. Sure enough. They did of course
It did they did please you know laugh at this too. I hope they don't hear the
The superintendent the principal I guess was in the in on the call
I didn't know that but we had them film themselves
So then they sent the film to us and my editor took care of it from there
so
uh
I'm joking with them because I fall into these things. I get in the rabbit holes and I study. I don't just take them lightly
So I looked up the school what the true rate or the crime rate who to play everything in the whole area
And they have a high truancy rate. So joking around. I said, all right, we're ready for the show
It's the 20th this tuesday
I said, you know, you know when your superintendent comes on i'm gonna yell at him about this truancy shit, you know
Joe and I saw laughing or something
The principal I've mentioned something that is lady. I think saying, you know, uh, we've got to worry about what is he gonna do
Talk to the superintendent like that
These fucking people, you know, I
I look at that shit though because when I speak at any school or anywhere
I speak in the community centers. I speak in court systems. I tell them two things
You get me
Don't ask me to fucking not curse or don't do something. I respect everybody
totally respect everybody
and but
Do I use the word fuck? Yes. I actually sometimes use it on purpose
I mean, I've been to congress. I never used the word once but I do use it sometimes to
highlight some emphasize someone especially young people
Uh case in fact when I first got out of prison
I talked to a kid. That's how I felt my whole program started
And I sat down with the kid and because his dad was a golf golf pro
I think I told this story as a golf pro and he said, you know, Larry, I need a favor
So what the fuck you want me to break somebody's legs? Leave me to fuck alone. I'm like, no, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry
Because I caught my 16 year old smoking weed and he said fuck you dad where have you ever been
I said the kid told you that
Well, let me talk to him
I have pictures and me in prison with gang members and fucking murderers and mobs
And so what I do is uh, I take the pictures to him. He had a
In the east coast, they had a nice gazebo in the back. We sit down have a quick beer and uh, then I go
He goes he's inside. He goes you're a big kid, but I was a big, you know, especially getting out of prison
You know, you just don't realize how intimidating you are. You still got that fucking walk the fucking right, you know
The eyes the fucking I walked up to the kid the kid looked at me and I go you told you for this how I emphasize the curse words
It's it. I said you
told your father where the fuck he's been
Let me show you where the fuck I just came from
And sat down didn't use one curse word
Fucking two hours and you saw the kids fucking wheels turning. You saw I'm looking
demeanor everything
And then I went back. I said, let me know how it goes. You know the father
Calls me two weeks late week and a half later. He goes Larry. I don't give a fuck what you do at law
Because you got to keep working. My kid said dad. I don't want to go with that man went
I
He's doing great the kid was 17 now. He's like 30. This is 34 14 years ago 15
Doing good married to college. He goes you changed his life. I mean he
And it's because sometimes kids I treat kids like adults
I don't mean, you know, obviously, you know, you can't totally but I treat kids the way they do as they're equal
Yeah, they deserve to be I bring my program
I bring my program Danny down to them and then I bring them up, right?
Because the program is built four parts. It's my life
What prison is really like not the bullshit you see on tv
What you're gonna lose and at your family your your your money family girl for anything
I don't give a fuck what it is and it doesn't matter
And then the last one is avoiding and dissolving bad associations. How do you get away from those kids?
And a lot of people I give them one I give I give parents a drill
And the kids is the easy one is I see, you know, listen
You're gonna go out tonight and they go, yeah, I don't care. I have 20 years old whatever
I said, you don't want to go say man. I ain't getting in your car because I heard this, you know, Larry Lawton talk
No, who gives a fuck about Larry Lawton
But you know there's drugs in the car oxys because I've had this case happen, you know
There's drugs in the car
Car gets lit up the guy who's got the drugs. What does he do? He sticks it between the seat of the car
Guy driver didn't know
Cops look to the car. Yeah, everyone's out of car already. They find the drugs
Nobody claimed them
Nobody they all go to where you they all go to jail. It's called constructive possession of a narcotic or whatever or fire on that
Actually happened before the cop will go around every single person and say, hey, who was yeah, of course they do today
So, uh, anyway, uh, I told kids listen, don't get in the car again
Yo, a kid with a gun or something's gonna happen. I said, here's what you do
You go up to him say listen, man, I got to go texas broad. I'm maybe I'll get lucky. I don't know just go ahead you go
And they're gonna go
And you call your mother your father
You're a good friend and say listen, I need a ride if you didn't already have a little bit of money
You just need a ride
They'll come get you and I'll bet money. They don't say a fucking word
You tell them I didn't want to get in a car with these kids with drugs or a gun or something
And don't say a word. You gotta say who they are. You don't want your rat, none of that shit
But you know what?
Well, I do I do that all the time and I had a kid
Call me six months later. I remember him
He goes miss the law and you saved my life
I was in a car and I got out and then I didn't get back in because it kept eating at me and we went to a 7-11
And it kept eating at me knowing that they and it was oxy cotton, you know oxy pills were big
It back then and he was and he got busted the whole car got busted
And they had more than just that and any other shit in it and the kid was home
And he fucking says I'll never in my life forget you
And I love that because
Listen, yeah, it's one song man. Yeah, I had a guy teach me the other day. He was on here
He was said he was driving 50 keys from
Oregon to LA he got pulled over on the highway
Guy and the guys like what are you doing?
uh, no what weed
And uh, the cop like fucking counts weed and fucking keys. I don't know pounds. I used to fucking pound bales 50 pound bales
My I don't know if it's 50 keys is coke, you know 2.2. Maybe you know that maybe it was pounds
I don't remember what it was 2.2. It was 50 something 50 bricks
10 50 bricks is coke
Okay, um, and he was driving back and the cop pulled him over and he's like, what are you doing to go officer? I'm
on him out here. He put
I'm fucking the story up. He already had a uh, a sticker on the back of his car for the marines or whatever
He's like, where are you going sir? He's like, what what's where you stationed? He's like, what's your uh, whatever
MOS I'm on my way to enlist right now, sir. It's a good luck soldier
And he let him go. Yeah
Just lie like you're fucking the marines or you're going to enlist. Hang on. Let's hold that thought. I gotta piss
There you go. Caril says, uh
Uh, can I take a picture?
So no
Hey respected it totally fucking respected really totally said okay shut him down because you know, we both had camera people
I had my guy there. Okay. All right. We're back from our bathroom break now. We were just talking back from pissing and jerking off
You know, I was going to go into bathroom and fuck with you. I told fucking awesome. I says
I should go into fucking bad. They just whip out my fucking dick fuck with you
Because you you're paranoid about dicks or something. I'm not paranoid about
Not paranoid, but okay. I got nothing wrong with dicks. I hope not
Um
Oh, yeah, I heard a story you so you
Fucking smuggled like a knife in your ass. Oh, yeah, I did. That's the funniest video if anybody wants to go look at a video
Pull this up
Austin, right? Austin pull up just google
brook brook baldwin
Suit casing
Suit casing. I was on jimmy fouling that night. You were on jimmy fouling. Yeah, not not sitting there. He used my whole clip
And he says he plays this clip. You're gonna see and he cozy goes
This reporter asked the wrong guy a wrong question. Watch your face. You got to open it up
Yeah, watch it. Watch her face. I'll strain it. Yeah. Yeah, watch this
It is fucking hilarious. I know brook. She's a good girl
She talked about how they can get things through prison and it's pretty easy
Broke to get like even a saw blade through security checkpoints and stuff of that nature
How was it easy to get a saw
Through a maximum security prison
Well, it depends on the size of course, but if it's a saw blade say this uh this along
And you're gonna get it through there's something called and i'm gonna show your audience is called suit casing something
It's actually hiding something in your rectum and it's not like you stick a saw blade there
You actually take a toothbrush holder brook and they put a the saw blade in the toothbrush holder
Look at her face
And you can get through three metal detectors
It happens quite often. I mean your metal detector would go off
But then when it goes off the guards will strip search you and they don't find anything
They don't know if you have a bullet in you or a knee and the lines are backing up and they let you go through
Rude jude and all out. Look at what does that say rude jude all out so join larry lot. What is it? Oh
Yeah, yeah, he came on a video. I did that in my RV. I was on the road
So when they strip search you don't they don't they check your asshole. Yeah, it's in your ass. Yeah, don't they don't they jam a finger
No, no, no, no, no, no. I can't do that's called a cavity search. Yeah, I can't do that
So they don't do the cavity now they do how they do it if they suspect you have something they'll put you in a dry cell
They'll make you stay in a cell with no water nothing nothing concrete nothing and make you shit too twice twice
Like they think you swallowed something during the visit like balloons of drugs
They'll bring you in a dry cell and then
They get you shit in a bucket
And I've seen guys try to eat it and try to get again, you know open it up eat it and fucking shit
Because if it's weed you can do it. I would never do that. I would never put somebody at jeopardy do that
I mean they do it with hooker. I can't believe they banned cigarettes. Oh my god. Do you know what a carton of cigarettes is called?
2000 dollars for one carton of cigarettes in prison. When did they ban that?
I was in prison when he started banning him. Uh, yes. So it had to be about
I got out no seven. So it was about 2005
What was the reason what was their logic for health cigarettes and it was the stupidest fucking thing in the world because they don't feed you
Right, they don't do any metaphor. Hey, don't give a fuck, you know
Don't even get me on this whole fucking shit. It was 2006. Well, I'm pretty good
Yeah, you are really good. So I was thinking pretty decent. I'm in prison. I'm
I'm 99% gonna start smoking cigarettes. Did you smoke ever? Never. I mean, I've smoked. I never smoked a cigarette in my life
Really? Not one. You're not missing much and I smoked cigars since I was my grandfather caught a seal in his optimal bullshit cigars when we were kids
Yeah, it was about 70. I don't know whatever the fuck it was
He made my brother and I sit down at a table
smoke it
A brother pukes. I liked it. Huh?
Smoking 40 years
I smoke cigars 41 only when I'm playing golf
Always I have to have cigar golf course
That's a good cigar too. Yeah, and when I say, I mean, that's a $10, $10.50 cigar because we sell them for two 10 a box
Yeah, uh, one box is 210 one box is 220 others 240 and they're going because the box is the coolest shit
To see that ass. Yeah, and uh, but the cigars they were giving me. Yeah, but the cigar is very good
I'm not just saying that everybody was a cigar fissionado
But I've been smoking for 20. I knew what I like they what a process to do it
You fucking they come I'm gonna leave his headquarters. That's I only deal with the ceo
The coo head of sales and was just a great guy. Yeah, great guys the guy named
Corey is the ceo and then fidel is the the second in charge and then you got bernie and uh, alba sosa great guys
So they got a lounge at the headquarters. They got a 40 000 square foot headquarters in miami
Next year, they're moving to 70 000 square feet. Wow. Yeah, very large company in the world. So anyway
We're sitting in the lounge. They have a lot. So whenever we go down to we have meetings in the lounge
You have wine, whatever and all cigars are all around a whole fucking place and you smoke
That's what you do you smoke in there and it's not it's like lounge chairs
You're like in a lounge. Yeah, and we have a me and we get things done. You know, I mean, I gotta figure out a way
We could smoke in this place. Oh, it'd be great. What what about that? Leave that open
Don't they make some shit? I have it. I smoke in my office
But don't they make some sort of contraption that you can connect to your ac that like they have an independent the smoke from going around
They're smoky eaters. I have one in my yard. It's called a smoky eater. No, well, it's mine costs 500 dollars, but it's a
Uh, I need to get something like that so we can start. Yeah, because you have first of all, you have an exit there, right?
Yeah, why don't you leave that open?
It'll get hot as fucking here. I put especially when this comes. Yeah, there's people that work in this building
If I start smoking cigars, you're gonna start choking down cigars. If you put a fan right there heading that way with the door open
Then I got now I got noise. We've got a fucking audio show with a fan blowing sometimes
It's the coolest. You know when I do my show from the rv people love it. Yeah, you know, I do that. No, yeah
It makes it definitely it's different. You know, I'm trying to I always try to do little things different
I just do that. I did a video that's going on. What is today? Wednesday?
I got a video going out tomorrow on the guy. Uh, you know, uh, N. W. C. Melly
The the rapper my and fault lord knows in he was in custody for killing two friends and it's a big thing
It's in the rap community
And anyway, he he's in the uh, and I did a video about that, but I did the video in a different room
I'd like to do things like that. I like to try to change things. You know, and I think I got to do more of it
That's why I don't mind traveling. I got my camera in my car. I mean rv
I might do a video on the way home. That's perfect. You know, I'll fucking see something that I like a fucking truck driver interview a truck driver
You know, uh, you got to come on my show. Yeah, I love to. Yeah, I love
Do you ever come to the east coast? I I I grew up going to the east coast
multiple times a week
I skipped school when I was in high school
I would skip minimum two days a week to go to go over to melbourne surf
You know, that's just surfing capital of the united states. Oh, yeah, that's where kelly slater's from
Right, like said, um, my uncle lives in veero, which is right like right over the bridge from spashton. Oh, wow
So I would grow up literally yours. I would go. I must add money
They had money. No, they live in like that. They you know, really?
No, veero's kind of like a weird like bumfuck town. You think it for peers
You think it may be port st lucy veero's idea would a lot of people here veero's very a lot of money in veero
Okay, well, I don't know if they have money or not. They have a nice house. I'm saying veero's in veero's a money area
So it's like jupiter, right, you know, definitely jupiter
Definitely jupiter sounds but like wabasa and sebastian inlet. I grew I spent like most of my high school right where we are
I just was on a motorcycle
Buddy of mine has six motorcycles. So he says come on. We got to go riding land. I used to ride a lot
So I was sitting on a 1900 cc. That's a fucking huge bike
Yeah, you know, I never had a 19. I had a holly and I didn't then I had a honda and then but anyway
I get on a bike. I got such a backlash from fucking the community
But I don't give a fuck about this one. Why don't you wear a helmet? You know, you're supposed to be a role model
I said, fuck you
How what are you talking about role model?
And then they saw me drinking at a bar. I said first of all, let me explain something
He's not drinking on the bike. You don't know how videos are made where we did certain things
I said, so don't look at that like it was right and a lot of people got it and said all the most people said
Fucking Larry do what you want. You know, I have fun. You deserve it
But I mean some of the people about the helmet shit. I said, who am I hurting without a helmet me?
I die, right?
Fuck nothing to do with you. Right. You're not putting anyone else in jeopardy
And I'll tell you what you got someone riding unless you got a bitch on the back. Well, put let her wear a helmet
She won't I'm gonna fucking. Yeah, you're right. You're right. It only affects you. Absolutely, man
You know, personal choice. I'm I'm big again. I'm a libertarian
uh, and I but and after all the bullshit and they're all but
At least they're the most for me because more physically and everything else get the government out of my bed
Listen, what I do behind my own doors. Don't bother me, please. Don't fucking bother me. Don't come in my house
Don't fucking do shit. Don't tell me, you know too many fucking laws. You know, people said, what should we do? I said
Should we make a law? I said no more fucking laws. How about we send somebody shit and go to common sense?
Yeah, you know, there's laws. You can't get a blow job. Did you know that?
I had no idea. Are you fucking kidding me?
There used to be laws where you couldn't get a lap dance. What was out of me?
They call side of me laws. That's just crazy. Oh, yeah, let me do I got something for you there. What do you got?
I was like, I already bit the tip off. Oh, no, no, you got to cut it nice. You know, this is a 250
I'm gonna cut this one. This is a 250. What? How the fuck? It's a JT Dupont
Damn, this thing is nice. Watch watch our cuts that that yeah, you cut that right
You could cut that right through the paper and leave it in the paper. I'm gonna cut the tip off. Oh, really? Right?
Well, that one. Yeah, that that cutter
I'm just gonna cut it right here
How much you cut like you just a little tip. Yeah, that's it. That's the cap
Boom perfect. Yeah
That's an expensive cutter. I stole it though. Where'd you steal it from?
One of the guys that'll leave it. I told him to afterwards I said, I guess
Well, we were at an event and he
Gives cut he's running around we'll run around and go home with it
So I'm talking to my father the cigar bends my co-host and then we're at the cigar event
And and I said like I you know, that's a JT Dupont. I said, yeah, I go. What is it?
I that's 250 300. I said, really? He ain't getting it back
If it's a shitty word, I might have gave it back. That's funny. You're talking about uh, Paul
I was listening to speaking of politics. I was listening to that
Interview they just did with victor boot in russia. I guess oh, they did who did it?
He just went on rt and it was they a girl
What's rt? Is it a channel? It's uh, like a russian media. Can I get another water? Uh, yeah
Do you got water? Oh, yeah, I see a lion lion liquid death water. This is a first
I
Just kept fucking bottle water from win-dixie. What I'm gonna do is get my own I'm gonna get my own water
The plastic's not good for you. Yeah. I'm what I'm gonna do is get my own water with own labels
That's good. Yeah, but the plastics will fuck you up the plastics bad for the environment
You know, there's no question. All the recycling. It's bullshit. It's all it's all bullshit. It all goes
And uh, you'll get the phthalates that make your fucking taint small
Like from the plastic from your taint small. Yeah, you don't know that the phthalates and plastics
Now your taint is your the spot between your balls and it's like inside you said go the gooch
I said taint taint is like the actual
There's an actual like organ or something. I think I guess it's an organ called the taint
That's like in there really but that area that little like well
I know because I tell you I touch on the day and sometimes I have bad memories and other times the broad's looking my fucking taint
So our taints are getting smaller our taints and our dicks are getting smaller. What do you mean?
Do you mean our dicks getting closer to our ass? Exactly
Because of because of are you getting this from you're great. I swear to god. It's real dr
Dr. Shaw, man. Austin. What's up fucking these screens? I love it. No bullshit. Dr.
Shanna swan she she wrote a book about this shit about phthalates and the shit like from plastic bottled waters
Getting into our blood and I over over thousands of years. It's it's made our our taint strength
What do you think about climate change?
What do I think? Yeah, what do you think about or or the environment and all that kind of stuff?
Where do you stand? Uh, well, what is your political affiliation?
Your your your tendencies climate change is a super complicated topic. I think that
I'm gonna know where you're from it at this time people
Human beings are 100 affecting the climate
and also for
Hundreds of thousands of years the climate has gone way up and way down from the ice age to from like the
12,600 years ago the younger driest cataclysm
We've gone from freezing cold temperatures to temperatures to where if you fucking
Went outside you would literally be toasted. You'd be melted. Yeah, you'd be melting
So there's been there's been a crazy history throughout our planet of extreme changes in the climate
I agree
Do I think so? Why are we going crazy? Is it all politics? I think it's all politics. It's all money
It's all money and politics and industry. Yeah, absolutely. I don't cost you a cork test talking about cows farting
That's real. It's burps cow burps cow burp. They don't mean shit
Yeah, I don't know how much it means, but I know it definitely affects something
I can only think one thing when I when I was younger and I remember this very clearly
There was 180 million people in in the united states. Yeah, now there's 370 million
Yeah
That is what the fucking thing when not when uh when I was in young again
There were three billion people in the world and you know how many people in the world now
Seven points. I'm on billion. Mm-hmm. So I just think it's a numbers game
I don't know what now. Did you know you could fit all seven billion people in the city of los angeles?
And you put them shoulders. Oh, I believe that sure. It's huge and you know, it's
I I fly a lot like you right you go over this fucking country. Yeah, how much fucking land nothing
There's so much land. There's so much nothing. Everything's like right here. Yeah, you know, it's a little fuck. It's crazy, but
We and climate change to me is the biggest bullshit and and people don't you care about your future your kids and grand
Don't shut the fuck up. Here's why
I
What I do and you do
means absolutely nothing if china and india with 2.7 billion people between
2.7 billion
Against the united states 370 million
If they don't do anything, it doesn't mean shit. It's like spitting into the fucking hurricane fucking herma
And it doesn't mean something and and I don't know, you know, where we're at. Here's my my my take on it and
I agree with not fucking, you know with the with the bottles because it means nothing
It's not I do not personally
Recycle and I'll tell you why they want me to put my fucking shit. They want you to watch this what they fucking give you a letter
You're supposed to wash your trash
Right put this in this thing now. I'm working for the fucking garbage company. Right. They want you to pay all this extra money
And then they just raised the rates
Are you gotta be fucking find the stats on recycled plastic and where it goes
You know who I miss the beast. I get them a lot of credit. You ever see what he does with cleaning up beaches and shit
No, I don't know. You gotta see fucking his videos. I've watched a few of his videos
Yeah, he's getting good videos. He got a video. He does the beach cleanups all the time
Fucking gets massive amounts of people out there and they fucking clean off fucking it. They show it from the start
No, shit. Oh man, you know
Good, but you know what happens? There's a fucking thousand ships right now dumping trash
Of the 40 million tons of plastic waste generated in the u.s. In 2021 only five to six percent or about two million tons was recycled
Uh,
40 million but recycled like what happens to it after you after it's recycled
Yeah, you know all of that stuff like, you know, obviously they can make make it again
Oh, wait, what did I say throw that back up again? Plus the cost is just
you know
40 million tons uh generated
Waste oh wait, there you go. Am I not reading no 38 no 38 36 percent of all plastic products is used to create packaging
So 85 percent of which is ends up in a landfill. Well
Okay, 85 percent of recycled plastic ends up in a fucking landfill
See they don't don't start with the fossil fuel. It's made with fossil fuel
You know, everything's gonna be, you know, you know, they're talking about batteries. I fucking, you know
We got to evolve past fucking fossil fuel. You know, you could do it all you want, but you know, if you
You you know how you make batteries
Your batteries are just as bad, right?
What do you do with them when they're done?
Absolutely, and they only have a 10-year spouse life. Yeah, so like nuclear is the next big thing nuclear
nuclear energy did you have a science guy, uh, bill knife bill knife just said on on tv the other day
I was joking. I didn't know you're actually talking about. Yeah. Yeah, bill knife
they just
United states just had a big breakthrough
about fusion
And and how they made fusion into energy and he said it was one of the biggest things that made fusion into energy
Whatever the fuck it was on it was on the national news. You know, I go, oh, shit. What's he doing?
I see I like him and I like Neil deGrasse Tyson. Yeah, I like them both, you know
Because they had you know, they because I hate science. I'm a history guy. Oh, is this bill not we're gonna see
We can't see in any videos. We're gonna get fucking. Uh, why because youtube is gonna flag us for using copyrighted shit
Go ahead and fuck it under 20 seconds. You can't under 20 seconds. You can win. I win them all the time. Really? Yep
You say it's called fair use under
Maybe 30 seconds or an end it for the first time ever full screen it researchers have been able to create energy from a fusion
Reaction now laura. I could explain all of this in great detail
But basically it's a giant step towards a clean energy future without dependence on fossil fuels
Now said
The department of energy is thinking to officially announce the past is just a few hours, but he is long
Look at this guy. Okay. There he is
And so it is the first time by all accounts
They've gotten more heat out
Then they put in and this is it's amazing and there's as far as I know in the reporting the last few days
no one's mentioned that
in rike fair me
And his colleagues in university of chicago
Did the first chain reaction which led to all the nuclear power from the america? Yeah on december 2nd
1942 okay, so it's quite a little chin stroke
That it's very close to 80 years later to the day
that this breakthrough
Occurred and so you guys if this would work
Yeah, if this is a harbinger if this is really the beginning of something huge
It would change the world. Thank you for explaining that to alice. I won't know. I mean, I was gonna say all of that, but um
See changed the world. I mean nuclear fusion reaction interesting
Wait, what does that say? What does that say after that stay the same energy that powers the sun
You notice. Yeah, you know, it's full funny. I don't watch the news anymore. I used to be a news junkie
I love the news when I first got out of prison. I couldn't get enough
And I was a cnn person and they were they were good back then. I thought
They got so fucking bad. I mean fox. You can't listen. Uh, uh, I mean
They they're not news anymore. They're fucking goddamn entertainment channels
And I think people should fucking know it and they should say it and that's the end of it
I mean they give you what the little shit that I could read in the paper or I could read on the internet
Is what I do and I just don't put it on I get I get sick of that. I really do. It's something like a fucking
I I forget the number, but I want to say it was like
75 percent
Of cnn's ad revenue was from big pharma in the last like two years over the pandemic. Wow
I think that's the right number. Well, yeah, because I don't wear a mask
When I had to yeah, I don't I know
I had to of course like you said
Sometimes I go to the grocery store like in the middle of the pandemic
Like I didn't want to be the one guy that looks like a dick like I didn't want to be the one asshole
really
I will I refuse to go to any business that mandatory to me, especially now forget it
But even then I always said I'm I've become very jaded and I hate being like that. I really know I'm not
I don't like the word hate, but I dislike myself being like that and I'll tell you why
Because I've seen so much bullshit so much government bullshit so much lying. So I watched government fucking
Uh
Lie and cheat the DEA and the super did didn't you read?
Did you just see it about the guy all over the news about the DEA agent who went to prison for 12 years?
And now he came out the day before he went to prison
Look at that up because dea goes to prison in miami and you'll see and he come out and says the prosecute the state
U.s. Attorneys are involved the fucking other all the agents are involved and what of a fucking how they're fucking stealing money
And it's all bullshit the drug war and drug is bullshit
Because they were going places just for trips to have fun and saying they were doing investigations
And this and this u.s. Attorney u.s. Attorneys, you know each each district has a u.s. Attorney
And that fucking head law enforcement that they are the head law people don't think always people think it's the sheriff or it's the
The head law enforcement officer in any area is the state attorney. He is the person
He's the head. That's that's why attorney general is the head law enforcement officer in the united states
Right. He is the head law enforcement officer the attorney general of the united states period
Yeah, well everyone knew that I think I think most people know a lot of people think it's the sheriff
Oh
Biggest the biggest mistake this country made in my lifetime
Would be maybe believe in trump really cared about middle america. I mean that was the biggest con i've ever said
Someone asked me what's the biggest con you ever saw?
trump
literally
People from the midwest alabama louisian
Fucking iowa that he likes them right right right. I mean are you fucking kidding? Are you that fucking blind?
Yeah, that's funny, man. It's funny. I mean it's it's funny
You can signal to people like that and they just fucking worship holy shit. Maybe I gotta figure that out
Maybe maybe I attract too smart of an audience, but I don't fucking know
So did you oh you pull that up the e-agent the prison the way like the war on drug
Right, okay, better in miami age is charged in bribery conspiracy
What it looked when he says in uh, you can look uh roll down
Yeah, it's it's uh, he goes to jail
current u.s. Drug enforcement administration agent and a former supervisor in the agency were charged friday with leaking confidential law enforcement information
To defense lawyers in miami in exchange for 70 grand each. No, that that's a different one cash. No, no put put
DE agent goes to jail in miami or something go
I think his dea goes to prison. Yeah
Uh, better miami agent charge and no keep going
Former dea special agent sentence to prison for money. Uh, is that him did he get how many?
No, he only got drug war unwinnable. Yeah put a drug war
Agents traveling for free
Drug war. Hmm. Yeah, do that ages travel after after I heard that after the civil war
when
The south first started like
Putting the first private prisons in america
That what we were doing was leasing prisoners. We had a prisoner leasing program
Where companies could lease prisoners to work in factories work on their farms and this was basically like a legal loophole for slavery
They do that. I mean, obviously
Prison labor. There's a great 60 minutes piece. They did about how a factory was put at 50 employees making hats
Up in the northeast and they were put out of prison
Put out of business by a prison. Who's got slave wages? Wow
I mean think of that. You know, we we are the only country first of all, you're boy
You're gonna get me on a fucking tear. You do know the united states is the worst country in incarceration
More people per capita, right? I'm per capita per numbers
We have more people incarcerated in china
And they're fucking two one point three
Actually, india is the new leader of world population
india surpassed china
But neither of those countries got too many people incarcerated neither of them
Now people say oh, but they cut their hands off. That's bullshit. That's propaganda. That's your night. It's it. That's night
You don't think the united states kills motherfuckers. Yeah, but china kills motherfuckers way more, you know, where do you hear?
I'll tell you why I got jaded. They got mobile death squads. Listen mobile death squad. They got uber execution
You want to hear you're fucking watching too much fucking team. It's true. Okay, listen, listen
You know, it's a death penalty to do fucking tax fraud or any kind of financial fraud any white collar crime
We should make that congressman. Let me let me explain any kind of fraud in china is punishable by death. Okay, listen
China does not have a conspiracy law
Do you know what the conspiracy law is?
Do you know how it works? That's a way to like wrap multiple people up into a well, no
I got riko, but I was I was riko is conspiracy, right?
riko is two or more acting in defense of a common crime for the good of an organization now
You take conspiracy. Here's what it means. You me and austin are sitting in this room. We're planning a fucking bank robber
Great, right?
Just sitting in bullshit and having a few fucking waters you your nice sponsor gives us more waters liquid death for fucking the robbery
So we're fucking discussing it
And you say, you know, I'm out man. I I just fucking I I don't want to do this. Okay. We were bullshitting anyway. No matter
You don't do it
We go do it you get arrested
For conspiracy
You get arrested. We could have all got arrested if they just knew we were talking about that. That's a conspiracy law
It is the fucking most
horrendous law
no other country does it
because
Did you hear about that guy bout? Did you hear what I said the judge in that case when she gave him the minimum
guideline was 25 years
she says
You don't know he was going to do anything you set up a sting operation on him the battle
And you know what bouts people said is correct
If you go by the standard they put him it
Every one of these fucking arms people sell fucking guns and gun old and shows and shit should go to prison
Well, they do
Matty don't that's the problem. I had the guy from war dogs on here. He went to uh
His we're gonna have a good show talking about our guests. That's the main guy effer them
The main guy effer him went to prison for a few he only went for like maybe five years
But david he got house arrest
But I mean they were selling the shit to the army and what what did one guy get?
One guy got five years the other guy got house arrest. Why did why did one get five and one house arrested because the guy who did
the ratting or uh
How to be stitches so the guy who did effer him who did five years
he was the one running the company and basically telling everyone what to do and
The guy david who was his partner he got kicked
Effer him fired him and kicked him out of the company before the investigation started before everyone got taken down
And he didn't pay him a dime
But he gets arrested
Who you said the guy david got arrested did he got he was on house arrest. That's how well it's arrested
And he's got a record. You got a sense something. Yeah, he was on house arrest for I think over a year. Is that feds?
I bull uh, what was the case? I don't believe so, you know, uh sounds like it. What's the case?
What do you mean? What was the case about? It was about um,
He was so efferman david. It's it's have you ever seen the movie war dogs?
They were uh, they were using the government's website where you can basically bid on federal contracts
Oh, that's the federal they were bittering on bidding on federal contracts. They won a
Over a hundred million dollar arms contract to supply ak-47 ammo to
People in iraq to our our government in iraq
and uh, they were so they
They sourced it from albania
But I guess there was a law that was in place where
We are now we are not allowed to buy or do any sort of transaction with china regarding ammunition or guns or anything
Just like cuba
So they were buying it and and they found out in the process when they got the deal
They got this weapon for they got these bullets for a really good price in albania or something like this
I'm trying they found out once they made the deal that this fucking ammunition was sourced from china decades before
Because it had china the boxes had chinese markings on them
So they're like fuck, but there was nothing wrong with the ammo
It was originally sold from china brought from china to albania decades ago in another conflict
And so they thought fuck it. We're just gonna repackage it. So no one knows it's from china
And we're gonna just fucking we're gonna fulfill the contract
And hope nothing goes wrong. They were fucking selling all this weapon. They were selling all this ammo to the government
They was being shipped to iraq
Nothing all the wet all the uh ammo was firing perfectly. There was nothing going wrong with it
And an investigator in tampa. I forget the name of the agency you worked for
I remember now i'm kind of like there was a big new york times article that came out
And they were trying to like say like look these guys are breaking the law
They're fucking selling chinese ammo these kids
They were in their like early 20s when they were doing this multi fucking hundred million dollar contract and um
They weren't hurting anybody the guys from the army. We're like, this is fucking fine
There's nothing wrong with this ammo. We fired all of it and one one not one round has been
But by but biden can go over there and shake his hand
It can go to whoever and hang out and do you know just like saudi arabia
You know with the kashogi thing, you know, I was a big big supporter of live golf
I bashed the pga talk commission at every fucking show why because
They wanted a monopoly to pga tour. Yes, and here's what got me mad. They were just here five minutes down the street. Oh fuck
They were just here at the pelican golf club five minutes down the street from here the tiger and rory and all those guys
And I used to be a big rory fan. I'm a big golfer, you know, I was a three handicap. I was pretty good
And I golfed I got for a lot of pros. I got the programs and I got for the nick list and
And I'll tell you what I got so mad at the pga. Here's where I got mad
I fucking
The commissioner tim not tim pinching. What the fuck is the jerk off name? I fucking mentioned them all jay monan
Every fuck when he enlisted the people from 9 11
To fucking write the players the survivors of 9 11
He enlisted them to write letters saying you shouldn't work with with you should
He had the survivors of 9 11 calling these players to not go over to live
You know, and here's this was the guy from the top guy at pga the pga tour to jay monahan
Who's the fucking goddamn commissioner to pga tour and listen how wrong that is?
The pga tour had a fucking event in february that that yeah, you knew that right this year
They had a tournament there february or last year whatever the first year they started
That's the one where they interviewed trump about it and the the protesters were there and they asked trump
That trump was like, well, you know, we still haven't gotten to the bottom of 9 11. No, no, it was about the
shahogi to you know, kashogi there
And it got me so many because
Everybody every one of us are doing something with fucking sordia rabie with your 401k or whatever the fuck you're doing
There's companies that are invested there and there's some companies that are owned sordia
Stop the fucking hypocrisy of saying let's not do it because there's a fucking one incident
How many fucking people do you think the united states is killed?
I see him kill people in prison. I see it all the time. I meant that I mean for real shit
And we had the balls to try to tell these players who can make more money and and do stuff
They're independent country. So they sign I get what they sign but fucking this commission
How does he find 52 million dollars the next fucking, you know, you know next year to getting 52 more million into their pump into their
Right price funds, right? Oh, you just found 52 million, right? You fucking people
Yeah, they had a monopoly rory was fucked. I was a big rory fan, but I don't I'm not I seen it
I told you I saw a rory hit a golf ball
I was sitting at a bench right behind him in jupiter in jupiter hills beautiful course
And the general manager wanted my book and he invited me out. That's right. Yeah, we're the friend
So I don't know what it is. I don't know if it's now that they have more competition or they're trying harder now
But they just did a fucking big pga event right down the street from here at the pelican
And they did it. I didn't know they did it at night
Really? So it was a nighttime. They had the fucking stadium lighting throughout there. No, I didn't go
It was like fucking how you golfing like 10 grand a ticket, but like but it was it was it was at night
And they're 10 grand a tick stop. You can't go by that quick. I don't know. You can't say I don't know
It was in the thousands. Okay thousands that thought for a fucking golf ticket to go watch and watch these guys
Yeah, they better be giving me blowjobs every hole. I know that's what I'm saying. That's why I didn't go
So they no blowjobs. So they ain't no fucks or anything. They're miking up the golfers and it's at night
It was fucking cool. It was entertaining and I never seen the pga
I like when they do those events, you know, they
Think brady and or bring a bet, you know the golfer the athletes, you know
Because you see how fucking but I wonder if they're doing that now because it's like they have competition
It's making them better competition is good. It makes you have to evolve and get better and and you know, you know
What live has done to
They've they've they've written they're bringing people who don't know golf into golf
Younger people with the concerts and everything else and somebody might pick up on it
They're doing a lot of good things that people are not highly because you know golf is dying
You know, it was bigger when I was younger
Then it's come down, you know got up with tiger now
It's going down a little bit because I mean you're a golfer you're a golfer. I get it. You're gonna love it
You watch I used to why I never missed the golf fuck anything else. I never missed the tournament
I could tell you where I was when Nicholas won his 80s, you know in 86 was fucking green jacket
I mean, that's a moment to me. Yeah, literally. Yeah, uh, and I loved it ate it breathed it
I got so mad. I did not watch one pj tour event
I watch majors because they're the non pj and I'm glad no majors stop people
Uh, and I think the world golf uh, uh
scoring
You know world golf points should come up with a system
I get where they don't want 48 dollars a field and there's also a uh, no cut
So, you know, you don't know and you can't do money, but there's no question in my mind. Dustin Johnson was the best golfer this year
Yeah, 30 first of all, you know, I'm just money won
Over 30
Million now maybe 34 million something. Go. Go. Can you google that please? How much is Dustin Johnson, uh, pg
Live earnings. I wonder where those live contracts. Now listen to this. Oh, you know what they are, right? No
Dustin Johnson got 125 million. He got 67 million now. Phil Mickelson was the highest paid athlete last year
He got 100 million up front. He got 200 million now country got 100 million up front. Oh, he's easy pulling it up
Uh, yeah, yeah, right? Uh, no, what does it say?
Official tournament earnings. No, that's career. Uh, I want I wanted you to uh, he got more money
To sign with live then he got in his whole career. Yeah, I heard some of that
Just put up live liv they offered a tiger like a billion. Look at this. That's the Johnson 35 million with live one year
30
Did you know what every play is saying can find out how much live offered tiger?
Hey, I was like, did you know the best one? No, uh, it was uh, there's a young guy forget his name. Oh, harrell vaughner
harrell vaughner goes over and he goes listen. He goes
They talked about him coming over and he goes
This is my job. I don't have money
He goes i'm trying to make money for my kids
Right. He goes and they're trying to tell me I can't 700 800 million. I thought it was more
No, that's right. That's very good. I know jack nicholas. They offered a lot of money to jack
Uh, and you know, you notice jack nicholas has not said anything. He's smart. See that's the thing
I wonder what's what those live contracts look like as far as like it's oh, yeah, yeah, you mean like rolling them
Yeah, yeah, I I'd like to know like you can't fucking be you can't say no gay shit
No, I don't think so dress like this. You can't be have your shirt off like I have not weird
shorts on
You they wear shorts and live do that. Yeah, they change that rule and that's the smartest rule they ever made
Why don't you know what? I probably can't speak out against this. I mean, obviously they can't speak out against the Saudi Arabian government
I mean nobody does anyway. There's gotta be some fucking
No, see don't see maybe I don't know you believe it too much of the government our government. The United States said
Oh, we we're open. We're fucking less open in him. No way jay monahan sold anybody. Yes. I think we're less
Yes, absolutely. What do you think black funds are and all that shit? They tell you what they want to tell you, you know, uh
I'll tell you a quick story when I was in the military. I was in the coast. I told you I went on a
boat the ship called the Jarvis, which is out of Hawaii
It was a 378 foot high endurance cutter. That was my second. That's when I ended up getting hurt in the Bering Sea
Well, our job was to go enforce the 200 mile fisheries conservation zone
The end of every country has a fisheries conservation zone of 200 miles
That means any ships in your water you can check them see if they were taking the right fish
They take the wrong fish. They get fined all this shit a whole bunch of shit
So we used to do that
Well, we used to board russian boats we used to board maru boats are japanese boats. We used to board other country boats
I was sitting drinking vodka on a boat with the heavyweight champ of russia. Okay
and the propaganda
that
We heard about them was bullshit
Uh, and and you know the evil um, you know the fucking doth feeders every yeah
They have assholes like poot know whoever the fuck it is and we had assholes like trump or this one
Yeah, whoever they are. I mean not even trump. I don't give a fuck who they are you biden biden's brain dead too
I mean, what how sad is our country? We can't get too fucking other than these guys to run for fucking office
I actually like the gay guy. I thought people to judge would have been the best fucking president really seven languages
A mate listen he spoke seven languages fluently
He fucking god. There was a major in the military. He he's the only fucking that ran anything
All these fucking congressmen and shit don't do shit. He ran the city. He was a mayor
So you could talk talked about what it is. Anyway, uh
The propaganda we heard about the brush it was so much bullshit and I learned that back in the 80s
So I I at that point I started
Questioning a little bit, you know, I'm talking about I'm an American through and through
I mean, I love my country and all I can I'm a retired veteran all that kind of shit
Uh, but I don't believe every word they say I've watched too much shit that they do and they're too big
You know, when you see
Kamala Harris what she did I can't stand her
I won't use the word hate but I cannot stand actually I had some people say that I threatened her and you're gonna have the secret service
At your fucking show. Oh, yeah, I didn't threaten her of course
Uh, but that bitch I think I said that bitch should be shot, you know, not like, you know
You know, you'd say it off hand something bad. No, it wasn't let me tell you why
She had evidence and the actual fucking data to release a thousand people were wrongly convicted with dna
She wouldn't do it. She didn't do it. I think I heard this
Is that fucked up and she probably just did it for politics. It was
Bullshit exactly right
Danny it it it's fresh. She's just trying to advance her career. That's the problem with all politicians
Is all they care about is getting in the good graces of people that can help them or make them more money
Well politicians we're gonna get I gotta get back on live because that was a big topic for me for months
A question would have you watched live?
They have fucking team tournament setups that are off the fucking charts
Really the cap picks their team and and just Dustin Johnson and their team won that so much money
Pat Perez was on his team
See it always made me laugh about this whole thing though. A lot of these guys were talking out against phil michelson
So phil deserved the 200 million because he got the because he was the first one that said this is right
Why should we be held back everything else?
He was right and he was ostracized by a lot of the players that are playing and live right now
Whether it's uh pat Perez and these guys were saying, you know, you shouldn't you got to stick with the pj
People find it out. The pj drawer is bullshit. They fucking are
A conglomerate. They want to just they just want to monopolize it and they did they think they get did you know
John rom when he was the world number one money leader
Best person in the sport. He made 7.9 million. Do you know what stef curry made?
40 million. Yeah, but he made yeah, that's from the mba
What whatever it is if you take the highest paid of every sport
And you look at john rom who had the best year
number one money list most wins
7.9 million now don't get me wrong. They had a guy today the last year the guy made about 18 million
He made a lot of million. What was his name? Uh
Holy fuck that's how much I don't like watching anymore. He was a good young guy came out of nowhere
Not young but yeah young
Whatever the fuck my point is
They were so underpaid. They were so underpaid
Yeah, uh the pga tour were all the sponsorship money all the corporate money. They were way underpaid and
Now you got to remember this for the guy that's on
Trying to get in there and making a tournament or even a hop top 125
You know, you take a million dollars out of the top 120. I think it was a million bucks
That's not as much as you think when you're playing the coaches and staffs and your taxes and your everything
The guy's fucking like me less
You know what I mean? He's fucking gonna pay if he if he pays 30 taxes. He's getting 700,000
Now how much is he going for a manager and a trainer and a fucking uh, uh swing coach and another fucking 20 30% on top of that
Okay, he makes half a million dollars a year. A lot of people make a half million dollars fucking. Yeah
That guy's got no family life. He's on the road every fucking day. He's fucking, you know, I know because I I know a lot of golfers
He's a carney with a dental plan. Yeah. Yeah, that's true
you know, I know a lot of those guys and
And and the pga tour wouldn't change as well like live change it to shorts
Every single sport changes
You look at baseball
That they're coming over to clock this year. You know that there's a clock
The pitch clock football changes all the fucking time balls one of the ones is like, uh, how much longer?
They're gonna drag this out. It's just a slow game and that's what they're trying to get a clock
Because you know, you go from football or fucking basketball or hockey and then you talk baseball
It's like fucking watching paint dry. Right. I mean, you know, it really is going from those sports
It really every sport changes and even like the look at the big fucking sports talking talking like talking head shows
They never talk about baseball
Oh, they have oh, yes, they do come on this show
You're talking about they have baseball shows
Maybe like for niche audiences, but like the big shows like
Undisputed or first take
Never talk about baseball. No, yes, they do. Especially the world series was great
I mean, maybe they'll mention it like fleetingly, but they don't but they're only from that sport like uh, like don't get me wrong
I think baseball is cool. I actually I love baseball. I like I like watching baseball. I don't watch every game
I like taking my like a kid or something like going. Yeah, it's fun. I used to cut school back in the day
It's really fun watching. I'm a person but like it just seems like
It's not america's past time. It's past its time
I don't know my my brother and I were the first two civilians on the yankee school board when he changed his channel
changed the uh
Got the new stadium in 1977
We jumped over the right field wall, which is a space between
The the fence and the wall and we're in dollar bleacher seats dollar. That's what they call us back then a dollar
We used to cut school and net fuck school jump on a train
I often look about kids today the pussies. They are
I didn't take no fucking school bus. We had fucking city buses
And fucking we would travel the trains. I was working at fucking 15 years old going down to manhattan on a fucking train
I remember 1970
I think you could look that up 77 blackout new york. I was 16 years old
And I got fucking caught in a subway system during the blackout when the fucking train went dead
I'm in the middle of hollam
Fucking middle. I hit under a fucking park car until I saw a cab with a light on
And you know, I I look at back. I uh look new york city by 77
Fucking larry's right on man. I've never even heard about this. The whole city went dark. I haven't looked at me
Uh, the new york city blackout of 1977 was uh, click on that wikipedia. It's like 1340 two days. Yeah
The only new york city blackout, uh
1977 was an electricity blackout that affected most of new york city on july 13th through the 14th
So two days. Yeah, the only unaffected neighborhoods in the city were in southern queens
Yep, including neighborhoods of the rockaways. Wow
And also, uh, you could look at uh, uh, city
What kind of fuckery happened during those two days? I bet you was like the purge. Oh go look at see scroll that I did co-op city
Co-op city we used to when I was a young
After the co-op city was blacked out
Was co-op city blacked out during during the I'm sure I mean, no
They said they said the only two no, no, no, I think it's wrong. Watch this co-op city
They had their own generates. We were watching it from where we lived and it was like oh generators
Yeah, no not generates their own electrical plant outside the city. It's called co-op city
Co-op city new york. Was it blacked out?
But I'm saying no, I'll be pretty good today. I'm not my dates are pretty good. What do you think you are?
You know, you gotta like that. You know, you're gonna like that. You're on that fucking dick juice
You got a better memory. You're damn right that dick. I'm gonna show it to you. You when we when I leave
I'm you gonna go in with me. Oh fuck you could light that cigar, you know, you shoot me up with it
Give me a shot. Yeah, of course
I've shot many people up with it
You gotta get to co-op city. Oh, yeah
No co-op city and and the story of the day just that just put his co-ops was
Co-op city was co-op city
I don't know did co-op city have electric during the blackout in 77. That's what you gotta
You're saying it didn't I see it you say it did have power
It did it was lit up like a fucking christmas tree. Is he putting that are you putting that in?
Oh, I just want to see that the uh, the uh, uh
Man, I think of my life, you know right now. I'm 61 and uh, I said
That's why I don't think I'm a live lady
Open heart surgery my fucking back. You've seen this back. Yeah, but who knows? I'll show it on
I'll show it on your all right
Oh
Holy shit line all the way from your ass to the top of your back
That was the microphone stand fell over. Oh this no, no, no this
Oh, oh, yeah. Yeah, you're good. You're good. The uh, you finally he can't find it. That's all right
I'll get a mic need a mic. I get on my phone get it, but don't worry. We just did three hours. Okay. What let's wrap it up
Three hours and 15 minutes actually an hours. What time did I get here?
You don't hear it like 130 130. Yeah, we saw it right away. What time do you normally go from
What time what time do I don't want to okay here on a how you're gonna do two things you and I are gonna do two things
what
I'm gonna get you some good guests and you're gonna get me some good guests. Let's do it
I got some good ones for you. Okay, and then I was think I was thinking other podcasters and the guys that you can try to get
You know, yeah push people to or something like my son asked me to get something from you once and what it was
I forget whose name want some stickers
Yeah, I you know, I wear your shirt. Do you really I got another one. I said you a picture with me in your shirt
Oh, yeah, you did. You gave me the pornhub shirt
Yeah, yeah, that was good. Let me tell you what it's some more. Let me tell you what happened
I was at the airport right and someone goes
You Larry Lawton, I said, oh, yeah, he goes you Larry Lawton. I said, yeah, he goes
Concrete is that another show I said, yeah, it's a friend of mine over at st. Pete
Holy shit, and that's when I took the picture. I said, you know, because they notice it like that
You know and people do and I I use you or something. All right. Yeah, nothing. All right. You want to clean this up here?
Yeah, let's let's uh, I got some things to tell plug plug your cigars your youtube your podcast everything
Ah plug it. I think I know it. Yes
If you got to check out any of my videos or my pop first of all my podcast is the real deal with Larry Lawton
We were top 1%
At a 2.9 million something podcast, but here's the better nut
We do something no one does we literally never ever cut
I have to tell people if you come in here if you want to get canceled
You want to say some bullshit?
Say it because that's what's going to happen. I we have not if a friend comes in I fuck up
Uh, we garfield we made a stall. He goes on his route and people say oh, you're on Larry's show and shit like that
Because we got a lot of people and I because the paper follows us and everything
Uh, and so that's the real deal and that goes on if every monday and friday and we literally tape it
It's up. So it's not every day. No monday and friday. Oh monday and friday
We have some really good shows coming up on that
And I had guys like randy linia ceo's and stuff congressmen stuff like that and then my youtube channel
I still love that and I still do ask me any things. I do some crazy shit. I got something else coming
I gotta tell I'm gonna tease it right here. I have a cooking show. We did out first
I got some professionals coming down from california, obviously
I worked with them on other tv shows and it's gonna be uh on the road with larry law and cooking around the world
We actually went did one pilot show people fucking love and networks are interested already. I'm i'm i'm the show you in the rv
I made
I'm changing things in the rv because it's gonna be a mobile studio. I mean a cooking studio
That's amazing that and I got obviously my program and I speak all over the country
Put the cigars. Please go check them out. The cigars are my legacy. They got a website
Yes, crooked diamond.com crooked diamond.com. Is it crooked diamond?
about to find out yeah
Crooked diamonds cigar.com crooked diamonds cigar.com. You gotta be 20 on humidor
Yeah, it's beautiful. It's a beautiful box. Is that a great box?
And look at this magnetics here. It's unbelievable. There we go. Yeah, look at it. That's it. Yeah, that my cigar
We have three side. We have the four sizes the church hill
Which is a seven by 50 then we got a six by 50
We got a five by 50 and a uh six by 60 and the larry special the seven by seven
seven by six seven by six
Is it seven by six with the smiley face on the tip? Oh, you know, nobody knows that
Oh, now you want me to cut out my pocket? No, you can leave it. You don't want to know my dick is everywhere anyway
I'm sure if anybody googled my fucking dick, it'll be somewhere. I guarantee that
Oh, I'm gonna put this right next to carills. Do I have to take take a couple of yeah couple
I got I got them on my thing and people go. What are they? I got the buccaneers ones too. Like the bucks logo
I like the porn one. Yeah, of course. I do. I don't have the stickers for the porn one. Yeah, the porn's the best
All right, larry. Thanks again, man. And thank you. Hey, I want to say thanks again and
Are you gonna come over see me? Yeah. Yeah, let's do it. I'll come over next time. There's surf. I'll come over there
I'll call off a surf trip. We'll come to you. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Good. I I'll let you serve
I know a lot of surfers too and and they know when it's it. I'll hook you up. Let's do it. Have a great day. All right. Goodbye world
