What would you say to your father if he was sitting here right now?
Are you sorry, son of a bitch? Go to hell.
Honestly.
And that's where he is at. In hell.
I had his son.
We're getting married towards a slide. Do you guys hear it and bite it?
I keep him on the track, he keeps me on her way.
The boat doesn't sunk, dude. Man, fuck it. It's a submarine, though.
Ben and Trish got caught shooting fucking pills inside of there.
And so the marina got chapped ass about me. I was out fishing.
Somebody stole my solar panels. The batteries went dead. The boat sunk.
Everything I owned, dude. My laser lights.
Every guitar. Every fucking thing went down.
Dude, I'm about ready to cry right in front of this camera.
You see my boat and how happy I was there? I lost everything.
And now fucking, now they want to find me for fucking the boat that I don't own.
Because it's out there, they want to charge me a felony charge.
Fuck it because it sunk. It's not even in my name.
Carol at Space rode out and got the Marilyn Manson pictures and the Ozzy pictures.
And thank god I let my buddy, my Bose 901 speakers, I got them. So they're still tearing up the place now.
Me and Carol were fucking, she wanted a box last night.
So I'm like, Carol, you've never been in a fight before in your life.
And she goes, I know, but I'm ready. And I'm like, fuck yeah, let's do this.
So she was bouncing around like a rabbit. Yeah.
That bitch. Oh yeah. Nice and purple. Oh yeah.
Damn, she cracked you. Fuck yeah, she did.
I don't even remember. I was pretty drunk.
I got this beautiful mark on my hand. That's from my face. There's sweetie poo.
It's okay. These are my reality views.
I'm not drunk. My life insurance. I'm going paralyzed.
This is my brand new home 20. Fuck yeah.
That's where she smashed my face in the door.
Everyone tells me you need to find a lady named Hollywood Kim.
Holy shit. That's the anger in this fucking bitch I've never seen in my life.
Kim, vodka, Kim. That's a story.
Oh, a couple of people have been telling me I need to find a lady named Kim.
She's a fucking crackhead. She used to kick guys ass on the dock.
He might be dead.
Kim. That would be probably Hollywood Kim, I think.
If you look up St. Pete Times article, that's her.
She's gone further downhill from what I've seen when she's riding a bike,
or I've seen her on the road, on the sidewalk, off the chart.
Yeah, really off the chart. You need to hang out and really see.
She's bleeding out of her fucking piss hole everywhere, always.
They had to fucking cut fucking cunt out of her or something,
whatever they do in surgery like that. I don't know. Some kind of cunt cut.
How do we find this lady?
Yeah, just be at the liquor store when they open.
Hi, how you doing? Peace, love, and happiness always.
My name's Hollywood Kim, and I'm going to my favorite store now.
Follow me. My name is Kimberly, and I'm a fisherwoman of Madeira Beach.
I started 30 years ago. Caught the fourth great white ever caught in the gulf,
and I had to jump on it and gut it in the water. I was 17 years old.
Where's my hug?
Come here. I need my favorite, my usual, my painted skull, and my golden cigars, please.
Hey, who's your girl? Hey, last no fisherwoman of Madeira Beach still rules.
You got the right one, baby. I had a very abusive father. I had a son at 17.
Mama's coming home. At six o'clock every morning, I'd get up, and I would ride my bike down the
trailer park and go to the Daffody Bayway and hide from my father. I'd go out to the beach, cry,
and when I heard his keys jingling, I knew it was time to run. I got beans, I got lettuce,
I got snapdragons here that are coming back again, avocado, I got tomato. He molested me from
the time I was four to the time I was 14. At 14, I ran away, and then at 17, I went back
because my grandmother was dying, and that's when he gave me my son. Nobody believed me because he
was a cop. I ran back down here as soon as I found out I was pregnant because he was chasing me
from Alabama to Florida threatening to kill me because I had to spawn.
Papa's going to jail tomorrow. I had an open container in Wendixie, and I'm an alcoholic,
and I had to pop the bottle to make myself feel better to ride my bike,
and they caught me with an open bottle, so I'm going to jail for an open container.
I wanted to swim through the water and not turn back. That's why I can't have a relationship.
Me and Terry can't have a sexual relationship because of this. It ruined me.
How has that influenced your life today? It makes me want to drink and forget about it,
honestly. It's turned me into an alcoholic. I know you can smell it on me.
Riding my bike is like therapy. Having a wife, having a job right now because of my cancer,
I'm having a hard time with it, but other than that, I'm dealing with it.
We live this way. We've got a right to do that. I love Madeira Beach. It's all
It's great. Madeira Beach is the one place to sleep.
I'll sleep right there. My pet will sleep right there.
We survive, all of us, boat to boat to boat. We take care of each other.
We do. We have no family. We don't. This is what we have to do. This is our damn job.
Madeira Beach sucks.
They, where's the fish come from? I think it was order of NAMM sandwich.
Where do you think that comes from? They come from us.
This used to be good place to live. It ain't no more.
All these fishermen help other fishermen. If you're hungry, get up. It's called friendship.
Fishermen's code of honor.
Loads of kisses, all right? All right. Hey, I appreciate your concern.
The first thing I do when I leave the store is I've got to have a shot
because I have the shakes a little bit because I have a drink for a day.
So somebody's got to have something to drink to calm their nerves. And here it goes.
Straight bucka. Got to love it.
We're just doing a documentary. We're going to do a documentary on how someone who lived
by himself helped someone who was homeless and malnutritioned in April.
And now I got to pay $700 to get her evicted. And I got to wait 28 days to do it because
she's an abusive alcoholic fuck from hell. She will not leave my fucking house. I'm telling
you what you're doing. You can't evict me. She's an abusive, see? I can't evict her.
I've never seen a bigger piece of garbage. Is that on? You're fucking rude. I'm rude.
And it's my house that she's an evict. And I'm paying you to stay here. And I clean your house
and I scrub your baseboards and I scrub your refrigerator. I scrub your refrigerator. I scrub
everything. Good luck. Good luck. Please take me to the water. That's where I belong. I need the water.
It gets me therapy. I need the water.
So we're finally by the water. How do you feel?
I feel at home. Do you hear the laps of the water right now? If I lived in these boats like I used
to, the laps on the boats used to give me solemn. I could sit on the back of the platform and listen
for my riding reel or my bandit to go off and be able to catch fish. I'm grateful that I can live
through these fishermen and be respected because I'm a strong fisherwoman. Why do I deserve respect?
I bust my ass all my life and I lived on my own since I was 13 years old. My life was done years
ago when I was a child. When I was four years old, my daddy put me down and done what he done to me.
My life was done. I gave up.
My son was so young he didn't understand what was going on. I would buy my stereo and I'd put
paperwork in the back of it and give him notes.
You can say one thing to your son right now, what would you say?
Can I look at you and tell you?
Kevin, son, I love you so very much. This is your real mama and I want you to be strong.
I don't want you to go down the wrong path but I want you to come see your mama.
Please love life and just live it happily and be here for me because I've been there for you.
Whether you know it or not, I've been there for you son. I love you.
