The mayor of Magaville, Magaville, what's up man, thanks for coming back.
It's been a while.
Yeah, I've seen you guys in elevated and blown up.
Yeah, same with you bro, congrats on all your success lately.
Appreciate it, appreciate it.
You've been, especially that Vice article, that was hilarious.
How did that recent one?
That Vice article just came out like last month, didn't it?
Yeah, they said the mayor of Magaville is a white rapper, you know, they had to throw
that in there.
Did they tell you before they did that that they were going to shit on you in the whole
article or did you just kind of do it?
No, but I do think the article for them coming already known that they were going to write
something super negative being left, they did pretty good, I felt.
They twisted a couple things around that I didn't really like, but you know, it's media,
you're going to get what you get, so it's a pretty big publication, so I wasn't really
tripping on it, but they kind of already come out and you could tell from just being around
someone who doesn't really represent the same things you represent or feel the same way
you feel, you could get that vibe, you know, we're in the studio making these songs, I
can see like somebody rolling their eyes or being like, you know.
How many songs are you making a week, like what are you doing like right now as far as
like your daily kind of schedule, are you just recording music every day or?
Well, yeah, I just kind of like, you know, in this lane you really got to watch the news,
you know, really kind of find out what's going on in the world.
What do you watch?
Well, I watch CNN, this is here, they're talking about, watch some Fox News, watch a lot of
podcasts, you know what I'm saying, watch, you guys got to stay hip to what's going on,
because it's a trendy lane, so the music has to be trendy a little bit, you know, you
got to kind of pay attention what's going on, but I'm recording pretty much every night,
I record songs every day, sometimes 10 a day, 20 a day, I mean, I record a lot of music,
last year I dropped 10 albums.
You are like one of the few, like you just mentioned that there's a bunch of them, but
one of the few, like hyper political rappers, like a lot of people, especially hip hop fans,
they're not really into fucking politics, you know what I mean?
They're afraid.
Yeah, they're afraid to be open with it.
Or they're not independent, see everybody's fake independent.
Afraid or like they don't, like me, I fucking hate politics, like I don't, it's so hard
to understand it.
There's so many things.
Well, there are certain people that don't are afraid to get attached to it and lose
the fans or lose what they got, you know what I mean, a lot of people are afraid to
protect their brand.
You know what I mean?
And some people like me, it's just, I built my brand, including this, you know?
Was there ever a time in the beginning where you were scared for that?
No, I wasn't scared because I'm just running with it.
You were just running with it.
It's going to stand on what I believe in no matter what.
Just be who you are.
So, I was rocking with Trump in the very beginning of 2016.
I had the very first pro Trump song.
People said, oh, it's career suicide.
I did a video of Rick Ross after that.
Scoot that thing a little bit closer.
You just move it.
Recently, I just did a video with Kodak Black, you know what I'm saying?
Hell, yeah.
People can't tell you what you're going to do or your outcome's going to be.
You just got to get in there and make a shake, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
At what point did you decide to kind of rebrand your persona around Trump?
Well, it was kind of like, in 2016, I came out as Trump's nephew.
That was the first video we did, came in on the helicopter with Trump in the ground.
It's just the way you give it to people is crazy, you know what I mean?
So most times on social media, if you see a post that would be on a blog site, you know,
you're paying for blog posts and shoutouts to build your brand, it would usually like
at your name.
So the second time around when I put out Silver Spoon, compared with my all my different releases,
I said, don't tag my name.
Like make this look like you're just going to shit on me.
Like make this look like that you want to share this and you're cracking the case and
you got information nobody got.
Donald Trump has a nephew with face tattoos that wraps.
Check this out.
It's crazy.
And when it's read like that without being tagged, people got to really dig into it
because they're like, well, this isn't a sponsored post.
Yeah, they're going to see that.
So it's kind of like, you know, I flipped the game on them, got it out there.
But at first it was with Trump was, I felt like I was a Donald Trump a rat.
You know, everybody was supporting me.
Everybody was rocking with me.
Everybody saw the big features.
They saw the lifestyle, but they didn't want to give my flowers.
I felt like Trump, everybody loved Trump.
Everybody was down with Trump.
Every rapper was rapping.
Like they're a boss like Trump, give money like Trump, go into his hotels, watching the
boxing matches.
Everybody was a big fan of Trump.
Yeah.
Then he said, going to be the president.
And everybody laughed.
So they'll never happen.
Yeah.
Then he became the president.
And then everybody started hating on Trump.
I hate Trump.
He's racist.
He's this.
Trump's did more for the black, African American, African American community than any president
ever has.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
Trump said it's all types of stuff for the minorities.
He's did all types of stuff for all types of people.
And you know, people loved him at one time.
And then when he got his shine, you know, they hated him.
So I felt like that a wrap with me.
Then as I really started getting into the music in 2016 and really learning about, you
know, the political aspect of it, I realized that they just don't, the government is not
going to ever tell you something you're supposed to know.
You know, we pay for, you know, people getting cancer treatment, diabetic treatment, but
a vaccine's free.
If a vaccine was really going to save you, it wouldn't be free.
It would cost money.
Right.
And the stuff that they kick us is untrue to me.
And I've always been someone that's, you know, found my own way.
So I scheduled a lot of things around Trump.
People love Trump.
Trump's a winner.
I'm a winner.
I'm a hustler.
I'm an entrepreneur.
I'm a businessman.
So there's not going to be better.
By the way, I appreciate you taking the vaccine before you came in.
I did.
They said I had to get the vaccine, man.
I got that fake vaccine card.
Yeah.
We're giving about a time out next door.
True to those people over in Canada that sent them over to me, so.
When did you get that Rolls Royce?
I had a couple of rolls.
Was that a phantom or is that a ghost?
That's a ghost.
A ghost, okay.
A rapper to Richie Rich with Trump's nephew on the front.
Okay.
You know, I got the big Trump truck.
Yeah.
Got a couple cars, man.
But the end of the day is like all my stuff's branding.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I brand everything I got.
Definitely.
It's all a business.
A lot of people these days just make excuses why they can't win.
You know, I got all the way to, you know, linking with Trump, being on stage around him,
flicking it up, taking photos, getting support from all these people.
I got face tattoos.
You know what I mean?
I don't look like the normal Republican to them.
Yeah.
But they were so judgmental.
Why am I going to get in?
You think rap music is what did it for me?
They're probably don't listen to rap music.
So one thing I really did is I turned my fan base into 40 and 60 year old or people at
Mar-a-Largo riding around above the 40 out of blow.
You know what I mean?
But I cleaned a lot of things up too.
Cause at one time I didn't realize how many children listen to me.
That was kind of thing with vice.
They made it seem like, you know, blow had no success in his early rap career.
Well, I mean, I got songs for Rick Ross before that, Paul Wall before that.
Vanilla ice before that, a little dirt before that, millions of views, videos in the middle.
I mean, that success radio stations playing my music, you know, but that was like my thing
with Trump.
They're not giving me my flowers.
So I'm going to make my own lane, my own genre.
And people said it was career suicide.
Now there's two, 300 people doing the same thing, trying to do what I was doing.
Yeah.
You know, another big name, Bryson Gray, you know, he was somebody who really did this
thing.
He had some really big songs.
We came together and kind of like took off from there with the music.
And it's like, you just got to stay up to date.
My thing is I'm in the streets with the Patriots, like the people.
Anytime you see a blow video, there's hundreds of people in the video.
These aren't paid actors.
These are patriots that feel the same way I feel.
They respect what I'm doing.
That's why I'm the mayor of Magaville.
I say, Hey, I'm doing a video tomorrow.
They ran a shine.
They're out there with me.
And that's the difference before everybody was just trying to come to a video and get
something at it.
They were a rapper too.
They wanted a rap.
These are just everyday people, not even the wealthiest people in the world.
They're spending their last $20, $30 on a t-shirt for me and a hat to be in my video.
So I got a lot of love and I respect them for what they're standing for.
Cause you know, no matter what about the money, Trump is in paying these people and the elections
passed a year and a half ago and people are still out here as rallies are popping.
Trump's still popping.
Yeah.
He's still the president.
We don't see 46.
It's just not real.
How much censorship are you dealing with on social media?
The censorship is beyond crazy.
One thing is like, I never realized how bad censorship was until you're censored.
So sometimes you just hear people say like, I'm getting shadow banned and censored and
you're like, you just ain't popping or, you know, you ain't grinding hard enough or you
just think you're better than you are.
Well when they just delete 250,000 followers without an email or a reason and you're to
pay Instagram's wiped, then you're like, well, maybe I'll hit somebody up when nobody
knows you existed.
I got a verified page, not to mention I'm spending 30,000 or 40,000 at that time a year
and ads on Facebook and Instagram.
You're spending not much on ads on Instagram.
So I put out a picture or a post.
So anytime I put a picture up, I throw $500 to $1,000 on that post just to get it going,
get kind of what people see it.
So not saying that's a lot of money at the end of the year, but imagine if you deleted
a couple hundred thousand people that were spending 40 grand a month with you.
I mean a year.
So I was spending, you know, getting my brand built doing that with the 4G Auto Blow.
And that's what I was doing like the flow parties and I was doing like, you know, the
crazy hairstyles and the shows is getting that attention.
So then they banned me from that, took my Facebook down from me.
Then a year to date, I'm 10, Instagram's already gone.
So it's like someone working on Instagram to seize me, build on my page.
Whenever it gets to about 10,000, wipe it.
Why do they wipe it?
They tell you?
No, they don't give me no emails or nothing.
I literally just paid someone $7,000 a day in London that I have no clue who they are.
I just went to the bank and sent someone $7,000 a day to try to get one of my Instagram's
back.
Really?
That's how bad I need my pages back because the end of the day, I'm independent.
I don't have a label.
I do this all myself.
So every follower that I get is a fan of supporter, someone that's helped support my dream, my
business.
Once you take that from me, people get tired of trying to find you.
And then not everybody's always on social media looking for you.
So once you're gone, you just, they try to get you gone.
So I've stayed relevant.
My numbers have gotten bigger without my social media.
So sometimes being banned helped a little bit because you might see my video come across
a timeline and say, well, you know what?
I'm going to share below this video now because I know he's deleted and help him out a little
bit.
And the problem is when you get deleted, we all know people in your own camps or do the
same lane you're in, they enjoy that.
So not everybody's like, oh, concrete got deleted.
Let's go share their page.
They're like, they're deleted.
It's time for us to do our thing.
Right.
They feel like your competition, a little bit of competition and everything.
So it's very, you know, only person really that shots me out.
My boy, Bryson Gray and my brother, Stoney, J 360, but I'm saying a lot of other people
when I get deleted, I'll even hit them up.
Like, y'all throw you some money to get me a post to let people know where I'm on my
new page.
And they'd be like, oh, I don't need any money or they'll be afraid to share you because
you got deleted.
So you're going to get me deleted, you know, it just becomes hard getting censored.
It's hard to build your brand.
It's hard to keep any business going.
I mean, imagine having a McDonald's and paint it black and blue and with no arch in the
front.
And then people know that's McDonald's, you know, or like, people say, like, why you
still got to run ads and commercials on social media if you're already famous and poppin?
Well, there's a McDonald's and Chick-fil-A ads every day on TV.
It's about keeping it in their face.
So the censorship really hurts.
What about Twitter and YouTube?
Have you ever had Twitter?
I mean, obviously you have YouTube, but what about Twitter?
I've never been big into Twitter.
I have a Twitter.
Does it get fucked with?
I don't even put on it, man.
This is the outlook of the, I like Instagram.
I like seeing the videos I like going through, but then Instagram made it so hard.
It's like, you can't see what likes people got anymore.
Well, they did that because, you know, people were just capping on all their stuff, buying
all these fake likes, buying all these fake followers, just a bunch of robots.
You know what I mean?
But Twitter, I've posted on there and it's just like, I just post like a status.
It's like, I don't really get to see much of anything.
I didn't like it like that.
True social is pretty big now.
I'm not sure if you guys are on there.
I met like 25,000 untrue social in two weeks.
My page, Trump and them made, they verified me, ASAP, so I was one of the early people
on there.
So that was cool.
You know, so pretty soon when that opens up to everybody, every Democrat and their mom
is going to be on there too, because they want to be where it's popping.
They want to see what's going on.
There's going to be a million troll Trump pages or troll 4G auto plays.
If you go on TikTok, I got like 250,000 followers on TikTok.
And if you type in my name, 4G auto blow, there's over 150 pages.
No way.
And I'm as buried in those pages.
You're buried under all the fake pages.
Yeah, because people just warned my posts.
So anytime I post something, it gets worn, worn, worn, worn, worn, account violation,
take down one more of account violation, you're deleted.
They don't have somebody physically sitting there saying, well, this isn't bad.
It just, you warn it enough, they'll take it down.
That's it.
It's over in China.
Yeah.
No, when 4G auto blow posts, let's all ban his shit and it's going to come right down.
Haha.
It's funny to them, but it's frustrating to me because I'm like, dang, I just got this
post on TikTok.
I think if you search my name, it's like 45 million views right on my page.
I had tons of videos in the millions.
So you get a million views and just people warning you to take it down.
It's not fair.
Yeah.
I feel that people, you know, you got rappers these days, like, you know, I make degenerate
music sometimes in my life, you know, about drugs, cars, money, lifestyle, female, whatever,
and never got banned.
Never got censored.
They didn't care.
I rap about, you know, voter integrity and a vaccine.
It's like, whoa, get it out of here, get it out of here.
But six, nine, I like six, nine, but he's like a genius to me on social media.
Right?
Really?
But he, I mean, he'll literally say, like, pull up here, I'm going to California.
I don't care.
What's up?
Like they get away with that on social media.
That's like almost telling, like baiting people to come kill you and everybody and their mom
is putting up gang signs and guns.
Social media, every woman in the world on their half is half naked, promoting their brand
like that's fine.
But if you just put up a American flag and a couple of the bros, it's like, whoa, my
God, you know, this is a cult.
This needs to come down.
They didn't care about fight comps, brought a fight comps.
Yeah.
They mean they're straight up porn on Twitter.
Yeah.
But like fight comps, they don't care about.
They just talk about Portland.
They're so worried about January, like Portland went on for three months.
They had a burnt Portland all the way to the ground.
They're not circling bag arresting anybody.
They're at the Capitol, which is our building, trying to lock up everybody and their mom
who was even posted about the Capitol.
Did you go to the January 6th riot?
Yeah.
You were there.
The riot was no riot.
I'm telling you.
Everybody there was happy.
I was not what the people try to put on TV, but I was booked.
So I was there.
I had a show there, me and Bryson Gray performing.
So like I wasn't in the Capitol, but I was there performing.
You were in DC.
Where'd you perform?
So right on the main street right outside the White House, there's a, I'll send you
the video.
You can attach it here.
Oh yeah.
I think I sent you the post.
Probably about 100,000 people of us out there.
Really?
Going crazy to our music.
We got a real fan base, man.
We pop out.
That's the biggest thing is being with the people.
It's a blessing that I have 10,000 fans that day that kept me taking pictures and just
wandering somewhere.
I feel like that day was like a field trip, like people go on a field trip.
They're a really good kid and they just get caught with all the bad kids.
Maybe do something stupid.
And they're like, oh, wow.
That's not really my character.
I mean, they let them go inside the building.
You know what I mean?
People went inside the building.
Ashley Babbitt, you know what I'm saying?
R.P.
Ashley Babbitt.
Her mom actually calls me all the time and tells me, hey, thank you so much for keeping
my daughter's name alive.
Who is she?
Ashley Babbitt.
She passed away.
She was a veteran that was there.
She got shot.
She's the girl who got shot.
Wow.
But the thing is, you don't hear her name.
You hear George Floyd's name.
I'm not saying you should hear his name, but he has charges and all types of problems that
he was in.
You know what I mean?
And the day is like, Ashley Babbitt was there supporting the country, supporting the president.
Wrong place, wrong time.
Boom.
You know what I mean?
It wasn't like she had a weapon on her and she was going inside of a building.
I just feel like...
Were she unarmed?
Mm-hmm.
I just feel like things are like, you know, blown to the proportion of how CNN is still
talking about that.
I mean, there was literally hospitals, dealerships, fire stations, gas stations, pharmacies, boutiques,
locals, people that might have been, you know, pro BLM's, their own businesses getting burnt
down.
I've seen people that own their own restaurants.
Like, they went through and just destroyed it.
You know what I mean?
And there's not an arrestee.
There's nobody getting in trouble for that.
They don't even talk about it.
Right.
They're like, they're allowed to do that.
When BLM comes out now, most of that money that was donated, how many black people got
paid?
How many black people became millionaires?
How many people did they bail out?
None.
That money went to white people and a few chosen black people that were involved in it and
made millions of dollars on that.
Yeah.
How many people...
What was it?
Like a group, a small group of people who made, like, millions of dollars?
Well, one time, if you went to BlackWiseMatter.com, you know, to the thing, they went to Sleepy
Joe's campaign.
Right.
Right, right, right.
They did.
They had to find a way.
Trump's got support.
We got to raise some money.
Millions of dollars on that, weren't there?
Millions.
They just came out.
She was paying, I don't know her name, but she paid like her ex-husband or something,
like two millions.
People was a couple million.
To be security.
Yeah.
But I mean, that's not really on the news.
It's talked about, but it's like, it's forgivable.
Imagine if Trump had that.
Just imagine if Trump said, you don't vote for me, you ain't black.
Just imagine if Trump had that on a T-shirt.
You know what I mean?
Didn't even say it.
Yeah.
You know?
Just imagine if Trump was at a KKK U of G's, like Joe Biden was.
Just imagine if Trump's kids had a laptop.
Yeah.
Just imagine.
You know what I mean?
And the funny thing is everybody that, like the vote for Trump to go against him and vote
Joe Biden was just like a Trump vote, like it was funny, like, you know, people get so
mad we had these songs.
I mean, Nipsey Hussle, RIP, I respect Nipsey to the fullest because I'm independent artist.
And like, I did the whole album for $100 each, like, I see the grind, I see the build up,
but him and YG's biggest song was Fuck Donald Trump.
But we can't make a pro Trump song and it's like, that's their biggest selling song.
YG is, I don't think it has a song bigger than Fuck Donald Trump.
When did he release that?
I think that probably came out, like, right before the election.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So, I mean, that's their biggest song, you know what I mean?
But that whole culture of people now, I go and like say cheese at different blog sites.
They're all like, damn, where's Trump at?
Biden ain't did a damn thing.
Yeah.
Trump's kind of like in a good light right now.
Great light.
So, when he comes back in 2024, it's going to be the biggest ride of his life because
he's already got his Republican support that he got, his day one loyal fan base that he
got.
Then everyone who really wasn't rocking with him is going to be like, you know, that's
going to be the new silent majority that they said we were.
There's going to be a lot of sign with people that are like, I'm rocking, I'm going to vote
Trump.
I'm not going to Joe Biden again, no way.
And Joe's the biggest puppet they got.
They can't put nobody else in there right now that's going to be bigger than Joe Biden
as a puppet.
I go get his gas price.
We spent $9, $10 on gas.
This gas is already bought.
This ain't, we didn't buy it last week.
We already had this gas.
Why are we buying this?
Why are we paying this much for gas?
We bought.
Why are we getting gas from Venezuela?
I think we as a homegrown most of the gas.
I thought we were getting it from Venezuela.
Well, if we are, it's not brand new gas.
You're not getting gas today they brought in last week.
We're not.
Nope.
This is pre-owned gas.
Huh.
This is still Trump's gas.
We have enough gas to make it.
Trump gas.
I'm just saying this is still Trump's gas.
We're not going next door right now and saying, yeah, we need gas.
We'll bring it in next week from other countries.
His gas has been here.
Well, Trump was one of the biggest people that was pushing against that whole pipeline
of all the EU countries getting gas from Russia and getting oil, you know, gas and oil from
Russia.
Well, Trump's biggest thing is to make money here.
Right.
Exactly.
Give us jobs.
Right.
Right now our biggest problem is not a lot of people want to work because Joe Biden
was just giving them money.
See, a lot of people will get tricked into the system.
They want to say, oh, I could get $300 and not work.
I'll just do that.
Instead of getting a job, bus and they ask and make it $1,800 or $1,500 or $600.
They trick you to want to stay in that little system.
One of my best friends, African-American mix of Spanish dude, he was always around me.
I had nice things and at one time, you know, he wasn't doing that good.
And I watched him work from like, you know, Wendy's and having a bunch of different jobs.
And he lived in a community where, you know, they couldn't make so much money as mom.
And he came to me and said, you know, I got to quit my other job because my mom told
me it's making too much money in the house and we're going to lose this housing.
I said, cool.
You need to move out of that housing and you'll get your own place, get you another job.
And now he owns his own house, works for UPS, he's a driver, got cars he wants.
But it just takes someone to say, you could do it, go do it.
You could get out there and do it.
Not everybody has that thing like me where I say I could do it myself and believe it.
That's a gift and a curse.
But I believe myself and I say, hey, you could do it.
Some people need someone to say, what, you know, you want to do a podcast?
I'm going to go buy you a microphone for $300.
See if you actually sit there and build a table and see if you even make a YouTube channel.
It's free.
Yeah.
See if you even make the channel.
Sometimes people want to do all this stuff, but they're so afraid to even make the channel
or do a podcast.
Well, a lot of people would say to you, it's easy for you to say you got a rich family.
They would say that to this day, I haven't got one rich sentence from no rich families.
You got no money from your grandparents?
Never got money.
Really?
Never got money from my family.
Ever.
I bought almost myself.
That's fucking crazy.
But at the end of the day, it's like if I tell somebody that, so I'm blue in the face,
they don't care.
They don't want to hear it.
Yeah.
So that's why I came out with the Silver Spoon.
They got it.
Because people want to hear what they want to hear.
Tell the story about that for people who don't know about it.
So the Auto Trader stuff?
Yeah.
My grandfather started Auto Trader on the car magazine.
I got to send to boarding school when I was in fifth grade.
By the way, they didn't mention that once in the Vice article, I don't think.
They said a little something in there about that I kind of like have my family, my grandfather
sold Auto Trader, made a lot of money.
But the difference is about that is anybody whose family who's watching this has real
money.
They only want nobody else being as rich as them or powerful as them.
It's just kind of like anything in the world.
So with me, I went my own route, did my own way, got my own tattoos, built my own brand.
Now, there's not to say one day when, you know, my mother's still alive and I wouldn't
want my mom to ever pass away from me to make any money, you know what I'm saying?
But my mom's goal is not to just give me her money.
Like my mom had to work hard in her life and she got money when my grandfather died.
She was left property.
So if somebody leaves you with a lot of property that hasn't been taken care of, well then
first of all, you got to pay the inheritance tax.
That's a fire sale on that property.
So your property might be worth 10 million, but then no, you can't afford to keep that
property.
So we'll give you 2.5 million, then you got to pay taxes and that's through the roof
right now.
So my biggest thing was I went to Admiral Farragut Academy, it was a military private school,
went there in fifth grade.
I lived in that school until I was a senior.
So I wasn't at home eating lollipops like everybody wants to say.
I was living in a military dorm boarding school.
Now the military wasn't the toughest aspect of it.
We just marched around a little rifle as it wasn't like we really did push-ups and
sit-ups and all this stuff all day.
But one thing Farragut did teach me is to be a people person.
I could talk to any kind of person.
You had kids from all over the world there, all different races.
It taught you that, like a melting pot of people.
I never held nothing against my parents sending me there.
It was cool.
Like I liked living with my friends anyways, but fifth grade is kind of young to leave
your family behind and not go see your family anymore.
I never really went home for holidays, you know what I'm saying?
I've always been kind of distant.
Now I have a good relationship with my mom when I'm older.
I think it's because I always wanted to do it the way I wanted to do it and not everybody's
going to see that.
Not everybody's going to see your vision.
Sometimes you got to make your own vision and people see it in the long run.
And I'm glad nobody gave me any money because I wouldn't be where I was today.
I would have got some money and blown it.
I don't do no drugs.
I don't drink.
I don't do none of this stuff.
I miss a businessman that works hard, everything that I do.
And if somebody would have gave me an easy ticket, I'd probably be the man I'm in right
now.
I wouldn't be.
I'd rather work for mine.
I bought it.
It feels good to have a Rolls Royce for a God of Herodans.
Feels good to have more than one Rolls Royce for a God of Herodans.
Feels good to have big Trump trucks.
Feels good to be able to-
You got multiple Rolls Royces.
Yes.
Feels good to get people, you know, my team pay for their music videos, help their stuff
come together.
It feels good to be able to work for different people and to say, hey, you know what, I'm
going to put some money into you and this is what you want to do.
I believe in you.
I got to do it to people.
Feels good to take care of, you know, parents coming to me all the time saying, hey, my
kid's a huge supporter of you and I'm glad that you don't curse right that in your music
anymore and I'm glad that you got a positive message from my children.
You know, I kid was getting bullied here at Seminole right here, middle school.
I picked him up in the Trump truck.
They were getting bullied because they liked Trump.
So I can't pick them up in the Trump truck.
All the kids saw the truck.
The middle schooler was getting bullied because he likes Trump.
Right here.
She was a female.
I went and picked them up.
This is a lot of stuff I do for people, you know, just little small things that I don't
need no flowers or no rewards for them or stuff I do because I want to do it.
Not a lot of people who did it for me when I was younger.
So my thing is now, if I see someone really wants to do something, okay, you want to rap,
you want to my homeboys, I'm not going to give you 20 bands to rap with, but I'll buy
you a thousand of your CDs and pay for your video and see how hard you want to work.
Let's see if you really want to do what I'm doing.
You know what I mean?
I understand this is more marketing advertisement than this being a great artist.
You got to have a brand.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, you're definitely a good marketer.
That's one thing for sure.
I did crazy things with the marketing.
You know, I was hanging billboards up, you know, I mean, merchandise, this is the way
I just do my things different.
So if I hang a billboard up that cost me $8,000, people would say, oh, wow, so I spent $8,000
on a billboard.
Well, the next billboard I might cut in half and charge five companies $5,000 each.
That's $25,000.
I made $17,000 on my second billboard, then I keep throwing billboards up.
If I make a merchandise t-shirt like they used to do in the back of the day and put
all the sponsors on the back of it, $752,000.
I print a shirt up.
I said, think about how I'm going to make this shirt, maybe $10,000 in sales.
I just sold $10,000 in advertisement on that shirt before it even hits streets.
Yeah, you got crazy merch too.
You know, just like a little merch.
Yeah, merch goes good.
And I'm saying just like with my music.
So if I sell my CDs for $10, I won't sign autograph for less than another $10.
I sell my album for $20 on my album.
So for $20 on my fans support me, they buy the album.
I double my income and my net worth writing my name.
How did you connect with Rick Ross?
Rick Ross.
I've always been a fan of Rick Ross.
How did you, like, initially get all of that?
So Rick Ross has always been my idol.
And the biggest thing is when I finally got to meet Ross and do the song, like the worst
thing I've realized in this music industry or any industry is like meeting your idols
with their capes off.
That's why when I met Trump, I was like, please be who I think you are because I mean, I'm
going to war for you out here.
So when I met Rick Ross, you know, for the years I was making these songs, you know,
like they really compared me to white Rick Ross.
I made a song called Rick Ross and people are like, oh, you're cloud chasing, bro.
You've been on Ross for like four or five years and go rock with you.
And I just kept getting on Instagram and I used to inbox it to everybody and say, yo,
tag rich forever, tag rich forever, tag rich forever.
They might not like it or see it, but if 500 people tag you, no matter how famous you are,
you're going to see it.
So I just kept doing that for years and years and years.
And I started doing some features with people close to him, my young breed and artists that
he had that were like his own boys around him.
Take them over here to Florida, put them on the yacht, shoot a dope video, give them a
real great look, almost better than the look they were getting with the labels.
So I would get his attention through that.
Then Ross started doing the checkers and the wing stops.
So I started pulling up to like driving to Miami Ross will be on Snapchat and say, yo,
tomorrow I'm opening up this checkers here.
Boom, boom, boom.
Here's the address.
Pull up.
I don't think that's saying pull up and get a record deal, pull it.
They want to pull up when it's benefit for them, not for him.
So I knew I'm going to support you.
So I just kept going to those and then we've ended up started chopping it up.
Then I said, I got a song called vanilla sprite with vanilla ice.
I'd like to get you on it.
So he gave me his people's number.
I sat on the song.
I was, you know, one time people were saying, like, you know, we're going to do a deal.
We're going to sign.
And then I got everything done before that.
So I was like, I'm going to stay independent.
So I put the song out.
I'm like vanilla ice at one time.
People don't understand how I met vanilla ice like vanilla ice.
I've waited at airports for him to get off airplanes.
That's how I met vanilla ice.
You waited at the airport.
How'd you know he was laying on the, how did he know he was on his way there?
RIP, my boy guy, but my boy guy used to do some like TMZ type thing where in the autographs.
So like what he would do, he was there the day we all met.
He died recently.
He really, yeah.
Yeah.
He was in the first video out there with us and back of the car, remember with all
the tattoos on his back, big guy.
He would meet everybody that was saying this who rode with us, rode with us there.
He's passed away.
He died like six months ago.
Crazy.
That sucks.
So one of my great friends, but he would do getting autographs.
So like companies would pay for his autographs.
So he would get out there.
They would say, okay, hey, this person's going here and go there this week and try to get
what you can get.
And they cash it out.
So he got real good with all the people.
So he was always give vanilla ice is autographs and he'd be like vanilla ice usually does
a show on Saturday night, Friday night, but no ice is crazy popular.
You know what I'm saying?
People, if they don't realize it, they need to like ice ice babies and number one rap
selling song in the world ever.
You know what I mean?
He's constantly doing shows nonstop.
So my boy was like, yo, we go to West Palm airport.
Vanilla ice flies in every Sunday and I started to be like, yeah, he's like, bro, every Sunday.
So I went there one Sunday saw him say, what's up when they're the next Sunday and was like,
yo, vanilla ice came to me and said, look, man.
I respect your grind.
Here's the list of all my dates on my tour.
Anyone you at, you go before me.
I never did this before, but anyone you show up to, I'm going to let you rock the stage
with me.
Like y'all went with me to the show and we got there.
Even in that first video, I was still figuring out, okay, cameras on cameras off.
All right.
We talked to him because it wasn't the relationship wasn't fully built then.
It was just nobody gave me an opportunity like this.
I'm going to give it to you because you earned it.
That was before the whole like Trump thing took off.
That was before you started like the Trump rebrand.
Yeah.
Well, Silver Spoon was out.
Silver Spoon was out.
Yeah.
So Silver Spoon was out.
That's true.
It was out.
But vanilla ice and me have great music together.
Still, we did a ride to horse since then.
Eight million views.
We did a song called rodeo.
Me, him is the song of Kodak Black.
He's not political rapper by what some means.
You know what I'm saying?
I respect Kodak.
No, vanilla ice.
Kodak rocks Magga by Christ.
Oh, yeah.
But I respect the difference between the left and the right.
To me, it's like you could not like Trump
and I could still be your friend.
I lost tons of friends.
People didn't like me anymore because I like Trump or this
and that.
Just because you don't like Trump, I mean, we can't be friends.
I can still help you.
I can still see your grandma crossing the street
helping her across the street because you don't like Trump.
That's not a problem to me.
I can still lend you a couple $100 or pick you up.
You need a ride somewhere.
Right.
But what was to me, people just get the animosity
and that hate with me.
It's got to easy.
Oh, I don't have to work for nothing.
Like, man, I'm busting my ass for what I got.
I earned every accolade I got because, you know what?
When they think you had it easy, they
don't want to give you the trophy.
They don't want to.
You got to take it.
Right.
So I got to do double the work.
I got to outwork everybody.
And then I went to left field and built my own genre.
I said, OK, cool.
I've always liked to go against the grain, right?
Because there's no traffic.
When you go the wrong way, there's no traffic.
It's going to be bumpy a little bit, but ain't nobody.
You know what I mean?
Everybody's going the other way.
So I'm like, OK, cool.
I'm going to go way over here and do my own thing.
Then I see everybody copping me and do what they do.
It's cool.
I don't got to get the credits, but I know what I done did.
I know the time I put in the chances I take.
I just believe if you put effort into anything,
you'll be able to get it, so to round it up.
So to round it up, so the vanilla ice thing was cool.
Vanilla ice is a super cool dude, super humble.
Vanilla ice did more for me probably besides myself
than anybody in my rap career.
This gave me opportunities.
Never said, like, here's a bag of money.
You know what I mean?
Or, like, do this.
But the opportunity he's gave me is priceless.
And anybody who I've worked with has just always
gave me opportunity.
People are afraid of opportunity.
They want the money now.
Let me get that opportunity and watch how much money I make
with the opportunity.
Yeah.
Does Kodak do a lot of, like, MAGA raps?
Does he make a lot of songs about Trump?
No, I don't think.
I think he would of, like, he saw the lane that was popping.
But Kodak Black's already Kodak Black and he's popping.
But, like, every single day, he's magging on the internet.
Do you think if you were, like, Kodak Black's level,
if you were as famous as he was or as popular as he is right now,
you would still be rocking Trump that hard?
All day.
Really?
All day I'm rapping Trump.
When Trump was lost, there was, like, what y'all going to do?
What y'all going to do?
It's a rap.
My career, I got more plays, more, I'm bigger.
Because it seems like a smart move.
Like, it seems like what you did was a smart move.
Like, you basically, like, one of the most hardcore groups
of people in the country right now
are, like, the hardcore Trump supporters.
So if you're one of the only rappers or the only musicians
who are, like, representing that group of people,
you're going to automatically gain this massive audience.
So it seems like a genius market.
A little bit, because when I did it,
those people didn't have the balls they have right now either.
I was out here by myself with a few types of people
around the world doing it.
That crowd wasn't there yet.
Once people are starting to see what, OK, he's doing it,
I'm going to do it, too.
Or, you know what, he's going to say his opinion,
I'm going to say my opinion, too.
It takes one person to jump straight out.
You know what I mean?
So when I jump straight out, then other people start being,
like, you know what, I get 10 DMs, like, oh, you saw,
if you pussy, dah, dah, dah, dah, then the third DM,
Abre, I respect what you're doing.
You know, my job would never let me do something like this.
Or, you know, my family or my wife thinks different.
And then sooner or later, they're, like, that same person
a year later is, like, man, I'm putting a Trump flag on my car.
Nobody says, you know?
You got to open the door a little bit of people to get in.
Trump is so busy doing Trump, he doesn't have time
to do this for the local person.
That's what I'm trying to say.
People are coming to my videos and stuff.
These are local people.
These are everyday Trumpers.
Why do you think these people are so, so bought into Trump?
Why do people love Trump so much, do you think?
Because it feels like he's the most loved and the most hated.
Definitely most loved, most hated.
I feel like people love Trump because they feel deep down
that he's super brutally honest.
He has nothing to gain from somebody.
So he'd just tell you exactly how he's a straight shooter.
That's why I was so worried when I went to meet Trump.
How that, how that thing was going to go.
Vee, he might have, like, roasted you or something.
I mean, like, we the fucks this tattooed up crazy looking
motherfucker. Yeah, like, you just didn't know
what it was going to be because I done put in a lot of work.
I done took a lot of risks.
I done spent a lot of money.
Even though I'm out of mason money,
I spent a lot of money.
Like, I probably spent, my truck alone's 100 bands for Trump.
You know what I mean?
I probably spent a quarter million dollars on Trump.
These videos, Trump ain't paying for them.
He's not paying for the studio time.
He's not paying for, you know, me to get out here
and push my hats and push my stuff.
He's not paying for that.
So when I went to meet Trump for the first time,
actually, like, he done tweeted some stuff
and showed some love through the campaign.
Like, Trump just sent me a personalized letter
a couple of months ago thanking me again
for everything I did for him, which is crazy.
And my boy, Stoney, who's here right now with me,
when I went to meet Trump, he was with me.
And it was Stoney's birthday.
And I remember, like, Secret Service,
they're real big on, like, you know,
they think they were on the show.
Oh, yeah.
Like, they're in charge.
So I had this little photo book, you know what I'm saying?
Like, everything that I did for Trump, you know,
the trucks, the billboards, all the, you know,
the tattoo on my leg, you know what I'm saying?
All a bunch of stuff in there.
And they were like, you can't bring that in there
when you talk to Trump.
I'm like, why?
They're like, can't bring, can't,
can't even give them your pen to sign something
because you could poison the pen.
You know, they're very serious around Trump.
I mean, you know, President of the United States at the time.
Yeah.
What was the event you met him at?
So it was at a Sarasota rally.
And I helped him with a lot.
They had put my truck inside.
So even like right now, when Trump has a rally,
I call it our campaign managers,
and they say, blow, okay, cool.
I got my seat in the front.
I got my truck in there the night before.
Like, Trump shows a lot of love to me.
He doesn't have to do that, but it's like,
let's the people know that I rock with blow.
I know he had a, he had a,
some sort of a fundraiser in Bel Air,
like when he was, when he was still president.
And I remember he, he was going to land his helicopter
on the golf course, but they wouldn't let him.
Cause they were afraid somebody was going to like,
shoot a rocket launcher at it or something.
So he actually had to drive his,
they actually had to drive him all the way
from fucking Tampa to the, to the golf course.
And it was at the Pelican.
And I know a guy who was a member of that
and he went to it and he said it was like,
he was charging something crazy,
like 50 grand for a handshake.
Well, who, if you forget to get it,
if you could get it, get it.
All these people were there paying for it though.
If you could get it, get it.
So quickly I was saying, so when I went in to meet Trump,
as soon as I got in, bam, he knew what time it was.
You see, appreciate all the work he did for me.
You know what I mean?
I said, I got a little book.
I want you to sign some stuff, show you some stuff.
And the people said, we already said he couldn't do that.
And Trump looked at him and goes, where's the book at?
So Stoney, he was over here in the cut.
He was outside with the book waiting on me, right?
And he, he came in and he's a mega rapper.
And he wasn't like, you know, it's my brother.
He wasn't hating on me.
Like he wants to meet Trump and I wasn't hating either.
So when he came in, Trump saw him and said,
I like that merchandise.
I like that shirt.
Where'd you get that shirt from?
It said Trump and it had the goat on it.
And he goes, that's blows merch.
So Trump said, get up here and take a picture
with me ASAP in that shirt.
Cause I love that shirt.
And they said, y'all get below Forgiotto's information.
They call it Forgiotto.
Get Forgiotto's information.
And I need you to send me these shirts.
So the next day I, over to bed minister,
I send him some CDs, medallions, teach all my stuff.
I sent him a big merch pack.
I said, president Trump,
I'm gonna send him everything I got.
You know what I'm saying?
I put some crazy stuff together.
I sent him my 20 hats and all my merchandise.
And then like two weeks later,
I got a personalized letter back from him.
You know what I mean?
So if somebody's rocking with you,
it's like, thanks for the merch.
Keep it moving.
They're not going to say, you know,
send that kid a letter.
The end of the day, Trump sees like,
if you're a Republican and you out here doing your thing
and you're a Trump supporter, that's amazing.
But most of the people at that time were voting for Trump.
We're already voting for Trump.
The stuff they're sharing is going
to Trump supporters already.
Here's somebody like me, Bryson Gray,
J360, Stoney Dubro, our followers are not voting for Trump.
And we're red pillion people with our music.
I'm red pillion people with my events.
What do you mean by that?
Making them Trump supporter, red pill,
get them on the red side.
Converting them to Trump?
Yeah, Republican, converting them.
I mean, a lot of people, it's not like-
But it's not really Republican.
No, because I say that.
So like, well, a lot of people term Republican
that like Trump, but on our wrap,
we only have somebody to talk about.
So we take shots of Democrats and this and that,
but Democrats for Trump helped Trump in 2016
win the election.
You know what I mean?
If Trump wins in 2024, which he's going to win,
Democrats are going to have a big part of it
because the Democrats that voted for Joe Biden,
they're not all going to switch over to Republican.
They're just going to vote Republican.
You know what I mean?
That's what they're going to do.
So 2016 had a lot to do with the Republican party.
I mean, the Democratic party helping Trump win.
But I'm just saying, so we do events.
When people come out to our events,
they're like, wow, this is cool.
I mean, my camera crew, they're African American,
you know what I'm saying?
They come out to the events and they're like,
at first they're looking like, okay,
like, you know, this is starting to get crazy.
You know, I'm doing rallies.
My first rallies were like 200 people.
Next thing you know, I'm throwing one of Miami,
20,000 people are there.
So my team, everybody's like, you know what I mean?
This is getting crazy.
And then they would come out there
and people would say like,
hey, what's up?
They would say their name to them.
They'd be like, how do you remember my name?
I met you last week with Blow.
Like they realized that people genuinely cared about them.
You know, when it was like a really good vibe
and they're all like, you know what I mean?
They made them realize, man,
ain't nobody ever gave me a hug
and say they love me in 20 years.
You know, that's crazy.
I love this, I love this.
I love being around this.
I love seeing this.
So sometimes you just gotta get out there
and be around firsthand and see like, you know, the energy.
Like if I brought my Trump truck to a BLM rally,
I guarantee as soon as I pull in, it's going down.
It's going down, right?
Which is cool, but it's going down.
So we're in DC.
There's no more BLM rallies, are there?
I don't think so.
But when we're in DC, people like me and Bryson Gray,
we're making this music for everybody.
Everybody's love it.
And Tifa got us on their hit list, publicized hit lists.
Like you see four job or Bryson Gray, you take them out.
And we still in DC popping out.
We ain't got no imagine if I had a hit list of people
when I'm riding around with my hit list.
Like I'm going to jail.
So it's like we go through a lot.
Not to mention they say, oh, you're grifting.
This is a grip, right?
You guys are just making money off that red hat and the 2016.
Nobody was doing it.
This is the place I could get a cosign from you
that wasn't a grip.
That's the only person doing it.
There was not making no money.
I wasn't getting no money.
It wasn't getting bookshows off it.
And if Trump would have lost, they say he did.
Why don't we stop?
If it's just about a grip.
Do you think you'll ever run for office?
Mayor, definitely when I'm 40.
You run for mayor?
What about governor?
Maybe that'd be in my 50s.
My biggest thing is like if I put my mind to it,
I'm going to do it.
Like right now I work with some campaigns.
Christine Quinn, she's running for US Congress
here in the 13 district.
I'm back in her.
Christine Quinn.
Christine Quinn.
Christine Quinn, I've known for her.
She's Republican.
If you're going out here,
make sure you vote for Christine Quinn, district 13.
My thing is, you know, I can't be, you know,
when I'm 40, that's like when I'm done
with like the regular rap music and everything.
I'm not going to be pushing my rap CDs when I'm 40.
It's a great time for me when Trump will win 2024.
That would give me about my time on 40.
How old are you now?
37.
37, okay.
So I got three years, you know what I'm saying?
Which not putting an end to my music,
but it's like I've lived every single day.
The first 10 years of my rap career,
rapping like every day, studio, how am I going to make it?
Then 2016 on, it was like, how am I going to help Trump?
Like I don't have fun.
I don't do family events.
I don't go out and spend time.
Like my life has been consistent in rap music
and trying to blow.
So how am I going to make it?
When am I going to make it?
You enjoy the politics more than you enjoy the music?
Yeah.
Well, I enjoy the people more than I enjoy the music.
So like I like getting into like, you know,
no vaccine, this and that.
I like to see like I go to a place
and there's 500 people out there with me saying,
yeah, would you blow?
Like I like the family side of it.
Like MAGA's family to me.
It's been a lot of people who hit me up.
And you know, I might sell my merchandise.
I might pull up with my merchandise one day
and say, look, here's a hundred free hats, let's go.
You know what I mean?
It's just how I feel that day, what I'm doing.
What do you think makes those people the way they,
like what, what is it about the MAGA people?
I think being, I think being, I'll cut you all,
but I think it's being involved with something
that they're accepted in.
I feel like these people that are here,
they're tired of the bullshit.
Yeah, but it's like, it's a family vibe.
I feel like some of these people are just like lost souls
are left to do whatever sometimes.
Cause it's not just like rich, wealthy people
at these events.
There's people that literally go to a Trump rally
a week before and sleep outside,
front row Joe's for a five day straight to get in.
Then someone I forge out a blow walks up,
call somebody in my seeds right in front of their seat.
Like, you know what I'm saying?
These guys are out here sleeping.
Like, I respect that.
When these rallies go on and most of these events
like CPAC and all these places,
all your rappers are inside flaking it up.
I'm across the street with the Patriots outside
with my Trump truck waving flags
and out there doing my thing, holding the people down
because that's who I'm with.
I'm with the people.
The people made me, the people shared my music.
People bought my music, the politicians did it.
These people helped me.
These people believed in me, these people didn't judge me.
So you would say like your goal is to convert
as many people as possible in America
to the like MAGA ideology or way of thinking?
In some ways, in some ways, yeah.
I mean, that's not my everyday goal.
My goal is just like, my goal is just to do me.
Like, you know, nobody tells me what to do.
I do what I want to do.
Trump doesn't give me like a checklist
of things I need to go do.
Rhonda Sanchez, I got a huge trailer with Rhonda Sanchez.
I just saw him at Frenchies and Kerrwater Beach.
Did you really?
Yeah, like, you know, I got pictures.
Well, a week ago, he was doing an event.
I pulled up on my Trump truck on my trailer.
Like, these dudes show me love, you know what I'm saying?
It's not like they're like, yo, blow what's up?
Let's hit the cookout.
But they're like, blow, I love the trailer.
I love what you're doing.
Thank you.
He's gangster because he's like,
it seems like he does what he wants to do.
He doesn't like really like,
he's not like a fucking Rick Scott.
Like, you know what I mean?
Fucking.
Well, a big thing is too, has got to look.
So like, I got tons of love for the Sanchez.
I hope the Sanchez will be a great president one day.
You know, he needs to wait.
The Trump gets four more years
than we get eight years of the Sanchez.
A lot of people like them on the same ticket,
but they're both Florida residents
so they can't run together.
A lot of people don't know that, can't run, but.
You think Trump would be a better president than the Sanchez?
Yeah.
But I think the Sanchez, cause Trump's Trump,
the Sanchez is still becoming who he is.
Like, you got to, that's how I was trying to save him in the go.
The Sanchez COVID made him famous.
Yeah, but the Sanchez is a veteran.
Trump's a, he dodged the draft.
Man, Trump's a hustler.
He's a draft dodger.
Nobody like, were you there with, were you,
but I'm saying were you there
when he actually did the drafting and dodged it?
No.
So like, I'm a spoiled rich kid from St. Pete,
but I'm really not.
But people are going to say what they want to say.
Trump was self made.
He got millions of dollars from his family.
Well, let me give you a million dollars.
See what you do with it.
Right.
Let me see how much you come back with.
Yeah, he definitely, no, I watch this.
Have you seen it?
Have you seen his documentary on Netflix?
Even though they kind of shit on him,
they kind of like, at the end they.
They're always going to shit on all of us.
It's still, what he fucking did was amazing.
So my thing is with the Sanchez,
he got famous during COVID.
He was a great governor,
but standing up for COVID, you know what I mean?
Made him real big.
Well, who was behind him had his back the whole way, Trump.
Trump kind of shit on him towards the end.
So if Joe Biden, if Joe Biden was in there right now,
and with the way he feels about it,
I don't see the governor going a super hard.
Now the Sanchez has really turned it on
because he knows that he became who he became.
I'm not taking nothing from the Sanchez.
I love the Sanchez.
But I'm trying to say,
is Trump had a lot to do with that help
of the Sanchez becoming the Sanchez?
Sure, sure.
I think the Sanchez might be,
after Trump, maybe the greatest president
that we're going to have coming up.
But you got to give Trump his four more years.
You know what I mean?
Trump got, he really got stripped of these four, right?
So you need to let Trump get in there.
And I feel like the Sanchez,
I don't want to lose him in Florida.
I don't want to Sanchez go nowhere.
This is why they're all moving here.
They know Florida strong.
All these people are like,
oh, they're moving to Florida because Florida's great.
They're moving to Florida to pull off the big scam again.
I think the one thing Trump has
that the Sanchez doesn't have,
the Sanchez has got the looks.
He's got everything, he's got the look,
he's got the persona, he's got the confidence,
he's got, I think he's got everything it takes
to be a good president.
I mean, he's like,
if you think of who you want to represent the country, right?
First of all, you think,
as far as just being articulate
and caring yourself well,
you think Obama, that's the guy that you were originally,
I'm saying put away all of everything.
Obama did a lot of fucked up shit.
Tons of fucked up shit.
Trump did more for the African-Americans than Obama did.
He was a super good speaker, carried himself well.
As Joe Biden would say,
he's the cleanest black man ever, right?
That's about as racist as it gets.
Did he really say that?
Yeah.
But then DeSantis is kind of similar to that.
DeSantis is a fucking great talker.
He's young, but Trump's got the thing,
the thing I think Trump has is he's-
Trump's a maverick, bro.
He's super smart,
and I think he's really good at dealing with people.
And he got the ace.
He's really good.
Trump's everything, you know what I'm saying?
No one's ever dealt with more people.
Like no one, like first president
to ever meet Kim Jong-un.
That was crazy.
Now, a president, that's why I rocked with Trump.
My boy went all the way over there.
Someone just could have got banged, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
Could have went over there and just like, boom, like,
you're dumb, you got all this blame?
That was gangster, that was gangster.
But what I say is like,
DeSantis, we can't use all of our eggs one time.
But don't you think-
He's our next card.
What I'm getting at is like,
don't you think that the polar,
like how do you bridge the gap with the polarization?
Like he fucking, he polarizes people more than anybody.
Well, one thing I will say,
but you say a bridge in the gap,
Trump, that gap's back,
because the media tears you apart like Trump.
So the media has made this huge gap in the Trump, okay?
And it's closing because they're seeing
nothing's doing yet.
Now DeSantis, he's did a really good job.
I would say like here,
you got whites and blacks like DeSantis.
Democrats and Republicans like DeSantis.
You know what I mean?
A lot of people don't really know too much.
I remember the first time I met DeSantis,
I was still on my way, where's Trump?
He walked, I wasn't taking a picture of them all.
And I was just like, you know, where's Trump?
You know what I'm saying?
But then I really looked back and I was like,
damn, that's DeSantis, I messed up.
Cause like, I don't mean, cause I was just coming in the game.
I was just learning.
This was maybe like, you know, two and a half years ago.
I was just more focused on MAGA and Trump.
It was bigger, you know, and then I realized like, okay,
well DeSantis is a big part and he's doing a lot
of good things, putting on for our home here in Florida.
And I liked that he stood up towards a lot of things.
So I just went and did some big stuff for DeSantis.
I made a song called, Hey Disney.
I sampled Pink Floyd, they sued me, the Pettos.
Did they really?
Yeah, they gave me a copyright and everything
within a week, which is crazy because-
Did they give you season assist first?
They sued you.
No, they straight sued me.
Damn.
Roger Walters or Water, whatever it is.
So I put on TikTok and started doing millions of views
and everybody kept tagging them on the left.
So like I went to Disney, right?
Cause I was supporting Trump on the don't say gay act, right?
So like my biggest thing is, I ain't a gay hater.
You know what I mean?
If you're gonna be gay, you could just be gay.
You don't need to like have a big sign that says I'm gay
and I need to give you extra attention.
If you're white, you don't need a big sign
that says I'm white privileged or black.
I'm black, I need privileges.
You know what I mean?
We're all equal.
All lives matter to me.
So when I went there, it's disgusting to me.
Like right now, if I got out of here,
school bus gets out, right?
And us three walk up to seven and eight year olds
and say, y'all masturbate today?
What's gonna happen?
I'm gonna get some shit.
Yeah.
They're allowed to do that in school.
These teachers in first, second and third grade
wanna be able to have transvestites come in,
cross dressers come in and perform and talk to the kids.
They wanna add this stories like this
to the school books and curriculum.
Let a parent discuss to their children what that is.
That's a parent's job to do.
And it might not be in first, second and third grade.
If they masturbated?
Yeah, that's a new thing.
They got a new thing coming out
where they're gonna ask students
to masturbate three to five times a week.
What?
Because it's gonna help the stress level.
You gotta find this.
The stress levels.
They got all types of stuff going on.
Where did you see this?
It's on the news.
On TV, you can read about it.
It's everywhere.
You gotta find this shit often.
I gotta see this.
Their biggest thing is, you know,
they're sex ed, they're starting real young
and they're trying to tell kids that it's okay.
But the difference is that me and you
were two boys sitting at home
in first, second and third grade
and Aladdin comes on and the boys are making out.
If the what comes on?
Aladdin comes on and two boys are making out.
Well, two boys in first, second and third grade
just might kiss because they think,
well, that's all on the TV.
So I guess that's what's supposed to go on.
That's not supposed to go on.
That teacher, whoever it is in the movie
has no right to teach the children that.
They have no right.
The parent has the right at the end of the day.
And if the parent doesn't do their job
and that's on the parent with their kids
or at least let them get to high school.
Like first, second, grade should be talking about
what's trans and what's gay.
So I went out there, we did the big pedal world.
I did a huge video at SeaWorld outside of Disney there.
I had about...
Times Union.
I had about 500 people show about there
and it was crazy.
And within a week, Pink Floyd stripped my video.
The request inquires about any requirements
for health and physical education instructors
to define very specific sex acts,
including masturbation, vaginal sex, oral sex,
and anal sex.
What is that?
I don't know what the fuck this is in reference to.
The parents union?
There's a parents union.
Well, so pretty much what it is.
Okay, mystery group seeks all the sex education details
from local scoops and anti-LGBTQ law.
So what they call it anti-LGBTQ.
The sans says what he did is he passed his law saying that,
he's not banning gays, but he's banning,
to say, talking about being gay in first,
second, third grade.
Another wrong with that.
And the left's fighting back on him saying that's wrong.
That these kids, I've seen videos that like,
Instagram of a woman having a newborn baby, male,
and saying, this is my son and he's gonna be gay
and he's gonna be great.
And then she stops and goes, you got a problem with that?
And I'm looking like, yeah, I'm thinking of my son,
I got a big problem with that, but the way she was doing it,
she says, well, you guys hold your little daughter
and say, oh, she's beautiful.
Have to lock her up when she's 16
because she's gonna break somebody's heart.
Or this kid's gonna be a cutie.
He's gonna have all the girls.
So what's wrong with me with my baby already saying
that he's gonna be gay?
There's a lot wrong with that.
Putting that onto a child like that, in my opinion.
So I just came out with that and Pink Floyd sued me.
And which is crazy is the beat was sampled
and they had all rights to take the video down.
So then I redid a whole new beat, put the audio to it
and they still copyright me, which is crazy.
Is this on YouTube?
Yeah, I own the song.
You don't make the words, you know what I'm saying?
My words, my new beat.
But that's a problem of being independent.
I've got a number that's like, yeah,
I'll talk to YouTube, please.
Right now, I can't even get ahold of YouTube.
Even though I got my 100K subscriber plaque,
it took years to get that from them people.
They don't want me to have none of that stuff.
Yeah, but at least YouTube hasn't banned you.
Nope, but they demonetized a lot of stuff.
So they say like, oh, you're making so much money
on this topic, the video's out.
I'm not making no money because they demonetized it.
Right.
So yeah, I'm rapping about no vaccines for money,
but they can't make money on it because it's demonetized.
What is this, Austin?
What's the title of this article?
And also, where did the don't say gay even come from?
I don't even think that, does the bill
even actually say the word, is there?
Yeah, DeSantis has it in there.
Yeah, he has it in there?
Yeah, the teachers can't talk about that type of stuff.
Oh, okay.
But they were outraged.
And then they have the, so like, we were at Disney.
I'm not sure if you really paid attention,
but there's a lot of stuff in these movies that's crazy.
Like, I asked them stuff, I could probably take a picture
and show you, like, I got a picture, screenshot,
a toy story, and while the characters are looking up,
the shadow is like somebody getting a blow job.
You know what I'm saying?
But then again, say us three were creators of movies
and drew stuff, we could be sitting around like,
watch, we'll put this in here, no one's ever gonna see this.
I'm gonna put a dick in this thing.
But that's what they did.
So I'm not really putting it 1,000% on Disney,
but it's out, and it's to the kids, right?
And then you hear the stories of what goes on,
what a mermaid was taken down because it had dicks
on the thing.
I got a Mickey Mouse gift card that somebody showed me
that the bottom of like Mickey Mouse's dress
is just a dick and two balls.
There's no legs on it, just like two balls, a dick,
and then her.
But this does facts.
Yeah.
Why are they fact-checked in that?
So I stand with the Santas on that,
and I mean, 1,000% everything the Santas does.
Another thing about Trump is he was so good for business
for like the media.
Like the media made so much money on him.
Even like small YouTubers who did political commentary,
like I know a couple people who are like left-wing
YouTube commentators on politics.
All I do is talk politics.
And they were getting way more views,
way more subscribers when they were basically just
They weren't getting banned though.
Watching every time Trump went live from the White House
and talked, they'd just fucking pipe in the livestream
into their livestream and have themselves in the corner
just like every time Trump would say something,
they would just make a comment on it or talk about it.
Yeah, go to bed, but it was just Trump gave people
an opportunity to definitely make money,
but are those people that they ever get demonetized
or de-platformed?
They were pro or not Trump, I'm just saying they did.
Well, on Twitter, not on YouTube.
The deep, you know, that sucks, they're demonetizing.
So the copyright I got from Pink Floyd
was my first strike on my account.
So I mean, that was the first one that I got.
And it did what it was, didn't it?
I mean, that's where Vice is with me.
It got me to Vice write up, it made the Vice interview.
Vice is coming back doing a video documentary on me
for the YouTube channel like the week and a half.
Oh, that's cool.
You all can pull up with the cameras,
you wanna do some behind the scenes or whatever.
Hell yeah, yeah, hell yeah.
But my biggest thing is like, not everyone's,
just cause someone is like,
I can't do a podcast or I can't agree with them
or I can't go out to lunch with them.
That's what people get so big into.
And that's what Trump did.
But it's not the same on the other end though.
Like if there's somebody who, just because,
you can say you can go hang out with anyone
who's not a Trump supporter,
someone who's not a Trump supporter.
They can't.
They won't go out and hang out
with someone hardcore or a Moga person.
I got the freaking Trump truck
and I mean, people lose their minds, lose their minds,
like, you know what I mean?
Like disgusted, lose their minds.
Austin, pull up that truck.
Can you pull up the picture?
Where can we find a good picture?
I mean, just Google.
Just type it, yeah.
Forge out a blue truck.
Forge out a blue truck.
Trump truck.
I got me and Roger Stone on there
from Patriot Sweet video.
Oh my God, that fucking video is absolutely bananas.
You got fucking Roger Stone.
You go down to the right, right there.
Go back, one more over.
He's got Roger Stone Crip walking in front of his truck.
To the left, to the left, one more.
To the left, right there.
I got me and Roger Stone with my dog right there.
