Hello, world. Our guest today is Mike Rinder. Mike is a former senior executive of the Church
of Scientology and also a former member of the CSEA organization. From 1982 to 2007,
Mike served on the board of directors of the Church of Scientology and held the post of
executive director of its Office of Special Affairs, overseeing the corporate, legal and
public relations matters of Scientology at the international level. He left Scientology in
2007 and from 2016 until 2019, he co-hosted the A&E documentary series with Leah Remini
called Scientology and the Aftermath. In this podcast, we talk about how he sailed through
the Mediterranean with L. Ron Hubbard, what it was like working for David Miss Scavige,
and why he finally decided to leave the Church. Please enjoy this conversation with Mike Rinder.
Mike Rinder, thank you for doing this. I appreciate you coming in and doing this podcast.
You're very welcome. You're from the area, Clearwater, right?
Well, I'm originally from Australia. I'm originally Australian, but I live here in
Palm Harbor now, which is just for people not in this area, it's just north of Clearwater.
Okay.
And when I first came to the United States in 1975, when Scientology first moved into
Clearwater, obviously, I lived here. Okay.
And then I spent a lot of time in Los Angeles, but...
Okay. So you were, just for people out there who may not know your story, you were one of
the top senior executives at the Church of Scientology, number two to David Miss Scavige,
I believe, and you were pretty high up there, right, really close to him for a long time.
And why don't you just go ahead and give us like a brief background of how you got started
in all this?
Well, I got started through my parents. I was introduced to Scientology when I was
six years old by my parents in Australia, and I was really raised as a Scientologist.
And when I graduated high school, I joined the C organization, which is Scientology's
in a core of most dedicated elite members. It's sort of like the Vatican, I guess, or, you know,
some very, very hard core, you sign a billion-year contract and dedicate yourself to achieving
the aims of Scientology. And I went initially to join Elrond Hubbard, the founder of Scientology,
on his boat in the Mediterranean, which was called the Apollo. And Hubbard had left England
and was being pursued by various government agencies. And he decided in 1966-67 that he
was going to sort of escape government oversight, and he bought three ships. And the largest of
them was called the Apollo, and he hung out on the Apollo and sailed around in the Mediterranean,
and then ultimately into the Caribbean. And that was the people from the Apollo in the Caribbean,
who then moved ashore here to Clearwater in late 1974, early 1975. And I was with Hubbard
throughout that time period. And then when we came to Clearwater, or when we came ashore from the
Apollo, I was actually one of the very first people that came to the Fort Harrison. I was there
when it was still the Jack-Tarr Hotel before Scientology had taken possession of it.
Wow. I sort of rose in the ranks of Scientology ultimately to become the International Spokesperson
for Scientology on the board of directors of the Church of Scientology International,
which is the mother church of Scientology, and the head of what's known as the Office of Special
Affairs. And the Office of Special Affairs is a very euphemistic sounding or very euphemistic name
for the Department of Scientology that deals with external matters, which includes external threats,
which means taking care of the enemies of Scientology. And that
history, when Elrun Hubbard died in 1986, there was a sort of a vacuum created. He didn't leave any
specific clear instructions about what was to happen after he croaked. And David Miscavige,
the current leader of Scientology, ultimately prevailed in a sort of power struggle and took over
and has followed in the footsteps of Hubbard since then. So initially I worked for Hubbard,
but then I started working for Miscavige when he took over. And I was along with another guy called
Marty Rathman, sort of the two people who dealt with all external matters for Scientology,
the IRS exemption, dealing with governments, dealing with legal cases, with the media,
with all anything that had to do with Scientology's relationship to the world and
the difficulties that may be having PR-wise or legal-wise.
Wow. So what was it like being around Elrun Hubbard? And how old were you at that time?
I was 18 when I first arrived. I just turned 18 when I first arrived on the Apollo with Hubbard.
He was a very larger than life character. He was a large man, just physically, but he was also had
this sort of commanding presence of, you know, you knew when he walked in a room,
even if you didn't see him. He was just a big
narcissistic, but somewhat humorous, but crazy, but super smart. But like this, the enigmas
surrounding Elrun Hubbard are kind of hard to describe. There is a very, very brilliant book
written by an English author called Russell Miller that is an unauthorized biography of Elrun Hubbard.
And that book, Bare-Faced Messiah, is the best insight into the life of Hubbard. Hubbard was a,
at heart, he was a bullshitter. He was a storyteller. He made his living, writing fiction
works, science fiction, and other sorts of pulp fiction. And he basically took his skill as a writer
of fiction and turned it into a money-making proposition as the author of Scientology. And
you know, there are things in Scientology that are,
that most people would agree with. It's not all nuts. Like there's enough of it that is
sort of makes sense and does help some people and is pretty benign. And interesting, what's sort of
interesting about it is how cleverly it is constructed to have a sort of a face to the world
and a presentation to new people that makes it kind of attractive and interesting. And only once
you've immersed yourself in it more, do you start to see the darker side. Right. But yeah, it seems
at least for face value. It seems like a very productive, get shit done,
get rid of the negative influences in your life. And it's a very positive way to
be a better version of yourself in all aspects, at least for face value.
Well, that's what it promotes. And like I said, there are aspects to it that are presented to
the world that make it appear that way. The unfortunate truth is that there is a very dark
underbelly to Scientology. And you know, that's what we really covered in the Aftermath series
that Leah Remini and I did. And now we are covering on the podcast that we are doing,
which is called Scientology Fair Game. And Fair Game is the real meat of the nasty business of
Scientology, because Fair Game is the policy and practices that were laid out by Elran Hubbard
to destroy enemies. And, Danny, you wouldn't believe the detail that he went into on how
you go about doing that. And this is all written in documents that are available.
You know, they're not readily available. They're much more available now. WikiLeaks has got a
bunch of them. I've put a bunch of them on my blog. They've sort of leaked out over the years.
But these are documents that say, basically, to harass, intimidate, trick, lie, destroy enemies.
And enemies, as I put in quotation marks, because in the Scientology or the Hubbard definition
of enemy is anybody who disagrees with questions, opposes, or criticizes Scientology in any way.
It's not, you know, you don't have to be an out and out criminal to be
designated an enemy of Scientology. Right. You know, you can just be a person who speaks on
TV or does an interview and writes a story. I mean, Tom Tobin and Joe Childs are enemies of
Scientology. You know, the reporters from the Tampa Bay Times, in fact, back in the early days
of Scientology in Clearwater, there was a reporter for the then-Saint Beat Times, Betty Orsini,
who had exposed the fact that Scientology had purchased the Fort Harrison, because when that
was done, it was done under the guise of being a front group called the United Churches of Florida.
Right. And the Southern Land Development and Leasing Corporation. And it was like
she exposed that and she became an enemy. And there was a bunch of things that were done by
Scientology to try and destroy her career and her life, get her fired from the St. Pete Times,
get her husband to divorce her. I mean, it was like an out and out campaign. And there had been
campaigns. The mayor of Clearwater at that time, Gabe Kazaris, who was also very upset about the
fact that nobody had been up front when we first came to Clearwater, became the target of monumental
efforts to destroy him. He was set up in a fake hit-and-run accident at a conference in
Washington, D.C. They planted documents in files saying that he was bigamously married to a woman
in Mexico. They got students, quote, students who were young women to claim that he was having
affairs with them. And this was all documented after the FBI raided Scientology in 1977 in
Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles and discovered all the documents that laid out these plans
to destroy people. Wow. And so it's not just, you know, anybody who is considered to be a
nuisance to Scientology, they don't just sort of lie down and take it. They go out and actively
work to destroy that person and shut them down. And in fact, that was my job as the head of the
Office of Special Affairs. My responsibility and what I was judged on in that job was the number
of dismissed attackers. That was what the, you counted the number of dismissed attackers and
a dismissed attacker is another euphemistic term for someone that's been shut the fuck up.
Okay. Whether by intimidation, whether by threats, whether by legal action of suing,
whether by getting a settlement, whatever it was, if that person was no longer now speaking
about what they considered to be the abuses or problems in Scientology, that counted as a plus.
They've been neutralized. Yeah. Right. So you were the head of this specific operation of
neutralizing people that were outside of Scientology trying to discredit Scientology.
So going back when you first came back to Clearwater on Apollo, the boat, when you
first started working in the Fort Harrison flag building, what were you doing there?
At the time, I was the Telex operator. Scientology still used Telexes. And that's because back in
the 1960s, Telex was the sort of communication method of choice. And strangely in Scientology,
there is this sort of thing where if Elrond Hubbard said it, then it can't be changed.
So Scientology continues to use Telexes to this day, even though they may not use Telex machines,
per se, anymore, you know, the clackity, clackity, clack, and they transmit of, you know,
fiber optics with a computer terminal, they still call them Telexes, because that's what Elrond
Hubbard said is the method that you're supposed to communicate. So I digress always, Danny,
into all sorts of strange oddball facts about these things. But I was in charge of sending and
receiving communications from Scientology organizations all over the world into Clearwater.
Okay. That's what I did. And how old were you again?
By that time, I was 22. 22. And at that point, you were also, you were already working with
David Miscavige, who was the leader? No, David Miscavige hadn't even come into the Seog by then.
Oh, really? No. At what point did you finally meet him? I think in 1976. Well, actually, back up.
Okay. Truth be told, I met him and his father and his mother and his brother and his twin sister
and his younger sister back in 1969, when I traveled to England with my parents to go to the
home of Elrond Hubbard, which is St. Hill Manor in East Grinstead, Sussex. David Miscavige's parents
were also there, had traveled to England to go to the home of Elrond Hubbard and study Scientology.
And I met Dave, his sister, Denise, his twin sister, Denise, his younger sister, Laurie,
and his older sister, Ron, and his mother and father then. Ron, Jr., joined the Seog
organization like a year before Dave did. And I was friends with Ron, Jr. in the Seog,
and then Dave came, and I think it was 1976, and he came to Clearwater. He was 16. He had
not finished high school, and he came to Clearwater to join the Seog and then, ultimately,
to go work with Elrond Hubbard, who had by this time moved to California.
Okay. Now, what was he doing? What was his day-to-day job?
Well, there's many, but when he got pretty quickly, he went to California, and he was
an assistant cameraman. Elrond Hubbard, at that time, fancied himself as a movie director and
producer, and was doing movies to promote Scientology and to train what's called auditors
in Scientology, which is Scientology counselors. And he had set up this sort of makeshift movie
studio on a property near La Quinta in California, which is just outside of Palm Springs. And
David Miscavige was brought there, and he was the assistant cameraman on those shoots.
There was pictures of Miscavige standing there with Elrond Hubbard with an old-style,
I guess it's a 35mm, it's probably not even a 35mm camera, whatever, with an old-style movie
camera. And then from there, Miscavige graduated to
becoming the person, and I try and avoid too much of the terminology, but a person who was
charged with sending SEAOG members from where Elrond Hubbard was out into
different Scientology organizations around the world to deal with problems.
His title was actually The Action Chief.
Seems like a good name, a good title for somebody like him. I mean, watching those videos of him
walking into those big, those big, giant seminars, where he like literally marches out to that podium,
he's like Vince McMahon. Exactly. His body language is just like Vince McMahon. Exactly.
Vince McMahon or Tony Robbins or Tony Robbins. He has that sort of swagger, and he has a very
interesting sort of public persona that he generates, and he's all hell-fellow-well-met,
shaking hands. The real David Miscavige is a total sociopath. He is a very,
he has all the traits of a sociopath. I read a fascinating book when I first left
that was recommended to me by someone called The Sociopath Next Door, written by a Harvard
professor called Martha Stout. I read that book and I went, oh my god, this is exactly,
she wrote this book about David Miscavige. My god, it's exactly him. Only then did I come to
realize that this is a personality disorder. It's not limited to Miscavige. It's not
something that is unknown in the world outside, but that sort of struck me because I believe that
he was the only person on planet Earth that could be as nuts as he is.
To me, nobody else could be quite like that. Nobody else could sink into the levels of
depravity that he's sank to, but I came to realize that that actually isn't the case.
Well, you knew him for a very long time. How long did it take before once Elron Hubbard died
and Miscavige became known as this leader, and how did you become his right-hand man,
or the head of that Special Affairs part of the organization?
It's sort of a long story, but the beginning of it is that I was chosen by Miscavige to
participate in a series of actions to dismantle what was called the Guardian's Office.
The Guardian's Office was the precursor to the Office of Special Affairs.
And that Guardian's Office was set up by Hubbard?
By Hubbard, and his wife, Mary Sue Hubbard, was the head of the Guardian's Office.
And I told you earlier about this raid that the FBI did in 1977 and all those documents.
The result of that was the federal government prosecuted Mary Sue Hubbard and 10 other leaders
of the Guardian's Office. They ultimately pled guilty and all went to federal prison.
For infiltrating the government, for stealing documents from the government, for bugging
the offices of the IRS and the DOJ. And I mean, it was a massive, massive operation,
the largest infiltration and spying operation ever against the United States government.
And the ultimate outcome of that was that Hubbard decreed that the Guardian's Office,
including his wife, had been traitors and that they had messed up so badly that they had to
all be gotten rid of. And so it was put on the plate of Miscavige to do that.
And where was Hubbard during all this? He was hiding. Hiding. Literally.
He disappeared in the middle of the night. He drove off in a car with two people
from La Quinta. Originally, he went to Reno, Nevada and lived in a motel. And then when things
seemed to be safe, he sort of came back and lived in Hammett, which is near the
Golden Era productions property, which became the international sort of headquarters of Scientology
in Riverside County, California. But then when things heated up there and he thought that he
was going to be subpoenaed or someone was going to catch him, he went first to Newport Beach.
And he drove around in a bluebird bus motorhome for a whole bunch of time traveling around
incognito and then bought a ranch near Creston, California, which is north of Santa Barbara.
And lived under an assumed name with a long beard and long hair there until he died.
Miscavige, meanwhile, had gone and disbanded the Guardian's office, but as I said,
replaced it with the Office of Special Affairs. And that was in 1981. And because of my participation
in that, I ended up sort of moving into the Office of Special Affairs and then rising in the ranks
of the Office of Special Affairs until I became the head of it. Okay. So this is so crazy. How
does it feel to you now? I mean, you were once a head of Special Affairs, which was in charge of
dealing with people like who you are right now. So you're considered right now, you are considered
one of the biggest threats to Scientology. Is that right? Absolutely. They devote a lot of time,
a lot of money, a lot of private investigators, a lot of websites, a lot of smear campaigns to
me and Leah Remini. We're like number one and two on the hit parade of Scientology.
So how does I mean, knowing what you know, because you were the head of that, and you
obviously saw everything that went on, like the top tier of the organization,
as far as handling people like yourself, how does that make you feel now being one of the
number one people who are outspoken about this? Well, honestly, I feel like I have a responsibility
to do it. I feel like I have a responsibility to all the people who have been abused by Scientology
and will continue to be abused by Scientology. I feel like there probably isn't anybody else
in the world who has the insight and the knowledge that I have to be able to dissect what happens
and expose the truth about what really is going on. That is coupled with the,
how the hell did I not get this? Why did it take so long? I'm not stupid,
but I was for a very long time, and this is what is so sinister about Scientology, is
ultimately, if you walk down to the spiritual headquarters of Scientology and Clearwater
there and spoke to those Scientologists, you would find generally that they are nice people.
They're not wackos, they're not spouting crazy, standing on a street corner, the world is ending
with holding signs. They're like normal people that live sort of apparently normal lives,
but if you poke around into how they view the world, they have a very distorted view of the world,
and they will do things that one wouldn't imagine that you could get someone like that to do
with the idea that it is helping or protecting Scientology. And if you can convince someone that
Scientology is the answer to man's problems and the only hope for mankind and the only path to
spiritual freedom, people would do things that you wouldn't expect that they would be willing to do
in order to protect that. And Scientologists, you know, that's why Larry Wright, his brilliant book
Going Clear is subtitled Scientology, The Prison of Belief, because it's a mind prison.
You get sucked in with the good ideas and what are apparently the good intentions of Scientology,
and gradually start to believe this twisted world view that there is an evil conspiracy
of psychiatry and medical doctors and big pharma and governments who are seeking to
control and enslave mankind, and that the only hope for mankind is Scientology. And if you ask
any one of those normal looking people walking down the street in clear water, whether what they
just say the word to them, listen, tell me about psychiatry. You will get a blithering idiot rant
from them about psychiatry of the enemies of mankind. They're destroying people. They're
they're electric shocking them. They're doing prefrontal lobotomies. They're sticking ice picks
in their eyeballs. They're doing this. They're doing that like this is the the us versus them
mentality that is absolutely hammered into every Scientologist in the world. And people like me
or reporters for the St. Pete Times, you know, now Tracy McManus, we're all, if not
just as evil, we are the tools of the evil. We have become the, you know, Satan's, Satan's
bag men who are doing the work of psychiatry and big pharma to seek to eradicate Scientology,
because Scientology is the only effective foil against their evil. And if you if you Danny,
if you go look, you will see Scientology has said that I'm being paid by big pharma. I'm a spokesperson
for the psychiatry for psychiatry. Leah Remini and like anybody is this and this is the the crazy
mindset that lies just beneath the social veneer of the normal looking Scientology people.
Yeah, I mean, like for one thing, if you if you Google your name, the first thing you see is all
these random weird little blogs that are like hit pieces on you and who you are, like you're a woman
Nars or you're this terrible person, you abandon your family, right, and all this stuff. So these
are all websites created by these people. Right. And they, and they pay stain on your name. They
pay for them to be at the top of searches on my name. Like they spend tax exempt dollars on that
shit. And on hiring private investigators to go through my trash or set up cameras outside my
house or put GPS tracking devices on my cars or show up. Like I have been all over the world
since I left Scientology. Like I went to England a couple of times because I was interviewed by
the BBC. There would be Scientology protesters there. I went to Australia to be interviewed by
Brian Seymour at Channel seven. They sent private investigators on the plane with me who followed
me around in Australia with cameras. I went to Ireland. They had protesters at the airport when
I landed in Ireland. This, the amount of money that gets spent on this is insane. And it is
actually being subsidized by taxpayers because Scientology has tax exempt status. So that money
is not only tax free. It's not, there's no accounting for it. There is no oversight of what
Scientology spends its money on. Right. There's absolutely zero regulation on them. Nope. And
there is no way for the IRS even to require, go in and do an audit or require them to report.
Nothing. There is a, there is a law in the United States called the Church Audits Procedures Act
which basically prevents the IRS from doing anything with a religious organization.
Now explain that. What was that like, that whole, the whole fight to get the tax,
to get Scientology to be tax exempt? Because I know there was, there was two stages of it,
right? Obviously the first stage which led to the FBI raids and all that stuff early on
where they found out what Scientology was trying to do. But then again, there was the
thing with all the lawsuits that were filed. What was, how did that whole war against the IRS come
about? And what was that, what was it like being in your position doing that? Okay. That war against
the IRS came about partly because of the dictates of Elrond Hubbard, who, thanks, who said that,
you know, the IRS is an enemy and taxation is bad and blah, blah, blah, blah, because
they had denied Scientology tax exempt status early. Originally they granted it and then
denied it saying that money was being funneled to Hubbard and that was what's called enurement,
which is a violation. You can't have a person benefiting from something that is tax exempt,
like personally, right? You can be paid, you know, the head of National Geographic gets paid,
even though it's a tax exempt organization. But if the head of National Geographic was getting
huge royalties from the sale of National Geographic stuff, that would not, that would
eliminate their qualification for tax exemption. When Elrond Hubbard died, he had a will and his
will said that the money that he had accumulated and the rights to his writings, which were both
fiction and the Scientology writings, which are all copyrighted, every single word that he ever
wrote is copyrighted and royalties are paid on by every church of Scientology and every sale of
every book. That all of that money and that revenue stream were to go to an organization that was
dedicated to preserving his technology. And technology is a term that Hubbard used to describe
his writings and the scripture of Scientology. And he used technology because he always tried to
present Scientology as very scientific. This isn't belief. This is where religion meets science.
You may have seen some of the ads that Scientology does. They do one a year, usually at the Super Bowl
and one of the lines they run. Do they really? Yeah. I don't think I've ever seen a Scientology
Super Bowl ad. Oh, yeah. Really? Yes. Yeah. Okay. I wish we could pull. I wish I had one. I could
Oh, you can find them online. Yeah. Just Google Scientology Super Bowl ad. They're like every year.
That's unbelievable. And you'll see that they often say this is where science meets religion.
You know, this is the culmination of Eastern philosophy and Western material. I mean,
all this stuff. Anyway, Hubbard called this stuff technology. Okay. And he decreed in his will
that this, his money that he had accumulated, you know, a few hundred million dollars, I guess,
and the revenue streams from future because those royalties continue to be paid,
were to vest in an organization which is called the Church of Spiritual Technology.
And the Church of Spiritual Technology was an organization that was established to preserve
the writings and recorded lectures of Elrond Hubbard on stainless steel, etched into stainless steel,
stored in titanium pods in nuclear proof volts dug into the site of mountains.
I know that sounds really bizarre, but that is Hubbard's legacy. He wanted his materials to
survive what he said was the coming nuclear holocaust on planet Earth so that future civilizations,
it would still be available to them. They could dig this shit up out of the the volts,
and there it would be all preserved wonderfully. And this has been hundreds of millions of dollars
have been spent putting, you know, his millions and millions of words and thousands of lectures
onto into into indestructible form and buried in volts in New Mexico and in California.
Okay, that's like I said, I digress a lot because there's so much to these things.
The requirement for that to happen was that the Church of Spiritual Technology had to have
tax exempt status because he didn't want his estate to be paying taxes on the transfer of the money
to the organization. Okay, okay. The IRS refused to grant tax exempt status to the Church of
Spiritual Technology and Scientology sued and lost. And at that point, David Miscavige, who was
now responsible for conducting the affairs of Scientology and carrying out the wishes of Elrond
Hubbard in his will, had a problem. There was this estate sitting there with hundreds of millions
of dollars with orders to preserve the technology. And he didn't have a way of getting that done.
And Scientologists believe that when you die, you come back again in another body.
And Miscavige was worried that Hubbard was coming back and would be like, what the fuck, dude?
How come you haven't gotten this done? He thought that his spirit or what they call it
Thayton, his Thayton spirit would somehow after he died, they said that it left his body and he
went to do research as just a spirit and that he truly believed he would come back into a human meat
sack. And yes, and Hubbard had written, here is how you will know who I am. This is how I will
be identifiable. Really? Yes. And how was that? How I have no idea. I don't know. I don't care.
But that then started what was seriously the war on the IRS. If we can't get the IRS to agree
to granting tax exempt status to the Church of Spiritual Technology and we can't get the courts
to agree, we are going to force the IRS to agree. And this is where Fair Game comes in,
because what happened was a very, very intense campaign was conducted against the IRS and against
individual agents in the IRS and in the hierarchy of the IRS that were responsible for tax exempt
religious tax exempt organizations. And there were, like you talk about these smear sites
back in the day that it was sort of pre-internet, but there were magazines that Scientology published
called Freedom Magazine. And these people were put on the cover of Freedom Magazine. Private
investigators were sent into IRS conventions and documented IRS agents getting drunk at
conventions. They sent women in, like everything that you can, and filed a thousand lawsuits
against the, well, let me back up. Part of the strategy was to request freedom of information,
make freedom of information requests to all IRS offices around the country. And to, because what
happens when, when you get a document released under freedom of information, you see the blacked
out, but the same document may be in five different offices and you'll get different blackouts from
different offices. Okay. And if you've got enough people, which Scientology has plenty of people
and plenty of money, you can sit and compare all these and, and start noticing, okay, here's the,
this line was blacked out on this document that we got from San Antonio, but the same line is not
blacked out on the document we got from Sacramento. So now we know that that, and now we also know
that this was a bullshit blackout. What was, why were they, what were they blacking out?
They black out, uh, names of people or things that they think are protecting confidential
informants or like there's all sorts of things that are justified in blacking out in a, in a
Freedom of Information Act document. Okay. So what happened was Scientology filed lawsuits
where they refused to provide documents or where they provided documents that were differently
vetted. Okay. And ultimately ended up with about a thousand and filed lawsuits on behalf of
individual Scientology parishioners who had had their deductions to Scientology
denied, they paid money to Scientology and claimed it as a deduction. Got it. Yep.
They were denied. So they filed individual lawsuits. And who told them to do this? The
Office of Special Affairs. You. Yeah. Okay. Well, not me personally, but people that work for me,
and this was all part of the campaign that was directed by David Miscavige to force the IRS
into what's called a more amenable frame of mind. And that is one of Hubbard's writings where he
takes a thing from this, from either Sun Tzu or Klausowitz out of war on war, these books that he
studied that he then laid out these directives for Scientology to follow and said the, the aim of
war is to get your enemy into a more amenable frame of mind. And that was the objective with
the IRS, get them into a more amenable frame of mind. And it was very, very effective because
ultimately what happened is David Miscavige walked into the IRS headquarters in Washington, DC,
and said, I want to meet the commissioner. I want to see the commissioner. And.
This was right after you guys, they filed thousands of lawsuits. People, they were just
getting all these freedom magazines. We were taking out full page ads in USA Today about the IRS,
full page ads in the New York Times. Like it was. So just like, in other ways of putting it,
just unloading all kinds of artillery on them to where they were just like beat up. Correct.
And Miscavige and Marty Rathbone walked into the IRS headquarters and said,
they walked up the reception desk and said, I want, we want to see the commissioner. Do
you have an appointment? No, just tell them David Miscavige is here from the church of Scientology.
And they didn't meet with him that day, but three days later they did. And Fred Goldberg,
who was the IRS commissioner at the time, said, look, can you guys, can you turn off the faucet?
Can you, can we just be done? And Miscavige said, of course we can't just give us exemption.
Fred Goldberg then formed a special committee inside the IRS to review Scientology tax exempt
status. And it was headed by the deputy commissioner of the IRS for exempt organizations at the time,
a guy called John Burke. And John Burke was a really nice guy. And, but he was retiring.
He had absolutely nothing to lose. It was, he was at the end of his career. And so he and a bunch
of other IRS officials formed this committee and they asked hundreds of questions and wanted
millions of documents. And I literally commuted between LA and DC with Miscavige and Marty Rathbone
and a few other people for almost two years having meetings with the IRS routinely and providing them
with documents and answers to their questions. And in the end, they basically said, okay, we give
what they were really looking for was enough justification to be able to grant the exemption.
Because they had been mandated by the IRS commission. Originally, we need to turn,
we need to shut this shit down, review this. So really their mandate was to review it to
figure out how they could do it. Because they had a problem, a big problem. There was a United
States Supreme Court case called Hernandez v. Commissioner, where one of those people that
I told you who had had their deductions denied took the case all the way to the US Supreme Court.
Jesus. And two years before this whole thing with the IRS, the US Supreme Court said that
donations or payments to Scientology were not tax deductible because they are a quid pro quo
transaction. Our quid pro quo has become a big, everybody knows what it is now. Back then,
it was like tax people knew about it and that was all. And there also the case of the Church
of Spiritual Technology had been lost and appealed to the federal appeals court and had been lost
in the federal appeals court. So there were these decisions that they had to somehow circumvent.
And honestly, to this day, I've talked to various tax professors and professionals
and they don't really understand how the IRS got away with this. And at the time when the settlement
of granting Scientology exemption was announced, and it was secret for quite a while,
and the actual document laying out the settlement was secret. The Wall Street Journal and the New
York Times were like up in arms about this is outrageous and how did this happen and blah,
blah, blah. And Scientology just kind of, we just kind of went, you know,
salgrape stuff, you know, whatever. And that became, in the eyes of Scientologists,
Muscavitch's claim to fame. In October of 1993, when the IRS granted this exemption,
he held a huge event at the L.A. Sports Arena. And there were about...
Staple Center? No, it was before. It's where the Clippers used to play.
Oh, where the Clippers. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I never talked about it.
And there were about 10,000 people from all over, Scientologists from all over the world,
that were gathered for this event and he announced this victory. And it was, you know,
fireworks. And he was on this huge stage that looks like a Nuremberg rally with sconces and
flames. And the announcement was ultimately after a long-winded explanation about how rotten
the IRS is and they did this and they did that and we did this and we did that and we blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. The war is over. That was what the final announcement was. The war is over,
we won. And this cemented in the mind of Scientologists, including me,
that Miscavige had pulled off and accomplished something that Elrond Hubbard hadn't been able to
and that he had applied the exact policies of Hubbard on fair game and how you destroy enemies
and how you go off to people, always attack, never defend, et cetera, et cetera. And it worked.
And the credibility that this gave Miscavige lost to this day. Miscavige can do no wrong in the eyes
of Scientologists, partly because of that. And when there is massive hits on Scientology PR-wise,
like when Going Clear aired on HBO or when the aftermath was showing, he would routinely order
that all Scientologists were to re-watch that event. It's in every Scientology
church and mission around the world and people are ordered to come in and re-watch the, it's
called now the Turning Point event. And it is two hours of David Miscavige patting himself on the
back and then announcing that he's done what nobody else could do and gotten exemption from the IRS.
Now, what happens with documentaries like HBO's Going Clear? Do they, in Scientology,
do they confront that? Like, do they like say, hey, watch this documentary, here's where it's
wrong? No, no, no, no. It is forbidden to watch what's called n theta. n theta is a Scientology term,
which means interpolated theta. Theta, like you said, is the term for the spirit or spiritual
things. And interpolation is upset. And n theta is bad news. That's, it's sort of short. It's the
Scientology word for what we would say, bad news. And so Scientologists are not allowed to watch
going clear or the aftermath or read the St. Pete Times when the Truth rundown series came out in
the St. Pete Times in 2009. Yeah. The three part, three part series. Yeah. Yeah. Scientology went
around and bought all the newspapers emptied all the newsstands in Clearwater so that no
Scientologists would be able to get that paper. And that has happened routinely. And it is thought
in Scientology that if you are exposed to that sort of negative information that it will cause you
to be what's called in Scientology a potential trouble source. You will become sick. You will
start having accidents. Bad things will start happening to you and you will have to undergo a
course of action that will fix you up. In fact, I wrote, Leah and I wrote an article about this
on my blog this morning called Scientology deaths and suicides where we go through how Scientology
views sickness. But this came about because of Kelly Preston's tragic death from breast cancer
and Lisa Marie Presley's son's suicide. And people keep asking us, how does this come,
you know, what does Scientology have to do with this? And we try to lay out and a big part of
this is this concept that you only become ill and you only start having accidents and become
accident prone or depressed or whatever when you are connected to a source of what's called
suppression in Scientology or anybody who questions anything. Correct. And this can be a person or it
can be a book. Larry writes, going clear book that could be the source of why you now suddenly
became ill, that you read that book and it is a connection to a source of suppression.
And I mean, the title of that book, The Prison of Beliefs, it really encapsulates everything
that you're saying. It's a prison because you can't question anything. No, you cannot close
mindedness. Absolutely. You're questioning in Scientology is anathema to Scientology. Right.
There's no such thing. The word of El Runhabad is the word of God. It is not to be questioned. It
is not to be interpreted. It is not to be taken in and refed out. It is just to be read exactly
and applied exactly as it is read. And Scientology is a very, very literal organization or literal
study. It is read what he says. If he says this, he means that and that's it. And it's
it's really bad form in Scientology to question anything or anybody and most particularly
to question El Runhabad. Although nowadays it's pretty close to questioning El Runhabad to question
David Miscavige. Like what he says is the law and that's it. Where's David Miscavige today?
Does he live around here or does he live in one of the one of the big buildings? I mean there's
huge amounts of real estate that's owned by Scientology. But when he travels around but
when he's in Clearwater, he lives at the Hacienda Gardens. That apartment complex that is out there
on Keen, just north of Drew. Okay. And he comes into the big superpower building, the big building
across from the Fort Harrison. The bridge that goes over the road. Yes, exactly. And he has a
private entrance that goes in. The garage door goes up and it drives into the basement and he
gets out in the basement and he goes up to his office that's in the one of the corner turrets
of that building. Yeah. And that's where he works. That's so that's so crazy. He seems like this
mysterious character now. Like you never see anything about him in public. You never see
any sort of interview with him by anybody. He's just in the shadows. Well, he doesn't want to
be served with a subpoena. He is terrified of being served with a subpoena. Really? Yes.
Yes. Because he has a lot to answer for that he could not ever answer up about.
That's another brings up another topic is a lot of people question you
about David Miscavige in regards to the fact that you've come out about so much and you were so
close to him. How come you haven't been able to give up enough information to lead to like an arrest
of him or to send him to prison like people. Well, I would love to know the answer to that too.
I have talked to every law enforcement agency that I could possibly think of and given them
everything and every document and every everything that I have and I continue to do so. Like
it's not from lack of trying. Believe me. It is not from lack of trying and the difficulty always
with any sort of prosecution or even a legal case against Scientology is
two fault, three fault, one. Scientology will turn it into a nuclear war and just like
you know there is a bunch of writings by Elron Hubbard about making litigation punitive
and punishing your opponent through litigation. Making everything difficult like noticing
depositions, appealing every hearing, appealing every order, filing crazy stuff to disqualify the
lawyers, to disqualify judges, like anything and everything to make it as expensive and painful
as possible for anybody to pursue a legal case against Scientology. It's a scorched earth
litigation strategy that has proven very, very effective. Secondly, Scientology has,
because of what I was saying to you before, this idea that
saving Scientology or preserving Scientology is the most important thing for all of mankind.
Scientologists will lie. If they believe that saying something would be harmful to Scientology,
they won't say it. Let me give you an example. When we did the Truth Rundown series with Joe
Childs and Tom Tobin at the St. Pete Times, me, Marty Rathbone, Tom DeVoc, Jeff Hawkins,
a bunch of people spoke to them and said, look, here are the things that have happened and
part of this is we have witnessed and experienced ourselves on numerous occasions,
David Muscavige being physically violent with members of the C organization.
Those claims were put to Scientology. How do you respond to the fact that this person,
this person, this person, this person, this person, this person, they all swear that they
have seen this happen. I mean, you even claimed in the HBO documentary that Muscavige physically
assaulted you on numerous occasions, right? Yeah. I've said it over and over and it absolutely
happened and there's been tons of people that have witnessed it and I've witnessed it with
tons of other people. He seems like a little guy. I don't think he can do that. How much damage could
he do? Did you defend yourself? No, because if you defend yourself, you're attacking him.
Okay. Oh, so if you defend yourself, you're attacking Scientology.
And trying to attack David Muscavige who is Scientology. He is Scientology. Right. But at the time,
a bunch of the people, like because Joe and Tom, you know, they're good reporters,
they were like very diligent and they would say, well, tell me who you saw David Muscavige
physically assault. And so I would say, well, I saw him assault Mark Yeager and Mark Ingber
and Wendell Reynolds and Ray Middoth and Norman Starchy. And I would go through the list and
then independently, they would go to Marty Rethman and say, who did you see? David Muscavige strike.
Oh, I saw him strike Mark Yeager without me present. And then they would go to Tom DeVocht
and he would say exactly the same thing. So they verified that this, like there's no way that you
can have people just randomly coming up with these same stories. Right. So they wrote, as they always
did, to Scientology and said, how do you respond to the fact that we have numerous witnesses that
say David Muscavige has struck Mark Yeager, struck Ray Middoth struck blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
comes back the answer. This is outrageous. These people are all paid liars. They're this, they're
that. And here are 50 affidavits signed by those very people all saying they have never been struck
by David Muscavige. And these things are completely manufactured lies just fabricated, totally fabricated.
But in their mind, this is saving and protecting Scientology. And this is a problem when prosecuting
Scientology or filing a lawsuit is, and particularly in a criminal case,
the standard in a criminal case is guilty beyond reasonable doubt. If you can create reasonable
doubt, you have to be found not guilty and reasonable doubt in the mind of a prosecutor.
And they're not used to this. Five people come in and say, this happened. And then Scientology gets
wind of it for whatever reason, and they will have 50 or 100 people give signed under penalty
of perjury affidavits saying it never happened. And they go, how do we prosecute a case like this?
And it's sort of the hard thing for prosecutors to understand to be able to put together a case
when they always have to make decisions about where are they going to invest their resources?
What are they going to put their time and effort into? Are they going to be able to get an actual
guilty verdict? And so this is why now after the exposés in the Tampa Bay Times and going clear,
and then subsequently in the aftermath, David Miscavige doesn't appear anywhere anymore.
Because his weakness is that if he has to testify under oath, he may get people to
lie with him, but particularly in a civil case, that may not be good enough.
And he can't answer up for certain things. And there are things that he doesn't want to have to
answer up to. And so he stays out of sight. And it's some comfort to me that he now has to live
the life of a hermit. I may be being harassed and they may say shitty things about me all the time
and follow me and do whatever, but I just live my life. Are you still being harassed to this day?
Absolutely. Well, you just said it yourself. Look up my name, Google my name, and you'll
see a bunch of ads from Scientology about how I'm a wife-beater. My daughter is out, has a website,
and she's a SEA org member, by the way. Yeah, how fucked up is that situation? Your whole family?
It's crazy. My son, my daughter, my ex-wife, my brother, my sister, all of these people
are out there saying, you know, what a horrible person I am that I'm a wife-beater, that I shake
babies, that I'm a womanizer, that I'm a this, that I'm a that, like whatever. And again, this is
pursuant to the Scientology idea that I'm a bag man for Satan and that destroying me is good for
the world. And that Hubbard says that anybody who is a critic of Scientology, and he wrote a thing
about this that's on my blog, has crimes. They have felonies in the background, and this has been
proven over and over. And even if you don't know what the felony is, you can be absolutely safe
accusing them of committing felonies, because whether you got the right one or not doesn't matter.
So this is how Scientology goes about things. They do disconnecting, right?
Yeah, that's disconnection. That's like, and that's back to the theory of the bad things happen to you
when you're connected to sources of suppression. And sources of suppression is someone like me.
So my children, my mother, my brother, my sister, all the rest of my family, because
if they want to remain Scientologists, they must disconnect from me. And because my daughter and
son are both in the C organization, they must carry out whatever they are told to do in order to try
and get me dismissed as an attacker. Have you ever tried reaching out to them?
Absolutely. I went one time. My son at one point after I had left the C organization
had cancer, and I was unaware of it because nobody communicated to me. And in fact, Joe Childs called
me up, the reporter from the St. Pete Times, and said, I just got off the phone with a lawyer for
Scientology, and they said, you're such a shitty person that you didn't even try and see your son
when he had cancer. And he said, you have cancer? He said, yeah, I was afraid of that. You didn't
even know. And I said, no, I had no idea. So I drove to the Fort Harrison. I was living in
Palmer. I drove to the Fort Harrison. I went to the front door. I said, I want to see my son.
I understand he has cancer. I want to see him. They called the police and issued a trespass
warning on me and sent a PI out to spittle, burst, get off the property, get off the property.
And I was basically escorted from the premises. And that was the second last time. And the last
time I had any interaction with my daughter and ex-wife was when they followed me to a doctor's
office that's just off Gulf De Bay where my wife was seeing the doctor and I was standing in the
parking lot waiting for her. In fact, talking on the phone at the time with a reporter from the BBC
and my brother from Australia, my ex-wife from LA, my daughter from LA, four senior officials
of Scientology and two private investigators showed up and started screaming at me.
And Jesus Christ. It's such a fascinating story because I'm on the phone with the BBC and I said,
John, you'll never guess who just showed up here. Guillaume LaServe, Dave Bloomberg, my daughter,
Jenny Linson, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then you hear the screaming start. You fucker,
you piece of shit. You fucking asshole, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And ultimately this resulted
in like I tried to leave. I tried to walk. I'd been walking around talking to him on the phone.
I tried to get back to my car and they sought to prevent me from leaving and then took the keys
out of my car and threw him away. And it was like this whole sort of insane thing that's all recorded
on audio. And in the course of that, my ex-wife got a graze on her arm when she was trying to
prevent me from closing the car door. And then when they threw away the keys, I tried to get back
out of the car to go to the doctor's office to call the sheriffs. And ultimately the sheriffs came
and when the sheriffs came, they did this report and they called the paramedics because of the
blood on her arm. And the sheriffs came and the conclusion of their report was that it was
incidental contact that happened when I was trying to leave that they had followed me there
and that I was trying to get away. It was no incident. And the paramedics report was she had
a graze on her arm and she refused further treatment and put the pain at a two on a scale of one to
10. That is the basis now for Scientology claiming that I have beaten up my ex-wife.
Right. I remember seeing a video of that. Yeah. I caused her permanent physical damage. Now the
story is the bones, my daughter could hear the bones breaking in her shoulder that she has had
to have operations that she has had permanent neurological damage that she'll never recover
from. She can't sleep because she's in such pain. And this is now the campaign of Justice for Mum,
which is the website that ostensibly is the website of my daughter. And this is put up by
the Office of Special Affairs and is tried to tack on to the Me Too movement and my daughter got
sent out and got a picture taken with Gretchen Carlson and with Jackie Lacey, the district
attorney in Los Angeles and the mayor of LA in all these women's Me Too movement events with the
Justice for Mum. And that's still going on. That website still exists. She still does posts on it.
And in their video, they even had like a legitimate orthopedic surgeon in California.
I don't know that he was a legitimate orthopedic surgeon. I googled him. He had a website. I don't
know if he's legit. He might be a Scientologist. Right. Yeah. I wouldn't doubt it. Those reports,
the paramedics report and the police report from that incident, is that available publicly?
Yeah. I've got it on my blog. It's on various other blogs. It's been put like a lot of people have
taken this up and gone, wait a minute. What's going on here? A little deep enough you can find out.
Yeah. You don't have to look very far. You can just look on my blog. I think I have a post on this
that's called Mike Rinder Lady Killer or something and where I just went through and laid all this
out. And in fact, in one of the upcoming episodes of the new podcast with Leah, we talked about this.
It hasn't aired yet. And I'll have all the documents because I created a little website
to go with the podcast that just has the documents that we talk about on the podcast.
Okay. So they can watch it while you're talking about it. That website got hacked before it was
even live. Holy shit. These people are relentless. Totally. Totally. Now, did you ever worry like
fear for your own physical safety or is it just cyber stalking people following you around?
I mean, I know it can get weird, but has it ever come to any sort of physical threat?
Well, the only physical thing was this incident in the doctor's parking lot. That was physical.
But no, this is mind games. It's the prisoner belief and it's the mind fuck
of I'm going to make you believe that bad things are going to happen to you and unless you stop.
And I'm going to make it uncomfortable and unpleasant and make you worry about your family
and etc. etc. But I have never thought that that any physical damage would happen. I mean,
a few times some of their PIs have gotten sort of out of control. One of them ran into the back
of me one time. They've, you know, done crazy like driving down Gulf to Bay and literally,
no, US 19 and literally trying to keep up with me driving through over the center median on US 19
in order to not get left behind of the light and, you know, that sort of stuff. But as for,
you know, sending around the thugs with baseball bats, no, I don't, I'm never worried about that.
Going back, I meant to ask you this earlier. How could you possibly get into a scenario
where you're somewhere with David Miscavige, who is like the supreme leader of Scientology,
and he is beating you up? How does that situation come about? And what is the point of it?
Well, how does that situation come about? It just happens sort of on a routine daily basis of
anybody that's working around or with him. Like, what is he? Does he punch you in the face?
Sometimes slap, kick, comes up behind you and grabs you around the neck in a headlock,
or wrestles you to the ground, just random. He's like an angry little man. And, you know,
he grew up as a wrestler. That was what he did. And he sort of takes out his
aggression and frustrations physically. I mean, he's also very abusive verbally, too. I mean,
he's like incredibly verbally abusive as well. But this happens routinely. Anybody that worked
with him. And, you know, I don't know that he hasn't stopped doing the physical stuff when it's,
now that it's become so exposed, at least limited the scope of it to only the very,
very inner circle. But for a while, it was, you know, very routine. And
in, you get into a frame of mind that is so insane, that you believe that, and this is a sort
of a fundamental belief of Scientology, that whatever happens to you is your own fault,
that you have done something that has caused that to happen to you. So when David Miscavige
wails on you, your inclination is to go, what have I done that has caused the leader of Scientology
to be so upset that he has lost his fucking mind? And that is hammered in and hammered in and hammered
in. And you start to wonder whether it's you that is the problem. And honestly, the people that
remained there, who used to be the senior echelon of Scientology, those people all believe that it's
them, that they're nuts, that they're evil, and that they have failed to adequately support David
Miscavige in his campaign to save the world. I mean, I know how nuts this sounds, Danny,
and I know that a lot of people go, how could you not see this? How could you, and there is a lot
of reasons for it. And, you know, I saw it maybe two years before I ultimately left, but the consequences
of leaving are so terrible in your mind that you don't want to take that step. I didn't, I knew
that I would lose the woman I'd been married to for more than 30 years, I would lose my kids,
I would lose my mother and brother and sister, I believed at the time that I would lose my spiritual
eternity, and that I would walk out into the world, you know, 50 years old with no money, no
college degree, no, I mean, a resume of, I was the spokesperson for Scientology,
isn't much of a resume, and I had nowhere to go. So that is what kept me there for the last
number of years, until ultimately, I was in England dealing with the BBC, and Miscavige
started sending things saying, you're never coming back to the United States, you're a piece of
shit, you're never blah, blah, blah, blah, and I went personally sent you these things. Yeah.
What were they like emails, letters, just, yeah, letters, like a letter, and I then went, well,
okay, I don't have much left to lose. And eventually, I sort of reached the point of, well,
nothing can be worse than this. And I literally walked out of the Scientology building in London,
into the street with a briefcase, two Blackberry phones, my passport, and a hundred pounds.
That's it. I didn't have any clothes, I didn't have anything, I didn't have anywhere to go,
I got on the tube, and I went to Leicester Square, and I sat and then I wandered around in London
for a couple of days, and then I eventually called Tom DeVocht, who was one of the other people that
is in the Truth Rundown series, and who I had known since he was a child, and he had left the
Sea Org previous to me, and he was in Orlando, and I got a plane and flew to Orlando and stayed
with him for a while. And then I went from there, very shortly thereafter, and stayed with Ronnie
and Biddy Miscavige, David Miscavige's older brother, who had also left the Sea Org previously.
Really? Yes. What was that? What was it like hanging out with them and being around them?
Well, they were very, very old friends. I mean, they were my closest friends in the Sea Org. I had
known Biddy since I had arrived, her name is Elizabeth, since I had arrived on the Apollo,
and as I said, Ron Jr. from when he had first arrived in the Sea Org, and we had been very close,
our kids had grown up together. Jenna Miscavige, who ultimately wrote a book after she left about
her uncle, was really raised with my son, Benjamin, together. They were like brother and sister, and
it was very, very helpful to me because Ronnie and Biddy had left a couple of years before me,
and it takes a while to unravel your thoughts and how you see things and what you think about
things and figure out whether you're looking at something because that's what Scientology taught
you, or you're looking at something because that's what it really is. And it's a real process to
come out of that cocoon of that prison of belief, and it was very helpful having them
being such close, dear friends who had already gone a long way down that path.
And Biddy was the one that said to me when I first arrived there, you've got to write
immediately and demand that Kathy, my ex-wife, come and see us because she was Kathy's best friend.
And so I wrote to the Office of Special Affairs. I knew exactly who to write to, and I wrote to them.
I said, I want to see Kathy. And she answered back. I got a handwritten note back from her saying,
dear Mike, fuck you. I filed the divorce papers. Wow. So it was great having their support and their
help and their perspective. And because of who they were, they were sort of in a no fly zone as
far as the Office of Special Affairs went. They were left pretty much alone. David Miscavige didn't
want any of them coming out publicly. They hadn't said anything. They were sort of getting on with
their life. And so that was a great, great environment for me. And, you know, I'm eternally thankful to
them. Is there any sort of like silver bullet or thought process that you can look back on that
started off your thought process of your kind of like self-reflective thought process that helped
you escape that prison of belief? Was there any sort of thing in particular you can look back at
that kind of kicked that off? Yeah. The physical violence. Okay. I, you know, I would look at that
and go, this is not what I got in Scientology for. This is not what I, this is not my perception of
what Scientology really is. And though it's rationalized and explained away as being, you know,
various things, you know, your own fault, or, you know, we shouldn't be causing David Miscavige
to lose his temper or whatever, it was just, it was so foreign to what I believed were the
fundamental principles of Scientology. And then what really set it off was when John Sweeney was
doing his reporting for Panorama on the BBC, he had spoken to a lot of people and
they had told him about Miscavige physically abusing people. And John Sweeney asked me on camera,
is this true? And I denied it. And Miscavige was talking to me on the phone every day and telling
me, you know, you bet they better not come out with any of this. This is bullshit. This better
not air, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And ultimately I went, you know, what am I doing?
Why am I lying about this? Because John Sweeney is saying to me, I've got credible witnesses who
each one of them have said that they have seen David Miscavige physically assaulting you. I'm
thinking, why am I lying to protect that? Like I had gone on TV and I had lied about various
things like about OT3 in particular. This is one of these things in Scientology, the crazy story of
Xenu and the intergalactic Confederacy, etc, etc. And Scientologists believe that that is harmful
and can cause great spiritual harm to anybody who has not risen to that level in Scientology.
And I firmly believed that at the time. So I was being interviewed by Katie Couric on the
Today Show and she's like, well, tell me about Xenu and you know this and that. And I'm like,
no such thing. And I knew that that was not the case, but I believed that this was
a matter of religious conviction that I shouldn't talk about that because it would be hurting people
to do so. It would hurt the public perception. No, it would actually hurt people that you could die.
Hubbard says that if you're exposed to those materials before you are ready for them and have
advanced through the Scientology steps proceeding, that it can cause you to actually physically die,
that you can, it's a long-winded explanation, but your spirit's not ready for that kind of enlightenment.
Exactly. And that it will cause you to spin into an uncontrolled, he calls it freewheeling,
of flu and disease and illness and death, body death. And I believe that I was,
like at the time, I thought that was a justifiable thing to do, that to not acknowledge that was
a good thing. In other words, lying about that was good. I'm getting to this point with John
Sweeney and I go, why am I lying about this? This just is like, yes, it's happening. If it
really is happening and this is an actual part of Scientology, like, and you know, we're a tough
outfit and we're getting the job done and whatever, you know, all the other sort of
things that go along with it. Why not just say that? Why not just admit it? Like, yeah, I'm a tough
son of a bitch, but I'm getting my job done. I got IRS exemption. I'm like, so there didn't seem to be
a good, you know, rationalization for that. And that was what really, like, this gnawed at me and
gnawed at me and gnawed at me. And that's why eventually I left in London. You know, that was
sort of the, this last couple of weeks of my 35 year career in the C organization were very
intertwined with John Sweeney, BBC Panorama and what David Miscavige was saying to me.
Yeah, obviously you talked earlier about how you kind of feared the backlash from it and you
understood as being the head of Special Affairs, what would be the result of you leaving and all
of the negative attention and the stalking and the harassment and all that. Is that the reason
people like Tom Cruise and John Travolta haven't come out and talked about Scientology and exposed
it to the level that you have or at all? Because I remember the lady in the documentary who said
she was close to Tom, or not Tom, John Travolta. Spanky. Spanky, yeah, she worked with him forever
and she was pregnant, right? Is this the same one? Yes, absolutely. She was pregnant. They took
her baby from her when she was born because having a baby was too much of a burden and it would
distract you from your goals in Scientology. So they took the baby to like a cadet ward or
something, I believe it was called. Exactly. And she found her baby there malnourished,
like her eye, couldn't even open her eyes. Exactly. That fucking was a brutal story.
So and then I can't imagine someone like John Travolta seeing this happen to a close friend
and just completely. Well, John Travolta, I mean, the short answer to that question is
if they're not out and exposing Scientology, it means they're still true believers.
And John Travolta in particular has always responded to questions about that or other
abuses that people have asked him about, you know, witnessing and saying, look,
I don't know about any of that. I just know Scientology has helped me. So I'm for Scientology.
And he's gotten away with that for a long time and, you know, gotten away with it. I mean,
that's his prerogative to say that if he wishes that nobody follows up and goes, yeah, okay,
but, you know, isn't that pretty irresponsible of you? Like, don't you think that maybe you
should be concerned about what's happening with these other people who, you know,
David Miscavaches and punching you in the face, John. But what about the other people who he is?
They're not like forcing you into bankruptcy, John. But what about the people who are?
But, you know, generally the, the press goes pretty easy on
Cruz and Travolta when it comes to Scientology.
Well, partly because they're afraid of being accused of being bigots.
But because Scientology will turn around and you start having people going, well, you know,
a reporter really going after them on that. And Scientology will go after the reporter
and start saying, this guy's a bigot. He's, you know, he's doing, you know, would he ask Frank
Sinatra about his Catholicism? Would he tell, you know, would Richard Gere being, you know,
being interrogated about his belief in Buddhism and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And
there are all these lines. And so, you know, reporters for the most part are also somewhat
intimidated by Scientology's reputation. And, you know, there's a couple of them who have not
been. John Sweeney and Brian Seymour in Australia have said, you know, I want to ask, and I will
ask Tom Cruz these questions so they get banned from any interviews. So Tom Cruz goes on a press
junket for his next movie, Mission Impossible 27 or whatever it is that's coming. And
Brian Seymour and John Sweeney are on the list of reporters who are forbidden to participate
in the press junket because they only want people that will ask them puff balls. So I don't know,
it's, you know, I'd love to have a sit down with John or Tom. And Leah and I have offered that many,
many times. Leah and I have tried to get any Scientologists to talk to us, either on the
aftermath, now on the podcast, anybody, come on, let's, you know, let's have a discussion.
You can defend whatever it is and put forth your position, but they are definitely afraid to do
that. They just won't put themselves in a position where they are having to answer difficult questions.
So they don't even have any spokespeople anymore. Do you think the reason that people like John,
Travolta and Tom Cruz don't come out or leave Scientology is because they're afraid they have
too much dirt on them from the auditing sessions? I don't, I don't think that. Because I know that
in the documentary again, I know there's a mention of hidden cameras in some of those,
because John didn't want cameras in his session, so they hated cameras, right? Well, they hidden in
every auditing room. But yeah, yes, that's true. So you don't think there's, I mean,
could there be enough dirt to where they're saying? There could be. Certainly there could be.
You're asking me, do I think that's the case? I don't think that's the case. I mean, I think,
you know, if I was the PR person for Tom Cruz or John Travolta, I would tell them, look,
the best PR you will ever get is to say, I'm no longer a Scientologist.
Oh, for sure. And if Scientology then comes out and says, yeah, but you're fucking dogs on the side,
you just go, oh, that's just Scientology. I mean, it's easy to deal with these days. Like, those
guys, those guys could just dismiss it. Or, or, you know, well, John Travolta, you're a homosexual
who solicits men to give him blowjobs in bathhouses. And you just go, okay. So what? And what if I did?
So what? Like, you're not going to come to my movies. Hey, I guarantee you there will be a
lot more people that will not come to your movies because you're a Scientologist than people who
will not come to your movies because you gave someone a blowjob in a bathhouse. Right. So what
do you got to lose? So I don't believe that that is why I believe they're true believers. And I
believe that they are still in that prison, mind prison of belief. Do you think they'll ever come
out? God, I hope so. I mean, I hope everybody ultimately will. Yeah, I hope everybody will
ultimately see things more clearly than they can when they're sitting inside the bubble of Scientology.
You know, including my own children. And, but it's hard. It's a hard thing to do. And ultimately,
in my experience, what happens is there is some straw that breaks the camel's back.
And some it's not that someone comes along and tells you Scientology is bad or this is bad or
that's bad. It's some personal experience that you go through and you go, wait a minute, you can't
one person can't convince another person. It has to happen from inside. Exactly. You can then,
if they're questioning or they have doubts or they're wondering what's going on,
you can then give them information and that often helps. Like that's what happened with Leah.
I mean, Leah was like, I don't get with this. And this doesn't make sense and blah, blah, blah.
Now you're saying this stuff about these people that I know, me being one of them. And she called
me. Before she left Scientology, she called me and she said, I want to know what's true.
Right. And straw that broke the camel's back for her.
The incident with at the wedding of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes, where she asked, where's Shelly?
Where is shelly? Is David Miscavige's wife who's been disappeared
for more than a decade and nobody has heard from her or seen her?
Really? And she was at the wedding asking a bunch of people, hey, where she, I guess she was at the
table with, she was at the table and asked, asked actually Tommy Davis, who was the,
at that time he had taken over from me as the International Spokesperson of Scientology. And
he was like the handler for Tom Cruise. And she asked Tommy Davis. And that's when he famously
said, you don't have the fucking rank to ask. And that then resulted in her being ordered to come
to Clearwater and scrubbed toilets and undergo, that's what she was doing. Yeah. Undergo expensive
sec checking, which is interrogation on the Scientology emeter that she paid $300,000 for.
And then she never got answers and nobody would ever answer her. And that just sort of,
that's not a good thing to do with Leah. Not like, just, that is insane. When she gets onto
something, she just does not stop. And so she ultimately just said, you know what,
fuck you people, I'm out of here. I'm not, I'm not dealing with this anymore. You won't tell me the
truth. I'm not going to participate. And then this is after she gave $300,000. Yep. She got that back.
Oh really? Yep. How would you? Unusually? No. She went, David Miscavige tried to
handle her and part of his handling was saying, yeah, that was all a mistake that shouldn't
have been done. The people that did that were all bad. And here's, you know, I'm going to give you
your money back. Wow. Seems unlikely. It's very unlikely. It's very unusual. And it's only that
sort of treatment is reserved for celebrities in Scientology. Scientology celebrities get very
different treatment than the run of the mill suckers. Scientology, the celebrities get a discount,
right? No, no. Sometimes they get shipped for free, but they don't get a discount. They're
expected to pay. I mean, paying is, how much did you pay? Nothing. I was a Sea Org member. So I
get everything. Sea Org members. Sea Org members don't pay, but people who participate in Scientology
that aren't employees do pay. Yeah. The regular customers do pay. And you know, it's a strongly
held religious belief that you must pay for anything that you get in order to be in exchange.
And that if you're not in exchange, you want, you, no benefit will accrue to you from that which
you get for free. Okay. So, where do you think Susan is? Ms. Gavage's wife? Shelly? Oh, Shelly.
Her name is Shelly. Yeah. That's Michelle. Michelle. And that's Leah was questioning where she was.
Yeah. Do you have any ideas where she might be? Yeah. She's at a property that is one of these
secret church of spiritual technology locations that is up in the San Bernardino Mountains in
Southern California. In fact, one of the episodes of the aftermath, I went up there and this PI
jumped out of the woods and started like filming me and going, what are you doing here? She's being
held prisoner up there? Well, or like prisoner of belief. Prisoner of belief. It's the same thing.
You know, yes, there's barbed wire fences and cameras and lights and motion sensors,
et cetera, et cetera around that property just like there is at gold. And that is a way of
deterring people from trying to jump the fence or escape. But that's not what really keeps,
I mean, if you want to get out, you can't. And plenty of people have proven that. I mean,
Valerie Haney escaped in the trunk of a car from gold, from that property because she wanted to.
Who is Valerie? She appeared on the aftermath and she was one of David Miscavige's assistants.
Okay. Or Shelly Miscavige's personal assistant, actually. Wow. And so Shelly is there because
she believes that she is somehow in the wrong or was in the wrong, or perhaps she believes that
she is waiting for Elrond Hubbard to return still and that when he comes back, then everything
will be sorted out because she was with Elrond Hubbard long before David Miscavige ever showed up.
Was she? She was, when I arrived on the Apollo, Shelly was there and she was like 12 or 13,
I guess. And she and her sister, Clarice, were worked directly for Elrond Hubbard. They were
his messengers. They ran around the ship taking, Hubbard would say, go tell the engineer to, you
know, turn the heat on the the fans and they'd run down and tell the engineer. And so she was a
long-term, very loyal Hubbard acolyte. Okay. And I assume remains that way to this day.
Just like Hubbard's daughter, I mean Hubbard's eldest daughter is still there, Diana,
like all the rest of his kids, they're not in Scientology at all. They're all gone.
What do you mean they're gone? Are they still alive?
Well, two of them are. Okay. No, three of them. But two of them were in the sea organization.
You know, one of them was a very good friend of mine, Suzette, his second daughter. She was like
the maid of honor at my wedding to Kathy. And she left the Sea Org, oh, I don't know, long,
10 or 15 years ago, I guess. And the youngest son, Arthur, left the Sea Org a long time ago. And
the eldest son of Hubbard and Mary Sue Quinton committed suicide because he was gay.
And being gay in Scientology is a big no-no. And Diana is still there and is, I guess,
hoping that Hubbard will come back. God, I would freaking die to have a conversation
with one of his kids. Oh yeah, that would be great. Holy shit, to hear some of the stories
of the growing up, having him as a dad. Yeah, goddamn. So what is the grip here in Clearwater,
especially downtown Clearwater with Scientology, seems to be relentless. And it seems like Clearwater
cannot escape this tight grip of Scientology. It's been dead for so long. I know Scientology
owns a lot of the real estate around there. But what is the deal with, and there's people walking
up and down the street 24-7, who I don't know what they're doing and where they're going.
But what is the deal with Scientology and downtown Clearwater staying the way it is?
Well, Clearwater is what Scientology calls its spiritual headquarters. Clearwater is the
top of the Scientology spiritual organizational hierarchy. It is not the international management
of Scientology around the world. That happens in Los Angeles or in California. Clearwater is
the spiritual headquarters. But what that means is it's where all the money is made.
They make, you know, upwards of $2 to $3 to $4 million a week there. And it, because people
come from all over the world. Scientologists come from all over the world. From auditing?
Yeah. Okay. And ultimately, you have to come to Clearwater. If you're a Scientologist and you
want to go to the top of the Scientology bridge, you have to come to Clearwater. And all of the
whales of Scientology, that's their organization, the people that have unlimited funds, the Bob
Duggins of the world who have, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars. This is where they gravitate
to. So, real quick, I want to interject, sorry to interrupt, but there's this guy I wanted to
mention from, I think, South Florida. He's a real estate online, real estate guru,
and he posted a video on his Instagram. His name is Grant Cardone.
He's a complete lunatic. Is he? He's a con man. Grant Cardone is a used car salesman. And in fact,
when I was selling used cars, there were two guys that have videos and seminars for car salesmen.
One of them is Grant Cardone. He is like the, he's like, whatever, yeah, he's Grant Cardone.
Sales courses, right? Yes. Yeah. And, and investing other people's money and reets real estate and
what people can invest in to commercial real estate and get the benefits of it. Yeah. And
anyway, yeah, people like him, he, this is Clearwater is where he comes and where he gives
his money to. And this is a massive source of revenue for, it's the biggest source of revenue
for Scientology in the world, like this and everything else in Scientology doesn't add up
to the revenue that is stream of Clearwater. He posted this, this continuous Instagram story
throughout like a 24 hour period of him flying on his jet to Clearwater, taking a limo from
Clearwater to some pet house in Clearwater, like in downtown Clearwater. And then he filmed going
through that building on Fort Harrison and it looks like, like fucking Taj Mahal. It's a gold
plated everything. It's just so over the top. I never would expect it that the inside of that
building would have looked like that. Well, that's what happens when you've got unlimited money.
I mean, Scientology has so much money, they don't know what to spend it on literally. And it's
actually a problem for Scientology because they have exempt status. They are supposed to not
accumulate too much available cash. The theory of exemption is you're not going to pay taxes
because you're providing a benefit to the public that the government would otherwise have to provide.
That's the fundamental theory of tax exemption. That's why religious and educational organizations,
et cetera, are tax exempt because they are doing something that is for the public benefit and
the public good. So do they have to spend this money on certain things? They are supposed to.
They're supposed to, but they're not technically regulated. No, they're not regulated at all,
but they're worried about being regulated. And that's why you see Scientology spend so much money
on real estate. The only thing that Scientology spends its money on is real estate because
they can argue that this is necessary for the propagation of the religion.
Even though the buildings are empty, they've got this place over in Tampa that's empty. They've
got one in Orlando that's empty. They've got one in Miami that's empty. Huge buildings that they
spend tens, tens of millions of dollars to put together because they have to spend their money
on something. And so you see the inside of that building in Clearwater. It's because of that.
They got unlimited money. They've got $3 billion in cash and they have to figure out how to spend
it. So it gets spent on real estate. And the issue with Clearwater is that because there
is so much already invested in Clearwater by Scientology and because it is the revenue stream
that keeps the whole operation flush, it's going to be protected at all costs. And part of protecting
it is to build a perimeter around it that is not occupied by wogs. And wogs is the derogatory
Scientology term for non-Scientologists. They would like nothing more than all of Clearwater
downtown to be Scientology surrounded by a moat of nothing. So there's no one that can
be looking in on their buildings. There's no one that's pestering them. There's no one that's seeing
Alisa MacPherson freaking out in the window. There's no oversight, no intrusion of the outside
world into the world of Scientology. And that's why you see downtown Clearwater basically
owned now by Scientology. And I don't know how Clearwater is ever going to deal with it. The
only way that it could possibly happen would be for Scientology to lose its tax exempt status.
And then it wouldn't matter to downtown Clearwater. See, Scientology loves to claim
we're the largest taxpayers in downtown Clearwater. Yeah, that's true. You pay like
$2 million in taxes a year and if you were not exempt, you'd be paying $100 million in taxes
a year. They pay taxes on hotels, like spaces that they use for hotels, not the religious
buildings, but the hotels. So only the religious buildings are tax exempt. Yeah, but they claim
most of them are religious buildings. So that's what I mean. It's like maybe they pay one tenth
of what they would otherwise have to pay. But for some, for one reason or another,
because of their size, it still ends up being more than anybody else in Clearwater.
Yeah. I mean, there isn't anything else in downtown Clearwater really other than government
buildings. There's a Starbucks down there. Yeah. Well, that was brought there by me. That's about
it. Was it really? Me and Tom DeVarct. What? Because David Miscavige, that's a long story.
I walk into that Starbucks. You know what happens if I walk into that Starbucks, Danny?
What? All the customers leave. Why? Because all the customers in there are virtually all
of them are Scientologists. Really? Yes. If I walk down the street in Clearwater,
they're empty. What? They all know who you are. If I go to Nature's Food Patch, people like...
I love Nature's Food Patch. That's my favorite place, really. Follow them. Even that work there
or just the employees or just their customers? Mostly customers. Mostly customers. Yeah.
Lots of Scientologists. That is fucking wild, dude. Oh my god. We have to, can we do that?
Danny, I went to the movie theater, the 21 theaters on Tampa Road and Curleau, whatever
that is out there. The carb one? No. Anyway, I went to the movie theater. I walked in there with
my wife and actually it was to see Paul Haggis' movie, The Three Days or whatever it was.
Mm-hmm. I walked in there and in the front row were six Seog members.
I walked in, I sat down, they got up and left. They walked down on the movie because they did
want to be in the same theater as me. That is so bizarre, man. That is so fucking bizarre.
I have great power. You do have great power. You're a wizard.
I have the power of the SP. The SP.
Oh man. So where do you see this going in the future? I know we got to wrap up soon.
Where do you see the future of Scientology going in 20, 30, 40 years when David's miscavage is
eventually he dies and moves on? Someone else is going to take over. What's the future of Scientology?
Dim, it's going to continue to decline and erode. With that much money and that much property,
it takes a long time for something like that to go away entirely. I don't think that the subject
will ever totally go away because there will always be books and people that are like, yeah,
we know where we find this helpful and this not. But I think that within the next few years,
there will be a revisiting of the tax exempt status. When that happens, that will
effectively be the end because the organization can't survive with any scrutiny of where it's
spending its money. If Scientologists understood and knew how much of the money they give to Scientology
gets spent to pay high-priced lawyers, private investigators, smear sites on the internet,
and all the other shit that goes on, there was a lot of them that would just go,
you know, I can't participate in that. When it's happening in the sort of abstract,
they don't really know and they don't really have to look and nobody ever really tells them
what's really going on, then they remain willfully ignorant. Right, willfully blind.
As soon as the IRS required Scientology to provide tax returns and they would have to report on
where they're spending their money and what they spend their money on, oh, all hell would break loose
because they tell people that, you know, you have to give us money for Hurricane Blabla or the tornadoes
that just landed in Kansas City and they tell people all over the world that you have to give us
money for this because we're going to go help and they may collect $10 million and they will fly
a film crew and 10 people there and put them in yellow shirts, have them do a little work,
do a video of it, and then send it out and say, look, here's the great work that all of our people
did, now you need to give us more money so that we can do more work. If people actually saw how
little of the money they have given to Scientology got spent on the things that Scientology claims
it is spent on, they would stop giving money altogether. Wow. There's got to be a way that
someone out there is soon going to be able to prove all this with like hard evidence.
You would think it's going to happen sooner or later. Yeah. I can't believe it hasn't happened
already. I keep saying, look, if you want to do it, the smart way is how the FBI did it in 1977
because Scientology keeps incredible records. They keep records of everything and you want
to prove the case, go get the records. Yeah. Wow. Well, that was invigorating two hours. Thank you
so much for doing that. Tell the people listening and watching where they can watch and listen to
your new podcast and look at your website. Oh, well, the Daniel, the podcast is called
Scientology Fair Game. It's on iHeart podcast, but it's available on Spotify and Apple. I mean,
you can find it anywhere. Okay. My blog is called MikeRindersBlog.org. And then I created a website
called fairgamepodcast.com, which contains documents and links to each episode of the Fair
Game podcast. Okay. So when they're listening to the audio version, they can go on the website and
look at all the documents that you're referencing. Correct. Awesome. Cool. Mike Rinder, thank you so
much for your time. I hope to have you on again in the future. You're very welcome.
