What are you up to? You're a busy guy.
Well, yeah. I mean, I guess I've been sort of like talking about this book a lot, but
also looking for the next big stories in this whole weird hacker world.
Yeah. It's always fun for me to talk to people like yourself who are like established real
big time journalists. I'm used to talking to the small time independent YouTube journalists.
I mean, I've heard the people you have on. These sort of independent YouTube journalists
are often digging up the most interesting stuff and doing the craziest adventures.
So I feel kind of lucky that I have a pretty established establishment media job, but I
still get to go on these weird, down these strange rabbit holes and take time to do
investigations and books every few years. What got you interested initially
in this whole like crypto dark web hacker world? Yeah, let's see. I mean, I have covered this world
of cybersecurity and hackers and surveillance and the dark web and all of that for, I mean,
before the dark web even existed since like 2007 or so. And I came to it in this weird way of
I had tried to be a China journalist and then I went to journalism school and I found
that in journalism school, it's hard to find stories because you're just in school. You're
not out in the world. So I sort of turned to the internet instead and I don't know. I've always
been like the kind of reporter, I think, who looks for weird and geeky and strange
underworld kind of stories anyway. So that worked out for me and I got a job at Forbes Magazine.
And a few years into being Forbes is kind of hacker, cybersecurity, like internet underworld
reporter, which nobody really thought was even could be a job back then. I think that Forbes was
kind of like a little skeptical that that could even be a full time beat. I mean, I came upon
this phenomenon, which was described to me as a kind of like anonymous and potentially untraceable
sort of digital currency, which was Bitcoin. This was 2011 or so. And I'd been, I guess,
at that point, writing about this movement called the cypherpunks. I had written like a cover story
for Forbes about WikiLeaks and I was writing a book about WikiLeaks and the way that it came out
of this cypherpunk movement of these radical libertarians who believed that they could use
encryption to take power away from governments and give it to individuals like carve out spaces
on the internet, like the dark web essentially, where the government can't reach and where you
can do black market transactions and communicate in total secrecy. And that seemed to me to be this
incredibly sexy, fascinating world of where there were going to be like really dangerous,
interesting things happening for years and years to come. And so when I came upon Bitcoin,
it seemed to me to be the kind of like holy grail of that world. This is real crypto money now,
like not just secret communications, but secret financial transactions. And that's going to unlock
this and monetize this whole online black market. And shortly after that, that's when the Silk Road
appeared, the first dark web drug market that traded of course only in drugs, but for Bitcoin.
And it seemed to me to prove, yes, like this is working, like cryptocurrency,
we barely called it that at the time, but Bitcoin seemed to be unlocking and like
creating this flourishing new lucrative world where you could buy and sell and also put into
your body anything you wanted without government intervention. I guess, fast forward to 2020 or
so. I mean, that's a big fast forward. But by 2020, I began to realize how incredibly wrong
I had been about that, how in fact, it turns out that Bitcoin was the opposite of untraceable,
not just, I wasn't just like a little bit wrong about this, I was like completely incorrect.
And in fact, so were all of the people in those early days who had told me that Bitcoin was untraceable
or anonymous, including I should say the mysterious creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto, had advertised
Bitcoin in an email to the scriptography mailing list as like among other things like
in these bullet points sort of advertising it, Satoshi had written, participants can be anonymous.
And a lot of people believed that and the Silk Road certainly like thrived on that principle.
But by 2020, I could see that actually, if you could decipher, if you could crack the blockchain
basically, and find patterns in it, then actually you could trace Bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies,
almost all of them in fact, in some ways far more easily than you can trace transactions
in the traditional finance system. And that in fact, you know, took me a while to realize this,
but years earlier, the small group of detectives, first in the research world and then in the tech
industry and then in law enforcement had figured this out like long before I had, and had used
cryptocurrency tracing as this kind of incredibly powerful investigative technique
to surprise that whole dark web underworld and take down one massive criminal operation
after another and this like escalating spree of busts. So, you know, that is like how I came,
you know, I did this sort of like strange path from being really fascinated by the potential of
the anonymity and untraceability of the dark web to realizing that like that untraceability had this
fatal flaw. And that actually created an even more interesting story, which is the story of this
latest book that I've published, Tracers in the Dark. Now, when Bitcoin first was released,
you were still working for Forbes? Or were you? Right. Yeah. You're still working for Forbes.
Okay. And when it first came out, I remember, I remember you mentioned in your book that you
interviewed or you attempted to interview Satoshi Nakamoto, but you interviewed somebody else.
Well, the person that I first found out about Bitcoin from and this is like back when Bitcoin
was worth a dollar. And, you know, I wrote the first print magazine piece about Bitcoin for Forbes
and I called it, I called the headline of that piece was cryptocurrency. And I thought that I
was clever even like coming up with that phrase. It wasn't like a thing anybody had had heard of.
And the first person that I had heard about it from was Gavin Andreessen, who was kind of the,
you know, one of the big early Bitcoin developers had worked closely with Satoshi Nakamoto,
but only communicating with him or her, whoever Satoshi is by email. I mean, you know,
Satoshi's identity remains one of the great mysteries in the history of technology.
Who do you think he really is? Or is it like a group of people? Like if you were to just,
if you were to speculate, like I know you don't know, but if you were to have some
like dying guess, who would you say it was? Oh, man, you know, I have almost like
tried to stop thinking about it because I have, I have gone down that particular rabbit hole
multiple times. I once thought that I had found Satoshi when in fact, I thought once thought
that Satoshi was Hal Finney, the second ever developer of Bitcoin, who actually received
first Bitcoin transactions from Satoshi. They worked together early on. Hal Finney, sadly,
died of ALS, Luke Derrick's disease, was paralyzed and passed away around 2014.
But I interviewed him on his deathbeds. He was fully paralyzed, could only
communicate with me with his eyebrow movements and with like typing through his eye movements,
which was very painful and slow. But he denied being Satoshi and he's, his family showed me
some evidence that he was not. They showed me some of his communications with Satoshi
that would have been quite hard to fake, you know, retroactively. I looked at,
there are other reasons I should say that like, I came to believe that Hal Finney was not lying to
me when he said that he was not Satoshi. But I thought at one point that I had found Satoshi,
then I once thought that I had found him in another guy. Craig writes a really wild story
that I truly don't want to talk about anymore because he, Craig Wright, I think, I think,
I don't want to get sued by him as he has sued many people, but I do not believe he is Satoshi.
And the fact that I feel like I fell there for a strange trap that like somebody was trying
to convince perhaps like investors or somebody that Craig Wright was Satoshi created a bunch of
false documents. Somebody else unwittingly leaked those documents to me. Anyway, long, crazy story.
Well, the reason I ask is if there's anybody on this planet who knows who it is, it's got to be you.
No way. I mean, well, I, I would think that like, if anybody knows, it might be some of the characters,
you know, in my book who have done these incredible tracing, you know, investigations,
but I never heard from them that they had figured it out. I think if anybody knows,
it would be the NSA, who, you know, for whom like almost anything digital is like,
you know, that's their territory and they have incredible surveillance powers. I'm kind of surprised
that like, it hasn't come, I mean, not kind of, I'm very, it's amazing that it hasn't come out in,
you know, more than a decade now, even from like some former intelligence person or who knows what,
like even intelligence agencies have not been able to figure out who Satoshi is. That just seems like
so uncanny. I mean, I don't, I still, I think sometimes that it had to have been a group
because it's just Bitcoin worked so well. And it, you know, the smartest hackers that I know,
you know, kind of would like examine it and think that they might have found a vulnerability.
And then, oh, that's a dead end. Like somebody thought of this ahead of me. And like that,
I heard that enough times that it's like, that's just so difficult for one person to,
to create on their own. But if it were a group, that also just creates a secrecy problem. I mean,
you know, like, I don't know, two, two people can keep a secret if one of them is dead, right?
Exactly. So, like, I just don't know what to think anymore. And I've just driven myself crazy
enough trying to figure it out that I, I'm ready to leave that one mystery. In fact,
I kind of appreciate that, that there is one mystery left in the world, even on the internet,
you know, and, and I should say that like Satoshi said in that initial cryptography mailing list
email, participants can be anonymous with cryptocurrency. I think that like,
that has proven to be true, but only for Satoshi himself. Like Satoshi has remained anonymous,
even while amassing a million Bitcoins. Because there was only one transaction, right?
Well, because he received them from mining, mining Bitcoins, and then never spent any, he like,
I guess he's sent some to people in test transactions, but mostly he just sat on his gigantic
multi-billion dollar fortune with like inhuman restraints, you know. I think some people even
believe Satoshi might be dead himself or herself or what are their themselves because who sits on
tens of billions of dollars like that. But yeah, I mean, but, but I guess the other half of that
point I was trying to make is that everybody else, essentially, who's tried to be anonymous
with Bitcoin over the years, practically speaking, has been unmasked at some point,
thanks to this surprising trait of cryptocurrency that actually you can trace almost everything
that happens on a blockchain. That was like the real, you know, dramatic irony of this whole thing,
is that cryptocurrency turned out to be this kind of trap, I think, for people seeking financial
privacy and for all sorts of criminals who were lured in to this, to this, you know,
honeypot, essentially, thinking that they could get away with every manner of crime, like, you know,
dark web drug sales, massive thefts, money laundering, eventually, you know, the book tells
stories of essentially human trafficking or like child sexual exploitation stuff. And so many of
them have been caught on like a gigantic scale, thanks to the fact that the blockchain actually
turned out to be this massive collection of evidence of every transaction they ever did,
if you know how to kind of crack that code. Now, some of the stuff that you mentioned in
your book Tracers in the Dark, which is amazing, by the way, like the story of the Silk Road and
the story of Ross Ulbricht and, you know, the Alpha Bay story, a lot of people are familiar with
these stories, but I feel like not a lot of people understand how these things went down and how the
how law enforcement was able to track these guys down. Yeah, you know, and I feel like that's
something that is one of the biggest revelations in your book. It really does a great job of
explaining exactly how this was done. Thank you. Yeah, I mean, for the Silk Road, you know, I had
like this weird perspective on it because I interviewed the Dread Pirate Roberts before he,
the creator of the Silk Road who went by the suit of them, the Dread Pirate Roberts, this like
first dark web drug kingpin. I interviewed him myself before he was caught, before he was identified
and like turned out to be this 29 year old guy, Ross Ulbricht in Texas. Was the guy you
interviewed, sorry to interrupt, but when you interviewed Dread Pirate Roberts, are you sure
that was Ross or was it, could that have been somebody before him? It's a fair question. I
think it was Ross. I think that like, you know, I've turned that question over a lot of times
since then. Of course, when I spoke to the Dread Pirate Roberts or just didn't speak to him, I said,
by the way, I said he was caught in Texas. He was caught in California, but he's from Texas.
And when I communicated with him, that was over, the Silk Road anonymous messaging system,
just want to be really clear, like I was exchanging text messages over the Torah anonymity system with
him, basically. So you never know exactly. And I got the impression just sometimes, I think I
interviewed him for like four or five hours. And I got the impression that he was maybe even
consulting with somebody as he, as he talked to me, like he would take a while with some answers.
And I know that the Dread Pirate Roberts had this kind of second in command who called himself
Variety Jones. And based on like, covering his trial, Ross Ulbricht's trial,
eventually Ross Ulbricht's laptop, by the way, was seized with all of his chat records on it.
He tried to, he had full disc encryption on his laptop. And if he'd just been able to close the
lid of it, he could have protected all of that evidence, which I think made him kind of over
confidence in how much, how much he could store on that laptop. But the FBI in this
lab, its thing operation in the San Francisco library grabbed his laptop out of his hands
with an undercover agent, got everything. So you could see his conversations with
Variety Jones and all of the other people working for him in his chat logs, which is crazy that he
kept those. And, and you could see the Variety Jones at one point suggested this idea, like call
yourself the Dread Pirate Roberts. Then if you're ever caught, you can tell this whole story, you
know, like from the princess bride, the movie, which where that name comes from, that that's just
the kind of rotating handle that like, it's inherited by one kingpin of the Silk Road after
another. And you can say like, you acquired it from somebody else who created it, and then,
and then pretend to be the person who created it, but then sold it. And then that'll cover your
tracks. I mean, it was really brilliant, honestly, like as cover stories go. So
you can actually see the Dread Pirate Roberts, probably Ross, I think almost certainly Ross
doing this in my interview with him where he says, actually, no, I didn't create the Silk Road.
I bought it from its creator. And that seemed to be laying the groundwork for the defense he
actually would use in his trial, which is that Ross Ulbricht, you know, in court said, I just
created the Silk Road as an economic experiment, then it was bought from me by the Dread Pirate
Roberts. And like the real criminals who ran the Silk Road and turned it into this giant narcotics,
you know, bazaar, tricked me in the last minute into coming back and running it again just before
I was caught. You know, it's kind of like, it's a bit of an unlikely story, not just a bit. It
was a pretty weird defense. And it kind of fell apart when this is a big surprise, a trial.
The prosecution put a guy on the stand who had traced all of the Silk Road's transactions on
the blockchain and showed that for it's basically for years, money had been flowing
Bitcoins from the Silk Road server to Ross Ulbricht's laptop. So he was in charge of it
for all of that time, including the time when I, or he least was like reaping the profits from it
all of that time, including when I interviewed the Dread Pirate Roberts. You know, this, I
I know a lot of people, you know, are really skeptical of these stories. I have tried to
apply as much skepticism as I can as well to this notion that Ross Ulbricht is the Dread
Pirate Roberts or the only Dread Pirate Roberts. A lot of people are particularly skeptical. I
just want to air this out like right away, like about the claim that he had people killed, right?
And say like he was never actually charged with that crime in court, which is true. And that is
he was charged with like, you know, this kingpin statute of kind of like a general,
you know, running of a massive criminal enterprise and conspiracy and things. But he was not charged
in the case that was actually brought to trial with murder, even though he's accused of like
having paid for the killings of one of his employees and like people who he thought threatened the
Silk Road and scammed him and stuff. I was skeptical of that too. And I think that in all
fairness, that absolutely should have been tried in court, given that now he is serving this life
sentence. Yeah, he's serving the same sentence as El Chapo. Is that right? I mean, it's a life
sentence. Like it's the maximum double life. Yes, double life, you know, and
may never see the light of day again. And I think that that is unjust. Just to be clear, I think
that's a crazy over sentencing, especially given that he was not actually convicted of murder or
attempted murder or conspiracy to commit murder or anything. But the same day that in his trial,
which I attended like every minute of it in Manhattan courtroom, like the same day that like
the prosecution showed that they could trace the Silk Road cryptocurrency from the server to his
laptop, they could also they also showed transactions from his laptop to a would be contract
killer for the these alleged murders, you know, and there were times exactly right. They were the
exact amounts you could see his chat logs, where he's saying to like somebody he thought was a
Hell's Angel who was going to do these killings for him. Okay, here's the money. And then you see
it on the blockchain. So and I can see those transactions myself. I don't even have to depend
on like a source to tell me that I can look at the blockchain and see that stuff. That's the power
of cryptocurrency tracing. I mean, it's and Ross, I'm sure thought that these transactions were
untraceable and anonymous. And it's the opposite. Like I, a journalist can can look at the receipts
basically, you know, on the blockchain. So don't you have to know his wallet address though?
Right. So and those did come from the prosecution to be clear. But they were, you know, they were
aired out. And those were those were shown in court. The defense had a chance to say no, those
are not his addresses. And they did not, you know, so it's like, you have to start doing some really
convoluted thinking to imagine that a Ross was not the Dread Pirate Roberts. When I interviewed
the Dread Pirate Roberts, and be even that he didn't try to have these people killed, like I am
extremely sympathetic. I'm not extremely, I guess I'm, I would say I'm more sympathetic to Ross
Albrecht than just about any journalist who's covered these stories. I, I thought that the
Silk Road was an interesting experiment trying to reduce violence in the drug trade, you know, by
moving it into this virtual world, basically. And I thought that Ross was like an interesting
principled person who collected ultimately millions and millions of dollars in drug money
and never spent it and really believes in what he was doing as a kind of like
political experiment. He saw himself as a revolutionary who was launching this like
idealistic thing on the in a new world, you know, online. But I think that it's a story about kind
of corrupted ideals of how Ross, despite his best intentions, was pulled into a situation
where he felt like he had to do extremely dark and immoral things to protect the experiment
that he had begun, you know. And that is tragic. But like, I don't, I do believe that Ross tried
to, that Ross did those things that Ross did run this massive drug trade for better or worse.
Some people, I think, probably still think that that was a good, a good thing. And then other,
you know, and then I also think that he actually tried to have people killed, which is hard to
defend. The interesting thing about the Silk Road, too, is, you know, the debate, was it, was it a
good thing or was it a bad thing? Because obviously, talking about laws, it was illegal. But if you
look at the way it worked, you have drug dealers and you have drug buyers, and the drug dealers are
reviewed on how good their product is. And then sometimes, and then some of those interviews
with the drug dealers on that deep web documentary, they're talking about like,
you know, I wouldn't sell, I could tell this guy was a newbie or a rookie. This guy had never
bought shit on here before, and he was trying to buy these drugs. And I know that these drugs are
probably way too hard for him. So I said, go do your reading and come back to me when you're ready.
It seemed like there was at least some sort of code of ethics within that world. And people wanted
to, you know, you wanted to take care of your reputation and not sell bad drugs. And it seemed
like it was a net good. Yeah, you know, it's, it's a super fascinating argument. I do think that
there, you know, some people wanted to describe the Silk Road as like this evil underworld where
there was no good. That is definitely incorrect. You know, people described that there was child
abuse on the Silk Road. There was not, see, people said there were, there was contract killing
for sale on the Silk Road, which is not even true. Ross had to like go find his own contract
killers if that's, you know, what he, what he did. So, but I, but to say that it's a net good is
really difficult to say, like I just don't, I can see the good. I can see how like it's, you know,
for instance, there, there cannot be any violence in the drug trade. You can't get scammed. You
can't be, you can't even be sold as easily like fake drugs or laced, whatever, you know, stamped on
whatever because there's reviews and ratings. As you said, I mean, it was, it is an amazing thing.
If I was going to buy Ecstasy, like today, I would buy it on the dark web because, you know, I've,
I've been told that there's like fentanyl in everything, like all sorts of things.
When you buy them, whatever, in like the bathroom of some club. So like the Silk,
the Silk Road invented this new bottle of sales, you know, that was really smart and
accountable on both sides, you know, to the buy on the seller. It also like made really hard,
dangerous drugs available to people who otherwise would not have had them. I think in some cases,
I, I, as I said, like sat in the trial, I heard the parents of like people talk about their,
their kids, adult kids and young kids too, who overdosed on opioids and things that were bought
from the Silk Road. Some guy who had kicked the habit, he'd moved like somewhere, you know,
farther away from like a major city where he didn't think he would be tempted as much.
But then he learned about the Silk Road and he saw that like, it's still possible to, to,
to like scratch that itch and overdosed and died. You know, I actually don't think that like,
like the, it's, it's more the, I think a better argument. I don't really want to like defend
the judge in this case, who, who, who gave him this draconian crazy double life sentence.
But she in that sentencing hearing also like read this, this very long statement explaining
her sentence. And I thought it was really smart at points. She, she said, yes, you Ross, you did
reduce the violence in like one part of the drug trade, which is like the retail part,
like the buyer and the ultimate, the seller and the ultimate buyer, you know, at the very end of
that supply chain, basically. But if you go further up the supply chain, that's where the
real violence is happening in Mexico, in like Afghanistan or wherever, like, or wherever
these drugs are produced. And by expanding the market, by finding like a new way for people
to sell billions of dollars worth of drugs, you actually, you cut out the violence in one part,
but you expanded it overall and you did nothing about the violence further up the supply chain.
So you probably have added, you know, in sort in terms of like net
harm to the world, you know, and I think that that's a compelling idea that by finding like a new way
to expand just like the total volume of drug sales, you know, maybe you have, and of course,
like the people selling on the dark web have to have a supplier, right? You know, maybe you have
actually caused harm. You know, and Ross, I think that the answer, of course, is like, well, we
should have, we should legalize all these drugs. I am pretty sympathetic to those sorts of arguments.
Ross actually told me in our interview, or rather the Drexel Roberts did that he didn't believe in
drug legalization. And that that is only just like a new way for like the state to control these
things, to tax them. And as a sort of libertarian, he was, he didn't even want to see drugs legalized.
Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our sponsor, Verso.
Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed I am with health
and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on the show is nutritional scientist
and neuroscientist Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this stuff. Verso is a company
that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold a potential
to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate these zombie cells or old damage
cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie cells infect other healthy cells,
speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss, wrinkles, arthritis, cancer,
dementia, and everything in the realm of aging. What scientists have realized is that we can
manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie cells and replacing
them with new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a powerful blend of
synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes like autophagy and apoptosis,
promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation and natural cardioprotective
functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases. The three main ingredients
in clean being are spermedine, lutolyn, and dihydrocorsatin, which play key roles in the
control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth and proliferation, specifically when
it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function, skin health, vision, and the immune system.
Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order.
I linked it all below, now back to the show. He wanted just the black market underworld
to expand and take over everything, you know. So like lawlessness. Exactly, like total crypto
anarchy as like, you know, as cypher punks call it. Wow. You know, the thing about Ross's story is
most people I talk to, they just think of him as this Dalai Lama type character. You know, like he's
just this big, you know, idealistic savior of the world. It's fascinating that that's who you
talk to because, you know, like I would say that most of America, most of the media, not to like,
you know, cast dispersions on my colleagues, like think of the Silk Road as like, you know,
drugs, death, the dark web, like those are the headlines you see on like the cover of magazines
about Silk Road when at the time that Ross was arrested. So, you know, it's interesting. I've
tried to, to just like, sort of maintain my like mental independence on this and not be pulled
into either in either direction. I mean, you saw deep web where I was like, made by my friend Alex
Winter, who was I think really sympathetic to Ross. And oh yeah, you can tell at the end of that
with the interviews of him and everything. Yeah, at the end of the documentary. And I'm like, I think
I'm, you know, a degree or two more like in the middle or like whatever, just I feel like you've
got to look at what the Silk Road was worth and all. And it was fascinating. It did come from a
place of ideals, but those ideals were corrupted to some degree. And like, bad things happened.
And as they will, like in that world of narcotics sales, I mean, that's,
I think it would also is kind of like the, I don't know, like, the third season of the wire,
like Hamsterdam, you know, like, Hamsterdam was an interesting, maybe I'm like losing it.
I'm losing the wire. Whatever. But it was this basically like, you know, a part of Baltimore
in this story was like carved out and drugs were basically de facto legalized. And the result was
that like, the rest of Baltimore, like crime dropped hugely, but people overdosed and died. And
that was like in Hamsterdam, this one little neighborhood was a hellish place. And I think
that is in some ways like a very rough analogy of like, of what the dark web or what Silk Road
might have become if it was, you know, allowed to flourish. Right. I guess the question is,
you know, the two main things are people can choose to take some sort of crazy illicit drug
and kill themselves by taking too much or becoming addicted or falling down the,
falling down the rabbit hole. And, or on the other hand, you have, you know, people taking
shit where they don't know what it is and it's laced with stuff and you don't know what the
product you're getting is. Absolutely. I mean, I think that seems like the more dangerous.
Yeah. I mean, I think that the consumer experience of the dark web is way superior. Yeah. I mean,
like I have, I bought, I like for Forbes article, like even I bought drugs on the Silk Road,
and like it's an incredible experience. It was like amazing at the time anyway. And,
you know, people say like, Oh, is it cheaper? No, it's actually more expensive. But the premium
right that you paid was for the reviews and the ratings and this assurance that like you're
getting what you pay for. How did that work? What was that process like buying it? Like you got to
get in through the onion router, through tour. And then you have to, how do the, can you explain
the process of what it was like? And what kind of drugs did you buy? Well, I won't talk about what
drugs in total left in the dark web. But, but, but, but I, for Forbes, I mean, this was bizarre
that Forbes let me do this. And they actually like, I was going to do it as a sidebar and
in print in the magazine. And they were like, we can't publish that in the magazine, like
65 year old men read Forbes magazine. Like, well, you can, we'll put it online. But I just bought
like a gram of marijuana each from three different, the Silk Road and two of its kind of copycat
competitors at the time, just to show that what was possible. I mean, this was 2013 when that was,
that seemed pretty like interesting and edgy. I mean, people were like, had never heard of this
stuff. So you would, yeah, you would like buy bitcoins. I bought them from Coinbase and,
which was like kind of the easiest way to, the easiest exchange to use at that time.
$5 a coin. I can't remember. I mean, I think by 2013, it was like getting up into the hundreds,
eventually would hit like over a thousand that year before it's first, a big crash or not the
first crash, you know, but yeah. And then you fire up tour, the tour browser, as you said,
you like get onto Silk Road. And I think you could probably search the clear night, as they say,
like the normal web to find the URLs, which are these like long convoluted URLs that end in dot
onion, because these are like tour hidden services is what they were called at the time,
which is like a website that runs on this anonymity software tour. You run tour, they run tour,
you both kind of like put on, I mean, like the analogies, you put on like a blindfold,
you get like put into a van and like driven to a place where you can't be fault, you don't know
where you are, and you like meet in the middle so that nobody knows like where the server is
hosted, nobody knows where you are. It's completely anonymous on both ends. That's how tour, that's
the dark web works, basically. I mean, I guess like the real technology is that
your web traffic is basically triple encrypted in three layers. And then it's kind of like
bounced through three different computers run by volunteers in the tour network around the world.
Each of those computers can strip away like one layer of encryption, but not the others,
so that they can only see one step ahead. They can't like see around those blind corners to
the next computer. And so, after three hops, nobody can trace you from your origin to your
destination. And the server on the other side does the same thing. They also triple wrap there.
The tour stands for the onion router. So it's like this is called onion routing because it's
in layers. And that's how it works. Like you meet in the middle, nobody can trace each other,
and you pay for your drugs. And it goes into an escrow, which is very clever. The escrow is not
released until you've got your stuff and you finalize. You say like, okay, got my package. It was,
here's a rating, here's a review. I released the escrow and the seller gets their money.
That's one of the most sophisticated parts of it because the price of Bitcoin is so volatile.
And then how this escrow feature were. And not only that, but like, I mean,
the drive pirate Roberts like would cover, he created like a feature where he would cover
any like changes in the price due to volatility because dealers didn't like how volatile Bitcoin
was. So like, while the money was sitting in escrow, if it went up or down, he would like cover
the difference, which is just like such a smart financial innovation. Because, you know, drug
dealers are not trying to gamble or, you know, do speculative investment with their Bitcoins,
they're sitting in escrow, they just want their money. So like, that's, I mean, you have to give
credit to where it's due. The Silk Road was an amazing invention. I think like a few people
kind of realized how smart it was as a kind of financial innovation, not just like the combining
tour and Bitcoin, which were kind of the two big ingredients, but like the whole thing was just
so beautifully designed. And at launch, you know, I think hopefully we'll get into like a whole world
of follow ons, you know, copycats, innovation, evolution of this, you know, dark web drug
kingpins that followed in Ross's footsteps. Yeah. So this book, it seems like it's not
just something that you just decided to start on one day. This book seems like it's been part of
your entire career. It's just sort of like a summary of everything you've been following since
the inception of Bitcoin. Well, you know, I didn't intend to ever, you know, in fact, actually around
2014, I was like trying to write a book just about the Silk Road and how crazy that story was and how
at the time I thought that that book was going to be about how cryptocurrency is unlocking a new
world of crypto, anarchy and cybercrime. And I couldn't sell that book. Luckily,
like, I think because there had been like too much coverage of the Silk Road, too many other
people writing their books, Nick Bilton's book about the Silk Road is fantastic. But I'm lucky in
a way that I did not write that book because, as I said, like about, you know, seven, let's see,
like six years after that 2020 or so, I started to see, I mean, of course, I knew that Bitcoins
could be traced to some degree, like I covered this really closely. I thought, I think everybody who
in that smart, like, crypto cryptography world sort of could see that, yes, like,
oh, Bitcoin is not actually as anonymous as it's supposed to be from the beginning.
But it sort of seemed like if you were careful, if you never revealed your Bitcoin addresses
publicly, if you put your transactions through like, you know, a few hops of like moving it from
one address to another to another, before you spent it, if you used laundry services,
all these tricks, it seemed like you could make it pretty untraceable, pretty private.
Only in 2020, and did I start to see the Department of Justice
start crediting in their kind of announcements of major takedowns and busts and indictments
as one company, and they would say, they would thank Chainalysis, this one cryptocurrency
tracing firm. Just the fact that there was a cryptocurrency tracing company was, I sort of
knew about that, but I was like, oh, they're actually really active. They're kind of like,
they kind of have their hands in a ton of these cases. So were they, was Chainalysis, was their
sole premise just to work with the government and to help them trace these criminal activity,
or did they have some sort of other utility in the marketplace?
Well, the founder of Chainalysis is a fascinating guy. I mean, there's a few founders, but the
original guy who came up with the idea of a company, Michael Groniger of the Danish,
he's a fan of Bitcoin, and he believed in Bitcoin. But from the very beginning, he was like, no,
this is not anonymous or untraceable. There's a whole blockchain here. The blockchain is,
by definition, like a list of every transaction, every Bitcoin transaction ever. It's just between
addresses rather than any identity. So like these long convoluted like Bitcoin addresses
don't look like they have anything to do with an identity in the real world.
But he, and actually he was, he based a lot of his, his first software on the tricks that have been
published by Sarah Mikkeljohn, this researcher at the University of California, San Diego.
He saw that you could find patterns, he rather, you know, Sarah found and he like kind of took
this further, you could find patterns in the blockchain. And then he built a piece of software
that could essentially like implement these tricks to, to create clusters to show that like sometimes
thousands or even millions of addresses belonged to one person or service, and to follow that money
sometimes until it hit a cryptocurrency exchange where, you know, cryptocurrency exchanges where
you trade Bitcoins for dollars or vice versa, they have know your customer requirements under
US law. They have to have identity, identity, identifying information for their accounts.
But his idea in creating the first tool to trace cryptocurrency, which he called a reactor,
was that he would sell this to exchanges, to like Bitcoin exchanges. He'd worked, he had helped
to found another exchange. He was the CTO there, I think. And he left to create analysis in the hopes
of helping exchanges just know who their customers are, like help them understand, like help them
deal with these know your customer requirements, I think, in a kind of more automated way.
Like, you probably want to know if you're an exchange, if you're helping to cash out
dark web drug money, right? You know, at least like, you may not want to know, but, but like,
if the government is demanding that you know, this is an easy way to do it. So
that was his first like idea to pit, he pitched it to exchanges and eventually like a lot of them
did buy it, but his first customers to his surprise were law enforcement agencies. And he
actually was just like in San Francisco and was pitching this to exchanges. And then like he,
Fran was like, Oh, you should talk to this prosecutor who introduced him to
this agent with an IRS criminal investigations in San Francisco named Tigrin Gambarian,
who was in some ways like the central detective of the book. He was Tigrin was the guy who came
from Soviet Union. Yeah, he grew up in Armenia, but then in post Soviet Russia as well,
had like a very tough childhood there. I mean, like he truly like war torn Armenia.
And it's a very interesting character. Like IRS criminal investigations is a weird place. Like,
I don't think most Americans know about it even, but it's like this actual law enforcement agency
within IRS. And they, you know, I mean, they kind of have a chip on their shoulder about the fact
that people don't even know this, but they, they carry guns, they make arrests, they like
carry out search warrants, they travel around the world and like, you know, get people extradited
to be prosecuted in the United States and stuff. Like, you know, they are a full blown
law enforcement agency, but like get no respect from FBI and DEA or whatever. Tigrin. So Tigrin was
like, you know, a forensic accountant who carried a gun and like was kind of a like this weird mix
of like nerd and tough guy who also had looked at Bitcoin from the beginning and saw him also
like, there's this blockchain here. I don't believe this can be anonymous. I can see these
transactions. And, you know, his first, he was actually the first to ever show that it was possible
to trace Bitcoin within law enforcement. And this, this was not in the Silk Road case in the
traditional sense, but in the wake of the bust of Ross Ulbricht, which did not actually use cryptocurrency
tracing, he was identified through other mistakes he'd made. Tigrin Combarian basically like sat down,
looked at the blockchain and showed that a DEA agents and a secret service agent who were
involved in the investigation of the Silk Road had stolen money from the Silk Road in like as
corrupt cops, basically, actually, one of them had sold law enforcement information to the
Dread Pirate Roberts. One of them had stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoin
from the Silk Road. But they, these were two federal agents who in their own investigation of
the Silk Road had thought that they could use the, you know, the false promise of this, this fake
idea that Bitcoin is untraceable, that they could just take any money they wanted to, that they could
lay their hands on from the Silk Road and get away with it. And Tigrin was the one, Tigrin at IRS
Criminal Investigations was the one who sat down and showed, no, look, I can see that Karl Mark
Force, this DEA agent is receiving money from the Dread Pirate Roberts. Right. You know, like
nobody thought that that was possible in 2014 when he did this. Now as Karl Mark Force, is that one
of the guys who set him up with one of the first murder for hires? Exactly. I mean, that's, this
is such a bizarre story. But yes, like Karl Mark Force had gone undercover on the Silk Road, had
basically like pulled off this kind of amazing thing. He was not actually working with the New
York group of FBI agents who would eventually take down the Silk Road. He was, he was part
of this Baltimore task force. And they, you know, using him as an undercover agent did this crazy
thing where they set it up where Ross would have like a shipment of cocaine sent to one of his
employees. And Curtis Clark Green is his name. He was his grandpa in Utah. I mean, it's bizarre.
And, and then have him arrested. They had him arrested when he receives the cocaine shipment.
And then essentially flipped him and like Ross understanding that, that his employee had then
been arrested was like, okay, I guess we got to have this guy killed. And you can even see in the
chat logs with variety Jones is sort of second in command, where he kind of reluctantly comes to
this decision. And orders, he orders Karl Mark Force as the undercover agent is under his undercover
identity, who is, you know, at this point, like very close with, with the Dreadpiper Roberts,
he orders call he asks rather Karl Mark Force to have his employee killed. So it's actually
Karl Mark Force as an undercover, who is asked to kill Curtis Clark Green, bizarrely. And, and so
they, they stage his murder for the benefit of the Dreadpiper Roberts. They like take fake photos
of him being tortured and killed. And they use like Campbell soup to show the blood coming out of
his mouth. So one of the big things, one of the most interesting things to me about how they were
able to manipulate the Silk Road was these, these federal agents were able to so they were
rating these users home, they were like, somehow rating the people who were users on the Silk Road,
taking all their shit taking over all their ship and not arresting them because if they
arrested them, that would sort of tip off Dreadpiper Roberts that they could have that they could
flip. So they would purposely not arrest these guys who are working or a part of the Silk Road.
However, they would take over their identities on the Silk Road. Is that right?
I think that they, they managed this with the, actually the other group, the New York group,
managed this with one other of the Silk Roads employees, a woman, actually, who
Homeland Security Investigations agents working in that New York group did somehow identify
Silk Road staffer, convinced her rather than to avoid prosecution to give him her account.
And then he became an undercover operative, like working with the Dreadpiper Roberts. He never
became aware of that. He was, that was just like a successful kind of infiltration of the Silk Road
that was used up until up into the very moment of Ross Ulbricht's arrest. That undercover, you know,
agent was communicating with the Dreadpiper Roberts and like telling him, Hey, can you log
on to check out something? And then he logged on at this, at the moment that the FBI was there
with undercover agents ready to arrest him so that they could make sure his laptop was open.
Right. So yeah, there were like so many different things happening. The whole Baltimore thing
turned out to be like a total, you know, fails investigation. The Baltimore, all of that stuff
with the fake murder, everything was, didn't really get them any closer to identifying the
Dreadpiper Roberts. So going back real quick to, to when Carl Mark Force was talking to
Dreadpiper Roberts about Curtis Green, is that his name? And Dreadpiper Roberts basically said,
you know, we need to kill this guy. Was Carl Mark Force sort of like inciting him or like pushing
him down that path? Like, Oh, you got to be aware of this guy. You got to figure out what to do
with this guy. Or was it just, did it all come? You know, it, he was not from what I can see in
reading all of the conversations. It was really Variety Jones who was his second in command.
Ross was, was kind of like, I don't know, like I've never had anybody killed before. I mean,
the Dreadpiper Roberts, you can see this in his, and Variety Jones is the one saying like, you know,
if this were the Wild West, like this would be a hanging offense, you know, he's like,
honestly, if you can't do this, I'm not sure we can continue to work together.
He's really pressuring him. And then amazingly, he turns to an undercover agent to get it done.
In fact, the same undercover agent who, who arranged the whole situation. I mean,
it is like, that was just a lot Shakespearean, like coincidence is, but yeah. But this is like,
you know, all just, I just want to be clear, like, this story is told in American Kingpin. This is
like a crazy, the story of the Silk Road is insane. I almost found it like difficult to get through it
so that I could start to tell the new stuff, which is, which is that after all of that happens,
that's when Tigre and Gimberian showed that this bizarre Baltimore investigation was corrupt as
hell. And the way that he did that was by tracing bitcoins, which was not like something that anybody
had ever done before. And this has not really been like highlighted in that, in the Silk Road story
that like that is how these corrupt agents were found. They too, like Ross Ulbricht fell for,
they were seduced by this false promise of Bitcoin's anonymity. And not one, but two
of these Baltimore agents independently, they didn't even know about each other,
were trying to skim hundreds of thousands of dollars out of their work. They both went to
prison. And that was in some sense, like the beginning of this new era of cryptocurrency
tracing, like as this golden age of law enforcement investigation on the dark web.
And what year did this happen? What year did this happen?
So that was 2014, the same year that Chainalysis was founded by Michael Groniger. And then Michael
Groniger and Tigre and Meets in San Francisco, and they become this kind of odd couple. Chainalysis,
in fact, in IRS criminal investigations, become this partnership that uses cryptocurrency tracing
to just like carry out, you know, just go on a spree, like a bonanza of busts and takedowns over
the years that follow and like solving many of the biggest kind of unsolved cases in dark web
and just like racking up a huge number of arrests.
Yeah, it's like, when you were explaining, what's the woman's name again, who had shit
of warehouse and she was buying all this stuff from the Silk Road?
Yeah, that's Sarah Mickeljohn.
Sarah Mickeljohn, yeah, she was doing like this, like almost just taking these millions
and millions of wallet addresses and just like using patterns to sort of like place them in
certain buckets and figure out which ones go where and how was she like, what was her big
revelation? What was her sort of value to all of this?
So like this, I don't know, we're like, we're winding about a year now, flashing back. So
like 2013 is when Sarah Mickeljohn at UCSD was like, hmm, you know, she was a brilliant,
you know, cryptography researcher, but she had not really looked at cryptocurrency and she was
like, you know, I wonder if this stuff is as anonymous as people think it is. And she took
almost like this anthropological approach, like I wonder if I can just figure out
like what people are doing with cryptocurrency. Maybe I can just like figure out how many people
even are using it, which nobody knew really. And she was the one who came up with these
clustering techniques, basically like a few clever tricks to show like that, you know,
certain addresses all must belong to the same person or organization. Like one is if you know,
to spend bitcoins from an address, I don't know if you want to get into these like nerdy details,
you tell me when to stop, but like to spend bitcoins from a Bitcoin address, you have to have
the private key for that address. And so if you create a multi input transaction as it's called,
which like sounds complicated, but it's really just like sending bitcoins from lots of addresses
at once in one transaction, then you must control the private keys for all those addresses. That
means like you look at that multi input transaction and you say, oh, all these addresses must have
belonged to one person or to one service. And if you then like take that sort of felt like lens
and like look at the whole blockchain for every multi input transaction, you can immediately
start to create clusters that show, oh, I think like she showed like right away, there are maximum
half as many people here or services as there are Bitcoin addresses. She like cut the whole
blockchain in half. Right. And it's complex. Exactly. Yeah. And then like that's that's
that was trick number one, kind of like an easy one. Then she came up with her own like that. In
fact, that was something that was kind of like an open secret in the crypto world already at that
point. But then she came up with another one, which is like, that when you spend bitcoins
with many wallets, you basically cannot spend a fraction of the coins in an address, you kind of
like crack open the piggy bank, like the whole piggy bank of that address, and you send all the
coins to whoever you intend to like receive part of them, and then you get back change at a different
address. And that can make it like really difficult to follow the money because you don't know which
is the recipient address and which is the change address. But she realized, oh, well, the change
address very often is recognizable because it's the new address, the one that was just like created
to receive the change. The recipient address sometimes has been used before or it's old.
So, you know, with that algorithm, that like little trick, she applied that across the blockchain
and then could find like, oh, I can see like, here's like a fork in the road where everybody
else didn't know how to follow the money, but I can follow it. I can follow it to the change
address. And that still belongs to the first person sending the money. That's his address.
In fact, all of these change addresses are his address. I can sort of like follow this
wad of cash as it like, as bills are peeled off and handed to somebody and it keeps getting like
taken back by the spender and put in a different pocket, but it's the same wad of bills, you know.
And then eventually you see that that wad of bills like sent to a cryptocurrency exchange
to be cashed out. And there you can send a subpoena. She knows like the law enforcement agency can
send a subpoena to that exchange and identify somebody. So, like already she's like building
like powerful tricks to follow the money and identify people that were not, you know,
previously like obvious to anybody in this world. And then she also, as you said, started
doing these undercover transactions basically, where, you know, she would put money into the
Silk Road and take it out again. She never actually bought anything on the Silk Road, she says.
But like she could have, obviously. And doing those undercover deals, she can see which addresses
she's interacting with. And every time she does that, she can sometimes like say, oh,
this address belongs to the Silk Road. It's part of this big cluster. So that whole cluster is the
Silk Road. Now I've identified like a million Silk Road addresses. And I can see everybody
interacting with them. Each one of those is a drug deal. You know, that is so powerful.
And it was the first like real like massive hole blown in this myth of Bitcoin's anonymity.
That paper came out in late 2013. Tigering Iberian read it before he traced these two corrupt agents
money. Michael Groninger read it before he built a tool that like automated all these tricks,
you know, and started selling that to law enforcement. So that's like the true kind of
you know, a hot moment. Like this is possible. And then soon chain analysis was the one that
really built it into a company. I mean, it's very interesting, I think, to see that Sarah
Mikkeljohn did not like become a professional cryptocurrency tracer or work with law enforcement.
And that part came out of her ambivalence about the like morality of this or like,
is it really a good thing that cryptocurrency can be traced? She saw it as, you know, as financial
surveillance. And she like, I think in a really legitimate way, like believes that, that there
are good uses of financial privacy, that that is important. Cryptocurrency was meant to be an
antidote to like, to financial surveillance in the traditional finance world, where every credit
card transaction you ever make is like, extremely transparent to companies and governments who want
to get that data. For Groninger, there was obviously money involved. Yeah. So you asked me too about
like Groninger's motivations. But I never quite like spelled it out. He, he saw it really differently.
He was like, well, no, cryptocurrency was never meant to be private. You can look at like, this
is whole blockchain, like, nobody could have ever had like, any idea that it was private,
which I think is not exactly right. I think Satoshi did think that it was meant that it could have
that had privacy properties that were important. But he was like, this is this whole idea that
it was anonymous, you can, it was just not there in the technology from the beginning. And the great
thing about cryptocurrency, according to Michael Groninger, is that it's transparent and you can
see everything. And that's what's going to make this great. And we're going to like, you know, kind
of fuel that we're going to show how transparent it is by selling this tool that will allow anybody
to trace not anybody, but his customers to trace cryptocurrency transactions. And we're going to
clean up the wild west of the crypto world and make it legitimate and, you know, respectable
and legal. That's, that's how chain analysis sees these things.
So when Groninger started first working with Gambarian, what was sort of the first big case
they started working on trying to crack? So Groninger, before even meeting Tigran, Tigran
Gambarian, had taken on this, this first case for chain analysis kind of pro bono on behalf of
Mt. Gox, or actually the bankruptcy trustees of Mt. Gox.
So for people that don't know, can you explain what Mt. Gox was?
Yeah, Mt. Gox was the first Bitcoin exchange. For a long time, it was the only one. And like,
I tried to buy like $40 worth of Bitcoins from Mt. Gox when Bitcoin was worth a dollar. Like,
and when I was working on my story about Bitcoin for Forbes, and it was like buggy and
the transaction did not go through. And I like gave up and I, you know, probably lost millions
and millions of dollars by not buying those Bitcoins at a dollar. But the Mt. Gox, you know,
as buggy as it was, and it was kind of like always considered a little janky, it was the only way
to buy and sell Bitcoins for years. Was there a big like criminal conspiracy that went down?
There's a guy who lives like two hours south of here, who was like largely involved with Mt.
Gox and he went to prison. There was a big investigation. What the hell is his name?
He has a podcast. I don't know. I'm trying to think of who that could possibly be.
He's got glasses. Fuck, he lives in Sarasota.
Is it the original creator? I don't know. I don't want to sit and take a guess at who went to prison.
I got to look at his name. I know, you know, I know who you know that this guy is.
Charlie Shrem. Oh, Shrem. Yeah, of course. Charlie Shrem. Yeah.
Wasn't he involved with Mt. Gox? I don't think he was. Okay. Yeah. Charlie Shrem.
Yes. It's an interesting guy. I met Charlie in New York like around the time I started covering
Bitcoin. He was a really nice guy. I can't remember what his first company was.
I think it was like a payment process or something for cryptocurrency. It turned out,
you know, I don't know the details of his case that well, but I think he was essentially,
he was accused, I think, of working with the Silk Road to launder money, basically. I think that's
what he went down for. But he's out of prison. I didn't cover Charlie's, I can't remember the
details of his case that well. I did cover some of it, but it's been years. I don't remember the
details either. All I just remember, I remember him being associated with Mt. Gox somehow.
Well, everybody was kind of. I mean, Mt. Gox was the only game in town for years. It was the only
way to get cryptocurrency. And I remember I actually was going to write a, I wanted to write
like a big feature about Mt. Gox for Forbes, like look at this, you know, look at this massive
business at the center of Bitcoin. And people warned me like, don't do that. That's this place
doesn't, this place is shady. It's not going well. Like they just don't know what they're doing.
And then in 2014, sure enough, like Mt. Gox went bankrupt. Like suddenly just had lost
everybody's Bitcoins, just froze all withdrawals. And they said that they had been hacked.
A lot of people didn't believe them. A lot of people thought like, oh, the
Mark Carpellus, this kind of weird, eccentric French CEO living in Japan had stolen all the
money. That's what people thought. And Michael Groniger agreed to take on the case on behalf
of the bankruptcy trustees in Japan for Mt. Gox and figure out where all of the missing Mt.
Gox money had gone through cryptocurrency tracing. And this is like half a billion dollars of Bitcoin.
At the time, I mean, much more now. And he basically, just to cut the story short,
like he traced that money to another Bitcoin exchange. He showed that it had been stolen
by hackers, essentially. And that it had not been embezzled by Mt. Gox, his own staff.
He actually showed that it seemed to have been taken by people in Russia's time zone,
was his first clue. And then it had been cashed out through another cryptocurrency exchange,
like a newer one called BTCE, that had by that point, this reputation as a kind of black hole
of money laundering. Like Mt. Gox would follow anti-money laundering laws, like you have to
get people's identifying information to cash out their money. BTCE was this mysterious exchange
hosted like nobody knew where, by whom. And it had no know your customer anti-money laundering
requirements. So it had become like this magnet for all kinds of criminal cryptocurrency,
including it turns out, it had cashed out, it had been used to launder the half billion dollars
of stolen Mt. Gox money Michael Kroniger showed. So at the same time, Tigering Gumbarian was
investigating BTCE because it looked shady as hell. And he had taken on that case.
And so their cases kind of converged again in this bizarre way. And like, it turned out Tigering
through like other investigative means, not cryptocurrency tracing, but like more traditional
law enforcement stuff, tracing like IP addresses and seizing the BTCE server, which turned out to
be in Virginia, was able to show that the same person cashing out all those Mt. Gox coins into
BTCE was also one of the creators of BTCE. That in fact, BTCE had been created, this whole cryptocurrency
exchange had been created just as a way to launder the loot from this giant heist of Mt. Gox. And
then once the creators of BTCE had created this kind of trading platform to launder this half
billion dollars, they were kind of like, well, we might as well keep it running. This is actually a
profitable business. And BTCE became like, you know, started laundering all these other kinds
of cryptocurrency from criminals around the world. But it was all the same. It was like
BTCE, the creator of BTCE, one of them, and the sort of money man for the Mt. Gox hacking operation
were one guy and they showed that it was this Russian man, Alexander Vinik. And
he, they had to keep that secret for years, but he eventually went on vacation and Greece
was arrested. Prison time in France has now been extradited to the US and is facing trial here. So
I should say like, I guess he's, you know, innocent until proven guilty on some of these charges,
but he was convicted of money laundering in France. So, but that was like the first
major case where they solved this biggest mystery in cryptocurrency at the time,
like this missing half billion dollars. They basically vindicated the CEO of Mt. Gox who
was thought to have taken that money. They showed that it really was a Russian hacker who'd taken
it more or less. And they took down BTCE, which turned out to be kind of this treasure trove of
tracing also because once you have that server, that would be like, they later turned out to be
this wealth of information about who was cashing out money. They could get
sometimes IP addresses and things from that server and, and like learn about some of the
people who thought that they were anonymously cashing out stuff through this, this completely
like black market exchange. But that was kind of the beginning of this like golden age of cryptocurrency
tracing where IRS criminal investigations and chain analysis and eventually DEA, FBI, everybody
has used this massive like once kind of secret technique to, as a super weapon,
to just like go after the biggest criminals on the dark web and end in that whole world of
like the internet's undergrounds, basically. So Vinik was a Russian guy. It's so wild. Is he
got, is he the guy who was a former credit cards gamer too? I, I've been told that like he has a
past that he was sort of known. You know, I didn't want to like, I guess I, this is all a little
thin because I have only heard it from like a couple people and I don't see it in
court records or anything. But he is sort of, he, I was told, you know, allegedly, I guess he had a
history as a credit card fraud and money man, like the one who would do the laundering once you,
who would help you cash out basically. And, and so I think you might be thinking though of Alexander
Kaz, who was like the real credit card fraudster, who becomes like a massive like dark web kingpin,
you know, we can get to that. Yes. Yeah. No, because I've had, I've had a credit card scammer
on here before and he was telling me, you know, when he was in his peak of, you know, buying
these credit cards and manufacturing these fake phony credit cards and basically uploading people's
money onto them, he said that everyone he was doing business with was in Ukraine.
Yeah. And Ukraine is like a hotbed for this kind of stuff. I think that Ukraine
is not like a great place to do this stuff anymore because Ukraine has, I mean,
Ukraine has corruption problems and there's no doubt, but like Ukraine has become, you know,
it's sort of shifted its, its alliances and is more cooperative with Western law enforcement
than it maybe used to be. Now, Russia, but I mean, not now, but Russia remains behind the kind of like,
I was going to say Iron Curtain, it feels like rude to kind of like anachronistic to say that,
but like, there is like a barrier though, like you can get away with so many kinds of cyber
crime, ransomware, like dark web drug, whatever dark web cyber crime of all kinds, like beyond
that border with total impunity. That's what Alexander Vinik was. You mean from inside Russia's
border? Oh yeah. Yeah. Right. But Alexander Vinik made the mistake of traveling, you know,
to Greece and like these kind of undercover agents like closed in on him on this beautiful
Greek beach and arrested him. Like, and like that, and that, yeah, was like a rare instance when one
of these like massive criminals of the Russian underworld was actually like laid hands on. I
think I'm sure that like, these stories kind of resonate within that world and they're learning
like do not go on vacation to Greece, you know. Yeah. But yeah, like, should we get into Alexander
Yeah. So explain it. When did Alpha Bay first come on the map and what was Alpha Bay? Was it
basically just a reaction to Silk Road going down or was it like it was obviously way bigger than
Silk Road? But was it essentially the same thing? Well, yeah, I mean, it's interesting. We had the
whole conversation about like the ideals of the Silk Road. And you know, and in fact, like when
the judge in Ross Albrecht's case sentenced him to life, double life in prison, she was trying to
send a message like don't follow in this guy's footsteps. That did not work. Like, in fact,
it just brought more attention to the Silk Road and, you know, created more copycats. And then
like subsequently, like, there was just this power vacuum that was filled by one dark web
market after another, each kind of like vying for supremacy. But then, and a lot of them would just
wear, you know, scammers, they would just like get big enough and then steal everybody's money
and run away. That's called an exit scam. It happens like a couple of times. Some of them
just disappeared. A couple of them were taken down by law enforcement because they made like
some mistakes. But then, yes, like Alpha Bay came on the scene and did not go away. It launched in
2014. But by like 2016, it was not only the biggest dark web markets, but the biggest dark
web market in history. It had like surpassed the peak of any previous market. And part of it's a
part of what made it kind of like stick in that way was that its founder, this mysterious kingpin
named Alpha O2, went by Alpha O2 was, as you said, a credit card fraudster, a known credit card
fraudster with a reputation who had like sold a guide to credit card fraud even online. And so
Alpha Bay initially just sold credit card hacking tools, sold stolen credit card information.
It was like a cyber crime market. But then Alpha O2 sort of innovation was to combine that with
the narcotics dark web, which is actually much more profitable. And so Alpha Bay became this
like one step shop for like stolen hacking tools, sorry, stolen hacked information, hacking tools.
You could like search for like very specific stolen credit cards in your area to like better
to fraud people or whatever. And then it also had, you know, heroin and fentanyl and everything
imaginable on the drug side. And it did grow eventually to be 10 times the size of the Silk
Road. And Alpha O2 was like this kind of like mysterious and seemingly untouchable
kingpin of this growing drug web market.
Did he have like a public persona like Dreadpower Roberts did or like this mystique about him?
Yeah, this was what was interesting. Like, you know, he first of all had no ideals. It was pretty
clear. He was a criminal who just wanted to make as much money as possible through Alpha Bay.
And as soon as Alpha Bay started to become giants, he kind of like, instead of like
the way that, you know, the Dreadpower Roberts behaved was like,
he was this political leader of a movement, he would post these manifestos and love letters.
And he did an interview with me and like, you know, and he had like a Dreadpower Roberts
book club where you would read about like Austrian libertarian economics and stuff.
And this guy was like a real gangster.
And this guy, yeah, he just like once he once he was making millions and millions, he
he just slipped into the shadows. He actually changed his name from Alpha O2 to just admin.
He said like, I'm not going to, I will no longer be like communicating with
with customers or sellers on Alpha Bay. You can talk to my right hand man, you know,
who is D Snake, which is like extremely to me, that's like a real criminal.
That's like somebody who is smart and just motivated by survival and money.
Completely take, take ego out of it, right?
Yeah, exactly.
It turned out he was kind of like getting his like ego outlet elsewhere.
We can talk about that in a minute.
But like it and also he would sign off his messages before he disappeared,
basically with Russian language, like, like he would write,
be safe brothers in Russian at the end of his messages.
There were rules for Alpha Bay.
I mean, there were very few rules.
There were none of the Silk Road rules about only victimless crime, that kind of thing.
But there was one rule that you could only sell hacked information if it didn't come from
Russians or former Soviet countries. So like there was it seemed like it was this tradition,
like this is very common with Russian cyber criminals.
There are rules to prevent Russian law enforcement from coming after you.
And you just target the West. And that way you say you kind of don't shit where you sleep,
so it was a sign that everybody thought Alpha O2 and Alpha Bay were in Russia
and that they might truly be beyond the reach of Western law enforcement.
This was going to be like the one that will never, as I talk to agents and prosecutors,
they would say like, this is not, this might be like the untouchable one.
One of them called him like the Michael Jordan of the dark web.
Like what if he's just perfect?
What if he's just so good at this that we'll never catch up with him?
It's not like, you know, it's not going to be the same story as with Ross Ulbricht.
Yeah, but they, around that time, this was like late 2016 when Alpha Bay was truly
taking off and growing into this unprecedented like giant bizarre drugs and crime.
That is when a tip came into the DEA in Fresno that was basically this email address.
And it turned out that in Alpha Bay's very first days online, before anybody was paying
attention to it, its user forums, when you signed up, you would get a welcome email
and that welcome email contained the email address pimp underscore Alex at Hotmail,
pimp underscore Alex underscore 91 at Hotmail.com.
And somebody like this one anonymous source had recorded, had kept that email.
This, that, you know, that email leak was fixed very quickly, but this source had like
held onto that email for years, more than two years, and then sent it to this DEA agents in Fresno.
And that was the, by like kind of following that email address, this DEA agent and the
prosecutor in that office, whose name was Grant Rabin, the DEA agent has asked me not to like
talk about his name, but he, but they found that other places and were eventually able to show
that belonged to Alexander Koss, this French Canadian guy, pimp Alex 91, like the 91 is his
birth year. He was really young. And he, they could see like through his
family's social media, his like in-laws, social media posts, really, that he was a web developer,
but he had moved to Bangkok. And, and like his, his, he married a Thai woman and her family had
like posted photos of him with a Lamborghini, his, he had like a villa in Phuket and stuff. And he
sort of posed as like a early cryptocurrency investor and web developer who just had this
money from like buying in early to Bitcoin. But they had, you know, their first lead that he was
perhaps Alpha O2. And it was a pretty, no, it was like a strong lead, but they almost like
didn't believe. All based on that email address. Exactly. And, and they thought to themselves
like, yeah, this is amazing. It's almost too good to be true. Is somebody setting this guy up?
Is he being framed by the real Alpha O2? And it was just around that time that, in fact, like
independently, completely, not these two FBI agents in Washington, DC, who asked me to call them
just Ali and Aaron, they were totally independently looking, using chain analysis as software
at the Alpha Bay cluster, like this constellation of 2.5 million addresses, Bitcoin addresses
that chain analysis had figured out belonged to Alpha Bay. They didn't know about what was
happening in Fresno, but they thought like, why don't we like find a way through cryptocurrency
tracing alone to figure out who Alpha O2 is, which nobody had ever done that. Nobody ever
identified a dark web kingpin with crypto tracing. But they had this idea that like,
when an exit scam happens, as I mentioned, when the administrator of a dark web site
like just steals everybody's money, every time that happens, the whole dark web freaks out
and everybody warrants each other like, pull your money out. Like, don't keep your,
don't keep any cryptocurrency on a market that you're not about to spend right away,
because it's not a safe place to leave your money, right? And they realized like the only
person who is not going to be freaked out and pull their money out of those wallets when an
exit scam happens is the boss himself, the admin, the one who controls it. Exactly, right,
the one who controls the whole market. So they started kind of, I guess in a similar way to
Sarah Mikkeljohn, just kind of using that idea to scan like a big chunk of the blockchain,
just the, the alpha bay cluster within chain analysis is, you know, software. And they found
exactly this, like some collections of like big troves of crypto that had sat unmoved even as
exit scams happens. And then eventually, like some of them had been later moved out of those
addresses sent through like some hops, and then eventually ended up at exchanges. They found one
massive amount that had gone to an exchange and they sent a subpoena to that exchange,
only after sending that subpoena did they kind of through the grapevine hear this tip
about Alexander Cause. And after learning that like, you know, Fresno was onto this,
this weird French Canadian guy in Bangkok, only then did they get the results of their subpoena
and like lo and behold, the holder of that account that had cashed out these coins from alpha
bay was belonged to Alexander Cause. That was like real proof that he was Alpha O2. They traced the,
you know, the millions of dollars in profits of this dark web drug lord and showed that they
flowed out to this exchange and were being cashed out by Cause and his wife in some cases.
So now they had like, you know, kind of nailed to the wall this theory that had just been
totally unchargeable previously and they had their guy. Where was he located? He was in Bangkok.
Okay, yeah, you said that a hundred times. No, but he like, you know, but that was just the
beginning. I mean, the, the, the, that was how they, they had identified him. They still had to
kind of like get him dead to rights in the same way that they did, that the FBI had with Ross
Ulbricht, which was not easy because like Cause was smart. Despite that, that email slip up,
um, which he, you know, which was brief, but really, uh, kind of, um, just like head slapping,
like amazing mistake to have made, like, um, he was smart and careful. And he had learned from
Ross Ulbricht, like, yes, you encrypt your laptop, um, so that if you just closed the lid, like it,
you never, um, you know, it, it, if you just closed the lid rather, like every secret on
in his scrambles, such that no law enforcement agency will be able to decrypt it in all of human,
you know, many human lifespans. But, um, he had learned that you never like work in a public
library or a public place of any kind. You don't, he didn't, he didn't open his laptop outside of
his home, which was like in this, uh, you know, a house in like behind a gate, behind a wall,
the outskirts of Bangkok, like the logistics of, of getting that laptop opened and unencrypted to
really catch him red handed very hard. It was going to be like a real challenge. Um,
but you asked me, like, you know, where, where, uh, he didn't, like, did he not kind of like have
the public ego of the Dread Pirate Roberts? It turns out that he was posting online, really,
you know, flurried, like crazy. Um, he was very prolific, but under a different pseudonym,
which was kind of his like pickup artist, sex addict pseudonym. He was on this pickup artist
forum, um, Roushvi. And there he, he had this handle Romeo. He, you know, enjoys. Yes. He was
like a fan of unprotected sexes. He might like imagine. Yeah. And he was, he would, I mean,
he just had like endless, um, numbers of extra marital affairs and live blog them, basically.
Like he would just like pick up Thai women and his Lamborghini from like 7-eleven or whatever,
and then go have sex with them. And then just write up in this, like just, it was called the,
I just had sex thread of like, uh, Roushvi. So he's picking up prostitutes and then writing
about it, like posting about it. He was not even that like picky. Like he was just like picking up
women from the parking lot of 7-eleven, whoever they were. Like, um, and, you know,
I don't think he had like that hard of a time, unfortunately, because he was,
he was projecting wealth. He was a white dude who would just kind of signifies money, unfortunately,
in Thailand. And, um, and yeah, I mean, and he was extremely manipulative, manipulative with women
and a misogynist. And, you know, these posts are like some of the grossest shit I've ever read.
And I read like everything that he posted there. Sick fuck. Um, he would, he said,
he bragged about, he had like a second home. He used as his like, whatever. Fuck pad. Yes.
And he says that he recorded all of his sex there, just in case like the women accused him
of a sexual assault or whatever. So he would have like evidence of it or something. He says
that he kept it on an encrypted hard drive and, um, you know, like all this and, um, but he also
just like rampant misogyny, homophobia, like terrible, amoral shit. Like he had a real,
like whoever gives the least fucks wins. Yeah. I think that was like an actual kind of quote from
his, that was his philosophy, though. He was truly like business philosophy. No, from his,
his, his pickup artists philosophy. But I think it, yeah, sure. It pervaded everything. You know,
like he, he was a true, amoral person. Ross Ulbricht, I think, you know, I'm, I, I feel for
him. And, uh, I think he was, he's an interesting, like sympathetic character. And, uh, Alexander
Cause is like a true, he's like most American businessmen hollowed out, uh, monstrous kind of
person. I mean, I'm sorry to say this because I'm like speaking ill of the dead. We'll get to that.
Well, I mean, it's like, you know, those, the person who gives the least fucks wins. It sounds
like that's a very successful recipe for in America, you know? Sure. I mean, and he was
successful in business. He was, I guess successful in his like sex life. If you call that success,
I mean, he seemed to, I mean, if you read his Roush V posts, they're like a whole psychological
portrait. Like, I don't want to be like two, I'm not a psychologist, but you can see him talk about
how he was raised by his mother and his father was not around and like how he craved like.
It seems like the kind of guy who didn't get much attention from females when he was younger.
I'm sure that that's probably true as well. But he also, he, he like, he
he just openly kind of had, I think a kind of daddy complex where he wanted to, I mean,
this whole idea of Alpha O2, Alpha Bay, it was about his quest to become this weird idea of,
of a man that was absent from his life. I mean, he posted about like, I was, because I was,
my father wasn't around, I didn't learn like how to use a chainsaw or like riding a go-kart or
something until I was 18. And that's like these weird ideas of masculinity. I don't know. It was
all very strange, but more like a germane to the story. We could talk about like his complexes
for a long time, but he had posted in Roush V about like, his whole pattern of life. He'd
posted about the encryption that he used. This was how law enforcement was able to kind of like
create a profile of him and, and start to make a plan about how they were going to
actually nab him. And more importantly, his laptop. I mean, they could arrest him anytime.
That was the easy part. The hard part was going to be getting that laptop open.
There was actually like a bizarre incident where like, so after, sorry, I'm skipping ahead of it,
like, you know, they, this becomes like a massive law enforcement investigation called Operation
Bayonet. They bring in the Thai police who are extremely, extremely cooperative. Like the Thai,
Thailand does not a good place to hide out as a drug lord. Yeah. There's a lot of DEA there and a
lot of, it's like, it's just like extradition heaven practically. You know, it's like not,
it's not offshore or whatever. It's very similar to Mexico in that way, where there's a lot of DEA,
DEA, CIA or absolutely. It's like considered a kind of, I think like desirable outpost,
I think as a DEA agent. And that is who, I mean, the DEA is, once they were brought into the case,
they're the ones who have all the connections to the local law enforcement. They have the most
agents abroad of any law enforcement agency. They work like hand and glove with the Thais in Bangkok.
And so not a good place to be hiding out as like the drug lord. Although, you know,
I don't know, he thought he would never be identified. So maybe he was just there because
he likes the weather or the sex life. Yeah, he likes the prostitutes. Yeah.
So the Thais are now like working with them and, oh, sorry, I was just getting to this,
this, you know, we were talking about like how it would have been easy to just like arrest him.
They actually, at one point, the whole, this whole American delegation kind of of prosecutors
and agents is like, has come to Thailand, to Bangkok, and they're just sitting in the lobby
of their hotel where they're planning the, this, they're kind of brainstorming and thinking about
how they're going to do this takedown. And the Thais who are now following causes every move
with a surveillance team, like send them a message that says like, we, we see like,
his white Porsche Panamunera has like, just parked in front of your hotel.
And, and then like the next set, and then like one of the FBI agents kind of like goes to like try
to just look out the window and check it out. And at that moment, Kaz walks through the door
of the lobby of this hotel. And the whole, this whole team that is by this point been tracking
him for nine months is like, what the fuck is like, that's him. And it's, you know, from their
perspective, it's like seeing a ghost today, they're, they think that they're, they're blown,
basically. They think that Kaz has like figured out that he's being tailed, that he's being
surveilled, and that they've, they're onto him. And they, they imagine that he's going to like
come over and say, like, I got you, just like, fuck off, like you're not going to get the evidence
you need to charge me, you know, there's an extradite me. And instead, he just sits down at
the table right next to them, or he just happens to have a business meeting. What? That's like,
it was a complete coincidence. It was totally bizarre and really freaked out, like all the
agents and prosecutors who just kind of like quietly dispersed and, you know, tried to be
like stealthy about it. They, but that's the thing, like they, they could have arrested him at any time.
But they needed to get him logged into Alphabet. They needed to like get his laptop open.
And what, what do they want? What was the most valuable thing to them in the laptop?
Well, they wanted to get a Ross Ulbrich style arrest, you know, which is like, they'll see
him logged into the, because there would be arrested him without the laptop. There wouldn't
be enough, enough evidence, right? They would be going on these blockchain trails, which are strong,
but like very rarely used in court up to that point. So that would have been a little dicey,
this email, which was kind of like circumstantial almost, you know, and then yeah, it would have
been difficult to like make it a open and shut case, basically. So, so they want like what they
got with Ross Ulbrich, which is he was logged into like his mastermind account on the Silk Road.
Like that is his debt to rights evidence. They wanted that for, for a cost. By the way,
is a whole other story that I've kind of skipped over here about how they found the Alphabet server,
which was using this secret technique that chain analysis and IRS, T. Green Combarian,
actually developed together, something that they didn't even want to tell me about.
Right.
But I kind of like figured out by the end of the book reporting, like this secret
surveillance technique, though they found the IP address of that server, which was in Lithuania,
it turns out. But that's just to say that they had, they knew where the server was,
but they had to get cause like connected to it, logged in, proving that he was, without a doubt,
the owner of Alphabet. So, with the help of this kind of like pattern of life that they've established
with all these pickup artists forum posts on Rouge V, they make this plan, which is like
very elaborate. If you're ready to like tell, yeah. They're like on this morning, I think it was July,
July 5th, 2017.
There are like nine undercover agents all surrounding his house, playing different roles,
like one is pretending to be a gardener, one is pretending to be an electrician,
like working on a wiring box, and two are like...
Just like you see in the movies.
Yeah. I mean, it's like truly just this whole cast of actors almost. And one, an American DEA
agent is like pretending to be shopping for real estate in this house at the end of the block
with his fake Thai wife, who is an undercover agent, and like her job, he's supposed to distract her
while she goes up and like gets eyes on the house. And like, it's just so complicated.
But then the real players in this are these two Thai female agents who drive their car down this
cul-de-sac pretending to be lost. And they drive to the end of the block, kind of like
trying to look like they're bad at driving. And the security guard tells them to turn around.
And instead, they back up and crash the car into causes front gate.
This is like the kind of like go time. In fact, what sort of triggered this is that
the team in Lithuania that was supposed to basically connect to the alpha base server
and surveil that while they do this take down and show the connection,
they fucked up and crash the server. So at that point is when like the Lithuania team is like
talking to this war room of agents and police and prosecutors in the Bangkok office of the Thai,
the Royal Thai police. And they're watching surveillance feeds and everything. And they
are the ones who tell us these two women like it's time like go. And they crashed this Toyota
Camry into causes front gate. That's like the diversion that is meant to pull him out of his
house so they can start to get in to get his laptop. This is after they crash the server?
Right. Yeah. They're like, he's about to see that we've we've crashed his server.
He can close his laptop at any time and end this whole thing. It turns out like they would find
out later that when the server crashed, he was like frantically like sending emails to his
hosting provider like, what's going on? Like, why is Alpha Bay down? And
and that actually helps is even more evidence. But
but he doesn't come out. His wife comes out. And she's like, oh, it's okay. Like, don't worry
about it. She's very sweet. Actually, I mean, I've just watched the video. I've seen and I've
talked through the whole exactly what happens with all the agents there. And his Thai wife is like,
it's okay, don't worry about it. But the driver of the car, this undercover agent woman is like,
no, I'm so sorry. Like, please let me pay for it. Please have your husband come down. So
I can, you know, talk to him about paying him back. Like, I don't want to pay him my next life.
She says, like, kind of like alluding, you know, some, like, Buddhist beliefs. And so, like,
cause his wife, his name is Tunisa, like, shouts up to him. And they see that he's like in
like his window actually opens. And even on the surveillance footage, the people in the war room
can see, oh, that's him. He got his attention. Like he's, and they can see that his that the
blind is like cracked and and he's talking to his wife. And then he does come down and he's like
shirtless and shoeless, like in his gym shorts. And I'm sorry, I was like, I just,
he was also commando. I just wasn't gonna really want to say that. He was naked? Yeah. No, no,
he was just going commando. Like, like, no, apparently. And, and he kind of like comes out
and tries to mess with the gates. And all of the kind of different undercover agents start to like
get involved. And there's one agent who was pretending to be the driver of the real estate
shopping couple's car that comes out to kind of help. And so at this point, when he's walking down,
they don't know if the laptops open or closed or do they don't know, you know, they're just
hoping to God he didn't close it. They did. They did see when they started this,
they're the thing about Roushvi as well as that you can see when someone is logged in,
they're like, they're kind of icon on their name turns green, you know, and shows like
this person is active. And they could see when I guess they could see that that he was active.
But they didn't know if the computer was going to go to sleep. But that's when they
when they saw that he was active, that's when they were like, okay, we can start this.
That was like part of his, you know, sort of operational security, right? Right. Fuck up here,
essentially. Anyway, so I guess that's to make a long story short, like
at this point, it's time for them to try to get the laptop date. There's a whole kind of
other pantomime here about how they got his phone. They had to get his phone as well.
And like one agent kind of like grabbed it out of the waistband of his shorts and stuff. But
but the phone ultimately had nothing important on it. So I'll skip that. But like the
at this point, like the Gardner, I think was the one who put his police vest on and starts
like running towards cause cause like turns and sees him realizes what's happening.
And it goes into this fight or flight mode. Try it, you know, he immediately spins around.
He knows he has to get back to his laptop. And one agent grabs him and then another,
they kind of like tussle, but then like this one agent named M, who was hiding in the back seat
of the real estate shopping couple's car, this kind of short athletic guy, breaks free and
he his job is to like sprint into the house. He's practiced on like other similar layout
houses and everything. Oh, they knew the exact layout of the house. It's like studied other
houses in the neighborhood. He sprints up the stairs. He like thinks he's got it's in the
home office. He's like goes in there. He finds that there's like two house guests who are asleep
in bed. He's like, Oh, sorry. And he like flips spins around goes into the bedroom and finds this
like cheap white desk with the laptop open, still logged into alpha bay. And he like,
you know, lunges for it and puts his hand on the mouse pad and keeps it alive. And that's it.
Like, you know, you hear over the police radio and I heard this in the recording even like
officers like we have the laptop and then everybody in the war room like
starts cheering and like, yeah, it was just very dramatic. Sadly, you know, cause is then
brought to Thai police headquarters kept in a jail there for the next week. And after one week
just before just after he's agreed to extradition, in fact, he's found dead in a
Thai jail cell. Convenient for someone. Yeah, you know, maybe didn't work with the Russian mafia
or something or hit a lot of like shady clients that possibly didn't want to. I did hear that,
you know, I heard that from a friend of his and it was like a bit vague. There's a lot of
stories you can come up with about who would have wanted him dead.
Hmm. Maybe he maybe he had like local police on the take even, you know,
like who then were worried that they would be found out when he was captured. Hmm.
You know, maybe he did like have local partners in Alphabet. Hmm.
Deesnake, I mentioned was his kind of second in command. Right. And I mean, Deesnake
actually tells me I did interview Deesnake through the dark, you know,
through anonymous channels later. And he says that he had a whole plan to get cause out.
And he wouldn't tell me what it was, but it was a kind of like
kills. I don't know what you call this, like a dead man switch. Yeah, kind of a dead man switch.
Like if you don't hear from me for a certain amount of time, then activate the plan. And there
was money like set up for it and like I said, if he if he's if he's dead or if he dies or if he's
just in jail. Okay. Like you like release this money or something or like get hire a lawyer or
I don't even know what at one point cause had like bragged to a DEA agent that I spoke to about
having like a helicopter gunship that was going to come and break him out. And I don't know if
that was like a silly boast or just fucking with her or if maybe that was the plan for all I know.
But no plan like happened in time. He I mean, cause died. And for the snake, the snake says
that's evidence that he was killed because he would not have killed himself, which is what
so just to be clear, prosecutors, the FBI, everybody told me that that cause killed himself
in jail. And these things says that's impossible because he would have waited for our plan at
least to like to see if it works. How long after he went into jail, did he end up dead?
About a week. About a week. And what evidence was there that he actually killed himself?
Well, yeah, so I like went, I mean, I spent time in Thailand, I like got as far as visiting the
cell that he was in. I got video of his last others video of it. There's, there's jail cell
video. There was, I saw that there were cameras in his cell when I was there and I was like,
give me this video, please. Maybe he did kill himself. But the video, sorry. So the video
shows. So just to be clear, like he, he was found asphyxiated, strangled in the back of
the cell behind the kind of three foot high wall. There was a towel wrapped around his neck.
The suicide theory is that he basically like wrapped this towel around his neck,
made a noose of it, put it in the hinge of the door, which is this kind of like swinging
three foot high door, and then just like, you know, lean forward, which sounds totally implausible.
But if you read the medical literature, which I like looked into, it's really grizzly stuff.
It is like, I mean, I don't want to get into, I don't want to give people ideas,
but it's easier than you think to, to kill yourself that way, to, to kill yourself without
suspending your full body. But so I looked at this jail cell video, which I did get. I mean,
they gave it to me the time. Well, I don't, I can't say exactly who gave it to me, but I got it.
The law enforcement as a whole were cooperative about giving me that video. I didn't like
get it from a hacker or something. Okay, okay. And it shows him kind of looking out of the
cell, looking up and down the, the jail, like hallway, and he disappears in the back. The, the
part of the cell where he died was not on camera. And in fact, there was a gap in the footage then
and the next thing you see, you actually see, you can kind of see him messing with the towel.
Even just like a tiny bit by himself, by himself in the corner of the frame.
Nobody else in his cell, no one else in the cell. And then there's a half hour gap.
And then the next thing you see in the footage is everybody rushing in and finding his dead body.
So it's just totally, why a half hour gap? Well, this is the thing, like they tell me that
I was told it was because nothing happened. There's nothing on the video at that point. Why
keep it? And the ties, you know, I just have to, I feel like you should not.
That's like so insulting to say that. You shouldn't, you should not like assume
malice where it could just be incompetence. Like the ties are probably not used to media scrutiny.
Or, you know, and I could just, I could imagine that they thought it made sense to
delete this like boring half hour of nothing happening in the cell, just to save space on
the drive. Like that is the part where he actually dies though. Well, you can't see anything.
It's all in the back. It's all off camera anyway. Okay. Okay. What it doesn't, what it doesn't prove,
I mean, what it would have showed if he killed himself, if we could, if he did kill himself.
I truly am trying to be clear here that I don't know what happened. Right. Like I'm not taking,
I'm not leaning either way. I'm fully like, and that's not just as a journalist. Like if I,
if I had an inkling of like, if I could prove it either way, then I would say so. But what you
don't see is like half an hour of nobody going into his cell. You don't see, like the footage is,
is not there. There's no footage. So what it doesn't, what I don't have is like, is some
dispositive thing of like, seeing, yeah, he like goes to the back, there's half an hour of nobody
entering a cell, then he's found dead. That would have, I think, proved that it was suicide to me.
Instead, we have this mysterious hour that his lawyer, you know, his defense attorney,
who's convinced that he was murdered, was like, what the hell? Like, that's even worse.
Well, if he was murdered, why would he set up the, the noose or the, the out of the bedsheets
himself? Well, like, if you were, you can't actually see him, him make a noose. You just
see him kind of messing with the towel. Who knows? Maybe he was like, taking showers, like
about, oh, you can't actually see him fashioning in. So like, the theory that he was killed,
is that he, I mean, it would have had to have been in that half hour,
said somebody came in and like, killed him, choked him with the towel.
Was there an autopsy?
There was an autopsy. I read the, I got the report. I mean, this is like a really impressive,
you know, it's impressive that the, that I got, it's impressive that they were willing to share it.
But it is a tie corner report. I don't know, I don't know like how.
Was there any sort of indication or any sort of details about that hyoid bone in the neck?
You know, the, you know, the bone that they found in Epstein that was fractured,
and I guess there's, there's tons of reports.
Wow. You've gone deep on Epstein clearly. I mean, that's, and that is, of course,
is the model for what everybody imagines happened here. The missing footage, like,
there was a jail cell footage, but it's missing and like, there's, there's this,
there's this bone in the neck that if it's broken, that they say that that bone never breaks when
someone just sort of affixiates themselves. It's only from, from some severe trauma.
That's interesting. I, you know, it wasn't, there was no mention of that in the report.
I'm learning about this bone from you right now.
Pull up something on the hyoid bone. Maybe we can look at it.
Yeah. The report just says like, death from asphyxiation,
no sign of anyone else's DNA on his fingernails, finger hands, anything, for instance, like,
which might have been, but you know, the, I just want to, you know, this is the tie police corner.
And if we're worried that like the ties were the type police or someone in type police,
I talked to many of the type police involved in this investigation. They,
they struck me as honest and like, not corrupt people, although there are absolutely like huge
pockets of corruption than the world type police. I don't, I didn't see that in the, you know, and
the people that I like spoke with who were involved in this and they kind of had a good
reputation. That's part of why they were brought in to this global, this international case.
But yeah, if they, if there were corrupt people who had him killed, then they could have easily
like have the coroner's reports written up in a certain way as well. So I'm not sure what any of
that proves. You know, the, the prosecutor, like I mentioned Grant Rabin, the prosecutor in the case,
he actually was in Thailand's for all of this and he interviewed cause before he killed himself,
before he killed himself or was murdered and says that he kind of saw this
side of cause. Like he, he was kind of shocked by causes personality, which seemed to be kind of
flat and unconcerned about his fate and not like a sociopath, but, but someone, but very strange.
And Grant, Grant would put like described it to me as like, he was a gamer. He kind of played his
life like a game. Once you, like the game is over, you just turn the machine off. Like,
once you've got your highest, the highest score you can get and then things are not working out
for you, you just hit the reset button. You know, that's how, that's how he thinks cause
thought and lived his life. Interesting. Cause his defense attorney saw it completely
differently, of course. And said that like cause was concerned for his safety, concerned for his
family wanted to like make sure nobody believes that he was cooperating, which of course the
prosecutors and agents wanted him to become a source and flip and like become even possibly
like an undercover, help them with undercover operations and things. And doesn't buy any of
this stuff about cause like being ready to die. Right. So what does this say? Oh, highway one
fracture. Here you go. The hyoid bone fracture is a very rare fracture of the hyoid bone accounting
for 0.002% of all fractures in humans. It is commonly associated with strangulation and rarely
occurs in isolation. The fracture may be associated with gunshot, gunshot injury, car accidents,
or induced vomiting. In 50% of strangulations and 27% of hangings, the fracture occurs.
And that was broken. Yeah. That's fascinating. Yeah. Because
if you want to get into it, like what I learned from reading the medical literature on strangulation
and auto asphyxiation, like killing yourself this way is that it's way too easy. Like it's
shockingly easy. People die in auto asphyxiation accidents all the time, like autoerotic
asphyxiation. Do they really? Well, it seems so. I mean, I'm not an expert in this, but I read
some studies just to see what I was trying to find out is like, you know, it causes the
fence attorney was like, he hung himself from a three foot high wall and died. Like that does
not make any sense. That's just the physics of that do not make sense. But then when you read
about it, yes, like people die, like people hang themselves in a seated position, in a kneeling
position, very often like in like an autoerotic asphyxiation scenarios. Right. Not to like,
sorry, this is really grisly stuff to get into and then accidentally die. Yeah. Frequently from
this. Interesting. So that doesn't happen by like breaking a bone or like, it's not like you've
violently snapped your neck or something. Right, exactly. So if his bone was not fractured,
that would indicate that he did actually strangulate himself. He actually did kill
himself. But if the bone was broken in his neck, that would suggest that there was some
violent trauma. Well, I'm now like, just based on this conversation alone,
you know, sounds pretty convincing that Epstein was strangled. Yeah. Because
and the way that you do this, like when you're, you know, if you were sorry, the cause of the case
is I'm not, this doesn't prove anything either way about him. But he, all he had to do was kind
of cut off blood flow, which is much less sort of high force violent act than what you're talking
about, which would break a bone. So cause this case remains unsolved. Like I did truly everything
in my power to come to a conclusion and I could not. But I don't know, like the Epstein thing seems
really fucking suspicious. Yeah, yeah, extremely fucking dark and a deep rabbit hole to fall down.
Yeah. So, but yeah, that was the end of the alpha based or in some ways it was the end,
like we didn't even get into this other thing. Like I mentioned that they wanted to flip cause.
But in fact, they had simultaneously, this is like the size of this investigation, it was so
sprawling. The same time that Alpha Bay was taken down, the Dutch police had taken over
this second biggest dark web market called Hansa. And they were, they had, the Dutch police were
running, running the entire market undercover. They had taken the positions of the actual bosses
of that dark web market and had turned the whole thing into a kind of surveillance trap,
such that when Alpha Bay was taken down, all of Alpha Bay's buyers and sellers just flooded
into the second biggest market. This is what always happens on the dark web. You just go
to the next market when one is shut down, which was Hansa in this case, which, which was the whole
thing, a kind of giant trap for all of Alpha Bay's refugees. And so they had like a net on the
backside to basically catch everybody. Yes. I mean, it was like truly an unprecedented operation in
the history of dark web, you know, law enforcement. They, they had, they did this kind of one to
punch thing where they not only took down the biggest dark web market in history, but then had
this net, as you said, waiting for thousands and thousands of, of really the dealers is who
they're going after, of course, just ready to catch them as they moved into Hansa, where, you
know, like basically Hansa's code had been sabotaged to remove all the safeguards that, that,
as I said, like a dark web market is not supposed to even know who is visiting, you know, they,
they shouldn't know who you are any more than you know who they are, you know. But
Hansa had been kind of like silently rewritten by the Dutch, these Dutch police so that it could
find out all these things about you. It was recording like all this information. It was like,
they tricked people into basically downloading malware. It was like, it looked like sort of
sales spreadsheets, but in fact, they had a kind of homing beacon in it to identify drug dealers.
They even did this like complex thing. They at one point pretended they were trying to hire a new
kind of administrator for the market. And if you applied, they would say, well, we need to send
you a UB key, like a USB key to like, you would plug in to confirm, you know, for your security.
Right. And in the packet, they would mail the UB key hidden inside its comment to like use this
kind of camouflage when sending drugs or sending anything, but they would hide it inside of a
stuffed animal, like a stuffed panda. And this panda also had hidden GPS beacon so that they
could locate the, you know, even if you received your dark web mail at a drop address, which is like,
you know, the smarter way to do it, you have some address, it's not your home where you receive the
stuff. The idea is that you would take this stuffed panda without thinking back to your house
and it would have a GPS beacon in it. And they would find the people who were applying to work
for as administrators of a dark web market this way. And this was a giant, like just feeding
frenzy for law enforcement in terms of eventually arresting hundreds and hundreds of dealers.
And it was sort of fed into a database, of course, of all this information that they'd
collected from this huge thing, Operation Bayonet, about Alpha Bay users, about Hansa users,
went into this database. And then like over the next years, there were just one huge takedown
after another. So it's not easy to trace exactly like where, which arrests it led to. But, you know,
there were just like dozens of tons of drugs and millions and millions of dollars and hundreds
of people arrested as a result of this. So how has this all affected this underground drug market
today? Like what is the current state of sort of dark web drug dealing and this kind of stuff?
Yeah, this is the great twist ending, which is that Justice, I was finishing the reporting on this
and really like finally, you know, it took me five years to really like get the full Alpha Bay
story. I mean, it was publicly announced as like, yeah, we did this massive takedown,
then it became clear, holy shit, they did like a takeover of the second like this. But all of that
was sort of understood like as a sort of almost just like a press release in 2017. It took me
five years to really learn the details of how it all truly happened and to speak to everybody
involved and like truly tell the story. And just as I was finishing that reporting, Alpha
Bay came back online and is now being run by D Snake, the second in command. Oh,
shit, the guy you talked to. Yes, like Alpha Bay is back and D Snake is in charge and he is like,
you know, it's not going anywhere. And how long has he been in charge? How long has this been going
on? I guess, let's see. So I think it came back online in the summer of like late 20, summer 2021.
And of course, it was relaunched from scratch. So it had none of the
met in the, I don't know how it was like, the thousands of dealers had moved elsewhere.
Had to be persuaded to come back, basically. And it's taken almost until now, probably to,
well, not to even get close, I would say, to Alpha Bay's original, well, to its peak. But I think it
has by some measures become, I was looking at the numbers recently, and it's harder to
analyze than you might think because Alpha Bay is doing a better job of obscuring its business.
But it has by some measures become the biggest dark web drug market again.
So I'm sure he's read your book, and I'm sure he's well aware of how this all works now.
And well, he didn't need to read my book to know like what, you know, actually maybe he did,
but some parts of it he might have known about how cause got, got, got. And I think he definitely
had learned lessons from that in some of them were pretty apparent. Like he, he knows that
causes laptop was grabbed. He says he has all these kill switch things where like,
if his laptop is taken, if his server is seized, it'll be destroyed. And like Alpha Bay can be
rebuilt automatically with like, on new computers and a lot of stuff. It's hard to, to decipher
how much of it is real or would work. But yeah, you think that, you know, after Alpha O2 and Ross
being caught with their laptops open, they would figure out some sort of way to like remotely
control their laptop being encrypted, like either on a phone or like. Absolutely. But also,
D Snake just says like, he just doesn't ever walk away from his laptop. I mean, that's the
easy thing where he doesn't, when he's just, even when he goes to the bathroom, he told me,
he does not, he does not leave it open. You know, everybody has their own claims. Everybody has
their own reason for overconfidence. You know, each one of these guys thought that they had
outsmarted the system. The one thing that I was really impressed with is that this was the whole
cryptocurrency tracing part of how they got cause was never really public. But
somehow D Snake did figure out that that was a big part of the investigation, or maybe he just
guessed. And so Alpha Bay now only uses Monero, a newer cryptocurrency that is designed to be
far less traceable. That's a big like sacrifice, in a sense, because most people don't want to use
Monero. They don't, a lot of people have never heard of it. So you're reducing your revenue
by doing that. But D Snake like understands that money laundering is just essential and that
you don't take risks about, you know, financial trails.
Is there like Zcash or something too?
Yeah, exactly. So that's very hard to trace, almost impossible.
Yeah. I appreciate you brought it up because Zcash, I think is probably the least traceable.
In fact, perhaps truly untraceable. I know I made that mistake with Bitcoin once and
believed that about Bitcoin. But I do just like talking to the researchers, looking at how it
works. Zcash is almost like magically untraceable. It uses the Z and Zcash comes from zero knowledge
proofs, which are these sort of very, I don't know, like hard to even get your mind around
the kind of mathematical proofs where you can, essentially the whole Zcash blockchain is encrypted,
but you can do a sort of mathematical kind of process on it where you can check that a
transaction happens that is, you know, you cannot counterfeit something or double spend a coin or
whatever. But you can do that while learning zero knowledge basically about the transaction
other than the fact that it was real and that it, you know, and that can basically like serve to
guarantee this cryptocurrency Zcash in the same way that the normal blockchain does with Bitcoin.
But without a blockchain that can reveal anything to anybody, you know, it's truly
a black box. And, you know, it's called Bitcoin. I think like one point I thought it was the holy
grail of the cypher punks for financial privacy. But Zcash really does seem to be it. I mean,
it's interesting we're talking about this because like, maybe you can hear in the way I'm saying
that Minero, I'm not sure is that like Minero, the one that is much more popular, I think,
I think it is at this point still than Zcash is thought to be untraceable,
is no doubt far, far harder to trace than Bitcoin is being used by people on the dark web like
Dsnick and Alpha Bay. But I don't, I don't think it is truly mathematically untraceable. And the
degree to which it can be traced, you know, is just the fact that there is any possibility
of tracing means that chain analysis and that now a whole industry of companies competing with
chain analysis. Chain analysis is now an $8.6 billion startup. They have money to recruit the
smartest people thinking of new tricks to, you know, unmasked to trace to de-anonymize
any cryptocurrency that has like the slightest foothold, a little bit of like
hints or a clue of how to follow the money. So I would still, you know, if I were like a
high net worth dark web criminal, I would still be pretty concerned about using Minero.
Yeah, and that's not just speculation. Like it was actually Dsnick himself in our conversation
at one point, our conversations over like some weeks, who was like, Hey, look at this,
this just popped up. And it was a link to a dark web site called Dark Leaks that some hacker had
set up that was a collection of documents from the Italian police. And it revealed like some
of the, it was a lot of information about how the Italian police had taken down a couple of
dark websites. And one of the files on it was a presentation that chain analysis had given
to the Italian police about their capabilities. And in that presentation, in Italian, it says
we can trace Minero in the majority of cases and it breaks it down. Like in 60% of cases,
we can get like a usable lead in another 15% of cases, we can find the sender, but not the
recipients, that kind of thing. They sort of admit in this presentation that it's kind of
probabilistic. It's not like definitive in the way that it has been with Bitcoin. But that's
often good enough to start just like sending out those subpoenas. And like, you only have to have
a kind of educated guess in a lot of cases to send subpoenas to start doing searches in some cases.
So I think that like, a lot of cryptocurrency users are still probably falling for this trap
of thinking that they're using an untraceable currency that is not quite untraceable. And
that might just be enough for them to be completely traced and caught. So, but I do think Zcash may
be an exception to that. I can't imagine what it must be like to be you to be working on a story
like this for five years and putting it together. And in the meantime, you're also doing active
reporting, you're publishing all these other stories and at the same time, you're putting
together these books. This is what your third book? Well, yeah, this is my third book. I've
covered it all as it was happening. In 2018, I managed to get a couple of those Dutch agents
to talk to me and I wrote a story about the Hansa part of it, that second biggest dark
web market that they took over. So, and then for most of the rest of those years, I'm just like
running into dead ends, hitting my head against brick walls. And it's not like I'm like slowly,
consistently making progress and getting this. And the true breakthrough was when I realized,
when I started to see the cryptocurrency tracing was this incredibly important
new investigative technique, not new by 2020, but like new to me, and digging into that. And
then I learned that it was the kind of crucial weapon used to, well, yeah, the kind of crucial
like fingerprinting technique that has found cause and the identified alpha bay, alpha two,
and was this kind of critical ingredient to taking down alpha bay. That's when
the thing kind of like opened up for me. Like I started to learn about the crypto tracers who
have been involved. And then once you kind of like have your foot in the door and you're talking to
some of the major players, the other ones are like, well, we want to tell you are part of it too.
You know, people don't want to get left out. Even the ones whose names are anonymized and
stuff like I think that they also, you know, I really appreciate that people tell these stories
even anonymously, even with pseudonyms and stuff, because they just know that like this
story is too crazy to not to take to their grave. You know, I appreciate that about people that
like they want to tell their craziest stories. It must be so wild for you reporting on all these
things from, you know, these cryptocurrency marketplaces and these dark web drug marketplaces
and hackers that you talk to. And there must be so many dots that connect for you, like reporting
on different stories and finding out how different things connect because you're in this like,
you're so like engulfed in this dark web underworld. Yeah, I mean, I guess so. Like I
How do you choose what stories to report on? Like how do you pick? How do you decide what you're
going to what you're going to either write a book about or what you're going to report on?
Well, you know, I don't know. I like it. I got lucky in a sense that like, as you say,
that it all kind of connected. I had been so obsessed with the Silk Road when it appeared.
And it just seemed like such a fascinating story. And I was totally beaten to that story by like
Nick Bilton, who wrote the book about it. And, you know, and I was like, that is going to be the
best story I ever encounter in my career. And this whole story of like how cryptocurrency has
like unlocked the dark web. And then I was just lucky enough that it turned out that I had exactly
the wrong idea about it. And in fact, cryptocurrency was the fatal flaw of the dark web. And like,
the whole thing, like I just kind of was able to flip it. And instead of talking to the,
the criminal sides, which I'd always thought was the right approach to get the best story,
it often is. But like, it turns out that like, in this case, law enforcement really was able to
tell me the story better than anybody, because they were the ones who figured out this like,
crazy revelation that you could trace cryptocurrency, or, you know, with the help of
chain analysis and Sarah and Michael John. And, you know, and that perspective, I never really
told us a story from law enforcement's perspective in this way before. And I was a little wary of
doing so. But I think that in a way, it's like even more dramatic, because you can see,
you can see the story in a way that even the criminals could not see it, you know,
like they thought that they were invisible, and they were not. And like, you can watch them
through this kind of secret lens. And like, that provided just like an amazing dramatic irony,
you know? But just, yeah, like, I guess to your question of like, how do we find, how do I find
the, the next big story? Like, I write all kinds of sizes of stories, I write like web stories,
I wrote like a story about like a chain analysis research report that I published today that's
like, you know, kind of daily fodder kind of stuff. And I think it's important sometimes. But
really, it's almost like I'm looking for like this, the storytelling arc. I mean,
you're a storyteller, you probably like think about this too, like, you don't want to just
for, for a new story, it's like one fact can be the whole thing. For a magazine story, it's like
maybe one character can be just enough. For a book, you need like an actual whole arc of like,
twists and turns and a climax and like, and that kind of thing. And, and so I'm just, I don't
know, in the way I, I'm just kind of like surveying like all these crazy stories happening in the
hacker world and the dark web. And it's only when one of them kind of fits that almost like three
act structure or whatever, that I think like, Oh, this needs to be a book. Yeah.
Do you ever get any pushback from editors when you're working on stories? Because you've worked
for like big publications, Forbes, Wired, like, do you ever deal with any of that? Like any sort of
pushback or any sort of trying to like, you know, square the circle type thing with people?
That's interesting. Like when I was at Forbes, I sometimes I felt like, why do they let me write
for this place? Like, it's a, it was a pretty conservative. I'm not sure it's quite as conservative
now. It had definitely like some conservative leanings. Probably still, I think it still does.
I think what anybody nowadays thinks about any big publication, you automatically just
figure out, okay, where do I paint them left or do I paint them right? You know, it's like
politics are so like is so injected into every mainstream news publication now.
And so, you know, like, I remember the editor in chief of Forbes when I was, I did like a big
piece on the drive pirate Roberts and based on my interview with him. And he was a little bit like,
why are we like giving a platform to this drug dealer to like, to hawk his shit through our
magazine, you know, like, and, and as a result, he there was like a little bit of like, I mean,
this is typical stuff for, you know, when you work with editors, and it's not, I don't think it's
like criminal or anything, but, but there were little injections of like, of jabs at him and it's
like there, you know, that at that point, the Silk Road was getting hit with a lot of sort of
low level cyber attacks from other dark web people and hackers and stuff. And, and I had
mentioned that in the piece that like, there was a kind of war, like, you know, I guess,
you know, a bit of conflict within these groups, and they were accusing, like the Silk Road was
accusing other dark web markets of hitting it with these attacks. And an editor added in like,
as always happens with like, the drug world, now there's like, internecine gang warfare and
violence has entered and I was sort of like, it's not violence, you know, this is like, this is
actually the alternative to real violence. It's just like some dudes, some, some nerds, like,
hitting each other with data packets, bullets. So like, I, I do, I do kind of like, look at that
piece now and think like, oh, that, that wasn't the right approach to talking about this. Like,
that does not give enough credit to whatever credit is due and you can tell that I have like a very
complicated feeling about the Silk Road. Like, it did eliminate some kinds of violence from the drug
trade and deserves credit for that. And I think that like, the slightly older, maybe just socially
conservative editors of Forbes, like sometimes were, I think, a little wary of, of giving it that
credit, you know? But I have to say, like Forbes was a wonderful place to work in a lot of respects,
like I, and they gave me the freedom to chase these stories, even though it was not very Forbes-y very
often. And I spent like years just like, covering anonymous and WikiLeaks and stuff that was not,
not at all like what you would think Forbes would be interested in. And Parmi Olson, who
wrote a great book about anonymous, also worked at Forbes at the same time. And Kashmir Hill,
who now works at The Times and covers like some, you know, she covers surveillance and privacy,
was there too. It was like, actually a wonderful like newsroom. And we had tons, we had a really
long leash. And there was, you know, like sometimes these bits of like editorial injections, but it
was like, not a, it was a cool place to work. Is that were you working for Forbes when you
actually sat down with Julian Assange? Yeah. Oh, really? Yeah. And that was like a, you know,
I mean, to be fair, like I, I came up with a Forbes-y sort of angle for the piece that we
did based on that, which was like, WikiLeaks has now disemboweled the US military and like
dumped their secrets on, on the web. But it could happen to you, CEO, whatever, like this
could happen to your company too. WikiLeaks can, and that model of, of leaking and whistleblowing
is just as ripe, you know, for disrupting companies as it is governments. And that was kind
of the, the excuse that I had to write this big piece about Assange and WikiLeaks for the
magazine at the time. And they put Assange on the cover. And it was like, Assange wants to leak
your corporate secrets, you know? But I was, I was happy to, I was fine with that angle because
it was true. And, and like, it gave me, and it also allowed me to like, go meet Assange in 2010
just before the biggest leak he ever did, which was Cablegate, the, you know, quarter million
state department cables that really, I think it was kind of like, in some ways, the climax of
like what WikiLeaks ever was. Explain what Cablegate was again for you to understand.
So there are over the course, this is all I think, I think it's fair to say now.
Was this, was this after the collateral murder stuff?
Yes. Okay.
So 2010 was the big year for WikiLeaks. Okay.
Now we're going way back. Like the April of 2010 is when collateral murder came out,
which was this, that's what they called it. That was WikiLeaks title for it. It was the,
a video from, I think it was an Apache helicopter cockpit, like the view from the pilots, the gunners
perspective, as they fired on these civilians and journalists in Iraq and killed like several of them.
WikiLeaks obtained this and published it. And, and that was what when I was like, holy
shit, I'd heard of WikiLeaks, but I never, it was like, this is some extremely explosive
shit that they're getting. And they had not got it from a hacker, they, you know, or, or whatever.
They got it through a leaker, like, um, they got it through their anonymous,
essentially dark web. We didn't call it that so much back then, but it was a same, it was a dark web
uploading, uh, portal, basically, they were using Tor in the same way that the Silk Road was, but,
or not in the same way, they were using the same tool, but they were using it to
grant anonymity to sources. Right.
So that's something like nobody could trace the leak, right, essentially.
That was the idea. And, and, you know, Chelsea Manning was able to, to thus, like,
share a giant trove of classified secrets with WikiLeaks.
Chelsea Manning was found out, of course, through her associations with this other hacker,
Adrian Lamo, and who kind of ratted her out. And so that's not a very nice way to say it,
but turned her in. And, uh, but, you know, WikiLeaks, the reason that I, like,
got interested in the dark web really was because of WikiLeaks and sort of tracing its
origins in this cypherpunk dark web world. Julian Assange was a member of the cypherpunks
in the 90s, you know, like talking about using encryption technology to, like, change the world.
So, um, yeah. So then, like, collateral murder came out in April, I think then in July,
the Afghan war logs came out, the, um, this giant collection of, like, classified documents from
a war in Afghanistan, WikiLeaks published, then the Iraq war logs, war diaries, I think was called
later. And then, um, it was a, by that time, I was, like, already, like, trying to get, get to
Assange, you know, trying to make inroads with WikiLeaks. I, like, found this weird guy named
Penguin X on the WikiLeaks IRC channel, who then I was, like, chatting with him over, like,
this encrypted thing. And, like, uh, he was, like, come to Iceland and I did and, like,
um, met him and sort of, like, hung out waiting to hear, like, Julian Assange at that point.
He was, like, come to Iceland, but there's no guarantees you're going to meet Julian.
Well, they told me that I would, but, like, they wouldn't say when or where and stuff like that.
And, um, and, uh, and Assange actually was sort of, I don't know if it was quite on the run,
but he had been accused of, uh, these sex crimes against two Swedish women and gone off the map.
I think it turned out that he was actually just, like, staying in this, um, house in the English
countryside. And so I was told to go to London. I flew from, from Reykjavik to London and I met
with Assange in London, um, and interviewed him. And that was really, like, the genesis of my first
book, um, which was about, um, about WikiLeaks, but about the cypherpunk movement that gave rise
to WikiLeaks and about the ways that, um, people for decades tried to develop this cryptographic
anonymity technology and, you know, how, and hoped to change the world with it, which, you know,
in the case of WikiLeaks and a lot of the other stories I tell in that book, um, were about,
like, trying to free the world's information to, to allow leakers and whistleblowers to, um,
to, to just dump it, you know, or to hand it over to somebody like WikiLeaks. Um,
or, you know, in some cases, like the first person who came up with this idea was this
cypherpunk, like, crypto anarchist guy named Tim May, and he had envisioned this idea of, like, a
kind of, uh, eBay firm, like, black market eBay for information where anybody can go on there
and buy and using cryptographic anonymity, he imagined something like Tor, although it didn't
exist, and buy and sell secrets, um, which is exactly what the Silk Road was. He just never
imagined that, like, the contraband could be physical, could be, could be, like, drugs hidden
in a package. I mean, um, nobody thought that the mail system actually would, would allow that.
That was the big, one other big surprise of how well Silk Road worked.
Was Julian everything you thought he would be? What was he like in person? What kind of guy was
he? Yeah, I mean, this is, man, this is, like, I don't know how long ago, uh, 12 years ago. Um,
he was really charming. Um, he was like, I don't know, I was a little shocked, like, how tall
and handsome he was. He had, he had just cut all of his hair to his, like, this short kind of,
and he was wearing a suit, which was all really surprising. Um, and, um, wasn't how I, you know,
thought of him at the time, because he had, he had had long hair and looked like a hacker and
dressed like, you know, in these hacker-y ways. Um, and he was like, he's, he was, like, good at, uh,
sort of charming me and flattering me. And, um, he definitely, like, you know, um,
he was a great interview. He, um, he had, like, really interesting things to say. I was very
taken by him, to be honest. Really? Um, yeah. I mean, I thought he was just, like, a super fascinating
and admirable person at the time. And I think it, you know, it was in the process of writing that
book that, you know, when I tried to talk to him again, um, when he kind of showed more of some
of his true colors that, like, I realized that he was, among other things, just so arrogant, uh,
yeah, like, to a degree that, like, you know, I, I, I don't think it wasn't, like, the points, uh,
to, to, like, judge his character. You know, I wasn't, um, ever really just trying to, like,
do the celebrity profile of Assange and, like, um, but, but I think that it does speak to, like,
he had an enormous amount of power and as the, as the controller of all of these secrets, ultimately.
And I think it both kind of, like, warped him a little. I talk about it in the book. I mean,
everybody, I think, who was, who lives in that secret world gets a little bit warped by it.
Yeah. And also, I think he was extremely paranoid for good reason and that also, like,
it's a hard way to live. And, um,
did you record the interview?
Yeah, I did. I don't, I don't know if I have it anymore.
Oh, God.
Like, I, like, I, I, it's just been so long. Like,
How long was it?
Um, how long was the whole conversation?
Yeah.
I think it was, like, four hours.
Yeah. I mean, I, you know, we published the whole Q&A online, but I don't know if I
have the audio anymore. I wouldn't have even, back then, recorded it, like, to my phone or
something. I would have used, like, a tiny, like, one of those.
A tape recorder?
Like, one of those old fashioned digital recorders.
And I remember it's actually fascinating. Like,
I remember that I had two to be safe, just to, you know, like,
Yeah.
Just be careful.
And, uh, um, at one point, uh, his, he and his, um, I thought, uh, she worked,
like, for him at WikiLeaks. It turns out that, um, I would say like, this is Sarah Harrison.
Sarah Harrison came to our interview as well.
She was, I think, ultimately, like, a really important person in, in,
and kind of took over a lot of the responsibilities of WikiLeaks, was instrumental in helping
Snowden, um, get out of, um, like, uh, well, to get to, to freedom, if you call it that in Russia.
Yeah.
Um, anyway, at one point, like, they, they were like, can we have a moment to discuss something
privately? And I took my recorder with me, but I accidentally left one in the room.
Oh no.
And, um, they just had a whole, like, conversation, um, that I recorded.
Um, well, I didn't record it, actually.
What I, I, I, just as, as they were starting to talk, I was like, oh, I left the other
recorder in and I went back and I said, I like said, I've, uh,
They're talking shit about you.
I've got one more.
I've got one more.
I mean, they were probably planning, like, the drop of the, of cable gate, you know,
they, they just told me, or whatever, you know, for all I know, they were just, like,
talking about, like, um, how to get to their next, like, meeting or whatever.
But, uh, I remember I went and I was like, oh, sorry.
I actually left another recorder in here, but I've thought, like,
wow, I could have recorded a secret conversation about WikiLeaks, like, plans at that point.
I would have been, like, totally unethical to do that.
But they, they had told me in that interview, we have something, we have our biggest thing ever
planned. So it's, this is good timing.
When you come out with your cover story about, you know, this big interview with Assange,
we're going to drop something, but they didn't say what it was.
And it turns out that it was this collection of a quarter million state department cables,
which are like, you know, secret communications between all of the embassies in the world.
Is that when that one communicate, the communications came out between, uh,
like Victoria Newland and the guy, Gregory Piat, who is the guy in Ukraine.
He was the, he was the US head of the embassy in Ukraine.
And there was like some conversations where they were trying to install,
install a coup in Ukraine, like install a new leader of Ukraine.
And they're like having a discussion, like, oh, we should get this guy.
Maybe this guy, well, can we get Biden to sign off on this guy?
I think that was a part of Cablegate, maybe.
I wouldn't be surprised. I mean, the thing is, like, it's a gigantic trove of,
the way of, like, documents to show how the US really thought about international relations.
Um, and it will be, it will be studied and used for decades.com.
I mean, it is like an archive of, of incredible, like, material.
Um, you know, I, I, I didn't like write about every revelation.
And like, you can write whole books and people have about what they revealed.
I was interested in like how it was obtained and like the, the techniques and the methods
and the thinking of WikiLeaks and like how they wanted to, um, explode institutional secrecy,
which they really effectively, they did very well, you know, and, um, would continue to do,
like, in interesting ways for years to come.
I mean, like, we can get into WikiLeaks role in 2016, which is more, I know.
We haven't even talked about my second book, which is about Russian hackers and like,
yes, you know, the GRU military intelligence agency, which, um, which ties in with their, like,
yeah, I'm really interested in talking about that.
We're going to have to do another podcast.
Yeah, I'd be happy to.
I mean, um, there's, yeah, I think as you can tell, like, Tracer's in the dark, this new book,
like it does kind of, um, it, it's like the culmination of like a decade of reporting for me.
That's kind of about the dark web and about cryptocurrency, which I was like,
which when it appeared was this new fascination.
But then I, I took like this year's long, um, detour that I'm still on somewhat.
So like cover state sponsored hacking and cyber war.
And like, that's still, um, a big part of what I cover.
I mean, it's all, it's all part of that hacker world, but like, um, but I'm going to have,
I'm going to have him order you an Uber.
So we keep talking and we don't have to sit here and wait for 10 minutes.
Yeah.
So I like, so I spent some years and I still am covering that world of state
sponsored hackers who are really very, very different from the hacker
undergrounds of like whatever the dark web or the hacktivist community that I was really
interested in and like, you know, a decade ago, uh, they, they don't talk.
They, um, they're incredibly sophisticated comparatively, you know, and, um,
Yeah.
The Russiagate story is crazy too.
I was listening to something this morning, uh, from Glenn Greenwald talking about Russiagate
and he had an amazing quote about it.
He said, Russiagate is the WMD of our generation.
I disagree with Glenn Greenwald about a lot of that.
Oh, do you really?
Yeah.
So, um, I, I think I appreciate his skepticism and, um, I think that like, uh, there were
definitely parts of like, of Russiagate that were overblown, you know, the people were
looking for that smoking gun of like collusion or whatever.
Um, I was not truly like, I, I, um, but I, I don't know, man, this is like a big topic
to open up with at the end of that.
I know, right?
We have five minutes talking about Russiagate.
Yeah, our conversation.
No, I'll just say this much and I think Glenn Greenwald has, um, come around on this too.
The GRU hacked the DNC and the Democratic, uh, uh, and the Clinton campaign and the DCCC
and leaked that information to WikiLeaks.
And everything, like everything that was published by WikiLeaks was part of a Russian,
of a, of a GRU information operation.
Like all of those, you know, parceled out leaks that kind of dominated so many of the
headlines of the 2016 election were absolutely engineered by Russian state-sponsored hacking.
And like, I, I've, uh, I mean, this is truly a fucking can of worms.
Cause I thought there was no evidence though.
Like the FBI's long report that, that, that came out, there was no actual evidence that
Russia had hacked it.
Is that?
No, there, there is evidence.
There is evidence.
Absolutely.
And, and I, there's some evidence that like, you know, is, is just laid out in like, uh,
kind of Department of Justice indictments where you can see what they did, but they don't
exactly tell you how they found it.
There, there's other evidence that you can see just flat out like sitting in public,
from cybersecurity companies who like pointed out like, look what we found.
And cybersecurity companies, by the way, when they get things wrong,
another one jumps on them and says, look, we're going to debunk this.
Like the whole cybersecurity, I would say, researcher community knew that Russia had
done this right off the bat.
And yes, there was well-founded, you know, well, well, I would say very risk, very
warranted skepticism about it.
But there's a kind of like community that, that, you know, that, uh, through a process
of like checking each other's work found.
Yes.
Like this looks solid.
Really looks like the GRU hacked the DNC.
Oh yeah.
And now, um, the, and now the hacker who seems to have done it says that he gave this off
to WikiLeaks, who was Guccifer 2.0.
The, the actual evidence of like how, I don't know.
I, I don't mean to like point people to a competitor, but I talked through all of this
with Julian.
Oh, did you?
Yes.
Uh, and uh, Julian Dory and like,
Oh, Dory.
Okay.
Oh, yes.
Not Julian Assange.
That would be a difference.
Um, uh, I don't know if you can, I mean, you and Julian are friends, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Julian's amazing, man.
Smart guy.
And he, you know, is skeptical about this too, as I think you are.
But in the first episode that we did, um, you know, we walked, I tried my best on the spot.
I wasn't really like, it was just off the top of my head to walk him through the evidence
that I remember, um, remember, just like, you know, off, uh, you know, on the spot,
that shows that it was Russian hackers who hacked the DNC.
So from what I understood was that the Hillary campaign tried to get hackers inside Ukraine
to get dirt on the Trump campaign.
And then it sort of backfired and it ended up being this,
this whole Russia gate thing.
And then the media narrative kind of like spun out of control and was all one way.
We, we should, we could do a whole podcast just on this.
We should.
Well, I'll just say this, like, let me just say, like, try to say this as quickly as I can,
because it's, and it's super tech, it's not super technical, but it's a bit technical.
Yeah.
But the same hackers who like, um,
Your driver will be here in four minutes.
So we got four minutes.
You're on the clock.
The same hackers who sent a phishing email to John Podesta that they used to, to like,
fake a Google login, get his account, um, information.
This was a group called Fancy Bear.
You can see, um, they, they made the mistake of like using, um, a URL shortening service
to create those phishing web pages.
And, um, because they use one service, you can kind of identify a pattern in all of the URLs
that they created.
And so you can actually see like everyone that they targeted and several groups, um,
companies have like, um, mapped out like basically where they sent all those phishing
emails as a result.
And it is like, Ukrainians, um, people in NATO, like people critical of Russia in U.S.
academia, um, it is like very much like, uh, it, it just said like, try to highlight,
not even just who they are, but their motivations.
They look like people extremely aligned with Russian state interests, not Ukrainian
interests, for instance.
So like, um, but then also like the very first, uh, leaks that were published by Guccifer
2.0, uh, after the DNC was hacked, Guccifer 2.0 was the kind of color name for the hacker.
They, they came up with this name pretending to be like a sequel to Guccifer, who was a
true independent hacker.
Guccifer 2.0 published some of these emails.
They were in the Word documents.
They were Russian language formatting errors.
Like they loaded them and edited them on a computer with Russian as its default language.
Wow.
That's pretty like pretty bad, right?
I mean, um, there's, uh, ultimately though, I just think that like, and yeah, I think even
Glenn Greenwald agreed to this eventually, like when you, when the FBI like publishes
a full indictment with like listing all of this evidence, uh, and like even like the search
terms used by these hackers, because clearly they got that stuff from certain, you know,
Google or whoever, like that is a conspiracy that is pretty easy to debunk if, if like the
stuff listed in this indictment is just fully false.
Like all of it, it would just take so much.
It's just like eventually just on top of the things that I just mentioned quickly is just
the preponderance of the evidence suggests, yes, Russia hacks the DNC.
I mean, uh, of course they did.
Like, I don't know, uh, clearly like, um, there were sort of like, it's just become
such a part of like this very polarized debate that I feel like these sides are not talking
to each other, but, but like the people who are saying this story, you just told about
Hillary Clinton and Ukraine and stuff like, how, how do they account for this like blatant
glaring evidence of like Russian fingerprints on this stuff?
Right. Right.
Well, it is true that, that Hillary's campaign had a very tight relationship with the leader
of Ukraine at that time and they were constantly going back and forth, dealing with them and
especially during that time and, you know, going back to Maidan and all that.
But that's neither here nor there.
Yeah. I mean, I've, I've, I've spent a lot of time in Ukraine too.
And, um, I, you know, Ukraine, like I remember I visited the embassy and even the state department
officials I spoke to were like, this place is so fucking complicated.
Yeah.
Like, um, uh, you like, nothing is like what it seems here.
I was kind of freaked out talking to them, but, um, but you know, I've, I've also found that
like, and I think it's become more clear cut, like that yes, Ukraine is the victim of like a
massive amount of Russian oppression over decades, centuries, and now a full year of full scale
invasion. So like, I, I don't know. Like I'm, yes, I think it made sense for the U.S. to support
Ukraine at that time and to support the Maidan revolution. Yes. I mean, like I'm, I guess I'm
like a kind of just straight up pro-Ukrainian person, although I, I acknowledge that they're,
you know, as I've said, there's corruption there. There's like extremism of certain kinds.
It's like, I'm not a Ukrainian nationalist, but I, but I'm a Ukraine supporter.
Um, there's, there's a lot of, a lot of meat on the bone there. I want to get into you with,
and I want to do another podcast soon. We got to figure that out. But your ride is here. So
everyone, I will link, uh, just, uh, put a link to your book, your new book, Traces in the Dark
in the Description. Uh, people want to learn more. I highly suggest listening to the episodes
you did with Julian Dory on his podcast. They're fucking fascinating. They cover every single
detail. Um, where else can people go to learn more about what you're doing and find, find you on the
web? Yeah, you can find me on like, that's my, that's my personal website. You can find me on
wire too, and just see what I'm up like writing on a daily basis. But yeah, my website does like,
I usually put up like the big, like, uh, deep dive features that I do. Like I do only like,
you know, a couple of those a year. Um, but yeah, I appreciate it. Um, yeah, my website's
AndyGreenberg.net. Um, cool. I'll link it all below. Yeah. Thank you so much for coming in.
Thank you for this. Clearly, we have more to talk about next time.
My pleasure. Let's get you on your flight. Cool.
