Before we go into your history, just tell people listening basically why you got in
trouble.
Why did you go to prison?
It was a federal indictment for conspiracy to counterfeit US obligations.
Okay, so you were manufacturing money?
Yes.
I was selling them, passing them myself, and yeah, manufacturing.
Wow.
And how much money did you create and how did you go about, how did you just get into
this?
How did you get into making and manufacturing your own money?
You're making $100 bills?
Yeah, I mean, I did 20s and 50s, but it comes to a point to where every $20 bill is pointless
when you could do 100.
I mean, it's just maximize the profit.
And, you know, basically I read, when I was like 19, I saw this book with the art of making
money.
It's about a counterfeiter up in Chicago, Art Williams.
And, you know, I read that and it just kind of like.
Get a little bit closer to the mic.
Basically, you know, the best way to make money as far as I was concerned was making
money, you know.
So I just studied, you know, read as many things as I could.
I read that book, which kind of inspired me to try it, you know.
And I took like one or two of the methods that he used, which was good methods, but
I tweaked them.
And so basically he was using like two pieces of paper and gluing them together to embed
a strip in a watermark.
So I went that route.
That's obviously the best way to do it.
There's a lot of people that like will take $5 bills and bleach them and print hundreds
on them.
But then the strip still says USA5 and it's a different watermark and all that.
So, but I wanted to make them from scratch.
So basically I started doing it a little bit when I was 19 or 20.
I made some money and then just stopped.
You know, I didn't want to get caught.
It was just a quick thing.
So back when I moved to Knoxville and kind of got myself in a desperate financial situation,
I knew I could fall back on that, you know what I mean?
And I decided to start doing it again.
So you were good at it.
That's what I've been told.
When you first did it, were you doing it specifically just because you needed to make money or were
you doing it like, hey, let me see if I could be good at this.
This will be fun to try.
Or was it just desperation?
Well, I mean, at first it was desperation, obviously, like at first.
And then so my plan was to kind of like, you know, make these hundreds, kind of sell them
to people I knew for, you know, $0.25 on the dollar.
So if I were to sell you $10,000, you know, you give me two grand or $2,500 for it.
And that was kind of my original plan was to just do that a few times to make enough money
to get into a new house and, you know, to live until I found another job and this and that.
But after I did it, you know, I wanted a buddy of mine that I worked with at that sign company
ended up being like a really large drug dealer, which I didn't even know.
I went over to his house one day and all this.
Like I knew he sold some weed, maybe a little bit of Coke, but I went over to his house one day
and he had like bricks of, you know, heroin, meth, cocaine, all this stuff.
So basically I gave him the idea.
I'm like, listen, I used to counterfeit.
I can make these bills.
And if you want to re-up in Atlanta, go down to Atlanta and re-up with your, you know, supply.
You can throw some of these in there.
So we kind of did that as like a trial run.
He went to Atlanta bought, I'm not sure the exact amount, but I think I gave him like $5,000.
And I think it was 20s at first and it, you know, everything went fine.
So started kind of perfecting the hundreds, which, so like the two, I found that basically the best paper to use
for sandwiching two sheets together was Bible paper.
It's really, really thin and opaque to where you could, you know, print the front of a bill and the back of a bill
and then on the back of the back print a strip and a watermark.
And then like mist on a little bit of Gorilla Glue spray, squeegee them together.
You know, I had a piece of glass with LED lights behind it so you could see through the bills to line everything up.
Wow.
Squeegee them together and then I found the counterfeit pens are a chemical reaction.
So when you test a bill, it's iodine based ink.
So the iodine in the ink reacts to starch in the paper, which turns it black.
So real money, it stays yellow, you know what I mean, and counterfeit will stay black.
So I figured out that spraying the bills with a lacquer spray.
It's basically like clear spray paint, a matte lacquer basically created a barrier, you know, and prevented the chemical reaction.
Between the pen and the paper, you know what I mean.
So and I tweak things here and there and find different methods that worked significantly well.
Like once you glue the bills together, if you spray a thick coat first to make sure that the counterfeit pens don't, you know, react with the starch in the paper.
And then let that dry and then spray another coat from a distance.
It kind of mists on and it gives it a texture.
So like basically and I sometimes iron iron the bills just a little bit to make them nice and crispy and, you know, rigid.
And I found this iridescent green eye shadow, which is basically just a color shifting pigment that they sell as makeup.
And I could take, it's like a shader pen, which is an invisible ink pen and dip it in the eye shadow and color on the little color shifting 100 in the corner.
And there was invisible ink UV pens, which like are basically marketed to like little girls diaries, you know, I mean, you can write in the diary and nobody can read it.
And then you shine the black light.
And so I found those in red ink.
So I take a ruler over where the strip is and draw a line that way.
If anybody put the bills in a black light, the strip would appear to glow red as well.
So I knew like with all those features beat, you know, there's really no way that anyone could prove that these bills were fake if they even suspected it.
You know what I mean? Because it marks with the pen.
It's got the strip in the water market and color shifting ink.
It glows in the backlight.
The only way that really you could tell is if you put it in a machine to check the magnetic ink, like a bill validator or money counters at banks.
So by the time the bills hit the bank, the bank would discover they were fake.
But at that point, you know, it would be a week later.
Nobody on the street could ever find out.
No, I've had bankers at one time.
I went into a Chinese food restaurant and went to break it.
And it was this little old Chinese woman.
She like she was holding it up and she wasn't sure.
So she she one of her regular customers was a banker and he was sitting over there.
So she had he's like, Oh, is this bill real and gave it to him?
And he said it was real.
So I've had a drug deal.
I mean, one drug dealer, I gave him a bill and told them that they were fake.
I was like, you know, you want to start buying these from me?
He didn't believe me that, you know, that they were fake.
Because once they mark with them, I mean, everybody just marks it with a pen or, you know, holds it up to look for a strip or a watermark or, you know what I mean?
What does that actually do when they mark them with the pen?
Basically, it's a it's so it's a ink in the pen that's iodine based.
Okay.
That iodine reacts with starch.
So all paper is treated with starch, except for, you know, currency money.
Okay.
So if you if you mark any, any regular paper, it'll mark black because the iodine reacts with that starch and turns black, whereas real money doesn't.
So it stays yellow.
So it's just a way to, you know, the pens are, you know, to detect counterfeit currency.
But like I said, I would spray my bills with a lacquer.
That's what the lacquer did.
So when you go to mark the paper, you're really not touching the paper because there's a clear code of lacquer over it to separate the pen from the paper.
Okay.
It seems like a very intricate process and a long, long process.
Like how like when you started doing this at scale, like printing thousands and thousands of dollars, like I can't imagine what like how would your process change?
Like you're doing this with Bible paper still?
Yeah.
And like the hardest part was acquiring the Bible paper, really.
I would take road trips all up the East Coast pretty much to go to cities to go to bookstores and rip out blank pages because the Bible has like anywhere from two to 20 blank pages in the back usually.
So, you know, if you go into a Barnes and Noble or bookstore or whatever and open a Bible and I just have a little razor knife and cut 10 blank pages out, do that over and over again.
So say if there's five blank pages in each Bible and you're in a bookstore with 100 Bibles, you know, I mean, that's 500 pages, which is, you know, you could make 2550 grand off of one bookstore.
Wow.
So I mean, it got to the point where eventually I'd already been to every bookstore in Knoxville, Chattanooga, Atlanta, up to Lexington, Cleveland.
Holy shit.
But yeah, so I was basically selling, I wanted to just sell these bills to people.
And not use them?
No, I did.
I was nervous, you know what I mean?
Because like I knew, like I would constantly, you know, analyze these bills, always try and make them better.
And you know what I mean?
But you kind of get in your head, you wonder, like, I think they look good, but you sit there and look at something all day, every day, you wonder if, you know.
You're paying attention to the finest details.
Exactly.
You're paying attention to everything that's wrong with them probably, right?
Yeah.
So the first time I went, I think for whatever reason, I just grew the balls, walked into a Taco Bell and she held it up and boom, cast it.
No problem.
So, okay, you know, they kind of started doing more shopping sprees, you know what I mean?
You hit up a couple more places, they take it, no problem.
Every other time they'd either mark it with the pen or hold it up.
A couple people sometimes would, you know, analyze it a little bit, but like I said, there's every feature is beat.
I mean, the bills looked pretty much perfect.
You know what I mean?
I changed all the serial numbers on each bill that way.
You never had more than one bill with the same serial number.
You know, so, and there's different ways to like do it without getting caught.
Obviously, you know, you park in like a parking lot over here and, you know, walk a few hundred feet just so no cameras in the parking lot can maybe get your license plate or whatever.
So you might park in one section over here and then like walk to a mall or in an area with lots of businesses and you could just hit up, you know, each business.
So that was way more profitable than, I mean, I also sold them too.
But, you know, for $10,000, I could sell it for $2,500 or I could just go spend $10,000.
You know, so once I got the confidence like, yeah, these are all passing, no problem.
You know, I started doing both.
Just selling them to multiple drug dealers throughout Knoxville.
It's buying prepaid Visa cards, getting money orders.
Oh, wow.
You know what I mean?
If I found like prepaid Visa cards have like a $3 fee added on to it.
So if you get $100 prepaid Visa card, it'll be like $103, $104.
So you give them $200 bills and you get $95 change and $100 prepaid Visa card.
And if you go to like a Walmart and hit up like the electronic center, register, garden center, couple registers up front.
I mean, you're making $1,000 just for that, you know, that one Walmart.
And I just hit up stores like that all day, every day for years.
At what point or was there a point where things kind of got sketchy or where to your at the point where you're thinking in your head?
Like this might be a little bit too good to be true.
Like I got to start watching my back a little bit more like this.
It can't be this.
I can't be right.
This gravy train is not going to last forever.
Yeah.
What point did shit start to get go sideways?
Well, my original plan was to just sell them to drug dealers, basically.
But ultimately I had a drug habit at the time as well.
So a lot of it was ripping off drug dealers, you know, buying the heroin with it, you know.
So most of the guys, like I'd get one drug dealer for, you know, spend $500, $500, $1,000, you know,
until it kind of stacked up to where I got this guy for, you know, $10,000, $5,000, something like that.
And usually the guys weren't even mad if they did find out because they were able to.
I mean, it was just like money.
They used it too, right?
Yeah.
They could go re-up.
They went to the store.
So a lot of the guys, if they did find out, they were just like,
Holy shit, you got me.
Like, you know what I mean?
Good job.
And now they wanted to buy them from me because now they knew that they were fake.
They'd be like, well, if you're going to buy 500.
That's a weird thing, right?
It's kind of like you screwed me, but I didn't get screwed.
Yeah.
They respect the game, you know.
They chalk it up as a loss, but they didn't really lose anything.
So they were just, you know, impressed.
They were like, oh shit, you made these all right.
Keep selling them to me.
Or, you know, maybe like I'd keep buying heroin from them.
But instead of giving them $100 for a gram, I'd give them $400 for a gram because they knew it was fake now.
You know what I mean?
So you kind of just do that.
And if, if, see in Knoxville, most of the drug dealers are from out of town, like people from Detroit and Cleveland, Chicago, Atlanta, all go to Knoxville.
Why is that?
I think like bigger cities like Detroit, it seems like there's lots of drug dealers there.
You know what I mean?
So they just kind of branch out and go to these mid-level cities.
You know what I mean?
Knoxville is not big, but it's not small.
There's money there.
There's a lot of drug addicts there.
So you've got a lot of people from out of town.
Like it's known in Knoxville that Detroit boys is what everybody calling Detroit boys because it's just a group, a large group of people from Flint, Michigan, Detroit, Michigan.
And I was doing business with a lot of those guys.
Yeah.
I mean, Tennessee is known for being like, there's so many, there's so many like oxy documentaries in Tennessee.
It's crazy.
Like just, just like the opioid epidemic ripped through Tennessee.
Yeah.
It's heroin now.
Fentanyl.
Straight up heroin.
It's fentanyl.
Fentanyl.
Really?
Yeah.
People purposely taking fentanyl?
Oh yeah.
For sure.
Really?
I mean, there are still people that kind of deny its existence.
You know, no, this is real heroin, but it's all, I mean, it's all real fentanyl.
The crazy thing now that people are talking about is like people that are, they say people that buy cocaine are accidentally overdosing on fentanyl.
Yeah.
It's all like a, like it seems like a weird thing because fentanyl is the opposite of cocaine.
Yeah.
Right?
So if somebody's overdosing on fentanyl and they're buying cocaine, it seems like it would
be counterintuitive to the person that's selling that cocaine.
Yeah, I agree.
I'm not sure if there's, I mean, obviously there's cases where people overdose.
Like you're not going to cut cocaine with fentanyl.
No.
Well, I would think so.
Their customers obviously aren't going to like that.
And I could think of as either a, because fentanyl is physically addictive, they might add a little bit in to get people like physically hooked on it.
Or, I mean, fentanyl is so potent that like literally a tiny, like if you had fentanyl in a Ziploc bag and you poured it out to make your heroin or whatever, and there was even residue left in that bag.
If you then put cocaine in that bag, there's still enough fentanyl to hurt someone that doesn't have a tolerance to it.
Right.
And it would make more sense that like, if say a drug dealer was selling, because I know that they cut heroin with fentanyl, right?
Yeah.
So if like a drug dealer sold heroin and sold coke, maybe they cut it up on the same table and a little bit of fentanyl accidentally got into the cocaine.
That would make sense.
Yeah, for sure.
But they would never purposely cut.
And you've got to think, people who are cutting heroin with fentanyl are probably cutting their coke too.
With something else.
With creatine or anacetol or something.
Right.
So if they use the same blender to mix up their products.
You know, I'm sure there's cases like that, but everything's circumstantial.
You know what I mean?
I'm sure there's probably are people that do purposely throw fentanyl in it.
Just who knows, you know?
Yeah.
But I think it's different cases for, you know, everybody.
Just shit happens.
So people are really fucked up on fentanyl in Tennessee right now?
Yeah.
Meth and heroin.
Well, they say, like I said, they say heroin.
It's really, it's mostly fentanyl.
Everything I've seen.
It's like just plain white powder, which is heroin.
You know, but yeah, it's pretty bad in Knoxville.
Meth too.
Meth is a big one.
Really?
Oh yeah.
When did fentanyl start becoming a big thing out there?
Well, I guess in the country.
I'm from Tampa.
So I mean, the last eight years I've lived in Knoxville.
And when I first moved there, it was still like pills, like Roxy.
Yeah.
But they just got too expensive.
I mean, I'd say I started noticing fentanyl probably five, six years ago.
You know?
But it's like, I mean.
They say it's like 10 times more potent than morphine, right?
Oh, it's more than that.
More than 10 times.
Well, there's different kinds too.
There's like fentanyl, car fentanyl.
And then there's other designer, you know, U47700, which is like just, you know,
random designer drugs.
But yeah, they're super strong obiates nowadays.
They're making China and ship over here.
Knoxville is bad.
Like if you walk to a gas station, you'll probably have one or two people pull up
and offer you heroin.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that, I mean, that was good as far as having counterfeit money.
Strangers come up to you and offer to sell you drugs.
Of course you're going to help buy some and give them fake money.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Right.
Sure.
Especially if you're never going to see them again, right?
I try to keep doing business with them, but there was also like sketchy points when,
you know, you wonder if they did find out, if they're pissed off, you don't want to
call them the next day to buy more if they found out.
So you really have to, you know, read people over the phone.
Like I said, in my case, luckily, most people, you know, weren't angry.
You know what I mean?
Right.
There was one guy that, the guy that actually ultimately set me up with the feds.
When I first met him, I was basically like my roommate, roommate, this girl was getting
heroin from him, you know, with my money.
And we got him for probably, I'd say close to 10 grand over the course of like a few
weeks or something.
And I guess he's one of his, the bills was in his pocket and it was raining.
That color shifting, the makeup that I paint on wiped off because it got wet.
So he ultimately found out that the bills were fake.
And I pulled in my driveway one day and he was standing in my driveway like yelling at
my roommate.
So I'm like, oh fuck, this is going to be a problem.
You know what I mean?
But he didn't know that they were coming for me.
He was, because she was the one getting it.
So I just walked by and hear him yell.
And you know, he's like, I don't care.
I'm not mad.
I just want to know where the fuck you got him from.
So when I heard that, I started selling him to him.
You know what I mean?
I basically said like, listen, they're coming for me.
I'll sell them to you for 20, 25 cents on the dollar.
So he was buying anywhere from $5, $10,000 worth every time he'd go up to Cleveland to
re-up.
Like he'd go and pick up a brick, a kilo heroin or whatever, usually cut it to two.
But nonetheless, he'd want at least like 10 grand worth of my bills to mix in with,
you know, his real money.
Really?
So he would give you 10 grand and you would give him 40 grand?
No, I never did that much.
It was more like I'd give him 10 and he'd give me 2,500.
Oh, okay.
I mean, I had multiple different people that I was doing those kind of deals with.
Yeah.
But, you know, he'd normally buy like a brick at a time.
So, you know, if he was spending 40 grand, he'd want 10, maybe 15,000 of my money to mix
in with it.
You know what I mean?
So we were mixing in this fake money with real money.
So there, I mean, it's hard to, you couldn't tell that the bills were fake if I had to
do one and told you they were fake, let alone mixing it in with, you know, $40,000 of other
real money.
You just mix it in randomly.
Yeah.
And so I had a couple different, like a group of a couple of different guys from Cleveland,
probably about five different guys from Detroit, couple guys from Atlanta, and then, you know,
there's random other people that were from Knoxville.
But, you know, so.
So you said this is the guy that initially set you up?
Yeah.
Eventually he was the one.
How far into this shit did you get before he set you up?
Like how long did you, were you working with him?
With, I was doing the counterfeiting thing for about two years.
I think he came in the picture, probably the last, I want to say six, eight months, like
we had a good, you know, so like, like I said, the Bible paper thing, it was hard to come
by.
So after going to bookstores and all that, so I basically I was, went to a hotel one day
and went in the end table to get the Bible to, you know, get a couple pieces of paper
out of it or whatever.
And it wasn't there.
So I waved down the maintenance man and was like, hey, there's not a Bible in my room,
can you get me a Bible?
So he was like, yeah, I'll get you one.
I'll be right back.
I was like, you know what, you guys not key Bibles in the nightstand anymore?
And he's like, no, we stopped doing that.
I got boxes full of Bibles in the maintenance closet.
So I was like, you know, like, give me those by, I'll pay you for those boxes.
You know what I mean?
I got a lot of praying in here.
And that particular guy actually, like, I think I gave him like a hundred bucks for
all these boxes, Bibles or something.
And so I got him in the room.
There's probably like five boxes I went through, took all the blank pages and then just went
and threw the boxes in the dumpster.
You know, so he noticed that and he was like, I remember he was like asking me like, why
the fuck did you just pay me for these Bibles and then throw them away?
You know, it didn't make sense to him.
But yeah, so we started basically paying maintenance men at different hotels to, you know,
bring me boxes of Bibles, which that definitely increased the production, you know.
So this guy was going up to Cleveland.
How many bills could you fit in one Bible page?
It depends.
Like your typical Bible about like this that you'd find in the hotel room or something.
It's just one side per page.
So like, because I'm printing the front and the back.
So like those, you know, out of there's usually like about four pages in those little Bibles.
So I mean, it's worth 200 bucks.
So it's not that you needed to get lots of them.
But there's other specific types of Bibles, like for instance, the Jeremiah study Bible.
Specifically, it's a study Bible.
So the back was full of blank pages to take notes on.
It said like notes at the top and it was just like 30 blank pages.
And the Bible was probably, you know, this big notes or print notes.
That's all right.
So you could fit probably three sides, like a front, a back and another front on one page.
And, you know, there was say 40 blank pages.
So, you know, what's what is that 40 times times three?
120.
I mean, the one Bible is worth about 10 grand.
Okay.
You know what I mean?
So like if you go into a Barnes and Noble, for instance, there's probably two or three copies of the Jeremiah study Bible and get those.
And then, you know, random other ones.
I mean, like I said, a bookstore, you could probably get about say 50, at least 50,000 worth of paper from one bookstore.
But most cities only have like two bookstores in the city.
You know what I mean?
So you go to Chattanooga, but you hit the two bookstores there.
You know, that's 50, 50, $100,000 out of Chattanooga.
You know, you go to Atlanta, there's say three bookstores there.
There's 150 out of Atlanta.
But it comes to a point to where I went to Atlanta, Chattanooga, Knoxville, you know, Severeville, Lexington, Cleveland.
You know, you just because when you're busting these bills, you also want to travel around.
You know what I mean?
I think I think the number that I spent in Knoxville was like $380,000 throughout businesses in Knoxville, which that I got a little ballsy.
You spent $380,000, not just on Bibles, but like spending the money.
No, just shopping.
But to bust, to convert that money into, you know, real money, you'd go shopping.
You'd buy something for 10, 20 bucks.
What kind of shit were you buying?
Just random shit.
I got the time, you know, I had a heroin habit.
So it was converted to cash.
And then, you know, I'd buy Visa cars to pay for the hotel rooms and, you know, had some designer bags, jewelry, shit like that.
I mean, nothing was no like Ferraris.
No.
I mean, you know, just living, living comfortably.
Right.
Right.
Wow.
So how did this guy eventually set you up?
So one day he told me he was like, oh, I bought this.
It was, I think a 2009 charger or something.
I guess one of these dudes that was buying dope from him was like, oh, he sold him a car for like, I think it was $500 and an eight ball of heroin.
For a 2009 charger.
So I was like, bro, that's a stolen car.
100%.
He's like, no, the guy gave me a title.
He's like, it's all good.
I'm going to go register it.
I was like, bro, you bought that from a junkie for $500.
Bro, it's a fucking stolen car.
I promise you.
Either way, he was convinced because he had the title.
The guy has a title.
So I was supposed to go up to Cleveland with him to, you know, we had maintenance guy that was going to give us some Bibles up there.
I was going to, you know, bust bills throughout the city while he re-upped on some dope.
But like the day before we were supposed to leave, I ended up getting arrested for a failure to appear like a little, little warrant I had.
So I got arrested the next day, bond out, but he already went without me, I guess.
So we were renting a house together and I was kind of, you know, printing the money out of the back and he was selling, selling dope out of the front and we shared this house.
So I bond out of jail on that little charge and I go home and his little runner chick in summer, she basically said like, oh, he went up to Cleveland without you.
So I was like, okay, whatever, you know what I mean?
And then she basically said like, don't, you know, he told me not to tell you this, but he got arrested up in Cleveland.
So instantly I was like, you know, why would he, why would he tell you not to tell me like that sketchy?
You know, it's a red flag for sure.
And I knew at first I figured it was probably that car.
I'm like, I knew that car was stolen, you know what I mean?
But I also knew he was going up there with, he had 20,000 real cash and 5,000 in my bills at the time.
So I knew, you know, whether it was because of the car or not, he most likely got caught with, you know, counterfeit money or heroin, one of the two, you know.
And, you know, by him telling her not to tell me that he got arrested is, in my mind, he's cooperating, you know, and trying to, he's going to set me up or attempt to at some point.
So I got, you know, my computers and printers and I had ventilation fans to spray the lacquer indoors and suck it out the window.
You had like a whole, like, production studio.
Counterfeiting a little setup, you know what I mean?
But when I found out he was locked up, I got everything and went to a hotel.
I was like, fuck this, I'm leaving.
Which I'm, well, I mean, I'm glad I did, but ultimately I got arrested anyway.
But so I'm staying in a hotel and this other group of Detroit guys put in like an order for like $6,000.
So I was, my plan was to wake up, make this $6,000 to give these Detroit guys my, you know, my wife at the time is going to go shopping, whatever.
It was just like a normal day every day.
And this dude, E, the guy from Cleveland calls me.
So he basically was like, hey, I've got these, that book, a box of Bibles for you.
And I was like, well, just hold on to him.
I don't want to meet up right now.
You know what I mean?
Like, I assume he's cooperating.
And he basically say, I was like, eventually basically I was like, why, you know, you just got arrested.
Why didn't you tell me that?
You know what I mean?
Like, why did you tell Summer not to tell me, bro?
You're acting, you're acting fucking sketchy.
And, you know, he had this story, which kind of made sense, but I still didn't trust him.
You know, he basically said, yeah, that car was stolen.
I got arrested for it.
The money I was going to use to buy the dope I had to bond out with.
So I couldn't re up in Cleveland.
So now I'm back in Knoxville and I need to re up.
Can you get me like a 700 grams from your Detroit people?
Which is like, I don't sell, you know, I didn't really sell a lot of drugs like that.
You know what I mean?
So for him to ask me that over the phone after he just got out of jail, like it was a huge red flag.
And he's trying to set me up for things that I don't even do.
You know what I mean?
Like I'm doing the counterfeiting thing.
So basically, like he asked me that and I was like, listen, bro, like we're not having this conversation, especially not over the phone.
You know, what are you talking about?
You're the drug dealer.
I'm not.
Goodbye.
So I hang up.
I guess the GPS pinged my phone, though, to my location.
So they knew they didn't know which room I was in, but they knew that I was in the extended stay hotel in West Knoxville.
So, you know, like I said, that next morning, my wife's going to go shopping.
I was going to print 6000 for this guy.
So they leave and I didn't know this at the time.
But I guess as soon as my wife got in the car and started to pull out, they swarmed her.
You know, I mean, the police, it was Knox, KPD, organized crime unit, drug task force, Cleveland Secret Service, Knoxville Secret Service, you know, multiple different agencies.
So basically, but I didn't know this.
My wife just left to go shopping, you know, so I'm in there hanging paper, spraying it, cutting print and all this stuff.
And I hear a knock on the door.
And I, you know, look through the people and it's just black.
Like somebody's thumb was over the people.
So at first I was thinking like, oh, these is like maybe somebody's trying to rob me or something.
I didn't know.
But I look out the window and I saw a line of Knox County sheriffs.
You know what I mean?
So I go to flush some of the money that I was printing.
I threw a bunch in the toilet and flushed it, you know, went down through a bunch more and went to flush it.
And they shut the water off because they thought I had a bunch of kilos of drugs in there and stuff.
Oh, okay.
So there was a bunch of one-sided, like unfinished counterfeit money all in the toilet and fucking.
So the toilet and flush.
It did the first time, but the second time, I guess.
No good.
But I mean, at that point, I was already in there with, you know, I'm in a hotel room.
There's nowhere to go.
What kind of shit did you have in there?
You had printers in there.
And printers, computers, you know, all the different sprays, my little glass light board to like cut everything on and line everything up with.
And the worst part was the files on the computer.
Oh, really?
All of those serial numbers.
I changed every serial number.
So when they got the computer as evidence, that basically linked me to all these different serial numbers that they found throughout the country.
Yeah.
That was a wrap at that point.
So what was going through your head, bro?
When you were trying to flush that stuff out and you knew those sheriffs were outside?
And then those doors at that hotel was like steel reinforced, so like it took them a long time to kick it in.
Oh, really?
I mean, it took about five minutes.
So you didn't open it?
Hell no.
I mean, you know.
What'd you do?
Why they were trying to kick it in?
I think I just sat there and smoked a cigarette and I was like, man, what are you going to do?
At that point, I think once they started kicking in the door, it was already like bent and fucked up.
So you probably couldn't open it, you know, if I wanted some.
You just sit there and wait for them, you know.
But, yeah, they charged me on...
Originally, first it was state charges until the feds could compile evidence and all.
Because they didn't know who I was until that guy, E, told them like two days before that.
And then they came down from Cleveland to set me up.
So you didn't have any drugs on you when they busted through the door?
I think there was a couple grams.
But nothing like distribute?
No, I mean, I wasn't selling drugs, you know what I mean?
So when they busted through the door, then what happened?
Like what they say to you, what they do to you?
You know, slam your ass on the ground and handcuff me.
You know, they told me, we've got your wife outside, she's in custody.
And there was, you know, an arm like just so many cops everywhere, you know what I mean?
They took me in on state charges of criminal simulation over 60,000.
And, you know, I think it took like two and a half, three months for the feds to finally compile all their evidence.
Because they got a warrant to go through the computer, you know what I mean?
To get all the evidence they needed.
And then they served me in indictment about two and a half, three months later.
Wow.
So you were sitting in like just like a state prison?
No, at first there was just Knox County jail.
You were just in a jail, just like the local jail for months.
And then when the feds got involved, then what happened?
Like what changed once the FBI got involved?
Well, it's a secret service.
They handled financial crimes.
They handled the money shit, right?
But yeah, basically they took me to court one day and my public defender was like, you know, they're dropping their charges on you.
But because I knew the feds were going to pick them up, you know what I mean?
If the state drops them.
So basically they went to court, the state dropped all charges.
And then they walked me across the street to the federal martial building.
And they served me in the indictment for the conspiracy.
At first there was a five count indictment for, let's see, conspiracy to counterfeit U.S. obligations.
Like a couple counts of uttering U.S. obligations.
And I think it was like sale and manufacture of counterfeit U.S. obligations.
So that, you know, eventually I played to just one count of the conspiracy to counterfeit.
Because they'd all run, you know, concur in any way.
So they basically just give you the biggest charge and drop the other ones.
So what did they charge you with?
They charge you with one charge and how long did they sentence you?
Well, originally in the feds it's like a, it's a range, you know what I mean?
You get like, you know, 12 to 18 months or, you know, so it's like, originally I was looking at, it was like three years about give or take.
So they came to me with this deal and said, if you can, you know, plead guilty and show us how you made these bills.
Make a video to train future agents.
You know, basically just to explain all the evidence, what it was, how I learned about it, you know, all that.
And make a training video for future secret service agents.
Then they would not charge my wife and keep the restitution amount under $100,000.
Because that's an enhancement.
So once it was, once you make more than $100,000, you get more time.
You know what I mean?
Because it's like an enhancement in the fed.
So they basically said, they were like, at this point we found $380,000 in Knoxville.
We're still finding about 10 grand a week coming in through the bank.
So they were like, if you plead guilty now, we'll keep it at under 100 and not charge your wife.
So basically I made like a video.
They flew a film crew down to Knoxville and like filmed me making bills.
Really?
In the secret service headquarters.
Really?
Yeah.
What was that like?
So you were imprisoned while you had to film this, right?
Like you were still doing your time?
No, no.
This was, they actually, well they let me out on pretrial release for some months before I was sent.
Okay.
And that's when I did all that.
So the secret service flew a film crew down to your house?
To the secret service headquarters in Knoxville.
You met them there?
Yeah.
Did you like, how did you, did they, did you have to give them like a list of equipment and shit?
Or like, how did that work?
So basically they just went through and asked me like exactly, you know, what certain chemicals
were, why I had certain things, what did I, you know, use them for, how did I find out
that I could use them for, you know what I mean?
Because I had, I would always experiment with stuff, trying to make the bills better, you
know what I mean?
So I had like the, that makeup, right, that I made the color shifting pigment out of.
There was one kind that was the best.
But I had like a bunch of other ones because I'd experiment.
And I was working on doing the new blue notes as well.
And that's got a different color shifts.
So I had stuff to match that color shifting.
A certain type of nail polish mixed in with a color shifting pigment I got online.
If you mix them together, it makes a perfect copper to gold, like on the new hundreds.
So there was stuff like that.
And like I found a, it's like a fine tip ballpoint glue pen.
So it, it, it's like a regular big pen, except it pushes out glue instead of ink.
So like some people to test if a bill's real, they'll scratch the shirt with what they say,
which means you feel the texture.
You know, you kind of run your fingernail along his, his t-shirt on the portrait of the
president to feel the texture.
So I ran across a couple cashiers that would do that.
So I had this little glue pen that I'd draw little lines on real quick to give this rigid texture on the shirt.
Just weird, like little things like that, that they've never, the Secret Service hasn't seen before.
Or was wondering why I had, you know, this, these pens or this, you know, this or that, basically.
Yeah.
And, you know, I basically took my, my computer, you know, printed a couple bills, glued them,
sprayed the lacquer, you know, explained what I was doing.
And, you know, they counted that as, as cooperation to, to give me from three years it got knocked down to 10 months.
Wow.
Yeah.
10 months.
It seems like, I mean, obviously it's a long fucking time, but it doesn't seem like that long for all the shit that you were doing.
I mean, no, it's, it was definitely a blessing, you know, because there was drug dealers that I met in multiple ones,
that I would, they'd find out the bills were fake after I was ripping them off or whatever.
And I'd offer to sell them, sell them the bills and they'd be like, no, I don't want to fuck with that.
You know what I mean?
That's serious shit.
And it's like, there are people, you know, trafficking kilos of heroin with guns on them and stuff.
And they're, they're worried about kind of her bills, you know.
Right.
You weren't doing anything violent.
No, yeah.
So, I mean, the time for, I mean, it's, it's a white collar crime.
So most, most white collar crimes don't look at nearly as much time as drugs and guns.
They don't, they don't like drugs and guns.
So how long did the process take for you to film that training video for the Secret Service?
It was probably like two, two hours.
Two hours.
Three hours.
And how many bills did you make for them?
Oh, just two.
Just two.
I didn't know at the time my, my lawyer was pregnant at the time.
I felt bad after the fact cause I was showing them everything.
And then I take this lacquer spray can and I started spraying it and she was like, oh,
I gotta leave the room.
It like ran out and I didn't think, I was like, oh, I'm sorry.
It smells, you know what I mean?
But later I found out that she was pregnant.
So I felt bad about that.
You know what I mean?
But she is all good with it.
Oh my God.
That's so wild.
So what, what, so you only needed 10 months.
What was the 10 months like?
Was it a low, low security?
Yeah.
Well, it was, it was a administrative facility.
Like a camp?
No, it wasn't a camp.
It was a, it's a low security, basically.
There's camps, lows, you know, medium and highs.
But I went, I was in, I got sentenced and I had to sit in Knox County jail for, you know,
a couple of weeks and then they sent me to Blunt County jail, which is the federal holding
facility for East Tennessee.
I sat there for like a month and then they shipped me to London, Kentucky.
Laurel County is like another federal holding facility.
It's just kind of a holdover until they get you to the, the compound.
And then they sent me to FMC Lexington, which is, like I said, it's an administrative low.
So it houses low, medium and highs, but it's essentially a low, low security.
And, you know, it wasn't bad.
Shot some pool, you know, worked out a little bit.
Really?
Yeah.
What kind of guys did you meet in there?
Matt Cox type people?
No, not, surprisingly not.
I was, I was one of the few, there was a couple guys that did, one dude was doing credit card
fraud, I think.
Okay.
He was like, he owned a company and it was like basically like overcharging people who,
you know, gave him his credit card, like bought a product from him and then he like overcharge
him and then refund him and he had some kind of scam to where he made it, made out on top.
And, man, in Lexington, Kentucky, it was mostly drugs and guns.
You know what I mean?
We're in a lot of white, I was one of the few like white collar criminals.
I was the only counterfeiter there.
Really?
Actually, there was one guy that was counterfeiting checks.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's super rare for people to counterfeit that amount of bills, right?
Like you said in the beginning of this that you were one of like how many that have been,
that have served federal time for doing that?
There's a lot of people that have served time for counterfeiting, but most in the Secret
Service told me this.
They said they were like, these are the best bills we've seen in 25 years.
Really?
And he was like, the majority of all their counterfeiting cases are like, you know, teenagers,
you know, just photocopying, you know, and they don't look good and they usually print
a thousand dollars and then get caught and then, you know what I mean?
So, there's not a lot of like professional counterfeiters out there.
You know, I only know of like two, you know, Matt was saying he did the 12 years and he
said, I think he's only met one or two.
That's what he told me today.
He's like, yeah, I've met two people ever and they've done this.
And they were probably just, you know, photocopying bills, you know what I mean?
So, like, it's hard to print money because the printers recognize, if you try to just
print a bill, the printer will recognize it and it won't allow you to print.
You know what I mean?
So, you can go and do a photocopier machine and just make a copy, but then they're going
to look horrible.
You know what I mean?
So, I got around that by instead of scanning the bill, because if you scan it, it'll just
put some like penal code as to why you're not allowed to scan bill money or whatever.
So, I'd take a high resolution camera and take a photo of it and then upload that photo
and then adjust, you know, go take it to Adobe Photoshop, the photo and edit everything
and layer it.
I layered it into three different images.
So, when you went to print it, you weren't just printing one bill.
So, you know, the printer couldn't recognize it.
I'd print like just the background color.
And then I'd print all the black work over it.
And then I'd print the treasury seal and serial numbers.
So, it was multiple different prints.
You printed each layer separately.
Yeah.
So, the printer couldn't recognize that I was printing money.
You know what I mean?
So, it kind of got around.
So, how many layers total?
And then so, you'd print how many layers of this Bible paper?
Well, I mean layers is in like digital.
Right.
Like on Adobe, I'd break it to three different pictures.
Right.
You know, one was just the background color.
Basically, the front of the bills had three different prints.
I'd print three times just in front of the bill.
Okay.
And then the back of the bill, I did two prints.
Oh, on the same piece of paper?
Yeah, yeah.
Got it.
Okay.
So, it's just that beige color of money.
It's just a solid rectangle of that color.
And then you put it back in the printer and print all the ink, you know, the black stuff.
And then put it through again and print the treasury seal and serial numbers.
So, there was three prints for the front, two prints for the back, and then one print
for the strip in the watermark.
Wow.
Yeah.
So, that was tricky.
I had to like, in order to print, because the Bible paper is too thin, it'll jam up in
the printer.
And so, you have to tape it onto a piece of regular printer paper.
So, it's, you know, thick enough to go through and be printed on.
Right.
So, like, I'd always, me and my wife would stay up all night just taping Bible paper
to print until we had a stack like this, you know what I mean?
And then the next day, we'd just run them all through and print them out.
You know, so, it's hard to basically counterfeit.
I mean, most people, when they found out the bills were fake or, you know, knew what I
was doing, they'd instantly be like, I want, you know, sell me a million dollars worth.
And it's like, you know, each bill, you're literally hand-crafting.
You know what I mean?
Right.
You're printing, it's saying multiple prints.
And then you've got to cut them out, spray them with, you know, if you spray too much
Gorilla Glue, it'll fuck up and be too thick.
Right.
If you don't spray enough, it'll, the pieces will separate.
So, you know, it became a fine art of, you know, spraying just the right amount, gluing
them together, making sure they're lined up and then spraying the lacquer, a thick coat
first, a thinner coat to give it that texture.
You don't want to spray too much lacquer because then it'll be too thick.
It won't feel right.
So, I mean, it was a real like fine tooth process of, you know, getting them just right.
But after doing it, after about three, four or five months, I got to where, you know,
it would take me, I could probably make like a perfect counterfeit hundred and ten minutes.
Really?
So, usually every day I'd make at least, even if nobody had any orders or anything, I'd
make at least 25 bills, 2,500 bucks every day.
And that was just like the money I needed to survive.
You know what I mean?
I was spending at least 2,500 a day.
Really?
Yeah.
On drugs?
Well, not all drugs, but, you know, by my drugs for the day, you know, we had this nanny that
was working for us that, you know, in hotel rooms, out to dinners.
2,500 bucks a day.
That's a lot.
You're like the Tinder swindler.
No.
I haven't seen that.
I'd like to watch that.
Oh, my God.
It's fucking insane.
But you got to think 2,500 in counterfeit hundreds, like in order to bust that and convert
it to real money, you know, you're going and buying something for $10, $20.
So, you know, you buy some worthless shit for $20.
You don't need just to bust that bill.
So, out of that 2,500, you know, you're really getting a bunch of shit from Walmart and whatever
that you, you know, may need, you may not need or whatever.
But so, you're probably getting, you know, 2,000 out of that 2,500, even just spending
them at stores.
Right.
So, but yeah, 2,000 a day was kind of my standard minimum amount of...
Has anybody ever, since you got out, has anyone asked you for any, like, custom artwork
or something?
No.
Custom artwork of currency?
I've had some people want me to start counterfeiting.
Again?
Yeah.
Oh, shit.
You can do it because they find out my story and find out, you know, they want me to sell
them, but you should make more and sell them.
But, you know, I'm not sure.
What have you, do you still, like, run in the same circles?
Like, have the same talk to the same people or has it been, like, difficult to kind of,
like, recalibrate your life since you got out?
Yeah, I mean, I, you know, I'm sober now.
I've been sober for, like, two years now.
So, I don't really associate with any of those people anymore.
It's mostly just, like, drug dealers and, you know, so...
Do you think you would have got, I mean, you probably wouldn't have got sober if you didn't
go to prison, right?
Probably not.
Probably not.
I mean, honestly, it definitely helped, you know, all around.
It's for the best.
You know what I mean?
I was kind of living a crazy life for a long time, so...
Has it been hard to adjust since you've gotten out?
Like, has it been difficult to, like, find a place to live, to get work?
And, like, what's that been like?
Well, I just got out, like, three months ago.
Oh, did you really?
Yeah.
But luckily, I found a good job, man.
It's working at a print shop, so...
Yeah.
I, you know, when I was honest with them up front, I told them, like, listen, I'm on,
you know, supervised release for counterfeiting.
And, you know, they're all cool guys where I work.
So they...
I mean, obviously, your skill with, like, graphic design, Photoshop, and that kind of
shit, right?
Do they respect that?
I mean, like, wow, you can actually, like, apply that to something useful.
And I've been in that trade, like, I was in the sign business before.
So signs and graphics are all pretty related, you know what I mean?
So I've worked at a couple print shops, vinyl shops beforehand.
So I've got experience in it on top of the, you know, illegal experience.
But yeah, they were, you know, they hired me, and they're really cool.
Understanding if I have to, you know, miss work to go to probation or whatever.
They're all good, man.
I've really lucked out with that job.
Hey, you ever talked to or met any...
Obviously, I think you said you mentioned you met a guy in prison that did counterfeit
credit cards.
Did Matt mention that guy John Boziak to you?
Yeah, we talked about him.
He showed me a little sizzle reel or something for a documentary or something he's putting
out.
He was doing something similar to what you were doing, where he was in a room basically
printing out and forging credit cards.
Yeah.
I saw, actually, I think I saw the concrete episode.
Oh, did you really?
Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
His story was fucking crazy.
Yeah.
I mean, once, like, he was, I'm sure, doing the same thing as far as, like, once you can
beat all those little security features, I mean, it ends up being perfect, you know what
I mean?
And that's what the bills were like.
I mean, if you've got a credit card with a hologram or in Boston, you know, everything
right, then people in and it works.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Why would anyone think that it was fake?
You know what I mean?
It's just success.
Right.
And that's what the bills, you know, ended up being, it's just like, they worked every
time.
You know what I mean?
The only times that I ever got turned down was if I went to, like, a Walmart too many
times and I'd keep going, keep going, and then they'd, you know, eventually that hit
the bank and the bank would inform management and management.
Like one time I went and do a grocery store and I gave this bill to this cashier, she
broke it.
Like a week later, I happened to go back to the same grocery store and it was the same
cashier I recognized her.
And she, this time I handed her the bill and she held it up and was looking at the strip
and the watermark, marked it with a pen, held it up again and I was like, you know, was
there a problem?
Like, you know, and she's like, oh yeah, we just, I got a counterfeit bill last week
so I'm just double checking everything.
You know, like, okay, and she still accepted it.
You know what I mean?
So like, and that happened a few different times, people would say like, oh, we've been
getting counterfeit bills, but I mean, if you mark it with the pen.
They don't know where they got it from.
Well, yeah.
I mean, and they're passing all the tests, there are certain tests a cashier does to,
you know, see if it's real or not.
And you know, everything was legitimate, you know, it all looked legitimate.
So yeah, but yeah, I mean, there were times you get like money orders and give them, you
know, I've got the little victim list or whatever with all the bills that they found, you know,
at different businesses.
And there's some like get Western Union for $1,200 or there was one case where we knew
the manager at a gas station that would just open the safe and just switch out, you know,
fake bills for real bills.
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
So there was a bunch of different like little scams or ways to get them off.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's an interesting, it's a really like unique thing because it's like, it doesn't really
hurt one specific person.
You can kind of like pass it along.
You know what I mean?
Like everyone can kind of benefit from it.
Yeah.
For sure.
And it doesn't make enough money to like actually affect the economy.
Right.
Exactly.
Right.
So really, I mean, what is, I mean, if everyone thinks it's real, it looks real and it passes
everywhere.
Like essentially it's...
Who are you hurting?
Look the other way.
Right.
You're not really hurting anybody, are you?
Well, the judge seemed to think...
The judge thought so.
Yeah.
And the judge was really religious so she didn't really like the Bible paper thing.
Oh, shit.
You know, I actually got arrested one time at a Walmart for theft because I was stealing
Bible paper.
Like I went in and like ripped a couple pages of Bible paper.
Yeah, you're for ripping the Bible paper out.
Well, they saw me, they pulled me aside and say, oh, we saw you stuff something in your
pants.
You know what I mean?
Because I just put it in like, you know, the top of my pants after, you know, I took
a Bible, took out some blank pages and tucked it in my pants.
And they were like, you know, we know you're stealing something.
We saw you stuff something in your pants.
And finally they like took it out and just saw a bunch of blank pages of fucking Bible
paper.
They're like, what is this?
Like, why are you doing this?
And I didn't know what to tell them, you know what I mean?
I can't admit to what I'm actually doing with it.
So I was just like, I don't know what to tell you, bro.
I probably looked fucking crazy, you know what I mean?
But yeah, they just gave me a little citation for a theft or whatever.
They didn't know, you know, why I was ripping up blank pages and stuff in my pants.
It's kind of embarrassing, but...
That's insane.
Yeah.
Um, so are you like paying back a certain amount of your income to restitution right
now?
Yeah.
Uh, the restitution, like I said, they kept it under 100,000.
So I think it's like 96,000, some odd dollars that I got to pay back.
They don't make it easy to bounce back, man.
Well, no, I mean, it's, it's only been three months I've been out and yeah, it's not easy,
for sure.
I'm still living in a halfway house.
Are you?
Yeah.
I was separated while I was in prison.
So I had to, basically the house that I was going to go to in North Carolina, I couldn't
because we were separating.
So they had to send me back to the sentencing district.
So I originally caught my charges in Knoxville, so I had to go back to Knoxville.
So they took my car, I got no place, you know, so I just had to go to a halfway house.
You know what I mean?
But luckily I landed that job and, you know, I'll get back on my feet soon.
Well, cool, bro.
I really appreciate you coming down here and telling your story, man.
I'm sure people are going to love it.
Tell, is there a place that people can like find you if they want to like reach out to
you or?
Um, I mean, I'm on Facebook.
I was talking to Matt about starting a podcast, maybe, you know, dealing with, you know, fraud
and white collar crimes and stuff, but I haven't gotten to it yet.
Been out three months, but I'm going to work to everything.
So people want to like hit you up or talk to you or they can hit you up on Facebook?
Yeah, Jeff Turner on Facebook.
Cool.
Awesome, Jeff.
Well, thanks again, man.
I appreciate it.
Thanks for having me.
