Wrestling fans are the fans that have more passion in any other sport other than football,
baseball, basketball.
Wrestling fans are the best fans in the world.
I got the yellow belt.
I got the sunglasses bandana and a little bit of a tricep.
It's not like where you go to a football game and you leave.
Wrestling is something you can live every day and it just inspires you, at least for
me, it just inspires you every day.
I'm disputed!
Champion of the world!
Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy, Tai-Dai guy.
These are wrestling fans.
These are wrestling fans.
This is what wrestling's all about.
You're seeing it live here, people.
This is what wrestling's all about.
Tai-Dai guy.
These are wrestling fans.
I'm Dylan.
I'm from Florida.
I drove about 14 hours on a Friday night to come up here.
I got here and they were all sold out.
Every ticket was sold out.
So I was like, oh, shit.
And I happened to know Byron, the commentator, and he was like, dude, just keep trying.
So I kept trying.
Next thing I know, I got like a $50 ticket and then I got there and some guy gave me
a floor seat, second row.
The typical wrestling fan is wild, crazy, screams a lot, jumps up and down when they
see people.
It gets all crazy.
I fly fucking, I've flown like almost 20 hours to be here.
In Australia, it's a bit different.
It's not as big as it is in America and whatever, but when people like, you like wrestling and
whatever, I was like, yes.
But when you meet fans that actually like wrestling and you're like, we love it.
And we have that connection.
It means the world to me.
I don't know.
Pick your favorite soap opera and then like pick athletic people in it and be like, put
them in one show together.
Like this is going to be athletic people and this is going to be the soap opera.
And like we're going to have one big storyline and it's amazing.
Hulk Hogan or Rick Flair?
Fuck, Jesus.
I hate both of them.
I don't have to say Rick Flair.
I hate Hulk Hogan.
I freaking hate Hulk Hogan.
We're all one in some weird way.
Like wrestling fans, you have this, all these different walks of life of people that come
together for one thing that they all love and it's professional wrestling and it's like
one of the greatest things you'd ever see in life.
Like to see this connection that people share over wrestling is amazing.
Changes people's lives in different ways.
Like, you love wrestling, why?
Well, this person loves it because of this and I love it because of that.
Wrestling is such a beautiful thing and one of the widest variety of people you would
ever see like anything.
That's what wrestling is, man.
Wrestling is buying into these characters and emotionally investing into something and
that's in its purest form wrestling is love.
I like storytelling.
I enjoy theatrics so I grew very interested in the way they do things.
I researched and I've studied and I understand so much about it now that I just can't fucking
get out of it.
You know, a wrestling mark, a wrestling fan, they're rowdy, they love what they love, they
love the good guys, they hate the bad guys and they will definitely let you know how
they feel.
Hulk Hogan or Rick Flair?
Rick Flair, all the way.
Fuck Hulk Hogan.
Hulk Hogan believes his own hype.
He doesn't understand that he was just the right guy, the right place, at the right time
and that's all there is to it.
There's rumors that he's going to be coming back as SmackDown General Manager and I think
that's a terrible idea.
I think if anybody, it should be the icon's thing.
WrestleMania is my birthday, my Christmas, my Super Bowl, my everything, all in one night.
People don't understand why we like a thing that isn't real and you, that's predetermined.
I am actually a champion fighting against breast cancer, there's the belt.
Open your eyes, open your minds, open your eyes, like give it a shot.
It brings you emotionally to a place that you never thought you could go and for me,
I just realised that reaching those emotions through stories and through wrestling make
me a better person.
When I was wrestling fan when I was younger, I was in the closet, I didn't know anyone
who liked wrestling and being out of the closet was a wrestling fan.
Wrestling helped Jim come out of the closet.
You know what I mean?
Well, in England, only geeks like wrestling.
Oh really?
Yeah, it's not like Norm like he's up here.
You've got to find weird people who like it with you.
My name is James Bayani, I'm originally from Zimbabwe.
When I was here, I grew up in this small village in rural Zimbabwe, we used to have one television.
Like there was one television in the whole village and whenever we wanted to watch wrestling,
we would walk like seven miles to go watch wrestling on a Saturday.
You know, I'm talking of the days where we used to have Bret Hart, British Bulldog,
Macho Man, the Undertaker during his heydays and after watching wrestling, we would walk
back another seven miles.
So I mean, it was kind of crazy.
So moving to Zimbabwe, coming to New Orleans and experiencing like WrestleMania first hand
like this.
Oh man, I said I have to really go watch live this WrestleMania and I enjoyed myself.
I mean, it was breathtaking.
In my country, Zimbabwe, Hulk Hogan is one of the most adored performers of all time actually.
Because people, since the time we started watching wrestling, Hulk Hogan Mania was always on the screen.
And yeah, he has got a lot of respect, he commands a lot of respect from people who love wrestling.
And also I think I want to say that you know how wrestling WWE is so influential in my country
that I don't think people know that.
Like, if you go like all the kids there, they can tell you about everything that's going on.
They'll tell you about Edge, they'll tell you about Randy Orton, they'll tell you about
you know, all these wrestlers.
But you know, kids from the village, kids from all the neighborhoods in the city, you know,
they like wrestling so much and it inspires them too.
You got my title!
Woo!
Woo!
Hulk Hogan!
Oh God.
To be honest with you, wrestling pretty much, you know, how do I say this?
The good things, when you get over, you know, the things that helped me with my most with depression
would be wrestling and music.
It's like, you know, when you're having a bad day or whatever, you know, and you're just not feeling it,
you know, I can sit there and sit there and turn wrestling on and sit there and enjoy it
and it takes me away from all my troubles, you know, same thing with music, wrestling and music.
You know, I didn't have that, I didn't know where I'd be.
It's theater in the round, go there and vest yourself and the characters are watching,
just lose yourself in the action.
See what's out there and there's characters for everybody in wrestling.
There's good guys, it's simple, it's the good guys and bad guys.
Well, I've always loved about wrestling, it's never happened to say goodbye.
It's every, you might see an amazing movie that will be better than any wrestling match I've ever seen
but that's it, the movie's done, you know, no more of wrestling, they're still here today.
You know, I just spent my whole time here at Ric Flair, Stone Cold, you know.
Guys are still around, you can talk about it, you can share your stories.
It's a way to connect with people instantly.
You see somebody in a wrestling shirt and you know they're a friend of yours, you know.
Well, the one thing I could do to convince you is I'm probably one of the most hardcore motherfuckers
and take the camera right here and I would do this his mother right there
and that's what I would do.
That's what I would do on any given fucking day.
I'm from Mobile, Alabama, my name is Forest Barnett.
I also performed as a manager named Forest Grump in Las Vegas with the GloGurbs last year at the CAC.
What type of people like wrestling?
Really, they come from all walks of life from what I can see.
It's been all over the place, all over the world.
It's actually looked like, looking at real life superheroes doing battle in the ring, heroes and villains.
And of course I loved Batman and Robin from the 60s and it just went on up into this type of stuff and I just love it all.
What do you do for a living?
Actually, I've been a pro wrestling manager and I'm a minister as well.
I'm Scott, I'm from Tambi, town in Wales in the UK.
I'm Wes, I'm also from Tambi in a town in Wales, we live on the same estate.
It's everything really.
There's not a day when we wake up we don't think about wrestling or talk about wrestling in some capacity.
It's a part of our lives and a pretty big part as well.
As long as you don't take it too seriously, just look at the whole picture, the fun and aspect of it and everything, you should enjoy it.
Wrestling fans have, I don't know, I wouldn't say social anxiety, but it seems kind of like that way.
But we're all tight knit.
We walk up to anybody and we're like, hey, woo!
We give them too sweet, exactly.
We go for life, baby!
Yeah man, N.W.O.
After WrestleMania 31 when N.W.O. came out, Hollywood Hogan, Razor Ramon, baby.
The big diesel Kevin Nash, I said, you know what, I'm getting a tattoo.
Every single day.
If I had never experienced any kind of wrestling, didn't know anything about it, and you wanted to try to convince me to give it a shot, how would you convince me?
Probably put you to sleep.
I can put you to sleep about six different ways, about two seconds.
Can we get this man in the shot, he's come from Australia as well, look at this.
Who is this guy?
George, introduce yourself, look down the barrel of the camera.
Seven WrestleMania's, the name's Spider, still standing.
One week in NOLA.
Ozzy, Ozzy, Ozzy.
Oi, oi, oi.
How cool are gladiators?
What have I told you there's something better than fucking Roman gladiators?
What have I told you?
You can come watch it, and if you don't like it, yeah, you don't like it till you don't try it.
That's how he got pregnant with me.
It's on TV, from kind to outright.
Wrestling's the greatest entertainment, greatest sport ever since I've been watching as a kid, and I'm an original Hulkamaniac.
Every time you comment on a Facebook post to try and make yourself sound cool, they're like, ehh, that's fake.
Every show you watch on TV is fake.
It's what you choose to believe to enjoy, what you like to accept as reality.
Suspension of disbelief, and the stories that these men tell in the ring.
It's better than anything that you ever wish you could do, or anything that your favorite TV shows wish they could do.
They put their bodies on the line every night that they go out there for their art entertainment, and they give a damn hell good of a show.
Better than your shitty walking deads, whatever you watch at home.
Wrestling, Wrestlemania, is better than all of it.
I literally got some crawfish.
I got a pound of crawfish, and I'm handing out crawfish to people.
You're family, this is family, right?
I handed a guy a crawfish from Cleveland, and he never saw a crawfish before.
It's basically feeling like a part of a community.
You can't put it into words.
You hear these people screaming, woo, behind you.
That's the Ric Flair stuff.
That's this community.
It's very unique, it's very different.
Turn around real quick.
Ric Flair drip.
Woo!
Can you explain more?
Can't stand it, we didn't do it, it's not even a guess.
Can you explain more?
Kissing all the girls and making them cry.
I'm a rock and tantal, baby.
Ric Flair.
I don't even explain it.
I really don't.
