Hello world. Today's guest is Wilfred Wong. Wilfred is an international human
rights activist who's been investigating a phenomena called Satanic
Ritual Abuse for the past 27 years. Satanic Ritual Abuse, also called SRA,
is a brutal form of abuse on children, youth, and vulnerable adults, consisting
of physical, sexual, and psychological abuse, and it involves the use of Satanist
rituals. This was a wild and terrifying conversation, so grab your Bible and
buckle up folks. Enjoy.
So thanks again for doing this. If you could, if you could just explain to the
people listening, sort of who you are and a little bit about your background.
Sure. I'm a former barrister. In England, there are two types of lawyer. Solicitor or
barrister. Barrister does the work, legal work, mainly in the courts, and
represent clients in the courts. It's a profession divided between solicitors
and barristers in this country, and I used to be a barrister, but now I'm
working full-time on other issues, and one of those issues is Satanist Ritual
Abuse, which I have worked on for the last 27 years. How it started was when
British MP, member of parliament, approached me about a Satanist Ritual
Abuse case that he had been approached about and asked me to get involved
because he knew that I was involved in campaigning for children's rights, and
I've done a lot of work over the last 27 years on children's rights issues,
including child sex abuse, but also SRA, and it started from there. That was in
January 1993. So, more than 27 years now, I've been following this issue of SRA,
speaking out on it, campaigning on it, sometimes writing articles, doing
interviews, speaking at conferences, trying to get the word out because this
is a very hidden issue, and this is what makes it so difficult to deal with
sometimes, is the general public's ignorance of the issue or disinterest in
the issue, or sometimes their knee-jerk reaction of skepticism, which makes it
difficult to get them to take action on the issue. So, explain what exactly is SRA.
Satanist Ritual Abuse is a brutal form of mistreatment that is inflicted on
children or vulnerable adults, and it involves psychological, physical, and sexual abuse,
and it is done in the context of Satanist rituals, and it is normally, in most cases,
done not as a one-off incident, but as a repeated form of abuse over a period of time,
usually a period of years, that the victim is subjected to SRA. So, it inflicts huge
damage on the survivors. Some of the people who are subjected to SRA do not survive,
unfortunately. Sometimes they are murdered as part of the ritual, usually in a ritualistic way,
we call that ritual sacrifice, and it is the Satanist rituals and the Satanist beliefs
that encompass what I would call atrocities against children and vulnerable adults.
It's sex abuse and torture combined together, and it's repeated over and over,
and it's hell, basically, for the victims who have to go through this,
and when they come out at the other end, if they survive, and they try and tell their stories to
others, usually they are victimized a second time by people rubbishing what they are trying to reveal,
and saying, that can't be true, or you're telling lies, or you're delusional,
and I would refer to that as a secondary form of abuse. So, one thing that makes it so hard for
the public to accept is because it's so awful, it's unimaginable horror, but it does exist.
I think throughout human history, we have many examples of people thinking that, oh, well,
we've already reached the depths of human depravity, can't get worse, unfortunately,
it does get worse. So, there was a time in the UK, for example, not that long ago,
when even child sex abuse was disbelieved, because people found that too horrible to accept,
and just didn't want to believe that it was true, and the victims of child sex abuse who
were trying to report it were disbelieved, and were scolded, or warned not to repeat their allegations
again, and now we have the same kind of disbelief, in many cases, level as SRA, although I'm pleased to
say that the public interest in SRA, and willingness to seriously consider it as a real issue,
is starting to shift in the right direction, at least in the UK. I know you have a struggle in
America as well over this issue, but I think one advantage America has is that it's a more open
society than the UK, and it's easier to talk openly about these subjects over there than in the UK,
or other parts of Europe. So, what was it like, or how did you become aware of this for the very
first time? Yeah, so I was basically just saying who made you aware of it, and what was the situation?
Well, I had heard about this subject before January 93, when I first started working on it,
and I had done some reading on the subject, so when I was asked to take on this issue,
I wasn't totally unaware of what SRA consisted of, but in a way I was thrown in at a deep end,
because I was asked to meet a group of SRA survivors who were being treated by a doctor,
and all of them had dissociative identity disorder, DID, which used to be known as multiple
personality disorder. So, I saw some adults, for example, in front of me, shifting from their
core adult personality to a little child personality that caused them to talk in a very
different voice, act in a very different way. These fragmentation of their core personality
into all these different, what we call altars, alternative personalities, is actually a survival
mechanism, more than a disease. It's not a disease, it's not a mental illness, it's a survival
mechanism that victims of SRA, especially children, use, because what they're subjected to is so
horrible, it's so horrific, that mentally a child cannot cope, so what they do is they
fragment their mind into other personalities to cope with the torture and the abuse,
and they let that personality bear the brunt of the suffering, and that enables the core
personality to remain safe and distance from it. So, in many of these cases, you will find child
personalities who exist still at the time which they were created. So, for example, there may be a
case of an SRA survivor who formed a child personality in 1974, for example, when that person
was being subjected to SRA, and many years later, that child personality may come up,
for example, doing therapy, and still think in that child personality, he or she will still
think that it's 1974. There's also sometimes what you call a guardian personality who is like the
bodyguard there to help protect the core personality, and that guardian personality
can be very aggressive and overly assertive, and if it's a female, it might even take the form of,
if it's a female core personality, the guardian might even take the form of a male
to add to the aggressive nature of that alter. So, it's a sad fact that about 80% of people suffering
from DID are SRA survivors. That means the majority of DID sufferers have DID because
since childhood, they were subjected to the most horrible abuse and torture by Satanist abusers,
and the end result, the only way they could mentally cope and survive was through the
fragmentation of their core personality into all these different personalities, and I know of an SRA
survivor, for example, who was abused since a very young age, since she was practically a baby,
and she has hundreds of altars, literally hundreds. It's not impossible for them to
integrate all their altars into the core personality, but it usually takes years of therapy
to do that. It is a survival mechanism because the alternative, if they couldn't split into their
different personalities, would have been simply losing their mind, having a complete mental
breakdown. So, in order to survive, they have this, and it's interesting to note, some SRA
survivors get so used to it and see the positive side of it that they find it hard sometimes to
let go of the separate altars and integrate them into their core personality because they've grown
rather fond of having that altar or too used to it, perhaps. So, one way, I think, to find out more
about SRA in a particular location or city is to talk to the therapists who specialize in dealing
with DID and see if they're willing to share with you what they know. Some of them may be afraid to
talk about SRA because they think that it will damage their careers if they do so, but others
will be more willing to just be upfront about it because they believe in exposing this evil.
In fact, the only way to stop this evil is to expose it, and for too many years, it's been
hidden from public knowledge. So, I was in this building full of SRA survivors who were shifting
from one altar to another. They were badly damaged. I felt so sorry for them. It can be a shock to
anyone who's not seen this before, and the doctor told me that the local member of parliament had
visited him on another occasion recently and that she did not last more than about one and a half
hours before she made some excuse to leave because it was just too disturbing for her to see.
But yeah, in that sense, I was thrown in a deep end and I stayed there the whole day
finding out what I could and hearing the stories, very sad stories of some of the survivors.
Now, some of the things you hear about Satanism compared to what you're talking about, I know
there's people in the UK that run these, quote, Satanic temples, and they will openly discuss
how Satanism is about the worship of oneself or the introspective behavior of
facing your own problems or facing your own demons, looking inward,
and it's sort of a love affair with yourself. So how do these people differ from these sort
of Satanic covens that you've investigated? Well, I think in essence, they don't really differ from
them very much, but they are presenting a very small aspect of what they really believe. For example,
I do surveillance on Satanist covens and I know that they like to meet
not only on the dates of the Satanic calendar, they also like to meet on the birth dates
of their members because, as you said earlier, what the Satanist temple claims,
that they also believe in the worship of oneself. So for them, the birthday is like the birth of
God because they regard themselves as being gods and Satanism is not only about worshiping the
devil as God, but considering oneself as God. And so the birthdays of their members is a date for
them to have a ritual and a significant religious day, you could say. And so they haven't told the
full story, which is that their worshiping themselves as gods does not negate their worshiping the
devil as God. They're doing both. They're doing both, but they know people have generally a bad
impression, very rightly so in my view, of the devil. So they keep the devil in the background
and just say, oh well, we're just worshiping ourselves. What's wrong with that? Well, the problem
is that also leads to an attitude of we can do whatever we want and there's no such thing as
us doing wrong. We can do whatever we want, satisfy our desires, regardless of who it may harm,
as long as we get our satisfaction. Because we are gods. We can do anything. God can do anything.
I can do anything. And you've heard the phrase probably of do what thou wilt, do whatever you
want. And Anton LaVe, as you know, the former head of the Church of Satan in the USA, he summed it up
as do whatever thou wilt. All the law that Satanists will have
is to do whatever you want. And that, of course, includes doing whatever you want,
even if it's at the expense of others, even if it causes harm to others. It doesn't matter,
as long as you satisfy your wants. And after all, God can do whatever he wants. So I am a so-called
God. I can do whatever I want. And all that matters is that I have my needs
fulfilled, no matter how perverse those needs may be. Alistair Crowley, the leading Satanist in the
UK, said the same thing. And in fact, I'm pretty sure that what Alistair Crowley said influenced Anton
LaVe to say something very similar. And so this is the danger of this attitude of a person being
God. It's not only that they can do whatever they want. They can do the most terrible things to others
and justify it, not in an objective way, of course. It's purely subjective, but justify it
to themselves on the belief that I'm all powerful. I'm God. I will decide what's right and wrong,
because God decides what's right and wrong. And what's right is whatever satisfies my needs.
So you imagine that belief in the hands of someone who believes that it's okay for adults
to sexually abuse children. Well, as long as I get my needs satisfied, no matter how many children
I abuse, do what they will. I will do it. I am a God. And I will have my way. So this is the problem
with this kind of presentation. They're trying to make Satanism seem harmless and respectable even,
but they're not giving you the full picture. In practice, the full picture is you get
practices like SRA, which of course they will more often than not. In fact, I've never heard
of them actually acknowledging its existence, deny that it exists, because SRA is a very
inconvenient reality that stops them from being mainstreamed. Especially in the USA, I believe
Satanists are trying hard to get mainstream recognition as supposedly respectable religion.
Whereas in the UK, it's more hidden, but there are some moves towards more recognition, for example,
in the Royal Navy in the UK. In 2004, they had recognition to have Satanist rituals done
on Royal Navy ships. So you're saying on the outside, basically, for face value and
in terms of what they portray to the media is, like I mentioned before, it's an
introspective look at worshiping oneself. They don't portray that we can do whatever we want,
and obviously the child of you stuff. They don't want that to be in the public light.
That's sort of once you get behind the veil, they reveal that to you. It sort of reminds
me of Scientology. Are you familiar with Scientology? Yes, but just to add what you
mentioned about behind the veil, I know some British ex-Satanists who have since left Satanism,
and they have blown the whistle on what goes on in Satanism. So some of the things I've said
just now is backed up by those statements by ex-Satanists that, as you rightly said,
a lot of it is behind the veil, and they don't want the veil pulled. They want the veil to stay there.
Right. Like Scientology, for face value, they push this book called Dianetics,
which basically, you know, it talks about being productive and getting things done
and bettering yourself. And once you get inside and start to pay them all kinds of money,
I mean, that's a huge thing, is they want money from you. That's how they survive,
besides being tax-exempt, of course. But once you sort of level up in Scientology,
now they reveal to you this galactic Confederacy ruled by this overlord by the name of Zinu,
and you don't hear about any of that until you get inside and pay them a bunch of money.
Otherwise, people would just think it's complete horseshit.
Yeah, you're right. I would describe it as the worm on the hook. When you catch the fish,
you've got to put the worm on the hook. You just give them the hook, and the fish will never bite.
So the worm on the hook for Satan is what you describe the Satanic temple claiming, that
it's about worship of self, and they'll probably bring in nice attractive phrases like self-esteem,
self-realization, et cetera, et cetera. And as with the book Dianetics for Scientologists,
this is the worm on the hook for Satanists, draw people in. But the thing about Satanism
is that, as with Scientology, as many people have alleged, I think, once you're in,
it's pretty hard to get out. You may even find yourself being seriously threatened when you try
to get out. So once you bite on that attractive looking worm, like a fish, you're on the hook,
and it's not going to be easy to get yourself off the hook. And there's going to be a lot of
fighting that you're going to have to do. So it's better not to get in in the first place.
Now, what have you studied on Anton Levé? Do you think Anton Levé was involved with any sort
of child abuse or this pedophilia? What I understand about Levé is that there has been
at least one allegation of SRA against him, apparently by a family member.
I don't dwell a lot on US SRA cases for the simple reason that I've got more than enough
UK SRA cases that more than fill out my plate. But this is what I understand from a US
source who works on SRA, that there has been a serious allegation of SRA against Anton Levé,
at least one, if not more. The fact of the matter is with Satanists especially, you should never take
what they claim publicly at face value. You've got to look deep behind because they are masters
of deception. You know, I describe Satanists as Oscar-winning actors and actresses because they
put on Oscar-winning performances all their lives. Imagine, some of them are very respectable,
they do respectable jobs, some of them are even in government. But at night, when they believe
that no one is watching and they're at their cover meetings, they do the most horrific things
to children or vulnerable adults and then they go back to respectability the next morning and carry
on with their respectable jobs, sometimes very highly paid professional jobs. And so they lead
this double life all their lives and so they're very good at deception, they're very well-practiced
at it. I remember once meeting a former senior police detective in the UK, who by the way is a
Satanist abuser himself. I know from various victims who've seen him at the rituals and one of whom
was even sexually assaulted by him and he was acting the act very convincingly as the former
police detective and speaking very convincingly. And the interesting thing is he was trying to
persuade me not to describe SRA as Satanist ritual abuse because the one thing Satanists hate
is for the finger to be pointed at Satanist or Satanism. They hate that, which is all the more
reason why we need to say SRA, Satanist ritual abuse, because then we are pointing to the source
of SRA, which is Satanist ritual, Satanist beliefs. Without Satanist beliefs, there would be no SRA.
You see, that's why they hate that so much. They need to at least get the word Satanist
dropped from SRA to help conceal themselves. And every time we expose them, we are helping to
protect children by making it harder for them to remain hidden and to remain in secret. And we
make it harder for them to mainstream themselves and get respectability as a major religion because
you cannot recognize a belief system that encourages serial torture of children, serial
killing, and serial sexual sex abuse of children to become a religion. It's like saying, well,
you know, why don't we take the practices of Ted Bundy and turn that into a religion, you know,
because you're just giving a license to sociopaths to start their own religion. If you do give that
kind of recognition to the people behind SRA, you see, but they want, they want the financial
benefits, they want the political benefits of becoming respected religion. And they are further
down the road on this in the US than they are in the UK. In the UK at the moment, they're still
trying to pretend they don't exist. But we know that they exist. Now, can you explain who this man
by the name of Jimmy Saville is? Jimmy Saville was a long time celebrity, big time celebrity,
very popular in Britain. And he is also officially in Britain, the most prolific sex abuser
in British history. He had hundreds of victims. He did both child sex abuse and satanist ritual
abuse. His core beliefs were satanism. Satanists often disguise themselves under other religious
groups or atheism. But their core belief, their real belief system, if they are satanist, will
be satanism because satanism demands 100% commitment. And they're only adopting that appearance
as a disguise, as a concealment. So Jimmy Saville pretended to be Roman Catholic,
but his, all the rapes he committed over decades, in fact, the last known alleged rape that he
committed was when he was 82 years old. And satanism and SRA of Jimmy Saville was exposed by one
courageous newspaper in the UK, known as the Sunday Express. And they had survivor's testimonies of
having been ritually abused as children by Jimmy Saville. And then another SRA survivor of Jimmy
Saville saw that first article, came forward and shared her testimony. And that made the story for
the second article on Jimmy Saville's satanism and SRA. And then a third person, well, another person
who had quietly documented Jimmy Saville's visit to his town in Northern England for years to attend
satanic rituals, produced his research to the Sunday Express. And they did the third article
on Jimmy Saville's satanism based on that. I have the links to all the articles if people want to
look at them. They're on the internet. Is there a place where people can go to sort of look at all
this stuff? Like, do you have a website where people can look at? Yes, I have a website which has
these articles as well. I will email you my website. The name of the website is CASRA,
Coalition Against Satanist Ritual Abuse. I will email you that and my email address as well for
people who might want to get in touch because they need help with a SRA case.
And the important thing is he got away with it. He was raping so many children over decades.
And in some cases, adults, hundreds, more than 450 in total. And he was never arrested.
He was never charged with the crimes he did. The 50... Sorry, how do you know it's 450? How
many people have come forward and spoken about this or have claimed to be victims of Jimmy?
The numbers attributed to him based on the hundreds of victims who came forward.
Hundreds of victims came forward. Yeah, it's about 450. Wow. Hundreds of victims came forward.
Unfortunately, by the time they came forward, he had already died. But some had tried. Some
said they had tried when he was still alive to tell others about the abuse they suffered.
One child had tried, at least one child had tried and was disbelieved. Because the problem with the
attitude here, at least probably the same in America, is, oh, he's a well-known and respected
celebrity. He can't possibly have done such awful things. Perhaps today we're a bit more
streetwise about celebrities that they do do dark things sometimes when they think they're not being
watched. That they're not shiny, white, and clean as they may present themselves. But probably back
then, a couple of decades ago, when you try to expose a celebrity, it would be even much, much
harder to do so. And so the child who tried to expose what Savile did to her was simply disbelieved
and scolded for her troubles. And this is what we need to learn. I mean, we can't get Savile now,
obviously, he's already dead. But are we going to learn that just because a person's a celebrity
should not make that person bulletproof when it comes to sex abuse allegations?
Are we willing to look more closely at the celebrities and not simply by the
personality as authentic that they are trying to present to us? Are we going to listen to the
victims? This is a very key issue. Do we actually listen seriously to victims, whether they're
children or adults of sex abuse? I'm not saying 100% of them, 100% of the time are going to be
accurate. But I would say that most of the time they are accurate. And we should seriously consider
rather than simply dismiss offhand, which often happens, the allegations of sex abuse,
whether it's SRA or child sex abuse, we need to take these issues seriously and thoroughly
investigate them because they are serious. In the UK, at least, we have a common problem
of the police not thoroughly investigating SRA allegations. And sometimes just going through
the motions of investigating and then shutting it down. And the common excuse, and it's just an
excuse, is there's not enough evidence. Of course, there's not going to be enough evidence if you
don't bother to thoroughly investigate whatever evidence you have got now. So it just becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy if they start off the investigation with the attitude of, well,
there's probably enough evidence. And then they're just going through the motions. They're just
putting on a show in that sense. And that has allowed the SRA to continue with near impunity.
You know, as I say to people here, impunity is not something confined only to certain Latin
American banana republics. Impunity is alive and well in the UK when it comes to SRA. It's been
going on for years and the police have repeatedly not done their job properly to thoroughly investigate
it. And even with child sex abuse cases, which are not SRA, the police have also failed there,
especially in both CSA and SRA cases, especially when certain VIPs are involved. Of course,
one VIP would have been Jimmy Savile. The police are reluctant to pursue investigations.
Was Jimmy Savile connected to the royal family in the UK? And do you think the situation with
Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell is connected to all of this?
I would say that in Jimmy Savile's case, he knew Prince Charles, which is quite public.
He, it does not mean that there is strong evidence to indicate that Prince Charles was somehow
involved in this. I've heard people alleging that the royal family are somehow involved in SRA.
I remain open-minded, but I at this present time will not go so far as to say they are involved
because I have yet to interview a SRA survivor who said such and such royal family member
literally abused me, and I have yet to meet anyone who can corroborate that allegation.
So I leave it open for now. I cannot say at this point, because I haven't come across the witnesses
myself so far that they are involved in SRA. The Epstein case, one thing I would say is that
it's being presented as child sex abuse, pedophilia, rather than as satanic abuse case.
So I suspect there are probably SRA elements and Satanist elements in the Epstein case.
I wouldn't be surprised at all if Epstein was a Satanist who did SRA, but the publicity
surrounding it so far has not really reviewed that. And it's not surprising because especially
when it comes to well-known people, there's often a kind of cover-up by the media to hide the satanic
SRA aspects of the case. That's what happened with Savile, by the way. Only one UK newspaper
had the guts to expose the Satanism in SRA in the Savile case. Other newspapers wrote loads of
articles about Savile without even mentioning Satanism or SRA once. So there's all this
coverage which left out some of the key issues there. Because if you want to know, and these
newspapers are all asking, if you want to know how he managed to get away with it for so many years,
I would say, well, first you've got to expose the Satanism in SRA because
a lot of the cases in the UK, I would say the majority of covered up child sex abuse cases
in the UK are SRA. They are more likely to be covered up than the so-called ordinary child sex
abuse cases because there are connections between the Satanists and influential people.
Some of the Satanists are themselves influential people. There's also the links with Freemasonry.
So I'm waiting to see, and I hope it will happen soon, that the Epstein case,
if there are Satanic elements in it, that that will be publicly exposed by the media.
One interesting thing about Epstein that could be a clue to Satanist involvement is that he had an
unusual, unusually strong interest in eugenics. Eugenics, and he even spoke at conferences on
eugenics. Do you explain what eugenics is? Eugenics is basically about, to put it bluntly, getting rid of the
less supposedly intelligent people and the less successful people and those from the lower
rungs of society, getting rid of them, getting rid of those who are considered a burden to society
so as to improve the so-called gene pool and to have supposedly better quality of human being,
being reproduced. And it kind of falls in pretty much with Satanist attitudes. It's very elitist
and has a kind of ruthless attitude of well, we don't want these riff-riff to be reproducing
so we'll find ways to stop them reproducing or to kill off their offspring or to abort their
offspring. One example would be there's quite a push by pro-abortionists to abort babies with
Down syndrome and to stop any Down syndrome child from being born and that's their solution
inverted commerce to the problem of Down syndrome. Get rid of all of them so there's no more,
abort them all in the womb, no more Down syndrome problem solved because we kill all of them off.
That's a kind of eugenics attitude. Hitler had a very eugenics attitude wanting to get rid of
not just the Jews but he killed his own people first with euthanasia.
He killed a lot of the people that he thought were a burden on society, the elderly, the infirm,
the disabled. He had euthanasia policies to get rid of them. He started there even before he started
sending the Jews to the concentration camps to die. He started with those people in his own
nation who he deemed to be not worth continuing to live. So this elitist attitude of killing off
those who they decide have lives that are not really worth living is eugenics. That really
fits in with a kind of Satanist attitude to the weak and the infirm which is get rid of them
or exploit them. Get rid of them or exploit them. It's very elitist. Satanism is very elitist.
So you often hear people referring to the global elite
who many of them are Satanists and they are pushing a Satanist agenda for the globe.
So Epstein was into this in a more than just an average passing interest
to the point that he was even a speaker at some of these conferences on eugenics
and that kind of suggests that he had an interest in common with Satanists on this.
Ultimately Satanists would like to enslave anybody who's not in that camp and treat them as slaves
and will regard them as slaves and inferior to them and will kill a lot of them as well,
offer them up in ritual sacrifices. This is the ultimate goal in the Satanist agenda
for the globe, for the world. That's part of the global agenda. It's about the strong exploiting
the weak. It's about the strong getting rid of the weak. It's about the strong enslaving the weak.
Now you talked about, you've recently talked about a new world order. Is that what you're
explaining right now? Just to add to that before I forget, they sometimes
brand like you brand cattle in the US. They sometimes brand their victims to show just how
subjugated and servient their victims are. You're my property and I'll brand you like a
cattle and that brand will stay on. Have you seen these brands on people?
The SRA survivors I've met so far have not had those brands but I know my colleagues
on SRA who have met such people and interviewed such people talking about their branding and
it's a sign of their attitude. Of course the branding itself is horrific but
it's a sign of their attitude towards their victims. You're nothing more than a slave or even
worse than a slave, just a cattle to me. A piece of meat. That's how I regard you and you must know
your place. You must stay in your place and know your place as a slave and you will always be
my slave and there's no way you're going to get out and they want them to believe that of course
so that they never try and leave and of course there are lots of threats to keep them in
and even more threats if they dare to ever expose what happened to them.
So this new world order that you mentioned, I often point out that when you talk about
new world order you should mention the word Satanist before it because new world orders
occur at different points of history. For example after world war one the map of Europe had to be
redrawn because various empires had lost lands or gained new land as a result of the world war one
conflict and so that was a new world order. That was not a Satanist new world order but
it was a new world order so the term new world order itself is quite neutral and it's not necessarily
bad. After world war two there was a new new world order Cold War United States on one side
USSR on the other Eastern Europe under the Soviet bloc Western Europe under the US influence.
There was a new new world order from the first world war new world order. Now we're going for
another new world order but this is different far darker than the previous new world orders.
This new world order is a Satanist dominated new world order that is being pursued and it's going to
be if it manages to implement itself it's going to be basically enslavement which would have been
the result if the Nazis had won for example the Second World War there would have been widespread
enslavement that they were enslaving the people that they occupied but this would be even worse.
It would make the Nazis probably look like choir boys by comparison if the Satanists get their
agenda fulfilled of their new world order. Their new world order would include having the power of
life and death over large numbers of people and we're already seeing more and more of that
with practices like euthanasia and assisted suicide and I know that Satanists very much
support such practices and if you if you are implementing those practices with a eugenicist
attitude like what the Satanists have to get rid of those that they deem to be not worth living
then what you have is a pretty efficient killing machine and so this new world order that's being
pursued at the core the core beliefs of this new world order is not fascism or socialism that's all
kind of window dressing yes there are elements of fascism involved there are elements of socialism
involved but under that the real substance of the belief system is Satanism because as you probably
know the Satanists believe that they are going to have a one world government in the not too distant
future and that one world government will be ruled by their version of a messiah their satanic
messiah the antichrist that's what they believe whether you believe it or not they believe that
and they are working hard to pursue that and one very clear example of this was when the satanists
organized in june this year rallies calling for one world government to be established
they had several rallies in the u.s in different parts of the u.s calling for one world government
to be established it shows you how bold they're getting because they didn't try and disguise the
fact that they were satanists they just openly organized it and called for one world government
and they did it in some other countries as well
they need one world government in order to obtain world influence and domination
they are not going to use the old-fashioned way of invading country after country to build an empire
across the globe because that will take years and that will not necessarily succeed lots of people
have tried like hitler and napoleon and didn't succeed so they're trying it in a new way get people
to believe that it's in their interest to sign up for one world government get people to believe
that there are some global crises that cannot be dealt with other than with one world government
for example the COVID-19 pandemic which at least one senior UK politician said
we need one world government to deal with this and that kind of showed that was a glimpse at what
the real agenda is building around this have a global crisis get people scared about their lives
about their the way of life and then offer the solution one world government everybody
of their own accord signs up to it thinking this is a good thing then get their person their leader
the anti christ as christians would call him or satanic saviour as perhaps the satanist might
call them call him at the top of that one world government then automatically you will have satanist
domination over the world because he who leads the one world government will lead the world
so we've got to be careful about this thing about globalism which i think your current
president is very rightly opposing because globalism is going to lead us down the road
towards one world government oh let's all work together oh we're going to have global crises
like this COVID-19 pandemic we need to have a one world government to deal with these kind of global
crises um on the surface it may sound attractive but underneath that you've got to ask questions
who's going to lead the one world government what's going to happen to your national sovereignty
are you going to have to give up your independence eventually you will have to give up your independence
because the one world government will trump all governments so this is the say satanist global
strategy and from their one world government they will be able to enforce satanist objectives
agendas across the world so this is one of those occasions where at least peaceful nationalism
could really be a good thing for all of us to help keep us from this agenda to help protect us
from this agenda a lot of the globalists today's globalists who are pushing the globalist agenda
very actively are i believe also involved in satanism and satanist abuse so we need to
be wary about what the big picture is on on all this um and to okay i know he's unpopular
with some or maybe many americans but at least trump is is very right to oppose globalism
and that in itself is a big obstacle to the satanist because obviously the usa is the only
superpower left in the world and if they are opposed to globalism then well trauma has to be
removed that's their view and replaced with somebody who will sign the us up to the globalist agenda
and of course that will eventually lead to the global government becoming more and more powerful
we've seen something like this in in europe with the EU the european union that's nation signed up to
the EU initially thinking it was mainly about economics but as time went by they were giving
up more and more of their national powers and discretion to the EU and the EU has never been
a very transparent and accountable body and so now they're talking about the EU becoming a
like a united states of america a united states of europe and having this
much more powerful government over the EU than was originally considered when it first started
so at least in the uk there were a lot of people saying that this is not what we signed up for
you know we've been led down this road where we've had our national discretion and discretionary powers
and freedoms chipped away and fortunately the uk did vote for brexit and did eventually get brexit
despite all the the fight that the EU gave the UK government on this the EU has a strong vested
interest in seeing the UK fail economically because if the UK fails other countries will be much less
likely to dare to leave the EU because they will say well look UK tried to go on its own
and survive economically outside the EU and it failed so we must stay in the EU at least for
economic prosperity and security and this is another part of the big picture because this
new world order one of the key components is the european union and the european union as a model
for eventual world government so who are these politicians that you spoke of earlier in the
uk or around the world for that matter that you're aware of that are pushing globalism or talking
about it seriously and are people taking these guys serious and is there any substance to what
they're talking about and what they're pushing as far as globalism um i think
the global the globalism has a lot of support from various UK politicians including some very
senior ones so for example the politician who called for the setting up of one world government to deal
with the pandemic the pandemic for example uh that was Gordon Brown the former UK prime minister
and that lends a lot of impact to the statement because he's a former prime minister of the UK
the other politicians who have been supporting this kind of approach
uh are generally on the left of the political spectrum so
you will find for example when Britain was trying to implement Brexit there was a lot of
opposition from the left because they are more in favour of the european union and they would
uh try to if not stop Brexit from happening and interesting to bear in mind Tony Blair the
labour prime minister former labour prime minister of the of the UK was actually saying at one point
just ignore the referendum vote ignore the majority vote of the UK people and keep the UK and the EU
against the will of the majority that was his opinion at one point that he expressed
about how to deal with the referendum result that's how desperate some of the left
leaning politicians were to keep the UK uh in the EU and of course Tony Blair has always been
a very active globalist so
I suspect you have the same attitudes in the USA with more politicians on the left
wanting the US to go down the globalist road than those on the right of the political spectrum
uh the the fact is this is the new world order that we've been talking about a one world government
a globalist uh political remaking of of world politics and at the top of the pyramid ruling
over all this will be the satanist uh so-called savior who christians refer to as the antichrist
mm and then all the
all controlling micromanaging rules will come in
on all of us having to be micromanaged by this one world government we're already going to the
general direction of micromanagement you would have noticed it especially with the pandemic
uh suddenly we're being told what distance we have to keep from others when we have to wear a
face mask uh we can't assemble in more than a certain number of people i've noticed a lot
more interest in sra since the pandemic started and the restrictions were implemented because
people suddenly realize how fragile their freedoms are how you can just go like that right and in
the uk we've spent months in lockdown uh similar to house arrest you could say and with very little
political debate just basically parliament rubber stamping all these restrictions for our own good
inverted commerce uh the numbers are questionable uh i do not know about where you are but in the
uk there have been questions about the numbers of actual deaths from COVID-19 uh because there's
suspicion that a lot of these numbers are inflated i'm not saying there's no COVID-19 i'm saying that
uh a much smaller number of COVID-19 cases have occurred but they're being amplified
mal uh exaggerated in order to achieve a certain political agenda so for example
they're weaponizing it to their own agenda their concerns that for example there are people
who died with COVID-19 present in their bodies but not from COVID-19 killing them being added
to the statistics right because they get to jack up the numbers right right right and in the US
hospitals that do that they they actually receive more money from the government when their patients
are dying of COVID so you know if they had COVID and they died of a heart attack you know they get
paid something in the realm of 30 grand for a COVID death versus like five to ten thousand dollars
for a heart attack so that encourages exaggerating the numbers and another uh source of questioning
is a reliable contact of mine going to look at some of the hospitals which were supposed to be
full of COVID-19 patients and seeing that the hospitals were practically empty
doesn't match the rhetoric right what's being reported what's on the ground you'd expect the
hospitals to be flooded with patients and at least the hospitals that my contact went to visit
and look at and because he was questioning what was being claimed by the government
were were were empty he even told me that some of the medical staff were just like
sending text messages looking at their mobile phones not not terribly busy uh so
it just adds to the suspicion that the numbers are being grossly exaggerated
for a political agenda which is to justify more restrictions more control more micro management
more calls for one world government to deal with this huge embedded commerce problem uh
and and I think we we need to to be looking below the surface questioning these things
investigating going to hospitals where you would expect if there were really this large
a number of patients that the patients would be at those hospitals and seeing how crowded they are
and how many of the patients they are actually suffering from COVID-19 or from other illnesses
there needs to be a lot of well you could say investigative journalism done of this but of
course who's going to allow you to report unless you have an independent platform
on the reality of what's going on I've heard of some of the social media platforms banning
attempts to expose this a contact of mine tried to expose this on his facebook page and it got
suspended but it's worth trying to expose it's worth trying to get a word out I think
maybe YouTube might be one way of doing it but you have to try and get to the hospitals and do
some filming and investigations as to how crowded or not crowded those hospitals are
and look deeper below below the surface on what the government is claiming right well I mean you
mentioned that mainly politicians and celebrities and elites are involved in this satanic ritual
abuse but also a lot of ordinary people as well why don't you hear about more people being exposed
before I go into that before I forget just the last point about the COVID-19
about one year before the COVID-19 lockdown in January 2019 I interviewed an SRA survivor
who very unusually because it's not common among SRA survivors to to say that they experienced this
this was in England he told me that when he was a child not only did he
suffer SRA from satanism but they were also conducting medical experiments on him
and the medical experiments were all about infectious diseases infectious diseases like
for example COVID-19 of course COVID-19 did not exist back then they were looking at
how to manufacture an infectious disease the satanists and they were looking at
how to create a vaccine for the infectious disease not out of the goodness of their heart
but to create leverage over those who suffered from the illness and also to protect themselves
probably and when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out I asked him a few questions including do you
think it was experiments on you to create an infectious disease like COVID-19 I think
COVID-19 is probably a human engineered virus secondly to create a vaccine for it so that
they could use it as leverage over others and he said yes all of that that's what he believes he
was experimented on for and he actually brought me to the medical research labs in England
where there's still research going on today a lot of it is on the surface at least legitimate
research some of them are owned by pharmaceutical companies and how would they use the vaccines
leverage well for example if there was a human engineered virus that was so difficult to contain
and deal with except by vaccine and they the satanists had the vaccine access to it they could
basically get people to do what they want in order to obtain the vaccine couldn't they because it's
a matter of life and death and so he who controls the vaccine will control the world if it's a world
pandemic and if it's a real pandemic not not just jacked out numbers but the real thing that people
are really dying in large numbers people will do practically anything to to get their vaccine so
for the satanist it could be well you do what we want or you sign up to become a satanist and
then we'll give you the vaccine right amazing form of controlling people especially if they're
worried that without the vaccine they will die so maybe this is what the real story is behind
the COVID-19 but I would say it's probably if it was engineered by the satanist it's probably a
test run for something even bigger to come at some point in the future so a test run because
what may come in the future may be even worse may have people on their knees before the satanist
wanting the the vaccine the only life saver that they can obtain
to protect them and their loved ones from a really a real killer infectious disease that's
would make COVID-19 look like a walk in the park I know this is a very pessimistic view but I also
know that the way the satanists operate they tend to they tend to be very ambitious they tend to
think big in evil terms so they usually have bigger plans of evil to implement than what we see
now but this is for the future so I find it a very interesting and disturbing coincidence
that they would have this interest in medical experiments on infectious diseases and then
now we have this huge problem with COVID-19 yeah but wouldn't I mean wouldn't a country
just as much want to do something like that experiment with infectious diseases to use them as
bio weapons against other countries I mean what would it look like a country a
arrival country want to do the same thing yeah that's true but why would satanist be
involved in this program why would they put the human subjects through SRA
that is my my big concern you see if it was for example our intelligence agencies in the UK
running these experiments and there was no SRA then I would conclude that it's probably
an intelligence agency going rogue so to speak beyond the boundaries of their authority
in order to find effective bio weapon they could use as part of the military defense of the country
but what we have instead are satanists involved and doing SRA to their experimental subject
at the same time as also on other days doing medical experiments on the person
the government agencies probably the intelligence agencies have some involvement in this or awareness
at least of this I asked the survivor where he thought the files on the results of his
experiments would be kept because he's been wondering where he could get the paperwork
on on the experimentation done on him because that would also be proof of what he he went through
and he concluded that it's probably with the intelligence agencies in the UK
and that he won't be able to access it because of that so yes there was probably some intelligence
agency involvement but the lead seemed to be taken by the satanists rather than the intelligence
agency the satanists do have their own people in the intelligence agencies
so that there may there was probably an overlap but where the satanists are involved it's usually
them taking the lead whether overtly or covertly they are taking the lead you can be quite sure of
that and why would the satanists be so interested in experimenting on someone regarding infectious
diseases so you think there's satanists working within these government agencies that are potentially
developing chemical weapons or bioweapons warfare weapons because you know I wouldn't
expect some satanic cult to have the money to do this kind of thing to conduct these sort of
experiments and to invest in in scientists that know what the what what they're doing
yes you're right they would they would tap into government money they would use their contacts
with government there are satanists in government and in the civil service even our ex-prime minister
Edward Heath had had at least six independent witnesses accusing him of satanic abuse
what was his name so Edward Heath he's he was the conservative UK prime minister in the 1970s
just before Margaret Thatcher and he there was a as with several the investigation was done after
he died years after he died but the police in Wiltshire which is one of the counties in England
because Edward Heath lived there they led an investigation into allegations of Edward Heath's
child sex abuse and Edward Heath's satanic satanist ritual abuse and they concluded in their report
which is on the internet by the way operation conifer it was called operation conifers summary
closure report uh stated that six people said that Edward Heath did satanic satanic abuse to them
for years uh I have known from from various sources that Edward Heath was involved in SRA
but at last we had a police investigation that officially concluded that he had six witnesses
these six witnesses who corroborated each other that Edward Heath was involved in satanic abuse
that's a large number for any sex offense to have six witnesses
because the very nature of sex offenses as you know usually it's difficult to find more than
one witness who is the victim but it shows you how prolific Heath was in his abuse both his child
sex abuse and his satanic abuse and he's the former prime minister of the UK
so what's the main difference between these people who are abusing and raping I mean
wouldn't you just classify them as pedophiles like a pedophile cult what's the difference between
a satanic ritual abuser and a pedophile okay the reason I'm making the distinction
is because a pedophile normally would have a very strong addiction to
having sex with children it's like an overriding sexual attraction to children
and that is not necessarily the case with all satanist ritual abusers there are satanist ritual
abusers probably many of them who will sexually abuse a child but do not have that strong deep
attraction to sex with children but the reason why they sexually abuse the child is because it's
part of the satanic practices it's part of their belief system that they should do it
it's not entirely accurate to say this but it's part of their religious practice you could say
I say it's not entirely accurate because I don't regard satanism as as a real religion but
drawing an analogy with religious practices they see as their religious practice and
so they sexually abuse the child but they don't have that strong sexual attraction to children
which is usually lifelong which pedophiles have so it's not strictly speaking accurate to call them
pedophiles but we also need to make a distinction between the pedophiles and their activities
and the satanist ritual abusers and their activities because satanist ritual abuse
is in a different universe from pedophile activities your average pedophile does not
deliberately torture children in addition to the sex abuse your average pedophile will not
force children to sexually abuse each other as satanists do your average pedophile is not
going to bury a child in the ground making the child fear for his or her life and then later
remove the child from the ground your average pedophile is not going to ritually sacrifice
babies or adults or toddlers as satanists do you see we need to have this clear distinction
that's why when I speak about SRA I call it SRA and I don't call satanist abusers pedophiles
although they may also be pedophiles in some cases because too many people mix up
pedophile so-called ordinary child sex abuse with SRA there are two very different things
and the satanists play on this the satanists take advantage of this confusion by disguising
their satanic abuse as so-called ordinary child sex abuse and when they succeed in doing that they
succeed in concealing SRA and the reality of SRA so for example in Tim Tate's book children for the
devil he mentions an actual UK case where a boy was subjected to SRA and had revealed that to the
police when he was interviewed the boy was in foster care but unfortunately the father who was
accused by the boy of abusing him and who was a satanist abuser was allowed to visit the boy from
time to time and when he visited the boy he did not encourage the boy to say no abuse occurred
the interesting thing is he encouraged the boy to just drop all the mention of satanism
and the satanist rituals that he experienced while being abused
the father was far more concerned that the SRA not be revealed than the abuse itself
so he did not say to the boy don't say I wasn't sexually abused by you just drop all the satanic
stuff and that showed what his priority was protect the coven protect satanism by having that
drop and then it gets presented as a child sex abuse case rather than an SRA case and this is
why I say to victims it's so important if you did actually suffer SRA to tell the authorities you
did actually suffer SRA otherwise people will never learn that SRA exists they will carry on with
the myth that it doesn't exist which will make it so much harder to protect children from SRA
you see we've got to break that cycle of ignorance somewhere and it starts with as the saying goes
call a spade a spade call SRA SRA how many SRA victims have you spoken to I haven't kept count but
over the years we're probably talking a few hundred a few hundred did any of them provide any sort of
evidence of some of the stuff you're talking about like sacrificing children or torturing children
or torturing people they gave me very reliable witness statements about what they saw the only
other way for them to give strong evidence would be to have a picture a film a photograph but obviously
they would not have been in a position to to have taken such a picture of film they wouldn't
have survived they would have been killed for trying to take a picture of that the interesting
thing is that the satanists themselves film their activities but they are so far pretty
effective in keeping the film in a very well hidden place but if one is able to find a film of
the activities that it's all there on film they they like to film the SRA and they probably use
some of it as pornography and and sell it to make money but the reliable witness testimonies
I would consider as strong evidence of SRA because as you go for example to the criminal
courts and those successfully prosecuted SRA cases in the UK are an example of this that
you will have witnesses talking about SRA and what happened in the SRA and if the the prosecution
is successful in convicting the defendants that means that the standard of proof beyond reasonable
doubt has been reached on the evidence of SRA in the case because if the SRA was disbelieved then
the whole case crumbles because what the defendants are alleging took place was SRA and it wasn't
hidden or disguised in the courts it was openly shared by the witnesses the witnesses were deemed
to be reliable and truthful and so the prosecution was successful and the very high
standard of beyond reasonable doubt was achieved that's why I say that SRA has been proven in the
British courts on more than one occasion on at least 10 occasions to be existing in the UK
beyond reasonable doubt so you're saying there are a number of people in the UK who have been convicted
of crimes for satanic ritual abuse not strictly speaking the crime of satanic ritual abuse because
unlike certain states in the US like Idaho who have codified a law on SRA specifically we don't
have such a law on SRA yet in the UK because of the general disbelief so what we have are the
existing laws which would of course cover different aspects of SRA such as raping a child obviously
that would be a crime in the UK right in the existing law harming physically harming a child
that will also be under existing law as often satanists do pimping out a child
for sex that is also under existing law we would like to see at some point a law brought in on SRA
like similar to the ones in states like Idaho in the US because that would not only be official
acknowledgement of SRA in the UK law which could also be used as leverage to get more resources
and training for the UK police to investigate such cases but that will also be a way to bring in
much tougher mandatory sentences for SRA much tougher than the existing penalties for child
sex offenses in the UK but we we have had successful prosecutions and the SRA evidence
was not withheld it was openly shared in court it was believed it was if it wasn't believed the
defendants would not have been convicted so the standard of beyond reasonable doubt was satisfying
so when the witnesses I'm sure they're like you said there was multiple witnesses in some
of these cases right and a lot of their stories corroborate how could one person be convicted
if I mean it sounds like these rituals go down with lots of people there so wouldn't it be more
of a conspiracy with lots more people being prosecuted not just one I mean is it one person
by themselves or is there a group of people attending these rituals what do they look like
you you will get in many cases a group of people at the rituals and sometimes they will be
successful in prosecuting more than one person who participated in the rituals sometimes
because of perhaps lack of evidence against certain individuals not all the participants
will get prosecuted it just depends on the witnesses whether they can identify the individuals
whether they have reliable evidence of seeing those individuals committing the crimes and
this is part and parcel of how successful they are to to prosecute the individuals involved
there's no guarantee that they can in all cases get all the individuals sometimes they may get
people involved perhaps at the lower level but maybe people at the higher level have covered
their tracks well enough that they don't get prosecuted successfully or even prosecuted at all
I'll give you one example where they managed to successfully prosecute a number of different
people in the coven so this is in a way it's it's one of the more positive recent examples
of what the police can do successfully in a case when they actually try to do their job
I actually went to a talk by one of the police detectives on this case and she made it clear
that it wasn't easy but because they persisted and they had the will to pursue the investigation
they achieved this successful prosecution of a number of satanist abuses and in my view that is
an example of what other police forces can achieve across the UK if they actually had the will
to investigate and pursue these investigations the biggest problem is not lack of resources the
biggest problem is lack of will you see so I'll read out this successfully prosecuted case and
it'll give you an example of what can be achieved when the police are willing to do their job
on march 11th 2011 Colin Batley the leader of a satanist coven was convicted at Swansea crown
court deaths in Wales of more than 20 sexual offenses against children including 11 rapes
he and other satanists had ritually abused children in Tidwellie Wales where their coven was
based the children some as young as 11 were subjected to and I quote organized and systematic
abuse by Batley his wife and two women coven members so it wasn't just Batley who got prosecuted
his wife and two women coven members Jacqueline Marling age 42 was jailed for 12 years for aiding
in a betting rape causing prostitution indecency with a child and inciting a child to engage in
sexual activity Batley's wife Elaine age 47 was jailed for eight years on three charges of indecency
with a child and sexual activity with a child Shelley Miller age 35 was jailed for five years
for indecency with a child and inciting a child to engage in sex a fifth defendant Vincent
Barden age 70 admitted assaulting an underage girl so this was a pretty good prosecution
and successful prosecution against a satanist group that managed to get custodial sentences for
a lot of the members of the group and is a positive example of what can be achieved
if the police want to achieve it it all comes back to will willingness to really go for the
investigation pursue it thoroughly have you ever been to one or ever seen witnessed one of these
rituals i've witnessed a ritual um satanist leaving a ritual having just finished
where was it when when was it what did it look like it was well it was indoors so i couldn't get in
but i saw them leaving the ritual because i didn't get that till quite late at night
because i'd been at other locations checking out other locations before i got there
and that was the one with the satanist meeting in the building and they were leaving and driving off
but i saw in a car uh at the back of the car there was a man about age 40 years old and in the front
was a boy um and of course you got to ask yourself it was about four a.m what is a boy
at four a.m doing in front of a car not in bed uh with this man dressed as well he was dressed
like Dracula at the back and Dracula yeah and that in itself causes a lot of questions why is
this boy up at four a.m and why is he sitting in a car with a man dressed as Dracula in the back
okay it was halloween but and that was probably their cover story or you know
with just a halloween time but keeping a boy up to that this was this was on halloween
on yeah 31st october which is their biggest date on the satanist calendar
if there's one day they will come out and do a ritual somewhere it will be 31st october
to them it's the most important date of the year why is that um also because of the belief
that that is when the the barriers between this world and the spirit world become most easily
crossed uh and they have of course a desire to get in contact with demons to raise demons
to communicate with demons so this will be a pretty good time for them to try and raise the
demons and communicate with demons because of the the lowering of the barriers between the physical
and the spirit world in their beliefs um they they would usually meet on this date so that makes it
a bit easier to do surveillance because other dates sometimes they'll meet on the actual date
sometimes they'll meet a bit earlier on another date uh or after that date
birthday as you mentioned yeah uh birthdays normally i think they would meet on the birthday
itself um another occasion when i knew they were meeting unfortunately these tended to be indoors
rather than outdoors outdoors it'd be so much easier to see them what they're doing uh was in a house
that i know is protected by the police because i know someone who tried to expose that house is
being used for sra and the police not only refuse to do anything but actually threaten threaten
this person for nosing about in that area and and want her that she might get hurt from nosing
around where it wasn't they claimed her business of course it was her business because her own
child had revealed being abused in that house and the police were protecting it it's a location
that has been used for sra for many years and i was there on the outside um legally i couldn't
just go in uh and i knew that the satanists were in there because i could see their their um
their vehicles on the outside and uh i heard a scream in from inside uh a young girl at about
3 a.m it was a short scream uh if it had been a long scream and help me uh calling out for help
then i would probably have had more legal justification to force my way in uh but because
it was a short scream and it didn't repeat itself for the rest of the night uh it was hard to
have a legal grounds to to force my way in because if i force my way in and there isn't
reasonable grounds to justify that then uh then the tables could be turned and i could be accused of
breaking the law so this is the difficulties one has when you're talking about indoors meetings
they do mean outdoors a lot the the tricky thing is to get them outdoors when they're meeting
because they have a variety most covens will have a variety of outdoor and indoor locations
for security reasons and they move from one place to another and i noticed that if they
meet at one location on halloween the next halloween they'll make sure they meet at another
location so they don't become predictable okay but can you walk through what happened oh sorry
go ahead yeah sorry but but if um if one was to come across then doing a ritual
uh i think it's important to
to at the very least try and get the police there uh i would i would suggest to audience
members if they ever come across sometimes i i know in the uk and these sometimes people have
stumbled on accidentally to satanist rituals uh in in the middle of the night when they were in
the woods for example and i would say try and get the police there as soon as possible if you see
that harm is being done to children even the presence of children there is enough to to warrant
police entrance because what on earth are children doing in the middle of the night
in this location they should all be in bed you know and it's very suspicious uh and
this this is what one should do uh on those rare occasions that one stumbles across these things
and i've seen some accounts of people stumbling on such things when they least expected sometimes
and they come across this satanist gathering uh in uh usually it's a countryside area or woods
so can you walk me through what typically happens during one of these satanic rituals um and
i've i have heard you talk about it on shan's podcast why are these people
attracted to corpses they believe especially the corpse is not uh been a corpse for a very long
time they believe that they can get the power and energy from the corpse that is still residual
in the corpse get it for themselves by for example having sex with the corpse
even maybe cannibalizing the corpse but sex with corpses is part of their sexual practices
because the satanist attitude to sex could be summed up with two words anything goes
so if they want to um have sex with bodies as jimmy savilded by the way he was a yeah
he was a volunteer uh so-called volunteer porter at a hospital known as leeds general infirmary
up in northern england and he used his access to the mortuary to
have sex with some of the corpses to position the corpses before they had rigor mortis and
they were still quite flexible in sexual positions and then take photos and he even stole the glass
eyes from some of the corpses which were blind in one eye so they had a glass eye
and wore the glass eye on his silver rings that he had on his fingers but he had a real
thing for dead bodies he even admitted in one interview with a magazine called q magazine in
1990 that um he he liked being with dead bodies but he denied as he would being a necrophiliac
he said in an interview that he liked being around dead bodies dead people yeah and he also
boasted to some context which didn't get into the media uh boasted to some people who knew him
that he had sex with dead bodies what was the context of that like why would he say that in an
interview that he oh yeah i like hanging out around corpses i guess he was talking about
himself his interests and that one of his interests would be um because he was known
to be helping out a lot in hospitals he was known to be raising a lot of funds for hospitals
so the talk about hospitals probably led to him talking about his working at the hospitals
and as a volunteer porter he would have also had one of his responsibilities would be to
transport the dead bodies down to the mortuary and that probably led to his talking about dead
bodies and his being whereas some people would be uncomfortable being in a mortuary or around
dead bodies he had the opposite he liked being around them of course he he wouldn't admit
that he liked sex with dead bodies he stopped short of that but but he had mentioned to some people
who revealed it after he died that he had had sex with some of the dead bodies in the mortuary
uh he he was a necrophilia in fact there are some nurses who also claimed that they spied on
Jimmy Savel because he was a celebrity they want to see what he was up to and when he wasn't watching
uh they claimed they spied on him and that they saw him having sex with dead bodies
so well as I said you know with satanist anything goes and I know from an ex-satanist
who used to go to a certain cemetery with her cousin to do their rituals that satanists are
attracted to dead bodies they want to get a power from the dead bodies and they will sometimes try
access a newly buried corpse for their own rituals for their own purposes which can include
having sex with the dead body so you should not be surprised at the sort of things they get up to
in terms of sexual behavior not just necrophilia bestiality sometimes they force their child victims
their sex with animals this all comes back to the do whatever you want attitude the the uh the
attitude of well we do not want to have any restrictions this is our understanding of freedom
we will do whatever we want to do we will experiment in whatever way we wish to sexually
with anything that moves dead or alive um this is you could say in a way the logical conclusion of
that kind of thinking and where it needs to and so that was it was it's not only several I would say
with confidence that there was internecrophilia a lot of satanist abusers are and they will
especially be attracted to a cemetery where bodies are still being buried so then you can get
they they can get the access to more newly buried bodies rather than a cemetery that for
decades or maybe even a hundred years has not had a new body buried there that would be less
of an attraction to them unless there's a history of that cemetery uh being associated with
occultic worship for example there's less reason to hang out there you've spoken to hundreds of
these victims or these survivors these satanic ritual survivors what are some of the stories
that you find are most common with all of them well there are many common characteristics
one of which is the satanist wearing dark clothes and chanting often in a language they don't understand
the other common characteristics will include
being gang raped I'm I'm said to say by the satanist I know one one woman who as a child
they would have the one is known as the black mass or satanic mass in a church that they
sneak into at night because one of the church members in fact it was the leader of the church
the vicar at that time who had the key and was the satanist abuser himself so he would let in
the rest of his coffin in at about 2 a.m and they would do their satanic mass and in the bread
they would put human ashes baked into the bread and for the so-called wine they would use blood
and after doing their satanic mass they would then um gang rape her
so can you imagine what it's like for a child one after another they would they would rape her
and she knew there was coming and she'd be kept in a cage in the church while waiting for all this
to happen they love to desecrate churches they love to desecrate uh church altars and they love to
defile children and she got went through all that she went through hell basically uh it it's
it's a miracle you could say that she's not completely broken it took years for her to heal
but she has made a good life for herself and she does a very good and responsible job but
as a child she she was exposed to all this hellish abuse by her own parents both her parents were
satanist abusers and one of her parents was a nurse can you imagine a nurse who has so much
power over patients who's actually a satanist abuser in reality that is a deeply concerning thought
uh and uh i said to her you know i wouldn't want to be one of your mother's patients that's for sure
but that was um the reality they were not a rich family so they are more like the working class
satanist abusers uh but they were doing uh a very regular abuse to her and her brother
so they would force on a regular basis they would force usually on the weekend
her and her brother to eat fishies and drink urine and on a regular basis usually on a saturday they
would take her to a pool swimming pool that they would have private use of they probably booked
it for private use and they would drown her in the pool uh and then revive her but it was like a
weekly suffocation session that it will have her grandfather was also a satanist and he would
strangle her on a regular basis they they seem to get off on that um and uh this was the life
the so-called life she led for for years um because she was born into that family uh fortunately by the
time she reached her teens she was out of it she had suppressed a lot of the memories because of the
shared trauma it's a defense mechanism but the memories will come back eventually and they did
uh and she uh eventually had enough memories to fill 19 pages
and i helped her to correct the grammar and the uh sentence structure because because of all the
abuse she suffered her her written english wasn't too good but she eventually managed to put it
all together 19 pages and went to the police the police had investigated but then eventually
closed it down and claimed that there wasn't enough evidence uh sorry they investigated
and then they referred it to the cps now this was one of those cases where the police did that job
referred it to the cps who are the prosecuting body but the cps the crown prostitution service
claimed there wasn't enough evidence so they refused to bring it to court so the whole thing
collapsed then the second time when she tried when she had more memories and tried to get a
police to reopen her case um i helped her with the spelling and the syntax of her statement
that was 19 pages long and went back to the police but because the police had had a negative
response from the prosecutors in the past they were reluctant to reopen and refuse to reopen
their investigation of course if there's more memories coming in more evidence coming in in
future she could probably get them to investigate again but at that time at least they were not
willing to to reopen the case but this is a case of the police at least trying to do that job
but the cps being too quick to to refuse to prosecute uh the case and uh i think the police
should have at least reopened the investigation when she went back on the second time because she
had more new evidence based on on new memories that she had since then have you heard of behemian
grove yes i have are you is there satanic rituals going on there what's going on in behemian grove
i've heard lots of crazy crazy conspiracy stories about it but i'm interested to hear your take on
it what i've heard of behemian grove is that there are satanic rituals occurring there
that a lot of influential people including people who are going to become us presidents
go there um
there is this strong implication that powerful people involved in sra are using behemian grove
as a place to meet uh and to do sra uh because my main focus is on the uk right i haven't
spent time focusing on behemian grove uh we have our own similar situations in the uk right
what we call vip abuse um the my take on behemian grove is probably we need a good investigative
journalist to really dig deep or good private investigator to really dig deep on the allegations
to uncover what's really been done there and what's going on uh i think that as in the uk where
we've had a former prime minister involved in satanic abuse and a number of government ministers
named by satanist ritual abuses of being involved in sra you probably have a similar problem in the
us i'm pretty sure that that's the case because this is all part of building the new world order
if you want to build a new world order with satanism at its core you have to recruit people
who are in government in civil service in parliament or your us equivalent of parliament
because you need these people on your agenda so i would not simply dismiss it as a conspiracy
theory i would i would see it as as a lead that needs to be followed up that needs to be investigated
more thoroughly um there are probably i suspect witnesses out there who can reveal more about
what's going on about bohemian growth but of course you have to gauge the reliable reliability
of the witness yourself um this is why witnesses have to appear uh at the very least by video
link if not in court in person in front of a jury so the jury can gauge is this person telling the
truth or not so i always uh want to meet the sra survivors that i'm helping face to face to gauge
their reliability um they they may be deluded or they may be lying i don't know i need to
meet them face to face and interview them face to face so that always helps in any investigation
have you come across any that were just full of shit or were lying to you trying to make up stories
about satanic abuse i i have from time to time come across people who claim to be sra survivors
who i think are not reliable uh it is not necessarily the case that they were lying
it could be that they were mistaken uh there is one sra survivor i know of whom i read her
statements she's not in the uk she's in another country another western country not the us
and when i read the statement i thought can't be true this woman is either deeply mistaken or
probably more likely trying to get attention trying to get attention uh because she was
overdoing it she was accusing practically anybody and everybody who's been a celebrity of some sorts
as having abused her and i thought no that just doesn't fit in with the the more because i've
seen a lot of authentic statements and this just didn't fit in and there was something wrong about
this um and i later had various contacts of mine who had met this person confirming to me that
this person is not to be trusted so my suspicions were confirmed by uh contacts who are experienced
on this issue having met the person uh face to face and and found that the person was not
to be trusted so these are a very small number i must emphasize very small number the majority the
vast majority are sincerely trying to expose the truth sincerely trying to have the true stories
believed so a few bad apples do not spoil the barrel as the saying goes and um
um we while having to to to be alert to this possibility we should not assume as a lot of
people do that most sra survivors are deluded or lying or mentally unstable that's wrong most sra
survivors are people who's honest people who suffered terribly and are trying to tell their stories
so as to protect children many sra survivors have a very um honorable objective of wanting to
protect other children from what they experience as children and that's why they speak out and
that's why they go to the police you know going to the police getting justice yes they'll give them
some healing some satisfaction but their overriding priority in most cases is they want to protect
other children from going through the same hell that they went through right and these these are
these are unsung heroes these sra survivors are unsung heroes they should be recognized for their
courage and for their sacrifices for other children well you as well i mean your your courage has to
be noted as well for doing what you do and being outspoken about the research you've done on this
and all the victims you've talked to and trying to get your your story and these victim stories to
reach as many people as possible um what can be done to shed more light on this and get more people
to take this more seriously i believe that we need to keep repeating the message of the evidence
hard evidence being there that sra exists so in the uk that hard evidence will include
the list of at least 10 successfully prosecuted sra cases i'm not saying this is an exhaustive
list there are probably other successfully prosecuted sra cases in the uk that have not
yet been added to the list uh the the fact that the metropolitan police service the largest and
oldest police force in the uk have publicly acknowledged the existence of sra of satanic
abuse on their website we need to keep repeating this because people seem to keep overlooking
this hard evidence and claiming very falsely that there is no evidence of course there's
evidence look at this evidence the trouble is they don't bother to stop and look at this evidence
which will only take a few minutes to examine and they will see the truth obviously the police
are not going to say that satanic abuse exists especially when they are so lousy at investigating
it unless it really existed but are there any bodies are there any skeletons are there is there
any hard physical abuse like there are hard physical evidence like that the the problem
was even videotapes you mentioned they video other rituals has anyone gotten their hands on a
on a video not yet not yet um i'm always open to the possibility that one day we will get hold
of that film but they're pretty good at hiding it and there are all sorts of technological ways
now to conceal things but bodies i would point out that the satanists are very good at covering
their tracks when they've done a ritual they will have a way to get rid of the bodies that
makes it practically impossible to find it for example they may have an access to a crematorium
uh i know of a certain satanist covenant for example that likes to meet
as what as one of the locations that they use next to a crematorium so that's pretty convenient
if they have an insider who's willing to help them access the crematorium throw the body in there
cremated nobody's the wiser what happened no evidence no corpse that's it
they are not the only satanists who may meet close to crematorium facilities
another way they may get rid of the bodies is to chop it up and throw it in the sea
or to bury the bodies
there are a variety of ways that they use which are pretty thorough at covering their tracks
it's not 100 secure and without giving too much away i would say that i know of an attempt
that it's ongoing now to try and find the remains of certain victims of a particular satanist covenant
but i can't say more than that because i know that satanists watch these interviews so i better
not give them a tip off unwittingly about the attempts that are going on to try and discover
the bodies but they are very thorough in the way they cover their tracks and it's not foolproof
we keep looking and searching in the hope that one day that small percentage chance of finding
the evidence including the bodies will pay off and we'll get it
but it hasn't happened yet so it's on the agenda to find but it hasn't happened just yet
but with more sra survivors coming forward and giving credible testimonies including
information about what the satanists do to try and cover their tracks i think that
eventually we will find this strong evidence we need the cooperation of sra survivors to come
forward and tell their stories and to feel that we will try and follow up the the leads the clues
they give us to pursue an investigation of that case so the more they come forward with details
of what happened to them or with details of how the coven for example the cover their tracks will
help us increase the chances that one day soon we will get that hard evidence and use that to
force the police to investigate the usual excuse given over here by the police is not enough evidence
the problem the real problem is not enough will to investigate but it's hard for them to say not
enough evidence if for example you show them human remains for example right left by satanist coven
then of course they're you know they look downright stupid saying oh not enough evidence
when you've got the human remains there even skeletal remains can turn out forensic evidence
for example so yeah the the day i believe when that happens is not that far off because we've
got more sra survivors coming forward sharing their stories this is where people like yourself
come in by publicizing the issue and a lot of sra survivors watch interviews like this
then they are encouraged to come forward with their stories and the details that they know about
particular satanist covens and how they operate that means more clues to follow up more covens to
investigate and it's only a matter of time i believe as this publicity grows about sra because
there's generally more public interest now than before about sra uh that we will have that breakthrough
but we have the successfully prosecuted sra cases in the uk anyway which had
enough evidence to satisfy the courts beyond reasonable doubt that the sra there was alleged
hit techniques so it's always important to remember that
if these satanists hypothetically got their new world order one day who do you think they would
choose as their antichrist that's a 64 000 question 64 000 maybe 64 million dollar question
uh various candidates have been suggested um like who
i don't i don't agree necessarily with those candidates who've been suggested
okay but just to repeat some of the allegations that have been made and i'm not saying i support
those allegations because i don't see myself my role as trying to guess who the coming antichrist is
what i prefer to do is to warn people about the satanist global agenda so that they won't
so that they won't aid and abet their own enslavement by supporting that agenda without
knowing what's at the end of that agenda so for example those who think that globalism is a great
thing be very very careful what you're supporting now is eventually going to lead to your enslavement
if you don't see the bigger picture behind globalism if you don't see the bigger picture behind
the new world order it's all satanists at its core uh so that is far more useful than knowing who
is alleged to be the coming antichrist some of this may even be disinformation to distract us
from the real person you see right right right or well-meaning people just making the mistake of
guessing but wouldn't they want to choose some high elite maybe even a celebrity like i don't know
wouldn't wouldn't they have like don't they just like Scientology has Tom Cruz and they have L Ron
Hubbard and they have uh um John Travolta you know they have these people to sort of bring more people
in people that they can look at and say wow look what this guy's done or look who this is if
they're doing it it must be okay um i think that uh the person they choose will be someone who
has good uh or convincing political credentials and good global political contacts
uh because this person is going to have to persuade other nations to sign up to the globalist
agenda so this person has to have street cred with global leaders and perhaps at least at one point
have been viewed and regarded as a global leader in the political realm and be taken seriously
on global issues uh because if they're not taken seriously as a global leader how are they going
to persuade nations across the world to sign up to globalism that's my my take i'm not i'm not saying
it's maybe the 100 has to be the case so for example one name that has been thrown out by some
and you can find this on youtube uh but i'm not going to say it's definitely correct or definitely
wrong is Barack Obama Barack Obama yeah now interesting he fits the bill for global street
cred he fits the bill for global contacts political contacts across the globe who are influential
he fits the bill for uh all this global heavyweight status uh plus the fact that
even without doing anything really he was nominated for and won the Nobel Peace Prize
the the person who is the antichrist will at the beginning come across as a man of peace
a man who wants peace who will lead the world into peace and globalization will be part of that
establishing peace worldwide agenda
and he will only reveal his true colors once he's firmly entrenched in power
then people will realize uh eventually not everyone will realize some will just blindly
follow him till the end that this isn't really a person of peace because he's leading us into all
these wars and all this chaos uh he will be a person who will be believed to be some kind of a
savior who will save the world from all kinds of chaos and trouble um let's look at the historical
example of Hitler for example Adolf Hitler would probably never have risen to power in
Germany if there had not been the deep and extensive economic breakdown in that country
because people were desperate for a savior to lead them out of the economic chaos the economic
uh disaster that they were in after the first world war
and Hitler appealed to them and persuaded them that he would save them and lift them out of it
and he did at the beginning manage to improve the german economy uh with a lot of government
works like building the autobahn across the country uh which he actually built not just
to solve the economic problems but to facilitate the the speedier and more efficient transport of
german troops uh so like the anti-christ the coming anti-christ adolf hitler had the people
on his side convinced that he was a savior did some good things for the economy which convinced
them even more that he was the right choice to be their leader uh and the german people only
woke up to his true colors when they were already deeply embedded in war a war that they were
losing but it was too late then to simply pull out so i think you're going to get the same with
the anti-christ because we have the mainstream media often giving us a distorted message of the
news i often say that the mainstream media is not there to inform us in reality the mainstream
media is there to indoctrinate us there are a few wonderful exceptions but most of the mainstream
media is there to indoctrinate us and get us to accept the new world order to sign up to the
global agenda coming to your your other question about why the mainstream media is not exposing
this uh satanic new world order agenda or satanist ritual abuse
one reason is because a lot of journalists um have signed up to satanism and got into the media
usually these are the journalists who are writing on a fairly frequent basis against the existence
of sra so in the uk media for example if if somebody has enough guts to write about the
reality of sra in the uk media it's only a short time before another journalist perhaps in another
paper will come up and say sra doesn't exist and try to attack the credibility of anybody who's uh
who says it does uh i actually have a list of names of satanist journalists in the uk media
and i'm sure that the list is not an exhaustive list that there are many more that i don't know
about and i know of certain newspapers and magazines that if you're trying to avoid to
expose sra you've got to avoid them like the plague because these have a long history of covering up
sra the other people who who may be involved in satanism who have influence in the media
are some of the media owners some of the rich people who own parts of the mainstream media
are probably involved in sra themselves which is why they they just keep quiet about the subject
and don't uh get the publications or the broadcasters that they own to talk about sra
so that's another explanation for why the mainstream media is just sitting on this subject
or helping sometimes actively to cover it up uh which is a problem we quite often have in the
uk and you probably will have something similar in the us uh the us of course has one advantage
in that it has a much more extensive spread of media so it'll be harder to control all of them
on this particular subject uh probably some of them are controlled at least the us also has a more
aggressive tradition of investigative journalism which we don't really have over here in the uk
uh the uk parliamentary expenses scandal nothing to do with sra so far as i know
was exposed by a journalist who had both american and uk citizenship citizenship
and she commented that things are a lot more closed here in the uk than in the us
because she started working as a journalist in the us and then came to the uk
and she's the one who exposed the parliamentary expenses scandal despite all of the obstacles
put in a way to cover it up uh she made a very interesting observation about the closeness of
uk society compared to the openness of the us but the us needs to be careful that if it doesn't
use that investigative journalism tradition to look into issues like sra and satanism and the
connections to the deep state and the connections to the new world order eventually it may well lose
that freedom to investigate these issues uh with freedom i often say use it or lose it you use your
freedom to get at these issues you don't treat them as if they're sacred cows or taboo subjects you
can't investigate and report on otherwise you're just aiding the satanist agenda which
eventually will enslave you and then you won't have any freedom to investigate anything except
what the satanist want you to investigate yeah the problem especially in the us i mean i mean
obviously it's way worse in other countries but the the big media platforms here are superpowers
like youtube and facebook if you do put out content on your own independently like this for
example there's a high risk of you being deplatformed or having it having it censored or demonetized
where these people can't earn income for reporting on this kind of stuff because it's not appropriate
for their platform and youtube to their discretion can their youtube's executives or employees or
whoever it is at youtube can at their discretion choose what is or is not acceptable for them so
it's a it's a scary thing for a lot of independent journalists like myself to create content around
these subjects around around these topics because it's risky um so anyways i mean i know a lot of
people in the uk too there's a lot of big youtube channels in the uk who have had to deal with this
kind of thing i mean there's a guy um what's his name there's a london reel i know he had he dealt
with a lot of problems with youtube for certain interviews that he's done so anyways well we we
need to fight for our freedom to speak on these platforms sometimes if they are threatened uh
there's always a campaign that one can do uh in fact we that's another thing that i often emphasize
is that freedom does not come free and we have to fight for it we probably have to fight for it
in every generation and in this generation i would stress the greatest threat to our freedom
are the satanists who want to build a structure of global slavery uh which is generally referred
to as the satanic new world order and it will mean in effect global slavery for all of us
and problems like getting stuff out on youtube or facebook will be tiny compared to the controls
that are coming down the road if we don't expose satanism sra their agenda soon and i always emphasize
the exposure has to start with sra because sra is criminal sra is horrific we start by exposing
the reality of sra uh maybe if you don't have it you need to put together a list of successfully
prosecuted sra cases in the usa to show people this is real uh the fact that in the us there are
police officers who are actually specializing or have training specialized on investigating sra
that's a good sign if you can talk to them and get them to show you if they have public
acknowledgement of sra on their police websites show you where it is and you can refer to that as
the evidence of existence of sra in the usa the usa is better at training relatively better i'm
sure there's room for improvement relatively better at training police on investigating sra
than the uk is so you might get more cooperation from some of the police in in looking up successfully
prosecuted sra cases or police acknowledgments of sra's existence on their police websites uh and
compile this as evidence that this exists once you start exposing sra uh what i've observed is that
there's a lot more interest in what the satanists are up to on the bigger global agenda
you you start to unravel what they're doing when you start with sra and then you move on to the bigger
picture of um what are they doing in government satanists in government satanists in the civil
service what are they up to what where are they pushing us all then it comes in globalism uh and
not just globalism but also increasing state control over families we have a big problem here
with social services trying to penalize parents who are trying to protect their children from sex
abuse by another parent that they will take the side of the abusive parent rather than taking the
side of the protective parent i heard from some sources that you have a similar problem in the
usa with the equivalent of our social services here i think you call them cps child protective services
right right um so this is a sign of the satanist agenda which is to take away parental authority
and autonomy and use state intervention in families to not only protect the abusive parents
where there is abuse including sra but to also dictate how the child should be brought up
how the child should be raised so i know a case for example in in the uk recently that happened
where a mother was being penalized by social services simply because she was homeschooling
her daughter and the social services were were bending over backwards to find fault with her
homeschooling and saying it wasn't good enough it wasn't done properly etc etc they don't like
homeschooling satanists don't like homeschooling because then you get to bring up the child
with your faith values if you have a faith so whether you're a christian or another religion
and you're trying to bring up your child in your faith values they don't like that because they
want the child to be brought up by the state because the state is pushing an education agenda
which is more in line with the satanist agenda for example sexualization of children through
sex education that is happening pretty extensively with the support of the state in the uk
and some of it is pretty graphic sex education so-called sex education is often in reality
grooming of children for sex with adults through so-called sex education in the uk i know of a
parent who says that he has to spend an hour or so detoxifying his child every day when the child
comes home from school because of all the stuff that the child is being indoctrinated with in school
this is what the state educational agenda which has been influenced by the satanist agenda
is doing to children what better way to groom a whole generation for sex at an early age than
through state imposed sex education the the room for scope for autonomy for parents in the uk is
steadily decreasing this is because the state wants to replace their authority with the state
and of course the big stick that they wave around if you don't tow the line
is social services coming to take your child away so this is another problem to look out for
that will be exposed more when once sra gets exposed more it's part of this big agenda for
controlling and micromanaging our lives and teaching our children what the state wants them
to know and to believe in rather than parents passing on their values to the children they
don't like that because our values may contradict the state's values every totalitarian state seeks
to control its children that's why hitler had the hitler youth and many of the hitler youth who grew
up uh in time for the war joined the ss and the communists had the communist pioneers for the
children they all know all dictators understand that if you get the child young enough you will
make them grow up to follow all your values and your political ideology so the the ideology and
values of satanism will be communicated to the next generation uh if parents give up their parental
autonomy and authority to the state um this will happen probably for the next generation
because this these efforts to indoctrinate children by the state are intensifying and
that's why we need to identify this problem uh and perhaps parents should get together
and and stand against these encroachments uh at least in the uk the state is just getting too big
too powerful uh encroaching into many areas of people's lives and of course covid-19 now gives
them a license to encroach into even more areas of people's lives and needs to be cut back and
needs to withdraw especially from issues that have been traditionally dealt with by parents
themselves rather than by the state uh they should respect parental autonomy
because this is going to influence the next generation of children and and so we need to
guard that very jealously uh the rights of parents that is extremely terrifying some of the things
that you've been studying and that you just explained um it's the dark new world the dark
new world order that is coming if we don't make a stand if we don't speak up and expose
what's going on well i appreciate all the work you're doing and the dedication that you have for
this subject um where can people go online and find out more information about what you're doing
watch more of these talks or watch more about what you're doing and follow up with you
well they can uh visit my website uh the casserole website which i'll send you the address for
okay i'll link it uh in the description below they can uh
email me with a request for more information about sra um about
uh some of the issues we've been talking about
they can of course research it themselves on the internet but bear in mind there's
also a lot of information this information put out by satanists on the internet because
they want to challenge the exposure of sra uh much of which is taking place on the internet
so they have to set up their own but sometimes they will not well most of the time they will
not admit they're satanists so they'll just perpetuate the myth there is no such thing as sra
or even if there was it's very small negligible numbers uh so look out for for for those traps
because they do exist out there and the satanists have a lot of money to set up these websites
um we there are more and more good interviews on sra out there especially on youtube but not
all of them are necessarily good so you you you need some discernment and i've got a various
interviews i've done that are on youtube uh and we should use that space now while we have it to
get the message out because there's no guarantee especially in light of what we
discussed there's no guarantee that we're always going to have this kind of platform and freedom
to talk about these things well cool man thank you so much for doing this talk with me um and
sorry one more thing if you want to know what what you can practically do yes to to to oppose
hasare and to expose it then of course i can always give advice i have already given some
advice in this interview but i can always give more by email it's time that they stopped having a
free pass they've been getting a free pass for too long to carry on sra and for the sake of the
children and the vulnerable adults who are victimized by them we need to withdraw that free pass
you
