I shoulda hit my knees and pray for better ways
He play at the red light, he'll catch a red light
Promise baby if you head right then I'm the head knight
I went broke, I got my bread right, I got my bread right
I went broke, I got my bread right, got my bread right
My name is Rod Wave, I'm from St. Petersburg, Florida and I create music
I'm Nana, this is my grandson, my second to oldest grandson
And I've been here, we've been here in this house for over 25 years
Radarius, Booby, Nuna, they call him that whatever
But I call him Booby, you know, but they tell me my niece that live in Atlanta
Kwanis say that some of the people that heard his CDs in Atlanta and they love him
The first CD he made is two songs on the CD that I really do like in this hard break hotel
And I like mama said I need, yeah I thank too much
My mama she stay around the corner, my daddy stay out the street
I always stay out the street, the house I lived in when I was, I was made down there
Then I was raised down there
How did you first get into music?
Shit, my, my um, like fifth grade, I wasn't really into the music, my big brother was into that
shit, but he found like a scene, you know what I'm saying, just chilling around the house, so
like he used to force me to sit down and sing and shit, like, like bro just saying this for me,
let me see how this sounds, no, no, no, I'll say this, you know what I'm saying, so
And then once we got, you know, my daddy when the prison we got separated, I just,
I just used to be in the habit of just coming home from school, getting, doing it in school,
writing it, so I was, it just came, you know what I'm saying, like fifth grade from now,
I still just be in the habit of just, oh I need to make a song on the day, you know what I'm saying,
oh I feel like making a song on the day, you know what I'm saying, well I'll go through some shit
and be like, yeah, damn, that should be a raw ass song, you know what I'm saying.
What does your music represent?
Every day life or what I go through, you know what I'm saying, people who got shit in common
with me, go through, you know what I'm saying, shit I've seen, shit I've been through, how I
be feeling, you know what I'm saying, it's really no perpetration, you know what I'm saying, it just
be how I'll be feeling or what I be going through or how i feel, you know what I'm saying, I'm not,
I'm not a talker, you know what I'm saying, I don't know how to talk to people, I don't know how
to express myself, so whenever I have shit on my chest I just, you know what I'm saying,
and ball that shit up.
So with music, I could just hit a beat
and just, that's how I talk to people, you know what I'm saying?
About certain situations, how I break down my story,
how I be feeling, I put that shit on wax, you know what I'm saying?
I always made the music, but I never recorded,
like in middle school and shit.
You know what I'm saying?
Even when I'm my first song that I ever put out,
I didn't put it out.
You know what I'm saying?
My homeboy, he was like,
bro, this shit sounds good, you know what I'm saying?
Maybe if we go to a real story, it'd be better,
but this shit good.
I know Nick is blowing up with shit.
It ain't worse than it is, you know what I'm saying?
Just let people hear it.
I was like, listen, you do whatever you want.
You want to let people hear it?
Go ahead, you know what I'm saying?
And he put it out for me.
And he had like three, four songs that we had.
Did he just put them bitches out one by one?
And people was like, yo, that shit funky.
When they told him that that ain't the truth.
When it become, when it come on with no bass at all, right?
It's all piano keys.
All piano keys, like, I don't know which one is bass, but.
I'm more comfortable now, like right now,
I could get a bus out singing, you know what I'm saying?
But back then I couldn't do that.
I had to be in a secluded area, you know what I'm saying?
In a secluded spot with nobody really paying attention.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, that's why when I first started,
my music didn't really have no face to it
because I didn't want it like that.
I didn't want nobody to, I was still shy, you know what I'm saying?
So you're kind of getting used to that, getting over that?
Yeah, it been a little minute, you know what I'm saying?
Going on stage, we in a way, you know what I'm saying?
We in other cities, you know what I'm saying?
Motherfuckers fucking with me.
You know what I'm saying?
That kind of boosts a nigga confidence.
Like, it don't blow up a nigga head,
but it boosts a nigga confidence
because I've never been like the nigga who want attention.
I've never been like that, you know what I'm saying?
I've never been like, you know what I'm saying?
Like a clown, clown, no shit.
Always just been laid back chilling, you know what I'm saying?
I've never been in the way, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, for sure.
So now that I'm in a music business
where you have to be in the way, you know what I'm saying?
It kind of threw me for a loop.
I had to change a lot of shit that I do, you know what I'm saying?
Like, I never had an Instagram
until I started making music.
I never had a Facebook, you know, I had one,
but I wasn't like posting and shit like that.
Right.
What's the kind of biggest, like, live show that you performed?
Uh, Janet's Live with Kodak Black.
Man, that shit was a whole another level, you know what I'm saying?
That's your inspiration.
To see a nigga come from what I come from,
you know what I'm saying? In a different form,
you know what I'm saying?
Can have all these races and these genders
and all kind of shit in one spot, you know what I'm saying?
For you, you know what I'm saying?
Hear your music, you know what I'm saying?
Hear your music, bro.
In a whole another city, you know what I'm saying?
Bro, all these people together,
and they listen to your story, they listen to your message,
and they feel it, and they understand it,
and they want to know more about it.
That shit kind of inspired me to go further
because that's all I ever wanted was to be heard,
you know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
I just never had it in me to just get in front of a bitch
and hit my story, you know what I'm saying?
That was kind of like my way to just sneak it in there,
like just drop a song, and whoever hear it,
hear it, you know what I'm saying?
One thing about my music, bro, when a person hear it,
you know what I'm saying?
If they like it, it's because they feel it.
You know what I'm saying?
It's not because all this shit got a nice beat,
you know what I'm saying?
It ain't because, what the fuck, this shit ain't clickbait,
you know what I'm saying?
It ain't because it's on WorldStar,
but I know you've been on that shit,
but if a nigga listening to my shit,
he listening to my shit, you know what I'm saying?
So I know in 10 years, I'm gonna have a whole lot
of listeners and core fans that I could book a motherfucking
arena with 30, 50,000 people in that bitch,
like Drake or some shit, you know what I'm saying?
Because Drake music, you could feel that shit
what they be talking about, you know what I'm saying?
Even if it's about some lovey-dovey shit, you still,
even if you've never been through it,
you still can understand a little bit.
You can relate to it.
How do you feel about where you are right now
in your life and in your music career?
Man, I'm really, I don't give a fuck.
Nobody said I'm happy because once upon a time,
I was doing some whole other shit, you know what I'm saying?
I was taking people's shit.
I wake up in the morning with $20 in my pocket,
like, bitch, I got to go do something.
You know what I'm saying?
I'll come take your shit, you know what I'm saying?
Burgary, burglary, you know what I'm saying?
Nigga, nigga do anything for that cheese, man.
It's just the way of the city, you know what I'm saying?
It's not a trend or no shit, but when you see these niggas
coming through, you know what I'm saying?
You can see these niggas pulling back.
You see these niggas spreading, you know what I'm saying?
It's like, man, I don't want to, you know what I'm saying?
I want to be straight too, you feel me?
But this is what I'm from, you know what I'm saying?
I ain't come from the outskirts of the city,
like some of them niggas way out of the north side
and come here and try to thug.
Now, but y'all raised over here, you know what I'm saying?
I grew up with these niggas.
What I come from, it ain't safe to believe.
What I come from, they ain't chasing a dream.
What I come from, it ain't safe to believe.
If you get to collab with any artists, like, who would you want to work with right now?
I mean, like I said, like, my music, I don't do it because it sounds,
you know what I'm saying? I don't do it because it's funk.
I don't do it because the beat is nice.
I do it because I be going through shit, you know what I'm saying?
So if I was able to collab with somebody,
it would be because I heard his music and because I'm a music head first, you know what I'm saying?
I always listen to all kinds of music.
So it is because I heard your music and it kind of simulates what I be going through.
You know what I'm saying?
So I feel like me and you kind of together,
I struggle to be on the same song or I everyday life would be on the show.
I don't just collab with the picker, they hot, you know what I'm saying?
Don't give a fuck, nobody say.
You got some old party ass shakin' shit.
I ain't really trying to do no song with you for real because
we ain't got shit in common for real.
Yeah.
Or you might got a nigga who might say something,
nigga, I'll pull up on your street and shoot you in the head, shit.
I ain't really fucking with that, you know what I'm saying?
I don't really...
Not because I ain't on that, but I'm trying to spread another message, you know what I'm saying?
These little niggas catching elbows out here, you know what I'm saying?
They losing their life, you know what I'm saying?
Mama losing their kids and shit.
So I'm on a platform, not a world.
If I say some shit, a lot of motherfuckers don't hear it.
You know what I'm saying?
If I say some shit, right?
Yeah, I got a chance to change shit, what would I be?
You know what I'm saying?
So I ain't knocking nobody shit.
I just...
I wouldn't want to get on the song with you because
we ain't two different lanes right now.
I'mma push your shit, I'mma help you.
If a nigga ask me about you, I'mma tell him a good shit about you.
You know what I'm saying?
But man, you ain't two different lanes, you know what I'm saying?
I'm on some whole other shit right now.
City of St. Petersburg is me, you know what I'm saying?
Everything that I am is the reason, you know what I'm saying?
Other than my mom and them, it's the reason, you know what I'm saying?
I don't win the world with these niggas.
I don't win the school with these niggas.
I don't win the JDC with these niggas.
These niggas is me.
We all the...
You know what I'm saying?
That's why I can punish it like this.
And they...
You know what I'm saying?
Because we each other, you know what I'm saying?
I'm you, you, me.
We done been through the same shit.
I'm just making music now, you know what I'm saying?
This city, this city means a lot to me, bro.
Because I wouldn't be up on game high and shit, you know what I'm saying?
Without this city, you know what I'm saying?
I'd be, you know what I'm saying?
This city means a lot to me, bro.
Like my family, this is what I was raised at.
I've never been nowhere else.
