Hello, world. On this week's episode of the Concrete Podcast, we're back with everyone's
favorite con man, Matthew B. Cox. This podcast tells the story of a kid in his mid-twenties
named Blaine Davis, who managed to steal tens of millions of dollars utilizing foreign
exchange market trading, otherwise known as Forex. Blaine was so slick that once the
market crashed in 2008 and the federal indictment started closing in, he was not only able
to siphon millions of dollars offshore, but he was able to shift all of the blame of his
Ponzi schemes onto one of his biggest victim investors by the name of Donovan Davis. Blaine's
multiple Ponzi schemes were ultimately rolled into the largest Forex Ponzi scheme in history.
Blaine is scheduled to be released in April of 2021, yet his victim investor Donovan,
the one he was able to shift all the blame onto and the only innocent man in the story,
still sits in prison with a decade left to serve. This might be one of the best stories
Matt's ever told on the show. We really enjoyed it, and I hope you do too. Enjoy the show.
What's up? Double, double ventes. They fucked the coffee up. Matt's rocking the double venta.
What's in that? We're in those cups. What's it missing? It's a, the sugar is probably at the
bottom. It's all right, drink a little bit and I'll stir it up. How much sugar again? How much
sugar are you putting the coffee again? Eight raw sugars. Eight raw sugars per cup. Venti
vanilla latte with eight raw sugars, and I got two of them. So this one I drank on the way here.
Okay. Make sure that thing's empty. What's straight sugar at the bottom? Octane, baby. Oh yeah,
that's the good part. And this one, so that's, that's good. Okay, so, all right. Back by popular
demand. X con man and true crime author Matthew B Cox. What's up, Matt? Thanks for coming back.
All right, I'm excited. What are we going to talk about today? Today is about a story I wrote about
a guy named Donovan Davis, which is locked up in Coleman. And it's, you know, honestly, it's
really more about Blaine Davis, which is a con man that has run, I guess, three Ponzi schemes,
and is currently in prison right now, but being released in a few years, unlike Donovan, who's
serving 17 years, for being duped by being duped into participating in a business that ended up
being a Ponzi scheme, that he was unaware it was a Ponzi scheme. So that's really exciting. Yeah.
How come all these con men, what's up? I mean, look at this. Yeah, you want me to hold this and
the same thing that happened last time. What happened last time? I mean, what happened last
time is you said, Hey, make sure you get some talking point, prepare something like I'm
unprepared. I didn't say that. Yes, you did. Send me it. I'll give you the text. You were like,
send up some talking points. And then I prepared talking points. I spent all day preparing talking
points. And then you guys were like, where's my talking points? Shit, bro. What's up? This is a
podcast, Matt. It's a podcast, bro. We just talk. Apparently, everybody hates when I fucking talk or
when he fucking talks. They just want you to hear you. I mean, they love you. How are the comments
in that last one? Like, I read like, I read like the first. There's some venom filled people on
there. They were spitting some hate. What are they saying? Oh, are you reading them? Yeah. Yeah. Danny
sends me a couple here and there. I just read them. There were, there's fucking, there's like,
there's probably a thousand now. I got to the point where I read like 10 and I was like,
because this is different. This is vastly different. I kept reading. And when I got to like 50 or 60,
I was like, fuck, I don't even think I want to call. I was gonna call. I was like, when I first,
first fucking 10, I thought, maybe I should call Danny and say, have you seen these? But by 50 or
60, I was like, fuck, this is, this is bad, bro. 95% of them are those two fucking morons. Quit
fucking interrupting. Matt talks you piece of shit. I was like, God damn, these are vicious.
Don't you mind? I'm not. I mean, I'm used to guys being rough around the edges, but it is pure
venom. Are they that vicious in prison? No, no, it's more like you stop saying thank you and please,
you stop, you just, you're just like, you know, it's like, hey, man, let me give you some, let
me get some sugar. Yeah, all right, man. I got, all right. You can't even be that vicious in prison
because you'll get your ass. Yeah, you're two of it. Yeah, you couldn't see the stuff these guys
were saying. Yeah, there's no limits on the internet. Fucking dumb. What kind of motherfucker
doesn't know what Sodom and Gomorrah is? I know what the fuck Sodom, you fucking millennials,
these fucking, I'm like, God, I remember when I finally, I said, listen, I wasn't going to say
something. That's the first text I said. Who doesn't know what Sodom and Gomorrah is? Come the fuck
on. It's bad. I was like, have you read these? And you were like, yeah, bro, they're pretty bad.
Then you got to the point after you read enough of them, you were like, did you read this one?
This one is pretty good. Listen to this one. I'm like, yeah, if you get over the fact that they're
being vicious, it does become comical. You can remove yourself from the situation.
But even when I was like, oh, look, here's, oh, look, here's one. Look,
Matt, bro, you're fucking awesome. You did great, except for those two fucking morons,
those motherfuckers. I was like, God. Some guy called me a 200 pound hat rack. Oh, yeah, by the way,
if we can get that guy, that was the best one I ever read. If we can find the guy who left the
comment, what was his name? I don't remember. We had the screenshot of it, but if the guy
sent you a free sweater for that, leave a comment on this one, the guy who called him a 200 pound
hat rack, and we're going to send you a box full of free shit, free merch, free concrete merch.
Oh God. All right. Anyway, we want to keep those people around. Yeah, we love that shit.
They're entertaining. I hope they keep fucking going off because it's fucking great.
Yeah. So how did you meet, how did you meet Donovan in prison, and how did he kind of,
how did he introduce his story to you? Donovan is, I want to say Donovan is six foot tall.
God, he's got to be at least probably 300 pound big belly. He used to have a beard,
which he would, he would, he would get like, you know, cut like really specific to, and he would,
he told me, well, I get it cut like he's, he called it facial architecture. He said,
it makes it look like I still have a jawline. He doesn't. Yeah, it doesn't. I mean, he's just,
he's just a big teddy bear. You know what I'm saying? He's just a big guy. He's, he says he's
Jamaican, but, and he is Jamaican, but his ancestors are from India. So he's just a big Indian guy
who's with a Jamaican accent, and really he can turn on and off. And he's just a big teddy bear.
He's the nicest guy. And I forget what happened. We, we, we, you know, he got, he was new to the
unit and he, he looked at me a couple of times. We did the nod and then somebody said, Hey,
he's here for fraud. And then I don't know, one day we were sitting there talking and he goes,
well, what kind of fraud are you here for? And I said, bank fraud. And I know, what are you here
for? He's like, it was a Ponzi scheme. And I was like, Oh, we won't, I said, well, what'd you get?
He's like, well, I didn't get anything. I go, well, what'd you do? He's, well, I'm innocent. I was
like, Yeah, right. Nice. I like it. You played it all the way to the fucking hill.
That's kind of a, that's kind of a red flag that he actually may not be a con man if he said that
he's innocent, right? Oh yeah. He, he's, yeah, there's, he's, he's absolutely not a con man. I
mean, when you talk to him, you realize he's a dupe. He's the kind of guy and I used to joke
with him all the time. He's just, he believes pretty much anything you tell him. He's just
very much a nice guy who worked hard, his family worked hard and they have money. His family came
over from Jamaica. They started working like in a, like they started off as mechanics. And then
eventually they, they started doing a excavation and some land work. And before you know it, it's,
it starts taking off and they end up selling, owning a company. Like I said, they sell dirt.
They, they, they go and they lease huge plots of land. They go in, they dig out these huge
ponds and they just sell the dirt. And that's all they do. I didn't even know that was a thing
until he told me. And it's, it's, and it's, it's huge. So matter of fact, I was going to say for
you, you ought to go talk to his father and see if his dad will put up some fucking,
and sponsor the fucking podcast. I was going to mention that. That wouldn't be bad.
Why would his dad sponsor? I don't know. He's got to, he's got to advertise somewhere.
Who owns the dirt company? He has dad. He was advertised as dirt company on here.
I don't know if he does or not. I'm just saying it's worth, it's worth talking,
walking, making a phone call. Speaking of sponsors.
Oh, this episode of the concrete podcast is brought to you by, get the fuck out of here.
Bud Light. Are you serious?
Thanks to Matthew B Cox. We now have enough viewers to get sponsors.
They said has one 12 pack. Bud Light. Buy a 12 pack.
No. Icy cold. Brain octane.
None of his PO's are going to like that.
Who? What? Oh no, I was talking about the, the Bud Light sponsorship.
Oh, she'll be fine. She's fine. She came by my house today. I peed in the cup. She's happy.
Did she? I'm sure it'll, it's going to be turned out fine. She's good.
Are you allowed to drink? She mentioned you. Did she?
She goes, you know that guy? She said like his voice totally matches his, his, his,
what he looks like. And I went, I started laughing. I started laughing.
I don't know. That's a compliment or not. I don't know, but it made me laugh.
This is the gap. So I ended up writing Donovan's story because I started talking to him and he
explained about his story and basically, and what's great about Donovan a lot like, got a lot like,
who else? Like Rossini or you, Deverelli is that these guys are still fighting their case.
So they have lockers full of, of stuff. So if you say, if I said, well, when did that happen?
Oh, hold on. He'd co pull it out and bam here, July 2nd, you know, 2019, you know, 2008, whatever.
So he had all the documents. So it was perfect. So, yeah. So basically there's a guy named,
named Blaine Davis, no, no relation to Donovan Davis. So Blaine, Blaine was Ray or Blaine was born
in, I want to say Germany. He was born overseas. His father was in the military. He's been in a
bunch of different branches of military. One of the things that Blaine used to tell people was that
his father was in the CIA. His dad was insecure and did security work and, and defense contract
work. But I don't know if he necessarily was in the CIA. He might have been the CIA. I think,
I think he did do work for the CIA at one point. So he's done work for all kinds of different
branches of government. So he was raised like a military brat moving around all the time.
And eventually when he became, he was in his twenties, he, he wasn't making very much money.
He wasn't going to school. He had dropped out of school and he started doing forex trading,
but he's not making a lot of money. And what is forex trading? Sorry to interrupt.
I'm sorry. Forex trading is when you trade, you basically, it's like you're betting against the
rise and fall of different currencies. So it's currency trading. You're, you're betting that the
dollar will be worth more than the euro or whatever. You know, I don't know the exact
what the definition of, of forex trading is. Okay. But I'm sure I'm sure I just fucking said it wrong.
Basically they're, they're, you can buy, you can buy like options and you, you bet that it's
going to go up or down and then you get whatever the spread is and they'll do it on like a fraction.
So they end up, you end up, you can end up really leveraging what you've got. The problem is you
can lose everything you've got. The real problem with the whole market is that if I'm winning,
somebody else is losing. So it's kind of a back and forth that's, you know what I'm saying? It's
not like the stock market. It's like betting sports. Right. Yeah. Somebody's winning. Somebody's
losing. Exactly. So, but Blaine starts doing forex trading. So he's representing some guys.
He's using their money. He's investing their money and, but he's not making a lot of money.
You know, he's, he's very charismatic, good looking guy and very flashy, but he's not making a lot
of money. And so he ends up watching the movie, The Boiler Room, and he gets inspired by the
movie, The Boiler Room. And basically the reason, the reason I know all, like I have all the documents,
right? And what he actually, this is what kills me, is that when he was actually interviewed,
he actually tells the fucking IRS agent, which investigate, he actually tells them he was inspired
by the movie, The Boiler Room. Nice. Who the fuck says that? That's like saying, you know, it's,
like, I was inspired by good fellas. So he, so, and The Boiler Room's a movie about, it's just,
it's just huge fraud. Right. So what he does is he goes out and he convinces, Blaine convinces a bunch
of his buddies and friend to invest money with them. So give me 10 grand. I'll put it in the,
in 4x and I'll make you, you know, you're going to make, you're going to make $11,000, $12,000,
whatever it may be. So a couple of guys give them, give them 5 grand, 10 grand. It starts small,
but very quickly, these guys are making huge amount of money back. So they turn around and they say,
okay, I'm going to go to my sister and talk to my sister. Now, next thing you know, this guy's
putting in 20 grand, his sister's putting in 30 grand, is this guy's putting in 10 grand. This guy,
one guy put in, let's say $120,000. Blaine ends up, the dollar amount varies, but basically the
main number ends up being between like half a million to a million dollars he takes from these
guys. Friends and friends of friends. He ends up convincing one guy to help make spreadsheets to
track how the money's growing. The fact is the money's not growing at all. It's a Ponzi scheme.
Guys are giving you money in and then when you ask for your money back, I just give you your money
back plus a little bit of Danny's money. So you think, I just made 20%, Danny still thinks his
money's in the account. Danny's money's not in his account. I spent it on my new Mercedes.
Yeah. And then the next day when Danny says, I want my money back, I just take it from Bob.
I give Danny's original amount back plus what Danny earned. So you're paying new investors
with old investors' money. You're just hoping that all the investors will ask for their money back
at once. Absolutely. Because then you go under. Well, that's what happens with Blaine is that
eventually he's one giving too much, the returns are too high. He's not Bernie Madoff.
Yeah. He's giving them too much money back. Right. Bernie Madoff was giving you enough that you're
doing better than everybody else, but not so much that it's not unreasonable. And so he was able to
go forever. Blaine's not that sharp. Blaine's giving guys huge returns. And so eventually,
he can't pay out the returns and one or two people ask for their money back. And then he spends them
and he spends them and he, you know, oh, I'm in Europe right now or oh, my phone, it doesn't work.
I couldn't return your email. Oh, didn't you get the wire? Didn't you get the wire? I've read all
the excuses. How old is this? How old is he at this point, by the way? Early 20s. Early 20s.
Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. So, bro, and I mean, you know, anyway, he's... You've got to be smart
in your early 20s to at least even know about all this type of stuff before trading and shit.
He's sharp. He's sharp and obviously he's ruthless. Yeah. So people are pulling money out of their
face. He's convincing people to pull money out of their 401k. Get 30 grand out of your 401k. Give
me 30 grand. I'm going to have you $45,000 within six months. You're never getting your 40. You're
not getting your 30. Right. So this goes on and on and eventually these guys kind of start grouping
together because they do know a lot of one another. So eventually a group of like, I think seven or
eight of them get together. They track him down at his house and... Oh, yeah. This is the video.
The video. You have a video of this. I have a video on my website, Inside True Crime,
which is on YouTube. And it's the video. One of the guys brings a video camera and videos them
confronting him. And they're telling him he's going to sign this piece of paper. You're going
to this. He's all like, well, how much time do I have to give the money back? And at one point,
he says, he's like, well, I don't feel comfortable with all you guys are pressuring. And they're
like, we don't feel comfortable with you stealing from us. And he's like, all right. So he signs. And
one of the guys at the very end of the video, they cut it off. One of the guys is like, look,
if you don't have the money by like Monday or something, they're like, we're going to come back
here. He goes, I'm going to come back here with some other guys that aren't like these guys.
You would be sorry. And they cut the video. So it's pretty funny. But yeah, it's on the
website. So, okay. So, and basically I know about that whole scam because it was all in the FDLE
report, which I have this whole FDLE report. But let me keep, let me flip through here
just so that I can keep up with where I'm at. He loses the money. So basically these guys end up,
they go to his house. He doesn't have the money. They say, he says he's going to have the money.
He doesn't have the money. And eventually he just moves, picks up his shit and he moves.
Naples, right? Yeah, moves. Exactly. So he loses Orlando, moves to Naples. What was that?
That's a Melbourne? No, Naples. Naples is on this coast and the Gulf Coast. Okay. It's probably
like two hours south of St. Pete. So when he's there, he meets a guy named, he meets a guy named
Damien Broomfield. Damien is kind of a computer geek and he's working IT for some company and he
meets Damien's girlfriend knows Blaine's wife or fiance or whatever. Yeah. And they end up at a
party together and they start talking. He sees that he's driving a nice nuke, you know, Mercedes or
whatever. And so they have a little chit chat and they both kind of fancy themselves as being,
you know, savvy business guys. And so Blaine starts talking up Damien, tells him about how he's in
forex, making a bunch of money, doing really well. They hit it off and they decide to go ahead and
start or Damien decides to give him some money to invest. So he gives him like 50 grand to invest.
Is it 50? Yeah. It's 50 grand to invest. So he gives him like 50 grand and Blaine basically blows
that money. And so when Damien comes back for the money, he says, he convinces them, listen, let's open
up a business together. We'll open up a forex trading company. We'll trade forex. It's like a, you
know, like a hedge fund or something where you guys will invest and we'll invest their money.
So I don't quite know if Damien at that point knew his money was gone or if he just kind of joined
him. He very quickly realized his money was gone because Damien immediately turns around and starts
raising money. Well, the guy that Damien knows that has money is a guy named Donovan Davis.
So he goes to Donovan and he says, hey, Donovan, Donovan's driving a Porsche.
He's got a Lamborghini. He's got, you know, he's got a Bentley. Explain again how he has money,
what his business does. He has money. His parents came here. They started a company
eventually and they buy and sell dirt. Yeah. Okay. So buy and sell. They buy land. They buy land,
they dig it up, they sell dirt. I don't think they're buying dirt. So they're selling dirt.
Technically they are. Basically what they do is, I think all of Brevard County is like
two or three feet under sea level. So to build on it, you can't build on anything that's not
sea level. So they'll sell you the dirt to build up the land to build your house or build your
subdivision. It's just filled dirt. Right, filled dirt. That's smart. You own the real estate and
you just mine it for fucking revenue. They don't even own the real estate. They don't even own the
real estate. So you have 40 acres. They come in, they say, we're going to lease it for the next
two years and we're going to dig out X amount of dirt out of your land. And when you're done,
you're going to have a bunch of huge ponds and you can turn around, you can sell it to a sub
and create a subdivision. Now you can basically have lakefront property. And they go, okay,
cool. So they go and they dig a bit, dig here, dig here, dig here. When you leave, you're happy.
They just, now it's a bunch of ponds. So I got this lakefront property. I can have a developer
come in, put them in the rows and I can sell it off like that. They're happy because they've
been able to sell that filled dirt. So everybody's happy. So that's what they do. And Donovan,
when he graduates high school, and he's always been working on that. I got pictures of him on my
website, InsideTrueCrime.com. So pictures of him and his brother working on excavators,
working on tractors. I mean, little tiny kids, they're up there. So they have,
what was that show, the gold rush show where they have the big drug, the dredges.
They've got a dredge. Damn. They're not fucking around. Yeah. So he's been doing this his whole
life. So he comes into the business, he starts working the business. And he said very quickly,
he ends up going into the office. And the business ends up just booming. Like he really takes it
from being this business is doing well to really doing well. I forget the number, what they, how
much it grew after he got in and really started. They were doing like in the millions per month,
you said. Right, right. It was it was a huge amount of money. So he's making a ton of money.
Like I said, Lamborghinis, you see his fucking house, man. It's a mansion. All from selling dirt.
From selling dirt. That's nuts. So he's doing great. Damien knows him. The families know each
other. Damien comes in and says, look, man, I'm starting this, this forex company. It's a, we're
doing management. We're doing forex trading. And we're gonna, we're taking, you know, you should
invest. I'm telling you easiest money you ever made. I can make you a bunch of money. Go to the
website, check it out. So Donovan does, eventually Donovan's dad's like, look, you know, he keeps
hounding Donovan. He's like, he's like, look, when he's trying to start up a business, give him
some money. So Donovan's all right, fine. He gives him like 50 grand. Well, like a month later,
Donovan's made like three or four grand off 50 in a month. He's like, fuck, he gives him another 50.
He goes online, he checks, and he checks it out. And he's like, yeah, look, I made the money. That
money is gone, bro. That money almost, that money went straight to Damien and to, um, and to Blaine.
It's like almost like a few thousand dollars was actually put into any trades. So he gives him
another 50 grand gone, gives him a hundred grand. Then he invites Blaine, a Damien to go talk to his
family. Donovan comes in and says, man, I'm, man, I'm making a bunch of money. I'm getting like
7%, 8% a month. That's like 70% a year. It's like, I'm sorry. It's like 80 something, 84% a year.
Fucking thing. I'm double to double my money. This is amazing. Yeah. He goes, yeah. And of course,
Damien say, well, I don't know much about it, but Blaine is a master trader. He knows everything
about it. Blaine's a hit or miss guy. I mean, it's difficult to make money in, in, in forex. So
anyway, next thing you know, the, uh, his aunt and uncle put in money. His, uh, they put somebody,
who was it put? Oh, his best friend puts in like 50 grand. Um, they put in another, somebody else
puts in like a hundred. Somebody else puts in, uh, 50. Somebody else next thing you know, he's
raised like half a million dollars from his own family. So, and this is, you know, Donovan's,
yeah, it's great. Damien, yeah, I'm friend of the family. So, you know, it's, uh, I think it's
called an infinity scam where you, you go to your friends and family and they become your first victims.
So it's fucked up. So they make a bunch of money. Well, then Donovan gets invited to several of these,
uh, of these conventions, these, uh, like, they're like meetings where the people come in and you
try and get investors and you sell, they sell software trading software and they sell different,
they talk about different platforms and companies come in like a trade show, like a trade show,
but they also kind of teach classes on it. Well, Blaine's there and Blaine's teaching the classes.
So when Donovan gets there, he's like, fuck, this is the guy. This is your partner. Yeah,
man. He's a master trader. Well, Donovan speaks with several guys from like PFG is, was the biggest
forex trading company that was out there, right? They were like a billion dollars or something
outrageous. So he, Donovan's there talking with these guys and these guys are like, oh,
this guy's amazing. This guy, Blaine's phenomenal. Everybody's could say nothing but amazing things
about Blaine, how wonderful he was. So Donovan's like, wow, well, they keep, he, they keep raising
money. Eventually they come to him. Eventually they come to Donovan and they say, listen,
you know, at this point, Donovan's put in, I think, two million, him and his family put in
like two million dollars. So they're doing pretty good. So Damian and Blaine are doing pretty good.
So they come to Donovan, they go, listen, man, you've helped us out so much. We're going to give you
a third of the company for $600,000. So you give us another 600,000, we're going to give you a
third of the company. And so he, I just remember when, when we taught, when he told me that,
the first time he told me that he was telling me the story, he goes, yeah, so, yeah, so they were
going to give me a third of the company. I remember I go, why? He goes, what do you mean? I go, why
would they do that? Yeah. And he goes, well, you know, because I'd helped them out. I said,
right, you gave him two million dollars. They're not making the whole two million.
They're making a small percentage on the trades. Yeah. Why would they give you a third of the
companies? Well, I was going to give them $600,000. I said, yeah, but they're doing well. And they're
just going to continue to do well. And you're already raising the money for no, for nothing.
For free. You're already helping them, introducing them. And all of these people are making money.
This thing's going to spread very, Ponzi scheme doesn't need a lot of advertisement.
It spreads pretty quickly because it's so phenomenal. Word of mouth.
Right. So why do they need you? I didn't know. I really knew nothing about his story at this
point. But instinctually, I knew something's wrong. You know, hand something over for $600,000
that to me is worth, going to be worth hundreds of millions. Right. And he goes, well, I, I,
yeah, I don't know. I mean, I gave him this, you know, $600,000. And so, yeah. And I was like,
and he goes, yeah, I mean, he goes, it was, it was a scam. And I go, what do you mean? He's,
it was a scam. They, they, they came to him, they said, give us $600,000. And all you've got to do
is raise money. So one, I get you for $600,000 more. And you bring in money. And I bring you in
and give you an incentive to raise money for me. And so that's what he does. He has his,
his lawyer look up the, look through the paperwork, his lawyer does do diligence,
checks out the whole model, checks out everything, checks out both Damien and, and Blaine and says,
these guys are amazing. This guy, Blaine is phenomenal. This is a great business opportunity.
By the way, Blaine had been arrested several times. The lawyer still couldn't have been,
he must have come up with all that paperwork and stuff. They're making it and suffer. Who the
Damien and, and Blaine, all this paperwork. Yeah. It's not hard to come up with a bank statement.
You just got to come up with a bank statement. Damien can do it. That's it. Yeah. He's got a,
he's an IT guy. Yeah. That's how he made up a fake website, right? With all the numbers. He's got
the website. He's got everything there. Listen, it's, it's, I could, I can come up with a couple
of the dummy website that'll fool you. So, and this guy's got a degree. So he knows what he's
doing. Totally fine. I was just going to say that. So you haven't looked at that once. Okay.
What ends up happening is, is Donovan puts in the money, he starts raising money and starts
raising a lot of money. They, they get a big office. They've got, they've got a bunch of these,
this, they got an office like in, it was in Naples, one in Melbourne. They've got their, so
they're kicking ass. They're raising money. Eventually this guy by the name of
Chris Roman, daddy comes in and listen, Blaine, Blaine is good. Okay. He's, he's very good at what
he does. And I'm an example that I use in here. The example is that, that Blaine at one point goes
to Chicago. So I'm pretty sure it's Chicago. So at one point Blaine goes to Chicago and he's
going to strip clubs and he's blowing money. The strip clubs are actually outside of Chicago. You
have to drive there. They don't, I don't think they, they don't have any insight. But anyway,
so he goes to the strip clubs, he's blowing money. Well, one day after he gets into a limo and the
limo driver, female driver hears him bragging about how he'd blown like 20 grand or something. He
blew over 20 grand in the last couple of nights on strippers and she goes, what do you do for a
living? And he says, I own a, I'm a forex trader and I own part of a forex company called Capital
Blue. And they came with the name capital, that was the name of the company, Capital Blue.
Why did they call it that? He thought I won, I don't know why he came with Capital Blue,
but I do know that he said Blue BLU. He knocked the E off because he thought it made it sound more
trendy. I actually have that in a, in a thing that they explain, they ask and he goes, I knocked
the knee off, the E off because it sounded blue. Now it's an ESIG company. So he, he, so she hears
him talking, he talks to her for five minutes, pitches her what he does. She says, I've got,
she says, I've saved $25,000 for my kid's child, for my child's college fund. She says, maybe I
should give it to you. And he says something like, he has our minimum, our minimum is like 40 grand
or 50 grand. I thought he said it was a hundred in the story. No. And what does he say? It's a
hundred. In the audio, in the audio, when you sent me, he said the minimum is a hundred, but I
guess 100. No, no, no, no, no, 100%. He says, yeah, you're right, a hundred thousand. Yeah. He has
a minimum is a hundred thousand. He said, but I like you, I'll take the 25,000. Damn, that's fucked
up. He just took her fucking kids. God damn, man. That's ruthless. That is ruthless. And she,
she, she wires the money like a week later, she wires the money. Donovan said, he goes,
I found out about that at my sentencing. That's the first time I ever heard that.
Of course, the money just right to blame. They're not, he's not trading it. So
what happens is they end up, they end up, there's a guy named Chris Roman, daddy, he comes in.
Who's, yeah, who's he? So Chris Roman, daddy is a, he owned, I think he owned the building
that they opened one of their offices in and he comes in and he's an investor
and he owns a bunch of real estate. He comes in and he, he meets Donovan, Donovan talks to him,
then Donovan arranges a meeting with him and he and Damian and Blaine and they all talk and have
a talk and he's dazzled and he puts a million dollars in and he works out a deal where he gets
2% of any money that he brings in from friends. So Roman, daddy goes out and he starts raising
millions of dollars. So Donovan's raising good money. He's raising some money. Roman, daddy
really rakes in the money. So Roman, daddy convinces them to buy a plane. So they, they end
up buying like a capital plane for capital blue. Yeah. I think it was a $2 million citation or
something. Right. So they can fly people around and all Donovan's really doing is bringing people
out on fishing trips. Matter of fact, Blaine actually tells the IRS investigators that he
thought of Donovan more as an employee than as a partner. He had, tells them he had no experience
in forex. Damian had very little experience and Blaine's a hit or miss guy. He's not, he's not
brilliant. He's not making a ton of money. The thing, and the thing is, here's what I always
asked Donovan. I was like, why would they hire, why would they bring you in? You don't know anything
about forex. Yeah. You sell dirt for a living. And he's like, right. And he said, well, that's the
whole thing. I think it was because I didn't know anything. Right. So you're gonna, you're gonna
blindly believe anything I tell you. Yeah. Cause I'm an expert. So if I tell you, this is how it works.
This is what you go tell them when they ask that. He goes, oh, okay. Yeah. Hey, rich guys and
hey, we're going to go fishing and this and this. Yeah, I'm making great money. You see my Ferrari
or my Lamborghini. We got a fucking plane. We're making a ton of fucking money. Yeah.
Well, how much money can I lose? Ah, like 20 per, the most you could lose is 20%. You can lose
everything you have. It's interesting that meanwhile Damian, or not Damian Blaine. Blaine. No.
Donovan. Donovan is still rich. His company's still making tons of fucking money during this
whole time. Right. So he's not, I mean, that guy's more than comfortable. Right. He doesn't,
he's thinking this is the next Google. These guys are making 100% a year, 90% a year. What,
what business do you do? Where, what, I give you $100,000 in a year later. I got 200,000.
How is he? You're late. I got 400. Is Blaine compensating him in any way? Well, he's, he's,
yeah, he is getting a salary. I think it's 12 to $15,000 a month. He's also owns the dirt business.
Yeah. He's like, all I really do is bring people on fishing trips
and, and set up seminars. So he's just investing his time in this, in this blue capital company
because he thinks it's going to be a huge hit. He's going to be huge. Plus he's making money,
and he's still investing money. He's investing his own money. His own money. Yeah. And getting family
and friends and investors and everybody to invest money in this, in this whole thing. So
the gap, it turns out, and I, that's where I actually got the name, because there's multiple
documents where they talk about the gap. The gap is the difference between what they actually have
in the bank. Liquid money. Right. Liquid money and what the investors think they have. So there's,
so there, the investors think they have $25 million. They're trading, well, they've already
pissed through a couple million dollars. They've only got 19 million left or 20 million left out
of the 25. So the gap is the difference between what they actually have and what everybody,
what they're supposed to have. Right. Yeah. And that's the gap. Well, what happens is they are
trading and they're trading with a company, one of the trades trading companies they're,
they're dealing with is a company called a PFG, Paragym Financial Group. And that's owned by a
guy named Russell Wusendorf. Wusendorf, and the company's worth like a billion dollars at this
time. So they're trading through PFG. Well, they give PFG the money. Well, what happens is in 2000
and 2008, there's just this catastrophic correction in the market, right? Because it's, you know,
it's coming up on the financial crisis. So the market's just up and down where there's this huge
correction and it almost wipes them out. So PFG does a margin call. Hey,
we want all our money. You guys are doing it on margin. Well, guess what? It's gone. We need the
money. So they immediately, Donovan goes in wires of a million dollars. So he's still dumping money
in. He's no clue. So they lose a huge chunk. I don't know if it's 20, 30%. I forget what the
percentage is. They lose just a ton of money. Oh man. So they lose a ton of money and Donovan
has no clue. Well, then there's another correction and basically the company's just wiped out,
whatever. So at this point, they're not wiped out. They still have somebody, but they're pretty
well, pretty beat up. So sorry, explain to me, explain this like for dummies. PFG, they're spending,
let's say they had 19 million in liquid cash in the bank and PFG is in control of that 19 million
because they're the company that's trading it. They're trading through them. Like they're trading
through PFG. For instance, if you come to me and I'm a mortgage broker, I can't just lend you the
money. I'm going to a bank, to a lender. You're the broker. Right. They're the ones who are actually
in charge of the actual funds. So PFG is the broker. It's like a bank. It's like a bank. No,
it's like a bank. Oh, PFG is the bank. Capital Blues like a management company. They're managing it,
but the actual company that's buying and selling all of it is PFG. Okay. So PFG,
to the money, they say, look, you guys told us to do this. We did it. You just lost your money.
Fuck. Right. So they're like, they don't tell Donovan though. Donovan still has no clue. He thinks
everything's cool. We're okay. They don't tell him that the positions are closed and the money's
gone. They say that the million dollars helped keep the positions open and they're going to leave
them open until the market corrects and then they'll sell and they're fine. No big deal.
Got it. No big deal. We just bought ourselves some time. No problem. He goes, okay, cool.
He's got no problem. He's still putting money in. We're good. I'm going to meet these investors
next week. We're good. So meanwhile, Blaine knows it's Blaine knows it's over. Yeah. Damien. Now at
this point, Blaine knows it's over and Blaine starts coming up with a strategy to start removing the
money. How do I remove? So I'm going to start removing all this as much money as I can so that
I can haul ass. And when I haul ass, I leave these two holding the bag. So what he does is he and
Damien end up going to Switzerland. Well, they go to Slovakia. They end up driving into
into Switzerland and they go to Julius Baer's bank, which is a bank that's,
you know, it's not like a fucking Bank of America. So they have banks all over the world,
none in the United States though. So what happens is they go there and they meet with a guy and
keep on, I'm getting all this from Blaine. This is all from his, his memorandum of interviews
that he gave. He said, Oh yeah, we met with this guy at Julius Baer's. We met with them all day.
They're the offshore kings and they told us how to open up offshore accounts and we spent the whole
day with them and Damien opened up an account and basically they opened up accounts. He then turned
around and he opened up accounts with several other banks and he ends up working out a deal with
Woosendorf where he sends him money and then Woosendorf wires parts of the money. He ends up selling
what's called a puts. So he ends up buying or selling off positions and he has the money wired
offshore to his own personal bank accounts. And the only reason I know that is because when we
ordered the documents, one of the documents I got back was Blaine had opened up several
offshore accounts in the names of different corporations. One of his corporations was called
Nakano Capital Advisors. So he also opened up a bank account with the Bank of China
and I have accounts here or I have withdrawals that were sent to him, 75,000, 50,000, 9,000,
$5,600, $34,000, $4,000, $51,000, $10,000, $110,000, $4,500, I mean $71,000. The total is
$4,900,000 that was sent to different bank accounts, one of them being the Bank of China.
So he's got Julius Baer's in the Bank of China. The only reason I want to mention that is because
it becomes relevant. So what ends up happening is at some point Damien realizes things are going
wrong. He knows money's being wired that Blaine's siphoning off money. He calls Donovan and tells
Donovan, listen, I think Blaine's stealing from us. So he then goes, tells Donovan, Donovan goes and
they go and they confront Blaine and Blaine says, you know, Blaine's drunk at the time and he's like,
what? He's like, yeah, he's like, look, you're fired. We know you're stealing money.
Because Damien tells, he shows Donovan proof that $115,000 was wired to Blaine's account
that was supposed to be wired to their account. And he shows him the documents.
Look, I've got the documents. Here's the thing. He was wired directly at his account.
And as soon as Damien showed Donovan proof of this, Donovan instantly got a moving truck,
went to the office, and then he got an employee to bait Blaine out of the office for lunch or
something. Yeah, for drinks. And so when Blaine comes back, he's drunk. He's been drinking, trying
to keep him there. And he's like, what are you doing? And meanwhile, Donovan's cleaned out the
office, cleaned it out, closed, locking up the doors. You're done. And he's like, what are you
doing? And he's like, you know, look, you're stealing from us. And Blaine says, that's that's
it. I'm on the, I'm on, I'm going, I'm going to Australia. But Damien's part of stealing it too,
right? Yeah, but Damien feels like all the trades are being done from from Blaine. And he knows the
whole company's going under and he knows Blaine's siphoning off money. Doesn't know how much,
but he doesn't know it. It's, it's happening. Yeah. So what do, what do I do? I'm in this,
what do I do? I need to step back with you who you're innocent and it's us against him. He's
the con man. Damien knows he had about the other Ponzi scheme he ran. Yeah. Damien's clean. So you
and I are clean. We're together. This guy's a fucking career criminal. He's already got one Ponzi
scheme. He then opened another Ponzi scheme and he got you and I, Donovan. No, he didn't. He got
Donovan. Yeah. You joined the Damien brought Donovan in. And you joined the Ponzi scheme.
When you found out your 50 grand was gone, you joined up with him to try and get your 50 grand
back. And you, you roped in Donovan and all of his fucking family and Roman Deity to get a bunch
more people. These guys have got $17 million. Some of the documents say it's 18 million,
some say 17. I got some that's 20, but I always go with 17 only because it's a more conservative
number. Yeah. Very conservative, but ultimately that's what Donovan was held responsible for,
including his own $2 million. So you're going to say I lost 17 million, 2 million of its mind.
Yeah. And we're going to send it to you on it. Fuck you. So restitution. That's it. You got to pay
back your own money. Damn. So I didn't didn't blame when Blaine showed up half in the bag to
the office. He's like, where, where's my, where's my file? Yeah. The file cabinet, which is where a
lot of some of the documents came from because at the, at the time he was already involved in
some legal shit, right? Oh yeah. He was trying to pick. He was paying back his original victims.
He was his first, his original Ponzi scheme victims. He's paying them back because eventually he got
indicted. I mean, not indicted. Eventually the U S attorney, eventually U S attorney, a guy by the
name of a Hanberg in Orlando, contacts Blaine, Blaine gets a lawyer, brings them in and says,
listen, you've got these investors, you owe them like half a million, a million dollars, whatever
it is. You have to, you know, I'm going to indict you. It's called pre-trial intervention.
I'm going to give you an opportunity to make good. If you can pay them back and fix it,
I won't indict you. Blaine convinces Hanberg, I can pay them back, but you have to let me keep
working in the same industry that allowed me to fleece them to begin with. Let me set up another
Ponzi scheme so I can pay them back. Right, right. Wow. I got you. And they let him. And he convinced
the U S attorney. That's how, I mean, that's, that's a testament to how slick he is. Fuck, dude.
So Hanberg says, okay, I'll let you go. Let me tell you, Hanberg's pretty slick. Hanberg,
do you know the pulse shooting? Remember the pulse shooting? The guy who goes to the night club
in Orlando kills all the gay, all the homosexuals and do that, right? So he kills them all, right?
Remember how they ended up arresting his, the, the pulse shooter's wife and she goes to trial?
Because the pulse shooter's dead. Okay. So who do we, well, he's dead. Fuck, we need to
put somebody on trial. Let's go ahead and let's grab his wife. So they indict her.
She goes to trial. She knows about it or something. They're saying she knows about it. She,
no way she couldn't have known. She had to know. She was in the car when he drove by the place.
It was staking it out. She did. And she's saying, I don't fucking know nothing. You're crazy.
So they put her on trial. He loses. So Hanberg's like, he's just off the chain. You're arresting
people that have nothing to fucking do with nothing and putting them on trial and you lose.
Wow. Yeah, they don't like that. He's, he's, yeah. So anyway, so what happens is
he comes in and Blaine ends up starting another Ponzi scheme, steals the money, pays some of those
victims back and then this happens and then he takes off to Australia. This is right after,
right, the whole thing. Right after DeLavin came in and cleared out the office because they found
out he stole 150 grand. Right. So 115, I think. He's on the next flight to Australia. Australia.
Jumps on the plane to Australia. Goes straight to Australia. He stays there a week. So he goes.
Why? Because they're calling the cops and blowing the whole scene up. Yeah. Yeah.
Donovan's going to call the U.S. Attorney. Yeah. He's calling. He's like, I'm calling the fucking
U.S. Attorney calling the feds. Fuck it nerds. I'm out. That is guys like, I'm done. He jumps on
a plane and fucking goes straight to Australia. The thing is he goes to Australia. He goes to
Australia. Then he goes to, I think it's Singapore. Oh, the Philippines. Yeah. Yeah. He flies into
the Philippines. He goes to Australia and stays there for like a week or 10 day, whatever. Then
he goes to the Philippines and from the Philippines he goes to Hong Kong. Just so happens that Julius
Bears Bank, there's a in the in the financial or the banking district, financial district of Hong
Kong. There's a Julius Bears Bank and the Bank of China. So he goes there. He's there for like
a couple of days, a few days, goes there, hangs out and then flies back to Australia.
So if you're in Australia, why would you go straight to where there's two
of the major banks that you've been sending money to? Get money.
Right. So he's pulling the money out. Huh? He's pulling the money out. You do that.
Re-securing the money, shifting it to a different account, doing something. Now here's the here's
the other thing, what you got to realize too, is this. If you're an American citizen and I open up
a bank account with Julius Bears Bank, don't they have to tell the US government that I have a bank
account there? That's a good question. They do. Technically they do. They have to, they don't have,
they don't have to tell you how much money is there, but we will tell you he, one of your
citizens has a bank here. Okay. So they're supposed to report that. Right. Right. Unless your wife
happens to be Filipino and she's not a US citizen and she can open up the bank account for you.
Now his wife has a propensity for fraud because she's, she's been indicted for fraud. Yeah.
She's actually used her mother's information to commit fraud in the United States, got a loan
for $850,000 that they couldn't pay. So the point is, is that the wife's, so the idea that he could
open up a bunch of bank accounts that he has control over using a non-citizen is, is very doable.
There's no reason for him to go to Hong Kong. I mean, as a young guy, I could see going,
wanting to go to Hong Kong for a few days, but, but, and I'm, and actually remember I told you,
I met a couple of guys in Coleman that knew Blaine, that had been locked up with Blaine. Yeah.
One of the things I say in the story is funny because I'm like, look, I think this is why he
went here for, because of the banks. It's the only thing that makes sense. But both the guys told me
the story. They said he went there. They said he had business there. Never really said what it was,
but they did say that he ended up, he told both of them that he ended up banging a couple of strippers
or, or, or call girls or something. He goes all night, like three, it's just like three fucking
chicks, brings them back to his place. He's like a really nice hotel and he's, he's banging them all
night long. So bad that he almost misses his flight in the morning. Like he passes out,
wakes up late, fucking races there, almost misses the flight. They both told me the same thing.
Those are the same two guys that, when I said, what's he like? And they both went, you know, he's,
he's a lot like you. And I was like, that's a fuck, bro. And they were like, no, I mean,
he's likable. He's funny. He's nice. You, you trust him though. And really looked at him and
like, you know, you would give him your so. Yeah, you give him the so. Just give him the so. So anyway,
so yeah, that's, that's what happens with, with that. What are we doing here? Okay. So
didn't you say that at one point Donovan or, or Damien called him and one of the hookers
answered the phone? He's like, Oh, was that your wife? Oh yeah, that was when he was in,
that's when he's when in Switzerland. Oh, okay. He, Donovan called and this hooker answers the
phone and he goes, is that Melanie? Cause that's his wife's name. Is that Melanie? He's like,
fuck no, it's just some hooker, bro. What's up? And Donovan, I remember Donovan said,
I knew right then something was up. Cause Donovan said, my dad told me one time
that a man that will cheat on his wife will have no problem at all fucking you over. Because if
you cheat on the woman you love, you got no problem fucking over some guy that means business
partner, right? A business partner. Donovan said to me, he goes, I just didn't think I would be that
guy. Yeah. You know, so cause he liked Blaine. Hate to see it. You know, he's like, he was super
likable. You just trusted him. Yeah. So what ends up happening is Blaine ends up, what? Nothing.
I just, I'm just laughing about how it relates to you, how it's just like how it reminded him of
you. It's just so funny because of the you. Like you want to like you. I want to trust you. You
could be fucking me so hard right now. I don't even know about it. I feel bad about that, that
everybody has a, that I'm a nice guy. I mean, I mean, genuinely, I'm trustworthy. Yeah. So
it's not with my paycheck. So, uh, listen, I'm, I'm good for all that, Mike. I'm working on it
right now. So the point is, is that he's now back in Australia. He's probably secured his, his funds.
He's good. Well, the government come or Donovan goes to the US attorney and says,
this whole thing's a fraud. It's a Ponzi scheme. This, I think that Blaine took off with a bunch
of money. Donovan doesn't know all of this yet, but he does know that some money has been diverted.
He doesn't know to what extent. Right. He also thinks that a portion of the money Blaine saying,
Blaine and Damien are saying all the money was left, was lost in PFG.
Donovan's looking at the documents and saying, I don't think so. We didn't have all the money in
PFG. There's still several million dollars left. Now, of course, everything's been closed up. The
government comes in and shuts everything off. Donovan doesn't have access to it. So he goes to
Hanberg and he explains, look, this guy Blaine, blah, blah. He's like, look, I know all about
Blaine. So what do you mean? He's like, and he explains about the first Ponzi scheme. It's like,
well, if you fucking knew about him, then why'd you let him keep doing it for? Yeah. Why'd you let
him? So Hanberg is the US attorney. US attorney in Orlando. So Hanberg gets upset with Donovan
and tells him and his lawyer to get out. We're done. So
then Donovan, the CFTC comes in, which is a governing body, they come in and they sue
for the trades and the loss of the money and the mishandling of all the funds and they sue Donovan
and they sue Damien. They sue Capital Blue. They sue Blaine. Of course, Blaine's in Australia.
So they go to the trial. Donovan never testifies. Damien testifies. During that testimony, Donovan
realized, finds out that his initial, this is when he finds out that basically his initial
investment was never traded. It's just spent here, spent here. So he's like, okay, the first of 50,
then the other 50, then the 100, then the 100, then the this, then the that, then my parents
all of it's going all over the place because they have the documents. So this is the first time
he realizes this is all bullshit and Damien's definitely in on it. But he doesn't, he said,
but I don't really say anything at that point. I still keep saying, yeah, yeah, it's Blaine's fault.
It's Blaine's fault. So he ends up going to Damien one day and they're going over all the stuff
because they think they're going to be indicted. So they're looking over all the documents and
Donovan says, look, you know, we need to get all this stuff correct. And Damien goes, what if we
find some documents that show that Blaine is solely responsible? And he goes, some emails.
Yeah, some emails. And he goes, do you have those? Why didn't you give them to the fucking,
to the lawyers? And he says, no, I don't, I haven't found them yet. He said, but what if we
find and he does air quotes? He goes, and he goes, what are you talking about? And he's like,
what do you mean, fine? You mean like make? He's like, yeah, what if we make it? He goes,
oh, no, no, no, no, I don't want anything to do with that. He gets up and leaves.
He calls his lawyer and he says, look, Damien's talking about faking emails. You got to call
the feds. So he calls Hamburg, they talk, they end up hooking up with, I think it's a,
might be a secret service agent, they're going to wire him up. Well, something happens and they
decide not to. Like they're like, we're not going to wire you up and have you get, get, get
information on Damien. So instead, Donovan takes it upon himself and he, he, I think he uses a
cell phone and he wires himself up and he goes back a couple of days later and he says, hey,
and he starts talking to him about, remember that time, the last time I was here and you,
you said, you talked about finding some emails and he's like, he's like,
yeah, yeah, yeah, that was stupid. That was stupid. He's like, well, what were you talking about? So
he gets him to basically start talking about, well, I'm saying like if we, like maybe made some
emails, he's like, but I'm not going to do that. I'm going to do that. He's like,
he's like, he starts talking to him about possibly taking a plea and helping the government. He's
like, okay, well, how can I help them? I don't know anything. So I can't help them with a,
with the case against Blaine because I don't know what Blaine was doing. So what am I going to say?
And so Damien's like, yeah, but, you know, if you just help them, he's like,
what am I going to say? Like make something up. He's like, yeah, if you say, it doesn't have to
be true. Keep in mind, I've got all the fucking, all the, the transcripts. Donovan had all this
transcribed. So it talk, and it's, this is Damien talking about lying for the benefit of the government.
He says it on there. All we've got to do is give them information or tell them what they want to
hear to help them with their case. And we can get, we can get our reduced sentence and we barely
have to do any time, that kind of thing. Donovan goes, I'm not going to do anything like that.
I didn't do anything wrong. So what ends up happening is, is eventually Damien takes a plea
and tells Donovan, sends him this email right here, which says, can't talk anymore. You've
been recording our conversations. That's a copy of the screenshot. How do you find out?
That's the whole thing. Hamburg told him, had to tell him. So they're using, they're using text
message screenshots. Yeah. Well, this is, well, this is the screenshot that when he sent him,
I can't talk to you anymore. Right. So Damien sent him this text saying, hey,
I can't talk to you. The only way to know that. Donovan said the only way for him to know that
is the US government. Now a couple of days after this, he takes a plea.
Damien. Damien takes a plea. So the government told him, this guy's recording you.
The government had to. They're the only ones that knew because Donovan's taking the recordings,
telling his lawyer, his lawyer's then sending him to the secret service and the US attorney,
US attorney then tells him, stop talking to this guy, he's recording you.
Holy. He's recording you saying you're going to manufacture emails. Yeah.
And that you're going to lie for us to help convict these guys.
Damn. So that's the email they sent him. I mean, I got fucking tons of this shit.
Oh yeah. So he's, Donovan's tried to explain the whole thing, right? Hamburg doesn't believe him.
I don't believe you. He thinks Donovan's in on it. Donovan's in on it. So Donovan says,
this guy will not believe me. And he's using this guy who's talking about manufacturing evidence
to try and convict me. He may indict me. I'm worried. I know what'll convince him.
I'm going to go to an FBI, an FBI expert that does polygraphs and I'm going to have him polygraph me.
So Donovan has himself polygraphed about whether he was a part of that fucking Ponzi scheme or not.
And this is an FBI, what do they call them?
Polyographers or something fucking? Yeah. I'm sure.
Is it really? That sounds good. Let's go with that. Let's do it.
Okay. And it says, I evaluated this examination as not indicative of deception.
There's not, he's not, he didn't deceive anybody. He's not lying.
He ain't lying. Right. This is your own. This is the same, same.
This is the same guy that the FBI uses. So Hamburg and Dites, Donovan.
And then Blaine at some point flies. So this is funny. This isn't funny. See,
this I have a bad sense of humor. It's not funny. Kind of is. It's probably funny.
It's, it's that Donovan said he's like on a fucking excavator or something, right?
And he gets a phone call from a guy who's a programmer in, in Canada.
Turns out Blaine flew to Canada. And when he, after he flew to Canada,
he started another company, another Ponzi scheme. He starts another Ponzi scheme.
And he fucking needs money. I don't think so. I think it's just what he did.
Listen, when I had a few million dollars and I was on the run and I've got,
let's go to Vegas and find some homeless people. And let's just keep doing it.
It's good. It's what I'm, it's what I do. I have to do something. I'm good at it. I enjoy it.
There's a rush in it. I'm sure there's, it's fun. It's not that difficult.
Once you start doing it, you keep up in the ante. It's, it's good. It's gotta get it while you can.
Yeah, it's good. So I'm going to keep doing it. Yeah. So what does Blaine do?
Even if he's got a few million dollars, fuck it. I'm going to go open another place
and get some more money. Right. Why wouldn't I? So you got to do something. Yeah. So
he opens up AGM capital, goes to Canada and he gets this guy. How much does he get this guy for?
Oh, is it over half a million bucks? Yeah. So the guy ends up getting a mortgage on his house,
pulling out over half a million dollars and gives it to Blaine. And so the guy called Donovan on
the phone, told him what happened, asked him, do you know who this guy is? I found this website.
I found your name. I found this and Donovan's like, yeah, the guy fucking ripped me off too.
He ripped a bunch of people off. He's probably going to get me fucking indicted.
And so Donovan's like, so there's probably more people in that Ponzi scheme. I met, I got,
one guy tracked me down. How many other guys are out there in Canada? So that's a third Ponzi scheme.
So Blaine is flying all over the country, right? One of the country of the world.
He's a big shot. He happens to come fly into Houston, right? He flies into Houston. He's
popping in, going to leave, just going to visit the wife. So
Hey, babe, I'm going to come do a pop in, see how you're doing. I've been in Australia for the past.
The Secret Service almost caught him like a month earlier. They caught him on, they almost caught him
on June 1st. He was supposed to fly in. They found out about it. And for some reason,
he just stopped. He didn't show up, changed his plans. Well, then he flies in like a month.
It's a month later on July 18th, 2010. He flies in and when he's going through customs,
his passport hits an alert and they come and they grab him. They arrest him and they bring him to
US Marshals Holdover. And they won't give him a bond. I don't know why. So, oh yeah, I meant,
I forgot about the part where he was in Perth, Australia. And they process service. The process
service come and he thinks he's being arrested. That's hilarious because I have the whole thing.
He's like tanning by the pool or something. He's tanning. He's getting on the elevator.
They come to him. Drinking a margarita. They ask what his name is and he's like, David. They're
like, okay, well, they, they're, they're looking at him like, well, the picture will look like
Blaine Davis in there. So he keeps lying, lying, lying. Eventually, he pushes the button for his
dad. His dad's voice is like, yeah, you know, what's up? He's like, dad, they got me. So it's
up. He's just being served papers. But then eventually he flies into Houston and he gets
grabbed by the Secret Service. So now he's arrested. So, so that's that. So where he's arrested,
where is Damien and Donovan at this point? Yeah, they've been indicted. And the government has
a star witness, which was the bookkeeper at Capital Blue. Oh yeah. Beth, Courtney.
So Beth says that she was being given numbers by Blaine and Damien was asking her to change the
numbers. And she says, Donovan knew about it. It's never really, Donovan says, it's just her
word saying that she says that. I did not know about it. She says, no, no, that he was a part of
a phone call one time where she spoke to him. He was in the room one time. He knew about it. Like,
never really said that he, she had a conversation, but he was definitely there. Yeah. Donovan said,
if I was in the room at all and they were talking about the gap, I wouldn't have necessarily known
what they were talking about because he thought the gap was an industry term, which he thought the
gap was the difference between what the liquidation cost or price was and what the actual contracts
or something were. He said, he thought it was an industry term. He said, I didn't really know enough
about it. Yeah. So he said, I kind of stayed out of it. He's like, so I don't know what she's talking
about. She says it's clearly he knew. So, you know. It's not good for Donovan. It's not good for
Donovan because basically without her. How did she say that? I don't know. I don't know. I do know
that she is related to Chris Romandetti. Chris Romandetti. To the attorney, the statesman. No, no.
The guy that dumped a million of his own money in and got a bunch of buddies to dump it. The guy
that raised the bulk of the 17 million that's now missing. Romandetti hates Donovan's guts.
He's furious. He still loves Blaine. He thinks Blaine's amazing. Doesn't it probably with Blaine
and Damian can't stand Donovan? I'm not sure because Donovan brought him in. I think Donovan
brought him in. I think Donovan probably thinks Donovan knows about it. I think he thinks Donovan
probably didn't know anything at this point. I don't think he Romandetti. I don't know what
Romandetti thinks, but I know he's related to Beth. So here's the other. Here's the other thing
what's interesting. So we've got a little Ponzi scheme, which is I probably lost half the viewers
so far. You got a little Ponzi scheme. I'm going to wrap it up here. We're on page.
This is a short podcast. This is we're like halfway. We're only 40 minutes in. We don't
have to do that. I barely ate today. I'm kind of hungry. We'll take you out to eat after this.
I had a small omelet. I had a 520 calorie omelet. You count your calories? It says it right.
Yeah. Really? Bro, I'm look at him. Why are you counting calories? I'm fucking amazing.
Are you keto? Are you keto? I don't know what keto is, bro. I don't know what all that is.
Danny's keto. Okay. Keep going. Okay. So I still want to say some stuff right now.
Anyway, no, the point is, listen, do you remember PFG? Yes, I remember. They were trading under
PFG and PFG and who is the guy who was the CEO of PFG again? Wussendorf. Russell Wussendorf.
Okay. So we've got all our money, a bunch of money, not all of it. We've got a bunch of money
in PFG and they do a margin call and it wipes us out. Yeah. Well, PFG was a Ponzi scheme.
What? It was a three or four hundred million dollar Ponzi scheme is one of the largest Ponzi
schemes for it. One of the largest, it was the largest forex Ponzi scheme ever. Got to be here
for that much money. Wow. So they didn't trade a fucking thing. Russell Wussendorf didn't trade
a thing. He just, they know this? No. No. Blaine is doing side deals with them. The truth is,
he's thinking he's convincing like a legitimate guy to help fucking siphon money and do that.
No, he's not. This guy's a crook. So it is like the Russian dolls. So he got played too, just like
he's playing everybody else. Do you like that comparison? I love that comparison. It's the
little Ponzi scheme and the bigger Ponzi scheme and then the huge Ponzi scheme on top of it. So
this is three Ponzi schemes, one on top of the other. Just living in the bowels of the bigger
Ponzi. Nice bowels, right? In prison, no thesaurus came up with bowels. Okay. So,
Sasha, I did have a thesaurus. That's completely untrue. I did have a thesaurus,
but I didn't have spell check or anything. So listen. Okay. So Wussendorf, here's the problem
with Wussendorf. Wussendorf has been running a Ponzi, how do you run like a fucking half a
billion dollar Ponzi scheme for? Is it 20 years he's been doing it? It's a little bit sharper than
Blaine. A little sharper than Blaine. Here's how he does it. He's just doing the same thing,
just on a much bigger scale. Yeah. Except he's ripping off other businesses. Other businesses.
He's ripping off Ponzi schemes, not just, you know, friends with money. Yeah, he's ripping off
people like, like capital blue. Right. He's like a maid off. Right. So exactly. So what happens is
he's- And where, where, I'm sorry, but where was, where was PFG located? Where was they,
where were they based out of? Chicago. Chicago. Right. I feel like so many Ponzi schemes were
in Florida. Florida is filled with a lot of criminals. It really is. A lot. I've told him
about a ton of like, like the- Financial criminals. Yeah. Remember the Vitaly story,
Atonement? Yeah. Yeah. Where he's raising all the money. He said, listen, he goes, you go to
Palm Beach area. And he said, man, he said, it's fucking inundated. He said, everybody you meet
is a fucking, is a scam artist. So many stories I've heard of Ponzi schemes getting busted during
the financial crisis in 2008. Yeah. And how long did they run? Florida. Like they're running forever.
So you're running five years. You're like, yeah, everything's great. And then the economy
takes a huge correction and you go, and it just destroys your whole fucking thing. You could
have gone forever. How long? Yeah. Right. What if they're like made off? It had made off could have
gone forever. He'd gone for like fucking 15 or 20 years. I know guys that have gone fucking
10, 15 years on Ponzi schemes. And that one correction, they don't fucking account for that.
And then people, everybody says, oh, I'm scared. Give me my money back. And they're like, oh,
fuck. How about that money? My bad. So, all right. So Woosendorf, here's-
Likeable. Here's. Oops. I feel bad. So listen. Here's what Woosendorf does. He's all the money
he's trading is through US Bank. So all the, all his accounts are US Bank accounts. They're
handling everything, which is nothing, by the way. He's not trading anything. So he's just stealing
the money. He's blown 200 million here. He's lost just tons of money. Over 200 million was gone,
including capital blue, money, six million. I mean, this guy, nearly half a billion dollars
had flowed through the FG. Gone. So here's the problem. He's going to keep going. He could just
keep going and going. The problem is, is that the CFTC changes their reporting status. He had
reported to PFG all the paperwork that comes into the bank that has to be filled out by bank
officials was all going to a PO box he had opened in the name of US Bank. So the CFTC is mailing
these reports to his, to his PO box. He's filling them out and sending them back. But now they're
going to do it electronically, directly to the bank. So they're not going to be fooled by the PO
box. So he realizes it's over. In like a couple of days, they're going to report and they're going
to know that I'm supposed to have $300 million in the bank and I've actually only got six million.
It's over. I'm done. So he does what any good Ponzi scheme person should do. He gets a car and
he gets a hose and he tries to commit suicide. No, no, no, should do, should do. Oh, he gets the hose
and he puts it in and he does the thing and he puts it in the pipe and he duct tapes it up and he
cuts a little slit. You know, the only part that bothers me about his, his, his suicide attempt
is that he's driving a, he's driving like a Chevy Cavalier or something. I mean, nobody deserves
to die in a Chevy Cavalier. I mean, you've got $6 million. You couldn't go buy a fucking Mercedes.
Yeah, in the Bentley. A Bentley. Maybe it had some sort of sentimental value to him.
It's just ridiculous. Yeah, that's true. That maybe it was, maybe it was his first car or something.
Yeah. I'm still going to give a shit.
Hell no. If I'm doing that, it's going to be in something decent. So he takes a handful of pills,
he drinks down some liquor, he writes a letter explaining that he hasn't made any trades,
all the money's gone, everything, leaves it on the front thing, starts the car,
breathes it in. That's not a big city way to die.
Yeah. He's fucking, he's hardcore, bro. He's going out and it would have worked out perfectly.
I wouldn't call that hardcore. Well, he's not taking a gun in his, in his head.
I wrote one story about a guy that took a gun and stuck it in his head and pulled the trigger
and it didn't kill him. Well, it just fucked him up. Then he blew through his fucking eye cavities.
And so now he's blind, laying there on the ground. He's trying to find the gun.
Now he's got to find the fucking gun and shoot himself again. He killed himself the second time.
Back to Woosendorf. Woosendorf would have killed himself, except one of his employees really
enjoyed his job and he showed up about an hour early and found his boss in the back parking lot
getting all gassed up. Yeah. He passed out and he goes and he opens the door and calls and says,
hey, you might want to come get that. Some shit's going on. The company's a little fucked up and
I think maybe more fucked up than I think. Dude ties hell. The owner of the company's
in a fucking cavalier. So, so he killed his buzz. Yep. So he wakes up in the hospital.
Yeah. They've got his worst nightmare. Woosendorf. That's a worst case scenario.
What did they give Woosendorf? I think they gave him like wakes up and wakes up in the hospital,
handcuffed to the bed. Yeah. Yeah, they gave him a chunk of time. And you just snitched yourself
out in the letter on top of it. Oh, yeah. So Woosendorf's already like 70, by the way, they gave him
Oh, he'd been running a Ponzi scheme for 20 years. PFC was a 20 year Ponzi scheme. Not too bad.
It was 376 million dollars. Not too late for you kids. 1300 investors. He'd blown through 115 million.
Shit, what did they end up giving him? Damn it. They gave him like a chunk of time.
Wasn't doable for a guy who was like 65 or 70. Anyway, so he's dying in jail. So what else happens?
Blaine's in prison. Oh yeah, the trial. Donovan goes to goes to trial. I'd like to point out that
you've been no help at all. What was the fucking guy that did the comment? I'm doing my job. I'm
shutting up. I read a few comments. They want a whole podcast episode about your hair. Oh, yeah,
yeah, yeah. Yeah, they do. They want a whole interview on the hair graphs. Okay, I need one more.
I need one more hair graph. I think I need one more. You fooled me with that one. I can usually
tell when people got fucked up hair implants, but yours I couldn't honestly could not tell.
I'm starting to get a little thin. I'm not an expert in hair graphs, but I mean, I need some work
done. I need one more. I need one more. I had three surgeries. I had one surgery. I mean,
I had two surgeries. I needed one more surgery and it would be 100% coverage. So it still gets thin.
It's thin. When's the last time you got surgery? I need one. Oh, it was like six months, six,
eight months before I got grabbed. That motherfucker, that should have held up strong.
I don't take it. I don't take them. You're supposed to take medication.
So your hair stops falling out. Motherfucker did a damn good job. Yeah,
you want to shout them out? I don't know what I'm saying. I'll give him my sauce for a hair graph.
I actually got in an argument with the with the surgeon before he did it. Oh my god.
About what? Okay, because a male hairline, it goes to a point, right? It recedes into like a
corner, a V, right? And I said, listen, I want you to round it at the edge. It's just round it
slightly. And he goes, well, that's not how a hairline is. And I went, yeah, I know, I understand,
but I see these guys that have it and it doesn't look right. He's like, yeah, but that's naturally
how it goes. I go, yeah, I know, but it, I think I feel like it looks better if you round it slightly.
I go, it's just, we're talking about a little tiny thing. He's like, that's not really how it's
supposed to go. I said, well, I understand how it's not supposed to go. I said, but I'm supposed
to be bald right now too. I said, right. I said, so just can you do it? And he goes,
I mean, if you want it to not look natural and I went, yeah, I want it to not look natural.
So can you do it? So he's like, well, I don't, so we start, my girlfriend was there at the time
and she was like, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, she's like, this guy's about to fucking cut on your head
and shit. This guy's going to have a knife. And I'm like, did he, did you have to go unconscious
No, they give you a volume and you basically fall asleep. So you put headphones in. Yeah,
they got like three girls who were cutting up the little shit. Oh, it's a whole fucking thing.
And so you basically fall asleep and then they just, they do it for like four hours.
Like, where does the hair come from cut from the back of your head? Oh, they take the hair out of
there and put it up front. Yeah, they take a swath of hair like, like it looks like a popsicle
stick. So they actually cut you, pull it off. Oh, it keeps growing. Oh, fuck that.
One volume ain't going to do it for me for all that. Oh, no, I'm numb. You're all
numb. You can't feel nothing. Your face is numb, the nose is numb. Oh, my God.
Oh, fuck it. Listen, listen, it was painful. It was painful. I mean,
you know, yeah, bad, not as painful as being bald. Do you want to go in for a third touch-up?
Fuck yeah. How much does that shit cost? It was seven grand each surgery.
They say plastic surgery. That's 14,000. That's way out of my place.
But it's okay because it was Bank of America's money.
It was really some of the best money I've seen, really. Money well spent.
That, the nose job, the fucking, listen, I mean, I'm fucking, you know.
Is it true that plastic surgery is like once you pop, you can't stop, you just get addicted to
keep going back? Oh, I would listen. I'd love to go back. Like tattoos, yeah.
If you give me 50 grand right now, 15 or 20 of it's going into plastic surgery.
What are you doing? What's the first thing you do?
I need some touch-ups. I mean, I still need touch-ups.
I want, I want, I want fucking the love handles done. I don't really have them,
but they're kind of there. They're kind of not there. I mean, I, you need some, you know.
This is my opportunity to interject. Okay. I want everyone watching this to go to patreon.com
slash inside true crime. Matt is doing audio books and all kinds of stuff. You can go pay him
and support his, his livelihood here to write these stories. So this guy can go get the fucking
ab reduction and get some more hair work done. And what else do you need done?
You know, I would probably like to go in again and do like another, would they call it the neck
tuck? Yeah, I feel like it's, I just, yeah, I'm feeling the whole, I don't, I'm not, it's not good.
Danny needs bunion surgery. Yeah. Bunion surgery. I got, I got like,
you ever seen LeBron James's feet? You know, I actually have a photo of his feet. No, I never
see him. I got his feet. I don't know. Okay. All right. Patreon.com slash. We're way off topic.
Yeah, bro. This, you know what I need. I need all these guys are fucking like, you got to do a
podcast. You got to do a pot. Bro, I need some subscribers. Yeah, you need to do a fucking
subscribe. I got 6,500, maybe I got 6,500 subscribers. I need like fucking 50,000 subscribers
for it to be worth it. Otherwise I'm just gonna ask for nothing. 50,000. Let's get Matt to 50,000
subscribers. Can we do it? Sounds like a lot, but yeah. Yeah, that's what's wrong with, that's
reasonable. We can do it. Tell a friend. Let's do it. Just tell a friend. Just share it with a friend,
send an email, send a text, whatever you got to do. We're getting Donovan right now. Listen, if I,
listen, you, these Ponzi guys, like I remember, listen, I remember us talking to Vitaly one
time and I was like, I don't understand. You did this in your own fucking name. He's like, yeah,
yeah. Well, you know, he's like, cause when it, when it falls apart, when this happens, it happens.
He goes, you know, the problem is, you see, when, if it, if it goes wrong, he is, I mean,
he was, look, nine out of 10 of these things go wrong. You invest a bunch of money into this
business and it goes under nine out of 10 go business. He goes, so you don't really realize
you got taken. And I went, yeah, but he goes, and these are legitimate businesses. They don't have
much of a chance, but you don't know that as an investor. He goes, and I don't know that. Maybe
it will work. I don't know. I go, yeah, but if you're going to do that, why wouldn't you just
set the company up, set it up so it really looks like it's going to take off, use fabricate the
entire thing and then just go in as using a false identity. I said, you set up the bank accounts
and false identities. You don't put any of the money into the fucking thing and you take the
whole five or 10 million dollars and you disappear. You don't take a million and you might end up
in prison. You take fucking 10 million and when they come looking, they're looking for somebody
else. That's what you do. And he's like, fuck, bro. He said, that's, how would you get the bank
account? So we start out like, but don't take my word for it. I'm in here for fucking 26 years.
So, but yeah, a lot of these guys, they get jammed up by doing a little something fucked up
and they're like, yeah, that's okay. It's just a little bit. It won't, look, there's no,
there's no difference between a little fucked up and straight fraud. So I'm not taking a hundred
thousand. It's got a chance of going good or something. Maybe they think they, yeah, they think
I'll get away with it. Maybe it'll work out or maybe hope's not a strategy. So anyway, all right,
so probably didn't look good. I think, I think the last time we left off was Blaine got arrested
and Donovan and Dom and Donovan and Damien. Damien is going to trial. He gets indicted,
he's going to trial. Blaine's going to testify. Damien's going to testify. So he's got, these
two guys are now. Did they say Donovan knows? They're saying Donovan knew. Donovan absolutely
knew. Mother fucker. They both know that to get my sentence reduced,
if I help the government and they get a conviction, I don't get as much time. If I was going to get
10 years, I might get three or four years. So they throw him right under the bus. Fuck.
And the mother fuckers. And the government is, is ready to do this. Now at this point,
Hanberg has declined to prosecute. He says, I'm not going to prosecute him.
Prosecute to Donovan? I'm not going to prosecute the Capitol Blue at all.
Anybody involved? I'm not going to indict him. Well, I'm going to get to that. I'm
glad you asked that because I actually have a pretty good idea of why. So he says,
he says, I'm not going to. But what happens is the district, DC comes in, the DC attorneys
come in and they take over the case. So the US attorney's office in the District of Columbia
comes in and they take over the case and they decide to prosecute. So that attorney come,
that US attorneys, they come in, they indict everybody and they're going to trial.
So now Donovan's going to trial. The judge is, oh, did I have to tell you this? This is one of
my favorite parts. When the whole company gets liquidated, like they come in, you know, they give
it to a receiver. You know what a receiver is? It's a guy that comes in, he looks through all the
documents, he tells you how much the company's worth. Then he breaks it apart and he sells the
company and he gives the money over to the government. Okay. Whatever money he could scrounge
out of it left, he gives it to the government. Exactly. Because of course, there's very little
money. And in this case in particular, the guy is the judge, which is a judge by the name of Antoon,
ends up handing it over to this receiver and the receiver, the receiver ends up stealing
the last $3.5 million of capital. The receiver does? The receiver steals the money,
sells off everything, destroys the evidence. So the FBI comes in a few months after the
receiver takes over everything and the FBI comes in, they raid the receiver and they arrest him.
He turns out, well, this dude just decides for the last few years, he's going to pick this case
to steal the money. I don't know. He's been doing it for the last five or 10 years. He stole millions
of millions. So I forget what they, 10 or 20 million, I have the amount is in here. He ends up
getting like, he ends up getting 10 years. So one of the things that happened was, one of the things
that happened was, something fishy about Hamburg too. You know, I'm glad you did that. I can feel it.
You're going to, they're going to like something weird going on with that guy. So what happens is,
what happens is they hand off, so when the receiver gets all the stuff, one of the things he
gets is the servers, which had a server, which has all of the hard drives in it, right? All the
information and shit. He gets the hard drives. He destroys them. So they're destroyed. So remember
the emails that Damien had talked about fabricating. Yeah. How do you authenticate emails? Check them
on the server. The servers, the hard drives, they're gone. They're destroyed. So at this point,
the government indicts everybody and they go to trial. Donovan, of course, says,
I'm not pleading guilty. Yeah. I haven't done a fucking thing wrong. And Damien, he says,
I got recordings and everything else that says that Damien was talking about fabricating emails.
So of course, I want to authenticate those. Where's all the documents? The government says,
we don't have any documents. They were all part of the servers and the servers have been destroyed.
And so he turns around and says, okay, well, he gives them his laptop. Here's my laptop. You
can try and find them on that. Okay, we'll take your laptop. Then he says, what about Damien's
computers? Damien had computers. Damien sold them his computers on eBay. So they can't find those.
I think they track them down eventually. And then they say, there's nothing on them. No,
they were given back to the receiver tracked them down or something. They're gone.
So Donovan goes to trial. So none of those voice recordings are there anymore?
None of the voice. He has the voice recording, but he can't present the voice recordings. His
lawyer says, no, it's illegal for you to record people. It makes you look bad. No, we don't need
it anyway. His lawyer presents a defense that is absolutely ridiculous. His lawyer presents a defense
that says all of your investors signed documents that said that they were aware that they could lose
all of their investment. Therefore, you're not guilty. Because they lost their money. Because
they lost their money and they signed a document saying that they knew that was a risk. Right.
Listen, it's a legal argument that is meritless. And there's nothing that supports it. There's no
case law that helps. It is absurd. And I think it costs Donovan half a million dollars for his
defense, something along those lines, for the most fucking horrible defense possible. And the
lawyer ever just botched it one fucking thing after another. He botches. Wow. So do you think
that he should have let him present that? What the recording? Yeah, of course. Yeah, I'll take
the hit. Charge me. What are you going to charge me with? Are you illegally recorded something? Okay,
great. So charge me with that. I'll take the six months probation. So I can present Damian talking
about fabricating females. Right. But his lawyer, oh, no, it looks bad. Plus the government might
not, the judge will probably won't allow it because it's illegal. We can't use it, whatever.
But Donovan's convinced that he hasn't done anything wrong. It's going to be fine.
We're going to authenticate. Then he finds out that the servers are gone.
Then they go to, he goes to the government and they ask for the, did you, is there anything,
can you find the computers? You can't find them. They go, okay, he's okay. What about my laptop?
We, you never gave us a laptop. You don't know about any laptop. We don't know about. Wow. We
don't know where any servers are. We don't know shit. We don't know nothing. Everything was gone.
The, the, the, the receiver destroyed everything. He must have been with him. So there's just,
there's just covering and covering and covering. So he ends up going to trial and at trial,
Damian gets on the stand and Damian starts saying, yes, the emails prove this and the emails prove
that. And Donovan saying, I've never seen this email. I've never seen this email. I don't know
what this email is. And in the, in the, um, oh yeah, yeah, this is the other thing too. So the new
judge is, is called, uh, the new judge is, um, is, uh, Carlos Mendoza. So Carlos Mendoza is a new
judge. This is his very first criminal trial. He's a state judge who just become a federal judge.
So he sentences Blaine, Blaine goes to trial, by the way. Remember his first Ponzi scheme?
Yeah. Yeah. Well, they've now indicted him on the first one. They indicted him in Orlando or they
indicted him. Um, why he didn't pay the money back or? Well, because he committed another crime.
Another. So your, our deal's off. Yeah. Okay. So they indicted him. He goes to trial because
he's Blaine. He's cocky. Yeah. I can convince these people I didn't do anything. He gets on the
stand and he convinced it. He tells them that, yes, I did get these guys money. I gave it all to
this guy who's a European investor I was working with, gave him the money and he took off with it.
It's not my fault. Who? Woosian? No, no, no, no. Just nobody. Oh, he's just making some guy out.
The matter of fact, they mock him. The U S attorney mocks him during the deliberations and they say
you, they keep calling the guy the international man of mystery. Blaine can't come up with one bank
statement, email, fucking correct name, address, nothing. It's just some random guy that you
handed over and he tells him like he handed him over cash. Yeah. Cash money. So guys are giving
you checks, you're cashing it and then they go and they show his bank accounts. Money's going
into your bank account and paying your bills. So how did you, I mean, you really, you're looking at
the fucking jury saying this. It's ridiculous. 10,000 went in. I paid $1,100 for my Mercedes.
I paid 2,000 for my rent. I paid 1,000 to my fucking bank account. So I got this, I got this,
so that's it. So all of that money is just gone and then he says, no, no, I cashed it and gave
the guy cash and he took off with the money. Found guilty, obviously. Yeah. So he's found guilty.
So when Mendoza, before Donovan has tried, when Mendoza sentences Blaine, he says,
obviously, you know, this is a scam, obviously, but, and then you did this scam and you went
and opened it up, even bigger scam and you and your co-defendants or the other owners of capital blue
committed fraud when you did this. Now, think about it. I'm going to trial. You're sentencing
one of my co-defendants and you say on this, you say specifically, I'm guilty. Already. Right.
Already. Someone else's trial. Right. So I'm saying that, Jane, obviously, you're guilty,
you and your co-defendant, he's going to trial. How do you know I'm guilty? He may be pleading
guilty, but I are lost at trial and pleading Blaine, of course, pleads guilty. After he loses,
he then comes in and pleads guilty. He is like 12 years total. So anybody agrees to testify.
He's been convinced that if you just testify, we'll reduce your sentence. So what ends up
happening is Donovan goes to trial. They even talk about it in here. I matter of fact, this is
the one right here where they talk about, first of all, they start off the trial saying Donovan
was the original investor and he was brought in as an investor and he was duped into investing
in the thing. And initially he didn't know anything. Then all the emails that show that
eventually he did know what was going on, they actually say here, they talk about this piece
right here, talks about where they say some of the emails couldn't be authenticated.
And you actually have, you actually did come up with one computer, but you can't figure out why
they're not authenticated off that computer. They're like, yeah, we haven't been able to figure that
out yet, but it's okay. We know they're true because Damien said those are the emails he sent.
That should have never been allowed to, you should have never allowed that. You can't
tell me that I wrote the emails and I get to authenticate them. So if I fabricate something,
I also get to authenticate that it's true. And we know we've got evidence showing that you,
I had intended to fabricate it. Right. So that's just ridiculous. Okay, so.
Do they give him a part of the company so that he takes the fall in the end? Of course, that's
part of, that's gotta be part of Blaine's whole thing. That's part of it from the beginning, right?
Yeah. Things that he was that clever. I think that, I think that, I think that he was clever
enough to realize when the whole thing was going down. One, they were clever enough to come in
and say, we can clip this dude for another fucking 600,000. Plus, get him money and he'll take some
of the fall. Right. All of the fucking fall. Plus, right. So plus he'll bring us in more money.
And when it all comes down, he's the face of the company. He's the guy driving the Lamborghinis.
He's the guy bringing in all the money. Looking flashy. Blaine never talks. They played him like
a fiddle. Blaine doesn't talk to any investors. God damn. He's not. Roman Detty and Donovan brought
in all the money. And you can say, okay, well Roman Detty, Roman Detty probably didn't know
anything, right? Roman Detty's a good guy. You know, he's probably not a bad guy. He probably got
all his friends to bring in money. First of all, you're making 2% on all of your buddies.
Yeah, right. Your buddy puts a million dollars. So why wouldn't you bring all your friends in?
Right, right. And I'm making 2%. You know, Dan, well, he don't tell anybody he's making 2%.
Hell no. He doesn't tell anybody. I know that because on the stand.
You make a good return. You don't got to tell him that.
On the stand, when he testifies, he's saying, I didn't have any deal.
That 2%. Man, we got fucking tax messages where his wife is texting Damien saying,
you owe us $100,000 for all the people. You're supposed to pay us back this money for the
commissions. Right. So I mean, he's just a line sack of shit. Plus, of course,
by the way, Roman Detty was also indicted for running a boiler room and was being investigated
while this was going on. So they let him testify knowing he's running a boiler room and he's being
investigated by the FBI. And they put him on the stand and let him fucking talk shit about
Donovan. I am completely broke. He stole all my money. Come on, man. Stop it.
Okay. So remember that. So they can't authenticate the emails. The servers are gone.
The government, the government knows that the knows the servers are gone.
Knows that the knows that the what the fuck's it got the receivers destroyed them all.
So in the end, when they talk, his lawyers brought up the fact that these things are gone,
right? Several times when they during closing arguments, they actually say the U.S. attorney
actually comes in and says, listen, there's no proof that he put, he starts off by saying
Donovan was the original, the U.S. government comes in eventually and saying Donovan was the
original investor and started as an investor. In the end, when they do their closing arguments,
they say he didn't put any money in. There's not any proof that he ever put a diamond to this.
They also say, and there's no proof that anybody took any servers or anything. The only person that
we believe took a surf took the servers and destroy them is Donovan. And they say all that
in the end. So they've completely shifted even throughout the trial completely against against
him. And this is my Roman daddy thing where Roman daddy actually gets on the stand and says that
talks about how Donovan, how he's lost all of his money and that Donovan completely duped him.
And Donovan has just destroyed his life while he's running his boiler room, a pump and dump
scheme boiler room. And he's making millions, by the way, and ripping people off left and right.
So while that's happening, that's what Roman daddy's doing. So Roman daddy's word,
you know, I guess maybe it's gone. Donovan is just surrounded by fucking criminals.
Amazing. They're just feeding off him. This is Roman daddy's indictment, by the way.
Here's some of the money that they were bringing in. 5,000, 5,000, or here's 174,000, 40,000, 20,000,
35,000. At that point, I just kind of was like, okay, well, clearly there's some money there.
And it's a pump and dump scheme. Nice, right? So Donovan goes to trial.
Damien, they put him on the stand. The jury for some fucking reason believes him.
Yeah. And it's funny because Mendoza at the very end actually says when he's about to
just find him guilty, he actually says, he goes, I mean, for some reason, he goes,
the jury believed at least some of what he said. I mean, this is what he's saying about
the star witness. This guy's a liar. He's been caught multiple times, but apparently the jury
believed him. This is what Mendoza said. Mendoza kind of botched the whole thing. He's led a bunch
of information in. He should have been a mistrial. There's a whole bunch of issues that have happened
during the trial. It's his first trial. He's not great at it yet. Federal rules are different
than state rules, whatever. So he finds Donovan guilty. Donovan, by the way, had been told by his
lawyer the entire time. The most he could get was three or four years. So Donovan got 17 years.
Including out of the 17 million, $2 million is his own money. So they sentenced him
on $2 million of his own money. Now, as soon as it's done, the government moves to seize all of
Donovan's assets. The Dirt Company? The Dirt Company. Remember, the Dirt Company is technically
owned by his family. So they go in to get all the cars, the boats. They're trying to get everything.
They're trying. They're like, this is a. Those fuckers. So the family puts up a fight and they
actually, eventually the government loses and they say, no, you can't take all of our shit,
because it's our son. It's our son. He doesn't own everything. He's part of the company. He's
part of our family. He's part of this, but it's a family. Right. Right. He don't own it. Right.
So they don't end up getting all that stuff. Good. Yeah. Well, he does own one company,
but think about it. He is the company. It's like if you own a painting company, it's like me and
my five guys. Well, the moment I'm gone, my five guys are gone. Where's the company? Right. So as
that, but as far as they were trying to seize the assets, the land, the houses, the cars, the
airplanes, everything now. So. So Damien got off. No, Damien ends up getting, I forget what he
gets, three or four years. I mean, I positive I have it. So you said the jury, they believed,
they believed him though. They believe them. They believe Damien. I mean, they believe him,
but he was, he still got a guilty verdict. Well, yeah. Cause he pled guilty. Oh, he pled guilty.
So when he goes to get sentenced, he gets what's called a five K one, which is, yeah,
you're supposed to get seven or eight years, whatever it is, but because you call,
they're gonna try to get 10 years, but you cooperate. So we're going to give you five
years instead of 10. Right. Cause you cooperate. So Damien ends up getting,
he's in front of Carlos, man. Those, uh, with Donovan got 17 years. What did Blaine get?
Oh wait, uh, Damien got 70 months. So Damien gets 70 months. Here's what's beautiful. You're
in love with this. Dan, Donovan's been found guilty. He's sentenced. He's now in prison
or not prison. He's in the, uh, the, he's in the marshals, the holdover,
which is at the local jail. Damien, when he gets sentenced, they remand him right there.
So he thinks he's going to be able to turn himself in. Oh yeah. He was told,
he was told he was going to be able to turn himself in. They say, no, remand.
What does that mean? Remand, right? We'll take you right there from the courtroom.
Oh yeah. So they take him right then. Boom. So you stick him in the fucking van to start driving
him. Damn. Donovan won 17 years. Damien 70 months. They end up going to the same holding facility.
Oh shit. They're in two different pods. Yeah. But here's the thing. Damien on his way
to the, to the, um, prison or to the, to the holding facility,
he's bitching and moaning and crying. And, and there's an inmate that's in there with him called,
was his name, uh, Tiago, right? Tiago just fucking got a bunch of time. So they're all hand cuffed
up and driving. There is, they're miserable. They're moving and he's pitching and moaning.
And he's like, I can't believe they gave me 70 months. He's like, I testified. He's never been
in prison. So he doesn't know you're not, you don't start talking about testifying.
He's some IT guy. Yeah. He's an IT nerd. So he's like, I testified for the government.
I said all kinds of shit. I told him, I said exactly what they told me to say. I lied about
Donovan. I, I, I, I got him a conviction and they said they were going to let me,
they were going to give me a lot less time and they were going to let me self surrender and
they fucking gave me 70 months and then they, they remanded me. This is bullshit. And Tiago
actually says it's probably not a good idea that you run around saying that you testified against
it. Oh shit. Tiago is like a career criminal. He's going to the pen. So he was okay. So he gets
dropped off. They don't end up in the same cell, but they can see each other. Oh shit. They end
up different pods. Yeah. Yeah. So you can, sometimes a lot of times you can see into the other pod
that's got 50 guys or 75 guys and you can see that guys. And so Donovan's like, mother fucker.
So they can see each other. Well, while he's in that pod, he could, Damian also complains to his
celly. I fucking testified against this guy. Oh my God. I lied about him. I did everything the
government asked me to do. Does Damian know he's over there? He knows he's in the same
whole facility. Oh, Donovan can see. They can see each other. They can see each other. They both know.
Right. Okay. So it's not until, so he ends up saying this to like four guys. It's not until
later that Donovan finds out, right? So Donovan ends up, one of the guys ends up getting transferred,
moved into like Donovan's unit, or they end up in the yard at the same time. And he tells Donovan,
this fucking guy's saying that he testified against you. He's saying he lied. He did this.
He said he lied on the stand. He's like, fuck. Now, and I know what you're thinking. You're
thinking, Matt, come on. How do you know that? So here's the affidavit. I don't know. Because you
know me. We know you. I'm all about the fucking document. So here's the fucking backup. Here's
the affidavit from Calapri. I don't know how to say it. I mean, Matthew Calapri. Matthew Calapri.
He says, you can take a look. This is the one from Ron Grokoff. Ronald Grokoff. Same thing.
I did everything the government wanted me to say. Even stuff that wasn't true, just to get a conviction
on Don. They told me I would get it to self-report and lots less time. You fucking piece of shit.
Okay. So Don Easter affidavit. I don't have one from Tiago. We don't have one from Tiago
in this font because Donovan didn't meet Tiago. He doesn't know Tiago. He never saw him. They
were never in the same pod. They were never even close to each other. So how do you know about
him? I'm glad you asked. Thank you. So what happens is- He's more than a 200-pound hat rack.
When Donovan gets to the prison and he sees some of these guys, he's like, hey, you're so-and-so.
He's like, yeah, what happened? This and that. So Donovan files paperwork with the court saying,
I want a new trial. This motherfucker admitted that he lied on the stand. I got affidavits.
So this guy named Frank. I don't know. It's not Amadeo. It's not Frank. It's another Frank.
Frank, like, I forget his fucking name. This other guy, Frank, types up the affidavits and gets
everybody to sign them. Okay. So Donovan files- Prisoners? Yeah, prisoners. So they type it up,
get these three guys that were also locked up with Donovan. Right. And they all sign them.
Yes, I met Damien. Yes, this is what he says. The government-
Why would they do shit like this? Yeah, why would they do that?
What? That's a good question. Why would they-
Why would they just type this shit up in there and fucking help this guy?
Because they felt like it was wrong. This guy- first of all, everybody hates a snitch.
Yeah, okay. So they- and two, they're like, you shouldn't be here. So it's like, look, if I'm
locked up- So they're finding out Donovan's innocent. Yeah, they're like, you're not-
you shouldn't be. So Donovan's sitting there like, I didn't fucking do it. He tells, look,
I put some money in. These motherfuckers stuck it with me. I went to trial. I fucked up. I didn't
realize that 50% of innocent people still went to prison. They saw him as like the victim of
this little skinny, nerdy rat. Right, right. So I used to always say, I'm- I'm lucky. I'm 100%
guilty. Yeah. It would be torment to be in prison and have not done anything and be surrounded.
I can't bitch and moan that I'm surrounded by these fucking dirtbags because I'm a dirtbag.
Yeah, right. But if I was a clean cut guy who'd done nothing wrong, I'd be-
And you invested your money. I lost all my money, a bunch of my fucking
family's money, and I got 17 years. Yeah, all your friends and family.
Right. And so people- so inmates, I understand you, they're all scumbags, but you know what,
the fact is, is that they're kind of like, okay, yeah, but I should be here and he shouldn't,
and that's wrong. Yeah. So what do they do? Yeah, I'll sign an affidavit. Of course, Donovan's like,
oh, you signed an affidavit. Sure, okay. So he signs an affidavit. I'll sign it. Fuck it.
So the government then looks into it because he filed with- now he wants a new trial and they're
like, fuck, let's look into this fucking guy saying this shit. So they send in some secret
service and IRS agents and they start checking it out and they're trying to debunk what he's
saying. They're trying to say, look, it's not true. They go to these guys and say, look,
did you say this? Did you say this? And they're like, yeah, that's what I said.
That's what the guy said. That's my affidavit. I signed that. That's what he said.
Were you testified to that? Absolutely. And they're like, fuck. So they're trying to figure out,
how do we really make this thing go away? Oh, he was in- he came over in the van with somebody.
Let's talk to that guy. So they go, they track Tiago down. He's in the pen. He's in the pen at
Coleman. Yeah. I think the bulk of the guys- What are they expecting him to say? Well,
they're thinking at least he's gonna- he'll either say nothing or he'll- who knows. We just
were looking for somebody that will say what- that say it's bullshit. Yeah. They're reaching for
something. Right. So they go to Tiago and they said, do you remember this guy? He's like,
named Damien. No. They show him a picture and he goes, oh, yeah. I remember that guy. I called
him Little Dredds because he had like little, little dready hair and yeah, yeah, I remember that
guy. Do you remember him saying anything? Yeah. I remember he was saying that he had testified.
And I told him he shouldn't be telling people. Yeah. Yeah. Especially because he said he lied
about his code offense. Oh. Really pissed off. Right. That's not what they want to hear.
Fuck. So the government found the fourth witness. Yeah. So here's- here's the interview with Tiago.
This is the interview of- the government comes and then they interview everybody. They all say
the same fucking thing. Yeah. The government says the same thing. All these guys say the same thing
to the government. Okay. Remember Damien? Yeah. Okay. So I'm sorry, Blaine. So Blaine-
Oh yeah, we haven't talked about him in a minute. Blaine is pissed off because Blaine was never allowed
to testify. They bring him back and sit him in the back cell, but they never let him testify.
They don't let him testify because he's not going to say the same thing that Damien's going to say.
Yeah. It's going to be different. So we can't have him- we only need Damien. Damien will
authenticate the emails. Damien will, you know, so we're not going to- We're not going to-
To convict Donovan. Huh? To convict Donovan. Right. He's not going to say the exact same thing.
He's still got ready to say it, but they haven't been- been able to connect to get their stories
straight. So there's a deviation in the stories. So they don't let him testify and then they don't
reduce his sentence. They told him- Blaine's sentence. They told Blaine they would reduce
his sentence. So Blaine writes this angry fucking letter talking about how what Damien said was a
lie and they didn't put him on the stand because he wasn't going to verify the same thing that Damien
did and he writes this letter to the U.S. Attorney and Donovan gets a copy of the letter. Okay. So
how did Donovan get a copy of this? That's crazy. Everybody just writes letters.
How did Donovan get a copy of this? On everybody? Well, a lot of it's Freedom of Information Act.
Matt got the copy. No, no, no. Donovan got that. I get this. I get this. This is what I got.
It's funny because people like Donovan, they're so fucking overwhelmed and obsessed with this
shit. It's all- I mean, plus it's- I get it if you- if you have this crazy thing, like this lawsuit
against you, like you're doing- with every fiber of your being, you are trying to fight it and find
every scrap of evidence. But on top of that, they're in prison and they have nothing else to do.
So it's, I guess, it's not really a lot to find something like that. Well, no, I was going to say
a prior to that, think about it, prior to that, you're still trying to live your fucking life.
Yeah. So I'm starting to live my life, pay the lawyers and go through- the lawyers- the lawyers
are the little- the least amount of work they do on your case, the better, more money they make.
Yeah. So I'm not busting my ass that much. And his lawyer didn't seem to do that good.
No, he didn't do- he didn't do it all at all. Okay, so, okay, so Donovan puts in the motion,
remember? He says, look, I got all these fucking things. Your Honor, I've got this. The government
even went and found this. This is it. This is- I need a new trial. Look, it's true. It's true. So
Donovan puts in all that. So this is the summary where he explains about- about Groofoff and I
don't know these guys. Eastern, all these fucking guys. That's all this. Yeah. That's the- that's
that document. So Mendoza looks at that, reads through it, and denies it immediately. Immediately.
Here's his reason why he denies it. He says the entire scheme was thought up by Frank
Amadeo. What? See, he knows who Frank Amadeo- all the judges know who Frank Amadeo is.
He's fucking giving him. How do they bring this guy into it? Right. And if you don't know who
Frank Amadeo is, Frank Amadeo is the guy who filed both my 2255s and got 12 years off my fucking
sentences is the only reason that I'm not in prison right now. And I should- my out date was
2030. I'm supposed to be in prison right now, but it's Frank Amadeo that got me out. So-
He's a genius bi-polar- genius bi-polar- genius bi-polar- for the Frank Amadeo stuff.
No, he was- we didn't do a podcast on him. He's on your channel. Yeah, we talked about him.
Yeah, we talked about him. Yeah, we did. We didn't tell the whole story though. No,
but his story is on my channel. Inside True Crime. Inside True Crime.
And he is going to take over the world and he is going to be emperor. So-
I'm wearing a new podcast with him. He's fucking awesome. So Mendoza says,
because the same guy that typed up these documents was named Frank, it's Frank Amadeo.
Then he says it's- it's also got- they have to have coordinated- sorry, am I doing it wrong?
Yeah, you're a little too far forward. You're good.
Am I good? Okay.
You were- oh, you were overshooting it. You're good.
Okay. So he also says- he turns it down because he says all of the typed up- all of the typed up
affidavits, all the formats are the exact same and all of the fonts are the exact same. So it all
had to be coordinated by Frank Amadeo. Now, let me point out something to you.
Too perfect. If Mendoza's listening to this.
Which I'm sure he is. We have about 20- no, 20. That's crazy.
15 Swintech typewriters that are 30 years old that don't have any- any-
they don't have any fucking spell check or any- any type of-
In prison you're talking about.
In prison. They are manual- you guys are fucking typewriting.
Yeah. So you could type these documents up on five different ones. They will all look the same
because it's all the same. They're all the same. Same font.
They're all the same font. It's all the same- it's all the same format.
That is actually the reason he denies this. This judge has no clue about that.
No clue. He actually says precisely the same font- the same format and font. Right here.
Same font. That's Frank Amadeo.
As the same stuff that Frank Amadeo uses. Yeah, they're in the same fucking prison.
The whole fucking place has Swintechs. They're 30-year-old Swintechs.
They won't give us computers. God forbid. So yeah, so that's why he- oh, right here.
Mr. Amadeo. He talks about Mr. Amadeo here. He really- they hate Amadeo.
That's fucking hilarious.
Isn't that funny? Okay, so Donovan's in there. He's completely fucked.
Gee, shout out to Frank Amadeo. Yeah. So Blaine is furious. This is another
document from his- from his- talking about a 5k1. He deserves a 5k1- or he got a 5k1.
He deserves a roll 35, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Okay, so now I'm in with Donovan.
I'm writing a story. So I start writing the story. I start doing evident. I start looking-
looking forever. He's got a ton of stuff. And I say to him, okay, I said, yeah, you know,
it'd be great if we could get this, we could get that. And he's like, yeah, well, I don't know.
What do you mean? I said, you know, if we could get the stuff from, like, from Woosendorf,
like, from the stuff, because you guys were trading through him, maybe they've got documents
we could use. And he's like, well, yeah, I couldn't get that. And I was like, well,
let's do a Freedom of Information Act. I said, to be honest, Donovan, you should get a Freedom
of Information Act on everything. Right. And he goes, well, why would I do that? I mean,
I have all the stuff in my thing. I mean, he's thinking like a normal person.
The government gave me everything. So we already said the government has lied about this and lied
about that. He's like, wait, but why would they didn't turn around and give me the same documents
that they've lied about? And I go, because they would give you those documents because the left
hand doesn't know what the right hand's doing in the federal government. Trust me, I made a ton of
fucking money by manipulating public records to make millions because I knew the left hand didn't
know what the right hand was doing. I said, so you order it because the same guy that's in Iowa
somewhere or someone of them fucking square states up north, who's a funky fucking FBI agent
or Secret Service agent working in their Freedom of Information Act department, trust me,
you're in the basement somewhere looking up documents, not why you signed on to be a Secret
Service agent. So that guy doesn't know that the U.S. attorney in D.C. lied because it's not listed
anywhere. He doesn't know him. So if you asked for those documents that he said you didn't have,
you may get them. And he goes, okay, well, how do I do that? I say, look, I got a form letter. So
we fill out the form letter we send it in. He gets back something. First, he gets back something
that says that they have no documents. Then he goes back and says, well, that's not true.
I know you have documents. You just prosecuted me. They come back and they say, well, I got
54 documents. He says, I know that's not true. Okay, okay, okay. Then they come back and they go,
okay, fine, we have 200,000 documents. Jesus. But it's going to take us three years to compile them
and we need $15,000. Well, Donovan still has some money. So Donovan is like, all right, fucking
compiling. There's plenty of dirt to go around people. So then he ends up getting this letter
from the secret service that says, hey, listen, we have obtained these external hard drives
that went missing. We have them in our vault, our evidence vault. What do you want us to do with them?
So Donovan goes, Matt, I got this in the mail, came to Coleman right here, Donovan Davis.
He's like, they fucking got the hard drives. No, no, I said, I thought the hard drives were
destroyed. Well, they have them. The receiver supposedly destroyed. The receiver destroyed them,
right. Yeah. They actually, what happened was the secret service came in and made copies of
everything before they gave it to the receiver, which is what they're supposed to do. Sure.
They still have the copies. Nice. Do you want the copies? Fuck yeah. So the hard, and he goes,
yeah, I do want them. I do want them. So Donovan goes and he says, okay, I do want them. So he
calls his wife, Christy, Christy then calls and says, absolutely we want them. So she said,
she told me on the phone, I talked to her yesterday and she told me that she called,
how many times did she call? Called for, I think almost two weeks straight and left messages.
I want them. I want them. I want them. Finally, she got a call back from a guy
that Donovan's suing right now. She got a phone call back from this guy and he said,
he did have the doc. He did have the heart. So yeah, yeah, I got him. Oh, here's his name.
Agent Roy Dotson. So he's in the evidence department. So Dotson says, yeah, yeah,
we've got them, but they've been erased. She's okay. Well, I want them. Yeah. He goes,
well, why do you want them there? They've been erased. She's okay. Well, I still want them
because she's, she's got this thing, this DA, this data analysis company that's going to
fucking go through. They can recover them. She thinks that, well, she thinks they could be
recovered. Yeah, maybe something's there. She goes, I don't care. I want them. Yeah.
She's trying to get her fucking husband out of prison. So she goes, I want them. And he goes,
oh, well, she's, I can come down today and get him. She goes, oh, no, no, no, no,
they're in our vault. He's going to take about a week or two. You got a schedule and appointment.
He says, okay, fine. So she schedules an appointment. She goes and gets a private
investigator to go with her like almost two weeks later. She goes down there. She gets them.
They get them. They bring them straight here to data analysis. Data analysis looks through them and
says, I've never, they say, I've never seen anything scrub this good. Wow. They go, this
thing's past the fucking factory settings. There's nothing on these things. Nothing. They're blank.
Can't tell anything was even written on them. And she's like, fuck. So, but Donovan and I keep
getting documents in from the government. One of the documents we get in tells that
when Christie called, let's say for the sake of argument on the first,
they said they'd been wiped. They're blank. We'll get a document in that says on the fifth,
they wiped them. After they got them. Five days after you talked to her, you then erased them.
You said they were erased before already. No, no. They can prove that. Yeah. We got,
they got a document that shows when they were erased. We got them out of the fault. We erased them.
We then gave them to her. Oh, by the way, you're not allowed to raise evidence. No, no. Okay.
It's completely against protocol policy fucking just in general. All right. So you can't do that.
So one, so Donovan's suing that guy and a few other people. So Donovan's like,
fuck, this is bullshit. I can't believe they did that. It's upsetting. So then he goes,
you know what? You know what? What about my laptop? Where's my laptop? So he then contacts
there or he goes to the judge, he files paperwork with the judge. They just erased this with the
court. They erased this. I want my laptop. They have my laptop because he has documents in the
show and they have it. So then they go and Christie contacts them and they come back and they,
oh no, I'm sorry, the government comes back and the government says it's been destroyed.
Of course. You destroyed the lot. Let me tell you what happened with my laptops when I got arrested.
I got arrested. I was by the Secret Service. They seized all my equipment. They seized everything.
They seized all my hard drive. They seized everything I had. They seized all my laptops,
everything. Six years later, two Secret Service agents drove down from Atlanta. They pulled me
out. They bring me to a room and they say, hey, we're with the Secret Service. And I said, okay.
And they said, we have your laptops. I said, okay. And they said, do you want them back? We have them.
And I said, well, no, I don't want them. They go, okay. Well, we can, I said, it's old technology
and I'm about to fucking spend another 20 years in this fucking place. So yeah, I'm good. Thanks.
What the fuck do I care? And she goes, okay, well, we need to destroy them, but you have to sign this
paper. And I went, you drove down here. Both of you. She says, well, we, there's two of us.
We have to be here to witness it and you have to sign for us to destroy them. Not Donovan.
No, they just wiped this shit clean and his, his laptop, personal laptop, they just destroy it.
So Donovan's suing that woman too. The Secret Service agent did that too. So
remember he wasn't prosecuted out of Orlando. Donovan wasn't prosecuted out of Orlando.
Remember, um, remember, uh, Hamburg? So why wasn't he prosecuted out of Orlando? Right? That's,
that's one of the questions was like, why does it make sense? It was in Orlando. They had all
the evidence, all the witnesses are there. All the victims are within that within. Why, why would
you have these guys in DC? Well, how did they come in? Okay. So I wasn't quite sure that. And
this is what happened basically after the gap, like after the gap and after I left, these are the
kinds of things that this is a part that started. So this is after you told, this is, this is after
you wrote the story. After I wrote the story, after I left, there's little things that are
happening and Donovan and his wife are starting to put it together. So I've spoken with his wife
and she over the last several days and last week she sent me a packet and I went over the whole
thing because she's really deep into it. Yeah. Uh, so that's gotta be rough. He's in there for
how long has he been in there to date? Like six, six years. Five, six, six. So we got like at least
10 left and still be married and being visiting. How often does his wife visit him? You know what?
Is it, is it five or six years now? Damn. Well, oh, his wife comes every, every, every single,
you can, you know, they have a scale. You can only come like you only, you have points. So you
have to have so many points. So you end up coming like every two weeks or whatever. So his wife
comes like three, like two or three weeks out of the month and they have to balance how many this
and how many points is this and do we get free points that date? Listen to it. They make you
jump through hoops like you can't fucking believe. They don't want your family coming. Yeah. I mean,
they say, oh, we do everything we can. They do everything they can to not have your family come
and this guy has a beautiful wife, amazing person, just a great person all around. He's got a little
baby daughter that gets to, that's, that's basic. I think she's probably like four now,
maybe four or five years old now. I think she was born like just before. Yeah. So he's probably,
he's probably been about five years. So she's running around. So she's, she's experiencing daddy
in the prison visitation room. Growing up. Yeah. She'll be fucking 15, four. He's out. Yeah. She's
she's adorable. God damn. And he got 17 years because he was a sucker. Yeah, he's a sucker. Yeah.
Exactly. Because he was a fucking mark and he made the mistake of going to go in a trial. To me,
you should have fucking tried the plea. I would have come in and just take him because he didn't
know any better. How many, how many years they give him for the plea? No, he probably would have got
three or four years. Oh my God. Absolutely. No way he would have got more than three or four years.
His lawyer really fucked up. Do you understand that the guys that
committed the crime that are hands down guilty? Got half the time he got, not even. Not even.
Not even. One guy is seven years. The other guy's 70 months. 70 months. Yeah. They're out. Damian's
out. Blames to be out in another year or two. Donovan got fucking a decade left. He should sue
his lawyer. That's probably happening. So, okay. So here is why did this is why the, or why
this is what they've come. Why they didn't indict him on the Orlando stuff. In Orlando. Right. So,
Blaine told the, Blaine told the, the IRS agents. By the way, the IRS, it sounds funny,
the IRS agents are essentially like a Secret Service or FBI. They're massive now. Like,
people don't really like the IRS. They're investigating. This is it. The IRS is in
investigating just, just tax, taxes. The IRS is investigating the same kind of shit that
fucking anything to do with money. So they're practically like Secret Service or FBI. So,
they come in, they're investigating and the pilot, remember the plane? There's a pilot by the name
of, of a fuck it. His name is Wiley. His last name was Wiley. I have his first name here somewhere.
Anyway, so Wiley was the pilot for capital blue. He's also the pilot for several other rich people.
So, Blaine, he tells Blaine, Hey, listen, if you, I know I'm on a first name basis with
Hamburg, US Attorney Hamburg, and I know him and I can get him and not prosecute you guys.
Give me 10 grand and I'll make sure that he, I'll make sure he just passes on it because it's
questionable. And so he says, uh, the pilot says that's a Blaine tells Blaine that Blaine gives him,
okay, approximately two to three weeks after the Naples office was shut down, Blaine gave Wiley
$10,000 in cash. He said he was scared. Wiley said he was going to pay off Roger Hamburg.
Wiley had indicated that he knew Hamburg on a one-on-one basis. Davis said that, which is a Blaine.
Blaine said, um, said there should be a debit out of his, uh, region's bank account.
Blaine said his, that his wife, Milani, whatever, um, was in the car with him when he gave, uh,
Wayne the money. He also recalled that, uh, he talked to, uh, his father about the matter and
his father was aware that he'd gone through with it and given him the money. Okay. Wiley told, uh,
Blaine Davis that he would make his life hell if he didn't pay him the money.
So is this pilot just another scammer or is he serious?
Well, I don't think so. Um, basically, because here's the thing that happens and then they don't
prosecute. They don't prosecute them. They don't prosecute them. So what's the reason that they
didn't prosecute them? Years went by. Yeah. You see, it wasn't like two months later, they handed it
off to the U S attorney or to the, uh, to the, uh, to these guys in DC years go by. Yeah. So we're
talking about four or five years go by before DC gets involved. Okay. So Wiley by, by the way,
pilot is named Kevin Wiley. Blaine says he paid him off. Okay. Did he, did he, I don't know,
but I do know that Hamburg didn't, didn't, uh, prosecute him. Right. So the other thing is,
there's a guy by the name, there are two guys by the name of, uh, Joseph Langston and another guy
by the name of Richard, uh, Scrooge, Scrooge. It's a tough name. Okay. So we got, we got Richard
Scrooge and we got, we got Scrooge and we got Langston. Langston happens to know Wiley. Wiley
was his pilot. Well, Langston and, and Scrooge's end up getting indicted for bribing judges.
In fact, that out of Mississippi, they end up bribing a set, uh, uh, end up bribing a bunch
of judges. Scrooge is the, one of the, has one of the largest tobacco settlements in U S history.
40, he got, he convinced 46 and 46 different states. He convinced multiple tobacco companies
to pay out $246 billion. He made, he made over a billion dollars himself. He's one of the richest
fucking attorneys ever. Holy shit. Here's the interesting part is he did that. Part of the
way he did that was bribing judges, judges, juries, lawyers, everything. So when these
guys get indicted, they got a major fucking problem. The problem is they got dirt on everybody.
Right. So when the government steps in and they've indicted these guys, do you prosecute these?
How hard do you prosecute these guys? When these guys are going to touch judges, prosecutors,
other law defense attorneys, they're going to, and one of them is, uh, a U S senator.
What, one of the guys that was involved was a U S senator. The thing about a senator can
put pressure on the, on these tobacco companies, just sell, just sell, just sell. So they come in,
Langston gets indicted, Scruggs gets indicted. They need to get, they come in, they are going to
plead guilty. They plead guilty, but they're going to get their sentence reduced. How can you get your
sentence reduced? You have to cooperate. Yeah, you got to test fine. Right. Well, yeah, but
if Danny and I both plead guilty, who am I cooperating against? I don't really have anybody.
So the more you can provide, assuming you have stuff to provide, which they don't have a lot to
provide. So they're, they're trying to get a sweetheart deal. Well, Wiley ends up telling
Langston, listen, I can give you information and give you information on, on a, on a, a company
that's a, that's, uh, is about to be indicted. They're going under. They've, they stole a bunch
of money. It's a Ponzi scheme. I can give you information. You can give it to the government
and you'll get a reduction for that. And so Langston says, okay, and I have the, the report.
That's the report where I said, I had that report where this was when he talks to the FBI. Oh, Joey
Langston. Langston gives the information. The, the, the source of the information was Kevin Wiley
and Langston gives the information to the IRS. Well, what happens is the IRS ends up saying,
and it's all on capital blue. They talk about capital blue at his sentencing. They talk about
how he gave information about capital blue and they're going to reduce this sentence because
of this information he gave on capital blue. Okay, Danny, for you to get a reduction,
you give information to someone. So I tell on you, you get sent in, you get, you found guilty
sentence and then I get my sentence cut in 2007 or eight. He was given a reduction on his sentence.
He got 30, he got three years. He got three years. Capital blue wasn't prosecuted until 2015.
So you gave the information, you got your sentence cut before, before capital blue was even went to
trial. He'd already served his time. It was out years before years before. Now the other guy,
I'm pretty sure that Scroggs is still, is still locked up. He didn't have the information.
And the problem is, is that if you look at it, the, the IRS, the agents say that the information
he gave didn't help at all. It was useless, but they used it to give him a reduction. So
how do you cover up all of this? How do you make sure that, that he did give us information and we
did use it and it did help. You have to have the prosecution, but, but Hamburg won't prosecute.
So DC comes in, takes the case and they prosecute because we want to make sure there's prosecutions
and they're people found guilty because we give this guy a sweetheart deal. So that's, to me,
that makes sense. It's, it's a loose connection, but it's, it's a connection for sure. They're all,
and it's all capital blue and it doesn't make sense. You gave this guy a reduction for something
that just doesn't happen. It doesn't happen. So anyway, so that's, that's all the, and the whole
thing is, and here's the thing is that anything that Donovan files Mendoza automatically denies.
And you were asking like, why would he do that? Why does Mendoza keep doing it? So
the only thing that makes sense to me is one, it was his first case to your,
you're bringing up mistakes that he made. So my first case that lasted eight or nine days
cost probably a million dollars to try and I kind of botched the case. I let in evidence and I got
a guy that says he's guilty and he go, he went to prison. It's better for me to keep him in prison
than for me to say, I fucked up. Let's give him another trial. Let's fix this. I don't want to
say that. People don't own up to their shit. They better off bear it. And what does it matter?
We got some black guy who digs digs holes. He sells dirt. So is he as important as a federal
judge's reputation? No, of course not. Let him do the time. And honestly, I'm sure it's just like
the Mueller thing. Yeah, kind of. They don't want to, they don't want to tarnish their reputation.
They're not going to take the fall for fucking these guys. Yeah. Same thing with Roussini.
He's a drug dealer. Let him sit in prison. Same with this guy. He's just some black guy that digs
dirt. What does it matter? Let him sit. And in his mind, I'm sure he's justified it too. Yeah,
keep in mind too. Donovan, he did get people to invest in the fund. Into a scam. And look,
maybe even Mendoza initially thought- Damn, he deserves 17. But when he gave it to him,
he probably thought he did. But since then, you've got- At this point, Mendoza knows-
There's overwhelming blowback. Right. Why is the government destroyed evidence?
Why have they destroyed? Why did they erase the-
Servers, hard drives, laptops. Exactly. And what about these witnesses? Why
these guys, the affidavits? At this point, he's making shit up to deny it. Oh, they're all in
the same font. What are you fucking talking about? They're in the same font. That's a crazy
excuse. It was Frank Amadeo. It was Amadeo. He's fucking doing this. No, it's not. I mean,
he's not even looking into it. So the other thing is, and we had mentioned this was,
what was funny, is that- So I get out, right? I get out of prison. All this stuff's going on.
And since I've gotten out, I was still in the halfway house when I talked to Damien.
So I talked to Damien. I tell Damien, look, man,
I ask him to look at the story and help me with the story.
Let's write a backstory. What's your opinion? What do you think?
Donovan's ready to talk. He's ready to tell everybody. I didn't do it.
Damien spins me. Oh, I read the story a long time ago when it was on the website.
I'll let you know. Let me read it again this weekend.
I call him after the weekend. What happened? Did you read it? I didn't get time. I'll read it
in a couple of days. Call him again a couple of days later. Oh, I started to read it. I'm going to
read it this weekend. I didn't do it. Then eventually, he just doesn't answer the phone or return a text.
He didn't want to talk about it. So I tried to have a discussion with him. He just won't even
discuss. He's spinning and spinning and spinning. Blaine, on the other hand, Blaine's fucking a
maniac. Blaine has an assistant that sent me, while I was in the halfway house, sent me a fucking email
saying he had read the whole thing and that it was just nothing but blatant lies.
And I was like, so I can't, he said, and if I didn't remove it within the next 10 days,
he was filing a lawsuit. So I came back and I said, well, first of all, I'm not going to be
threatened. I feel pretty confident that I am protected by the first amendment and that even
as I fell in, you can't take that from me. I said, and you're some fucking guy in prison.
I said, so listen, I said, I'm not doing that. But what I will do is this, Blaine. I said,
anything in this document that you show me that I cannot prove or that I've said is 100% true
and isn't, I will certainly redact it or I will, I will rewrite the entire thing based on the
evidence you can provide. So he comes back and he says, you said this and you said that. And I,
where did you get that information? And I said, well, I got that from the IRS agent,
no, the Secret Service agent that, no, it was the FDLE agent that testified at your sentencing
or that testified during your trial, the trial that you lost. Are you saying that the FDLE
agent lied or FBI, whoever it was, I think was FDLE. Are you saying he lied because you lost
trial? So clearly it was believed. So I feel pretty confident about that one. Well, where did
you get these numbers? There's no proof that I have any offshore accounts with any money in it.
And I go, where did I get the offshore accounts? Well, here's where I got it. And then I say,
this document, this, this, you told the IRS agent this, this, this, this, this. He said,
and I have proof that money was wired here, here, here, and I have proof that you win it.
And so I explained the whole thing, passes on that. Then he comes back, well, what about this?
You said this, I said, where did I get that? I got that from your factual stipulations,
which you stipulated to at sentencing. So I got that from what you said, or are you telling me
that you lied to the court? Because that's where I got that from what you said, what you agreed to.
He comes back. Well, you said that the FBI proved that I was funneling money offshore.
You don't know what you're talking about. He was the FBI, this went on for, by the way, a month,
back forth, back through his assistant. Yeah. He comes back and he says, he says,
the FBI wasn't even involved in my case or in Capital Blue. You don't know what you're talking
about. And I come back and I go, Blaine, I said, you're absolutely right. But when I did a Freedom
of Information Act for a PFG and on Wusendorf, coupled with a request for any information
with Capital Blue, I got the FBI documents, which stated that you were liquidating the assets,
you were liquidating the company and you were shipping all the money offshore, and that Wusendorf
was working with you to funnel money offshore. And I gave him the, I gave him the actual numbers
of the documents. And I said, I suggest you do a Freedom of Information Act for the Chicago
field office for the FBI. You'll get the same documents. I never heard from that motherfucker
again. He told me he was going to sue me. Sam, no, he knows you got it covered. I got you,
bro. I'm not fucking around. What happened to Wusendorf? Oh, Wusendorf, he's still in prison.
How long, oh, he got like, he was done. He got like 100 fucking years. He went in at 70. He was,
goes in at like, yeah, like, I think it was, he's probably, he had a good run over 65, at least
probably 65 to 70. Yeah. Poor bastard. Yeah. Poor bastard. He's like half a billion.
Guys, a game of mine. No, I don't mean that. Half a billy. 20 fucking years.
Just trying to kill himself, woke up handcuffed to death. Yeah, that's, it was so funny. Isn't
that the saddest part? That is the saddest part. I almost feel like, God, bro, I was rooting for
you to kill yourself. I'm surprised you didn't do it in jail. I mean, one, your Ponzi scheme,
although you had a good run, your Ponzi thing falls, falls apart. And then you figure,
fuck it, I'm going out on top and you botch that. Fuck. And you left a note. And you left
the note. Telling all. I mean, he's done anyway, but yeah. You told all. Still.
That is funny. That sucks. Wow. But I don't know. What's the fucking moral of the story,
man? I mean, listen, man, whether you're guilty, I mean, just plead guilty, bro.
Just take the plea. If the feds came in right now and said, listen, Mr. Cox,
we've just indicted you on a 10 kilo conspiracy. Yeah.
And take it to trial where we give you three to four. Yeah. We'll give you five years right now.
Or you can go to trial and get 30 years. I'd be like, well, girl, can we work out
a deal? I mean, yeah, five years. That's not bad. Can I get the drug program?
Do I hear three? Do I hear three? I mean, I'll work with you. I've never seen cocaine.
I don't know anything about it, but I'm pretty sure you're going to get
five guys to testify against me. Yeah. And I can't go to trial and yeah, sure. Okay. I'll take the
five. Can I get PTI? Yeah. Shit, dude. So yeah, I mean, you know, there's a lot of issues.
You think Donovan ever like clears it and gets out earlier? No. He does the fucking
the whole, the whole shebang. The problem is Mendoza. He's unwilling to step outside of his own
ego and say, let me look at this with a clear set of eyes and say, at the very least, he deserves
a new trial. The problem is if he gets a new trial, they won't bring him to trial. Yeah.
They'll just drop the whole thing. They'll come to him and say, look, man, let's listen.
It's fucked up. Right. Take a plea. We'll let you out. What would that trial cost?
Well, probably cost another million dollars. But the fact is, is that you can't put any of these
people back on trial. You can't put, listen, you've got, now you know, Donovan now knows
Blaine's not going to back up Damien. We now know that we can put all this in front of the jury
and prove that these emails are bullshit. This whole thing falls apart very, very quickly.
The receiver's dirty. If you don't have them, you don't have, you don't have, you know, all these
events. What really got him was that you have investors standing up there saying, I put $100,000
in of my life savings and Donovan told me to put the money in. Right. They, like I said,
the amount of money that they sentenced them on, even if, so if, what if you believe, let's pretend
for a second that you believe that he actually knew halfway through. Okay. Why'd you sentence him
on 17 million? Why didn't you just send him some on four? Half of it or a little bit. Why didn't
you just send him some on what he actually brought in, which was only a few million dollars? Right.
Eliminate the money he lost and the money he brought in was a few million. Two of it was his
own money. Right. He's already done the time. Yeah. That's what you did by the sentencing
guidelines. He's already done the time. Let's say you just hit him just for a general principle
of being a fucking moron. Right. Which I'll give you. Time served. Right.
They already missed the first five years of his daughter's life. You're done. He gets out.
You banked on people like Roman Detti who are committing felonies at the time and the government
who knows it's going on and put them on the fucking stand anyway. They're destroying evidence.
They're covering shit up. I mean, it's fucked up. There's bribes involved. There's testimony,
false testimony. You got multiple people saying it. What is the fucking problem? Give him a new
fucking trial. What is the problem? I mean, because of your ego? Yeah. What's the worst possible
thing that would happen to him? Would it affect his career at all? Who? No, no. He's got a lifetime
appointment. Judge had a lifetime appointment. Okay. They're not going. He won't be removed. Nothing.
First of all, you're just maybe trying to make to a bigger position even, you know,
that. Maybe he may be saying, hey, look, I want to become a supervising whatever. Right. But
I don't see that that really affects you. Look, he's a young guy. I think he's in his late 30s
or early 40s when this whole thing started. You know, he was a state judge. He doesn't know. It's
his very first case. I think he's made some mistakes. I think he's covering for those mistakes.
He just doesn't want to own up to it. Doesn't want to own up to it. And the worst thing is now,
it's like, once you dig in, what do you do? You can't not dig in. You can't, you know,
it takes, it takes a hell of a man to step back and say, I fucked up. Yeah. Let's go ahead and
move forward. Let's go ahead and move forward. Yeah, they don't like to do that. Because look,
if Donovan won, he knows that this point, he can't be found guilty. I mean, he can't be found guilty
at this point. Right. He most likely doesn't even get the indictment basically failed and he basically
gets released. Right. And they don't like to let people out. They already sentenced fucking guilty
for crimes and shit. Right. And you know, look, and let's face it, Donovan's going to sue you.
Yeah. He's fucking. Especially, yeah, you let him out now. Yeah. He sold Mendoza. He let him out
after five years. He's suing for a lot of money. It's like he's fucking served. Right. Now it's
just self-preservation. Yeah. I fuck, man. So he's Donovan in a bad spot. Yeah, he's in a jam.
Man, his, his fucking wife just, his wife is, she might as well be a fucking lawyer now. She's
read so many of these things 10 times. She knows the law inside and out. She knows everything.
You imagine, how do you think she felt when she heard they have the fucking servers or the hard
drives? We know that all the emails went through the hard drives. We know we can now prove those
emails are fake. Yeah. Then finds out they're scrubbed after she calls. Right. I'm sure that
wasn't heart wrenching. Oh my God. I feel like your fucking, your, your heart was ripped straight
out of your fucking chest. Yeah. Every single time. I mean, and keeps having to go every two weeks
to see. Shout out to her for being so strong. Yeah. That's a shame. Yeah, that sucks.
I'm ready to go eat, bro. Yeah, I'm ready. Fortunately, I feel. Thanks for sharing that
story, man. That was a good one. Listen, subscribe to my channel. Subscribe.
YouTube.com. Is it slash inside true crime? Do you have a custom URL yet?
Just go to YouTube type in inside true crime or Matthew. We'll put the link in the video.
Links in the description below. I think it's just basically inside.
People are telling me I need to put it does. No, Matt Cox, your stuff shows up.
It says inside true crime. Inside true crime is mine and you can listen to all these things on
audio and you can listen to the gap. Yep. It's fucking, it's good. And your Patreon,
patreon.com slash inside true crime. Gotta do Patreon. Yeah. Listen, I need to be doing this
full time. Everyone needs to go on there and give Matt all the fucking support he deserves for doing
these podcasts and all the money. Not a bad guy. He's a great guy. He's a likable guy. He's not
gonna give him the source. Just sign up on Patreon. Just don't give him your source. All you gotta do
is hit the subscribe button and just give him like five bucks on Patreon. I got something like
probation officers said today. What's your operation? What's your POS? So listen, did I tell you
when I was, same thing when I told you I was in the halfway house and she came to see me the first
time? Yeah. She goes, she said, same thing I told you that I told the fucking shrink. She goes,
she says, so, she said, what are you doing? I said, I'm doing this and doing that. And she was
okay. I'm working here and working at the gym. She was okay. So what are your plans when you get
out? I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna do that. And she was okay. So you feel good about it? I said,
I feel pretty good. I'm gonna bust my ass for about a year. I said, I got this. I got this. She
goes, well, what happens after a year? I said, if after a year, I'm still fucking living in someone's
spare room and I'm driving and I'm taking the fucking bus to work or something. And she goes,
yeah, I said, I'm gonna commit a massive, massive fraud in the late United States. And she went,
she's, you know, I'm not as shocked by that as you think I would be. And I went, it is what it is.
She said, well, let's hope it doesn't go that way. And I said, well, let's hope so. And so,
I mean, I was just, you know, I was just fucking just, you know, I was just angry and pissed off.
And I'm like, okay, cool. So I leave. So then today, she comes for like a random piss test,
right? She stops by. And so I do the thing. She sits down. She goes, how is that so weird? You
get a piss test? No drugs. You never had anything to do with drugs? No. Or any kind of substance?
I got all kinds of shit going on. You do understand that I have, I have to see a shrink once a week
for an hour. Right. I have to do that. I have to call in every day for random urine tests. Okay.
They look through all my bank accounts every single, every single month I have to send them my
bank. I'm doing stuff nobody else is doing. The judge, you told, you know, they're like,
you can't work in construction, you can't work in development, you can't work in finance,
you can't work in bank, bank account, you can't work in real estate. I mean, I'm, I'm extremely
restricted to what I can do. They're very concerned. So,
so what happened when you came today? You know, I did the, the, the UA and I gave it to her and
we were talking and she's, she's a very nice person. Yeah. So, but she says, so how are you
feeling this and that? She's, they're very concerned about my, my level of anxiety. Yeah. So she's
like, you feeling anxious? You okay? I'm like, I'm all right. This and this and that. So she's
everything going good? Like, I'm, how do you feel? I feel good. Everything's good. She's really,
you know, they want to make sure you're acclimated. They're not, she's not an asshole or anything.
Yeah. So she goes, but she strict and she said, she goes, so do you remember when we talked in
the halfway house? And she goes, remember, you were saying that after a year of things weren't
going well. And I was like, oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I shouldn't have said that. Yeah. She goes, yeah,
she goes, yeah, yeah. And she was, yeah, she was, how are you feeling about that? She was,
because I mean, it's coming up on a year. And I was like, I said, I was fucked up at the time.
I was really fucked up. I said, and honestly, I said, things are going so well, it would be stupid
of me. Right. At this point, I said, at this point, it would be stupid of me to do anything. She's
like, you're sure you feel okay? I said, no, I feel good about it. I'm doing well. Everything's
going good. Things are going well. The books are selling. I'm doing the YouTube thing. I said,
for the website, I said, things are moving forward. I said, I've got this documentary.
Yeah, they're going in a good direction. Yeah. I got a documentary. You're on a great trajectory
right now. I got this thing with this production company in Los Angeles. I mean, I got a whole
bunch of shit that's going on. That's going well. And she's like, so you're feeling okay? I said,
so that's probably off the table. I said, that's off the table. It's gone. It's off the table.
It's off. And she says, the look on her face was like, like, don't fuck with me.
It's never off the table. So I thought that was funny. Anyway, yeah. But she's all right.
Good. Cool. We got to keep you out of jail. Yeah, we're keeping Matt out of jail,
keeping him on the path to success that he's on right now. So give him all the love and support
you can.
