Hello there world! After the overwhelming response we got from podcast number 68 with Mike Rinder
about Scientology, I got the opportunity to speak with today's guest, Ron Miss Scavige. Ron is the
father of David Miss Scavige, who is also the leader of the Church of Scientology. Ron and his
family joined Scientology in 1970 and he worked for the Sea Org for almost 27 years. It's also
worth mentioning, Ron signed a billion-year contract with the Church. This was a super
fascinating podcast and it gets really good towards the end. So without further ado, please
welcome Ron Miss Scavige. So who are you? I'm Ronald T. Miss Scavige. Ronald T. Miss Scavige,
good morning. Good morning. Are we on the air already? Yeah, we're on the air, man. Oh, what
the hell? I love your jacket, man. That's nice. Is that suede? It's corduroy. It's a blast from
the past. Listen, when I was a young man growing up in the 50s, corduroy jackets were the thing.
And I loved it because it's a little bit dressy, not too dressy, but it's comfortable. Yeah. Because
it's just corduroy. It's not like a heavy material. So I found some online and I got,
this is a maroon one. I got a moss green one and a navy blue one and I love them. I use them
for gigs and you know, sometimes you have lighting on a gig and that lighting is a little bit hot
unless they're using LED lights. So it's a comfortable jacket all around. I need to get
some corduroy suits in my life, maybe some corduroy, maybe some shorts or some pants or
something. You don't really wear jackets. Yeah, I know. And down in Florida, where you are,
you don't have an opportunity to wear it. Now, I just want to check on something. Does it look
like I'm looking right at you because I am on the screen? But you're looking a little bit to the
right of me. So how about that? That's now you're looking right at me. Yep. Okay. So I have to get
in that position because you can just move my, my screen over. Like, you know what I mean? Like
the picture of me, maybe move it over to your left a little bit more. But if I do that, it's
going to ruin what I have set up buddy. I don't want to, I don't want to mess with it. No, you're
fine. Don't don't even worry about it. Don't even worry about it. You look good. Okay. So yeah,
I just did a podcast about a month ago with the guy by the name of Mike Rinder. He was a top
executive in Scientology. And we talked a lot about your son, David. Danny, let me just interrupt
you for a second. I know Mike Rinder since he was 15 years old. Have you really? That's how old
of friends we are. Because I had my family at St. Hill, England. And his dad and mom brought him
and his brother, I guess, to St. Hill. And I met him when he was 15 years old. He was just, we have
a very long and enduring friendship. And I love him as a person. He had a hell of a job with the
church where he had to do things that, of course, he regrets now. But when you're with that cult,
you do things that later on, you look back and say, God damn it, man, I was really,
I was really, my mind had been sucked in by somebody and changed into something I didn't
want to be. And, but you know, Mike's just a wonderful person, I got to say that.
What a wild story that was. The story that he told me. And just the impact that Scientology has
made on this world, the documentaries that have been made, the people's lives it's affected,
your son is, your son has made a huge impact on this world and on lots of people's lives.
Yeah, I know. And it's not necessarily a favorable one if you get my drift. Okay.
Yeah, absolutely. So, can you give me sort of just like a brief background on who you are,
where you and your family came from and how you guys got into this world of Scientology?
Yeah. And basically, I am, I was born and raised in Pennsylvania in a little coal mining town called
Mount Carnival, Pennsylvania, up in the northeast part of the state. And it was a wonderful little
town to grow up in. It was one mile square, exactly. Streets were laid out in checkerboard fashion,
easy to get around. You know, if you knew you were going to a certain place, you knew
the named streets were running a certain way and avenues run another way.
But the delightful thing about growing up there is this. You had immigrants from Italy,
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Ireland, Germany, just about every country in Europe. So,
this town was like a little Europe. And you had this gathering of people of different cultures.
And because of that, I think we learned how to tolerate each other. Do you see what I'm saying?
Because every, like a person coming from a certain country, they have certain idiosyncrasies or
certain moral codes and stuff. But living with all these different types of people
and different religions, as an example, the Russians who were there went to a Greek Orthodox Church,
whereas the Italians, the Polish and most of the people went to the Roman Catholic Church.
A little bit different ceremony, but sometimes we'd go to each other's church to see what it was like.
It was a lot of tolerance of a lot of things. And one of the best things about growing up there was
when they had block parties. You know what a block party is, right? Yeah. You know,
people come there and they bring their favorite food and stuff. You would have delicacies from
all these different ethnic groups, and it was just out of this world. The town,
you could have all the fun you wanted to have, and you could stretch the law as long as you didn't
break it, okay? That's the type of raising I had. It was very laissez-faire, I'll be honest with you.
And even then, I can remember going up into the attic of our house, and we had the three-story
house, and that last floor, we kept winter clothes, and there was a library shelf there.
And on that shelf was all these different books that my dad had gotten, and I used to go after,
even as a little kid, and pull books off the shelf, and I was always searching for something.
I didn't know what I was searching for, but I was looking maybe for answers.
I can remember pulling off a book called The Prophet by Gibran. Have you ever heard of that?
No. Okay, it's a philosophical book that this guy wrote, and even at my young age,
I got something out of it. Not a hell of a lot, because I couldn't understand some of the words,
but that search carried with me. It carried with me throughout my life. And
when I was a young man, I got out of high school, and of course I was a musician. I
learned how to play a trumpet when I was 11 years old, and I was playing in bars for money
when I was 13 years old. And I remember that in those days, we played a five-hour job. We got
two bucks an hour, so that was $10 for five hours of music. And in those days, you can go to JCPenney
and buy a pair of jeans for a buck and a half. So as a kid, it was good money for me, you know what
I mean? And I got out of high school, and I didn't really know what I wanted to do.
I was playing some gigs, and I finally met a Marine Corps recruiter right on the main street
in my town. And after talking to him for about a half an hour, I decided I wanted to be a United
States Marine. Well, I was only 17 years old, so my dad had a sign for me. So I can remember
taking a recruiter up to my dad's insurance office. He had an insurance business, and we asked him
a sign. He said, Ronnie, are you sure you want to do this? They're the first ones in. I said,
yeah, Pop, I want to be a United States Marine. So I joined, and I'm not going to make this
long story long because it's quite extensive. But I can remember going to Paras Island,
South Carolina, where they had the boot camp. And the first night there was like a living nightmare.
I thought to myself, this is the worst goddamn mistake I've ever made in my life.
Did you ever see the movie Full Metal Jacket? Of course. That is how boot camp is. That is
not an exaggeration. Well, several months later, I'm graduating boot camp, and I thought to myself,
I can make myself do anything. They turned me from an undisciplined civilian who had a hard time
getting up in the morning into somebody who could discipline himself into doing anything he wanted
to in life. And I'm going to tell you that has helped me my entire life. And it probably, in some
way, impelled me toward being able to join Scientology and stick it out as long as I did.
I know that seemed like a little bit of a lengthy story, but that's what I was leading up to.
Are you tracking with me so far? Yes, I am. I'm following you.
Okay, now, how did we get in Scientology? Well, I was working with a friend of mine
called, his name was Nelson Sandy. He was a singer, and of course I played trumpet, but at that point
we had a job selling. Nelson Sandy was the guy that sent me back in the 60s. I used to be a
doctor, but I lost my patience. It's still funny, all right? We come off the stage one time, we're
playing a gig in Greenwood Lakes, New York, and we went over to the bar and a guy came over and
said, Nelson, you're a great singer. Can I buy you a drink? He said, no, but can I have the money?
He was really fast on the uptake with a lot of shit like that, okay? So now Nelson sent me one
day, how would you like to make an extra $100,000 this year? And I said, hey, that's a great idea.
What the hell are you talking about? He introduced me to a pyramid marketing scheme called Holiday
Magic. Okay, I don't know if you ever heard that word before, have you? Multi-level pyramid scheme?
Yeah, well, AMOI is that, if you know what I mean. Yeah, yeah, I know what it is. Multi-level marketing
is another word for it. Yeah, exactly. So now I got involved in it, make a long story short. I got
involved and I purchased products and I became a master distributor, and we used to have opportunity
events where we take people into a motel room and have a chalkboard up and tell them how this
works and recruit people to do it. And that was the business. Get people how they can get rich.
Exactly, which actually is a bullshit story because the people who get rich are the people that
started it. Everybody else's bottom feeders, they're on top and they're scraping the good
stuff right at the top. So we're at this opportunity meeting and I am standing next to a girl who
we're teamed up with. There's Nelson and myself and a girl, Kathy and Jim Hearn was another guy.
We became a part of a team, kind of a marketing team. She's talking to somebody and I'm talking
to another person and this guy said to her, I'm a Scientologist. I said to the guy I was talking to,
excuse me, I said, what is that? For whatever reason, the name rang a bell. Don't know why,
but it rang a bell. But you had never heard it before? Nope. So I pinned him down for about a
half an hour and he told me all these things and I was sucking it in like a sponge that you throw
in the water, just sucking the water and I think, what the hell is this, man? This sounds incredible
to me. And he said, you know, you can become more able. I said, well, I'm pretty able now.
He says, well, do you think you can become more able? I said, yeah, everybody can become more
able. He says, well, then to that degree, you're unable. Very tricky. That's very clever, you know.
So I thought, well, he's right. So I said, well, how do you mean? He said, well, there's things you
can do like you never have to take another aspirin as long as you live. I said, what the hell are
you talking about? So he gave me this little thing to do when you have a headache and it'll
go away. I said, well, I don't have a headache right now. So I can't even try it out. But it
intrigued me. I'll be honest with you. So now maybe a week later, I'm driving down Route 130
in New Jersey. I raised my family in South Jersey right across from Philadelphia, basically.
I'm driving down Route 130 and I realized I have a headache and he told me what to do.
So I thought, okay, well, I'm going to try this out. I tried it out. My headache went away. I said,
hey, I got to try this. Now, I started going to a place in Woodbury, New Jersey where there's a
guy by the name of Frank Ogle. He had a group and he used to- Did it work? Did it work when you had
the headache? It went away immediately and it just blew me away. I said, hey, wait a minute.
Wow, what specifically was it that he told you to do? Well,
I guess I should tell you, but I can tell you this. If it works, it'll work sometimes.
Okay. Yeah. In other words, this may seem so stupid. You're going to say, are you joking?
Here's what it is. He said, if you have a headache, go and look at yourself in a mirror
and give the headache to the person in the mirror.
And he said, I said, well, what if there's no mirror? He said, okay, well, maybe if you're
out someplace and there's no mirror, get a mental image picture of yourself looking at a person in
a mirror, at yourself in a mirror, and give your headache to the person in the mirror,
in the mental image picture. That's what I did when I was driving my car. And I am telling you,
and I'm telling you, this is not a puffed piece for Scientology by any means,
but this actually happened. I did that and immediately one second later, my headache was gone.
Okay. I know it's, when that happened, I thought, wait a minute, I got to check this out.
That seems like a great thing to know. I think it seems like a great tool to use.
Well, I don't ever get headaches anymore. And I stopped getting headaches, I guess,
in around that time. So I've never had another chance to take it because I just don't ever
get headaches. Now, well, it could be, I exercise almost every day of the month,
maybe I'll take two or three days off. I wonder if that would work with other kinds of aches?
I don't know. But you might try it. But there's a whole theory behind it. And I really don't want
to go into it because it'll get into the realm of, wait a minute, what's this guy talking about?
And it's just, rather than get into it, I can tell you, that was the simplicity of what I did
and that worked. But that impelled me to go, there's a purpose enough for telling you that,
because that then got me to go to this place that Frank Ogle was having in his cafeteria in
Woodbury, New Jersey. It was either on a Tuesday or Wednesday night. And he'd get a whole bunch of
people there. And he would say, now, tell me what you think about such and such, or what do you think
about this? And people would originate their answers. And then he'd tell you how you shouldn't
think that way. That's not what Scientology is these days. But he would also do mini miniature
courses like in communication. So I went there, I think for about a month straight on like,
that's for Tuesdays and Wednesdays. And at the end of that, I figured, all right, well,
I got the idea of it. And the whole idea of it is try to be at cause and life instead of effect.
And it improved my communication somewhat. So that was my first taste with Scientology.
Now, let's backtrack to when David was born in 1960 on April 30th. He was born in a hospital in
Lower Bucks County, Pennsylvania, which is just a little bit north of Philadelphia.
And he was born with an asthmatic condition that was horrible. And I remember the day he was born
and he's a twin sister Denise, he's two beautiful babies were born. And I just,
you know, I felt this overwhelming love or you have a child, you told me this when we're talking
about this. There's that feeling that you have toward this new person coming into life.
And unless you've had children, you don't know what it's like. But to a social person like yourself
or myself, it's a moment, I think. Now, his asthmatic condition was terrible. He would turn blue
trying to catch his breath. And I was at my wit's end, trying to figure out something I could do to
help him. I would take him to a pediatrician and the pediatrician would give him a shot of adrenaline.
And that would bring him back to where he could breathe regularly. But I tried all kinds of oddball
ideas. I mean, did you get him an inhaler? Of course we had all that stuff. But when it hits,
it's just, it's a hell of a thing getting him out of it. I'll tell you what I did one time,
because I didn't know what to do. And I'd try everything. It was a winter time and he had this
attack coming on. And he was right in it where you're, you can't breathe out. You can take it in,
but you just can't seem to get your breath out. So I took him upstairs. I took him in the bathroom.
I took off all of his clothes. I took off all of mine. I actually did this show. I'm going to tell
you, this is how desperate I was. I stepped in the shower. We had a stand-up shower there.
And I put the water on warm. I'm holding them in my arms. And I said, David, listen, kid,
I'm not doing this to hurt you because I'm with you. So here we go. I turned off the hot water.
And that fucking cold water came out like ice cubes, hit both of us. We both started going,
I took him out, rubbed him down with a Turkish towel. He was over the asthmatic attack.
That's the kind of shit that I used to have to do to get him out of it. Okay.
And there was a little kid, maybe seven or eight years old, something like that. Six years old.
Anyway, and another thing I did is this.
I used to take him in a garage. I had weights out in the garage. And I'd make him lift weights if
he started coming on. Sometimes it would work other times. Do you think it was like the fact
that you were kind of shocking him with something like that, like lifting weights or getting, you
know, freezing to death in the shower, kind of just get your mind off what's going on inside your
body? Well, it takes your attention off the other thing. And it puts your attention on the fact
mind you, I didn't stand him in there and I held him in my arms. So we both got that. And those
fucking ice cubes coming out of that shower. I mean, Philly is cold in the wintertime and that
water was probably just a degree above freezing, you know? No, I'll tell you where I got the idea.
And God damn, this is like, okay, well, we're going this direction because this is all leading
to a point though. Okay. Yeah. Okay, now I'm in the Marine Corps. And I did boot camp in
Parris Island. And then the Korean War was over. So they said, what do you want to do? Where do
you want to go? And I said, I wouldn't mind going to Quantico, Virginia. Instead of going to Quantico,
Virginia, I had to go to advanced combat training in Camp Lejeune, North Carolina,
which was good. And it was, it was very tough. As a matter of fact, I think physically it was
a little tougher than boot camp. But anyway, I ended up in Quantico and I have a job there working
in a place called schools demonstrations troops. What this was was a battalion of Marines. We had
various companies. We had a machine gun company, an infantry company, a communications company,
a logistics company. And I worked in battalion headquarters. The whole purpose of this battalion
was to demonstrate war problems to Marine officers because Quantico, Virginia is where they trained
officers in the United States Marine Corps. So this battalion of men would go out in the field
and demonstrate various war problems. And the second, second lieutenants to be would be there
observing this and learning from it. What I did is I had to keep statistics on everything that
happened in that battalion that day, like how many men were out in which out camp, like, I think
Camp Geiger was one of them, Camp Upsher, how many men ate there, how many men were on leave,
how many men were on unofficial leave. And I had to compile a complete logistical report and get
it down to battalion headquarters by noon. Okay. This is a tough job. And I learned how to do it
quickly. And because of that, that was the rest of my day. I was free to do anything I wanted to.
So that's what I was doing. I just, just give you a color of what my life was like. And I had to
get some dental work done. So I went down to the dentist, which is on the main side, had some
dental work done. And a couple of days later, at four o'clock in the afternoon, my entire face
went to into extreme pain. It was like somebody put me put me in an iron mask. You know, that
thing they had in the medieval days, where they'd push this, the gorilla and knives at one of your
face. I'm telling you, it was horrible. I went to see the dentist the next day. And I said,
look, here's what's happening. And you got to help me. He says, Oh, I know what it is. That's
facial neurology. Well, how do you handle it? Well, we don't know how to handle it. But here,
you gave me some aspirins. What the fuck is this? You give it a name and that's it. So I went back
to the barracks, came on. I took the aspirin. It didn't work. I went down to the PX and I bought a
bottle of bourbon. I took it back, take a nice slug and a glass, put me laid in bed and went to
sleep. I was doing this for about three days. And I thought, Jesus Christ, I'm going to become an
alcoholic. I can't continue to do this. So I went the next day. And sure enough, it came on again.
I put on my utilities, which is your work, work clothes. And I walked out to the air station
base, which was about an hour ago, about a mile away. Sorry. I go into the place where they had
weights. And I'm in extreme pain. I figure I'm going to lift weights. I'm going to do some goddamn
thing. So there was a guy there. And I said, Hey, you want to lift with me? And he says, Yeah,
so we were going to spot each other. We ended up working out for six months together. So I'm on
a bench and I'm doing a bench press. Okay. So I do one set of the bench press, hand it to him. He
does a set. I'm doing a second set. I said, Here, take the weight. The pain went away.
I had no face pain. So I talked to myself. Maybe if when you're experiencing something
like a pain or some duress, if you could do something to forcibly take your attention off of
it, it might go away because that just happened to me. So I concluded this was I'm like 18 years
old at that point, I had this theory that pain in order for it to exist has to be fed life
by the person receiving it, which I thought was pretty fucking good. Because that handled that
pain. And I never got the facial neurology again. Now, let's get up to where David has
asthmatic attacks, right? Frank Ogle gave what is called auditing sessions. Are you familiar
with that term? Yeah, auditing is kind of like a lie detector test they put you through and they
ask you questions. Yeah, you use an emeter, which is like a lie detector, but it's counseling.
Okay, they hook you up to this electronic thing, and you hold these two like metal rods or whatever,
and they ask you questions. Exactly. That's exactly what it is. And I think, I think most of the
audience watching this probably knows about it if they've seen, you know, other Scientology programs.
But anyway, I thought, you know what, I'm going to see if Frank Ogle can give David one of these
sessions and maybe just maybe somehow it'll work like my lifting weights got my attention off it.
Maybe this auditing session can take his attention off. So I take David down and he meets Frank Ogle
and I said, Frank, there you go. You think you can help him? He says, well, we're going to sure try.
He takes him in a room about 45 minutes later. David walks out, he's smiling, he's bright.
I say, what happened? He says, dad, he's unhandled. He says, you're kidding me. He says, no.
He says, I'm handled. Now, that was a moment for me because he never had another severe attack
as a child. He would get asthmatic attacks, but there were never as severe as it were
before Frank Ogle took him in for that auditing session.
Now, how can an auditing session have that kind of effect on you?
How much do you think the mind has to do with how you feel and think and are?
100% of everything.
Okay. Well, that's exactly what you address when you go into these. Listen, before I go any further,
I'm not advising people to join Scientology, okay? Because there is some good to it,
but the bad far outweighs the good. I am telling you, there are beginning courses that you do,
like the communication course. I will tell you, I've benefited from that ever since the first
day I took it, but you started getting into the other stuff and it turns into horseshit,
and you're going to be out a lot of money and you're going to have your family disconnected
from you and your friends if you talk out against them. So, believe me, I want them to join.
There's a lot of wacky shit, like, you know, worshiping a galactic overlord Xenu that once
you get into the depths of it, like, we'll cover this later in this podcast, but the beginning
part of it, the part of Scientology that hooks you, there's a lot of benefit to it. There's a
lot of, you know, eliminating your demons, getting rid of all the negative influences in your life,
you know, getting shit done. I'll tell you, you're right, this is the hook.
That beginning is the hook and I'll show you how that works then, right? But let's get back to David
now, okay? So now, never had another severe attack. At that point, I decided, I'm going to get my
whole family in this. So you think the auditing session taught him how to use his mind in a different
way? No, it doesn't teach you that. But probably what happened is this, it gets you to realize
that you had something, if not everything to do with the position that you're in.
As an example, let's try a little analogy here. A guy's living in a swamp and every year he gets
swamp fever and maybe about once or twice every two years, he gets bitten by a snake
and he makes it to the doctor to get the snake poison taken out and he lives.
Now, Scientology is not going to teach you how to cure yourself of snake bites or swamp fever,
but it might get you to realize, why did you move to the swamp in the first place?
You see what I'm saying? Why did you put yourself in harm's way? That might not be a correct
analogy for what happened with David, but I'm telling you, it gets you to come to more of a
causative point as to what you have to do with what's ailing you or what's troubling you or
some physical things. Look, this is no bullshit. That beginning stuff helps a lot of people,
but it does this. You do the communication course and you think, man, this is great.
I can communicate better. I know the anatomy of the communication.
If it goes awry, I know how to fix it. I can handle life better. I can get along better
with my wife, other people. Man, this is good stuff. In other words, you're starting to gain
confidence in it, right? Another thing comes along, maybe you receive beginning counseling or
auditing and you come to realize some things as to how come you felt bad about a certain person
or why you feel bad about yourself. Anything, this is good. You're gaining confidence.
You're gaining confidence. Now, something comes along and it presents a fact to you
that doesn't quite seem to make sense. You think, well, this doesn't seem to make sense, but
I'll accept it because everything so far has been good. The hook is in.
You're saying, you're saying, because there's, there's, because there's things that worked,
you knew they worked, you applied them, they helped you in life. Now you're presented with
something that was a little bit off the mark, but you think, well, it doesn't quite make sense,
but I'll accept it because everything so far has been true. Because now you're a believer.
And at that point, you're susceptible to believing everything and anything they tell you
because you've made up your mind in the first part that it's all good. So it must be all good,
all the way. Maybe I don't understand it exactly. Maybe there's something about it that I'll learn
later on, but I'll accept it. So you're saying all of the self-help stuff in the beginning,
the stuff that needs you to be better at communicating, you know, better at using your
mind to, to overcome your situations better, you know, helps you to make more to sit better
decisions in your life. That is sort of like the peanut butter that helps you swallow the pill
of what comes later. Yes. And I'll tell you this, if you just, well, you shouldn't say all the things
that you get, but I'd say most of them, I can't think of what wouldn't be good, but I'd rather
give it a percentage rather than saying 100%. But the early part is good. That's in my experience.
And I can tell you just from my experience because it helped me, but that's to my detriment,
because then that, then hooked me into thinking everything is going to be good.
You see what I'm saying? Now, if you, if I were to quit at that point,
I would have been a favorable thing, but I didn't. And I was in it for 42 years, my friend. Okay.
That's a long time. You got damn right. You wouldn't want to hold your breath for that long.
All right. How old are you? 84. 84. So that was almost half of your life.
Yeah. And people say, well, don't you really wish this and wish that and regret it? Let me tell
you something. I don't spend time regretting things or going over, Oh, what was me? Because
the end result of regretting something is having regretted something. There is nothing to it.
You're living today. You did what happened yesterday. Create a better tomorrow for yourself and do what
you can to help other people not to get involved. And that's how I try to live my life. I have a
forward philosophy, Danny. And as a matter of fact, I told this to Mike when I was writing my book,
Mike Rinder, and it's simply this, help somebody, help something. And I try to live by that. I don't
always do it, but I try to and I can tell you, I feel better helping something or helping somebody
than I do being helped. That's just me personally. So that kind of puts me in a frame of mind where
I'm not always sitting around, you know, drinking a martini and saying, Jesus Christ, look what was
me. Come on, man. It's gone. There's nothing you can do to change yesterday, but you can change tomorrow
and you can help a lot of people if you do something effective. These are one of the things
like being interviewed by me. I hope a lot of people who see this, some of them could be involved in
Scientology and they hope they walk away. That I would be pleased with. But now we're getting back
to David, okay? So David gets an auditing, goes through an auditing session and he comes out of
that auditing session and he says, dad, I'm fixed. Yeah. And at that point, I said, no, say it again,
he never had another severe attack. He had attacks that were mild. You see what I'm saying? And that
was a big deal. So he was able to control them? Well, yeah, for whatever reason, because I guess
in that session, in that auditing session, he realized that, hey, wait a minute, I've had something
to do with this. Well, I'll just, you know, maybe ride the wave a little bit. And I don't know what
he did, but whatever he did after that, he never had one where he was dying to get air. And I had to,
you know, take him in a cold shower or have him lift weights, okay? Okay. But that was the point
where I decided I'd get my whole family in. And I did. I took them all down to a mission
in Sherry Hill, New Jersey, and put them on beginning courses and on some auditing and stuff.
And I ended up going to England two times each for a year and a half to, and I took my whole
family over to put them on the bridge. They didn't go to school the first time. All they did was did
Scientology courses. And as a matter of fact, that's why Mike was in England when I met him
when he was 15 years old. His dad took his family and his children over there to do that.
So my children and his dad, we are of similar mind as far as Scientology was concerned. We
thought it was the greatest thing ever. Listen, we thought if the Scientology auditing or technology
rather could be applied, it would help every man, woman and child on this planet. That's the mindset
of a Kool-Aid drinking Scientologist. And I'll tell you, once you get in that mindset,
you defend that. You justify why you feel that way. You become arrogant. You think you're smarter
than the WOG, which is a person who doesn't know Scientology, who's not in. It really is a prison
of the mind. I love the title of that book, The Prison of Belief. It's so accurate.
Because you don't need bars. You don't need bars to be in this.
No, you don't. Can I make a plug for something, my website?
Yes, please.
It's called therealronmiscavage.com. And I'll tell you why I'm plugging it. Well, first of all,
I'm plugging it because I want a lot of your listeners, hopefully, to come over and watch it
because I have over 90 interviews of people who have been abused by the Church of Scientology.
They can watch these. And you'll see similarities and all of these of the people who lost their
family, who were disconnected from their children, lost their friends. Maybe some of them went
bankrupt, lost their house. So it's worth watching. And it's also worth watching because
there's a situation that happened when I had two private investigators following me.
And that entire interrogation with the West Alice police is on that website. You can listen
to that entire investigatory questioning that the West Alice police gave the private investigators
who were following me. Okay, so let's get back to the story where you basically you get your whole
family into it, into Scientology. And what happens next? Well, we go to England and
we're on course. And then I came back to the States for a while and went back over.
Did you sail on the ship with Elron Hubbard? Never. No. No. As a matter of fact,
I never met him face to face. The closest I came to meeting him was
after I finished, when we were in England the second time, I got a recording deal with
Polador Records to do an album, which I did do, and a writer's contract with
Chapels Publishing for my music. And I sent him a copy of the album. And he heard it and he said
to one of his aides, see if you can get this guy for me. They never followed through. And thank
God they didn't because I may have ended up joining them on the ship. And that would have been a
dire blunder on my part. I got to tell you, man. Mike Rinder said he was on the ship.
I know he was. Yeah. It was quite an adventure he had there too. What a crazy thing. So they were
all like just like slaves for Hubbard on that ship. He was just captaining the ship and he wore
this crazy captain's outfit. Yeah. He smoked a pipe and sailed the Seven Seas with his slave
workers. His messengers. They were Commodore's messengers. That's what they called him. Oh,
that's what he called himself, the Commodore? Commodore, right. And the young people he had
working for him, he would give orders to give to people on the ship and they'd go run and give
the order to the person and come back and tell Elrond Hubbard what the guy said. They were called
Commodore's messengers. And did your son, David, end up on this ship? No. No. No. So now getting
back to the story about England. So then we came back and now we're living in a little north of
Philadelphia in a town called Broomall. And David is in high school now. I come home from work one
day and he's laying in his room with his head in his hands like that, laying that back. I say,
Dave, what's up, man? And he says, dad, he says, I don't want to go to school anymore. I said,
what do you mean? He says, listen, I'm in school and none of the kids want to learn anything.
They all smoke dope. They wise-ass to the teacher. They don't show her any respect. He said,
it's terrible. I said, what do you want to do? He says, I want to go and help Elrond Hubbard.
As you're kidding, he says, no, he says, I want to join the sea organization.
Now, at that moment, I thought to myself,
I was 17 years old when I met the Marine recruiter. And I really wanted to become a marine.
That actually changed my life for the better. He's going to be 16 years old soon.
I've got to give him a shot at what he wants to do because maybe he's right. Maybe this is
what he's destined to do in life. And I said to him, David, I'll tell you what,
I'll help you, man. I'll do whatever I can to help you do that. So I gave him a bunch of money,
bought him some clothes. And on the day after his 16th birthday, I bought a ticket for him to go
to Clearwater, Florida to join the sea organization. And I saw him off on an airplane.
And he went, joined the sea org down there. And I think within seven months, he was working with
Elrond Hubbard. By the way, from where I am sitting right now, I could hit a golf ball and hit that
flag building. That's how close I am. I'm right in the heart of it. That's where it all started,
right? Give me the background on that building. Well, on that building, here's what happened.
That ship that Elrond Hubbard was sailing around the Mediterranean, right?
Here, let me get a drink. It used to be a hotel. It used to be called the Jack Tar Hotel.
Right. Now here, the ship that Elrond Hubbard was on in the Mediterranean was called the Apollo.
They were running out of ports to go to because apparently the CIA was on to them. And if you're
out in open sea, you can't just snatch anybody. Once they landed a port, if you have reason and
warrants, you can grab them then. So they decided to sail across the Atlantic and go to the States
and go on land. So they sailed across and they bought that hotel. I think it was called under
the name of United Churches or something. It was an under the table deal for cash.
They didn't say it's Scientology buying it, but they bought that hotel thing on the pretext that
they were a church organization. And that's how they got started there at that hotel. It was a
lie, a complete lie that they told in order to get it. So he was originally sailing the Apollo
in international waters to avoid indictments. He already owed tons of money to the IRS.
I don't know if that was it other than maybe probably because they had no tax exemption
and he was making tons of money. He would get suitcases full of cash delivered to the ship
and that would go into bank accounts and Swiss bank accounts.
Yeah, it was an operation. So they're after him for many things, which I can't specifically tell
you. I'm not privy to that. So I'm not going to make up something, but he was on the lamb.
So once David flew out to Clearwater and started working at that main headquarters over there,
obviously he started climbing the ladder, right? Yes. And what happened?
Well, at that point, L. Ron Hubbard was in California and in a place close to
Palm Springs. I think it was called and it was a date farm and they used to shoot movies there.
They made these movies because L. Ron Hubbard felt that people in society were going illiterate.
The education was not that good. They didn't understand the written word as good as they could.
So he decided to shoot movies to make points about applying his technical points to other
people to make them better. If you see a movie on how to do something, it's monkey see monkey do.
You follow me? Yeah. So he was shooting movies and David ended up there and he ended up being
the cameraman. He would shoot the actual movies with L. Ron Hubbard on the set. Wow. Oh, yeah.
And that happened in a short time. He did start climbing the ladder. There's no two ways about it
and just got himself into a more powerful position where he was what's called the action chief and
that would be a person who would send out C organization members on missions. Like if you
would go to an organization that was not doing well, you'd go there with mission orders and you'd
implement those. You'd usually have two people at least and he would run these people. He'd give
them the orders. They'd send back reports and based on what he got back, he'd give them further
orders to do, which was quite a position of power. You see this as the longer he's in now,
he's achieving more power. Is he making good money doing this?
No. I mean, as a Sea Org member, like when I joined in 1985, we were getting $30 a week.
$30 a week. $30 a week. Mind you, you got your room and board, you got uniforms, you got fed,
but yeah, that's what we got. And then some years later, it was bumped up to $50 a week.
But many weeks, you didn't get paid. If the organization didn't make enough money
or somebody fucked up within the organization, everybody would pay. There was a girl who went
to, I'll give you an example of that precisely. She goes to an event up in Northern California
and she bought, she didn't buy, she rented these fake bushes to put up like a wall around where
the event was going on. That turned out to be bad publicity. So she was made responsible for paying
what it cost to rent those bushes, which was thousands of dollars.
What happened? Everybody in the organization didn't get paid that week because of her screw up.
Jesus. I know. It's insane. And I'm gracious when I say that it's insane.
You know, it's really like lunatics on steroids. Come on, man. And everybody pays for the one
person screwing up. It would be like in society. If somebody stole a car, everybody in town had
a chip in and pay for the car that the thief stole. The thief wouldn't go to jail. Everybody was
punished. Don't try to make sense out of it because it doesn't make sense. If you know it's nuts,
you understand what I just said to you. So now, what does it mean? What is the Sea Org?
And how do you join it? Okay. The Sea Organization is actually, you could call it a fraternity or a
brotherhood. Let me give you a comparable to the Sea Organization. Okay. So we can look at it on
something that you do understand something about. Let's say the Catholic Church. Okay.
The Catholic Church has parishioners. That's people who go to Mass and they receive sacraments and
whatever they do. Okay. That would be the same thing as Scientology public who goes into an
organization to receive auditing or do courses. Okay. Then they have priests that run those parishes.
Okay. In Scientology, you would have staff members running those lower grade churches.
That would be staff members. That would be comparable to the priests. Okay. But then within
that framework, let's say in Los Angeles, you would have LA Day, Los Angeles Day Organization.
That would be like a priest run by priests, not necessarily Sea Organization,
but contracted staff members for two and a half or five years. Okay.
You with me on this so far? Yes. Okay. Now,
while you're there, you would have an advanced organization, which would be
some place where you'd go to advanced Scientology spiritual technology.
That would be run by Sea Organizations, which are people who sign a billion-year contract
to keep on forwarding Elron Hubbard's works across the universe. Okay.
Yeah. That's the Sea Organization, and that would be comparable to, let's say,
you would have a, let's say in Pennsylvania, there's the head, I think it's, I don't know
the word now, I can't think of it, where you have bishops. These guys would be like bishops running
churches. Right. But now the people at the main headquarters up in Hemet, California,
they would be like the Cardinals in Rome. Okay. That makes sense. Do you see that? How
that works? In other words, people who are public preachers in a church, that would be public
Scientologists. Lower level things, that would be run by priests, which would be comparable to
the staff members at those lower and going up until you gain more power. And the top end would
be like the Cardinals in Rome, and David would be likened to the Pope. Now, do all these people
sign these billion-year contracts? Every Sea Organization member does. A staff member at a
lower level mission, excuse me, organization signs a two and a half or a five-year contract.
In addition to the billion-year contract? No, they don't sign the billion years.
Staff members would be like the priests in the local church. It's only two and a half or five
years. Okay. But that's also a place that's considered a feeding ground for Sea Org recruiters
to grab people from there to get them to sign the billion-year contract. Does anybody challenge it?
Like, does anyone like, oh, let me get my lawyer to review this?
Never. Never. No, it's all done under duress. I mean, people come over and spend hours listening.
Then, I used to recruit people for the Sea Org. I used to recruit people to do this. I used to do
videos telling people about the gains that they would get from listening to L. Ron Halberts'
lectures. I did all those things. I'm not talking about something I read in a fucking book. I did
it. I understand the state of mind. I understand. You said earlier in talking with me, you don't
need bars. You just have to have a prison of your own mind. And you do this. And you do it almost
on a daily basis because if you're a Scientologist, you're supposed to study two and a half hours a
day, five days a week. And basically what you're going into is just going in and telling yourself
these things and you're indoctrinating yourself. You are building your own prison in your own mind
on your time. And if you're a public Scientologist, you're paying for it.
Yeah. It's the cleverest scam that could ever possibly be run.
How many people at this time when David first got in and we started climbing the ladder,
how many people were in Scientology? How many active members were there?
Well, I'm going to guess at it, but I'm guessing based on people who were on the lines, when I say
the lines, in a position to know better. In the 90s, there was considered to be about 100,000
active Scientologists in the world, which is quite a bit. These days, with the advent of the
Internet, and now look at the toothpaste is out of the tube. You can't get it back in. Come on.
The cat has left a fucking bag. Okay. And you just can't say, oh, we were only joking. Come on.
It's estimated that maybe it's on the lower side of 20,000. That's going from 100,000 down to less
than 20,000. Well, it's a big drop off, but it's deservedly so. I mean, you are...
How do they still make money with only 20,000 people? I mean, they got a lot of overhead.
Do they have a lot of overhead? Well, let's put it this way.
If you're a church and they're considered to be a church, probably
whoever gave them that exemption should be, should run a Monty Python show and tell the story.
I mean, it would qualify as a good show. All right?
If you have a church, you just can't keep on gathering money and making more and more money.
You have to show that the money you're taking in has some benefit to your parishioners. Okay?
So now, how do you handle this? Well, one of the bright ideas that they come up with was this.
They would purchase new buildings and renovate them to the inch of their lives with marble
floors and beautiful appointments and everything. And that would be to the benefit of people coming
in to do services. They would gain that money. Maybe, you know, some of these cost 10, 20 million
dollars. They could put that money into it. Now, they have a real estate holding, and they can
say that we're benefiting the parishioners. So that's like laundering all this money through
real estate. Good way to put it. As a matter of fact, I tell you, that is the brightest
answer I've ever had on this, and I've done a lot of these things. That's great, Danny.
You're laundering money through real estate. Yeah, that's what it is. Well, you're exactly,
I'm not going to add anything to it, but I will add this though. You know what's in those places?
Absolutely nothing, right? Air. Right. They're air storage places. Yeah, in downtown Clearwater,
all that real estate they own, they have this, they have this like street level, like
storefront real estate in downtown Clearwater that they keep completely empty. And it keeps,
it keeps that whole town dead. Well, and the businesses that are open that are successful,
successfully running their own, the landlords are Scientologists, so the owners are Scientologists.
Yeah, you got it. But that's, that's what they do. And that's, so now how do they pay to rent?
How do they do all these things? They have what's called whales. That's, I think that's a term that
originated in Las Vegas. A whale would be a high spender. He'd be the guy that you'd meet at the
airport in limo. You'd drive him and you'd comp him his room and the room had everything you needed.
And you know, free food, everything. Cause all you wanted this guy to do was go down and play
blackjack or roulette or whatever he played or poker and lose millions of dollars. As a matter
of fact, there was a guy who owned the Philadelphia Eagles. And you know, I'm not putting them down
now because you know, some people have gambling as a drug. His name was Leonard Toes. He built up
so much debt to Las Vegas. He had a sell the Philadelphia Eagles football team to get out of
debt. Really? Yeah, that's how, um, I can't think of a guy's name who bought it. Yeah. The guy who
bought it was a real estate developer and he got it for a good price. He sold the Eagles to pay off
his gambling debts in Vegas. Oh my God. So he would be considered to be a whale.
Okay. So you're saying there's, there's, there's few people in Scientology that just donate tons
of cash. Not few. There's a lot of them. And when I say, there's like Duggan, Bob Duggan, I think he
came up with some way to cure or handle a certain type of cancer. He made billions of dollars on it.
And I think he ended up giving the church wild guess I could be off maybe something like 30 million
dollars over the period. Does he live here in clear, does he live in Clearwater? I don't know
where he lives. I have no idea. There's a bunch of, there's like this really rich neighborhood in
Clearwater called Bel Air, um, like Bel Air of Florida. And, uh, I had a friend who bought a house
on the water, like a really nice, like $6 million house on the intercoastal. And the whole bottom
floor of the house was like a recording studio that was renovated into a, like an emeter room,
an auditing room. When he bought it, it was just like this crazy looking dungeon that they used
to do auditing. So yeah, all the people with money down here are mostly people with money.
Yeah, that's what they do. And they give, you know, millions, millions of dollars to the church.
They have an event every year in, um, St. Hill, England, which is in, uh,
Sussex County, and they have a tent. They have, they rig up a tent and that tent is rigged up
like a big banquet room. If you were to see the field before they started and look at this,
it would almost look like a miracle. And they have two events there. They have the patron's ball,
which is, uh, a ball where all the patrons come and they dance and they just have a good time
and they receive rewards. And then they have, uh, another time where, uh, they give out,
they have a local thing for the local people in East Grinstead. But that's where the people
come up on the stage. People who have given 50,000 up to 10, 20 million dollars, they receive a big
trophy and a certificate. And that's it. That money, there's a good business. Look,
here, you take a piece of paper, write something on it, and you get 10 million dollars for that.
It's a good business, low overhead, right? Yeah. You get the certificate that he's a diamond maximus,
protumus, colosimus, gave 10 million dollars. Here's your paper, a big, big certificate,
and he takes pictures of you and you smile and that's the end of it. That's how they paint the
builds. At what point did you start to see your son sort of disappear, sort of slip away from you?
Like, at what point did you see him start to go down the dark road? Well, I can tell you this.
When I joined the series organization, we were still on very friendly terms with each other.
I can tell you, listen, I must say this, and I say it on every program.
As a child, we had a wonderful time together. We had a great time together. He had a great sense of
humor. He was a tough little kid. He was smart. He turned from Dr. Jekyll and the Mr. Hyde, and
as far as I'm concerned, yeah, maybe he had that built into his DNA to do that. Although,
there are times when I wonder, maybe a lot of us have things that are there if they're nurtured,
they'll come out, but we don't do them. But in his case, he went from Dr. Jekyll and the Mr. Hyde
with the acquisition of power. Do you follow me? There was an English philosopher. Well,
he wasn't a philosopher. He was a member of parliament. He lived in the 1800s. His name
was Lord Acton. He is the one who said, and this is an exact quote, power tends to corrupt,
and absolute power corrupts absolutely, which I'm sure you've heard. Yeah. Okay.
And I think that's what happened to David. Now, let me tell you
when this happened, and then I'll backtrack to when you start slipping away. While he was in
this organization, while he was higher up in the ranks, we spoke about a little earlier,
he did have a severe asthmatic attack, and it had to be taken to a hospital to the emergency room
to get it handled. So the next day when they went to pick them up, the guy told me David came out
and he said, listen, I had an amazing realization. And here's what it is. He had this when he was
in there getting treatment for the asthma. His realization was this, power is not granted.
It is assumed. And that's what he did. He assumed the leadership of Scientology
when Elron Hubbard died, got people out of the way who protested him doing it, put his own people in
who would back him up, and he eventually took over the church that way. He just assumed that
position. He was not picked by Elron Hubbard. He was not appointed. Elron never didn't appoint
anybody to succeed him. When he died, he died. That was the end of it.
You didn't have a will or anything?
You left a will for the money. But as far as, you know, like if you're in a position of power,
like if you were a king and you wanted a certain son to be the next king, you'd say, okay,
I want this son to be my king. That would be your bequest, you know.
Yeah, you would think a guy like him would have some sort of a plan after he dies,
who would run the Run Scientology.
Well, you would think that, but it didn't happen, all right? And I agree with you.
But now, let's get back to the question, when did I see him slipping away, right?
Right. Well, when I joined the C organization, first of all,
you're living in quarters that, with other people that, you know, cockroaches and
really bad quarters. What he did, he got me a room in this building where it was a very nice
room and he had it appointed nicely. So when I was through with my daily activities in the
beginning part, the Estates Project Force, which is like bootcamp for the Seward,
while I was doing that, I had a very nice room to stay in. And we got along great.
And now, I go to golden era productions. And since I'm a musician,
I go right into the music department. And the studio is a fabulous looking place.
As a matter of fact, when I first got in, the first thing I did was I did an album with Edgar
Winter. Does that name ring a bell to you or no? Yeah, I've heard, I heard the name.
Edgar Winter, he was a rock and roll star of the 70s. Okay. The song, Frankenstein,
you remember? You remember that? Oh yeah. You might remember that.
That was his and he was a brilliant, brilliant musician. I did an album with him. That's the
first thing I did. I mean, you talk about like a pig in shit. I was really happy, you know?
I mean, I worked hard, but I'm working with him. I'm playing on the album. I did all the trumpet
work on it. I did solos on it. And one day, I come out of the studio and David was about
30 yards to my left. And I saw him and he's walking with his coterie. There's maybe three or
four people with him. And I says, Hey, Dave. And he turned and he looked at me and he gave me a look
that I thought, I better not do that again.
And that little bit of a hint there was a harbinger of things to come. Okay.
I realized that at that point, I was a staff member at Golden Era Productions.
He didn't call me dad. He called me Ron whenever he addressed me. On my birthday or Christmas,
if he sent me a gift, he'd write Dear Dad and he always gave me very nice presents and treated me
well on those days. But on an everyday basis, I was another staff member at Golden Era Productions
and he was the chairman of the board. When his power hit high gear or supersonic speed,
it was the night that he announced that we had tax exemption from the internal revenue service.
And that was done at the sports arena in LA. And that was, he shot up in the ranks. At that point,
he became a powerful individual in the church. Because at that point, everybody looked up to him
as the savior. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. And anything he did, any stuff he did,
was considered okay. I mean, there are people in politics that way. And I'm not really going to
get into politics. But if they have backers who've backed them up for years, that politician could
do anything. And they'd say, well, that's okay. That's so-and-so. You know, it's all right. You
see what I'm saying? They become opinion leaders for their followers. Absolutely. You become an
opinion leader and your opinion counts more than what the person thinks about you. Because his
opinion could come to you when you say, well, I'm wrong for thinking that. It's a delicious thing,
power, but boy, I'll tell you, it poisons a person. Now, at this point, when did the tax exemption
happen? I knew in 93. In 93. And what were you doing? Like, what was your day-to-day
tax? Like, where were you living? What were you doing? How are you getting paid? Well, no.
I was in the C organization for 26 and a half years. All right? Yeah. I lived every bit of that
at the Golden Era Productions base in Hammond, California. Okay. Okay. That's where I stayed
all the time. I worked in the music department the entire time. This is when you're getting paid
30 bucks a week? To begin with. And I think maybe by then we may have been getting $50 a week. But
as I said earlier, sometimes we wouldn't get that. I remember one time we didn't get paid for months.
And then the commanding officer said, well, it's like a forced savings account. You get it at the
end. We never got it. We just never got it. You just got screwed out of the money.
And like, what was your relationship? So your relationship, your father-son relationship,
would you say that that was completely gone by that point? Not completely gone, but it was only
on occasion that we had that. On a day-to-day basis, if he came in to see me and I worked with
a guy by the name of Peter Schles, it was all business. It was not father and son at all,
not even a little bit. But like, there would be times maybe when we were on a break from lunch
and he'd come over because he sometimes would be in an office near where we had lunch. He would come
over to where I was and just sit down and shoot the breeze with me. And that was father and son
type of thing with me and Becky in my life. But it'd become fewer and fewer. And I'll tell you
truthfully, what I longed for anything more than presence or anything was that he would communicate
with me more. Sometimes he'd come to the base and be there for two or three weeks. He wouldn't even call
me. Yeah. You know, just to say hello, dad. And that was how it was. Yeah, that's sad, man.
Yeah, it is. And look, I'll tell you what else is sad. Look, my daughter Denise, my daughter Laurie.
Are they still in Scientology? Absolutely. Their children, they're all in. Their children have
children. I've never met those grandchildren. The only ones I'm in communication with is my
son Ronnie, who by the way, had celebrated a birthday today. I played Happy Birthday for him
on the piano I have in this room. Today's his birthday? My son Ronnie. And is he in Scientology?
No, he left in the 90s. Okay. Yeah. And I'm in communication with him and Jenna, his daughter,
which is my granddaughter, and her children. So that's my family right now. And the two cats,
I guess you could call them my family, because my big cat, Frank, I have a chair at the table.
He's at the table with us. And we were talking about this when we were talking about the interview.
I have a feral cat named Sammy. Oh, yeah. And she has a bedroom dedicated to her. So
once she gets over her fear of me, she'll probably sit at the table and eat with us, you know. So
yeah, that's awesome. You should have set her up on the table with you for this podcast.
Well, she's not in a mood to, she doesn't know if she can trust me yet, okay?
Yeah, she's keeping her distance. Yeah, well, she knows she's going to get great food because I give
her the best food money can buy. And she looks forward to that, but she enjoys my singing more
than me touching her, you know. Anyway, getting back to this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So at what point did this reach a level, a point of no return? Like where you,
there was a tipping point, right? Where you, you realize like, you got to get the hell out of here.
This is, it's, it's beyond our control. Yeah, well, my wife is the eternal optimist, okay?
Things were getting bad, like not getting paid. Well, here, you live in golden era productions.
You're in a compound, there's a fence around it with barbed wire pointing out and pointing in.
You can't get in your car and go to Walmart and pick up
some underwear or shaving cream or razor or something, you know.
You just can't leave the base willy-nilly. Here's sequestered there. You can't make a telephone
call without somebody being on the extension, listening to what you're saying and then writing
a report on what you talked about. You can't receive mail without it being opened by the
security guards and you can't send out a mail in a sealed envelope. You can write a letter,
you have to leave it open. Security guards will get it. They'll read it. If there's anything in
there that they don't want to be known, they'll send it back and tell you how to correct it and
send it out. So you're living a completely controlled life. My whole life prior up to that,
I had been basically self-employed. So I was like a free agent. I could come and go as I pleased.
You said I'm saying, but I figured you can leave the compound and go wherever you wanted.
You say what now? You could leave the compound and go wherever you wanted.
You mean in life itself prior to the Sea Org? No, when you were in the Sea Org.
I couldn't leave the compound ever. No, I could not just walk off the base.
Even if I had to go to see a doctor, I would have to have somebody be with me and we'd have
to write in what's called a CSW, a completed staff work, which presented what you wanted to do,
how you'd be doing it, and then say at the bottom line, this is okay. And if that was okay,
then you would present that CSW to the security guards at the gate, where there was iron gates
that opened electronically or closed, and they would either let you go or say, no, you can't go.
And you'd have to have somebody go with you. That's how it was. In other words,
I was trapped. Right. Okay, in some simple words. Now, this started wearing on me, but
when you're first in, and like I did the album with Edgar Winter, and I did other things that
were good, and I was working in the studio in a really nice environment, long hours,
long hours, and just a lot of duress, I figure I'm doing it for the good of all mankind.
That is a very forgiving attitude that I had as for being treated the way I was being treated,
because I figured if we get this technology out, it's going to help everybody who lives on this
planet. But as the years went by, and it's just become more draconian, I thought there's something
wrong with this. There's something wrong with what's going on now, and my life is becoming untenable.
I can't really live this way. And I would say to my wife, and she would say, run,
it's going to get better. I know it's going to get better. And I'd say, Becky, listen,
if there's a boulder running down the mountain, do you think that boulder is going to stop and return
and roll up the mountain? If things are going bad in something in an organization or in life,
and nothing is done to change it, things will continue to go bad or even get worse.
You see what I'm saying? Yeah.
Now, let's talk about quickly how much conversation goes on with the Sea Org members,
the people that you were interacting with. How much conversation is there about
the science fiction-y shit, like Zee New and his Galactic Confederacy and the volcano
Okay, I'm going to give you a nonverbal answer. What does that look like between my thumb and
my first finger? That looks like a zero. You got it. Nothing. If you're caught saying anything
about that, if you're at that level, and don't forget, that level is part of the operating
Satan, meaning a Satan is a spirit. Operating means you're operating as that spiritual being.
That's OT3. That's confidential. If two people are on it, even the person who was on it and you
are on it, you still don't talk about that to anybody, ever. And that's in like a rulebook
that Hubbard wrote? Absolutely. Absolutely. You don't discuss that with anybody. I mean, Hubbard
also wrote more science fiction than anybody in the history of the planet, right? I mean,
these people know this? Of course they do. Of course they do. And they don't get...
Well, wait a minute. I don't know if everybody in New York knows that,
but most people do, all right? Yeah, this dude wrote maniacal stories, just
complete fiction stories, you know, more of them than anybody. And how could you not tie the two
ideas together like, uh, maybe this Xenu shit and this hydrogen bomb that happened on this volcano
and aliens shuttling humans back and forth between other galaxies is... Maybe this is all horse shit.
That's true, but I'll tell you this. When I got on that level, and I did that level, by the way,
which level? O.T.3, what you're talking about. Yeah. When I first did it, I thought,
okay, here's the technology. This seems really odd, but I'm going to try it. But I thought to
myself, which I didn't tell this to anybody until after I left, I thought to myself, look,
here's a problem. This is going on on 76 nearby planets. The problem in this sector of the universe
is overpopulation, an average of 150 billion people per planet. And Xenu is this galactic warlord,
who now is going to, quote, handle this. There's a whole story that goes behind it. That's not
on the level when you get on it, but there was a book written on, called Revolt in the Stars,
called Revolt in the Stars, and he stole the money from tax people electronically.
But think about this. There's 150 billion people per planet. If you want to cut down the population,
what do you want to cut it down to? A hundred billion? That means you'd have to take 50 billion
people, not in their bodies, but even as spiritual beings, packed up in ice, in boxes,
in a spaceship that looked like a propeller plane back in the Second World War.
Did you show your pictures of it? Yeah, but here's the thing.
Logistically, it's impossible. How long would it take you to get 50 billion times 76
packed up spiritual beings to another planet? I guess it's so fucking out there that you don't
even use. But I thought that, though, and it was the one thing. It was the one thing I thought,
this can't be true, but I have to do this level. I can't say, hey, wait a minute. How the fuck did
he do this? I got it. You're overwhelmed with the drive and desire to succeed
and reach the next level. Not only that, you're overwhelmed with the fact
that you're going to get your fucking brains beaten if you bring up something like that.
I don't mean physically. Nobody would beat you in a hand like that with the club.
But I'm talking about you'd have to go to security, you'd be security check, you'd be
sequestered, and you'd spend the life being interrogated as what evil purposes do you have
against Elrond Hubbard? What evil purposes do you have against David McAvige? All these questions,
and you'd be on physical labor. If you questioned anything, that's what would happen.
If you questioned something of that magnitude, your days are over as far as ever doing that
level again, and there's still within you that possibility maybe something here is going to work
and give me something that I would really like to have, which would be to be a more
effective, powerful individual. I could help more people. The help button is a big deal.
It's a big deal with people in Scientology. A lot of them, when you first get in,
you want to help yourself. But then it comes that you want to help your fellow men,
and that's a driving force. I got to tell you, Danny, you see what I'm saying? You're tracking
with me. This is a real trap that you got yourself in, and you go along with it.
But if you're like, look, I'm over this bullshit. Be like, look, I've been here for 30 years.
I've risen through these ranks. I've donated all this money. You guys pay me 50 bucks a week.
I'm done. I'm going to go do something else. This is bullshit. I'm not going to stay here anymore.
It didn't happen that way with me, but do you want to hear how it happened?
Yeah. Or you have something else you want to ask before we get into that.
No, no, no. Yeah, I want to hear how you ended up leaving.
Okay. Well, here's what happened. As I said, I used to say to Becky, look,
this is terrible. There's some way we got to get out of here. Now, I was really
chancing something because in the C organization, they have what's called knowledge reports,
where if you tell this to your wife, she is duty bound to write a knowledge report on you
saying these things. And this happens to many people where the husband will say something to
the wife. She'll write a knowledge report and turn it into the ethics section.
And now you have to go through interrogation and everything.
I try to turn everybody into a snitch. It's exactly what it is. Tony Ortega calls it a
snitch culture. And it's exactly what it is. It's like in Germany,
Hitler's youth, the little kids used to write up their parents and Gestapo would come over and
and the kid I'm sure regretted it at that point, but the kids were indoctrinated into doing that
in Nazi Germany. So now this is going on and it's becoming more and more oppressive and
more and more rules are being done. And to the point where I don't know how the fuck I'm going
to live this way. Now, David gave me a Kindle as a present. I think it was a Christmas present.
As a matter of fact, it was a Christmas present and you're familiar with the Kindle. We went over
that, right? Yeah. A Kindle and I'm sure the people watching this knows, but it's an electronic form
to store books and you can read them. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Was your Kindle loaded up with
Elron Hubbard books? My Kindle was loaded up with all of Elron Hubbard science fiction books.
Whoa. Okay. And I don't know how we did it, but you got somebody to put it on there, which was
great because you can't do it. I don't think it's available on Amazon. So he had to get it put on
there. So anyway, the security guards are making a concentrated effort to get this Kindle away
from me. And I don't know why. And finally, I said to him, listen, I'm not giving you this Kindle.
David gave me this. Now, that backed him off totally because David's the chairman of the
board. He's like the supreme commander there. There's nobody above him. So they just backed off.
But I couldn't figure out why did they want to get this Kindle?
I mean, they wouldn't take it from me and use it for their own purposes. That would be
they must have cut their own throat if they did that. But anyway,
one night, I get home and I would get off a little bit early because I had an incident that
happened to me where I had heart palpitations for like 12 hours straight. And I went in to see a
doctor and he put a Holter monitor on me, which is a thing that detects your heartbeat. And at night,
sometimes my heartbeat go up to 138. So the doctor said, look, you got to drink less coffee,
don't smoke as much or quit smoking. And I got off an hour early to get extra rest.
It's necessary to tell you that because I'm home laying in bed and I'm reading my Kindle.
And Becky's not there. And everybody else is still working that extra hour.
So Anna Kindle, and I had the older one, which had a mechanical toggle switch
that if you press to the right, the cursor would go to the right. If you press to the left,
you go to the left, press up and go up and press down to get down. Now, one of the things that
was helpful in was this. If you ran across the word that you didn't understand the meaning of,
you could select that word, press the toggle switch to the right, and it would take you to
a dictionary and give you the definition. I'm reading, I run across this word, I select it,
I press toggle switch to the right. And for no reason at all, I kept it pressed to the right.
It went dictionary, internet. I was on the internet with no filter.
A complete mistake. Because on that base, if you went on the internet, there are filters on them.
You couldn't look at anything about miscavige, about Scientology. You could buy things that way.
You could buy clothing or whatever. Now, I'm on the internet with no filter.
And I thought, whoa. You know, I'm out of the pen. The dog's out of the pen. I'm going to go and
see what else is up. So what'd you find? Well, here's what I found. And it was the key thing
that probably was the tipping point, as you just mentioned. That expression I do like.
Because it was the tipping point. There was a person on that base named Annie Tidman.
Annie Tidman was one of those cometer's messengers that I talked about earlier.
And she was with Elrond Hubbard for all these years. And as a matter of fact, she and her husband
were the two people that were with him when he was traveling around in his
trailer, house trailer. So she was taking care of him. So she was a very loyal messenger of his.
Annie Tidman was on that base. She had to stay there. She couldn't leave the base
because she was considered to be a security risk. She developed cancer. So they sent her
to Los Angeles to get treatment for the cancer. And they sent a handler down with her,
which would also audit her, counsel her on one of the highest levels in Scientology.
I looked up her name. And up till this point, I would ask Martine, who was our medical liaison
officer, how is Annie doing? Because she was a good friend of mine. Oh, she's doing great,
Ronnie. Yeah, she's doing coming along really good. Okay, good. On the internet, she died six
months ago. I couldn't believe it. Almost as a fluke the next day, two girls are standing outside
our birthing compound. And they said to me, Ronnie, it's Annie's birthday. We're taking up a collection
for gifts for her. Do you want to contribute anything? And I looked at them and I thought,
I thought to myself, I didn't say anything. I thought they're either part of the scam
or they don't know anything about it. And they're being duped like I was duped. And I turned them
down. But that was the point that I knew I had to check the further things that were said about
Scientology. And I started looking at the internet, started looking at Elron Hubbard's war record,
which he was not a war hero at all. A lot of other things that he said and did. And it was that
point that when Becky came home, I said, Becky, we're getting out of here. And then we started
working on our plan to escape. Our plan to escape took us six months.
I didn't want to leave everything behind. And the way we worked it out is this. I was 76 years
old when we left, by the way, and it was on March 25th, 2012. On my 75th birthday, my wife, Becky,
got my daughters Denise and Laurie to send me 75 gifts. Some of the gifts were like a pen,
or it was some little trinket. The other was bigger, but I had these boxes of gifts. So the
security saw this. They saw that I got 75 gifts. So then we started sending out particles that we
had to her mother who was going to have a birthday. And they allowed it to go because
they thought, well, I got 75 gifts. I'm probably going to give her about 70 some gifts. You follow
me? So that's how we were able to get a lot of our belongings off that. Otherwise, I couldn't put
everything in a car. So then it's coming down to the day that we're going to leave. And I get up
at seven o'clock that morning. We have breakfast at nine o'clock. It's a Sunday. And prior to that,
what I had done on every Sunday morning from months is I would get in my car and I would drive
across from the southern part of the base through the gate to the northern part, come back and go
into the studio, which in the studio, there was a refrigerator. And I always had maybe Italian salami,
some provolone cheese, some brie, all kinds of fancy little things that I would store there.
And I'd come through the main gate and I'd give these treats to the security guards every Sunday
morning. So basically what I was doing was feeding the watchdogs and getting them used to the fact
that I'd be going to the north side of the property every Sunday morning to get a treat before
breakfast. So now we're coming to the day that we're going to get out of there. And by the way,
the night before, I have a bag full of shoes and a mesh bag. And I'm putting it in my car. And one
of the security guards drove by, looked at me doing this, didn't even mention it. And I'll tell you why.
My cover was this. I was 76 years old. Nobody thought I would ever leave. And I was the father
of the chairman of the board. And those two things were the best cover I had for our plan being executed.
And going into effect. Now, comes the day we're leaving. We go out to the car.
I had a little notebook, which I still have. And I marked in there all the things we're taking
and the things we're leaving. And there are two gates on the lower side of the property. The main
gate where the security guards are is as like a booth in it where the security is and they have
infrared things where they can look all over the base and just all kinds of electronics equipment
to see if anybody's trying to get out or get in. And there's another gate called the west gate,
which is west of that about 150 yards down the road. And all it is, it's a gate that there's a
camera on that they can you buzz, you press a button, they look at you through that camera.
And then if you hear the gate go, Bob, it's opening, and they'll just open the gate for you.
Or if they want to question you, they'll say, well, come up to the main booth.
So now we're in the car and there's, I know this because I've planned this out.
On Sunday morning, there are only two security guards on duty. Jrgen is in the main booth
and Sal is in the chase car. When I say a chase car, it's actually like a van
that this guy has and he uses it to chase people if they try to escape.
But Sal is down at the place where we have breakfast, which is about 50 yards away from the main
booth. I know this because the chase car is parked outside that building. So I thought,
okay, this is going to work. Meanwhile, my heart is in my throat. I get up to the gate.
I press the button. He didn't even ask me a question. He just opened up the gate.
He just opened up the gate. I slowly pulled out, said to Becky, we're turning left, Becky.
I turned left, pedaled in a metal, got it up to about 75 miles an hour because it was one
mile down the road. There are three decisions you have to make. If you turn right, you can go to
route 10, which will take you to LA. If you go straight, it'll take you to route 60, which takes
you to LA. If you turn left, you go into the town of Hammett. I knew that when Sal came there,
he would figure, I'm probably going to go turn right to get on 10, to get on the main highway.
That's probably what he did. I don't know what he did, but once I turned left,
it's a straight mile shot before you get into Hammett. Once I got into Hammett,
I turned right and we were free. That trip across the United States took me almost three days.
I paid for gas, paid for food. We stayed in a motel two nights. Everything was paid with cash
because if I used my credit card, they would check, they would got me. They would have a
way to know where I was. They would fly people out to where I probably would be and they would
have seized me and taken me back and Becky. How much cash had you saved, making 50 bucks a week?
Well, I was at a point where I was getting an amount of social security, so I was getting that
also because of my age, but a very small amount because I spent 26 and a half years on staff
and they pay almost on 50 bucks. What do they pay in social security?
You get a W2 for that? Was that like accounted for?
Yeah, you can see. For the year, $2,500.
Wow, man. You can't do shit with $2,500 a year. I don't understand.
I figure most people would just
quit so much earlier after making that kind of money. Okay, this is great. Scientology is
wonderful. It teaches you all these great things, but you're making $2,500 a year. How could that
justify making such a small amount of money? Because your mind is conditioned into thinking
what you're doing is helping every man, woman, and child on the planet.
Danny, you don't know that state of mind unless you're in it. There was a group
at one point way back, maybe in the 60s, called the Peace Corps. Do you ever hear that?
Yeah. Okay, these guys got pittances, but they did it because they figured they're helping all of
men and they probably were to some degree, but with Scientology, they talk about clearing the
planet. They haven't cleared a fucking cul-de-sac yet. You know what I'm saying?
But your mind is set. You get people on who've been in it for years. They'll all tell you a
similar story. So what was your plan? What was your plan? You got on the highway and you
drove across the country, you and your wife. What was your guys' plan and what happened?
What did those guys do once they realized that you were missing?
Well, I'm sure the shit hit the fan because for me to leave, that was a terrible thing
that because I would be considered a really sensitive particle or a security risk. What was
my plan? I wanted to live my life in freedom. That's what I wanted to do. I wanted to get
in communication with my two daughters and my grandchildren and see them and maybe go back to
playing my horn again or there's exercise devices I was selling. I could do that and
just enjoy life. That's all it was. Did you anticipate them hunting you down after this?
Oh yeah. I know they'd come after me, but I didn't know when. But it wasn't for maybe about almost
two weeks that I'm sitting in my wife's mother's place. By the way, you know this is my second
marriage. I'm married to a much younger woman and we're sitting in her mother's place and her
mother has like a split level home and I look out the back window in the kitchen and there's
this person, Marion Powell, walking around trying to look through the windows. So I go outside and
there's Greg Wilher and Marion Powell who had come out to salvage me, to bring me back and they're
trying to be jolly and funny and then saying, oh Ron, it's so funny because we thought you're
going to go to Florida. We never thought you'd come here, but here we are. And I said, Greg,
listen, I'm not going back. I mean, that was a terrible fucking life I lived so you can just
cool it. And then he pulls out this bulletin and he said, you blew. Now, blow is in other words
for leave without authorization. Okay. And in that technical bulletin, listen to this, Danny.
It says the only reason that a person blows is because they have committed harmful acts
to the group that they're a part of. So they want to remove themselves from the group
so they don't continue harming it. It doesn't say anything about you could be living such
a miserable fucking life that you take anything except staying in that group and that's why
you're left. It doesn't say anything about that. It says that it's your fault that you left because
you've been hurting the group and now you want to get away from it, not to hurt the group anymore.
Does that make sense to you? Oh yeah. I mean, how convenient for them.
Exactly. You're a danger. That's the only reason you could have left. There's no reasonable
explanation for you to leave. You've got it entirely. I don't have to tell you another word
about that. But I will tell you, they hung around and they started calling me every day and they
never answered the call. And so after about a month, we went to visit my son Ronnie down in
Virginia. And when I came back, I went to the motel that they were staying at and the car
was gone so they had left. They didn't want to go back because they had to go back until
David. Listen, we didn't get him. And at that point, you're in deep trouble. Very deep trouble.
So now, a year goes by. This is 2013 now. I purchased a house in West Alice where I'm talking
to you from right now. And across the street, one night, there's a guy over there looking in the
windows of a house that's for sale. The next door neighbor calls the cops and says, Listen,
there's some guy looking in the windows of this house that's up for sale. I think you might be a
drug dealer. Out comes the West Alice police, primarily a guy by the name of Nick Pie, who at
that point, he was a detective. And he confronted the guy and said, What are you doing? The guy
says, What am I breaking law? What am I doing wrong? He says, Well, I'm just asking you what
you're doing. You're looking at this house. And the guy says, You know, you started giving him a
bunch of crap. Now, I don't know where he had the guts to do that because Nick Pie is built like
an NFL linebacker. It looks like he can bench press 400 pounds and he actually can. Okay.
So Nick Pie says, Listen, I'll tell you what, you're under arrest. Can I look in your car?
The guy says, Sure. Nick goes and looks in the trunk of this van, which has blacked out windows.
And in the trunk of that van is five license plates from five different states, five handguns,
a stun gun, two rifles, one fitted up with a silencer and 2000 rounds of ammunition.
What the fuck? Yeah. And by the way, just for your viewers and anybody else,
on my website, therealronmiscavage.com, you can go there and hear the entire interrogation that
Nick Pie and Ricky Hankins, who was a tobacco alcohol and firearms agent, you can hear the
actual interrogation of Dwayne Powell and his son, Daniel Powell. They were a father and son team.
And here the thing I'm starting to tell you right now, they can hear this actual interrogation.
Now, it turned out that they were getting paid $10,000 a week to follow me.
And they had, they had to follow me from eight in the morning to eight o'clock at night.
And then if I went out after that, they still have to work.
On the, upon the interrogation, once Dwayne Powell knew that he was in deep caca,
he started singing like a canary. And he said, listen, we had no, meant the man, no harm. And
we use these for target shooting. And he was indicted though, by the way, by the,
by an Eastern Wisconsin court. And the church, probably the church, because I don't think he'd
have the money to do it, send up an attorney from Chicago that got him on five years probation.
But anyway, as part of that interrogation, they mentioned a scene that happened
in a local supermarket that I was shopping for groceries. And this was the summertime.
And I had a pocket t-shirt on and I come out to the car, had groceries in the car,
opened the back door and was going to put the groceries in. And I bent over to do that. And
I thought my cell phone was going to fall out of my pocket. So I grabbed my left chest with my
right hand. These PIs are in the van. Of course, I didn't know that at the time. They saw me.
And the father says to the son, it looks like he's having a heart attack. I should call him
and see what we should do. So Dwayne called in and a guy come on the phone by the name of Greg.
And Greg said, listen, I'll get somebody on the phone for you. Within minutes,
another person got on the phone, identified himself as David Miscavige and said, listen,
if it's his time to die, let him die. Don't intervene. Don't do anything.
And at that point, when they hung up, the son said, listen, at that point, we know if this
ever happened because it looked like I didn't have a heart attack, he says, I'm calling 9-11.
I don't give a fuck what this guy said. I just can't believe he said that.
So now I get a call in Whitewater. This is prior to me knowing about this.
And actually, I didn't get a call. I'm sorry. Whitewater police came to the door and said,
listen, I want to tell you, you've been being followed by members of the Church of Scientology
for the last year. And we just like to tell you this, and could you come out? We want to check
your car out for something. So they said, okay, well, the West Dallas police want you to take
your car up to them, and they're going to check it out for a GPS. So I took it there. You know
what a GPS is, right? It's a tracking device. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So we took it there. They took it
in the police garage, and Nick Pie is in there, and the guy's up checking under the wheel wells.
And on the right rear, he brought me over and said, you see those scratches?
That's where the GPS was. Because when you take it out, it's highly magnetized. It'll scratch the
metal. So now, Nick Pie said to me, okay, so these guys are following you. Do you have any idea why
they were following you? I says, well, Nick, I'm the father of the chairman of the board of the
Scientology. So they might be following me thinking that maybe I'm going to go to the
media or the press or something, and I have no intention of doing that. And the other reason
is this, I've had some heart problems, and maybe my son was a little bit concerned about me.
Did your lights just go out? Can you hear me? Oh, no, yeah, it just got like super dark in there,
but it's fine now. Yeah, it looked like there was a little malfunction of something. I don't know
what the hell it was. Okay. Yeah. Sorry, sorry to interrupt. That's okay. So getting back to what
Nick said, he said, do you have any idea why they're following you? And I said, well, I'm the chairman
of the board of the church of science. I'm the father of the chairman of the board. And they
considered me a sensitive particle that I might go to the press or whatever. And also, maybe my son
is a little concerned with me because I've had some health problems with my heart. And he looked at
me and he said, listen, I don't know how to tell you this, but I'm going to have to. Look.
And he told me the story. He said, your son, when you were at all these putting stuff in the car,
the PI is called and said, it looks like you're a target that's referred to me as having a heart
attack. Your son come on the line and said, if it's just time to die, let him die, don't intervene,
don't do anything. Now, when he told me that, that kind of changed my universe.
First of all, I couldn't believe it. And it's just, even to this day,
there's that little inkling of, is this true? And it is true. He did say it.
Have you ever asked him about it? I called. I tried to get in touch with him. By the way,
he has not spoken to me since I left. I called to get in touch with him and turned to you,
got on the phone and he wouldn't let me talk to him. And I said, listen, here's what I want you
to do. Just get these PIs off my ass. Don't have anybody follow me. And he said, Ronnie,
you knew this was going to be the case when you joined up. I said, no, I didn't. Mike,
if somebody would told me, if you join, you're going to live a sequestered life on a compound.
Your mail is going to be read before you send it. You can't get mail in unless it's checked out.
You can't make a phone call. You can't leave that compound. I would have said,
fuck you, I'm not going to do this. I know I didn't know it was going to be that.
But that situation itself kind of changed my universe in thinking how he feels about me.
Because at that point, his power and being exposed for something like that,
and a convenient way to have me out of his life would be probably like the best solution in his
mind, you know? Yeah, it's terrible. But why don't you think, I mean, what don't you think
there's a possibility of one day your son just coming to grips with reality and just being like,
look, let me at least repent for some of the damage I've done to this world and get rid of the
policies, these crazy disconnection and fair game policies where if somebody leaves Scientology or
questions Scientology, our purpose from now on is to destroy that person's life. That's such an
evil thing to do. Like, don't you think there's a possibility your son could just be like,
maybe we should just get rid of that shit. Let's get rid of all the Xenu Galactic Confederacy
horseshit. And let's just make this a positive thing. We have our tax exemption. At least I'll
be able, you know, I don't know, maybe he'll be able to sleep at night. Maybe he'll be able to
make up for some of the damage he's done. If you could rethink this thing.
Danny, I agree with you. As a matter of fact, by the way, did you ever get to the end of my book?
I know you're going to get it. No, I didn't. I didn't get to the end of it yet. No. Okay, you'll
see in the end. Well, I'll tell you what I say at the end. And my thinking on it is this.
I don't know if it could be salvaged, but if there was a possibility of it being salvaged,
they'd have to do several things. One of them would be get rid of all the disconnection policies.
Okay. Number one, number two, give a general amnesty, which means anybody who you feel has
done something bad against you, they're forgiven. And there's no questions about it. You'll wipe the
slate clean. It's like a pardon. Okay. And number three, only sell products or services that you
can deliver an end result. In other words, those lower bridge products. Because truthfully, if
that would have happened in the beginning, when Scientology started, just the things that worked,
like the communications course, the lower level, two-way communication with somebody that you
feel better about it after you're done, I thought I think it would have been a great
self-health group as it stands now. They don't shoot themselves in the foot with a 22. They
shoot themselves in the foot with a shotgun. There's no turning around right now. If they would do
what you just said, that would be wonderful. Tanya, I tell you, I have almost no hope of it
happening. I swear to God, I wish it would happen. And I wish my daughters would come to the censors
and say, Hey, listen, we're going to talk to you, dad. And everybody who's been disconnected from
a family who's in the church, and they're not really a church because the one common denominator
about other religions is that they have compassion for their fellow man.
Let me ask you this. If you had a gun to your head right now, and somebody said,
I need you to get ahold of your daughters and your son, and have a conversation with them
about this, what would you do? I couldn't get in touch with them. They wouldn't allow the call to
go through. I've already tried. I was in New York City doing an interview with 2020 from Australia,
and I called the organization, and I wanted to speak to David Miscavige. They put me on hold,
and I would have been on hold forever. If I call my daughter Denise, I don't get through. Their lines
are blocked to me. I can't speak to them. I went down there. Danny, after I got this interrogation
on a CD, what these guys said, I went down to Florida with my wife. We drove down when we were
about 20 miles within the city limit. We had three private investigators start following us.
I went to my daughter Lori's house. No answer at the door. I went to Denise's house. Her husband
came to the door. I said, I want to speak to Denise. He said, well, you can. You've got to handle it
with the church. I said, Jerry, come on. This is a waste of fucking time. I'm not going to get any
place with that. We spoke for about 20 minutes. You won't even let me in the house. I said,
what does this mean, Jerry? He said, well, tell what it means, Ron. Denise and I are through with
you and Becky forever. It was at that point that I decided I'm writing a book. That was the point.
Prior to that, all I wanted to do was get on with my life, get back in communication with my daughters,
and enjoy life. At that point, I figured I've got to do something. And as you know, and the book is
called Ruthless, it was number one on the New York Times bestseller list on May 6th, 2016,
when it came out. And it was number one for the month of June of the nonfiction books.
Even Darth Vader, even Darth Vader at one point, when his son, when Luke was getting
electrocuted by the emperor, found some, a little seed of love for his son at the end of the movie.
Like there's something deep buried deep and down that connection with your son. Like,
don't you ever think of like your kid, like, think of David when he was like a young kid,
one or two or three years old. And like, that kid's still in there.
I'll tell you, of course I do. And even now, I mean, people want me to condemn him and throw him
in hell and just say to the fucking guys, no good, he should go to jail. I can't generate that much
hate for him. I just can't do it. You have a child. And now, if it's a psychopath, it's a little
different because a psychopath has no conscience. They have no care for anybody. But when you have
a child and you see this new person that you're brought into, you help bring into life, that's
a love that is just, it's overwhelming. It's something else. And I can't say, oh, I hope the
fucker is this or does that. I just can't generate that much hate. And you'll see at the end of the
book where I say the finale here, I'm not going to say it on a program. If people want to know, they
should, they should get it and read it because I think it's a very fair book. And I wrote it from
the viewpoint of not a vindictive or I'm going to get you bastards, but I wanted to tell a story.
How you can get involved in something that you think is going to be something great. And it turns
out, when I say not too good, that's being very gracious. It turns out pretty goddamn bad because
you can end up losing your family, your friends, and a good portion of your life to a cause that
can't be backed up by what they say it can do. I mean, that's, I think, Scientology over promises
and under delivers. And I'm being very gracious when I just say that, because I've met these
people who have done these highest levels and they can't do any of the superhuman things that
they said you're going to gain when you get to that level. What is it that they say that you can
actually do when you're at the top level? Well, they used to advertise this. I don't know if they
do anymore. They used to say that when you get that you are at cause over life and you can operate
independent of your body. In other words, you could have an out of body experience as an example
and go and read the newspapers in Germany while you're sitting here in the United States.
Whoa. Did they ever teach you how to do that? There's techniques that are in the books.
Nobody, listen, I was around for 42 years. I didn't meet one person who achieved it.
Well, can you give me an example of a technique to get your spirit outside of your body?
Well, it's in a book called creation of human ability. Be on the moon, be on Mars, be on the
moon, be on earth, you know, ride, just imagination things. You're imagining these things, but
you're supposed to think you're actually doing it in life. So I just sit here and I imagine
that I'm in Germany reading a newspaper. Well, no, in that case, when it comes to that point,
if you were to achieve the ability to exteriorize from your body and be in Germany,
you would be there as the life force, the spirit that you are. Because I don't know if you believe
this, but it's not critical to this discussion we're having. You are a spirit. You are a living
spirit. You're occupying a body. You as a spirit are the thing that is the life.
That life could go to Germany and actually read the newspaper and tell somebody in the United
States what it said. That ability is touted as being possible, even in the books like creation
of human ability. But on that level in those days, earlier on, days to see, you would achieve
exterior with full perception. Wow. So you would feel like you were actually there,
even though your cadaver wouldn't be there. Exactly. Exactly. Are you sure no one's ever done it?
I never met anybody. I never met anybody. And I was there with the guy, listen to this,
who did that level. And this is bullshit, but I'm going to tell it. You're supposed to be at
cause over mental energy and even matter energy space and time. In other words, over the universe.
We are going to go in the room. This is when I was in the C organization and the door is locked
and there's another person with us. And the other person says, well, look, set to this guy,
you're OTA. Why don't you just use your powers to open the door? And he says, no, no, I will never
do it. I did it one time and a person saw it. They got very sick. I'm never going to do it again.
That's horseshit, man. He couldn't do it. Whoa. But they would make excuses, you know,
as to why they were not doing it. And even L. Ron Hubbard gave them a convenient excuse.
He said, now listen, before you start reading rota gravure, and that's another word for printed
stuff. You know the word rota gravure? I think it referred to
print in a newspaper. He said, before you start reading rota gravure in another area,
be careful because you're going to need a lot of backup. In other words, you might get attacked
by alien beings if you do this. So wait until a lot of people achieve this level before you start
doing it. So that gives people an excuse who've done the level to not do it and have it justified
because L. Ron Hubbard said not to do it. Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, man, listen,
I wish I were fucking lying to you. Okay. I mean, I wish I were telling a fucking lie, but boy,
I happen to be telling you the truth, Danny. I happen to be telling you the truth. And I have a
friend, not a good friend, but a friend. And he achieved OTA, had a massive heart attack,
and then he was in a hospital in a coma for six months. Fuck. People get on that level. They
died just like everybody else does from various diseases. There's no difference. And if you get
the right treatment, and I don't know, maybe you pray to God, maybe you'll live longer, but
it's not going to be done by doing the Scientology upper levels. It's just
they're not truthful. And boy, I'm being very gracious when I say that. What they want more
than anything is your money. They want your money and they want your loyalty and back them up,
do everything to help them out. Don't create any bad PR. That's bad. If you create bad public
relations, you're a bad man, you know? Do you think Tom Cruise or John Cervolto will ever be like,
you know what? Fuck this. I'm out. I think the possibility of that happening would be
about the same as a penguin coming in a room where I'm sitting right now and playing an alto
saxophone. That's not too likely, but the possibility of that happening might be just about the same
as them saying, fuck this. I'm out. The penguin is wearing a corduroy jacket.
No, I don't think you could get the jacket on. You'd be holding the sacks in his hands, you know?
Oh, true. But look it. I don't know how they would do it. They don't have to eat a lot of
crow. Listen, I do, in addition to the interviews, I do what I call life lessons. I do story time.
There's a little exercise apparatus I discovered, and I do this for my fellow veterans because it's
inexpensive and you can work out with it. And I try to do helpful things. And one of the things
on life lessons, I tell, what is the hardest thing you'll ever do? And I already told you this.
Do you remember what I said it was? No, what was it? Admit you are wrong. Oh, yeah.
People can't do it. They can't do it. If you could, I will tell you it will change your life
because I remember when Fernando Gamboa, good friend of mine, really a nice individual, great
drummer too. He was in the C organization with me. He left a lot earlier. One day we're talking,
and this is a couple years ago, more than a couple years ago, and he said, come on, Ronnie,
let's admit it. We were conned. When I got off the phone, I went into the hallway of my house,
which I have a full-length mirror, and I looked at myself in the mirror and I said, hey, Ron,
you were conned. You were wrong. At that point, my life started changing quite a bit.
I could look at myself and say, okay, now, here's what I thought. That was wrong. I got conned.
I accepted it. It was my doing. I didn't justify why I was wrong, like if you were to say, well,
I was wrong. Yeah, but the reason I was wrong, no, you haven't admitted it at that point.
Wow, the irony. The irony from staring in the mirror, getting your headache out of your
body to staring in the mirror, telling yourself you were conned. You've come full circle.
I came full circle, Danny, and I'm going to tell you something.
I think the highest level of operating Satan is where you are now.
Let me tell you, Danny, I got to give you credit. I never thought about it until you just said it
to me. I got to give you credit, man. That's funny. I got to give you credit. That is,
but when you're in it, sometimes it's hard, but you're right. I came full circle.
You did. Well, hey, man, we're at two hours, so let's wrap it up. Can you tell the audience
listening where they can find your book, where they can find your web, everything about you,
if they want to do some more research on you? Okay. If you go to therealronmiscavage.com,
you will get my website, and you'll know it's the right one. If when it comes up, it says right
across the top, it must stop. And there's a guy sitting on a bench in front of a body of water.
That's my website. I tell you that because the church a while ago bought 500 variations of my
name, and if you put in the wrong one and not therealronmiscavage.com, it'll take you to their
hate sites. On that website, you will see all of my YouTube shows. You'll see the interrogation that
the West Alice police did with the two private investigators who were following me. You can
listen to that. You can see there's a link there to get my book. You can just go to Ruthless. I've
also done two humorous books. One's called True Confessions of a Kid, and the other one's called
Hideouts for Midgets on the Lamb. They're just humorous books. I did it for laughs. You can get
those on there too, and you can see the 2020 interview. Other interviews I've done, and you
can learn about me, and I appreciate it if you would, and get yourself educated and enlightened.
There's over 90 interviews I've done with people who have been abused by the church.
Danny, I got to tell you, thank you very much for having me on. You're a very, very nice person,
and you gave me the realization that I never had, and I did come full circle.
I appreciate you. It's a fucking 10. No, I'm telling you, man. It's a 10.
That's great, man. Well, I appreciate you for doing this as well, and I'll
include your links below. Okay, buddy. All right, take care. Bye-bye.
