Welcome, John. Glad to be here. Cheers. Righto. Thanks for coming here from
Puerto Rico. Yeah, and thanks for the really good drink. One of us has got
bourbon with a little ice and one of us, you know, has other. Yeah, I got four
pieces of ice with a little less bourbon. I'm not a bourbon
aficionado like yourself. Oh, okay. Well, that's a good excuse then. I'll go with that.
So you are a financial expert, a tax accountant. You can teach you can teach
me how to get rich. I can teach you how to keep your money. So I'm a tax lawyer
first, a tax accountant, second, and an investor third. And that's probably
about my order of competence. I'm good at finding deals. I have not always been
real good at finding the proper partners with those deals. And the practice
keeps me so busy that it's got to be passive. So I like ideally when I
invest, I find the deal. And just because almost all my clients are real
estate investors, I got a list across the nation, I hear about things. Add to it
since I moved to Puerto Rico, you got a lot of hedge fund guys there. Mm hmm.
You know, one of the deals I'm investing in that how did I meet the guy? He was
up on the balcony kind of like Juliet only not smoking a cigar. I had a
cigar. I look up and I'm like, you got a cigar? I got a cigar. And he's like,
well, come on up and let's have another cigar. Never didn't know the guy. We
get the chatting. He moved there. He sold us tech company in California starts
a small hedge fund. And this was before he even had partners. And we just
started BSing because it was a love fest. I'm looking at him with these huge
eyes because I've never been inside a hedge fund. It's a little one. But just
how they find deals, how they think, how they do things. That's fascinating to
me. I'm used to dealing with just straight real estate investors who are
creative enough and do enough interesting stuff. And then he in turn had
never really dealt with self directed IRAs 401ks, ways for people to invest
tax free through their pension plan. And what really caught his attention is
people can use those accounts to invest in your hedge fund. And he's like, No,
they can't. They're at my friends are at Microsoft. They got these huge 401ks and
it can only be invested in the market or Microsoft. And I'm like, Yeah, there's
ways to get that money out into a 401k that self directed, and they can invest
in your thing. Well, that caught isn't that caught his interest real quick. So
we since become buddies. I mean, personal friends. And I'm now I optimized one of
his little tiny funds to invest with IRAs helped bring some money in fact, we're
getting ready to pull the trigger on that. So you meet some neat people. So what
am I good at? I'm good at legally sticking the government with their own
rules when it comes to taxes. I got this odd attitude, because evidently in 2020
America, it's a strange attitude. I think if you earn it, you should be able to
keep most of it. I don't think taken 50% of your income or even a third of your
incomes right. So morally, I like what I do. I like complicated games. I got an
alpha in me, I like to win. I'm the kid back before computers. We had those
big board games where you would recreate the battle of the bulge with 500
little paper cardboard pieces on the board made by a company called Avalon
Hill. I love that. I like winning. So the code for me is a game. I want to win. And
finally, you know, it pays well. So that's what I'm good at. So why did you
originally move to Puerto Rico? And what were you doing before you moved? All
right, so we moved to Puerto, let's start with before. Yeah, grew up in Youngstown,
Ohio, which is like the Sopranos without the good restaurants, huge mob presence,
great Sicilian food, lots of union corruption. Not a lot of jobs there
anymore. It's a place in decline. It's the kind of place Bruce Springsteen or
Billy Joel would sing about. Move to Columbus at 18 to go get my degree, did
business, undergrad finance and accounting, did law school there as well. Lot
more jobs in Columbus, Ohio than Youngstown, Ohio. So I was there for,
well, let's see, roughly 48 years and then moved to Puerto Rico about 18
months ago. Why? There are two reasons. And a third one has grown on me to
stay. The first reasons it's one of the biggest tax breaks ever. So my tax rate
on my practice, my practice is virtual. My clients are all over the country. It's
all federal income tax and asset protection. It's all done over the phone
or the internet. So I can practice from anywhere. The original plan was when the
final child presently I have three kids and the youngest one presently carries
the title worst child, capital W, capital C. We actually have a trophy that you
are officially the worst child. And that's the youngest. Yeah. Yeah. And she's
very proud of this, by the way. Because for a long time, the middle one had
that for a long time and she was really pleased to take it away from him. When
the worst child went to school, that's when we knew we could move somewhere.
The original plan since my practice is virtual, six months in Germany, six
months in Argentina, six months in Colombia, six months in the UK. Just
go and be a nomad and get to know things and see things. But then I went on a
cruise to Puerto Rico and I found about this tax break they got. If you and
this is this is really simplified, but if you export goods or services. So in my
case, I'm exporting services. My clients are in the States. They all pay me from
the States, but I perform the service in Puerto Rico. I live there. That's where I
do my billable hours and all that sort of thing. My tax rate, federal, state and
local combined, all of it is about 6% flat. So we're saving a stupid amount of
money. That was the first reason to move there. The second reason, my wife is a
Chilean, so a Latina. And with Latinas, they're very passionate, which is really
great if they're happy. If they're not, yeah, if they're not, I mean, she
explicitly mentioned to me, this Lorena Bobbit, she was an amateur. Do you know
why? They were able to fix him. They will not be able to fix you. So it's kind of
like, all right, I kind of know where I stand here, better keep her happy. And
it's our joke. And when we go back and forth, I grew up with a Latin mom. I
speak Spanish, so I get the drill. But bottom line, happy wife, happy life.
Absolutely. And so what did she tell me once the little one goes off to
college? There are two things I want. I want to go somewhere where there is
Spanish and there is not snow. Yes, dear. So that was, you know, really the
other she she went there. She's an artist. She does sculpture. So opposites
attract. I'm as squared doll of a nerd as you can possibly get. I mean, I'm a
text lawyer. She's an artist and utterly like even by Latin female standards of
swirling vortex of chaos. And it works. Right. I can't marry me. I would kill
me. Yeah, you got the yin and yang, right? Yeah, so it works. So she's happy. She's
going to this great art school in old San Juan, where we live. She can walk to
school. She's happy. Life is good. The third reason. So we move there for two
reasons. I'll tell you the other thing that stuck with me. They're just something
special. Maybe it's the Caribbean. Maybe it's that island. People have so much
fun. And they're so kind. It's I don't know if it's in the air. It's the
people. It's the water. There's just this mix where you de stress. And I can't
tell you how much that's worth how happy I am. The networking there in terms of
professional like this hedge fund guy, you meet all sorts of interesting people
who are there the way I am. But you also just meet a lot of plain fun people
that are fun to be around and you relax and you enjoy life. And I hear the
cliche about Latin America or the Caribbean. And the reason you call it a
cliche is there's no better way to put it. But it's true. No less than it's a
cliche. It's still true. And so if they took the tax break away, I'll bet you
I'd still be there six months of the year. We like it that much. Yeah, it's a
different vibe when you're there. There's a different feeling in the air when
you're on an island like that, especially in the Caribbean, when you got, you
know, the beautiful blue water, just just being there. It's just a completely
different feel and a different way of life. Something about it. You can't
really put words to. But it's there. And what I like about Puerto Rico, it's one
of the bigger islands. So here's a significant relevant. It wouldn't sound
like it. It sounds trite, but it's not. There was enough people there, three
and a half million. There's a lot to do. There are three cost codes on the island.
Now, if you've ever lived somewhere where you don't have, you know, the spoiled
American retail luxury, because we live in consumer paradise. And to have a
little piece of that consumer paradise still there as compared to because
people can do this, for example, on St. Thomas. But St. Thomas is what like
30,000 people if that. And there's a lot of stuff there. They just plain don't
have. So what I like also is the critical mass, the size of the island
means that most of the stuff like I miss whole food. I like whole food, just
good stuff, solid, clean, and I like clean eating. That's harder to find
there. So it's not the same as being here. But there's enough that it works.
Right. Absolutely. So when did this tax law come about in Puerto Rico? When did
they put that into place? So Puerto Rico put it in place in 2012. You got two
components. You got U.S. law, and then you got Puerto Rican law, and they have
to work together. So the U.S., I don't know when they did. It's internal
revenue code section 933 says that if you're a bonafide permanent resident,
essentially a full time resident of a U.S. territory, Guam, Puerto Rico, St.
Thomas, whatever, you pay that government instead of the feds for any money you
earn there. And the idea is that since they're not states, we're going to give
them an upside that states don't get. So there's a downside. They're not a state.
For example, I don't get to vote in the upcoming election. I'm still going to
send money, right? I want my guy to be able to buy votes or at least rent them.
What do you mean by that?
Oh, campaign contributions. Oh, campaign contributions. He was just here.
Trump was just here two weeks ago. Yeah, it was a hundred grand a handshake.
You know, worth it, right? You know, the man's would you have done it?
No, not for a hundred grand. I could get a lot of satisfaction for, well, let's
not talk about that. You know, when I was young, that sort of thing was on paper
and now it's on the internet. But I digress.
So back to 933, what they said was, so your territories aren't states. And
there's some downsides to that. But we're going to give you an upside. We're
going to try and balance this out and be fair. Your people don't pay federal tax.
Instead, you can tax at federal rates or even higher on your island and your
territory. So Puerto Rico has its own tax system and most of the people there
pay no federal tax. That's section 933. Why is that good for me? Because if you
just move to Puerto Rico, what you're going to find is, and I'm sorry to say
this, I love Puerto Ricans, except for one thing, their politics, their warm.
They are aggressively friendly. They want to be your friend and they're good at it.
But their politics are horrible. They don't call it socialism, but that's
what it is. If you want to see what the U.S. will look like if we continue down
that path, just go to Puerto Rico. We can talk about that. For example, they got
the equivalent of section eight, what we call in Puerto Rican Spanish,
they put it in all the nice neighborhoods. And by the way, there's
HUD regulations to do exactly that that Obama passed at the last minute just
before Trump took office, which is a normal democratic trick. You put in
regulations that are unpopular at the last minute. So the guy that comes
next has to enforce stuff that nobody likes and he takes the heat if he
enforces it. And then if he repeals it, you can say he hates poor people, which
is what they're saying. So these regulations would give HUD control over
the suburbs. They would take over zoning and they would require a certain
amount of high density housing. That's a euphemism for low income in section
eight. Let me tell you how that worked out in Puerto Rico, because they had
the same idea. They did this in the fifties. They built the projects, the
caserios, and they said it's going to help the poor people to put them in
rich neighborhoods. No, you screwed up the whole island. There's crime
everywhere. You don't really have, I mean, it's so block by block there. You
can have a really nice house or neighborhood or block. And then a
block later, you've got projects in ghetto. And some of the social justice
people think that's a great idea. Come down and live it. You can't go
anywhere at night without paying attention. There are a couple places
that you can go. Now, you get used to it. So do I know where to go? Yeah. And
I also know the look, what some of the security guys would call. I'm always
Code Yellow. I'm never Code White in Puerto Rico at night. During the day,
you're fine. You can go anywhere. At night, you're Code Yellow. You pay
attention to what's going on, where you are. And that's in San Juan. Once you
get out in the country, like anywhere else, there are less issues. But if you
want to see what it's like to put quote unquote, let's use the euphemism,
let's be polite. The low, the high density housing, if you want to force
that into the nice suburbs, it doesn't uplift the poor. It screws up the
area. It screws up crime. It may not be PC politically correct. It is
factually correct. And anyone who wants to come see it, I can walk them by
the projects at night and see how they feel about that. They're going to get
real uncomfortable and edgy. So there is a downside. Crime rates there are
pretty high. You do have to watch yourself. You got to know what you're
doing and where to go. Thank God, I live in a tourist area on purpose, where if
a tourist gets mugged, the government loses money. And so when it's about
their money, you're damn right that there are police everywhere. Nobody gets
mugged in Old San Juan. That's very rare to see crime there. And that's one
reason we're there. But everywhere else, you kind of have to watch yourself. So
it's not perfect. It's not paradise. It has its issues.
So how do you deal with your clients and how do you conduct business? You
have, I assume you have employees in Puerto Rico. Do you have an office with
employees? Let me back up and answer your question. Because I just wander. Stream
of consciousness, ADD, entrepreneur. Bourbon will do that. Yeah, what's going
to do a lot more of that. I already start pretty ADD. So Puerto Rico has
normally a really bad tax system. That's why I call them socialists. For us up
here, the federal tax bracket of 33%, you got to make around 250-300
grand to be in that bracket. Down there, it's 60 grand. They jam you into that
bracket. So you don't want to live there as a normal person. But if you go under
one of the incentive programs, and there are several I'm not mentioning, I have
them under two. One of them says, my exportation of my written material, my
webinars that I sell, plus my exporting my services, as long as I'm not
competing with locals, that's their point. They don't want me to compete with
Puerto Rican lawyers. They want me to sell to clients the Puerto Rican lawyers
wouldn't get anyway. So as long as I export all my services, I get a special
rate that's 6%. So that's the Puerto Rican law. US law says if I live there
really pretty much full time, we can talk about that. There are specific
rules, but it's pretty much full time. US won't tax me on my income that I
generate there. And then Puerto Rican law says if I'm a good boy and export my
services, and hire a few people, I get this really good rate. And it fit into
exactly what we do anyway. So what do we do? It's changing a little. I do mostly
planning work for real estate investors, small businesses, self directed IRAs,
self directed 401k. So I would say those are the three things. Back when the
internet was young. So we're talking late nineties. I was leaving my corporate
job. This was before accountants and tax lawyers were specialized. You didn't
have a lot of guys, especially for smaller investors. Like if you were, you
know, if you were one of these huge, I don't know what's name a huge real
estate investor. See, I'm so old. I think a Leona Humsley, which kind of dates
me. But whoever Trump, yeah, Trump, he's got specialized tax help, which by the
way, I love reading the New York Times articles on how he screws the government
because I use they paint it like he's cheating. This is wrong. And then I look
at what he did. Like I do that for clients every day who like way less. That
law applies to everybody. And we can get into some of that because the guy as
he I don't always agree with what Trump says. Here's my issue with what Trump
says. I don't think about what Trump says because Trump clearly doesn't think
about what Trump says. But I'm very interested in what he does. And so if
we get time, I'll talk to you about some of the tax end runs that he's used that
apply to real estate investors because I do research those every time the New
York Times says he's an evil man. He cheated the system. I'm like, I'm
interested. I'd like to know how to do that. And it always ends up being
something I've already done. So with our clients, it's almost all virtual. It's
very rare for someone to come into the office pre COVID. We would do seminars
in Puerto Rico in person. And some people after the seminars would come by for
an appointment. That accounts for about 95% of my office foot traffic. No
never visits me. Right. So it's going to be mainly phone, internet, mostly
planning. So what we like to do is look at somebody's entire structure. And I
mean, we go through the books, we go through the returns, we go through the
entities, and we figure out how to improve it. And 95 96% of the time, I
can figure out enough that it's well worth what I charge. 45% of the time, I
look at somebody's stuff and say, you know what? If it ain't broke, don't fix
it. You're doing fine. But then I give him some inflection points. But let me
tell you some things that if they change, you want to come talk to me. If you
do this, if you acquire that, if you sell that, if you change this business, if
you grow that one or cut this one, I want to know. Because now we can do
something. So it's mostly planning and consulting. I do fight the IRS. If we
get time, we should talk about that. Yeah, fighting them is fun. Yeah, I just
had a guy in here who spent about 10 years fighting the IRS because he was
a top executive of Scientology, and they won. You know about Scientology. Oh,
yeah. That when they won. Interesting story, huh? The Scientologists
went over religion now. Okay, yeah. So so the IRS was arguing they weren't a
religion. Exactly. Oh, they're gonna lose. Yeah. You told me they lost. I
could have told you they were gonna lose that argument. Oh, it was because I've
been around enough because a big Scientology area here, right? Oh, this is
like the hub of Scientology. Yeah. Yeah, I've had a few clients and you know,
whatever it is you think of it, you can agree, you can disagree. That's a
religion. Let me tell you what else is a religion. It hasn't been ruled. Yeah, I
mean, how do you define what is or what isn't a religion has to do with belief,
but that's the whole point. Belief. And so here's my point and I'm digressing
and we'll come back and I'm sure you should bring people back to talk
rational. I don't know relevant. I don't know relevant. I'll figure it out one
day. Woke. Being woke is a religion. It's a substitute. It's for people who
don't have an actual religion because humans need to believe in something
bigger and to be part of a bigger cause. We're social creatures. We need
something that is bigger and more important than us. And so we've decided
that actual religion doesn't work. And so we have a manufactured religion,
which is political. It's not just the woke people. They're the worst because
seriously, try and talk to them. Facts don't matter and they'll kill you. What
do you mean by a woke person? What is your definition of woke? All these holier
than now politically correct left wing socialist Bernie loving. Basically the
people who they're the ones who will correct my vocabulary and tell me that
certain terms are inappropriate. For example, I think there are two genders
call me crazy. Now, do I think we should be cruel to someone who's confused
about that? Because there's there's there's a grain of to everything even
the biggest lie. There's always a grain of truth. So let's talk in terms of how
the woke view transgenderism, they make it a cause. They make a big deal out of
it. What percent of the population is that? Not very high, right? They make it
so that you have to accept it. They jam it down your throat or they will ruin
you. You lose your job. If you say, I don't agree with this. If you say, I
think there's only two genders on a related topic. If you say, I disagree
with BLM, which by the way, I do. I disagree with capital letter BLM. I
agree with small letter BLM. In other words, I actually do think black lives
and all lives matter. But the actual BLM movement, I think is profoundly
corrupt. And it's not what it purports to be. The woke people believe in that
that's a touchstone of their religion. That's like a saint, right? It's like in
any other religion. If you say, I think your saint is, I don't know, a criminal
and unless it's children, they get upset. And the woke religion, if you
disagree with BLM, they just start having fits. But it's a substitute. It
provides them meaning, a larger sense of purpose, a cause to which to belong. The
problem is, it's not amenable to discussion. They're not looking to talk
to you. They're looking to shut you down. Just like the Christian wars in
Europe in the 1600s, your heretic were going to ruin you. And there they would
actually kill you, right? Oh, we got a stake. Let's tell you to it and light you
up. But there was a lot more of, we'll fire you. You'll lose your job. You won't
get a degree. You'll never succeed. That sort of thing is happening. And if you
look at that, this whole progressive woke thing, as a religion, that which the
irony is most of them hate religion. And so the fact that they have a fake
religion, and they don't even see that, is irony beyond belief. But yeah, it's
definitely a very strong ideology. You used to think that, or I grew up
thinking that being progressive, or like having a family, I grew up with like
family who were very progressive and Democrat. My mom grew up being, she was
a teacher. She was a college professor. She taught art. She was very, very, she
still is. And you know, when I was young, I used to just think like, you know, that
was, you know, more educated people, people who care about the environment,
people who are creative. They're the people who are more left leaning. And I
think a lot of people still think that way. A lot of like young people,
especially in big cities, I don't know when that became a thing. I don't know.
It seems like all cities, very dense populated cities like New York or LA, are
like that as well. And as well as college universities are like that. But I
think a problem is people, they don't like to, it's convenient not to look
behind the curtain or look through the veil and really try to look at the
little policies or the differences between left and right and, you know, what
things they can have a conversation about. Because I mean, I think there is no
conversation. That's the problem. And, but I would say the same thing about the
right. I would say there's a lot of people around here who are the same way,
but on the complete opposite end of the spectrum.
Let's clarify, because when you have two parties, you have two very large
tens with a lot of different sorts. So for example, each party's going to have
its share of lunatics and idiots. The question is how high is that share?
Right. Let me give you another quick example. Whenever I used to think of
Republican, I would think of people who are business owners, people who have a
lot of money. They don't want to pay taxes, right? That's the first thing I
would think of, right? You're an investor, you're an entrepreneur, you have a
lot of money. A rich guy is always going to be a Republican, especially around
here. Now it seems like it's poverty. It's more of like white trash, poverty,
like the trailer parks. They're all Republicans now, but they don't, they
don't make money. They don't have a lot of money. Those people are on food
stamps. Those people are on unemployment, but they're still hard. They all have
Trump flags. It's like a whole new political party. It's not really
Republican. There's a great book. It's an ideology. It's not really. There's a
great book written on that. I'll have to find the name of it and send it to you.
I can't remember it off the top of my head and I read it like three weeks ago,
but again, the ADD, the title goes out of my head. Let's break this down so we
can talk just about all this, because it's fascinating and there's a lot to it
and we're living it. So the Republican party under Trump has gone more
populist. The people you just described, lower income, basically white trash,
they know you think of them that way. They know everyone thinks of them that
way and it pisses them off. They used to be the guy that worked in a factory and
was proud and made money and put bread on the table. And you know what they
lack now? Hope. There was a great study, series of studies done and it's what
this book focused on. If I have a minute during a break, that's on my nook. I'll
look it up. What the guy did is he went and looked who voted for Trump in the
primaries, not during the general election. During the primaries, who voted
for Trump and who didn't. And he found some interesting correlations. The
people who voted for Trump, to name two examples, were either from very wealthy
areas. He used the example, I think, of Chevy Chase, Maryland, where they have
their own set. They have community. They create community. They're that kind of
people, right? If you live, I think it was like 6,000 of them. They all know each
other. They have their gardening clubs. They have their churches. They go
together. They have their reading clubs. There's a sense of belonging and
community. Likewise, all over the country, anywhere that was heavily, get this,
anywhere that was heavily Dutch, places like Holland, Michigan, there's a place
in Iowa. I forget which county, but it's still heavily Dutch. And the way you can
tell is the Dutch Reformed Church is the primary church there. And then you look
at the last names of people, a lot of V.A.N.s, you know, Van Sloot, Van
Kloet, whatever. Because the Dutch, those communities where they still have either
a majority or close to it, like Holland, Michigan, they're very tight knit. They're
united around a certain culture that they imported from the Netherlands that
they've kept over the generations. A hardworking bourgeois values, classic
bourgeois values of you graduate high school, you get married, then you have
kids and you're honest and you do the right thing. And they belong to that
church, which provides a locus of community. So why do I mention that?
Those people hate Trump. The wealthy Republicans who live in places that have
community, places that are very tight knit, like Dutch communities. And they
also looked at some of the German communities that were similar throughout
the upper Midwest. They hate Trump, who love Trump, the people whose communities
were broken and gone, where there's no church, there's no rotary, there's no
bowling. There's been a lot written on this in terms of alienation and not
having a sense of connection and community. So it goes exactly what I'm
talking about. See, let's circle around now. You're right. There are portions of
the right. Now the right is generally more religious, like having an actual
religion than the left in general. And the left tends to go more mainline,
which is dying than evangelical or Mormon or a little bit more outlying.
That's a substitute for religion. These people who are really...
Wait, what's a substitute for religion? Politics.
Politics. Trump worship. Right, right, right. So I think the Trump worshipers
are a much smaller part of the right. I mean, true, honest to God, Trump
worshipers. I'm not one. I voted for him. For me, in the last election, it was crazy
versus evil. And I figured with crazy, I got a shot. And crazy's worked out pretty
well. I don't like what he says. I like most of what he does. This election is
different. Yeah, I mean, I hear a lot of smart, logical, rational people who like
Trump, but most of the people that I meet who love Trump are not that.
No, so you could just hit the point on the head. I don't even like Trump.
Personally, for example, I think him personally, he's nuts. He's a narcissist.
I used to think Obama was a narcissist and he is. I used to think both
Clintons were extreme narcissists and they are. Man, Trump puts these people to shame.
That dude is the walking poster child picture in the dictionary definition of
self-obsessed narcissist. There's no question. He's nuts. I mean, that's a disorder. He's nuts.
The problem is the entire other party is nuts when you look at some of the stuff they want to do.
But let's come back to the substitute for religion. So you got guys like me who voted for the lesser
of two evils. I did not vote for Trump in the primary. I fit the definition of a guy who was
pretty comfortable, live in a pretty tight-knit community. I have human connections. I'm happy.
I'm not hopeless. Those people who live in those areas, these desolate wastelands,
and if you drive through the Midwest, the rest belt, especially Appalachia.
Appalachia, yeah. Man, it's town after town. There's nothing. It's broken. It's dead.
They don't believe in religion anymore. The church is boarded up and gone.
They need something to believe in. And just as the woke believe in government, that's their God.
The absolute Trump fanatics versus the people who voted for him like me, but
it was him or the other one. So I like what he does. I don't like him at all.
I'll vote for him. Well, I can't vote from Puerto Rico, so I'm going to contribute to his campaign
so that he can rent some votes on my behalf legally. Let's make that very clear, legally.
But the true Trump lovers, yeah, there's a certain cultural commonality.
There's a certain, and I'm not saying it good or bad. I grew up with these guys, right? Youngstown,
Ohio actually matches a lot of what I'm talking about. These guys were hardcore Democrat union
guys. And now they're despised because men are bad. Even though men are getting crushed,
if you look at all the statistics, college graduation rates, suicide rates, joblessness,
women are now ascendant. And yet the feminist thing keeps going because it's
more, much more than just about women being ascendant or equal or unequal. It's way past that
stage. But Youngstown, Ohio, you got guys that used to make a living, could put bread on the table,
made a decent wage, were proud of it. And now what's there? Rusted out steel mills, closing
churches, the old clubs, the VFWs, the rotary, the bowling leagues, they're all dying. These guys
are alienated. They're isolated. They want to believe in something. And you know what they
believe in? They believe in Trump. I'm not saying that's good or bad. I'm just saying it is. So I
think you're right when you point out there's a counterpart to being woke on the right. But who
has the power? Do you know anyone who got fired for criticizing Trump? Have you heard about people
getting fired for criticizing BLM? Or how about the founder? It was the CEO of Mozilla. He gave
$1,000 to the pro marriage. Let me translate that into woke, anti-gay. I don't think that's
necessarily what it means. But he gave $1,000 to anti-gay. He gave $1,000 to the pro marriage
pro marriage proposition in California. Now you can spin it as pro marriage or anti-gay. I guess
it depends where you're coming from. Bottom line is he gave $1,000 to that. His name got leaked
on purpose. That's how these people work. They want to destroy you. He was fired from Mozilla.
Google it. CEO of Mozilla steps down. He was pushed out. Why? Because he thought the wrong way.
Today, again, Google, how many people right now lose their jobs or fear for their livelihood if
they say something against BLM? All right, now tell me how many people are afraid of losing their
livelihood because they said something anti-Trump. You might find a few stories where someone said
something anti-Trump and got in the trouble. It's the exception to the rule. I'll give you an
example. I have a very moderate friend. We're talking a McCain type Republican who might have
voted for Biden back before he went nuts. Not just senile, but hard left. Before he turned
into a cadaver. Both a cadaver and a leftist. It's the worst of both worlds. It's like a vampire
and a zombie mate. You get the worst undead possible. This is a very moderate person who would
switch parties and try to vote for the centrists in each. This friend of mine works for a Fortune
500 company and he won't. He doesn't like Trump. He feels the same way I do. Trump's not a nice
person. He cheats on his women. He's mouthy. He says things he shouldn't say. I don't like him.
He's vulgar. But I think his policies are better than what the other side has to offer. But I would
never dare give money to his campaign because I could lose my job. That's what's happening in
America today. And it's almost entirely on one side. At a university, do they ban left-wing
speakers? You get a couple of neo-Nazi idiots like in Charlottesville marching, but by and large,
who's burning stuff down? When we look at buildings burned down by rioters, what percentage are
burned down by left-wingers? What percentage are burned down by right-wingers? So we're slipping
into something very ugly and unfortunately very normal in human history. In fact, part of when
we get back on topic and it's fun. I like to ramble as we can tell. Lawyer, right?
We're slipping into the norm. So the United States has always been exceptional. And what we're
needing now is the norm. And the norm isn't pretty. So don't you think that's part of the
problem though, using labels like left-winger, right-winger, woke people? That's all part of
the divide. That just fuels the divide and makes people feel like that's one team and this is my
team. There's two different teams. I feel like it fuels the divide even more. And not like that
there's enough divide and conquer going on in the country right now by politicians signaling to
different people. I feel like just conversations like that all over the media just influence
people more and more and more. And I don't know what it's going to take to get out of that, but
let me be more specific. Labels are like any other tool, like guns. How do you use them?
Labels are very useful. For example, I can't meet every human being and judge every human
being on his individual merits as much as I'd like to. And so I have a labeling system, right?
If you show up next to me at a bus stop late at night and you're 350 pounds wearing a certain
kind of jacket with a big scraggly beard, a death metal shirt, and a bunch of tats, I'm a little
more nervous than if you show up and you're a five foot tall petite female in professional dress.
And I don't know what the label for each of those people is. The point is, is we generalize.
I think we have to generalize carefully with humility. Because first of all, there's always an
exception to the generalization always. Second, you generalize for a good reason. So
I've had these these again, more woke people, you can never generalize, especially not about
race or culture. That's just racist. All right, let me give you one. Most people in Mexico speak
Spanish. That's a generalization, and it's about an ethnic group. Well, it's an important one. If
you're going to travel there, you probably should know that. I was careful. It's not all. Are there
people there who speak Nahuatl, the Aztec language and not Spanish at all. There's still little groups
of people who speak purely Nahuatl. And I'm sure there are some other Mexicans who are naturalized
that don't speak Spanish. It's a generalization. It applies in general. Of course, it's when the
generalization becomes nasty. Then the question becomes nasty. That's a hot word right now.
Well, look, every culture, I'm so lucky. In so many ways. My mother is Latin, Latin, Latin.
I mean, the generalizations fit her. Live for today and enjoy life, squeeze every drop of joy
from life, very family oriented, not always on time, vain about her looks. All the good and the
bad generalizations about latins. She pretty much hits it like a pinball machine. Those generalizations
exist for a reason. My father is as white Anglo-Saxon Protestant as it gets. I asked him one time,
I found a joke. I told him this is when I was like a teenager. I said, Dad, I read about this joke
back when you could tell jokes about ethnic groups. You can't do that anymore. It said,
what's post-Cohatal depression for a wasp, white Anglo-Saxon Protestant? And he says, what? And
I said, not being able to reach the Wall Street Journal from the bed after you're done. He thought
that was the funniest thing because you could make fun of yourself. That's hilarious. He's very
disciplined, very orderly, serious guy. So the opposite of my mother, all they have in common is
chemistry and values. And otherwise, they're complete opposites that over the last 50 years have
become more alike. He acts like a Latin in some ways. And so what I was taught when I was little,
they told me, son, you come from two very great cultures. First of all, you're an American,
first, second, and third. And thank God you were here. You won the lottery. Yeah. When you were
born and where you were born, you're not a genius. The other people in other countries aren't doing
worse because you're so much better than they are. You were born here and you didn't create this,
but you should do your part to maintain it. You have a duty and maybe even the spread it.
When it comes to the cultures, your mother and I are very different and you must choose.
Bits and pieces. Take the good part, like the Latin sense of joy and family.
Take the good part from the Protestant English types, the discipline, the work ethic,
the political and economic values. Take the best of each, ruthlessly discard the rest.
So you can't do that now. That's not politically correct. If you see anything bad about a culture,
unless it's white hicks, we're allowed to make fun of them. You see anything bad about any... Oh,
yeah. Yeah, they're Trump supporters, which is why we're allowed to make fun of them.
Okay, yeah. No, seriously. You go on any show as a comedian. You go anywhere and say anything bad
about white rural people. Nobody's going to have an issue that matters. Nobody that matters is going
to have an issue. You go crack a joke about any other group. There are consequences for that.
That's a double standard. So when you say labeling, let me switch the word a little.
I think labels are very useful if they're carefully thought through. So let's think
through our generalization with the most important thing being, is it true? Is it true? That's what
matters to me because I can't know every person in a group. So I have to understand group traits,
knowing that not everybody matches it. Is the generalization true? Second, am I balanced?
See, because if all I do is make generalizations that are nasty about a certain group, I only
talk about the bad part. That makes you a racist or something similar. That's awful.
If all you do is talk about the good things about the group, you're a politically correct
Pollyanna who's part of the problem because groups cannot fix their problems. All groups
have problems, all of them. You can't fix the problem unless you identify it. You got to be
able to talk honestly about generalizations. And then what do we do about the bad ones?
And how do we promote the good ones? And that applies to any group. But see, now we're not
even allowed to discuss it. So I think the issue we're really getting at is tribalism. A, an inability
to have an honest discussion without it becoming a religious screaming match of people who do not
want to discuss facts or anything. They just want to shut you down. That's why they fire you.
That's why you don't get accepted to the nice university or you get kicked out. Their object
is not to have a debate with you. If you don't agree, they're shutting you down and they have the
power. The real issue, and it's one that this country is defied for so long and the word I'd
like to offer is tribalism. See, it used to be we were one big tribe and we had our little tribes,
but we were Americans. And we weren't always right. We're flawed. For example,
were blacks not treated properly as Americans for a long time? You're damn right they weren't.
But you know what? We didn't invent slavery. That's existed throughout history and every
civilization. We didn't invent that. At great cost, the Royal Navy and the Union Army said,
we're not going to be doing this. The British, at great cost, sent their navy forth and the early
to mid 1800s, took slavers and hung the captains. And anything within distance of the Royal Navy's
cannon shot, forts on the coast that would sell slaves, wherever they were, they would get a
message in lead. The Union Army, those 18 year old boys from the north, a total of 700,000 dead
in the Civil War with a population less than half the size of what we got now,
they didn't cause slavery. They sure as hell fought to stop it. So now we're not perfect.
We used to unite around that. And they shamed us into uniting around that. You know, those guys,
both the blacks and the civil rights marchers in the south,
God, what dignity they would show up in suits quietly with dignity. And people would sit dogs
on them. People would hose them. And they shamed us. They kept coming. And they shamed us into
doing the right thing. Yeah, yeah, done late. Sure. But we did do it. The civilization became better.
And we advanced. But now what's happening? Because that could have been a uniting moment.
We've decided we're going to have separate tribes and we can discuss
some of that's natural. Look at Yugoslavia. Look at the old Russian Empire. Hell, look at Belgium or
Canada. It's normal to break down into ethnic tribes. Very normal. It's not normal to put aside
skin color or religion and be one thing an American, for example, that melting pot was
fairly unique in history and we're destroying it. Some of its natural entropy is natural.
All things human break down naturally, they decay. But there are also a lot of people pushing for
that. It brings them power to pit us against one another. So that now we're warring tribes.
And we're currently being driven further and further apart, but we're going along with it too,
because it's very human and it's very natural, as you said, to have a team and root for that team
right or wrong. That's my team. The problem is the team is no longer America. And so can you have
an excess of a good thing? Anything in excess is bad, right? Compassion. I want this kid to be
happy. I want him to like me. I give him a bunch of candy because I'm nice. The kids teeth fall out.
Compassion can be bad. I won't discipline the kid because I don't believe ever violence is always
wrong. Well, no, it's solved a few problems in history that needed solved. Hitler being a good
example. Sometimes it is appropriate. We go to extremes. So let me give you something we've taken
to an extreme. I lived it. I grew up. I watched it. You can all the history guys can write a book
and tell me I'm wrong. And I'm like, no, I lived it and watch it. And I'm going to believe my own
to a lying eyes. Diversity used to mean we got to include blacks. They weren't included. They were
excluded. That was wrong. They need to be included. It's not right. That's what it used to mean.
Now it's Balkanization. Now there's no longer a common identity. It's multiculturalism. Think about
that word. Instead of culturalism on the American culture. I was taught rightly so I think
you're Latin. You speak Spanish. Be proud of your Latin roots. But first, you're an American. Second,
you're an American. Third, you're an American. Fourth, you're a Latin. So remember it. March in
a parade. Remember your language. Cherish and keep the pieces of that culture that work. But don't
separate yourself. That's what we're doing. We're splitting in the tribes. It's a way it's another
crazy thing I noticed is lately there have been a lot of marches around here and we've been going
and going covering them and interviewing people on both sides and it's like you said there's no
conversation. A few conversations going on. Most people are just screaming at each other and just
like hatred. And a couple weeks ago there was a gay pride parade. There's a huge gay pride parade
every month every year in downtown St. Petersburg, right? Like 20 minutes away from here. And it was
so much different. It was just like a huge group of just people like being happy and having fun and
not yelling, just playing music, goofing off. And there was absolutely none of that. When we
thought there was going to be like a huge counter attack to them, like another side, like another
conservative side of it. Let me ask you a question. Yeah, you just answered the question. I was going
to ask. It was so confusing. Who would show up? Actually, no, there's a method to the madness.
There's a pattern here. So I was going to ask you, who would show up and disrupt that? What kind
of people? Well, a certain kind of conservative. Right. Because again, that's a very broad term.
For example, my gut feel just listening to you, you probably to the extent your political trend
libertarian would be my guess. Yeah, absolutely. Gee, how did I figure that out? Didn't take long.
I have, I'm 80% of the way there. A friend of mine says, you're like a warmonger libertarian.
Like you're, you're, we can get into that. There are reasons. I was a libertarian in my 20s. And
as I got older and read more history and got to know people, I switched more to constitutional
conservative, which is 80% libertarian with guns, lots of guns. Right. So what does tolerance mean?
When a Democrat or a woke person tolerates, there's the quote marks in the air I'm making,
a gay person, are they really tolerating it? No, because they agree with it. They're okay with
it. Tolerance means tolerating something you disagree with. So the fact that the right-wingers
that are against that, which I would say even on that side of the aisle is a minority of small,
for sure, loud, obnoxious minority. So let me ask you this. The gay pride people were left alone.
In other words, I would say they were party going down up in the street, people having fun high
fiving. But the conservatives that would disagree with it tolerated it. They didn't show up.
We thought it was going to be more of, you know, more showing for support for BLM and the other
BLM marches that we covered had a huge anti-BLM presence there. Yeah. A huge Trump. Yeah. Counter
protest. Right. Exactly. Because that's a, that's a, that's a much more political thing. But let me
finish the circle here. So places where liberals dominate the media, the universities, increasingly
corporate boardrooms, do they tolerate me disagreeing with BLM? Because tolerance is tolerating
something you don't like. They don't like it when you disagree with BLM. So how would you say they
are in terms of the left, in terms of tolerance? What happens at a university? That's a weird thing.
You're going to talk about what is disagreeing with BLM. Most people would say. I make a post on
my Facebook page. I think that BLM is a racist communist left-wing organization that is not
what it purports to be, which by the way is exactly what I think. And that's capital BLM.
Small letters BLM, do I believe in that? Well, yeah, I believe all lives matter. And are there
different issues in the black community as we break down our generalizations and see that
they face different challenges than everybody else? Yeah, there are. And they do need to be
discussed and looked at. But in terms of BLM capital letters, that's a bunch of hard left
marks, it's not jobs. I think most people that look at BLM honestly, I think especially young
people and like what you see in sports, it's people just wanting to be open-minded and inclusive
of minorities who don't get the same sort of treatment as other people do. We can't deny the
fact that a black guy getting pulled over by the cops at midnight is going to feel the same way
as me or you getting pulled over by the cops at midnight. A lot of the people who are pro-BLM
have good intentions, which by the way they would never ever attribute to me. Because I'm a conservative,
I don't have good intentions. I'm bad. I want to hurt people. I'm selfish and I'm evil. Now,
how am I going to have a conversation with that person if they won't even give me the benefit
of the doubt? I think that the guys on the side of the left, I don't agree with them. I think what
they're doing is insanely harmful. But you know what? I do think they mean well. I do think that
the people who, for example, will put the BLM thing on their phone or their Facebook background
or whatever, I don't think they mean any harm. In fact, the opposite, I think they mean to try and
help and do good just in the way you described. That, you know, there are some problems and we'd
like to be a part of the solution. But like something else you said, I think they bought a
false label. What BLM purports to be it is not. And you just got to look at their website. That's
not something that someone needs me to lecture them on. If someone's curious, just go to their
website. They'll tell you what they stand for. But is it their website? It's somebody's website,
for sure. Somebody is weaponizing it, right? Of course. The founders of BLM are hardcore leftists.
In partisan politics, somebody is going to take by that website. I mean, think of a person who's
going to, I mean, what kind of an entrepreneurial mind is it taking to purchase Black Lives Matter
dot com and weaponize it and use it towards you, whatever your agenda is. This is a question. Are
you saying that the BLM website that says what BLM stands for and what the BLM founders, I think
there are three of them, say was put there by someone else and isn't what they believe?
No, not at all. I have no clue who started the BLM website. I have no clue who owns it. I'm just
saying that the people who found it, who purchased the BLM website and used it as a tool for something
don't necessarily have the same agenda as someone else who hears the term Black Lives Matter or
sees the term Black Lives Matter. I think that could be true in theory, but in fact, the BLM
website is consistent with what BLM is. It is BLM. In other words, somebody didn't hijack their
website and put a message they don't agree with on there. I think they're very open about what
they're about, capital B, capital L, capital M. Among other things, they're openly against the
nuclear family, which is lunacy. One of the biggest problems- What do you mean? What's that mean,
the nuclear family? Mom, dad, kids. Oh, okay. And here's the issue. Now, before anybody gets offended,
who doesn't have that family or wasn't in it, slow down, take a Quelude. That's my generation. I think
yours would probably say take a Xanax or maybe even that's obsolete. I'm not up to speed on all this.
If you really want to harm a child, have a child out of wedlock. If you look at the statistics,
and I know they're exceptions and I've talked to the exceptions, but I also talked to the
usually single mom who raised the exception and what she had to do to make it happen.
If you want to mess a kid up statistically, now we're talking about a generalization,
one that sociologists on the right and left, they do agree on. So that's right away catches
your attention. Holy, they agree on something? Oh, yeah. Yeah, you look at Brookings Institution
or the Heritage Foundation, they're going to give you pretty much the same answer. They'll have
different policy suggestions. But in terms of illegitimacy, being born outside of wedlock,
that is awful for children. And I don't think you need to study outside of wedlock or outside of a
mother and father who are together and have a stable relationship. There's actually a stable home.
There's actually a slope. Wedlock trumps mother and father that aren't married because it's more
stable because there's social pressure to be stable. There's a cost for that. Nothing's financial
pressure. Social pressure to get divorced. Yeah, absolutely. But you have to pay that anyway.
Any more if you create a kid, hell in states, men are discriminated against. Even if you can show
with DNA, you didn't create the kid. Sometimes you're held responsible for it. There's some really
bad law there that's used against men, but you don't hear about it because that's not the
narrative. The narrative goes the other way. Women are oppressed, men are never oppressed.
Going back to stable families, it upsets people. They get very angry about it. But study after
study after study after study. And unfortunately, we evidently need those nowadays because we don't
have common sense or can't use our own eyeballs to just pay attention. I, for example, one of the
things I did as I coached debate, and I volunteered for a Boy Scout troop to help out, you could
tell immediately. I mean, immediately, about 90% of the time, there were the exceptions,
but about 90% of the time, I could tell very quickly if there was no male role model and
especially no married father in the house, very quick. And I was because I was usually the guy
that got sent to deal with those kids. What trait was that? How did you know how did you?
Oh, the misbehavior, acting out, not because normally, and again, now I'm making generalizations.
They don't apply to everybody. Normally, who's the disciplinarian? Mom or dad? Normally.
Would you say there's a trend? You're going to hedge on me, aren't you?
It does depend, right? I'm not saying always. I'm saying in the majority of cases, who's the
disciplinarian? The dad. In the majority of cases, who's the one that nurtures and protects the child?
The mother. Yeah, not always. There are tons of exceptions, but in general is what we're talking.
There's a balance there, especially with young men, young men without a father. I haven't seen,
you know, let me take that back. I've seen more studies on what happens to young men
without a father, and it's usually pretty bad versus what happens to young women without a dad.
I'm going to look into that. Now I'm curious because it's a gap in my knowledge and I need to know.
I want to look at the studies to see what happens. But overall, there is an actual,
because they do comparisons. And again, both on left and right, Brookings puts this out too.
Nothing works better than one man and one woman married in general. Now.
Of course, because of culture. Can I show you? Well, can I show you the exceptions?
For example, can I show you personally a gay couple? I know that I'm friends with two ladies
who have a child who's very well brought up and probably will end up okay. Yeah.
But is that in general what works? It is not. Nothing compares to that arrangement. The further
you get away from that arrangement with the furthest being typically the single mom, very little male
influence. The outcomes are universally bad. The trend should again, not universally, not in
every case, but generally overall, they're very bad trends. But we have continued for a number of
reasons to go in this direction. Here's the irony. This is where our intelligentsia, our upper middle
classes, a lot of woke people, a lot of liberals, very highly educated people are afraid to say,
do as I do. They say every lifestyle is acceptable, no judgment. But if you look at how they live,
most of them are in married stable houses. And they get the corresponding results.
I don't know how we got on the topic. It comes back to, oh, to BLM and, you know,
so you get into issues of what causes issues with certain groups. Now, here's the automatic
assumption. If there's a disparity between, for example, black and white, or let's say Hispanic,
which I am, and white, like white, white, as opposed to my sort of mild beige.
The first answer is always it's racism without any actual attempt to prove that. Well, there are
other factors. If you live in a culture that has high illegitimacy rates, and there's a lack of
fathers across racial and ethnic lines, that's a problem. In other words, whether you're black,
or brown, or white, or beige, or pink, or whatever, you get very similar results. And it's uniformly
bad. Well, now you have to look at to the extent that exists in a given community. So it gets
complicated and deep. But usually by this point of the conversation, because I've done this on
Facebook before, you know, there'll be 50 cancelers screaming racist. They don't want a discussion.
They don't want to look at what's going on. It's complicated. It takes a lot of thinking.
And having an open mind, you know, I had quit, I had debaters quit, I used to coach it.
And they would quit because I forced them, and at the tournaments, they were forced to
argue both sides. You weren't forced to agree with it. But you did have to argue it.
Right. And I remember I had won the topic was resolved. You have a duty to help your fellow man.
Now, a lot of that turns on what does duty mean? Like, is it's not the same question as,
is it good to help your fellow man? In fact, a libertarian would normally say you don't have
a duty, because if you have a duty, you can be forced. So should I help? Yes. But do I have a
duty such that you can force me to perform that duty? No, would be a usual libertarian response.
Granted, libertarians like conservatives have a lot of different shades, like 50 shades of
libertarian. Right. Yeah. So I had debaters quit because they couldn't argue. They refused.
I will not argue that you don't have a duty to help others. I'm not asking you to agree with it.
I'm just asking you to open your mind and look at how someone else thinks about it
and look into it deeply. Yeah, I think it's a huge problem with most people
when you speak about debating or having a conversation or arguing about anything,
is most people just look for things that, they only look for things that are going to
validate what they already believe. They don't look for ways, they don't look for ways to disprove
what they already believe. Like, if I believe something's true, I'm not looking, I don't personally
want to look for, just look for things that are going to validate what I already believe is true.
I want to look for things that are going to prove that I'm wrong. That's if you're intellectually
honest, but here's what happens. First of all, it's what you're talking about, of course, confirmation
bias. That's built into human nature. So it's kind of like entropy, everything that's human
crumbles unless we actively maintain it. Confirmation bias is built into our nature. It's
actually a survival trait at some point, just like paranoia is a survival trait. Think about that.
If you're paranoid, you think about all these really unlikely outcomes and you play in for them.
Right. And probably none of them are ever going to happen. But man, if one does, you're ready.
Like the saber tooth tiger comes out of the alley with a knife.
And I'm ready, man. I am ready to go. I know a lot of paranoid people.
So here's what I would say about both confirmation bias and paranoia. Paranoia
is a survival trait. If you have more scenarios, and you've thought them all through, no matter
how unlikely, you are more likely to survive. Paranoia is not a happiness trait.
Right. Being that way or being around people who are that way. That's rough.
Stressful. Confirmation bias. Here's the problem. We've embraced it. I lived it. Growing up, I was
trained in debate and I was trained to challenge my own thinking and to have truly an open mind.
So if you want to have some fun, next podcast, ask me to switch arguments and argue the woke
case against people like me. And I'll bet you dimes to dollars. I can do it almost as persuasively
with as much knowledge because I know what I'm rejecting. And that's the problem. Most people
don't. I know what I'm rejecting. I've looked at it. I've studied and I've thought about it.
And on some things, they have a point. It's not like they're 100% wrong. Just like 90.
Um, but we've embraced confirmation bias because now what do they tell you in school?
How do you feel? Right. Your feelings matter. I want to validate your feelings. Yeah. And if
there's some way you can get a participation trophy for getting validating your feelings,
the whole point is to challenge your feelings. Right. Right. And we don't do that. We embrace the
whole. Do you feel oppressed? Well, I don't know what's in it for me. Well, there's a check involved.
Well, yeah, I feel oppressed. I feel, I feel it. I mean, come on. Yeah.
A funny story. A friend of mine walked into, he, uh, his mom is like a hardcore Trump person.
And she was watching Tucker Carlson in the living room or whatever. And me and my friend,
we're both big NBA fans. Let me define, is she, um, so when you say hardcore Trump,
very general, uh, pretty much strong generalization. He can't do, well, no, because it's important
the details. Yes. Yes. Is it one of these people? He can't do anything wrong. Right. It's,
he has a secret plan and he's 15 chess moves ahead of everybody and he's a genius and you just don't
see it. Yes. Okay. Yes. I just have to frame the type. I know the type. Yeah. Yeah. It's basically
anything you see on Fox news is true and anything else you hear is false. He, he, he walks in,
she's watching Tucker Carlson. Me and my friend, we're both huge NBA fans and he's commentating on
the first game back when they went to the Orlando bubble and they're all kneeling and they have the
black lives matter everywhere. And Tucker Carlson says, look at the NBA given a big middle finger
to the rest of America. And he walks in, he sees that and he's like, mom, are you fucking kidding
me? What are you like? What are you watching? She's like, you should fuck, you should listen to
Tucker. Maybe you'll learn something. He's right. And he's like, look at, look at all these NBA players
giving a big middle finger to America. This woman believes this is true. Oh, actually, I don't,
she's convinced yet, but, but I don't disagree with him. But do you think these NBA players who are
18, 19, 20, 21, the majority of them are really given a big middle finger to America? Yes. Do you
think that they're thoughtfully doing that? No. Okay. Or there's the, or is Tucker making it seem
like that and painting this picture? Right. So Tucker's job, let's remember why he makes as much
money as he does. I like him. I generally agree with him. His job is not to dispassionately convey
facts and to give you a balanced education and view of things. Tucker's job is to piss you off and
keep you coming back to watch his show. And that's all these guys. I have relatives and friends,
dear friends that match the description. I don't watch TV. I don't watch Fox. I dislike Fox less
than the rest of the media. I despise the media in general. Let's make a point. I think the press
has an insanely important job. So do teachers. So I have a lot of respect for education
and for freedom of speech and for publication. I have very little respect for the present
professionals engaged in those professions. The teachers are a bunch 90% left-wing nut jobs. You
want to have some fun? Google Antifa and how many of them were teachers who were when they were
arrested? How many of those people? Yeah. Or just what they're teaching the kids in school.
The press. The problem, my God, you want to talk about confirmation bias. So the press just
blatantly lies and we can talk about how they do it. They're really good at it. They have a special
technique that the rest of us lack. So they're doing a terrible job. Instead of giving us information
so we can make a decision, they're trying to make the decision by controlling the information.
And now it's just blatant and open. Everyone sees it too. And they do. You see the ratings of the
press are I think even below Congress, which, wow, that takes effort. Like what do you have to do?
So Tucker's job, while I agree with a lot of what he says, that's not really his job to convey
information. That's sort of incidental. Tucker's job is to piss off rooting for your team and to
come back and watch the next game. So I guess the irony of the NBA being involved in how serious
some people get about sports was just a different kind of sport with much greater consequences.
And that's an issue because on either side, you cannot have a discussion with those people. So is
she going to persuade him, for example, by screaming at him, you need to watch this, you're going to
learn. What's the matter with you? Yeah, I'm thinking that's probably not going to help.
But that's our civilization has lost the ability. What would a good, thank God, again, thank God
you know what I want for everybody? I want all this socialism. That's a mistake.
I am grateful for what I have. I don't feel guilty. I didn't cause slavery or misfortune or other
things. I don't feel guilty. I feel grateful that I live in this country, that I have the parents
I've got, and I want others to have what I had. And I try to spread that and help people. What did
I have? My father is the best practitioner of Socratic method I've ever met. Bar none. I've
met judges, lawyers, law professors. What's Socratic method? You ask a very broad question,
you shut up and you let the other guy talk, and you lead him. Let him have his say. And then ask
what do you think about this? And am I a long conversation? He may have to go back and look
things up if he's willing to actually have that discussion. Sometimes the best ones are open
and free flowing. We don't know where we're going to go. I'm going to ask this question and it may
go where I think it's not going to go. You know who I respect? And they don't exist much anymore.
And I'll tell you why. The professors that had a strong political opinion. And when they did a
study and it came up with quote unquote, the wrong opinion, they're like, that's the data.
It's the data. Change your opinion. Not anymore. A guy just got demoted. It was at one of the
Michigan universities. He commissioned a study on police racism towards blacks.
And he's a liberal. And he thought the answer was going to be racism. And the answer to the study
was no, it's prevalence of crime. You're not pulled over because you're black, you're pulled over
because of the prevalence of crime in areas and you match the description. Now that's not fair.
If I'm a black guy who gets pulled over and I didn't do a damn thing wrong,
and I'm getting pulled over because of what someone else did, and I'm getting lumped into
that group, is that going to piss me off? Sure. On the other hand, what do you want police protection
or not? Does it mean I can't pull people over if they're black and it matches the description?
Now where it gets pissy is if it's for no good reason. All right, my turn signal was on. I've
had it done once or twice to me, but the cop quickly realized from my accent and demeanor,
these are not the droids we're looking for. I got pulled over for a turn signal.
And I was at that time, I'm slightly swarthy, had the beard, had a beat up car.
So it was kind of like, all right, and as soon as I was though,
officer, how can I be helpful? Did I make a mistake or how you're doing?
Hearing my hands on the wheel, instant went away, the problem instantly.
But it's that ability to have that. So this professor, I think it was Michigan State, one of
the Michigan universities, he came up with quote unquote, the wrong answer on a study that was
Heather McDonald. She writes for the Wall Street Journal, among others on police issues.
She was using that study to show the police aren't racist. And by the way, I don't think they are.
I mean, Minneapolis. I think some are. Well, of course some are and some are rapists and some
are murderers and some are thieves. But to a point where that's the real root of the problems,
that's the black, I mean, how many black lives in 2019 were lost due to police shootings that
were unjustified. Let's let's let's narrow it down. Unarmed blacks shot by police in 2019. How
many were there? About 20. I'm off a little. Somebody can Google my number. It's going to be
close. How many of them were clearly wrong? Three. I mean, this is a situation where the guy was
clearly unarmed, turned his back, and it's not like he was reaching for something, or he did
something that makes you react. And just clearly, yeah, you need to be tried for murder. No, that's
awful. But in the scope of black lives lost per year, it's not it's not the driving thing.
It's not the majority reason. If black lives truly matter, why do we only focus on the ones
that are very few? They were unjustifiably taken by police. What happens when you pull police
protection from these neighborhoods? So this study set out to show there were some racism,
because that's how these university people think they're mostly very liberal.
Of course, yeah, definitely. This guy had enough honesty that when the facts came back on the study,
with quote unquote the wrong answer, he published a study. He has since withdrawn the study and
been demoted. So what's the message to the rest of the university world? You better come up with
the right answer. And while we're at it, you better come up with the right answer on hydroxychloroquine,
global warming. Oh, I'm sorry, we changed it. What do we call that now? Well, climate change,
that's right, because it's always changing. So it's easy. But that sends a message.
You came up with the wrong answer. You lost your position, you had to withdraw the study.
So how many more guys do you think that when they have a study that comes up with quote unquote the
wrong answer are going to publish honest information? That's where we live today.
I mean, a huge problem. Don't you think a huge problem with what's going on with the police
is a lack of training and a lack of, I mean, how often do they have to brush up on their training?
I think there are some issues with training. I shoot, and I'll tell you it was instructive to me.
I always wondered how you could put 14 bullets into a guy. Let me tell you how. I went and
with some friends to Vegas and there was this seal, X Navy seal training you how to clear a house.
And they had a guy in there with a suit of armor that he was, you know, the terrorist and would
do different things. Man, was that eye opening. That was eye opening as hell. We had real guns,
they were glocks with a different slide. So it would shoot out this little blue powdered bullet.
And the first time the guy pops out, you know, you're three and I'm not even under nearly as much
stress. I got adrenaline because I'm with my buddies and I don't want to be, I don't want to be
the bitch. I want to be a little alpha. But that's not a lot of adrenaline. It's not, hey,
someone's shooting at me adrenaline. And I still put the first time I'm thinking the whole time,
I'm visualizing double tap baby, chest head, chest head. I'm going to put one in the chest,
one in the head and I shoot enough. Theoretically, I could do that. This guy pops out. So then
that's a lack of training. Yeah. But it also let's talk about the degree of training you need.
I'll give you one more example, then we'll talk about the degree of training because there's
a good example for this. So then they didn't tell us they were going to do this. They threw
some surprises at us. So I come around the corner, we did this like 50 times, we go and clear this
house. And so I go around the corner and the guy puts his hands up, but his gun is still in it.
I blew him away. I mean, I wasn't sure. So if the guy in the dark has his hand tucked away,
I'm going with a cop benefit of the doubt. Now in terms of training,
what does it take to shoot like seal team six? These are the guys that when they go on an airplane,
they can instantly put a bullet in the terrorist's head and not hit a civilian.
These guys are the most highly trained. They can do this. They're calm. They work as a team. And
there are some other issues there in terms of they're even exploring psychedelics to see if they
can get people to work more as literally just one because that's a big part of it, that flow.
So these seal guys, seal team six back in the eighties, it was rich and I always mispronounce
his name. I think it was Marsinko wrote a book on seal team six. Those guys, I don't know how
many there were, let's say a hundred of them. Yeah, I had a guy on the show on seal team six.
Their budget for one year of training was more ammunition than the entire Marine Corps used
for the same year. So it's a non-trivial proposition. I do think more training can help,
but what are some of the problems that stand in the way of that? Police unions.
Once we decided to unionize state workers, their priorities became very different.
Now you're paying in California prison guards 250 grand and they're retiring on it and there's no
money for anything else. There's no money. What I'm paying, I'm buying votes as what the unions
are about and the votes are all for one party. Very few unions go Republican. You're buying these
votes. These guys are making stupid money. That doesn't mean all the cops in every one are making
stupid money, but bottom line is the union causes resources to get funneled such that you can't even
afford current operations. Take a look at Chicago. Last I looked for public services, they're paying
out more in pensions than they are to active people. That's unions. What does that mean gets cut?
Everything else. Now who supports these unions? Who votes for these unions? The same people who
suffer when the police are not trained well. The black community, to name one example, I can name
a lot more. It's just the easiest one because BLM is the thing right now. They vote overwhelmingly
Democratic. Who overwhelmingly support the unions? Who overwhelmingly put money into retirement and
raises and benefits? And who starve other things of money? Now the Democratic answer is, well,
we just need to take more money from everybody. We could be like Europe. Well, okay, let's talk
about that. Does the middle class want to pay 60% tax rates like they do in Germany and Sweden?
That's the part they don't tell you. Google. Everybody on this, just you don't have to take
my word for it. I'm just some schmuck, some voice you never heard. Go to Google. Google different
places. Google a few places you disagree with. Take a look at what is the average tax rate
in Germany, Sweden, France, and see if you want to pay that. And especially at least there you get
something because of the culture, the special culture. I live, I speak German, I lived in Germany
for a while. The special culture that Germans, Nordics, the Dutch, we used to have it for various
reasons. It's dying, diddle the British. They actually get something for their money.
What do you think happens if we put 60% tax rates? If we put like, I think France,
we're at 28% roughly of GDP, I think, going to government. I could be off by a few points,
but in that vicinity, it's in the 20s. France is like 56%. Do you really think we're going to
get from our government, given the nature of our government, our culture, how things function here?
You really think that, oh yeah, we're going to get efficient services?
Yeah, I don't fucking know, but I probably think no. I probably think the answer to that question
is no. No, we look more like Greece or Italy or Puerto Rico or Mexico in that regard.
Good bourbon, man. Yeah, it is pretty good, huh?
Want some more? Yeah, for sure. We need more ice.
So we were chatting, took a quick break here, and we were chatting about my parents. So mom
is from El Salvador. And she is 5'1", of 100% Trump supporter. And she tells people, she's like,
and she does get a little blinded at times. I think she buys a little bit into the cult
of personality, and we disagree on that some. But I'll tell you what, she's lived through a
dictatorship. As has my wife. My wife lived under Pinochet and Chile. My mother lived under a
dictatorship in El Salvador, and they said, both of them, this country is starting to act
like a dictatorship. There are too many things you can't say and you can't do or else. Mom,
whenever someone criticizes the U.S., it depends on if it's loving criticism.
Like, you can tell the difference. In your life, when someone criticizes in a loving,
supportive way, they're still hard. Like, we all had that coach who he kicks your ass,
but he really is trying to make you better, and you know it, and you respect him. And then you
got people who criticize because they're just mean, and they're being nasty, and they don't have your
best interest at heart. And you know the difference. What's the same thing? When people get all
anti-American, she goes nuts. She goes, the Salvadoran fury enters the room. I mean,
you don't know how good you have it. You want, we should exchange you for someone who would
actually work and give a chat about this country. You should see what it is you're missing. No,
we are not perfect, but it is the best place ever. And this man is trying to save the place,
and instead of turning into a goddamn socialist hill hole, she goes and you just get out of the
way. When Hurricane Sylvia comes in the room, like, so what I got for one of the things I got
from mom, several things, pride, she's one, both of them are the type of people who
they would rather die than be wrong. And I don't mean by be wrong, like admit they're wrong. I mean,
they would be horrified if they hurt an innocent human being. I don't know if they could live with
that. They're really good people. The discipline, the intelligence, and in mom's case, the passion
for do the right thing. Always make yourself better in life. Be a better person. No bullshit. She was
both withdrawal sergeants, but mom, man, if she thought you were slacking, like you've
read about the tiger moms, the Asian moms. Yeah. Well, that was my mom, but Latin with heels.
I mean, and I'm grateful for it. Yeah. Thank God for that upbringing.
I've noticed the same thing with Cubans who've experienced Castro. Yeah. Well, and that's hardcore
Trump supporters because they lived it. So you get different kinds of Latins. What people don't
realize is the Latin community, I think Biden screwed up on this sort of. He was kind of right, but
he said Biden recently said, unlike the black community, which is what got him in trouble,
unlike the black community, the Latin community has a lot of diversity. Now, even I don't like
Biden. I think he's nuts and I don't like him. And he's gone very left in order to win. So I
detest him. But I do think that statement, if you look at it objectively, was true because,
for example, the Mexicans who come north to the U. S. On average, in general, there's that
generalization are very different than the Cubans who came here. And it shows in the cultures and
subcultures, the Mexicans tend to be working class, not a lot of education. And they come up here
and work like dogs. I mean, they were they bust their fucking asses to the point where it hurts
them. We had some Mexican friends and were like, look, you got to understand what the American
schools are teaching your kids and you got to spend some more time with your kids. No, I'm too busy
working the four jobs. Right. And so the school brought the kid up and the kid becomes a loser
because of the inferior values taught in the public school. The Cubans who came here were
more the creme de la crope of Cuba. They're the ones who had the most to lose under socialism.
The ones who worked hard and were having everything taken away. So what did they do? They came here
and rebuilt. They came here and did what they did there. They worked hard. But in a different way.
See, they both work hard. But there's a difference when you have a class of people who are used to
having a business and they know how to run it. I learned that the hard way, like my family is
not business people. They're W2 professional, highly educated people. I made so many mistakes
that I didn't know having a business, all the dumb stuff. Man, we could get, we could have way more
bourbon and talk about the immensely stupid things I've done in business because I didn't have that
background. Where the Cubans who came up here, they were raised on it. There was families that
had generations, a lot of them, of businesses and they worked their butts off. So what did they do?
They lost everything. They came back up here and they did it again. Except in a place where
it's even more possible. They had more opportunity here than they did there. So with that skill set
and that attitude and that mentality and the respect for education, where the guy who came
from Mexico from a poor peasant family, well, he was never really taught about the importance of
education and culturally look at, for example, compare how Chinese or East Indians do compared
to other minorities. They value education. I mean, to a point of like, if you don't study,
there's going to be real trouble. You have Asian friends who I ask them, how come,
how come so many study like law or medicine or engineering? Like, are you kidding? If I studied
sociology, my parents would have my head on a bike in the front lawn. It's just the culture.
They're all about A, education and B, it better pay off and be practical.
Hmm. It's not in some places that's good and in some places that's bad. It's just a difference
in culture. Again, I'm lucky. I got to see two very different cultures. And so it made me a lot
more observant. I hate to use the word sensitive because it's been overdone, just more observant
when it comes to watching. So for example, why do the Cubans who came here vote the way they do
versus the Puerto Ricans who came off an island in the Caribbean, but under very different
circumstances, totally different, totally opposite voting patterns? Well, there are a lot of cultural
reasons for that. Interesting. Another thing I noticed is that a lot of young people around here,
especially, they tend to just lean whatever way their parents do. And they tend to just basically,
they don't really think that much. They just hear whatever their parents say, educated or not,
thoughtful or not. They just tend to just hear what their parents say and repeat that. And
that's the direction they move. And that's what they fight for no matter what.
That's human nature. I'm going to disagree with you a little. I think if their parents are left,
they stay left because the school system, the television stations, Hollywood, the universities,
corporations all lean left. So that bias is actually reinforced where I have seen a number of
my, I mean, as you can imagine, most of my friends are conservative, not all, but most,
because birds of a feather, same value as that kind of thing. It's pretty normal.
And I've seen a lot of them, their kids went hard left and I asked the parents, what did it?
Well, they went to college and these professors totally screwed them up.
Interesting. And my response was, well, did you have the dinner table talks? And a lot of people
don't. See, Americans in general are often very lazy about raising their kids and let the schools
in the system do it. And I think that's a huge mistake. One of the best compliments in my life.
So I started living in Puerto Rico part time. My youngest daughter's last year of high school,
I was there part time for the first half of the year, full time the second half.
The first time I came home from one of the two week sojourns,
my eldest, all the kids show up. My eldest daughter says to me, and it just so heartfelt,
it really felt good. We have the best family. Just after everything she'd seen at school and all,
and she might disagree on a few things. She's a bit more socially liberal than I am. And I just
told her, wait, and it was great when she got her first paycheck, she's not, she now has her own
career and is out working and she got her first paycheck. Man was out of reality check for her.
But she said, we had the best family. And I said, tell me, what do you mean? Well,
most people don't talk to their parents and they're not taught things and they're not made to argue
and think. And they ask how you're doing, but they don't really dig. My wife's really good at that.
Lord, she would be a great inquisitor. And not in a mean way. It's that she's so soft and gentle
and able to elicit so much. And I asked my daughter, what's the number one thing
that you think resulted in us remaining close and has helped you in life
and distinguishes our family that we deserve the compliment, this massive compliment you just gave
me that I'm never going to forget as long as I live. What is the one thing that made the difference?
She didn't hesitate. Dinner table. We always, we cook our own food. We don't eat out. I mean,
we do eat out some, but our kids know how to cook really well. I can tell you if you got a minute,
a funny story about my son in cooking and in government trouble. We cook together. We cook
from scratch. We cook all sorts of different flavors and ethnic foods and healthy stuff generally.
But you know, we like to have our fun like this bourbon. And so they're all, they're part of the
process. So when we're in the kitchen chopping vegetables and making the dish, you know, if it's
me and Carolina, we play a little grab as if the kids are there, not so much. We have a conversation.
And then at the table, it's, you know, what happened today? And you shut up and listen,
which I know was hard to believe given how this calls going because I'm not really doing that.
But you listen. You ask questions. You let them come to their own answers. You guide them. You don't
pound your fist on the table and scream. This is the like, like you said, your friend's mom.
That's the worst thing you can do. You earn respect and that's earned when they're little.
If you ignore them when they're little, you're not going to have any respect when they're 13.
But when I can tell the kid and we would even tell them as we were doing things, you know, baby,
we had a rule. You had to do a sport. And if you didn't pick a sport, it was boxing and I did it
with them. And so that was talks in the car, time together. And I'd say, honey, it's killing me to
go to boxing today. I got a client. I'm going to be up late tonight. You're not going to see it.
But at one in the morning, I'm going to be working on a client's thing. But the clients at one in
the morning and you're right now, because you matter. You got to tell them, you can't be saying
demonious and guilt them. That was not meant to guilt my child into, oh my God, no, it was honey,
I love you. I would die for you. You matter more than I do. I enjoy this time. This time is important.
One day this time will mean something to you and way down the road when they're teenagers.
And look, they got to rebel some if they don't, something's wrong.
When that happens, it's so rare for me to say to one of my kids,
do this, you must, it's very rare. More commonly, if I feel very strongly about something and that
they're really headed in the wrong direction, I'm going to say, have I earned the right for you to
listen to my opinion? Yeah, right away. Yeah, did I do the things as a parent where you may not agree
with me? You know, I love you more than I love life itself. And I don't normally insist.
I'm going to have to insist. And that's not an order. You can, you cannot do it. But you've got
to at least listen. And I very strongly recommend you follow this course of action. And you can't
overuse that. Like anything else in life, if you throw down too much, you dilute it, it's no,
it loses its power. When I tell my kids, even in our worst moments of teenage rebellion,
oh my God, those years, especially with the middle one, he and I get along great now. But Lord,
did we go at it? And I very rarely would I say it, but when I would say, you know, this is one
of those times where I paid my dues and I earned my stripes, and I deserve your respect. And I
really need you to listen. Just please sit and honest to God, listen. But you got to put in
the time, you got to pay your dues. If you put them on top of a video gamer in front of the TV and
you ignore them, guess who's going to get ignored later? It's like that old song, the cats in the
cradle. Great song, it hurts. That's a painful song to listen to, because it makes you feel guilty.
It talks about the guy was never there for the kids. He was always too busy. It's an old 60s,
late 60s, early 70s. Listen to it. Cats in the cradle. Okay. And the guy was always working and
never there. And then it's changes. He wants to talk to his teenage son. And he's like, yeah,
I love to see you, dad. But can I have the car keys, please? And then at the end of the song,
he concludes with because he's in pain, he hurts his child's not spending time with him.
And he concludes with the painful words. He turned out just like me. Yikes.
That is hard. So we really, and thank God, again, my dad would actually play that song for us. So
again, I'm very fortunate to have a thoughtful parent. And me being fortunate doesn't make me
feel guilty and want socialism. It makes me want to have other people have a dad like I did.
Dad played that song for us when we were young. And he said, you know,
if you ever feel that way, I need to know because I don't want to be that guy.
I mean, how old were you when you played that for you? Seven. Seven. Wow. Oh, no. And I think about
it, you know, because on the one hand, I got the wasp and the Latino manly thing, right? You don't
cry in front of others, except my wife. And when I saw and when I watched Saving Private Ryan,
the kids know we're going to watch Saving Private Ryan. And dad's going to do two things. Dad is
going to cry because of what these because that movie, have you seen it? Oh, yeah. It shows what
war is. It shows what those boys and men went through. It shows you avoided at all costs. But
if you must fight, you buy God fight to win. No half assing that. And I also always going to make
the same joke. My kids, I know I'm not supposed to spoil the movie, but the Germans lose. So here's
a true story about my son. And it's just a personal thing now. I forget the name of the brand. You
know that food you get in the mail and you cook it? Like blue aprons are better. Yeah, blue. Yeah.
There's a really high in better version of it. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. Chair too high. Sorry about
that. I just had to move my there. So there's a better version. It'll come to me sunbasket.
I've never heard of sunbasket. Dude, I like food. I'm into food. Like if I'm going to get in
Puerto Rico, no, no, it's one of the things I miss. Like if you give me a list of shit I miss in
Puerto Rico, a really good gym, whole foods and sunbasket. So sunbasket and I'm a foodie. My
attitude is if I'm going to smoke cigars, it's going to be Cubans because if I'm getting lung
cancer, it's going to be worth it. If I'm going to drink, it's going to be this stuff we got in
front of us and we're going to screw up the liver and gain some calories. By God make it worth it.
Don't give me no shit. Lits or Budweiser. You ever had Bud Light? That's not even beer. I used to
buy delicious. Oh my God. Look, if you can see through it, you shouldn't drink it. That's my rule
with beer. With beer. See, I'm not a fan of the dark beer, the craft stuff. So this Germany screwed
me up. I used to think Bud Light was beer. In fact, I only heard two funny things in Germany. See,
the best thing about it is it's like water. That's for me. When it's hot out, when you're on the
beach out here in Florida and you drink Bud Light on the boat, you take the punchline, you shock on
them. You know the joke? No, what's the joke? Did you intentionally say what you just said? Like
no, I was going to say, no, no, no, no. What were you going to say? That's funny because you said
it's like water and you mentioned a boat. So one of the funny things I heard in Germany and you
don't hear a lot of funny things in Germany like humor is not really their thing. That's the Brits,
right? Raise your kids on Money Python and you'll screw them up just right. So in Germany,
what was the one joke? There were two jokes. The one I heard that I thought was funny.
How's American beer like having sex in a boat fucking close to water?
I love it. That's perfect. All right. So story about my son and then you tell me
where you want to go. We can do taxes. We can do asset protection. We can keep talking just stuff.
Whatever floats your boat. My son learns. By the way, I like these stories about raising your kid
because I have a 12 month old right now. So I'm absorbing it all. Okay. Remind me about the tyranny
of the dead. The tyranny of the dead. Okay. The tyranny of the dead. It's very important when it
comes to raising children. So we get these sunbasket meals and even by my foodie standards,
they're pretty good. I'm talking organic free range. So very good ingredients, fresh,
but also good recipes. Like the woman would insist, for example, no, this is how you sear
the chicken. And yeah, it's going to smoke and burn and scream and for a minute. And
the instructions for how to do it. And so for example, to get what they call the Maliard reaction,
that chemical reaction that sears meat that tastes so good on the outside of the meat.
These meals are just great. And I get nothing for promoting them crap. I mean,
if I don't know, I was going to mention them, I will put a link on my website so I could get
something out of this. So when we left for Puerto Rico, we were still getting those at his request.
And it comes out to like 12 bucks a meal, which for that quality of food, I'm like, yeah,
go for it. So you get the best of both worlds. It's delivered to the door. I don't have to go
shop. The portions are precisely measured. All you have to do is chop, mix, cook. And it comes out
almost every time just really good meals. So he has this young lady come over to the house,
and he doesn't call me to pick up girls. He's got that down. How old is he? He is now 21.
Okay. To give you an idea, though, again, very traditional. This is part of the tyranny of the
dead. The dead have experienced much more than you and I. They've lived their entire lives.
And you and I have not. They have more experience and experience matters a lot.
And so tradition is the tyranny of the dead. Tradition exists for a reason. Now,
sometimes things change and you change tradition. We could talk about the role of women and why
actually women were less valuable than men. Pre-industrial revolution, objectively speaking,
women were less valuable than men. On a farm, you had seven daughters, you died. If you had seven
sons, you had a big surplus. Why? Because it was a muscle-driven world. Same thing with warfare.
But it changed. The industrial and especially information revolutions made women equal,
along with Smith and Wesson. And so their roles have changed and tradition had to be altered.
But we alter tradition with humility and care. Everyone thinks they know everything.
Let me tell you what, the dead people know more than we do. The tyranny of the dead is tradition.
And so tradition, because you mentioned, you know, my son, how old was he? When he was two,
and I would leave to go travel and speak, I always asked him and he still remembers it.
Son, I'm leaving the house. Who's the man of the house? I am dead. What do men do? We respect
and care for our women. Man, he's got that down to the bone. We respect and care for women.
And that's just, and you can tell, the girls, they know it. They know they got one.
That he's going to do okay and he's going to treat him right. Just be a man. What we thought
a man should be. So back to the food story, he doesn't call me to learn how to pick up women,
which is good because I was never really that good at it. I did it right once and it worked.
So he's great at that. Between manners, not being a little bitch boy like so many boys are
nowadays, not being buried in his little video game console like so many of them are,
not being a little mama's boy who was brought up mostly by the mom and not by the dad and
doesn't know how to act like a man and to treat a woman. And I'm not saying, by the way, for the
ladies out there in that position, here's what I'm telling you. I'm not trying to crack on you.
It is what it is if you're in that position. Just make sure there's men in those boys' lives.
That's why I was in the Boy Scout troop. That's, you know, when we coached debate,
when I was in the boxing thing, we took kids shooting, they got to have both. Like if it's
a guy out there, you got to have a woman in the life. There's stuff that women bring to the table
in general that your kid, boy or girl, is going to need. You got to have them around both. You got
to have balance. So J4, that's what we nickname him because I'm John M. Hyer, the third. So he's
the fourth. We just call him J4. So J4, he has no trouble picking up the women. He's very good at
it, better than he wants to be at times. He always calls me when he wants to let one go and be nice
because the first time he dumped a girl, he did what young men do, which is when she asked why he
told her. And I'm like, no, no, no, no. He was too blunt. I mean, in her case, it was eighth grade.
And he flat out told her, yeah, you have a bad reputation for being loose. Well, even if that's
true, that's really not how you say it, right? Women take things differently than we do. I can
say that to a guy and not scar him. With women, you can send a message without being that direct.
In fact, if you're too direct at times, you hurt them. Depends on the nature of the woman. I'm
generalizing a lot. But bottom line is when he broke up with someone, he did not want to hurt
her any more than was necessary. It was already unpleasant. He was the one breaking up with her.
So he would call me to say, how do I do this and not hurt this lady? That's why he would call. So
he calls me with one of them. And he's like, I don't know what happened. What do you mean? So
before we talk about how to let her down gently, like a gentleman, to show some compassion and
some decency. And how do you word that? Because just like anything else, sometimes compassion and
decency take a little practice, especially in a context where the person sitting across from you
thinks very differently. Women and men tend to think differently. They look at things differently.
So I said, all right, so how did you get into this? Tell me the background. I want to know
some before I can answer. Well, she came over to study. What did she come over to quote unquote
study? Or did she come over to actually study? No, he said it was actual studying and not studying.
Okay, fair enough. I just want to know that's part of the context. Then what happened? Well,
I made one of those sunbasket meals for her. John, you cooked for a chick without having intention?
Yeah. No, no, no, God, and you cooked sunbasket. Yeah, those are really good meals, John. So you
don't do that without intention unless it's someone that's a close enough friend. She knows it's just
a friend thing. Like there are a few girlfriends he has that are such friends that there's nothing
romantic. They would know that him making a meal for her is not a signal. So then it gets better
because he is totally my wife's kid. Like he's the one that acts the most like her. I said, John,
I'm thinking, Oh, okay, I think I know where this went. When you cooked for that girl.
Did you give her because we're very liberal about wine and the family we're Latins.
And so you water down the wine for the kids, but they start when they're six.
You teach them it's not this thing that's bad. It's not good. It has to be controlled.
That's all you got to know yourself. Now some people can't control it. We all have this thing,
whatever it is, video games, wine, whatever, we all got our thing or things that we're not
real good at never will be. But we try to teach them the respect, the alcohol, enjoy it and we
would water it down. So I said, you gave her wine. I said, let me guess, it was red wine, wasn't it?
Yeah, because that's what my wife, she drinks red wine. Again, red wine sends its lady in the tramp.
It sends a different message than white wine. There's a certain ambience that's being created
without him realizing he's creating it. I said, John, did you put on your mother's mix from,
I forget what it like Pandora or whatever that streaming service was that she had at the time.
Did you put your mother's cooking mix because she always played the same music when she cooked?
Yeah, that's what we cook to as a family. Not everybody cooks to Frank Sinatra, Johnny.
Did you put on because my wife insists so we don't screw up our clothing. We all have to wear
a damned apron. I feel like a little sissy, but we all have to wear an apron. Yeah.
Did you put on an apron? Yeah. Last but not least, your mother being very Latin.
When she cooks, she moves her butt. She's dancing around and cooking and she's in the, you know,
in the B. Of course. So let me get this straight, John. You don't understand why this girl's really
into you and looking at you like she wants to have your baby. You invited her to the house alone.
You served her wine. You played Sinatra. You cooked her a brilliant meal.
You had on an apron and you shook your ass while you cooked that meal. Let me tell you,
she's not into you after all that. She's really not into you. But that was from our tradition.
That's what we do. Yeah. And it had a great impact. You spend the time
interesting with them and you talk while you're doing something fun.
And they're also picky as hell about food, which I'm glad for. They're very picky about what they
eat. Not in the bad sense. Yeah, that's a good thing. They won't try stuff. That's only a good
thing. They demand quality and they know how to cook. I do a thing similar. The only thing that
I do, let's go to that, is a thing called Butcher Box. You remember that? That's good meat. Yeah,
it's meat all off like small independent, you know, small family farms and not those big
factory farms that chop up all those cattle. And yeah, look, the nice thing is if you can afford
it because the factory farm meat's cheap. That's the advantage. It's cheap. You can feed a lot of
people. It's actually not that much of a difference. We pay like 150 bucks a month
for all of our meat. And we get a shitload of stuff. We get ground beef, we get chicken,
we get salmon. Man, dude, if you weigh it, there's a big difference in price. And you and I can do
that. And in fairness, I mean, I didn't grow up with a silver spoon. I made what I am, both the
good and the bad. I own it all, the screw ups and the good part. But I got Butcher Box and that,
you're paying close to double. Dude, go to Kroger. I don't know, man. I don't do the grocery
shopping. So I don't know for sure, but we get enough to feed us for the month. And it's like
150 bucks. Yeah, we liked it. I mean, it's look, it's great, high quality stuff. Like I described
the ingredients for the, I already forgot the name or whatever the hell I was, I was getting.
What was it? Blue box? Something like that? It left my head. It'll come back. I'm so ADD on stuff
like that, man. It's amazing that I remember my own name. Sunbasket. So similar, just high quality
ingredients. Because look, I want to eat, it just makes common sense to me. If you can afford it,
I want to eat what we evolved to eat. And changing that, maybe it's okay. Maybe the Monsanto people
are right. I don't know. Maybe they're not. Who are the Monsanto people? They're into GMOs, big time.
They're like really behind GMOs. What is Monsanto? It's a big company. If you Google it,
you'll see a lot of, so I don't know if it's conspiracy theory or it's real. Here's what I
think on that. I think most conspiracy theories are bull. I mean, think about it, especially with
Americans. For a conspiracy theory to work, a lot of people have to blab. Well, with normal people,
much less Americans who really like to blab, the old saying is three people can keep a secret if
two are dead. I mean, stuff leaks. So there's this idea that Monsanto corruptly makes us all eat
GMOs that are really bad for us. And look, it could be true. To keep us stupid, slow. I wouldn't go
that far. Maybe there's some of that conspiracy. I would say it's just in order to make money.
There are two sides to the story. And it's not one I've dug into terribly deeply. On the one hand,
the stuff they've done allows the world to not starve. The kind of, for example,
insect-resistant cotton they've created through genetic tampering has allowed cotton to grow
in places it wouldn't, or wheat, or corn, or whatever. And it's made food cheaper and more
accessible and defied the predictions of people like Paul Ehrlich, who bet that we were going to
starve to death by now. And we haven't because of, among other things, those sorts of advancements.
Now, there's another side to that where people think, all right, we may have a lot of the issues
we're having, like autism, because we eat that. And for example, in Europe, they're very anti-GMO.
They don't do a lot of that. And they could be right. I don't know. I think it's one of those
things where you need data in time. The problem is, is when you get the data, if it turns out it was
a bad idea, that's going to be some ugly data and a lot of lives messed up. So my personal
philosophy is, granted, I can afford to pay double. I can afford whole food prices or
butcher box. I'm going to eat what I think I was evolved to eat. And when people, because the
things we eat evolved, but slowly, the scientists are changing it very quickly. Do we know the
effects of that for certain? We don't. And humility, my God, think about it. We live in
right now in the time of coronavirus. We want to talk about some humility with science. There's a
lot we don't know. And it's being proved to us right now. So, and then throw in the subjectivity
of science like we discussed. You don't want to come up with the wrong answer or you might get
fired. And now you really kind of start to wonder, how much do we know? Hey, it beats the crap out
of living 100. I would rather be alive today, middle class, than be a king 150 years ago.
Oh, for sure. Kid me. So we've made a lot of advances, but sometimes we think maybe it's
more than it is. And I think this virus is really inducing a lot of humility. We just don't know.
And people don't want to admit that, especially the government, right? Because what's their
excuse to rule over you? Well, we know better. We're smarter than you. And we're better than
you morally. We're better people. And we're smarter people. So we have to have an answer.
I don't know is not really a good answer. But that's where cultures are different. You know,
I'll give Angela Merkel, leader of Germany credit. She told the Germans and they accepted it.
Because they're a pretty rational culture. They got their issues like, you know,
invading others periodically and so on. But she told them, listen, I think the number was roughly,
she said 60 to 80% of you are going to get this. You know, that kind of honesty here would be
refreshing. Because it is going to happen. Slow it down for sure. I think the initial lockdown,
like maybe the first month, when we had no idea what we were dealing with, like, is this going
to be a lot of dead people, lots and lots and lots of dead people? Is it going to be like Italy?
Or what we think came out of Wuhan? And I have to say what we think came out because you can't
trust a damn thing the Chinese government says. Good Lord, the Chinese government makes the Mexican
government look honest and efficient. I mean, but we didn't know. It's easy to, you know,
after the fact say, Oh, here's, you know, of course, but we didn't know. So the idea was to
slow it down, give us some time to react. And I think it did that at great cost.
Probably passed the point where we need to do that. I think we're seeing that the death rates
are a lot lower. We're still not sure about some of the long term effects. But look, I still have
a scar on my lungs from pneumonia. Every time I get an x-ray, if it's a new doctor, he'll be like,
What's that? That's not good. I want to look at that. Let's get closer. Like no, no, no, no, no, no.
Here's an old x-ray from when I was 20 and 30 and 40. That spot's been there. We think it was a
pneumonia scar. So these, these viruses have an effect. We just don't know with this one yet.
So I wouldn't underestimate it. I normally wear a mask. I think it's courteous. I think it's just
common courtesy. And I know this is where people get crazy. The ear on both sides, the irrationality
of the mask thing. And again, I think common sense. All right, does this spread via spit? Yeah.
Does the mask stop some spit? Yeah. Like these guys who argue, well, you know,
if I fart through underwear, the fart molecules still reach your nose. All right. So the virus is
a heat seeking missile that goes through my mask, jumps out of the spit and seeks you out. Yeah.
No, come on. Now there is a point about you got to use them right. And it's got to be the right ones.
But the same people who tend to be very anti mask, you know, this is my freedom. You can't make me
wear a mask. Really? Why not? Well, because they don't do any good. Why not? I think they stop some
spit. Sure. No, people misuse them. So if people misuse something, they shouldn't have it or use
it. They shouldn't use it if they misuse it. That's right. So how about guns? Right. How about seat
belts? Yeah. Well, don't but you hit those guys on guns. And don't get me wrong. I'm usually on
their side. It's embarrassing. I'm a big freedom guy. I'm 80% libertarian. Yeah. My fundamental,
my primary political value is liberty. I think your default position is leave everyone else the
fuck alone and mind your own fucking business. Yep. But you should also help people. Liberty
doesn't work if you have a shit culture. And that's what's happening in this country, our culture's
dying. Like why can't you have liberty in Iraq? There's nothing racially wrong with them. They're
humans. Culturally, they're not ready for it. They don't have certain prerequisites that a culture
needs. We're losing those prerequisites and some of its inability to discuss and have or to do the
right thing. Here's where libertarians get me going. Well, I don't believe the government should
help starving people. Okay. What do you think we should do? Well, they never say you should just
let them starve because that's not going to go well and they know it. A few do and you just kind
of like, yeah, go back to the Star Trek convention. You know, you're not needed here. Well, people
will help. But then when you look at how they actually live their lives, they don't. That's
troublesome. We had a culture that used to do a lot more of that. Now, some of it is that government
stepped in and does so much that people don't feel the need to do so. And that that corrodes the culture.
I mean, all these intertwining things we're discussing. Yeah, no, yeah, there's so much.
And a lot of people freak out when it comes to the masks, they freak out, they think they're
thinking like, Oh, wow, what if people start finding you for not wearing a mask? Like it's a slippery
slope, if they start making us wear a mask, you know, where's it going to go? And like I mentioned,
it's the same thing with seatbelts. Yeah, now see, the seatbelts I don't think are justified. So
my threshold is about it's all about what's your threshold? At what point do I have a right to
interfere with your liberty? The Democrats think they have the right to do it on anything economic
immediately and take 80% of your stuff. You want to fund ask a Democrat, what's the limit? In other
words, how much of my income can you take? And if you still haven't solved all the world's problems,
you admit that you probably shouldn't take more of my income. Man, they will avoid that question
like you wouldn't believe. They will avoid that question. And that's my issue. You know, because
there's a difference. There's ideology. So I'm a conservative constitutionalist Republican. Again,
let's paraphrase that as a libertarian with a little bit more violent tendencies.
Where's the limit? Politically, I could make a compromise with Democrats and say, you know,
let's have universal health care, but here are the limits. For example, we're not going to pay for
everything. When you're on, when you're getting it from someone else, you're not entitled to have
every single thing. We're going to limit it to, I don't know, 5% of GDP, 12% of tax revenue, whatever,
but I want to limit. They never want to limit. Why? Because they're utopians. We're going to do this
until every child has perfect medical care. Well, let me think that'll be never, which means you've
given yourself an unlimited license to power. So you can't compromise or negotiate. Let's say I
agree to a tax increase. I'm like, we have a deal, right? We got a deal. This is the tax. Nope. As
soon as that goes up, they'll come back with, well, we need another one. So you can't make a deal
with them politically. And that's why we're in this civil war we're in, which right now is just a
cold political civil war for now, because you can't compromise with them because they won't keep a
deal. And it always goes in one direction, right? They don't want to compromise on how much do we
cut taxes. The only way you cut taxes is without them doing it. You have enough of a majority
that they're not involved. But when it's time to raise taxes, well, I mean, it's the classic real
estate negotiating, right? I think we should raise it 30 points. Well, how about five? And then you
settle on 15. You still lost, right? That's my issue, man. Those people are never satisfied.
What do you think about universal basic income? I think it's a terrible idea.
Really? Yeah. Why? Because A, philosophically, I don't think I should be paying for your
livelihood. I think we should make giving everyone money is stupid. I can see the argument for the
people who truly need it. And I mean, truly need it, really, really, truly need it. And I would
make it uncomfortable and attach a stigma. I want it to be uncomfortable that you're taking money
that was seized from others by force. Universal basic income, here's what's going to happen.
You're going to have a lot of people do nothing. A lot of the deaths of despair,
overdoses, suicides are people who have no purpose or meaning in their lives. And that's why they
turn to Trump or woke politics or whatever. Right. So now I pay you because work provides
meaning. And there is some excellence and beauty and wonder in, I did this thing, I created this
thing. I did that. And it helped someone else. There is some meaning in, yeah, I did some menial
job that nobody appreciates. But you know what? I put bread on the table for my family. I'm a good
guy. I'm a good lady. I did the right thing. That has meaning. When you tell people you don't have
to work, people are going to have even less meaning than they do now. They're going to resort to video
games and drugs. They're not going to go sit down and cure cancer at home. But I don't think you're
telling people they don't have to work necessarily by doing that. I think you're, in a way, you're
incentivizing people to, I mean, for one, stay out of jail, stay at a prison. People who have to
commit crime. So in other words, don't steal because we'll do it for you. If I have more than
enough money to provide for myself and my family, I want to help. I want to help people. I think
it's the right thing to do. I think I feel strongly that if I can help people who necessarily can't
necessarily find a way and help them provide for themselves or for their families and help keep
people out of prison and help make this place a better place to be and a better place to live in,
then why wouldn't I want to do that? Well, let's be more specific. The words you used were, I want
to help, which I'm all for. And I believe in it. I have a blessed life and I know it. And I don't
feel guilty. I feel grateful and I want to help and I do help. Does that give you a right to put a
gun in my head and say, John, you'll be helping as well. And then let's say the answer is, yeah,
actually, John, it does give me that right because you're a selfish bastard and you're not going to
help enough to satisfy me in my judgment. All right. First of all, let's be clear. Whatever you
believe in, it's not freedom. That's the antithesis of freedom. I'm not saying no tax. I think the
idea of all taxes being voluntary or lunacy, that's a libertarian just fantasy that can
never work. It's a threshold. Am I willing to put a gun to your head in order to raise money for a
military? Because if we don't have a military and a good one, it's really, really, really,
really, really bad because the guy next door invades us and now you have no freedom. Yeah,
I think it's a threshold issue. What are the things that I'm willing to force you to cooperate?
And it's a short list. Because if it's not a short list, I don't believe in freedom. I believe I
know better than you. I believe I am more intelligent. I believe I am more moral, which is how most
professionals, educated people and professors think, I am smarter than you rubs. I'm a better
person than you rubs. And I'm actually doing this for your own good. And you are too stupid
and ignorant to understand, A, how intelligent and moral I am, B, that this is good for you.
And therefore, you must be forced for your own good. I don't like government at all. The only
reason I tolerate it philosophically is for some things you need it. Like the example, if you
don't have a military, the guy next door does, you get invaded, you're done. So you've got to have a
military. But it brings dangers. Can the military be turned on its own citizenry? Yeah. So it's an
imperfect world. What's the less, what's the least bad answer? Well, we have a military and we try
and control it and keep it for firing on its own citizens and abusing this massive power of violence
that it has. What you're proposing is to give politicians the power openly. Like I'm all for
you can tax for the military and certain essential things. What you're saying is,
I want the politician to have the power to take money from one guy and give it to another if
it's going to help. Well, we're already doing that, right? Yeah, it's a and here's the problem.
Here's I want to I'm going to tell you how this ends. I'm going to tell you how it always ends.
The founders knew this. They knew this experiment would end this way. Democracy always ends in
bankruptcy. Always. People vote for free stuff, except it ain't free.
Eventually, they destroy the finances of the country. And that's such a tame, dry sentence.
I have to find a better way to put it. Let me tell you what happens when you inflate the currency.
Which is what we're doing. We're already there. We're spending more.
We are spending more than we tax. If we were to tax more, that would have serious negative effects.
It's not like guys like me, I'm not going to sit there and keep working and making what I make.
If you're going to go and take half of it, why work, right? If I'm giving the guy over here
his health care for nothing, why should he work? And if I'm being taxed past a certain point,
I'm going to work way less. I'm going to make just enough that I don't hit that point. And
then I'm going to stop. Why work? It's human nature. It's incentives. So it's one thing. And here's
the trick. Yeah, but if it levels the playing field, you're still going to work. The playing
field will never be leveled, first of all. That's not human nature. Some are smarter.
Some are better raised. Some are. I mean, tax wise.
Wait a minute. The playing field, we are the most of the events. We're competitive. We're
competitive, right? We're competitive by nature. If everybody across the board is taxed the same
amount of money, therefore, we work X amount and we let's let's back up. So are you suggesting a
flat income tax? No, no, no, I'm just simply I'm simply stating you basically said that if you
were taxed above a certain amount, you would stop working because you said why work, right?
Most people would. There are some who are competitive enough. They'll work anyway.
But I think you would agree a lot of people would be like, you know, I'm making enough.
Most of what I make beyond this gets taken away from me. So unless there's some separate
majorly significant meaning, my ass is on the beach. I think a very large number of people,
including the people that are uniquely brilliant and able to drive innovation and so forth would
take that approach. And I don't think that's hypothetical. I mean, look at the Soviet system
and people, oh, that's so extreme. Well, no, but we look at the extremes and kind of project.
Where do you end up? People, why work in the Soviet Union? The old joke in the Soviet Union was is
they pretend to pay us and we pretend to work. I mean, but they lived horrible,
miserable, awful lives. Furthermore, when you give the government that kind of power,
here's the problem. When you tell a politician, look, in order to help people,
you have the power to take money from one guy and give it to another. And you get to determine
who needs what happens every time. You get you get an example, you get an exception one out of
100, the philosopher king who actually does a good job. But by and large, what's the nature of
politicians? They want power, right? What's the old Greek philosophical, I forget who said it,
which was one of the Greek philosophers, the guy who wants power the most should be the last one
who has it. By nature, if you look at the people who run for office in the US by nature, they want
it bad because you see what they have to go through to get it. I mean, it's it's shit up to your
shoulders. You don't want to Trump. Absolutely ruin your fucking life. Trump Trump's a funny.
He's sort of a little bit of an exception to the rule who's reverting to the meme. So I don't think
Trump intended to win. Really? I think it was a stunt because he's run before. I think it was a
stunt. And he came he what he did have see Trump has no morals. And Trump has no ideology at all.
None, which is part of what I dislike about him intensely. He does have common sense and cunning.
And he has a sense of what people are thinking. For example, on illegal immigration, he knew it
wasn't PC to say it, but he knew a lot of people, including a lot of people who said they were
Democrats were against it. Yeah, for sure. So Trump, I think Trump was surprised that Trump won.
I think the morning after he was kind of like that poodle that chased a car and fucking caught it.
Now what? Yeah.
I think you're right. And now why is he into it? Because now his ego is invested. And that's the
number one thing that Trump is his ego. Ain't nothing not even not even Melania comes before
the ego and that's saying something. Melania. So going back to a universal basic income.
Now let's talk I mean, I'm against it. First of all, okay, I think it's going to have a very
bad impact on incentives. When you tax people for working, and you pay them to not work, and you're
doing both, you're going to have a lot less people working, not everyone will quit like you said,
some other people are driven by other things. But productivity and advancement. You know,
my dad's alive because of something they invented 10 years ago. It's a heart procedure that has to
do with lasers and sealing off arteries and it just goes in through the artery. And they don't
have to cut you open anymore. Okay. That stops. Or at least get greatly slowed, greatly slowed.
This prosperity we take for granted isn't it's an historical anomaly. There are certain things
that made it happen. One of them was security in your property, which are proposing is the
opposite. Insecurity in my property, you can take it and redistribute it. I don't have any property
rights unless you say I do. That doesn't, it sounds nice, it never works. Now, that's my philosophy.
What are things going to happen? I think we're going to have it. Here's what's going to happen.
Actually, it's happening now. Things are going to get so bad that people are going to turn to
whoever promises whatever. We're there. Right. All these checks getting handed out have to be.
The problem is, is we pissed away our reserves on buying political popularity and both sides.
For example, one way to print money is to lower interest rates. It's an indirect form,
but it is what you're doing. It's very popular because the economy booms. So instead of lowering
rates during a desperate time when we needed lower rates, the Democrats and Republicans both
starting, I would say, with Clinton on. So Bush was a big part of the problem.
Lowered rates just for popularity and winning elections. And when it came time and we needed
the reserve, the ability now to like, Hey, we need to stimulate dropping rates now from whatever
they are. I don't know, 1% to zero makes no difference. You pissed away your gunpowder,
shooting in the air and having fun. And when the bad guy showed up at the door, you were out of
powder. That's where we're at. So the only solution is to print money. Now, this leads to a lot of
other segues. First of all, I think it was John Mulden, a real good columnist I like and respect,
wrote a piece and he made a great analogy. He says, when you pass the event horizon on a black hole,
so you got a black hole in space, the event horizon is the part where once your ship goes
past, no matter how much power it has, you can't get out. It's like Niagara Falls. Once you get
close enough, you're going over, buddy. We're there. Second, as interest rates approach zero,
just as light approaches a black hole, the very laws of physics and finance change.
And we're there. So what do you do?
I think we're going to have a universal basic income for the same reason right now that we're doing
the $600 a week and Trump said 400. Now they're fighting over it. They're doing big handouts.
Why are they doing these handouts to keep people from panicking? Because as soon as the panic hits,
that's when things get bad. That's when you get the guy on the white horse, Trump, Obama,
Lenin, Hitler. That's when things get bad. People get desperate when they get afraid.
Things crash. The system stops working. A lot of people have a lot invested in the system.
So they're going to print whatever amount of money they need to print in order to keep people
from panicking. People have got to be able to pay their bills. If they can't pay their bills,
panic ensues. And that's on both sides. The Trump and the Democrats are quibbling over how much
the Democrats are like, yeah, we want people used to a universal basic income. This is it.
We're here. Trump's like, wait a minute, a lot of these people don't want to go back to work.
Have you talked to small businesses? How hard it is to hire? Because people are being paid more to
stay at home. Think about it. The feds added $600 a week to an average of about $250 a week to
unemployment. That's $850 a week to sit home. How many people don't make that much and are happy
to sit home as long as you want to pay them? So where does this go? Where does this lead to?
Where do you think this goes? What do you think happens next? Inflation. We'll have deflation
and inflation. They'll do anything to avoid deflation. That's the Great Depression. That's
really bad. What does inflation do? It allows everyone to pay their debts off nice and cheap,
including the government. So you got to put yourself in the position of the government so
that when they do the thing to protect their position, they're protecting your position.
The problem is that position is contrary to common sense. Here's what I mean.
Let's say for one day the government makes a law. It's going to be like the purge, but a little
lighter. They make a law for a day that anyone who has gold that you can find has to sell you the
gold at $30 an ounce. What do you do? Let's say you've got no gold. What do you do? You're going to
go buy as much gold as you can, aren't you? Because the price is artificially low. We agree?
Right. Money is artificially cheap. I see it. My parents played by the rules their whole lives,
saved up X amount of money, and they don't have an income because interest rates are artificially
cheap. You can't invest in bonds and have a nice study income now at market rates. What's a market?
People use that term so wrongly. You know, all the market is, you and I make a deal free. You
have free volition. There are two ways to make a deal. There are two ways to have commerce. Either
we both agree or one of us forces the other. So if we agreed on interest rates, I can tell you
they wouldn't be a freaking 1% or whatever they're at. That's artificial manipulation. So they've
made money artificially cheap. It's kind of like what the Soviets did. The Soviets were dumber about
it. Think this through. Here's how the Soviet Union worked. It's really similar. We'll have
committee, lots of men with guns. You do as told. We say tomatoes cost this much.
Experts say onions cost that much. Let us cost this much. Put price on everything.
That's a good accent. My Russian friends are horrified. The ones who came over, I had this
conversation. They are horrified. The ones who came from Russia because they're like,
you idiots are doing what we did. This does not work. So what did we do? We're more efficient.
We're like, well, shit, pricing everything. That didn't work. Takes a lot of effort. Seems
inefficient. We'll just price money, which buys everything. So for political purposes, both parties
have driven interest rates to near zero, which is a huge distortion. It changes your incentives.
You don't have an incentive to save cash. It doesn't produce an income, which makes huge
opportunities, by the way, for real estate investors now because everyone's chasing return.
That's why prefectives have become so popular. I predicted this years ago just privately with
friends because it's not like I'm a known person who predicts things in the public listens.
But just with friends, I'm like, you watch. There's going to be way more prefectives and
way less profit sharing. In other words, instead of your 50-50 deal, you're going to see a lot more.
I'm giving you a 10% preferred dividend. It's not even going to be a loan. We're not giving
you that kind of security. And if you look at a lot of the offerings out there, it's come to be.
Why? There's a chase for return. Why? Because interest rates are artificially low. There's no
return there. So people go elsewhere to seek return. What's the problem? They're forced to
take more risk to get those returns. What's the problem? My parents are 70. They can't afford
to take a lot of risk. They can't bounce back. So they played by the rules and are being punished
for it. And it changes everybody's incentives. What's my incentive? Money is artificially cheap.
I want as much of it as I can. Same as the gold. If gold's artificially cheap for a day,
I'm going to go out and buy it at $30 an ounce as much as I can. Money is artificially cheap,
subject to you finding a productive place to put it. That's the key. But it goes against common
sense. If my house is free and clear, can I go bankrupt? No. Only way I can lose it is not to
pay property taxes, especially in a place like Florida where you get complete homestead protection.
But now my incentive is to borrow as much as I can. The question is how much and you have to
have some discipline. Money is artificially cheap. The people who have debt on assets are going to
do well when this is all over because we're going to have inflation. We are. And then there's all
these theories, modern monetary theory, and it's different this time somehow. It's always that this
time is different, right? This time Obama, the socialist, it's going to work. This time Biden.
Explain that again. People who have debt, I'm sorry, you're explaining this like I'm running on
four cylinders and you're running on 12 right now. So people who have debt are going to win. How?
Because, all right, I go by, let's just take easy numbers. These are not the numbers I recommend.
We'll get into better numbers soon. Okay. With inflation, the amount of my debt doesn't change,
the value of the collateral does. Okay. So I go borrow 100 grand, I buy a house that today is
worth 100. Okay. If there's inflation, let's say the house is worth 200,000 in two years,
but it didn't actually go up in value. It's that the currency is being depreciated.
It takes more currency to buy the same house. It takes double the amount of dollars to buy
the same house. Why? Because we're printing them. And we're printing them in a lot of different
ways. We don't call it that, but there are many different ways to create more dollars.
It's very sophisticated and subtle. One example is lowering interest rates. Another example is
changing reserve ratio requirements at the banks. There are a couple of ways they do this.
Do we agree to make sure before I go on that if I print more money, it takes more money to buy
something? If I print more money, does it take more money to buy something? In other words,
let's say the government tomorrow doubles the amount of cash and circulation. Okay.
Will that change the price of things? All of a sudden, all these people have more little green
pieces of paper. Are they going to go out and buy a lot of shit? Yeah, of course. What happens when
people buy a whole bunch of stuff, supply and demand? What happened when people started buying
AR-15s? A lot of them. Shotguns. Dude, you can't get a shotgun for lover money. Right? Yay, Antifa.
So there's more demand. If people have more money, they're going to go buy more. It's going to drive
prices up. Right. Okay. So you print enough money. I don't know how much it is, but you print enough
money. The house now in dollars is 200,000. And we've seen this, like Zimbabwe, Weimar Germany,
Argentina, here in the 70s and early 80s. I have a, sorry to interrupt. I have a
only way to get a word in, man. You got interrupted. I have a $100 trillion bill from Zimbabwe.
That's what happens when you print money. It's worth like five bucks.
That's what happens when you keep printing. Now, there's different velocities. Obviously,
we're not printing at quite that rate. So you keep printing money. So the price of everything
goes up. And that's part of the dissatisfaction, by the way. It's been very uneven. For example,
take a look at the rate of increase in college tuition compared to anything else. And there are
reasons for that. You know what the reasons for that are? I didn't mean for this to be a good
example, but it is. There's more dollars. Why do college tuitions go up? Because the government
keeps subsidizing more loans and grants. If the universities, if there's a pull of money
that the universities can reach and that pull grows, will they increase their prices? Not only
will they, they have. And by the way, this is the compassionate socialist caring, non-greedy
professors who will ruthlessly raise tuition if there's more money to be taken from students.
These compassionate, caring, wonderful, wonderful professors ask them. They'll tell you
repeatedly how nice they are. They don't give a shit if you have 250 grand in student debt
and only get paid 25 grand a year because their degree was worthless. But that's a good example.
The feds by saying, look, there's this amount of cash available to spend on education. We're
going to create a lot of cash via loans and grants and guarantees. There's this extra cash for
education. What has happened to prices in education? They've gone up. What would happen
if they cut off the loans? Among other things, prices would drop. This is just another version
of that. Okay. So I buy a house worth 100 today. We print money. In dollars, the house is worth 200
in, I don't know, four years. The loan's still 100. Right. I pay off the loan. Now I got 100.
Mm-hmm. The guys who have the loans end up better off when there's inflation.
That makes sense. That would explain why the price of houses, specifically single-family
homes right now, I don't know about commercial real estate, are insane.
Well, go ahead. Sorry. No, you're good. Go ahead. Interrupt me whenever. And
everything's flying off the market instantaneously. Here's the reason for that,
because I was surprised. I'm still selling my last few rentals that we bought during the
last crash, so I can have cash to buy more during the next one that we're living.
So with COVID, the number of buyers went way down. Fewer people with jobs, people are insecure,
they're not getting out. Makes sense. There are fewer buyers. But the number of sellers went down
even more. As in, I don't want you in my house with your COVID shit, take the listing off the
market. So right now, what we're seeing, and again, because my clients are investors, so I hear from
them, they talk to me. So we went through and just researching and thinking and talking, it's that.
It's that the number of buyers have dropped, but the number of sellers have dropped even more.
And therefore, what inventory there is, is moving like this. This is the time to sell.
This is the time to sell for sure. Yeah, this is the time to sell, because here's what's going to
happen. Remember panic? At some point, people are going to panic. That's why the Republicans,
when the Republicans and Democrats agree, you got to get suspicious, right? Then you're like,
yeah, something's wrong in the world here. They're disagreeing on how much to hand out.
They're not disagreeing on handing out. None of them. Why? Elections are coming up. Plus,
it's the panic. It's like in an avalanche. I can't predict which pebble will start the avalanche,
but I know if that pebble moves, we got a problem. I don't know what'll cause a panic,
but I know if we have a panic, it's going to be really, really bad. This will cause the great
depression, right? People went in and started taking money out of the bank. They panicked.
They didn't trust the banks with some reason, but the banks didn't have enough money to pay out,
so they started crashing. Then there weren't loans, and then it just keeps cascading.
People do stupid things when they panic. They do stupid things when they're greedy. It's greed
and fear that drive things. We'd prefer to keep them in greed mode. Keep buying.
So what do you see your big investor clients doing right now?
Cash.
It depends. Now, first of all, the clients tend to be, very few of them are polymaths,
even in real estate.
Someone who's really good at a lot of things. Thomas Jefferson was a genius in 15 different
ways. Most real estate investors that make a lot of money that I know are mainly good at that.
They got their thing, and they can adapt some, especially as they get older and have some
experience. So here's what I'm seeing. Self-storage, for those who know how to find it, is still doing
well. So I'm seeing people buy that. Airbnb's are converting to long-term. That'll come back
once people start traveling, but for now they're converting over to long-term.
I'm seeing a lot of people right now flipping hot. The risk is when the music stops, when the
fear hits, are you stuck with inventory like, oh wait, so right now flipping is hot. Why? Because
there's not very many sellers. So if you've got something to sell, but you've got to get that
shit off your hands, you got to have enough of a reserve that if you get stuck with some inventory,
you're still going to be okay. You can run out the inventory and ride it through as opposed
to be jacked up on inventory. What else am I seeing? A lot of cash. A lot of people sitting and
waiting. Oh yeah, Bolcher Central. When do you think the crash, the bubble's going to pop?
You don't know. That's the problem. That's like asking me, John, which pebble is going to move
and when on that slope it's going to cause the avalanche? I can't tell you. I can tell you it's
going to happen. People predict it though. Aren't people talking about it? Don't people have
suspicions when it might happen in general? Here's what this is. This is like saying,
Aunt Emma, who's 92, and has lung cancer and a really bad heart. We know what's going to happen.
Could you tell me the day and the hour? Exactly. No, I can just tell you what's going to happen.
And the only answer the government has is print. And if it gets bad enough, create programs to put
people to work like they did in Hitler's Germany or under Franklin Roosevelt. We have that. It's
called prison. Well, that's a different issue. Yeah, I don't want to get into that. We would agree
on some. We grossly over criminalize things. Look, I'm a lawyer. This is what I do. I don't
even know all the tax law. That's how complex it is. Much less all the other law law. Here's what
I can guarantee you. You want to read a good book. Go look up three felonies a day.
What it basically says is that you commit three felonies a day without knowing it. The law is so
vast, millions of pages, that you're a criminal and you don't know it. And if somebody wanted to dig
enough, they could make you into a criminal. And that gets into other issues. Our justice system
is screwed up. See, that's where Trump has actually done something, which he gets no credit for from
the press because they hate him. And that's where some of the BLM guys loosened up on some of the
laws in terms of what gets you put in prison is decriminalizing a certain amount of things.
And I have to look the details up. What exactly do you do to decriminalize? I don't know that
off the top of my head. I know he's moving in that direction and agrees with it.
Nonviolent drug offenders? I got mixed emotions on that one. Such mixed feelings. Here's my ultimate
solution on drugs, but it's not when it's going to happen. So here's my ideology
that is probably not politically possible. I believe in liberty. You want to take drugs?
Great, knock yourself down. You should be able to do it. But with the liberty comes responsibility.
So if you take drugs and you become addicted and you can't feed yourself and you starve and
die in the gutter, too bad. In fact, I agree. You're a good example for everybody else to think
twice because people are like, well, drug addiction is a sickness. Well, yeah, it's when you give
yourself that first time was a choice. I think there's a country where it's actually, I forget
which country it is, but there's a country where it's legal to do heroin. You have to literally
go to the doctor and the doctor's like, okay. It's either the Netherlands or the Switzerland
or both. You're going to die. This is really bad for you. Are you sure you want to do this?
You're going to destroy your life. You're going to destroy everyone else's life. You're going to
fuck yourself up. And they talk you through it psychologically. They explain to you and they
actually will give you the syringe. So here you go. And it's either the Netherlands or Switzerland
both now. And here's where again, the problem here at least is you can't compromise with the
Democrats or the liberals or the left or the especially not the woke because so I say as a
matter of ideology, I think, look, freedom, if you want to take heroin, take heroin. Now,
if it means you die, well, that's too bad. I'm sorry. That would never happen here. Oh,
they were the media would show a picture of a pretty blonde white girl. We got to touch the
right chords. Yeah, in a ditch or maybe whoring herself out or whatever. But they would find
something, an image that is unacceptable to enough people. Yeah. And they would use that for, you
know, if only she had a little help, it would only take this much to rehabilitate her.
And the rehabilitation costs are a lot less than prison. Can we as a just society allow this?
Yeah, except they make that same argument for everything. We already can't afford
the shit they talked us into on that so called logic. We're already going bankrupt and we want
more of it. Right. Now, I do think we grossly over criminalize our systems too complex. People
don't understand the laws. It's stupid that you have to pay I charge 500 bucks an hour. And I'm
worth every frickin nickel, which we haven't discussed yet, by the way, just so you know.
You're not charging me for this, are you? I'm sorry. You're not charging me for this, are you?
No. Okay, good. No, no, no, no. I was just more along the lines of me whoring myself out
to your listeners as a badass tax lawyer. I was like, shit, we had to wrap up. Yeah, yeah. Gotta
go, gotta go. This is my free, my free first session, right? I'll, when you meet with a lawyer,
you get your first meetings free. This worked well. I mean, we had to tell the chase story of how I
got here. Why Chase Bank brought me to Tampa. Oh, yeah, did we talk about that yet? No, no, it's
just another fun story of life in the world. But you know, talking about, we can't pay for
the shit we're doing now. Now, the Democrats' simplistic answer is raise taxes. The problem is
there's a consequence for doing that. There's a reason that we invent more than the rest of the
world, including Europe. There's a reason that unemployment rates among youth in Spain are at
like 40%. When you raise taxes to a past a certain point, it causes distortions. And bear in mind
that at least in some of those countries, you'd get something for it. I think we agree here, we
probably would not get quite so much as, say, the Swedes out of whatever taxes we quote unquote
invest. So we're already spending more than is healthy. The government is sucking the wind
out of the economy by sucking up all the debt. That's an interesting, interesting comparison
you made to the Swedes. I talked to a girl from Sweden and she compared, she was comparing her
perspective on the government there to what she sees with people here. And she's like,
people here in Sweden, we love the government. There's no problem with the government here.
Everyone trusts the government. Here in the US? And no, in Sweden. She's talking, she
lives in Sweden. She's like, we trust the government. It's great here. What we see on TV,
it's going on there. It looks like a fiery shit storm. And there are elements to both. Part of
the reason they trust the government, it's not that they're not corrupt in Sweden or Germany,
because Germans are kissing cousins. Like Swedish and German are close enough. I can
understand the flow of Swedish from having spoken German. I can get the gist and the flow.
Very similar cultures, especially in the northern parts of Germany.
The thing people always warn about, and there are a couple answers. Germany,
the fucking roads in Germany, everything, the gas stations are like mini Taj Mahals.
They have a special culture. That's culture. Everything is so nice. Clean, organized.
You can eat off the floor in a gas station in Germany on the Autobahn.
There's another side to that culture. So, Germany set up a government with a lot of power to help
people. They were the first social security. Otto von Bismarck created the social security
state that we imitated. We'll talk about our version of social security in a minute.
So the Germans have this very efficient state that does these wonderful things like the Swedes,
and everybody trusts the government. Do you think it's a coincidence that in a place
where the government is highly trusted and has a lot of power, that power, could we agree,
was eventually abused maybe just a little bit in Germany? There was this incident they had,
this period that many people are familiar with, where government in Germany maybe wasn't so good
and trusted. That's the problem. You put a lot of power in government. They're eventually going
to abuse it. Everyone is like, no, this time we'll be different. No, well, why hasn't that happened
in Sweden? Because they're a tiny little country. Right. They can't invade anybody, maybe Norway,
like they did actually, way back when. But the Swedes have their defense budget covered by us
largely. They are very efficient. They're not just efficient at government, like you were
pointing out about the Germans. They're efficient at everything. That's just their culture.
But we've seen with those cultures, there's a danger in putting too much power in the government.
Well, but this time will be different. This time will control it, said everybody always.
I don't think that'll, I think human nature is such that when you have power,
and you get to spend other people's money, by and large, you're going to do bad things,
and it's going to attract the wrong kind of people. And I don't see any long-term
exceptions to that rule. That's the problem. So here, we're not that efficient.
They're already wasting a bunch of money. Why don't we have roads as nice? We're wealthier
than Germany per capita. Google, we're wealthier than almost everybody per capita. There are these
small exceptions, maybe Norway, because they have a lot of oil on top of a productive population,
maybe like Qatar, because of the oil, Switzerland, because, you know, well, Switzerland.
Although actually, the Swiss do have a very interesting system.
So how do you think that would work here? Do you trust our government
to not abuse the power? I think they're already doing it.
I don't think giving them more power is the right answer.
It's scary because you need a certain culture for freedom to work, and we're losing that culture.
And the culture in Sweden allows them to trust the government. At least you get something.
I don't think we would get that here with that kind of money in the government's hands.
I really don't. And even if we did, I think we're more like Germany than Sweden.
What would that great, big, powerful government eventually do?
The liberals don't think about that. They think about, well, we're gonna...
How could you not think about that?
Well, here's what they think. No, they believe that they're always going to run things.
Trump was, that's why they hate Trump so much. It was a horrible shock to them.
Look, the government has this huge power. We're running it. This is great, except now we're not
running it. They've not reacted well. I've enjoyed immensely the meltdown videos. The TDS, I gotta
say, I'm a bad person, but I enjoy it. The TDS. Trumped Arrangement Syndrome.
Trumped Arrangement Syndrome.
Yeah, the people who are just kind of like the ones who so worship them. You can't talk to them.
He's pretty much the deity. It's a secret master plan, and he has a super high IQ,
and he's 27 chest moves ahead of everyone. Yeah, whatever. And then there's the people that...
They have the picture, the mural of him with Arnold Schwarzenegger's body with his head.
That's who they see when they see him in real life.
And then you got the guys who think Trump's Hitler. I had a guy, a random guy, it was in
Puerto Rico, American, just from his accent. I could tell right away we switched to English.
We're talking. It's a dog walking park. You mean a lot of people walking the dog.
And right away, he starts off on, you know, that fascist Trump.
And I said to him, you know, if Trump means to be a fascist, he's really not very good at it.
I mean, he's cutting the bureaucracy and cutting taxes and trying to have less laws and less
regulation. I love that he was beefing on Twitter with the Pope. I thought that was
fucking hilarious. I didn't hear about that. Oh my God. He was like, he was like talking
shit about Pope Francis or something. I forget exactly what he said.
And I don't see, here's the problem with Trump. The Pope tried him somehow. He said something
about him. Well, the Pope's a socialist. And Trump's like, he said something about the Pope.
Some funny sly thing on Twitter. I forget what it was, but it was hilarious.
But the Pope is not just, and this is from a Latin standpoint. So I'm going to add a little
Latin flavor here. The Pope is, first of all, an adherent of what's called liberation theology.
Hard left wing Catholic doctrine. My opinion of religion, such as it is,
is that your faith ought to guide your morals. If you have a religion,
you believe in a certain thing. And the morals, let's say the 10 Commandments or whatever you
believe in, that ought to guide, for example, your political decisions, which is why one would
think Catholics would be against abortion, but they're not because their politics inform their
religion. They manipulate their religion to match their politics. And that's what's happened in
Latin America with the Catholics. A lot of the priests who liked the commie idea decided, instead
of, let me see what the Christian religion leads me to. And I can tell you, it's not communism or
socialism. Let me change the religion to match my politics. That's the Pope. What makes it worse
is, and this is for any Latins listening, they'll let you know, he's an Argentine.
So the Argentines are the Latin American, like they think they're the best.
They never pay their debts. They used to be one of the richest countries in the world. That's a
very productive country, or I should say can be. Like right around the First World War,
when they were exporting a ton of food, because it's just very agriculturally productive.
I think right around then is when they're per capita was like number six in the world, income.
But they went with Peronism, which is sort of this weird mix between socialism and fascism,
which now that I think about it isn't hard to do because fascism and socialism are very similar.
The fascists are a little more nationalist oriented. The socialists are more class-oriented.
So we have different enemies. Oh, should we hate the foreign person? Or should we hate someone
because they have money? But we still have to hate someone, and otherwise the state has a lot of
control. Once the Peronists got it in Argentina, it's never, all they do is spend and print and
borrow. And the IMF keeps lending them money. The pusher still is there for the crack whore,
and the crack whore is Argentina. And it's a shame. It's a beautiful country, even by Latin
standards. First of all, the steak, the pasta, the desserts, the food, unbelievable, unbelievable.
Beautiful people, physically, even by Latin standards. Just beautiful people. And I mean,
come on, tango. Yeah. But in terms of how to run things, they're a total basket case,
and we're imitating them, not vice versa. And what do they do? Argentines can, oh man,
you got to read some of the blogs. There are some blogs put out by Argentines who've lived
through their constant inflation, and it comes and goes, but they adapt. Like the inflation gets
so bad there. When you get a check, you go out and buy furniture. Like you get paid at work.
You go buy a whole bunch of furniture. Why? Because the furniture will still have value tomorrow.
I mean, and so we get away with a lot more because we're the reserve currency.
And the other reason, by the way, it's dragged out so long, because a lot of people,
like Peter Schiff, who lives in Puerto Rico for the same reasons I do.
Who's Peter Schiff, people who don't know? He's a gold bug. He's a guy that does podcasts,
talks about politics and economics, big-time gold bugs. So he's finally in heaven,
because he's been predicting inflation forever, and it never happened. Why? Everyone's doing the
same thing. See, it's all relative. If you're the only guy printing, if you're Zimbabwe,
and you're Argentina, and your money's worth nothing, what does Zimbabweans and Argentines
do? They go buy dollars. But what happens when everyone's printing? Well, all of a sudden,
buying dollars doesn't make so much sense. Those guys are doing the same shit we are.
Yeah. So it's a race to the bottom. And that's when you start buying the hard, tangible stuff.
That's where the real estate, I mean, look at people who owned real estate in California,
starting in the early 70s and where they're at. That's the only thing you can't print more of.
Yeah. Now, the thing you got to watch out for is, are they going to go after real estate in
terms of property rights? Probably there's a limit, but they are. Look at this rent control stuff.
Look, you know how a land contract works, or they call it contract for deed down here?
Yes. Deed. So I still have the title to the real estate. I sell you the real estate,
but I keep the title. So I have the title, but you have all the rights. So if it goes down in
value, you still owe me. If it goes up in value, you profit. You got to pay the insurance and the
taxes. So who really owns the property? The buyer does. It's just that the title's in your name.
Well, that's what the government's doing in places like San Francisco, Portland and Seattle,
and that's going to spread, right? The Democrats getting more left, more progressive, more woke,
that's going to spread to everywhere, especially right now when people are desperate.
All these don't pay rent initiatives. You really want to think about where you invest,
because they're taking away your rights, but they're letting you keep the title.
It's just like a land contract. Right. Yeah. You still got the title. You got the title.
You still own it, man. You still own it for the bad shit. But you don't get any of the good stuff.
That's right. You don't get any of the upside. So let's talk to me about 1031 exchanges and what
you think is going to happen. All right. So switching gears. Here's what's proposed. Here's
what I think will happen. The Biden campaign and the Democrats in general are very business
unfriendly. Trump is whatever his flaws, he's nuts, but he's good nuts in that at least he likes
business. These laws that were passed in late 17 were brilliant in terms of helping business.
The Democrats are going to repeal a lot of that. They have a lot of different proposals. I have a
list here. I scratched out that I don't know that we have time to go through. We might do another
one. Okay. We can do another one too. They have a lot of proposals. They're very anti-business.
So why would I, now I know some people, let's think this through.
Flipping is hard, especially if you're dealing with contractors and rehabbing. There's risk. It's a
bitch. There's a lot of work. I've done it personally. I'm not very good at it.
Takes a lot of experience and skill. Yep. If all of a sudden they're taking 60% of what I make on
that, am I going to do more or less? I'm competitive. I'm going to keep doing it. Maybe you'll
have a few people like that. But by and large, people are going to be like, I'm going to do enough
to live okay. I'm done. So that's the incentive effect. So what is 1031s? A 1031 allows you to
sell non-inventory. So it doesn't work with flips because flips are inventory. It allows you to sell
a property that you've held typically for at least a year, sometimes less, but typically a year.
Typically you rented the property out. It allows you to sell it and buy another one
without paying tax. Well, it does work for flips, doesn't it? Because if you buy something
and you own it for, I don't know what the time frame is, but... 12 months in a day. If you buy
the property for a million bucks, you put another million into it and a year later you sell it for
four million, you make two million profit. You have a six month window to spend that two million
on another investment. And if you spend that two million into a building that cost four million,
for example... You're thinking of opportunities unfund. Totally different animal. It's a 1031
exchange. No, it doesn't work with flips. So here's what... Okay, let's back up a minute.
The 1031 allows you to sell the property and not pay tax on the gain.
Right. As long as you invest that gain into something else. As long as you invest the sales
amount. So if I sold it for four mil, I got to invest four mil in something that qualifies.
The profit. And the sales price. The sales price includes the profit
and your investment. Let's simplify the numbers a little. I find it confusing when both numbers are
two mil. Let's say I put two mil in the property. I sell it for three mil. I have a profit of one
mil. Right. You got to invest all three mil in something else for 1031 to work. Okay, so I was
under the impression that you only had to invest the profit, which would be the one million.
You're thinking of opportunities on funds. That's a different animal. We'll talk about that.
What's it called? Opportunity what? Opportunity zone funds. Opportunity zone funds.
Oh yeah. And that's a fun little thing. That's a mighty fine loophole. That's something to get into.
If you can do business in an opportunity zone, and let me explain what that means. The government
created these zones mostly economically depressed areas, but a lot of them are gentrifying. So you
are seeing a fair amount of rehabbing and such going on in those areas.
If you do it the right way, so there is a procedure.
If you are willing to either build new and then rent, or if you are willing to buy something
and put as much into the rehab as you paid to buy it, specifically the building,
there are some benefits. Let's back up a minute. Let me think of a better way to let me ask you
this. Do you want me to do 1031s or do you want me to do opportunity zones? We'll do both.
Let's do 1031s. Let's do that one first. Then we'll come back.
Wait, I want to make sure. Can we Google that? Can you Google what exactly? Because I've been
told by one of my close real estate investor guys that I know that this...
You only have to invest the gain? That only the capital gains is deferred.
Well, okay, then that's a different thing. Now you're clarifying your vocabulary,
and this is what I do. I'm a lawyer. Okay. So you're not at fault. Now we're clarifying terms.
Okay. Gap and communication. In order to defer the gain...
Defer capital gains. Right. In order to defer the gain, in our example,
2 million in sold for 3, gain a 1. Right. In order to defer the 1 million,
you got to roll the entire 3 million into something else.
Really? You're deferring the gain. You're deferring the whole million-dollar gain,
but you've got to roll the whole 3 million into something else. Okay.
There are other requirements though. Okay. The reason this doesn't work with flips is part of
the 1031 law says 1031s don't apply to inventory or things that are normally sold in the ordinary
course of business, which is really the same as inventory. What they're saying to simplify it
and put it in plain English, 1031 doesn't apply to inventory. Now, it's inventory.
That's gray with real estate. It's easy with the guy who sells those bourbon bottles. That's
inventory. That's inventory. That's just no question. What does he do? He buys and sells
bourbon bottles. How many? A lot, I hope. Real estate, there's this idea that the real estate is
a capital asset until you have enough of a pattern of buying and selling that it becomes
inventory, also known as dealer property. Once you've bought and sold enough, and that's
a gray number, people always ask me, John, I just want a number. I want it now on the podcast for
free. I want your malpractice insurance to cover me if you're wrong, and I want it to be an exact
number so I know exactly what to do. No, the law is not that clear. The law is gray. For example,
you could do one deal and become a dealer if the dealer is big enough. Let's say you buy
some land and subdivide it into 20 lots, and you're like, well, that's one deal. Now, IRS is like,
that's 20, bitch. You generally, for 1031 to work, the usual rule is it either has to be held
for appreciation, meaning you don't really improve it. You just sit on it, which means you don't do
a rehab, you don't put a building on it, etc. Or you rent it out for at least a year. There is this
misconception that if you have property that is meant to sell, and you hold it for more than a year,
now you get capital gains rates if you sell, which are lower than normal rates,
or that you can 1031, that's wrong. You can never 1031 inventory. So if you buy and sell
enough, if you flip enough, that what you're doing is considered inventory, you're not going to get
1031. Let's say you do a few flips, you do two a year, and you argue that's not enough of a pattern
for it to be inventory, but you quickly resell it as fast as you can. You probably still don't
qualify. It probably still counts as stock and trade inventory. There's a ton of case law in this.
It's not completely consistent. So you read this case law and you sort of get a gut feel for what's
going to fly and what's not going to fly. And what I can tell you is if you want 1031 to work,
it either better be something you don't touch and hold for at least a year. You don't rehab it or do
anything, typically land. You just sit on it and let it improve, or you rent it out for at least a
year. And I prefer for longer. I think a year is cutting it close. What if you buy a hotel that's,
a hotel's a bad example. What if you buy an apartment building that's 50% full for
a million dollars? You fill it up, paint it, and sell it for five million dollars two years later.
And you rented it partially? Well, it was 50%. You eventually filled it. Now it's 95%. You can
1031 that all day long. Okay. Because here's the definition. You can 1031 a capital asset. What's
a capital asset? Something that is held. So you're not just getting rid of it right away. You
actually hold on to it. And there's no magical period, but I would say 18 months is a good idea.
It's held for appreciation. Like you sit on land and you wait for it to go up. Right. You don't do
anything to it. You just wait for it to go up. Maybe you do a little bit here and then again,
but if you do things to it and then immediately sell it, you weren't really holding it. So it's
held for appreciation or the production of income like rent. Okay. So that's why I like it when
it's rented out. If you hold for how long, well, at least a year in some cases less, but that's
pretty rare, preferably for 18 months or more, you can sell it and not pay gains. And the reason,
this has been in the code since it was either 1921 or 1922. And there are always these threats to
change it. None of them ever come to pass. Well, he's making the threat and as much
again, so here's what I would love to say, because as you can tell, I don't like the Democrats at
all. I want them to lose. Do you think Biden could actually change it? Not alone, but if they get
Congress, hell yeah, they can change it. And there's a decent, this is all such a wild card.
It's just crazy. I mean, the smallest thing could shift everything. Who knows which idiot tweet
will come out of Trump next. Or who knows when Biden will make it so clear that even the media
can't cover it up that he's senile as hell. And he is. Yeah, he is. He's avoiding, they're trying to
tell him not to debate Trump because Trump's going to destroy. I can't wait to watch that.
I am so freaking psyched. It's the first one that I'm like, I'm like planning it. I'm like,
I cannot, I'm not going to miss this. You got a senile guy who gets really weird when he's
confronted. Yeah, he just comes up with like, what was that one, you know, a buffalo face,
pony soldier? Like what? What he said that? Yeah, yeah, somebody was challenging. I was like
some construction worker said something to him on guns or taxes or whatever. And he's like,
you're a buffalo face pony soldier. And everyone's like, yeah, get him off the stage now. And that's
what get him off. Get him off. Look, here's how we beat Bernie. Biden beat Bernie as soon as Biden
stopped talking. Yeah, Bernie beat Bernie. As soon as Biden was in the basement and not allowed to
talk. He sounded a lot more attractive when you listen to the nut. And it's the same strategy
with Trump. But Trump's going to push it. Trump will start. I mean, he'll be like, because I mean,
this is where Trump's, Trump will say anything. There's nothing he won't say. We know this.
Once in a blue moon, I'd say that I didn't mean that. I didn't mean it that way. Yeah.
No, because yesterday, because he makes the stuff up. Of course. Yeah, I mean, look, you can't even
see he lies because lying means you knew what you said was wrong. And that means you actually
thought about it. Exactly. And that's the craziest thing about it all. That's the craziest thing
about it. He just makes shit up. So but here is what he does have aggressive instincts. If Biden
refuses to debate, Trump is going to call him and I mean, he won't even imply it like other
politicians. He will flat out say he's a gutless coward. Do you want a gutless coward who's senile?
Leading the country. Like Trump will actually say it.
I would be surprised if he didn't say that. I mean, he would say that's probably
But so here's the deal. Putting it lightly. Let's talk about 1031 because look,
I think the Democrats winning would be massively negative for real estate for a number of reasons.
Trump, whatever his flaws has been very good for the economy. And people are like, yeah,
but how about COVID? Well, yeah, COVID would flatten any economy. Doesn't matter who's in.
Right. The question is, whose policies are more likely to rebuild it?
I think that's pretty clear. Yeah, definitely.
And it's hard because you hate the guy. You're like, well, I don't really want to pay a lot of
tax and I'd like to see spending. Well, he's not going to cut it. So at least I'd like to be let
it be more rational. And he's good for business. So hopefully we generate enough revenue that
maybe there'll be some more taxes paid. And then we got the socialists that are burning
shit all over the country. That's a great choice. Anyway, 1031. The reason it's been in the code
since 1920 or 1921 is taxing people when they sell property means a lot of people won't sell,
which means capital gets locked up economically. That's enormously inefficient. That's just
it causes economic loss. What has been good about our economy, but painful
is when one thing doesn't work, we're more flexible and willing and able to change.
It's painful. The guys that voted for Trump still haven't changed. I think it's 1955.
I go to a factory. I don't have an education. I don't know shit. But I push a button
and I get paid 50 grand plus health benefits. That was an anomaly. We had in 1946, we had
something like 67% of the world's industrial capacity because the rest of it was bombed into
crap. Germany, Japan, Britain, it was all in ruins. And so we use that as our starting point.
This is what America should be like. We could be fat lazy slobs and still make a shit ton of money.
No, that was an anomaly. And so when everybody started catching up and rebuilding and actually
having more modern factories and being hungry, like have you ever seen, have you ever met a rich kid?
Oh yeah. Because he has so much given to him. He's just fucking useless.
A lot of them. That was us. We had it so easy after the war, comparatively, because we had
67% of the world's industrial economy. We got fat and sloppy and entitled,
just like, I would say Paris Hilton, but it's actually a bad example because she's a brilliant
marketer. Oh yeah. She's a damn sharp marketer. But just like those trust fund kids that are
worthless. And then you got the hungry scrappy kid. And he grew up hard. And he's like, man,
I'm going to go do it. I'm going to work. I don't like this. I don't want to live like this.
Well, that was Japan and Germany and everybody else. And they caught up. So you got all these
guys who are using the 50s as their who shipped all the factory jobs over to China.
Because I remember Detroit used to be a fucking a super wealthy place and a super booming
like a huge city. It's a lot of things. So it's not a simple answer. Yeah. Let me give you part
of the answer. Brilliant idea. Well, yes and no. Because we want everything cheap. We want $800
iPhones. So let's do it all over there. Yes and no. I mean, again, who are you to tell me where I
can buy things? Do you believe in freedom? Because if you believe in freedom, I can buy from whoever
I want. I can buy from China and buy from Thailand, whatever. There should be some exceptions. We
wouldn't let you buy shit from the Soviet Union. Why? Well, they wanted to kill us. And that was
a bit of a problem. And we didn't want to enrich them. We seem to have missed that memo with the
Chinese. They're every bit as bad, if not worse. What caused jobs to go the way they were going?
Remember, Detroit was artificially rich. Why was it artificially rich? Because they had all the
factories in German and Japanese factories were bombed out and there was no competition.
Okay. So you could make shit cars, overpay fat guys to do nothing. I grew up in a Union town.
Let me tell you some of what I saw and made me very anti-American Union. And then let me tell
you what I saw about the unions in Germany, which are very different because I worked over there
as well. American unions, I worked in a factory for, I won't say the name. I don't want a lawsuit.
But I worked in a factory for my internship in law school as an industrial relations rep. It was a
factory in the Midwest and it was unionized by the UAW. Those people were, it was a rural area.
This was 1994. They averaged high school education, 50 grand a year, including,
was that with, yeah, that was like just over 50, like 50, 55 a year with benefits.
They were making a hell of a great living. And they were all big union guys, UAW. So what happens?
I go in the factory and the first shift, so that goes nine to five, two o'clock they're at the
table playing cards. And I'm like, that must be something must be broken or some shit like that.
And something was broken. I just thought it was a machine. That's not what was broken.
So I come in the next day and two o'clock they sit down and they're playing cards.
And I walk up to the table because I'm the company union guy. So they know me, but they
don't like me because I'm company. But I grew up in a steel town and I understand unions. So I
kind of get a sense of how to do things. So we chat and like, Hey, guys, what's going on?
Why, why are you sitting playing cards? Contract. Really? What's the contract say? Because with
the union, there's going to be a 300 page contract that says what they do and they don't do. Well,
the contract says, you know, we get paid by the number of pieces produced. And once we produce
that money, we stop working. Oh, I said, I understand. So you made your piece rate. Yeah.
Two o'clock. Yep. So another three hours and you're just going to play cards. That's right.
So shit, that's like 40% of your shift or something. Yeah. You know, the problem with
you guys and the reasons this is 94 when NAFTA was just going in. So it wasn't China that we
were thinking about at the time. I said to him, you know why your jobs are going to Mexico?
And boy, did I get some looks as in you're going to get your ass kicked in the parking lot looks
your jobs are all going to Mexico. You know, I sympathize that you guys want to make good money.
Your problem is you want to make good money and then you want to sit around with your thumb up
your ass because I'm from Youngstown, Ohio. And let me tell you what happened because they were
getting kind of a little bristly, you know, sticking their chest out and all that shit. Yeah.
Tough guys. Not that one of them could have caught me run like hell.
Fat bastards would never catch me. I said, guys, I grew up in a union town. Let me tell you what
happened when it was time to negotiate the contract and decide what the peace rate would be.
You worked really slow. And anyone who worked fast to actual capacity got his ass kicked out in
the parking lot. And so the peace rate got set artificially low so that you could sit around
with your thumb up your ass for three hours of your eight hour shift. And that is why your jobs
are going to Mexico. I don't mind you guys making the money you make. I think that's great. But you
ought to fucking work for it. That did not go over well. Wow. But that's the reality. And it's
cultural because here's how the German unions work in Germany. And it's changing some as they get
more socialist and subsidize more people not working their cultures changing and eroding some
but the traditional German and Swedish work ethic which comes a lot from the Protestant
version of Christianity that they had. It's shameful not to work. You are a bad person
if you don't work and you don't work hard and well and cooperate and make everything better
for everyone. So the Germans actually require that if the company of a certain size has union
members on the board. It's it's I forget what they call it now there's there's a name for it
that's lost to me in German. The so they got the union guys on the board. They make a shit ton of
money. In Germany for example if you come out of vocational school it's not like here here it's
like you're dummy you couldn't make it in the college you're dummy which is bullshit. That is
just the biggest bunch of crap put out by university professors and school teachers.
In Germany if you graduate from the Realschule which is their version of the voc
you get paid very well like if you're a German brick maker you make damn perfect bricks and
that building you build is going to last 300 400 500 years and you know it and you take pride in it
you get paid well for it. You have a trade and you're a craftsman. The Germans do a damn good
job with that. They also again they have that sense of working together of teamwork.
They don't want to sabotage their own factory right so in a German factory if someone's slacken
see here if someone's slacken like he's a drunkard I had that I had a guy would fall on the floor
and hit his head and bust it open and when I was talking with the union rep he would even tell me
privately and I honored that because you lose trust if you don't keep you know what he says can
this be off the record yes it's off the record it has to stay off the record or right he doesn't
trust you rightly so right he says listen I know the guy is a drunkard I know he's full of shit
but my position is elective I want to win votes from members so if I don't defend the shithead
I don't get voted for so I just want you to know between us I'm going to shout and pound the table
and stomp and I got to put on a show and ain't nothing personal and this is not the hill I'm
going to die on and I'm going to let you win but there's got to be a show he was very blunt
old guy very well but he also again he knew because we you know he's like oh you grew up
in Youngstown tell me about you know you're you they have you all lots of UAW there and
lots of steelworkers tell me about that so we got the chatting and then he showed me how to weld
and that kind of I went in the shot and the management didn't like that they're like you're
getting too close to the union and I'm like no I know what my job is I'm just curious I wanted
to know how to weld and so the union guy takes me they were happy they're like oh the college kid
wants to learn how to weld let's teach the college kid how to do something yeah um so he would tell
me you know I know this is bullshit but you know yeah the problem is the American unions defend
their slackers and if you work too hard or too fast you're going to get an ass beating out in the
parking lot you're making everyone look bad and you're screwing up the peace rate that's a cultural
issue yeah in Germany it's the opposite if you're the guy that's fucking up the factory yeah the
exports in Mercedes-Benz and that is the best engineer car in suburb you fuck that up that would
be a problem because we sell those for a lot of money and we are making a lot of money on that you
and I both so perhaps you should get back on the line and stop within scheisse totally different
interesting totally different culture 1031s we digress so much but it's fun so 1031 I'm all
for it and the reason they haven't gotten rid of it and frankly they won't get rid of it now they
got a lot of other poisonous shit that's going to be really bad for investors bad for business
1031 isn't going anywhere okay because they're going to have even their even their
biased studies and their professors and their even their versions of Paul Krugman these these
economic guys who are coming as hell are going to tell them look you're going to screw with
allocation of capital and something the US has always been good at it's painful we're going
through it now uber's replacing taxis that's just a reallocation of capital so taxis have this
monopoly and they're very expensive and they're dirty and they smell funny and they're regulated
as hell and uber with this technology I mean do I feel any worse about getting into an uber than
a taxi you know I actually feel better I think that the odds of me getting like herpes off the
seat are less so it's a reallocation of capital there's less money in taxi cabs less money in
taxi companies less money in taxi medallions and less money in taxi drivers we've reallocated the
capital uber does more with less but that's painful it sucks if you're a taxi driver right
it sucks if you're a taxi company owner yeah survival of the fittest creative destruction yeah
when you get in the way of that when you give people disincentives to allocate capital efficiently
which is what happens when you say we're going to tax the sale of rental real estate
you're not allowed to have other rental real estate you got to keep this one
mm that's like saying no you're gonna have the taxis we're not allowing uber and there are places
that do that but there's a price you know you do it long enough you get to the older analogy
I'm doing a more modern one but you get to the analogy of the horse buggies yeah no that's a great
analogy I mean that really puts it into perspective so it's not gonna happen yeah he's proposing it
now he is after real estate investors in general mm-hmm I got a list of stuff
and you tell me how fast or slow you want me to go because I'm pretty good at all this
so you know I do a lot with self-directed IRAs yeah yeah you were telling me about that
self-directed 401ks for example during the crash I had to stop buying for a variety of reasons
personal but I bought like 12 rentals during the crash for like I don't know I think with rehab my
average investment was like 25 grand each and those were all selling now for 65 to 80 and the
rents are right around 850 to 925 so I think we would agree good deals yeah I bought almost all
of those in my 401k it was a Roth 401k a 401k you know people get intimidated by self-directed
IRAs and 401ks the rules can get complex but if you just look at it as an LLC it's just another
kind of entity I got explained for layman's terms idiot terms for myself what is a self-directed IRA
what makes it self-directed all right so here's what here's when you work at a fortune 500 company
here's what they think self-directed means which mutual fund would you like to buy we're gonna
let you choose which mutual fund they think that's self-direction that ain't it okay in a self-directed
IRA with very few exceptions you can buy almost anything now there are limits on from whom you
can buy and with whom you can do business but in terms of for example in a 401k you can buy
rental property you can buy apartment buildings you can buy mobile homes you can buy trailer parks
you can buy self-storage you can do flips you can buy a business you can have a go buy a restaurant
or a law practice some of that most of that's tax-free some of it isn't that's where we get
into the complexity of the rules the point is you direct what the account buys okay got it now
as far as I'm educated on IRAs like like I mentioned before we started the podcast I read
like my financial knowledge doesn't go far beyond the book I read called money mash the game by
Tony Robbins where he interviews all these top hedge fund guys like the guy like the owner of
Vanguard more Buffett for one example he says if he could do one thing only for go back and start
from the beginning and only do one thing as far as investing what's the number one thing that he
would do though produce the most amount of return over the longest period of time he said it would be
a invest in um I forget the term like the S&P 500 uh an index fund okay one of these
investing in one of the index funds over a long period of time and he's like that's the most upside
with the least amount of downside and a bunch of these guys all said the same thing well in general
because but let's bear in mind that's not what Buffett did and Buffett got way better results than
the S&P 500 right so here's what Buffett's saying you can't do what I do and he's probably right by
the way right um so here's what I ask you and we had this conversation before coming on when
clients ask me so we get into the self-directed IRA discussion I have this a lot I'll give you the
example I have a lot of besides real estate investor clients we get a fair number of small
businesses physicians dentists so the physician will say well what should I invest in and my
response is what are you good at now if the response is just medicine you're probably going to have
this stuff invested for you but for example I got a client I talked to yesterday who's really good at
buying land getting used mobile homes putting it on pads on land and renting it out he's good at
developing sort of mini mobile home parks but they're small enough that they avoid the zoning issues
granted it's in Texas where things are pretty loose to begin with okay so the first question
is what are you good at now for a lot of people that I talked to I think you're talking about I
feel like a W2 person and you want to do something that just kind of like sits in coasts and you don't
have to think about it what are you good at again I know some W2 guys I do private investing I don't
do as much real estate I'm getting out of it because of some of the management issues plus
I'm making these contacts in Puerto Rico some of them hedge fund managers and you know how it is
you sit with someone long enough there's an old saying in Latin in vino veritas in wine truth or
an alcohol truth people loosen up and they talk some so I talked to these guys I'm meeting in
Puerto Rico that invest for a living and they invest in weird stuff what I'm investing in right now
and if it works I'll keep putting money into it medical receivables so in a no-fault state like
Georgia which is where these guys invest it's a no-fault state what does that mean you get
in a car accident your insurance pays no matter what doesn't matter who's at fault your insurance pays
the way the system works is the doctor is gonna there's going to be a lawyer involved
the lawyer is going to be getting money out of the insurance company depending on the nature of
the injury the thing may settle quickly the thing may take a lot of time the thing may require
litigation what these guys are really good at they have a doctor on staff who tells them
all right this guy's got whiplash this doctor is going to do this much work he's going to charge
that much the lawyer involved we've tracked him he's pretty good so it's going to go fast he's
not going to sit on his ass now if it were this lawyer you're going to have to add eight months
to the process you're going to wait longer to get paid because he's just he's a schmuck okay and this
insurance company pays out this much well here's the good thing the average payout on these things
and it's usually so their goal is i want to find someone who owes a doctor money that the insurance
company is going to pay i want a minor accident that's not going to go to court so i want something
where there was some neck damage maybe there was a chiropractor a little a little bit of you know
whiplash yeah i don't want it where the guy's arm went flying and it's not attached anymore right
that's getting litigated that's going to take years yeah something where you have to know the nuances
i want you to understand where the insurance company is going to say it's not worth fighting
it's not worth going to court so there's small amounts so here's what happens
the doctor the lawyer and the insurance company are all involved in this process
it takes a certain amount of time to get paid what makes this work is that the insurance companies
pay on average seven times the medicare rate that means there's a lot of juice that means the doctor
is making a lot of money he's charging very high rates to the insurance company which by the way
tells you part of what's wrong with our system yeah but we can make money on it right so the doctor
younger doctors don't have the resources of the money to wait or to fight so they'll sell you let's
say they treat somebody for a car accident and they charge three grand they will sell you that lean
they have a lean on the insurance company under georgia law they will sell you that lean for 1500
bucks now you have expertise first of all you know which these guys i should say that i've been talking
to yeah they know which this is like real estate they know what they're doing they know which leans
to buy and then which doctor will cooperate they know which lawyer to cooperate with which insurance
company will pay out and they only buy when all three are right for example if there's there's a
lawyer who's just doesn't follow up takes forever they're not going to buy that lean or the price
drops a lot because it's going to take a lot longer to collect for the insurance company because the
lawyer sits on his thumb etc or maybe there's this one insurance company that doesn't pay out well
bottom line these guys know what they're doing they're buying this stuff dirt sheep
and this will work until the mutual funds discover it like it used to be taxed lean investing was
very profitable and then the mutual funds went in an overbid because when you've got 2% money
you're fine earning 4% the rest of us liked back when it was 18% so this i'm sure at some point
the institutional players will screw it up right but for now it's an angle what am i good at finding
angles meeting people who know angles what um that's why i have to say with the w2 guy
is he good at finding angles is he good at talking to people is he from a family that
entrepreneurs and he has a sense of the private investment world now if he has no sense of the
private investment world hard money loans flipping factoring small company stocks that are not listed
on ppm's a private placement memorandums if he has no sense of that world then yeah you're
going to send them to the s&p or whatever okay in which case the self-directed ira has no value
for him okay his normal ira will allow him to invest in a mutual fund or the s&p 500 or whatever
okay on the other hand if you've got something you're good at
and you want a bit of buying and flipping duplexes see that's valuable here's what i would be doing
there are two sets of rules if you flip too much inside of an ira or 401k it becomes taxable
so they're tax-free except when they're not there is a tax and people on the call can just write
it down called ubit ubit stands for unrelated business income tax certain activity will cause
your 401k ira to be taxable and it doesn't mean you shouldn't do that sometimes it still makes sense
ideally you invest and hold so here's here's what i would say to a guy like you guy walks and he
says i'm good at duplexes all right tell me about what that means how much are you going to invest in
the duplex give me a number what's what's that run for you half million five hundred thousand four
hundred five hundred uh what's the game plan you build the duplex you're gonna fill it up
you buy it read it out sit on it for a couple years sell it repeat i love that okay that's a
great strategy for an ira or 401k so the question because you can do this and you can do it tax-free
we'd have to look at the numbers okay because sometimes say every say every five years every four
years five years maybe you you rinse and repeat does it show a loss for tax purposes like after
depreciation do you show any income for those four or five years yeah definitely oh okay you're
still showing income then you're getting some really good deals yeah um that's hard to do in
this market so you're really good at this because i can tell you a lot of my clients would want to
know how to do that okay um that's a good ira especially roth ira or roth 401k investment okay
you can put up to 60 grand and i'm rounding just to keep it easy for the call you can put
up to 60 grand a year in a 401k and there are details because with lawyers and taxes there's
always details right right right but you can put 60 grand a year in the account okay oh well
shit john that means i gotta do this for eight years before i can even do anything no the 401k
is allowed to borrow now the rules say and again i'm generalizing there are more subtleties the
rules say it has to be non-recourse debt okay well the bank wants 40 percent down so five hundred
thousand dollars 40 percent of that so i only need to come up with two hundred thousand and that's
going to take me about three or four years okay well that's better how about this i know a lot of
people who want passive money i know guys whose iras make a living lending when i bought my real
estate during the crash i was buying those houses with rehab all in at like 25 each okay i had a
buddy all his ira does and he had like two or three million in it all it does is lend at 10
percent he liked the deal he would lend you at 10 percent he didn't like the deal he wouldn't lend
wow so i showed him here's what i'm buying these houses for it is common by the way i've got to
do is network some there's a lot of those guys out there a lot you just don't know where to find them
okay so he he says that property for 25 grand that your 401k is buying i'll finance 90 percent of it
and he says and i hope you don't pay me in other words i bought right
mm-hmm he would be he would be happy to take the house off of my hands
and that's why the down payment was so low because the guy knew what he was doing he
knew he did his homework oh he knew real estate what the fuck he was doing oh yeah unlike most of
the banks that's yes so he was willing to lend from his ira to my 401k so that my 401k only had
to come up with a 10 down payment which is 2,500 bucks wow and i can put 60 grand in the 401k per
year amazing i could have done way more but i also had you know the law practice and the family
remember the part i talked about you know kids and not ignoring them yeah and then there's the
practice so i can only find so many i don't regret my decisions no i wouldn't either um
so i bought a fair number of houses little houses and that we've sold almost all of them at this
point i think i have i have one left that i have to sell out of the 401k and i have one that's on land
contract that the guy made the mistake of falling behind and the value he's stupid i got this duplex
in columbus for 23 grand put a grand into prehab it wasn't even rehab you know like make it not stink
and paint it uh huh right um sold it to this guy on land contract for 55 like very quickly got five
grand down sold it to him for 55 and the dumb son of a bitch has fallen behind on taxes and insurance
and it's worth about 100 so i have every incentive to foreclose right i'm too good of a human i
actually warned him once i gave him one break i said you're behind i need this caught up and i
just want you to know i will happily take this from you um you don't want to lose this because i
don't want to i want to sleep at night yeah so i'm trying to be a decent human a lot of people
wouldn't have given him the chance they just said for defaulted we got it for sure but i gave him
the chance and he did it again because he's probably thinking i'm weak and stupid and it's
like nope i gave you the warning so i'm going to take that and that's going to really help my 401k
so i got that one it's a land contract that was paying and he's sporadic on payments and he's
behind on both the insurance and taxes and it's stupid because i set the price so that the rent
on the bottom unit was the same as his payment he's living for free in the upper unit the rent on
the bottom unit is the same as what he's paying me and he's not paying me oh my goodness yeah what
are you gonna do so those are the last two that are left and then i'm investing in those medical
receivables where are these by the way the houses yeah columbus oh yeah cool yeah i think i have one
outside of columbus um one of the country towns nearby okay that was a fun one i found that one
in florida oh really yeah i was speaking at an Orlando group and so i go there to speak
and somebody says to me john do you know of anybody who can foreclose on a land contract
in newark ohio which is about 45 minutes outside of columbus and i said first the proper pronoun
sorry pronunciation is narc so just you know how locals always change so i said no i don't
but tell me what what do you what do you got and he said well i got this land contract i bought
um and i want to i want to sell it i want to flip it i want to assign it right okay well i'm
curious now give me the address i'm gonna have a buddy of mine drive by and look at it tonight
my buddy drives by and looks at the house and i have a sense of the value um it was on the tax
assessor's rolls for 60 which is a little bit optimistic um and he says i said how much do you
got in it and he's like six grand well how much would you assign it to me for because it's so it's
a land contract but it's in default it's from a hedge fund okay so i send the land contract to my
lawyer my who specializes in debt do my due diligence i'm a lawyer but i don't know 100
percent how to tell if a land contract's enforceable and i needed to be enforceable or it's worthless
so my lawyer looks at it the guy drives by they tell me it's kosher i asked the guy what do you
have in it he was like six grand and i'm like how much do you have to have and i said don't
bullshit me i don't want to negotiate you give me a price if i like it i'm gonna close on the spot
i mean within a week you give me a price i don't like i'm not gonna play the game and negotiate
with you i'm just gonna walk away and i'll buy you a beer we're still friends but that's i don't
have time my time is valuable i'm a brute force buyer i like your price or i don't so he says i'll
sell it to you for i think it was 13 five done we closed i mean within days we closed um and then
i only had to put that was a pre-habbie type deal and i had to put five it was only $500 to
convert the land contract because ohio law is really good that way convert the land contract
into a deed oh so i had like 15 grand in it now we ended up rehabbing it again later we put a lot
more into the rehab so i think now i'm up to 25 grand because we couldn't sell it it was old it
was in a rural town not a moving market like that's fine let's rent it well for it to be
rentable section eight you're gonna have to put another 10 grand in them but the 10 i got 25 grand
in it i was pulling like 850 in rent and this was like three years ago so during the crash those
deals were easier to find now that kind of deals harder to get right so you do the math i mean my
expense ratio on that after the rehab since we rehabbed it there was very little expense it's
like 35 expense ratio on the rent so i'm i'm doing fine um that one we got somebody in it
and and it cash flows like an mfr that's awesome they have an option but i'm hoping they don't
exercise so how did you get into doing all this speaking who can't who gets you to come out and
and speak where do you speak so i sell a couple courses i do various types of teaching the way
i got into it um when the internet was young and i was two back in the late 90s there was this
website cre online was the 800 pound gorilla of the small investor world i mean they had like
probably 70% of the internet traffic at the time but it was a very different time i mean dial
tones the whole nine yards and they they my attitude was before i ask for something i'm
going to give something so i worked corporate i had unlimited access to a database for tax
legal things which especially again the internet was young there wasn't that much out there that
was a very valuable resource and the company didn't care what i used it for they're like look if
you're researching tax law for any reason we approve that makes you a better tax lawyer for
my daytime w2 job that i had so i started posting on this website on the theory of give before you
get what i wanted to invest in real estate i saw there were a lot of really smart people on here
i wanted one of them to mentor me on real estate and i figured if i answered questions on taxes
i would have standing to ask for things give before you get so i answered questions
and people started they're like you know taxation of real estate i was real honest i mean like no
actually i don't i'm a corporate tax lawyer i don't know real estate taxation but i can learn it
and i have an unlimited database and an interest and i'm going to invest in it i was like 28
um so then fast forward one year i made a lot of badass kick-ass posts i mean just not just
good that they were dead on and and so cited code sections and law but also funny and entertaining
and i just had fun with it it was like a hobby um so then i go to their convention and at the time
they were the convention it was like 500 people at a marriott in atlanta by the airport and i'm
one of the secondary speakers so they all like ron the grand and lou brown all the big shot
speakers who sell a lot of stuff and make a lot of money and i'm this little schmuck that speaks
the night before thursday night like when the people come in the opening act yeah yeah and
they paid like you know 200 to come listen to me or whatever yeah and so i talked and as you can
tell i got some personality especially for a tax lawyer see the nice things in my profession
the bar is low yeah so i taught them a ton of stuff in four hours and there was a guy in the
back of the room who's still out there he's still a guru still selling courses his name's bill
bronchik we're friends um bronchik comes up and says you know you ought to you ought to get on
stage you're a good speaker and i want you on my stage in six months so you're going to come to
colorado um i'm going to have a group of two to three hundred people and you need to write something
between now and then the sell i'm like uh okay well what's in it for me will you get 50 percent of
the sales proceeds i get the i have the venue in the audience you have the product we split 50-50
i'll give you the first grand for travel okay but you got to write a book i still have it it's on my
website um he wanted me to write an entity's book but everybody had written them because real estate
investors love to talk about llc's and c corporations and all that stuff they're too obsessed with it
it's important i've written a book on it i sell the book but they they they spend too much time on
that and see my mentality is i'm going to look for something that someone's not doing at that time
there was only one book on how to use quick books to track your real estate that was sold online
and it was bad so i read it and i'm like hell i can beat this so i took two weeks off from work
which corporate man i mean two weeks of vacation was precious yeah all i did 12 hours a day was right
and it's still the same book i have for sale today i haven't changed the price it's 300 bucks it comes
with a 300 book yeah well of course i mean you put so that's a course yeah it's a three-ring binder
so it sells for way more okay so what happens 300 bucks um it teaches you how to use quick books
to account for your books and i wanted it because i got sick of teaching people how to do bookkeeping
and going through shoeboxes to do tax returns and all that kind of crap i hate that yeah so i figure
i'm going to make some money selling this course there's not a lot of competition and it's going
to save my these people that i sell to a ton of money if they do their books well it saves so much
money for the return for the planning if you get audited blah blah blah blah it's it's useful
so i went that first time and spoke i made more money on that stage in 90 minutes and i was a
horrible salesman i'm a really good speaker but a terrible salesman um in spite of that i still
made more money in 90 minutes that i made as a month as a corporate lawyer wow and so right away
i'm like jobs gone you know enough of that yeah and that's when i i start i did a lot with mobile
homes i used to buy and sell mobile homes when the mobile home market was imploding so the crash of
08 for mobile homes happened in 99 there are some companies like green tree green point
um konseco other similar companies that financed mobile homes and for a variety of reasons they
had a meltdown so you could go buy a mobile home for like three grand and turn around and sell it
on paper you couldn't get financing there was no financing the banking market for mobile homes was
just dying yeah so you could go buy a repo for three grand and turn around and sell it for 12 to
15 grand on a note really and that's how i got started it was cheap and easy i'd learned a lot
i learned that i was very naive when dealing with low-income people who stole a lot of money from me
i learned that i was very naive with contractors um but i learned and it gave me credibility with
my clients because now they're like because after i quit i also took on clients because they're like
look you post online you know a lot of stuff will you take us as a client and this is remember back
before cpa's and lawyers tended to specialize the way they do now for smaller investors
mm-hmm so i had the clients i had a lot of credibility with the clients because i did deals
and then i was also selling the courses and usually one of the things was down
usually because i was screwed it up and two of them were up
i don't invest that directly anymore i don't have the time i don't travel and speak anymore
actually i'm doing a lot of new content yeah i mean even pre-covid once we moved to portorico
i just was like you don't want to travel anymore i i have tons of clients in portorico
yeah it is nice how we do it on time good we're we're at like three and a half hours
oh crap we should wrap it up soon all right well here's let's do this then let's let's do another
one sometime absolutely and we'll actually do real estate taxes and asset protection yeah
because that's really my mainstay my focus um small businesses self-directed IRAs yeah
and the real estate i love saving people money is it okay if i mention how to get a hold of me
yeah tell everybody how they can find you on social media go to your website find your
your books your courses etc all right so guys this was an informal as you can tell we kind of
didn't really do the topic but it was fun when it comes to saving taxes i'm very good at it
i'm very passionate about it i do a lot of planning work for small business real estate
investors self-directed iras i also litigate um something that's a lot of fun to talk about
the stuff i've seen fighting the irs if you're interested if you like the style uh if you're
convinced i'm not completely full of shit and then i actually maybe not politically but at least
with taxes know what i'm talking about check out ira lawyer dot com ira lawyer dot com i'm on facebook
as well my name is john higher h y re so funky but easily searched spelling h y re and hey take
a look if you're interested um let me tell you the upside and the downside of doing business with me
let's be very honest yes very very uh truth and advertising i'm very good at what i do
i am very very very good at what i do i paid my dues i busted my ass wait till i tell you the
stories of how i uncovered some of the stuff i uncovered it'll it'll you'll be like people do
that i paid my dues i'm very good at what i do um that's the good news what's the bad news
there's one of me i don't have a lot of staff we're starting to train people slowly i don't
like employees but i am slowing down a little training tax lawyers and accountants as an
apprenticeship it takes time um and i'm not real patient with people i i shouldn't say that
i'm not real patient with mediocrity and there's a lot of it out there by definition
so there's one of me so the good news is you get to talk to me if you hire me to do planning
work or fighting the irs or doing returns the bad news is my schedule sucks um so where there'll be
issues in terms of i don't respond as fast as you want yes if it's not urgent as defined by me
in other words if you have a tax emergency which here's a nice thing about what i do
tax planning work let's say i put off an appointment by a week or two does it hurt you no
no most of you don't plan ahead at all
here's when it hurts you and when i do react i had this yesterday actually a guy calls and says
i just found the deal it's in texas i'm gonna buy this land and put mobile homes on it it's
going to be an opportunity zone fund i need it set up today this guy's old school mexican
he wants cash on monday i need to have the entity up in the fund up by monday and
and i was in it i like this client and i was in a position where i was able we were able to get it
done so if it's something that's truly honest to god an emergency which is rare here's the
emergencies typically for real estate investors and small businesses there's a closing you don't
want to screw up the closing maybe it's one of those strict ones where if you miss it you lost
the deal and there's a tax issue like there's a self-directed ira involved or an opportunity
fund or an installment sale or a capital gains issue and the tax issue is holding up the closing
that's an emergency we're going to get on the phone right away but what that means is canceling
another appointment because i normally am booked out for a month ahead i'm good at what i do people
want to talk to me i'm normally booked out that means i got to call someone and say i got to put
you off one day i'm going to call you and say i got to put you off because someone else you
know had an emergency it's fairly rare but i will say i am a paint there's only one of me
and so on the days that i get 150 emails you might wait to get one back i'm going to scroll
through and see which ones look urgent to make sure i don't miss the dumpster fire and then come
back and look at things so i want to be honest with people and let them know i'm very good at what
i do but because there's one of me the prices sometimes the communication is not as fast as
you would like and if that's going to bother you or my politics because as you can tell i'm
very blunt about it you don't have to agree with me um but am i going to be sensitive am i going to
use politically correct vocabulary so as to not offend you no that's not why i work for myself
so love to have business ira lawyer dot com john hire h y re um hopefully you were amused
and learned a little and next time around we'll get on some tax and asset protection stuff and
you'll learn a lot and maybe still be amused that was strong i will include the links below as well
cool for thanks for having me thank you
