Cool, so today's guest is Billy Mays III.
What's up, y'all?
What's up, bro?
So for everyone listening, tell everyone who you are and a little bit about your background.
I'm a musician and I perform locally and somewhat nationally as my career.
And I grew up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Oh, shit.
Represent.
That's where he's from.
For real?
Yeah.
Yeah.
When did you leave?
I moved to Florida when I was like 10, but my dad, I moved here with just my mom, so
I would always go back in the summer to winter all year long.
Nice, man.
Yeah.
All my family still lives there.
Cool.
Yeah, me too.
I love Pittsburgh.
Hell, yeah.
It's awesome there.
It's too cold, though.
Yeah, it can be.
Yeah, I moved down here when I was 18 for college.
I went to Full Sail in Orlando, which is like a, I don't know.
Yeah, I looked into going there actually way back in the day.
So I went for recording arts and entertainment business.
Yeah.
I had a bachelor's degree by the time I was 20, which I find to be kind of useless,
but I never had to tell anyone that I had a degree to get work or to do what I do.
But it was a good experience.
And then I sort of moved over to the Tampa area when I was 20 and I've been here ever
since on and off, you know, with a little bit of travel in there and touring.
How did you get into making music and doing what you do?
I remember, so I think one of the biggest things that hit me, which I thought was a
really good introduction to who you are, was actually the Full Sail video that you did.
And you talk about the first album you made in 2009 and you talk about your relationship
with your family and the process of making that album.
And did that point in time kind of kick off where you are now?
Was that kind of like a turning point for you?
Yeah.
I kind of look at that as the launching point.
I had actually made other albums that I didn't really release in any capacity.
When I was in high school, I was making albums on like the most primitive gear and like eight
track digital recorders and guitar.
And I had no knowledge of what to do.
But the one thing that I felt like I did intuitively was one songwriting, like instrumental
songs and two structuring those songs into albums.
I always feel like I've been drawn to the sequencing of tracks on an album.
That's something that I'm just super passionate about.
And when I'm listening to music, I feel like I'm always taking in the information of why
they started with this song and why this track three is really strong and the arc and what
they say for the end.
And I'm always thinking like that too for my stuff.
So I was always doing that.
And then by the time 2009 came around, well, that was a big year for me anyway in life.
I had lost all of my gear, all of my music gear, everything I owned in an apartment fire
in February of 2009.
Wow.
In Orlando?
No.
Is this when you're going to school?
No, not when you're going to school.
No.
I guess I had been over here for about three years maybe.
And I had just gotten an apartment on my own.
I was living with my dad for a while.
And then I finally got my apartment on my own in kind of the Clearwater area.
Okay.
And within two weeks of moving in, my whole apartment building burned down.
God damn.
And it turned out to be arson.
Really?
And my dad thought that maybe someone was targeting him and we have the same name.
Yeah.
But it turned out to be...
Someone's trying to...
From what we know, it turned out to be the apartment that I moved into.
Somebody had gotten evicted after like 10 years from living there.
And people had seen him circling around in the days leading up to it.
And then they definitely found that there was accelerant used in the fire.
Wow.
And they never caught the guy, I don't think.
For all I know, I think he skipped town or something.
They were looking for him.
He was the person of interest.
But thankfully, nobody was really injured.
I think my neighbor tried to save too much of his stuff and got burned in his arm just slightly.
And then his dog also wouldn't come down the steps.
But anyway, my apartment was kind of the target.
I remember you saying you looked back once you got out and you saw the place literally in golf.
Yeah.
I literally...
You were in there when it caught fire?
It was like 3 a.m.
And I'll never forget because I had watched Donnie Darko that night, which involves a big house fire.
And so I woke up kind of inexplicably around 3 a.m.
And I ran to the front door of the apartment.
And I didn't hear a knock or anything.
I was kind of just like, what's going on?
I was like getting to days.
And I opened the door and my neighbor, who was also a maintenance guy at the apartment,
was like, hey, there's a fire.
You got to get your stuff and go.
And I was like, all right.
And I went and got my girlfriend, who was there at the time.
And I said, hey, grab your backpack.
Like, we got to go.
And I didn't grab anything except my phone, wallet, keys, and a digital camera that I had sitting on the nightstand.
And I made it...
By the time I made it back to the door, the whole stairs were covered.
Yeah.
Like, I wouldn't have been able to walk through these flames.
This was like, I thought, oh, shit.
Well, now we have to like think about jumping out the window or something.
But thankfully the maintenance guy was like much more lucid and awake.
He ran and got a fire extinguisher and sprayed it just enough to get it down.
And my girlfriend and I just ran past.
And by the time we turned around, which was like 30 seconds later, it had already spread all over the roof.
And like where we were sleeping was already like, we would have been dead if we hadn't woken up.
You know, like it was the smoke inhalation would have been crazy.
So we turned around and we were the first ones out, but we were also the first department to really go.
And then it took another like, I don't know, 30 minutes or so for the whole place to burn down.
Everyone started evacuating and it was only two floors, so it was kind of small.
Yeah.
But I remember kind of just being in shock and like kind of laughing at the fact that like some of my stuff was still just in boxes.
And so it probably just went up in flames like super easily and all at once.
And I was I called my friend who had built me a custom guitar.
It was a custom built guitar for my hands and he spent a year making it the year of his life making it.
And it was sitting right there when I didn't grab it.
And I he was the first person I called it like 3am.
And I'm like, dude, I'm watching the apartment burn down and the guitars in there.
And he was like super upset.
And I was like, I think I'm going to like once they put out the fire, maybe I'll go back up and be able to save it.
And he's like, dude, no, that that had a lack of finish on it that hadn't even dried yet.
Like it takes months to dry.
So he's like, if any flame got near it, it probably just went straight up in flames.
Oh my God, dude, that's terrifying.
Yeah.
So so what did you do after that?
I just sort of I guess I sort of just started from scratch.
I mean, all your equipment, you had you had probably a lot of expensive shit.
Yeah, I had a studio and I had I had like cameras and stuff like that stuff.
I had built up, you know, in like over five years or so or more.
And thankfully, well, OK, I also lost all my clothes.
I lost God like stupid stuff that you wouldn't consider.
Like I had I had like a pair of sandals that I was wearing when I left and then like the shirt that I was wearing.
And then I realized I don't have any underwear.
I don't have anything.
So I think Salvation Army was there or the Red Cross or something.
It was the Red Cross.
They were there and they they were able to write checks for like 140 bucks to everyone that lived in the in the complex or in that building.
So I went and bought some t-shirts and stuff like that.
But I'll tell you what, the as horrible as that was and traumatic and I was like, I would have panic attacks when I've smelt fire for like a couple weeks afterwards.
There was still like a really little bit closer.
Oh, sorry.
You can like force it up a little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, like really tighten it.
Cool.
Cool. Good.
Yeah.
As bad as that was, it was kind of freeing to not own anything for a bit.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Like just like to start clean.
A minimalist.
Yeah, totally.
And I think it kind of messed with my whole perception of possessions for a while.
But obviously, you know, you always build back up and get new stuff.
So to answer your question, my dad helped me get back on my feet with like the bare essentials.
And for me, that was like some clothes.
And I ended up just like staying at my girlfriend's mom's house or something because it was close by like for maybe a few months.
And my dad got me a guitar and an amp, like pretty cheap amp, pretty decent guitar.
And like that's all I had.
I didn't really have like effects pedals anymore.
So I was kind of stripped everything down.
And like I was super lucky to even have that, but it kind of helped me therapeutically just start from scratch and process the weird emotions about the fire.
Yeah.
Like through music without trying to, you know, be cool or anything.
I was just kind of like making music to have fun again or not to have fun to meditate and to process.
Wow.
Were you working at the time?
Yeah, I was a freelance production assistant on TV.
And that's how you got into production because your dad kind of like brought you along and changed the ropes and brought you on sets.
My dad just brought me on set one day for a Kaboom commercial and was like introduced me to the production manager who I actually knew from when I was a kid.
And he was just like put him to work.
And I was like, oh, that's awesome.
I just did what I could and like I didn't even really know how to like paint walls and stuff.
And that's what they wanted me to do.
So I had to like learn like really basic things because I went, I didn't go to school for that.
I went to school for more on the music side.
But at the same time I learned more about life and work and technology from just getting thrown into it and trying to figure it out.
So yeah, I was working freelance production as much as I could at that time.
Were you doing a lot of the kind of infomercial world?
Yeah, big time infomercial world and like some more high budget commercials.
Like all Florida based stuff.
And it's kind of a hub down here for infomercials.
So I guess that has to do with it.
Yeah, it definitely is.
After your apartment burns down, your dad helps you out getting some new stuff.
You have no clothes and you're just making music as a hobby.
Like you now you're doing it kind of like just as like a therapeutic thing to get through that loss or turns out that I always was doing it as a hobby.
But I think this is when it clicked as like emotional practice, like something I need to do rather than I'm just doing it because it's what I like to do.
And it kind of connected my life experiences to my expression.
And like that moment was when it kind of looking back that would be like the turning point of like, oh now I'm making like real music.
Like before I was kind of just doing the activity of making music and now I felt like I was making like what I would consider art and that it was connected to the creator more.
So for people who don't understand exactly how it works, can you explain the exact process and how you make music?
Like with the instruments and the sampling and all that?
Yeah, actually back then I really wasn't doing it this way.
I was always a one man band, but I don't really know if there even was that good at technology for live looping back then.
So what I would do is I would kind of just layer the shit out of guitar and it would be as though there were eight guitar players playing at the same time, but they were all me.
So that's how I started and that's how I like, that's how I got any kind of thing resembling a big sound back then like in high school even and stuff.
And so I was like always kind of starting on like a self-taught method that probably wasn't the best way to do things.
But I guess I did have a looper back then in 2009.
The red Roland? The guitar pedal one?
Yeah, I think I did have that one.
That was one everyone had.
Yeah, like the RC 20 or something.
I don't know, maybe I had the RC 50.
So what it is is you press a button with your foot and it records what's happening.
And as soon as you press it again, it just keeps looping that thing.
It just keeps playing it over and over again.
Yeah, and you can keep layering over it and there's all kinds of options of tracks and depending on what one you have.
And now I would say like five years after that, Boss put out a really special one called the RC 505, which is sort of the standard now for tabletop loopers.
It's all hand-based and that's kind of what I use now for everything.
I use for my infinite third sets, which are guitar looping and beats on the spot.
I use that and then for mouth counsel, this other thing that I do, it's really just the RC 505 and a microphone and it involves other people and just voices.
And so that's where I've gotten to since 2009.
But back then, yeah, I guess I was getting into more ambient music and I guess...
Like I told you when I first met you, I really got an Apex Twin vibe.
He does the same thing.
He'll do his massive live sets and he'll just sit in the corner of the stage with his little whatever it is.
And then he just makes it up and there's just like literally there's hundreds of thousands of people in the crowd.
He just sitting there just like in his own little world.
Yeah, and Apex Twin is amazing and there's a couple other producers like that that I would say that I am influenced by Fortet.
It takes a lot for me to really get into an artist that kind of leans more towards the DJ world because I feel like they really recognize their vibe that they bring even if they're sampling.
You know, remixing or whatever, they always kind of have their stamp of what they do.
So yeah, I think besides that I was listening to like Sigur Rose, Explosions in the Sky, Mogwai and bands like that.
And I think that's...
I love Mogwai.
Yeah, Mogwai is one of my favorite bands and I think that opened up that style of like instrumental music, like epic instrumental music for me.
And so my first album came out in December of 2009.
The same year that your apartment broke down?
Yeah, well, okay.
Well, then I guess the ending of that portion of the story is that I got back on my feet after the fire and I think it was June.
Well, no.
Yeah, it was June, beginning of June, end of May that I moved into a new apartment finally.
And I kind of like was getting back on my feet.
In Clearwater?
This is in Dunedin.
Okay.
So close to Clearwater.
And just getting settled in, kind of like building up my collection of items and furniture and stuff like that slowly.
And then in June of 2009, my dad just passed away unexpectedly at the age of 50.
So that was sort of heavy to like tack on to that moment.
Obviously, like would have been bad on its own.
But like the fire was almost like really manageable and I survived.
Yeah.
And then, you know, when my dad died, it was it was sort of like a thing.
Like it was like a lot of a lot of complication just around life at that point with even in my work and how old were you?
I was 22.
I think I was 22.
Fuck.
I think I turned 23 in August of that year.
So, yeah, that was that was like the one two punch of 2009 that I look back at as one of the most important years of my life, like not just for shitty reasons.
Because also at that time I sort of solidified what I wanted to do with my life with music and stuff.
And without having much experience or knowledge or wisdom yet, I kind of set out to like finish this album by the end of the year.
And I was able to do that.
It's called Gently.
The album is called Gently.
And some of it was being written even before my dad died.
So I kind of just like kept going down the, you know, let it keep avalanching down the hill once once he died.
It was like all I had to really like focus on that I cared about.
So I did that and it was a pretty strong album.
I still look back at it and I'm like, damn, there was something special going on because I can't even recreate some of that stuff now.
It's, I don't know what I was doing, but I think I was just so focused and zoned in on completing that task.
Not even knowing how important it would be for like the future and like what I was building.
So that album kind of like just, would you say that that album like reflects that whole year for you?
It's like a, it's kind of a pretty deep sounding album like emotionally, but it's surprisingly uplifting and optimistic.
Which I guess you could say is how I felt in 2009 was like surprisingly optimistic in the wake of all that.
Because it kind of like, I feel like it kind of woke me up.
Whereas I didn't really know what I was doing with my life so much.
I kind of had like a vague idea that I wanted to make music and stuff.
And I was kind of just going along with life.
And I think when those two things happened, it sort of like jolted me to like just reflect on what I want to do
and how I want to do that.
And I'm thankful for it because there wouldn't, I wouldn't be doing what I'm doing today without going through all that shit.
Right.
That, I mean, I can't imagine that moment when you find out that your dad passed away.
I mean, it has to feel like it wasn't even real or like you're in a dream or something.
Oh, totally.
It was just like.
Yeah.
I can remember the morning.
My dad was actually, he had a really bad hip.
Not many people know this.
He had a horrible hip and he got his hip replaced twice.
The same hip and like his body was like rejecting it.
And like the first time it just didn't work.
And then the second time he got a staff infection and like it was pretty messed up.
And then he had his third hip replacement where they told him this is the last one we can do.
If it doesn't work, you might not be able to walk like fuck.
So that Monday he was scheduled in the morning to have this hip surgery.
And then Saturday night he got in from doing all this traveling to the shoot last minute commercials
before he was going to be down for a while.
And he got in to Tampa Bay, Tampa airport.
It's kind of a funny thing.
You can look it up.
The video where the plane, the wheel blew out on landing and like the suitcases fell out
and he got hit on the head with his own suitcase or like other people's suitcases.
And then they even interviewed him like local news interviewed him coming off the plane
because they're like, oh notable local guy Billy Mays was on the plane.
And so he has this like really just exhausted look on his face.
And I knew I know what he's going into at that time.
Oh yeah.
And he called me and we had this long talk.
He was just like happy to be alive and he was talking about like we're just going to get this hip done.
And then we're going forward with all these business things where I was going to help him
with a lot of the kind of the PR stuff with.
Oh really?
Basically the website that I run now, BillyMays.org is probably a version of what I would have made with him
had he still been alive was just sort of collecting his work.
You know, that's kind of what it was because nobody was doing that.
And so that happened.
And then that night I was super anxious not about the plane.
I thought whatever the plane he got lucky and that happened.
I remember feeling like super anxious just about the hip surgery.
Thinking something might go wrong or whatever.
You're worried about it might not walk again or something.
Yeah, totally.
And then I was telling my girlfriend about it and I was kind of like panicky.
And I felt like my chest was like, you know, when you have anxiety,
I started to get really worried that I had like a problem going on.
So to calm down, I think I turned my phone off, which I never did.
I turned my phone off for the night and went to bed.
We wake up Sunday morning and my girlfriend gets a call from her mom that says,
hey, Billy needs to call his mom.
She can't get ahold of him.
Everything's okay.
Just call her.
And I'm like, okay, everything's okay.
So I call her and she answers the phone crying and basically telling me that they found my dad dead
when he woke up or he never woke up that night.
And it's funny because he was traveling and he just made it home that night
and he finally got home and then died, which we all look back at as such weird timing.
It would have been way worse if he had died in like a hotel room or something.
Right.
Or else out of state.
Yeah, so yeah, that was kind of just devastating.
And then I was talking to, you know, a bunch of phone calls coming in that day
and it was just a pretty surreal day.
It was...
How'd it been a surreal like couple months?
Yeah, totally.
I mean, it's a surreal life.
Right, for sure.
Yeah, it's...
I can remember...
I had a blackberry at the time.
This was my phone.
And like, I had just gotten on Twitter maybe in like March of that year
and it was just starting out and it wasn't really like a big thing yet.
But it was pretty awesome still to like be on Twitter.
And I got my dad on Twitter.
Oh, really?
Maybe a month or two before he died.
We actually found someone was doing a parody account.
And then we asked that kid if we could just take that account
because he had gotten a bunch of followers.
Did he have like the Billy Maze handle?
He had real Billy Maze.
So we wanted to get that because it was already kind of established.
Is it still a thing?
I think so, you can go on it.
And it's funny because if you look back at the tweets,
there's an undefined moment where before this moment,
it was just this kid tweeting.
Well, he thought my dad would tweet.
And then there's a moment where...
If it comes actually my dad.
Like, I think I'm still in touch with the dude.
His name's Mark if Mark's watching this.
We're like connected on social media.
But like, I think we maybe sent him some swag or something.
That's hilarious.
But then like my dad would tweet like kind of goofy things.
He would just be like, it was always like,
going to LA today, going to shoot commercial.
Thank you to all my fans.
Stuff like that.
From a Blackberry it takes like 20 minutes.
And he was a total boomer.
Just in general about this kind of stuff.
Tech wise, he didn't type.
He typed with fingers.
He had just pointed fingers.
And it was amazing that he even was able to get emails
for his work stuff.
And he didn't have an agent or anything.
I think he had an agent that he worked
some of the bigger deals with towards the end.
Like he had the Discovery Channel deal
and a few other bigger deals that finally
just required an agent.
But he was doing so many handshake deals
with his commercials.
That's hilarious.
So anyway, the Blackberry thing is notable
because I actually tweeted within an hour
of getting the news that my dad didn't wake up this morning
because people were following me because of my dad on Twitter.
And it was like a pitchman thing.
I was on the pitchman show on Discovery Channel.
So we had like this little fan base that was growing.
And I was just trying to be like, you know,
in between because my dad didn't really know how to interact
in a quick way.
So I would just do that.
So on Twitter, I posted that.
And then I see it popping up on the news stations.
I was the confirmation that my dad,
and really it wasn't confirmation
because I wasn't verified or anything.
So they just started running with it.
And they were using that tweet as verification.
You'd see screenshots of my tweet on CNN and all this stuff.
And this was kind of like, I feel like it's when we discovered
this whole like mass grieving of celebrities
was right around this time because it was
Michael Jackson died three days earlier.
What?
On the 25th.
Yeah.
And my dad died on the 28th.
And like literally in my last conversation with my dad,
he's like, you heard Michael Jackson died.
I was like, yeah, that's crazy.
And then it became that.
And then the news just like just blew it up.
Like blew it up.
Yeah.
Ed McMahon, Farrah Fawcett, Patrick Swayze.
So they're like tweeting you and stuff.
Well, no, they were all dead.
They were celebrities that died that summer.
And so that's why later on there's a South Park episode
called Dead Celebrities.
It was the season premiere of one of the seasons
where my dad has heavily featured in it,
but it had all these celebrities including Michael Jackson,
their ghosts who were like haunting the kids.
That's so sick.
It's amazing.
And so anyway, I somehow my tweet made it to Alyssa Milan.
Who was a big tweeter at the time.
Okay.
And she basically just said, hey, go give Infinite Thirds
some love.
He lost his dad today.
And I, and that was like a really nice thing.
But I had notifications on and it literally bricked my,
my blackberry for like six hours.
I couldn't call anyone.
I was at my dad's condo.
We had finally made it there.
But as that was happening, the way the notifications came in,
it wasn't prepared for that many.
And it was like, I went from like a thousand followers
to like 15,000 followers and like over a few hours.
So yeah, it like, it kind of like made me not able to tell
more people like my family and stuff, which is funny.
But yeah, that's kind of a funny, like that's how it,
like that's how it dispersed through the world was through
my tweet.
And that's funny how stuff works.
Yeah.
So it seems like you and your dad were really close.
I didn't.
Yeah, we were super close.
Like super like personal and business seems like you helped
them out a lot.
I think that was where it was going.
Yeah.
I was just like filling the role of while nobody's really
thinking about this stuff and I'm here and I care about it.
So I should do that.
And he was super on board.
And I mean, I did like travel with him.
The last time I saw him actually was in LA.
Really?
The week he died, he went on The Tonight Show with,
with Conan O'Brien when Conan had a short stint hosting
The Tonight Show.
I tried finding that.
I couldn't find that interview.
Damn.
It was him and Anthony Sullivan.
They were promoting Pitchman.
And a couple of times before that he was on Jay Leno's Tonight
Show.
I saw that one.
And that was cool.
But I told him, I don't, I don't care to go for that,
but if, if you ever get on Conan, you gotta find me out cause
I was like a huge Conan fan.
Yeah.
And I still am.
And the minute he got booked for Conan, he just called me and
he's like, Hey, I'm getting you a ticket.
Like we're going.
Sick.
So I went out to LA, had this great time, met Conan,
hanging out backstage and stuff.
And that night we were all celebrating that moment.
And that was the last night that a lot of us saw him because
then we all went our separate ways and he went and shot all
these commercials.
And so yeah, we were close.
We, he was a huge supporter of like me doing music and stuff.
Was he really?
Yeah.
Unfortunately, he never really got to hear my, my good music.
Yeah.
But he heard some of the stuff that I worked on in the years
before that.
And he was, he was just, he was just like unconditionally
supportive of it, you know, and my mom was like that too.
And they're divorced since I was like three, but they both kind
of had this like really heavy support just cause I was the
only child and I feel like, I don't know, they were just good
like that.
And I lived with my mom growing up.
So my dad was kind of like this traveling, I see him when I
see him kind of thing.
Cause he did the home shows, home and garden shows.
That was like his thing.
He was like a carney basically like going and pitching on
boardwalks and traveling home shows.
Yeah.
He would pitch products.
He would get a booth at these, at these things.
Like trade shows or.
Yeah.
Kind of like, like, but just like gadgets like for your home,
like you go and you look at refrigerators and stuff, but you
also look at like choppers and things like that.
So when I was growing up, when I was a baby, he was doing the
washmatic, which was a hose that goes in a bucket so you can
wash your car on the fly without having a hose nearby.
And you pump it and it uses like gravity to shoot water at
your car.
Oh, shit.
And he was great at the demo.
He like learned from the, like the, the veterans how to do
this demo.
And so there's pictures of him holding me as a baby and like
doing the thing on like a, on a standalone car door that
they bring in.
They don't bring a whole car and things.
So they used to call him bucket Billy.
And I remember there's like shirts of him.
His says bucket Billy and mine says little bucket Billy.
So that was the product that I knew him for as a baby.
But then when I was a closer to becoming a teen, maybe like,
maybe like 11, 12, he was doing the salsa master, which was
basically a food processor that you'd crank with your hands.
It's a great product.
And I think it's still around.
And his demo was just making salsa all day.
And so I would hang out when he would come to Pittsburgh for
the home show.
That would be like the most time that I would spend with him.
And I'd like bring my friend and he would buy us all these
like X-Men toys and whatever we're into at the time, wrestlers
or Star Wars or whatever.
And we'd go on like a spree because he was just like trying
to make up for not being around.
And we'd play in the hotel and swim.
And then during the days, we would go and hang out at the
home show and like hang out under the booth, like playing
with toys and stuff.
Because it wasn't that much space.
So it was kind of like ingrained into me what he did.
Wow.
And you could like try the salsa.
That was like part of that.
That was how you get people to come to the booth.
Free salsa.
So in between we would just, I know we would just eat this
salsa.
It was amazing salsa.
He'd make like a spicy one and a mild one.
And my dad legit made really good salsa.
Really?
Yeah.
And it was probably from making it so much with that.
Oh my gosh.
So that was like, that was the times between the home shows.
And then he lived in Florida in Clearwater.
We would come down and visit him in the summer sometimes for
like a couple of weeks.
Okay.
And so that was the time that I saw him.
It wasn't really like shared custody.
It was like my mom raised me and then my dad, I would just
see him when I could.
Thankfully they always got along.
Oh, that's good.
Yeah.
But yeah.
So then we were, we were close.
We were, I guess what happened was then when I was 18 and I
came down for college, it was kind of like the handoff.
And now he was going to try to make up for some of the time
that he didn't get to spend with me.
So that's awesome.
I moved in with him after college.
And really it's like for the last five years of his life, we
finally got to become like friends and like, you know, best
friends.
And so I'm thankful that I got that time with him because I
think about it and I'm like, you know, I didn't really know
him that well.
I knew I didn't know him as an adult and I got that time
because I moved down here.
So what was it?
What was it like living?
Was he like a baller or what was his house like?
He kind of like, he thought he was like, I look at some of his
financial decisions and I just think that was a good one.
If I get money like that, I'm never going to do that.
Like what?
Like he would like, he bought a pretty, by the time he made it,
I think, I'm guessing it was about five years before he died
and it's the house that I moved into.
It was like kind of a mansion like in Odessa, Florida.
He had it built and it was a super nice house.
It was like Florida style house.
I don't know if I like the architecture so much, but it had
like a movie theater in it.
Yeah.
Like a eight seat movie theater and like cool shit like that.
That's so cool.
But I think his stupid investments was that he would lease cars.
So he would always have like four cars at a time in the time.
And this only lasted a few years.
He would have like a Bentley and a Range Rover and an Escalade
and like a BMW and they all had different cars.
Yeah, he would lease them and it was like such an expense
and like looking back, it's probably why, you know,
there was no huge fortune for me to take when he died.
But then again, I think it was just his thing of like,
I would love to see Billy May's Cribs episode.
Dude, it would have been awesome.
He was so poor growing up and like just lived in the,
in McKee's Rocks, Pennsylvania, which is like a noteworthy town
for like, you know, not good things.
And so I think he hustled so much.
And then when he finally got that money,
he just wanted to like kind of prove it and live it up here
and like enjoy it.
And I think he just loved showing up at a place in a Bentley.
But like then also being this down to earth dude,
he'd like let people check it out.
And I remember at his, he got remarried when I was in high school
and he had a Rolls Royce at the time.
He had a Phantom and that was like, he had like,
I think back then he only had like two cars at a time.
But the Phantom he had was probably the sickest car he ever had.
I remember at his rehearsal dinner for the wedding,
they're coming out of, I think it's called Magianos,
down at West Shore Plaza.
Yeah, so they were coming out of there
and the valet pulls up his Rolls Royce
and everyone starts to realize who it is.
And he was like pretty famous at the time.
He spends like way too much time signing autographs
for these kids on this, on his Rolls Royce Phantom.
Like signing it on them and like letting them get in
and like letting their parents check it out
and like it just became this big scene.
And everyone's like rolling their eyes,
like all the family and stuff.
Like, oh, here he goes.
Dude, that's awesome.
So that would happen all the time.
But I think he enjoyed sharing like,
like, hey, this is what it's like.
You can just like, when you have luxury
then he would like try to help people out
and let them experience it too.
That's amazing.
You've done your part to kind of like,
from that point in 2009,
you kind of like made a decision that you're going to
obviously make a huge turning point,
but you kind of like carried out his legacy
or you kind of like,
it seems like you took the ball from there
and you ran with it in your own way,
you know, with the music, like with that new album.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I think I do find crazy,
probably things that people wouldn't really understand
unless you like have my memories and stuff.
But like, I feel crazy, like unexpected,
parallel vibes of his life at this age
and my life now and how I always thought,
no, I'm not going to become a pitchman.
I'm not going to be, I'm not going to do what he did.
I'm more of an artist musician.
You know, he was an artist and a performer in his own way.
Yeah, totally.
It was like, it's super interesting.
Yeah.
And like, he wrote a lot of the commercials as well.
Did he really?
That was like, because I mean, it was his pitch
being distilled into like these little presentations.
So he was big on the wording of it and the demos.
So I always tried to like distance myself from it,
like right after he died, I was like,
no, I'm not going to go into that world.
Because like a couple people thought,
oh, you should fill his shoes and like be a pitchman
and you know, try to take over for products and stuff.
And like some people have asked me to,
but nothing's really ever like excited me enough to do it.
But then I realized like, I'm,
I do all this independent touring
and I've built up my little merch setup
and my setup is essentially what he did.
I would, I play music and that's my demo.
And then after the set, I'm selling merch
and trying to like get to the next city,
which is exactly what he did except that his demo
and his merch were the same thing.
It was like, he's literally demonstrating the product.
And it was kind of all in one where mine's a,
mine's a little bit more removed.
Like it's more a performance and then you buy,
but like that's kind of what his was too, I guess.
So it makes me think that a lot of the times
when I find myself alone in a city touring
and like playing some weird shows
and weird basement show or something,
I think, man, my dad was wearing a situation like this
where he's at some festival
or not festival, like a convention that
like didn't really turn out the way he wanted.
He was just trying to make it to the next one
and hope that it goes well.
And like, it kind of makes me feel connected to him.
Did you already have the name infinite third by that point?
Or how did, when did you come up with that name
and how did you come up?
Actually in 2009, I was going by a different name
and it was like so, I look back and I just hate it
because I think I was so, I was so caught up
in my feelings rightly so, I was just like,
I was just like, holy shit, like I'm just feeling this
and it's like grief and you know.
So somehow in my haze of 2009,
I came up with the name soft words traverse
and it was just like so dumb.
Like I don't like it, but I think it was just like,
I look back at a lot of that time as sort of like foggy,
even though the music was really on point.
Like I feel like my life was kind of like foggy
and I didn't really know who I was yet
or like who I was becoming.
Well, it was just a transitional period.
So I went with that name for that first album
and I think not even a year later,
I've realized that's not the name I want to go with
and like, I had this tattoo,
I had this infinity symbol tattoo
and I have a third symbol, you know, for the third
and I think I was just like sitting somewhere
and I committed to like infinite third.
Like that should be the name
and it kind of gives off like a duality of what I feel in me
and it also is kind of confusing
and doesn't make sense, like logically like infinite third.
So that's what I wanted in the name
was something that was like a little intriguing
but also like had personal meaning.
It seems like you built in a lot of meaning to it.
Yeah.
It has like so many meanings built into it.
Well, there's like, somebody came up to me recently
and said that there actually is like an infinite,
like I always thought the third interval in music
makes sense because it's like the beginning
of the minor interval like zero to three
and the scale gives a certain vibe.
So I thought yeah, people could take that
and run with that thought
but somebody told me that there is like a concept
of an infinitely recurring third interval
which I guess there could be anything with music
and she went into this whole thing about like
you got to look it up, you got to check it out
and like I've even had people play on it in press
like reviewing my live sets or my albums
where they thought it was some sort of like physics term
and like, and then it dawned on me that like
my music with the looping was set up
to sort of always have infinite possibilities
and just continue on forever.
Yeah, a loop is infinite.
Yeah, and like I can keep progressing it
and I improvised so many of my sets
but I don't want to play the same thing twice too much.
You know, I want it to always be a little different
and let it be for that moment
and not just something I'm like doing karaoke with.
Yeah, I always thought because you painted the three
on your forehead that it was like a third eye.
Well, yeah, I mean, there's that in it.
Yeah, that works too.
Take mushrooms and do whatever.
Yeah, I mean, one of my albums, if you look it up,
I was just revisiting it actually.
It's a six-part collection of albums
called The Exploratory Sessions
and you can find them on my bandcamp.
Yeah.
They're all kind of like whatever.
They're all just super guitar based,
like spacey guitar improvisations
that I then curated into these albums
that look sort of each one has its own little concept.
Yeah.
And I started like revisiting like how that all went down
and it was my first time like really diving into mushrooms.
Really?
Hell yeah.
And it was basically like five days at my apartment
with a whole setup and with like a TV setup
with like a VHS player that like glitches
and like I was, I don't know.
I guess I was like trying to like expand my mind
or like I was being invited to expand my mind
and I basically just recorded and live streamed.
I live streamed it on Ustream back then.
Really?
You have Ustream.
Ustream.
And then I remember how stupid it was
is that it would be this like relaxing music
that I'm live streaming
and then like ads would just randomly interrupt it
and you couldn't pick when they happen.
So like really looking back I would like never do that now.
I would never want like a live stream to just be interrupted.
Right.
Like in the middle of my set
just like stopping the music at a random point.
Play a commercial.
Yeah.
So it was basically just three to five days of me
not eating like huge doses of mushrooms
but just like a steady flow of it
and like eating some healthy food and like.
Yeah.
And I didn't intentionally do it
but it was all recorded and it was all live streamed
so I took the recordings
and started going back through them over a course of,
I don't think they actually came out until like 2014
and this was probably 2011.
So it took about three years to come back around
and say man there's a lot of good stuff here.
How can I present this?
So I presented it as a six album collection
called the exploratory session.
That's sick.
And so it took place over six days you said?
Yeah.
I think it was about five days,
three to five days on and off of this streaming for hours.
On shrooms the whole time.
I guess.
I don't know.
I feel like when you do mushrooms
like at least when I do like it sort of just,
I just need a little bit
and it kind of like sets me off in a direction.
Yeah.
I feel like.
You just kind of like teeter on the brink of reality.
Yeah.
Like I'm more of a micro dose guy.
You're not like tripping ball.
That's what I would do.
I feel like I would be like too scared to go
into that fucking door.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, I've had some bad experiences.
Have you?
In the past, yeah, but not, nothing like where I did anything
crazy or just mental like.
Where you did too much you think?
No, not too much.
Okay.
Just like the wrong heads.
I always felt that when you do psychedelics,
there's always a moment,
at least for me this has been true,
to like really have the euphoric like clarity
that can come with that.
Yeah.
I always feel like I have to go through this period
of like accepting death.
And even if it's just like the concept of death.
Yeah.
And so maybe my mind gets all anxious and heavy
and I think I'm going to die
or I realize that I'm going to die one day
or whatever version of that.
And then like through those clouds,
there's like this huge clarity,
just like get through it.
So that's happened with me a lot is that like,
I've had to first break through the fear
and then sort of like realize that
there's like a clarity on the other end.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I don't think I've ever had any like,
super bad experiences,
but I think there's always like a little bit of a teetering
on like, you know.
Like if you're going to fall over on the other side of the fence.
Yeah.
That's what I'm afraid of.
Like I hear people like get stuck in that fucking state.
I do think that some people do huge doses
of these types of things
and it triggers like psychosis.
Yeah.
But it's something that they are already dealing with
or already have in their, you know,
lineage or something.
So I do think that that happens.
But that's why I'm like,
I feel like I'm super careful about it
and I try not to,
don't take it lightly.
Like I've set it up as like a ritual if I ever do it.
Like I try to do it in like at parties
or anything like that.
Right.
But I like to kind of treat it as like a spiritual experience.
Yeah.
For sure.
And thankfully I've stuck with that for the most part.
I won't just take it
if someone would give me something like that
at like a festival or something.
I couldn't do that.
I've always been way too much.
I've always been too much of a pussy to try it.
Like if I smoke too much weed, I freak out.
Like I'm tripped.
Like if I eat like a edible, a brownie or something,
I've had like, I'll look in the mirror and be like,
this has got to be what shrooms are like.
I think there is some overlap, you know,
in like in some really good weed.
Yeah.
Yeah, they're close.
I'm going to try.
I'm going to try them soon.
I'm going to definitely try them soon.
I'm just really scared.
I would just stay hydrated.
Okay.
Yeah.
Unless there's some infinite third year.
Yeah.
Actually, people have hit me up and said,
my music has guided them through like bad trips.
Really?
That's probably like the best compliment.
Like I've forgotten all kinds of things about like,
obviously people doing it,
like for their yoga classes or whatever,
putting on my music and then sometimes.
Being like taking shrooms and doing yoga.
No, no, no, no.
No, just doing yoga.
Different ways that people have put on my music in like,
odd settings.
I've heard that my music has been played at like,
childbirths.
What?
At home births.
Damn.
And I always found like the couple of people who have
reached out and said,
hey, I went on a journey and like,
thankfully your music kind of anchored me.
Nice.
Throughout the trip.
And I'm like, yeah, I guess that's kind of what it's for.
You know, it's like,
it's instrumental and stuff in the way that it is for a
reason and it like has a certain abstraction for a
reason.
It's not just like dance music or even though there are
beats sometimes and stuff.
It's not.
The purpose has always been like catharsis.
Okay.
Meaning like kind of going through like a transformational
emotional experience.
Yeah.
My shows I do set out to kind of go through that for
myself and in turn it kind of like lets other people feel
that in the audience.
Ride it with you.
Yeah.
And so I do have people come up to me after shows and
it's like they say that they had some,
you know, crazy sort of like transformative moment
emotionally during the set.
And it's weird because when that happens,
it's usually I also had that same kind of experience
while I was playing like I was in a bad mood or I was
like scared of something going on and like the music
kind of like let me be free of that.
So I do, I do find this weird shamanistic quality of
my music.
Like I wouldn't say that I'm a shaman.
I feel like that would be sort of arrogant to say,
but I think that I have to facilitate my music.
I'm not just performing it usually.
I'm trying to facilitate something for everybody,
including myself.
Yeah.
So I try to be super mindful about it.
Like I don't want to just, you know,
puke all over everybody.
And just push buttons and make noise.
Jerk off, you know.
It's an intentional thing for me and it's not always
perfect and it's not always exactly what everybody
needs, but more often than not,
it is what somebody needs at that time.
And that's also because it's what I need,
I think.
Yeah, it's super fucking cool.
I wouldn't really want to make it if it didn't have meaning
like that, you know.
Yeah, for sure.
It keeps me, it's how I knew that it should be like
my career and that it doesn't make sense that somebody
would make a career out of like abstract experimental
ambient music.
Right.
But the whole time I just knew.
Because you're not going to get like super rich probably
off it, right?
Yeah, I don't know.
But then I realized over time that like it's not really
about the genre or about the specifics.
It's more like people.
This guy's fucking us so hard with this.
Oh, the lawmaker.
Fucking blower.
Fucking blower.
That's all right.
Yeah, fuck it's okay.
We'll treat it as like.
It's incidental.
Yeah.
Well now that we're mentioning it, people don't know what
they're hearing.
I gotta figure out something.
I don't know.
We'll figure something out.
Honestly, I should sample that.
Yeah, I was going to say it's part of the moment.
We're just going to live with it.
Anyway, I think what I was trying to say was that I slowly
realized over time like I don't want to limit myself
mentally to say that I make some obscure music when I really
all that matters with any kind of art is that you're connected
to it and you care about it and you grow it like a garden,
not just a fucking product.
So I find that I'm realizing more and more that it almost
doesn't matter as long as I believe in what I'm doing.
It's going to work and people are going to connect with it.
So I've been able to make way more money than I thought I
would from like that's why I don't do as much of the stuff
that I don't want to do.
Right.
And I do more gigs and shows that are my music.
I've had to get through a lot of periods of risk, financial risk
of like I don't want to take this really intense gig that I would
make a lot of money on, but it would just kind of drain me
for weeks.
I had to start saying no to those.
The easier money or the more guaranteed money and say,
no, I think a show is going to come up and like I had to get
through a lot of periods of borrowing and just doing what
I can to get by.
And now I feel like it's my career now.
It's a huge mental struggle.
It takes like a lot of courage or a lot of balls to trade.
Most people just trade their dreams for securities and like,
this is going to be more, I'm going to make more money.
I'm going to be able to raise a family, pay my mortgage if I do
this and just dabble in this.
It takes so much.
That's why so few people do it.
Dive into the thing that they love doing that makes no money.
It's not even really like the way the world is set up and the way
capitalism is set up.
It's already things are stacked against you and some things are
stacked against people more than others.
And some people have more stacked against them than others.
So I feel that I had a lot of leg up just by getting to see my
dad's rise and learning from him, getting the little bit of post
mortem support from him financially, which was like enough to
invest in some gear, you know, whatever.
There was that, but it wasn't like a trust fund.
And so I definitely have those kind of head starts.
But I also feel like I didn't take the easy route of like just
making, trying to make music that's commercially viable.
Right.
Just for the dollar.
Mine really hasn't been and only until recently do I see that it
could be, there is a path for me to be abundant with it financially.
But it's hard work.
You got to convince people why that, like why it's, why it's good
or why it's worth listening to or why it's worth booking for your
gig or your festival.
And I'm sure that's hard because a lot of people don't get that type
of music and, you know, it's hard for them like you're the person
booking and stuff to relate to shit like that.
Well, thankfully I'm getting better at showing it and explaining it
and collecting the right videos.
And yeah, I think it's.
Especially doing it live.
I'm sure helps.
Yeah, but I think kind of see it and understand what's going on.
That's what I was going to say is that I think it's because once
people see it or experience it, then it's kind of like unquestionable
what it is, but it's really hard to describe.
Like, oh yeah, it's this guy just like pressing a bunch of buttons
for this guitar.
And then like it's also really emotional and like people, people
sit on the floor with him sometimes.
It's all really like sounds weird.
But once you're there, it's just like it makes perfect sense.
And, you know, there's no reason to question it once you see it,
but that's the hard part is like just getting out there more and
more so people experience it.
Yeah.
And you're also, I mean, you're also super fortunate that you didn't
have, you know, a lot of people have parents that are just like,
don't waste your time doing this.
You got to go do this.
This is going to make you money.
You need to go fucking join the Navy or go work at a bank.
Go to college.
And actually be a functioning human.
You know what I mean?
A functioning part of society.
Well, my dad was more practical about that.
He would like, he would kind of say like, yeah,
you still got to get this degree and like, yeah,
maybe one day you'll be able to do stuff with music.
But I hear where he was coming from.
I was just a kid, you know, and I wouldn't think that I could have
done it back then either.
But little do you know that like his death was the thing that
triggered me into being able to really do it seriously.
But my mom was just, she still is.
She's like, she's like the number one fan.
And she just always, even back in high school,
like I would play music really loud in the next room over.
And she's just like, I love it.
I love it.
Really?
Yeah, it's awesome.
And so, yeah, so I was really lucky to have parents that didn't
just shut it down.
Oh, hell yeah.
Yeah.
And I did have like friends that kind of like shut it down,
like ignored it or like thought that I was stupid.
But thankfully once you get out into the world,
like a lot of people will like move away from where they're from
or something.
And like you kind of find people that like get you in a new light.
You know what I mean?
Like that kind of thing where like you can kind of like reinvent
yourself.
I think that kind of happened for me when I moved to Florida.
I was able to start reinventing myself, but it took a long time.
Hell yeah.
Have you ever thought about like collaborating with other artists?
Like I think one of the first things I mentioned to you earlier
was like this hip hop artist from St. Pete.
Like it would be so cool like to hear like, you know what I mean?
Like samples and loops like with, you know,
collaborating with these vocalists that come on.
Well, I do it all the time really.
Mouth Council is strictly collaborative.
Okay.
It's never just me.
Okay.
So explain exactly what Mouth Council is.
So Mouth Council is, I mentioned it earlier,
the loop station that I use, the RC 505 by Boss.
It, before that existed, I had started doing this thing where I would,
I'd be playing music myself and then like somebody would be around,
like a friend or something.
And they'd start singing along and I'd be like, I'd want to include them.
So I would just like hand them a microphone and then loop what they were doing
along with my loops.
And it was like fun.
It was like including them instead of just me playing out of them.
And then as that went on, like maybe I did it with like two friends.
And at one point it was just like, Hey, let's do the thing where we just like,
we loop loop our voices.
And so we started kind of like having fun with that with like a really primitive looper
that just did one thing, like start and stop.
So there were no effects or anything cool that I could do.
And I would just keep layering over it.
So it turned into this thing where some friends would come over and we'd like
sit around and loop, I would loop all their voices and we would all just kind of like
do goofy things and it become maybe like somewhat musical.
So once that RC 505 came out, I was like, I need that.
Like they announced it and I was like, that's what I need for this activity.
And I got on like the waiting list for the pre-orders.
And I think I got it like the month that came out.
Really?
And so I just dove into it and I was like, let's do this.
And one of my friends, one of the original friends who did that with me at one point,
he doesn't even remember saying it.
He was like, I love that.
I love when we do that.
It's like, it's like some sort of mouth council.
And I was like, that's what we should call it.
He doesn't even remember saying it.
But I know that that was where the name came from.
One little comment.
So you had never seen anybody do anything like this before?
Oh, people loop.
But in the way you do it in like a circle where you pass the microphone.
Honestly, it was just a really natural thing.
It wasn't even that intentional.
It just kind of happened.
And it was like people would naturally want to sit in a circle.
I was like sitting around a campfire or something.
People want to do that.
People want to sit in a circle.
It's so fucking fascinating.
I mean, I've seen like videos of like, I've watched like little clips of it before
that never really like captured me until I watched the full process of what happens
and what it sounds like.
Freaking amazing, man.
Yeah.
So back then it was a little still pretty primitive.
I would just kind of, we would do it and like hopefully it would turn into something cool.
And like, it kind of fit in as like a cool thing.
It shows in between bands or something.
I started doing that.
And then I think some, some point maybe like, I would say four or five years ago,
probably five years ago, it got, I got really good at the pedal.
Just, just from, from using it so much, I got intuitively good at it and kind of realized
like, this is a real thing that I'm doing.
Like I should, I should like focus on this and make it a project.
And I turned it into the mouth council like officially more and more and I would brand
it and I made a logo and stuff.
And still that's, that's what I do is like, I look at my musical path as like half infinite,
third half mouth council.
They're two completely different offerings, but they're kind of the same in that they're
opposite.
They're, um, infinite third is like me looping with myself and like super internal and like
introverted.
And then mouth council is me looping with everyone else.
Right.
The audience is the performer.
Right.
Yeah.
And I love that.
Like when I'm on a stage, I get to bring people up on the stage and I just always trust
that somebody is going to want to, you know, be the center of attention.
Of course.
But like it actually, I love it because it lets me sort of like highlight other people
instead of just being, making it about myself all the time.
So in some ways, like I'm the, I'm the facilitator and the leader of it, but you know, I love
the moments where it's more about someone just like gets up there and can really sing
and they just kill it.
Yeah.
And I'm still mixing it like a badass over here.
Like I admit that I do some cool things sometimes, but I think that some of it's so like playful
and accidental.
Yeah.
It's so organic.
Yeah.
I try not to like.
Freestyling.
I try not to let it get to my head because it's just like, it's this like energy.
It's not.
It comes together.
It's like, it's because people are into it, I can feed off of it and just start turning
knobs and stuff.
So it's not like some genius, you know, thing that I've like written out and structured.
It's totally the opposite of that.
It's like, I don't ever think about it.
I don't plan it on purpose because when I do it kind of like get in my head and like
maybe not do it.
Have you ever thought of doing like an album, like a mount, like where you, like where you
do sequentially?
Cause obviously once you record them, you don't mess with them.
They are what they are.
Right.
That's what's so cool.
Yeah.
For the most part.
They kind of like live how they're produced live is how they end up.
Yeah.
There are some good live audio recordings that I've released on band camp and stuff.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Just like some decent like song by song live recordings.
Like I think it'd be a cool concept.
Like there's no mastering or there's no editing of the sounds of the audio.
Like if the concept of the project was just like, I'm going to bring in track one, I'm
going to bring in these people, track two, I'm going to bring in these people, and then
I'm going to record it.
And that's it.
Well, I told you, I really want to do like a, like a series, almost like round table
discussion style of like, cause, cause then from that, so I'd have guests, maybe like
you guys would be guests on my thing and we would talk and make music together.
And then I feel like from that, why wouldn't the audio of the songs be an album?
You know, right?
Right.
I see a version of that that, you know, becomes, I already, I already look at it as a band.
Like it's a band that has no boundaries.
Like everyone's in it.
Yeah.
So I always tell people like, you're in the band now, like you're, you're part of it.
So mouth council is literally just me and everyone else.
And it's cool because there's so many possibilities you can do with that, with that idea.
Like it's just, it's, it's fucking infinite.
Yeah.
Third.
Yeah.
Hey, were you on Drew Garabbo show doing that?
Yeah, I do mouth-ass all of Drew's show all the time.
Hey, I've heard it multiple times on there, but I didn't know who it was.
Drew's awesome.
That's sick.
I go on there maybe every two, three months.
Yeah.
Really?
I just heard it.
Not recently.
Like not that long ago.
I know I did.
I drive home from work and I hear, I listen to them on the way home every day.
I've heard it a couple times.
I was just starting like three weeks ago.
Yeah.
I know I heard it.
We, he went and got all these like, like staff of the radio channel and like brought
them in.
Yeah.
And then everybody made a sound.
Yeah.
And they passed it around and, you know, there's always like a video going of, of their live
stream.
Yeah.
And Drew always raps.
Yeah, he does.
He's a pretty good rapper.
He just freestyles.
Yeah.
And yeah, I love Drew.
That's it.
It's always a great time going on that show.
I just do it if we had like one more person there, like one, two, three.
We could do it like this.
Need more though.
It's just like the vibe is better when it's like maybe like five people.
Yeah.
I think that's like my magic number is like five to eight.
Okay.
And also like if it gets too many in the, in the actual circle, like I like there to
be like a circle and then like people standing around or, you know, in the crowd.
Yeah.
Like 10 or 12, it can get a little weird in that some people don't, some people freeze
up.
Yeah.
And I totally promote passing it.
If you don't want to do anything, somebody's gonna like judge you because you couldn't
like figure it out.
Make a sound.
I don't know.
Sometimes somebody will fuck it up.
Somebody will like put in some, they'll be like, they'll, they'll feel, I mean, you
don't want to say that.
No, there are.
He fucks up the energy.
I would say sometimes there's someone that kind of goes into business for themselves
and just like screams into the mic and like tries to, like plugs their website.
Yeah.
And I'm actually kind of down for it.
Like I, I can totally, I have enough control that like I could cut off the mic if I really
need to if they start saying some obscene shit.
But also like sometimes someone will do something really shitty into the mic and it's like distorted
and weird and I'll still like tweak it enough to bring it back and make it like a funny
thing and then I'll delete it.
So it don't make them feel like left out or like they're like assholes for making a weird
sound.
But sometimes it'll go around and not enough people will have done something like musical.
It's almost like it's adding up the wrong layers, but like the layers don't mesh well.
And then sometimes a lot of times my contribution is that by the time it comes back around to
me, I'll add like a heavy snare or something.
It makes it like groove differently where some people won't do that that whole time.
So we're sitting there waiting for everyone to kind of get through their piece.
So I try to like mitigate that by not having too many people, but there's inevitable times
where there's like 15 people in the circle and sometimes I'll just like ask for the mic
back real quick and I'll say I'll give it back to him so I can add some hi-hats or something.
But yeah, like one of the weirdest gigs that I do is First Night St. Pete, the New Year's
Eve celebration, the family friendly New Year's Eve celebration at Straub Park downtown.
They hire me to come do like a little mouth council zone.
And last year, it got a little crazy because it was just kids.
It was just all kids.
And like maybe a handful of like people who might have been drunk stumbling by, but it
was kids.
I like it's crazy with drunk people.
Kids are great.
Kids are better than drunk people sometimes.
Kids are like, they're uninhibited like drunk people are, but kids are actually pretty creative
and like drunk people.
What do you mean when you say kids?
Are we talking like children?
All ages.
There was a girl there, a little girl right next to me.
She stood up.
You could tell she was just like mesmerized by what was going on.
And I think she was probably three.
Like probably the youngest that's like voluntarily walked up and done it.
And I gave her the microphone and she started singing.
And like it wasn't like Whitney Houston singing, but it was like it was like really listenable
singing and everyone was cheering and she probably didn't even understand that they
were cheering for her.
It was it was that kind of moment.
And then like I found out her brother was sitting right next to her and he was also like having
a blast doing like kind of like almost rapping, but it was it was like scat anyway.
So we're going around and this was just like nonstop.
There was no structure to it.
I wasn't limiting who could come in.
So we had like 25 kids around.
They're all trying to get their moment and like everyone's having fun, but musically
it was.
It was a mess.
Sometimes it was you couldn't listen to it.
Yeah, it's annoying.
It's just noisy.
But everyone had fun.
Yeah.
So that's all that matters sometimes.
I want to play one.
We can add it into the podcast so we can like have this is the is this the one who's the
one we did it with the mayor.
He wasn't in it.
He was watching though.
It's the mayor's lounge.
Mayor Christman.
Oh, OK.
I got to pick four friends to come and be the performance on this web series called
Mayor's Lounge.
OK.
That's right in St. Pete.
Yeah, this was the hideaway on Central.
That's sick.
So you got four, four people plus you and you're like beatboxing.
Yeah.
To start it out just to get the beat five going.
And I strategically place these four people because I got new Zach right here.
We kind of come with like a funny but musical musically good sound.
Yeah, that's it.
That's like his specialty.
One of his specialties.
Oh, I'm actually going green.
And then yeah, I had my friend, Senyo, who's like he's actually the lead singer of Bang
Rang.
Oh, really?
So I got him to get out there to see how sweaty I am, which happens a lot.
I've broken loopers because I've sweated into the faders.
That's my third.
Oh, shit.
That's my machine.
Yeah.
Because the water will mess it up.
So did you imagine like Rod Wave sitting there like singing one of his songs and then somebody
else beatbox and then him mixing it and then like the girl throwing in her stuff?
It's always really special when there's a rapper that knows how to freestyle.
Oh, yeah.
Build this beat and then I have a way of mixing once they start rapping that cuts it out at
the right times.
I'll put like an octave on his voice and like and drop it out satanic, you know, for like
certain.
Yeah.
And like that's my favorite thing is when someone just goes goes off and then I can
like put a filter on and like cut out the beat at the right moment and bring it back
and yeah.
Because I kind of vibe off that person doing that.
Yeah, definitely.
If you had like a link Rod Wave up with them.
Yeah.
If you had like Rod Wave and then like a death metal, like a corpse grinder, right?
Yeah.
Like.
That'd be a beautiful.
Yeah.
The insane.
Yeah.
Do it.
Do mouth counsel with me all the time.
Really?
And they're amazing.
And yeah, they're like two of my go to people for if I need to make like a really good musical
mouth counsel because they come through with like some catchy hooks and they're both really
good rappers and they'll just kind of like capture the moment with me.
That's sick.
And there's a lot of people like that.
But yeah, you know, we have our OG crew, I think that I would hit up for things like
this for the mayor and stuff.
Yeah.
What kind of like so what kind of shit has this led to like you've said you've done like
a bunch of corporate.
Yeah.
It's like led to like team building activities for brand.
Yeah.
Just yesterday, I did it for a bank for their management party at like 10 a.m. I was doing
mouth counsel with a bunch of people just a bunch of bankers.
Yeah.
They were super and it was like like the the more like higher ups were super into it trying
to get everybody to like let loose and it was really fun.
You'd be surprised.
There aren't too many situations where people aren't like down to down to clown, you know,
right?
Yeah.
It's just such a super like super immersive.
Yeah.
And I try to let people know that you can't do anything wrong.
Like you're not going to do you're not going to ruin it.
Yeah.
You do something weird.
Right.
We're just going to keep moving.
Yeah.
And so it's imperfect in that way.
So it doesn't make you intimidated and think that you have to be American Idol to participate.
Right.
Yeah.
It's like my my comfort zone is like in there and like having to just answer to the moment
of like people are looking for this to be musical.
Let's make it into music and like take chances.
And I do a lot of like flipping the beat and like raising the tempo slowly and like turning
into something else.
Right.
I think that's kind of what sets it off.
I do take credit for that.
Like my job is to not make it just loops right over again.
It's changing it up and right and switching it out and effects in and having structure
to the songs and the songs at the right time so that it feels like a complete song.
Right.
So and so it's not just like goes on forever and ever.
There is a time where I'll feel like I can go for like 20 minutes and I just do because
it's party or something.
Yeah.
I just want the music to keep going.
Yeah.
So and on the flip side when I do infinite third it's like a four hour long song.
Right.
Right.
Not not a four hour long song but it's a it's a seamless song to song.
They all kind of blend into each other.
Yeah.
Stop for applause that much.
And even when I do I like to just kind of like oh really you just like make some kind
of like long piece and pretty much up into tracks.
No for infinite third and just for my performances it's like it's happening forever.
Like there's like little droney interludes that connect every song and try not to make
it like OK now a song's over.
Like every once in a while.
It's quiet.
Yeah.
So I like to kind of keep the the hypnosis of it and so that it doesn't kind of kill
the vibe.
And then also like I just it creates a really reflective environment at the right setting
like when I play for like say Grassroots Cava House for like four hours which I'm doing
on you know an upcoming Friday.
Yeah.
I just kind of install myself in there and people just come and go and hang out and talk
or not talk and do whatever and it's it's a really good environment for that.
So when it when it stops people are like still kind of in the zone and they're ready to just
like keep getting in the zone so just keep it going.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
This Billy Mays dot org.
Yeah.
So tell me what is it true that this was we were talking about earlier.
This was the website that you had created for your dad.
Not quite.
What I mean is that I was the only person in his circle at the time of his death or the
years before his death that said hey why don't you have like a website and why don't you
like have a presence where you can talk to people who are like fans of you and like why
aren't we connecting with these people more and you know sending them autographed photos
and stuff and because he was big in that he would carry around autographed photos.
Are you serious.
So like people would just get a picture with him and he was always down to pose for a picture
at the airport so if I would travel with him and we'd have to like stop every minute
to like take a photo I would take a lot of the photos and like get their information
and send it to him at the time it wasn't so connected all the time.
He would bust out these these photos that he would sign and give them to people and
it was kind of a bonus he's kind of over the top in a way but yeah he was just like he
loved it.
Yeah he liked connecting with the people.
I always noticed that he he would actually care about the people that were interested
in meeting him like there'd be a second of like yeah I'm that guy blah blah blah take
a picture and then he'd be like what do you do and like I would see him get in all these
like really genuine conversations with really your everyday person who just was a fan for
a minute and like that was something I really looked up to yeah just in who he was as a
person because he was kind of like that with everybody he would on the on the set he would
he would talk to like all the crew members and like he was never like too good or anything
or yeah he was just kind of like one of the guys and yeah so anyway I always thought well
why wouldn't we connect digitally and like make it happen and so he kind of like agreed
to that by the time he died and I was basically envisioning what it would be and where we'd
put all the videos and how we would do it and stuff and like a welcome video like hey
welcome to my website this is 2009.
So you're like the Billy Mays creative director.
Yeah I would have been I was and I guess yeah now I actually am.
Now you literally are.
So what I mean is that like when he died I knew that I wanted to do some non-profit work
like under his name as a tribute but I never really knew how and like I didn't really have
the resources to just like start doing charity I didn't have like tons of money to donate
and stuff like that so there wasn't anything that was obvious so there were a couple iterations
of me trying to figure out how to do this non-profit thing and then over the years I
think I became more mature and I learned things and I kind of decided that I can tell his
story kind of like pay tribute have like these fun you know posts and meme collections.
Yeah there's a whole page on this website BillyMays.org that's dedicated to memes.
Yeah like people tag me in memes all the time and I just like rip them and put them up here.
There's a ton of Billy Mays memes.
And I want people to send me them because they still exist and it's so funny that like
so funny that people are still making them and you know they've even evolved since his
death in some weird way but and and just like references when people see him referenced
in something and like he's been in he was on he was in Better Call Saul like that came
out like years after his death really there was an episode where the breaking the breaking
that's been on yeah Mike airman trout is breaking into someone's house like the classic
type of breaking bad scene where you know an assassins coming in silently into someone's
house but like there's a TV playing yeah and so the TV was playing and my dad's commercial
was on no shit they had to like get it cleared and stuff that's and yeah so there's like
moments like that he's in a couple movies like that in that capacity where he's just
on the TV in the movie but yeah it's so any of that I definitely like welcome yeah I'm
like I'm the soul Billy Mays historian you know yeah keep track of what where he appeared
and what happened yeah what work he did and I'm still trying to find all his commercials
there's like a million of them all trying to find them all and a lot of them are only
exist on tape and I don't know if you were to ballpark like a number on how many commercials
he's made how many would you say hundreds thousands yeah I mean if you really break it
down into the different versions of each one it could get into the high hundreds early
thousands maybe if you're like if there's like a thirty second one a minute one ninety
second right right like there was all that stuff but I would say hundreds and products
wise I think I don't know like sixty fifty sixty products like there's a big list maybe
not that many but yeah it's a lot when you look at it yeah some of them were bigger than
others and so I eventually realized that I can like combine those two things like paying
tribute to him and like kind of having the fun of you know sharing this stuff with people
who still care about him and also do nonprofit work so back at the beginning of two thousand
nineteen I connected with my friend Mike who owns the Dunedin brewery in Dunedin Florida
it's like Florida's oldest micro brewery he had always been down to do something like
this and we finally just like decided what it would be and it would be a tribute beer
because they had done a few other types of tribute beers over the years yeah and so it
also has meaning because my dad actually lived in Dunedin for quite a while so they brewed
this sort of orange IPA and we just decided to call the Billy Mays IPA and it was released
on the 10 year anniversary of his death really June 28th 2019 and for the first run we only
did it as a on tap at the brewery yeah and like a few other local places had a keg of
it just like for fun but when you go to the tasting room at the brewery which is awesome
by the way and they have like amazing food I've never been there I need to go there all
their beers are amazing and I don't drink like tons of beer but I've never had like
a bad beer from Dunedin brewery yeah yeah so on June 28th 2019 we we dropped the beer
and in the tasting room every pint that you buy a dollar fifty from each purchase it hasn't
even happened yet is getting donated to the laundry project which is a charity that I
chose to partner with which is Tampa based and I thought it was relevant because the
laundry thing right and they do free laundry days pop-ups at laundromats all in different
cities and communities nice pay for everyone's laundry yeah I volunteer with them sometimes
it's so awesome they just like they get a team there they bring soap and quarters that's
wild coffee and they just advertise like you can come today and get your laundry free laundry
so it costs a lot to do like tons of people you realize how how efficient you have to
be like they have to plan it out so that like everyone's keeping track of who's stuck
what so put names on the thing so that it can keep going because it gets pretty filled
pretty fast you still want to get as many as you can it's it's a really fun time and
so we just finished the first batch of the IPA and they're working on the second batch
right now really about to make the first donation to the laundry so cool I don't know much so
we can literally go to the brewery and buy it not right now it's sold out right now sold
out yeah so the first batch sold out I think maybe like last month or something okay it
lasts about three months okay something like that and so we're working on what we're going
to do for the second batch and if we're gonna make it different might do cans I would like
to take it further and each can have different art on it a different Billy Mays theme on
there oh my god that would be so sick I'm into that I want to do like I want to do like
a big event it's like a can release fundraiser that has bands and you know shirts and just
auctions and art auctions and stuff I own a lot of Billy Mays art that people have made
over the years really oh yeah like cool little paintings and stuff and I like big paintings
as well so I imagine one day I'll be able to possibly use those for yeah yeah a little
gallery yeah selling sick man yeah well cool dude thanks so much for doing this yeah thanks
for coming yeah what uh tell people like the the main social media links or where they could
find you where they can find you online yeah at infinite third spelled out th i rd on instagram
and twitter and I have facebook pages and stuff like that but really just you can find me if
you search Billy Mays a third I I I find all my stuff yeah I have tons of albums on band
camp and on iTunes and Apple music and Spotify and all that under infinite third if you want
to check out the mouth council mouth council stuff it's pretty much best to just like on
youtube because there's not really much like you search more videos but yeah I'm always
around I'm always touring I'm trying to go to more cities in 2020 you post the dates up
on the website and stuff yeah infinite third dot com always has all the dates including
mouth council dates okay links to event pages and stuff like that I personally keep up with
it and I type it out every couple days I'll update it hell yeah yeah I'm super reachable
if people want to try to contact me and collaborate or something like that just yeah cool dude I'm
super pumped for uh for saturday yeah come out there yeah cool man it's gonna be fun all right
dude thanks again cool thank you
