Yo, congrats on your new Netflix documentary, it is fantastic.
Thank you.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome.
Yeah.
How's it doing?
Millions of views.
Yeah.
As far as we understand it, yeah, they don't give us too many details, but yeah, it seems
to be doing well.
It was in the top 10 for at least two weeks, so I think that's good for a pretty humble
little show like ours.
It was the top 10 in 44 countries, I think, and four in the world at one point, and number
two in the US at one point.
After Avatar, Avatar the Last Airbender, which is a tough, you know, a tough competitor.
Tough hell to climb for us.
You guys have been friends for a long time, right?
Yeah.
Like childhood.
Mm-hmm.
How long ago did you start working on the story?
I started in about 2012, and Zack started in about 2017, but he was always sort of like
a sounding board for me, you know?
He was someone when I had questions or when I had learned something really interesting,
I would, you know, tell Zack about it.
So by the time he actually started, he was, he had been talking to me about it for five
years, and he wasn't like totally oblivious as to what was going on, you know?
He was able to hit the ground running.
So what were you guys doing when, or what were you doing specifically when you started
investigating this?
Were you just doing it as like a side hobby, or were you working, like reporting on it
for a publication, or how much time were you spending on it, and what was your life
like at that point in time?
My timeline is a little bit confusing, and we kind of like compress it in the show.
Right.
So I basically dropped out of college when I was, after my junior year of college at
Western Kentucky University, and moved to New York City, and started shooting for the
New York Times as a freelance photographer.
I did that for about three years until I was about 25 or 26, and my little sister got cancer,
and I went home to Kentucky to be, you know, close to her, and basically she's fine now,
but while there, I decided to like finish my degree, and rather than, I was studying
photojournalism before, and rather than finish in that, I'd already been shooting for the
Times for three years.
I had, you know, front pages, and, you know, good clips from that time.
I finished with a degree in journalism writing, which was something that also interested me.
And the final, sorry, I feel like I'm being so boring talking about my college.
I feel asleep, sorry.
Yeah, and I'm falling asleep talking.
But the final semester, we had to write a magazine style investigative piece on the
theme of the role of money in politics.
Okay.
And while I was in college, the New York Times would continue to give me assignments, you
know, in Kentucky when stuff would come up.
And so I was trying to figure out what I was going to write about on this theme, and the
Times called and sent me to a factory in Kimblesville, Kentucky that was going to lose its military
contract to make shirts for the Navy and, you know, or an underwear for the Army, you
know, something like something like that.
And basically, and the reason why they were likely going to lose their contract was because
the this next round of bids, they were going to be competing against prison factories and
you can't really compete with basically slave labor.
Wow.
So that kind of turned me on to the idea of prisons.
And then, you know, I'm digging into prisons, I'm like, I'll probably write something for
this class about prisons.
And that led me to the Wackenhut Corporation because they were the second largest private
prison company in the U.S. and also the first.
What do you mean?
They were a private prison company?
Right.
They contract with the BOP as a private corporation to, you know, they basically they're basically
running a hotel that you can't leave and they're getting paid by the day, by the bed, you know,
by the by the prisoner.
Because there's so many prisoners in the United States, the BOP can't, you know, they
don't have enough facilities in these kind of private companies moved in to try to help
alleviate that.
So Wackenhut was paying the BOP?
No, no, no, no.
The BOP is paying Wackenhut to imprison people for them.
Oh, OK.
And they also do a lot of like the name has been there.
The Wackenhut Corporation was a giant private security company in started by George Wackenhut,
who was an FBI.
It was founded actually down in South Florida in Coral Gables, but they had offices eventually
all over the world.
They did, you know, kind of like security and kind of espionage type work, but then they
eventually got into this private prison.
That was like a, you know, a subset, a subset of the company called Wackenhut.
They were just always looking for new business opportunities.
And the first one, I think that they started was an immigration prison.
It was the first private prison in America.
And it was an immigration detention center.
Wow.
And that got, you know, George Wackenhut and his board of directors, I guess, eventually,
which were all of these people.
We go into it in the show.
These three letter agencies, the, you know, heads of former heads of three letter agencies,
FBI, CIA, NSA, weirdly, J.C.
Penny is one of them.
It's like, what are they doing?
And so they were just, they were finding new business opportunities, private prisons.
They run a lot of, ran a lot of security for just regular office buildings.
You know, I think our composer was talking about how he grew up in Florida and his,
his like neighborhood or something.
There was a neighborhood association or something or like the gate or whatever had their logo on it.
In area, you've got the book Area 51.
They guard, they had the contract to guard the test site at Area 51.
There's a lot of mention in Annie Jacobson's book about knucklehead stuff that Wackenhut guards got up to on that,
on those grounds, like crashing helicopters, I think, and this other.
So the Wackenhuts, when you discovered Wackenhut, somehow that led you to Danny Castellero?
Yes, because Danny, so I'm basically just pulling a lot of research materials,
articles about Wackenhut.
And I pulled an article that mentioned, you know, both Wackenhut and Danny Castellero.
It was an article from 1993 in Spy Magazine, which was an account of Danny Castellero's death and,
and his, what he was kind of working on that led to his death and the people he was talking to.
It was written by a former NYPD detective named John Connolly.
But when I find this thing, not in the magazine itself, but just on some third party website,
I read it, you know, it mentions, you know, Wackenhut.
It mentions this journalist I never heard of who died.
And I thought it was, no joke, I thought it was like Iran-Contra fan fiction.
Like somebody kind of just made all this stuff up.
They were really into Iran-Contra and they invented this journalist.
Because it seemed so, you know, it seemed so absurd.
It seemed made up.
And then, you know, but I'm like, realized because, and I'd never heard of Spy Magazine
because I was born in 85 and it shut down in 93 and whatever.
I just didn't know about it.
Turns out that looking back is, was one of the great magazines, I think of all time.
Right.
And so, yeah, so that I, and that article is actually part of a trilogy.
There was like a separate piece about Wackenhut and there was a separate piece
about what was going on in the Cabazon Reservation.
And that's how it comes up in this piece about Danny.
He was looking into Wackenhut and what they were doing in this joint venture
with a tiny Native American tribe near Indio, California called the, at that time,
called the Cabazon Band of Mission Indians.
Basically, Wackenhut was, and the Cabazons had plans to develop biological weapons
and night vision goggles and small arms for guerrilla armies in Central America.
So, for people that are listening who, if there's probably a few of them out there
who have not seen your documentary yet, can you basically give us like a 40,000 foot
overview, very brief description of what the story is?
I'm gonna let the brilliant director do it.
I'll try.
It's a complicated story, but it's a, it's fascinating.
So, I'll just do a quick one.
Wait, wait, is that, okay.
Actually, I'm gonna tee it up first.
Tear it up.
When I meet people in an elevator or whatever, I say it's a...
Elevator pitch?
Yes.
I say it's a murder mystery, spy thriller documentary.
And, you know, and then it centers around the story of a journalist who died
under mysterious circumstances in 1991 and it delves into what he was investigating.
That sort of led to that point in his life where he died.
That's the elevator pitch for me.
I think of the story, it's almost like a sort of like Russian nesting doll kind of thing.
On its very outside core, it's kind of about me seeing my friend Christian go into this
investigation as like a sort of citizen researcher, just a sort of random dude going into this
story.
And the story that he's going into is essentially his attempt to finish and the work and find
out what happened to this journalist, Danny Castellero, who died in 1991 in a hotel room
in Martinsburg, West Virginia, about an hour and a half outside of Washington, D.C., who
had been, and his death was ruled a suicide by the authorities and his family and friends
and colleagues at the time, once they found out that he had died and that they were calling
it a suicide, they were like, wait a second, you need to understand, we don't think it's
a suicide because of who Danny was, but mainly because of what he was looking into, which
was this dangerous story.
And that dangerous story with dangerous characters was, he had started one year earlier in August
of 1990 and it started essentially with him looking into this software program called
Promise and how that was allegedly stolen by the Justice Department and used as spy
software and then that led him to a source who said that he had been involved without
out of the Capuzhan Indian Reservation where the stuff that Christians have been talking
about is going on with Wacken Hut and there was a triple homicide, this is still unsolved
murder there.
Other people who were around to this source of Danny's, Michael Ricanichudo, had died
also in San Francisco.
And then it leads him to another people in this world who claim that it's actually connected
to all these other scandals.
And so Danny's story eventually becomes that he writes over the, he is proposing to write
a book about this whole thing that he dubs the octopus and the octopus is kind of these
interconnected, mostly intelligence related, military intelligence related political scandals
from mainly the 1980s but also decades before that sort of the cast of characters who are
all and usually associated with the CIA or the predecessor of the OSS who had this network.
The octopus is kind of in his telling this network of intelligence operatives who have
gone rogue and are responsible sort of the hidden network behind many of the scandals
of the 80s that came to surface then, which was like Iran Contra, this banking scandal,
the savings and loan scandal, BCCI, which was this kind of third world but operating globally,
the first kind of global third world bank that had a private army.
Another bank called Nugan Han.
Another CIA related bank called Nugan Han.
All these different scandals, Iran Contra and Edward Wilson who was arming Libya kind
of maybe rogue or maybe with the CIA's approval, yeah, all these intelligence guys and including
his investigation of this software promise are interrelated and he calls this network
of intelligence people the octopus.
Yeah, it feels like the murder of this journalist Danny Castellaro is just the very tip of the
iceberg or like a tree that's above ground and below that is this giant root ball of
shadow government that I did not expect when I started this because I didn't know anything
about this.
I just thought this was a true crime investigation on a guy who got whacked and tried to figure
out who was behind it.
Allegedly got whacked.
That's literally, I mean, it's woven throughout the story beautifully but it literally seems
like it's maybe 10% of the whole entire meat of the whole thing.
This is a lot of documentary series about, you know, kind of murder mystery documentaries
are too long and...
In your opinion.
No, in a lot of people's opinion.
They stretch it out.
They stretch it out.
It's too long.
But this is like, it's so dense and packed and deep and layered and...
We just struggled to get what we got in there because there's so much stuff.
What made you guys decide to make it only four parts?
Netflix.
Netflix did that?
Yeah.
Well, when we...
What did we do?
Eight, obviously.
We originally, you know, before we even pitched it to anybody, it was like, well, obviously
it's eight tentacles, it's eight episodes.
And then by the time we were pitching it, we pitched it as five and then they were like,
yeah, it could be four or five and then it just took us, frankly, so long to make this
thing, I think, way longer than we ever wanted it to be.
It was so...
And we're proud of the end product and I'm happy that we took the time to do it.
But it was just...
How long was the production of it?
From the first time you guys met with Netflix to now?
Well, it was green in 2019.
Yeah.
But then there was a pandemic that set us back about six months, which was actually weirdly
beneficial to us because we'd never done anything like this before.
We needed the extra time to just...
To prep.
Research, prep, call people, like figure out what the heck we were doing.
So 2019, we had the meeting with them and we're green lit, but then it was like pandemic
happened.
We really started filming it in late 2020.
We shot our first interview, but we had shot things over the years before that because
we picked Michael up from prison in 2017.
The chronology gets twisted and stuff because if we started where we started in 2017, nobody
had any idea who Michael is.
So it's like, well, we got to put that a little later.
And so if you're really paying attention, we're pretty accurate with the dates, but it's
not...
It's a story with multiple chronologies from the now, from early 2000s.
Danny's chronology is 1990 to 1991, but then the book he's writing starts in about 1980.
So we're also telling that story that starts with the 1980 election.
And then we're telling our chronology in the 2000s.
Did you start this thing with the goal of writing a book?
Yes.
Okay.
Are you still going to publish a book or no?
I still...
I have enough research to do the book, to write the book.
But we also want to do more documentaries, and I don't have eight arms, you know?
I'm not an octopus.
I think I'm going to do another...
Are you guys going to do another follow-up to this?
I mean, we can't say for sure, but there's just so much stuff that we wanted to do and
so many things that I feel like we've sort of hinted at in this that we just feel compelled
to finish some of these stories and push the ball a little further.
I mean, I think that we've hinted that we've gotten more stuff coming over the transom
and we want to do it, but it's like, do we have plans?
Do we have a contract to do it?
Absolutely not.
If Netflix slams the door on my face, I'll hit up an literary agent and get going on
the book.
Right.
I've got at least two options.
So I was kind of shocked at the end of the documentary.
It seems like you believe that, and maybe I'm wrong, that Danny Castellaro did commit
suicide.
Is that right?
I do believe that.
Wait, that he committed suicide?
Oh, sorry.
I spaced out.
Hey, clip that, Steve.
You asked me, do I think that...
No, I mean, there's a point where I...
Throughout this whole process, you can make a really good case for murder and a really
good case for suicide.
The problem is that both of the arguments are so...
There's so much kind of compelling data on both sides.
As a researcher, when you're looking at the stuff, you're kind of getting ping-ponged
back and forth between these two conclusions, and Zach's captured and showed that feeling
of, oh, maybe he did kill himself, or then maybe he got killed.
You're always...
Sometimes in one day, you're experiencing those questions.
There's got to be fatigue to this, to spending so much time and getting the factor of getting
burned out.
Yeah.
We burned out and re-lit the candle.
Many times over.
Many times.
But yeah, I think at the end, we show this that there was...
The police had said he was alone in Martinsburg, and then we showed this composite drawing
that clearly he had been with someone.
Basically, I mean, how I view it is like...
Another person saw someone entering the room, and so now we're dealing with disinformation
and...
Christian...
Disinformation, not disinformation, but there is disinformation out there as well.
I think Christian's, like, how I see it, his default position, right, is kind of like...
This process was kind of like 51%, and it would vary widely, and both would vary widely
on this sort of going over the edge on this either way, of like 51%, Christian's kind
of like the, I think Danny was murdered guy, and I'm kind of like the 51% Danny committed
suicide guy.
You know, that's kind of...
51% he committed suicide.
That's kind of my default position.
I'm just like inherently a skeptic of conspiracy stuff, and just the idea that there should
be such an organized...
It's very difficult murder to pull off cleanly, where you have zero physical evidence linking
it to, you know, for it to be such a bloody room, and nobody having seen somebody.
No bloody footprints, you know, and so...
Suicide now.
So, but we would...
Did they analyze the handwriting from the suicide note?
It claimed they did.
It looks like his handwriting.
Does it?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, there is also, importantly, a suicide note.
But wasn't he also missing three fingernails, and one of the biggest parts of it is his
tendons were severed?
How do you sever your own tendons and use your thumbs to sever the other tendon?
When we interviewed one of the paramedics who found him, who's now a medical examiner
actually, which is interesting to me, that was his big point, right, is like, and we
showed in the documentary is, like, how do you hold a razor if your tendons are severed,
because you can't grip anything with your opposable thumbs, right?
Was it an actual razor blade he used?
Yeah.
Okay.
And so, you know, and I think that's a really good point, but we...
He or they?
Or they?
Right.
You're saying...
Right.
Right.
Or the person.
Or the person.
Yeah.
What's his name?
Joe.
So, anyway, what I'm trying to say is, like, we would very, you know, we would go back and
forth about this constantly.
And I think that you see a little bit of that tension of us trying to grapple with this throughout
the process.
I would say that, like, for me, when I read the FBI's report on what...the DOJ FBI report
on what happened to Danny Castellero, that was basically...there were several investigations,
but there was the Martinsburg Police investigation, which was immediately after Danny's death.
And then there was a follow-up investigation by Jan Arino's Justice Department, and it's
on a federal level.
And they were reviewing the Martinsburg Police Department's thing, and then they were reinterviewing
people.
But when I read that thing, I found it to be a very compelling snapshot of what Danny's
life was in the year before he died.
And their conclusion is that Danny committed suicide, and they lay out...it's a good, you
know, useful timeline of what they knew of what he was doing in Martinsburg and all
that stuff.
But as we show, and this is sort of like a spoiler alert, I would encourage anybody
to really go on the ride of watching the movie before listening to what I'm about to say.
But once we, in Christian, got the documents from Martinsburg Police Department that nobody
had seen since they were created outside of the police, which we had been told repeatedly
were under seal from the Department of Justice, from the federal Department of Justice.
We were told, we can't fulfill this FOIA request because the DOJ says we can't.
That was what they told Christian years ago.
I came back to them and I said, please show me a piece of paper that says that the DOJ
has this under seal because...
Right.
How do they...
Show us anything.
Show us anything.
And they thought they sort of, you know, would push back and then eventually, and you see
it in the show, their lawyer called me a really nice guy and he said, you know, I can't find
anything.
Like, you're welcome to see these things.
And so after pushing on them pretty hard and banging down the door, we finally got access
to that.
What I'm trying to get at is that the story, the official story of what happened to Danny
Castellero according to the authorities, which is the Martinsburg Police Department and the
FBI and the DOJ, is clearly not the real story, right?
Because they suppressed a letter or a witness document.
They essentially, in my view, and I don't cast even blame or aspersions, it's a complicated
story.
Even if there's nothing pernicious going on, evil, DOJ, cover up, like, it's just a complicated
story.
And like Christian says, if you want to conclude that Danny committed suicide, that's a solid,
you know, a couple of months of your life investigating it.
If you want to conclude that he was murdered, it opens up so many problems because it's
like what Danny was looking into that people he was dealing with are so difficult to pin
down their role, their connection to the federal government is pretty messed up.
And it just creates problems, right?
And it just creates a lot of time, you just have to go, it took Christian 12 years to
do this thing, right?
And you know, you could argue we didn't get fully through everything.
So it's a lot easier to say he committed suicide.
And that's what they said.
And so whether they were disingenuous or not, the problem is that there was the evidence
they presented was all the evidence that supports their conclusion.
Yes.
And they didn't include any of the stuff that raises questions like, oh, well, there was
somebody who saw somebody else going into his room.
Why did they hide that?
Well, why not follow up with the woman and ask her more questions?
You know, it's like, or there was this somebody who gave a sketch or somebody else, you know,
if your theory is Danny went to Danny was depressed, screwed around by all these conspiracy
nuts, went to Martinsburg had had no evidence to back up this wild story that he had been
fed by these con artists was so depressed that he had no money.
He commits suicide in a bathtub in a bathtub in Martinsburg in 1991.
Okay.
So and he met no one.
He didn't meet anybody that weekend.
Okay.
Well, if you have anything that shows that he was meeting with people, it's a problem
and they didn't include that stuff.
So what I'm getting at is, you know, the official story is not the story.
There were no work papers.
He didn't have any research papers on him at all.
He wasn't working on the story and this note in his shoe, there's like, oh yeah, we never
even bring that up in the show just because it's like, there's so many stuff that we just
couldn't fit into the into the program.
It's good to be able to come here and kind of tell all the stuff that we couldn't fit
in, you know, but the note in the shoe is really weird.
What's the note in the shoe?
He has like a chapter outline for well, to tell it like the note in the shoe, there was
a piece of paper in his shoe that was sent off to the West Virginia State Police for
and they sent all the evidence, all the stuff that was with the physical evidence, all the
physical evidence and one of the people in the lab found just a blank piece of paper in
his shoe.
But this enterprising dude who we could never get access to, he would never return our calls.
He's a lab technician and he like does some sort of chemical analysis on it or something
and it shows that it's actually got an imprint on it of some of that was written on the same
legal pad, legal paper that the suicide note was written on and it's an outline of the
first chapter, right, of Danny's book.
So it's like, okay, he has no papers with him in Martinsburg, except he obviously is
like working on this thing when he's, you know, it's very strange and why is that piece
of paper in his shoe, it doesn't give us any sort of, you know, it's like, wow, that's the
smoking gun, but it's just like, it's just weird.
It's the sizzling data point.
Yeah.
It's just, it's just crazy because I mean, the whole first 80, 90% of the documentary
just like is blatantly in your face that this guy got murdered, you know, even leading up
to the couple of weeks before he got, or the weeks before he died when he's getting calls,
people threatening to kill him.
And he's telling his brother and telling people like, if something happens to me, it was not
an accident.
And then so if he's doing all this stuff and telling the story to all these people, why
would you go kill yourself just to make some grandiose?
That's what doesn't sit well with me is that if he did kill himself, he was also conning
his family into believing that he was murdered in this elaborate thing because they're Catholic
and whatever.
And I, as I've gotten to know the Castellera family and what I've learned about Danny,
just that, that also just does not seem kosher.
And I don't like that.
That's a tough part for me that he would like lie to his brother and con his family.
As a caveat, and Tony, his brother says this in the documentary, it's like, anybody can
commit suicide for any number of reasons, you know, and it's like, we're not psychologists
nor are we like qualified to really weigh on this, but like, I like to keep a very open
mind.
It's like, there's no, there's no, you know, just like, oh, well, he definitely didn't
commit suicide because, you know, it's, it's, it's a complicated subject matter that's too
complicated for us to even like have fully gone into and told his story and the thing.
So we keep an open mind about that, you know, I just want to say that.
If this sort of shadow organization or shadow government of people whose job it is to assassinate
people and traffic drugs and weapons across the world and do things to avoid laws, if
that existed in the nineties, there has to be remnants or echoes of it now.
And that being said, have you, were you guys ever worried about the same fate that happened
to Danny?
Like, did you guys ever get contacted by anyone?
Were you guys ever fearful?
Do you guys get any calls or there were a lot of people who said that we should be worried.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms.
With only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee, you get energy without the jitters
or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose, cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot
chocolate like flavor, lion's mane to support focus, cordyceps to help support physical
performance and both chaga and reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about Mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their time to
find all the perfect ingredients to develop a product that helps you feel better every
single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments as they believe the country
is in a mental health epidemic and sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals with depression,
PTSD, anxiety and other mental health experiences.
So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below mudwater.com forward slash Danny
and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny and use the promo code Danny at checkout to get
15% off.
Please link below.
Now back to the show.
You know, who were from the, who knew parts of the story, who would tell us and you hear
it in the show, the people saying, there was a guy that told us like, we should definitely
either A, stop immediately what we're doing and or B, let him mail us this plutonium tip
bullet and this adapter to like 45 millimeter or was it, it was a, he was like, like a suicide
pill.
No.
Stop anything in his tracks, the bullet, you know, yeah, he was like, he was like, oh,
look, if you're, if you're really going to go into this thing, if you're really serious
about it, listen, buddy, like you got to be careful because when those guys come through
the door, you need to be ready.
And he's talking about essentially like, I don't know, intelligence assassins, probably
CIA, assassins or something that we're going to somehow come through the door and kill
Christian.
But he's like, he's like, here's what we're going to do.
I'm going to send you a 10 millimeter, not a nine millimeter, a 10 millimeter modified
barrel that shoots these special bullets.
And I'm going to, he's like, what's your mailing address?
And Christian's like, what?
I'm not going to, I don't think that you should be mailing me gun parts to New York
City.
You know, I'm not going to carry around plutonium tip bullets in Manhattan.
It's not what, and he was just like, he's like, these people, ultimately, all you got
to do is point and shoot because they're dumb as rocks.
You know, it's like, right, like, who did this guy work for?
How did you guys get in contact?
Basically, the story, your question though, like, you have to be so paranoid.
Yeah, paranoid, but also like a bit cavalier.
And we also believe in what we're doing, right?
So like, I don't know, it felt more important to me to like, continue on than
to check it out, right?
And then plus, like there weren't, we didn't really have that much heat.
And what you were saying about if there's like modern leave, no trace assassins,
like deploying them is a really big deal.
And are you deploying them over a 30 year old case that's already so confusing?
And, you know, either way, we're whatever.
I think we did a good job with the documentary, but it's like, we're still
discussing, we still don't know everything.
We don't know everything.
So, you know, you got to, you send about to some, you know, the those
assassins go to much bigger targets than us, you know, one would hope you would.
Right.
I mean, the idea is like, it's, it's some of the stuff that you guys are uncovering.
It's kind of like an example would be the Kennedy assassination, right?
Like everybody knows for by and large that they know what was going on.
They know that Lee Harvey Oswald was not a lone assassin, but it's like the
government doesn't really need to like come out and defend itself.
All it has to do is just shut up because, I mean, there's just, there's such a descent
and people kind of know what happened.
And there's been all these declassified documents.
It's kind of like already out in the ether.
Like, yes, everybody knows what's going on.
But we don't tell it.
Organizations fuel the descent and the confusion.
Right, right, right.
We discussed that in the show.
Like that's, that's part of their modus operandi.
They intentionally see strategic confusion into this and make it work for it.
It's almost like, I look at it almost like they just can't lose in terms of
like this thing coming out because it's like, if you believe, and I think that we
show clear evidence of intelligence operations that have gone like probably
very far away from their original, if there was ever a noble intent, you know.
But like, if you look at those, it just in my mind helps them just as much as not
knowing about it because it's like, OK, well, the CIA and the intelligence
community gets away with all kinds of stuff and they look like badasses.
They look like people who can take you out for doing whatever.
So it's like, that helps them to that.
They're smart.
They seem like they know they're they're they're on top of this stuff.
And it says to their enemies, you know, abroad or wherever, don't fuck with us.
You know, it's like it's it's all good for them in my mind.
It's that's kind of depressing.
But that's kind of how I see it.
That this film
or in 1993, this story was an unsolved mystery episode.
Yes, unsolved mysteries, unsolved mysteries.
I liked in the early days, I used to people like, what are you doing?
Like, what have you been doing, Christian?
I'd be like, I'm trying to solve this, you know, I'm working on an unsolved mystery.
Is that the guy with the amazing voice?
It was Robert Stack. Yeah, I think that's the guy.
Yeah. And then later, Dennis Farina.
Yeah.
In a trench coat, Robert Stack would be like walking through a park
somewhere in a fog. Yeah.
So the unsolved mystery, they interview Michael Ricanichudo,
one of the main characters and Tony Castellaro
and Anne Clank, who are up here in our show.
And Bill Hamilton and Bill Hamilton, the founder of the company.
Yeah. So it's the show just to give a background.
It's mainly about the kind of like our first episode almost.
It's like it's mainly about the scope of the story
as Danny died under mysterious circumstances in a hotel room.
And there he was looking into this software program.
That's really what they mainly talk about.
Anyways, so at the at the end of the
at the end of the show, the sort of cliffhanger that it ends on is this
account that people that were at Danny's funeral have of a man
in military, military formal uniform,
looks high ranking, lots of medals, puts a medal on Danny's grave before it goes away.
Yeah. And it doesn't say anything and just kind of like approaches the grave,
puts a medal on it.
And, you know, the that medals, presumably underground in the cemetery
in our in Fairfax, if you're looking at the actual episode,
it's there's usually two per thing.
So it's it's halfway through.
Shuttle and early Richardson.
There we go. Here we have the funeral scene.
Yeah. This is full screen this.
So is this a reenactment?
Obviously, yeah.
So they tell this story about there was a mystery man at the funeral
who nobody knew from the family.
Nobody knew who this guy was.
And he shows up and he puts lays a medal down on Danny's grave.
He puts a medal down on on Danny's casket.
And everybody's like, whoa, like was Danny like the implication is like,
was Danny actually secretly working for some sort of
intelligence operation or military, you know, thing?
Like was Danny's life actually much deeper and darker than we even knew about?
You know, uh-huh.
And so it was just sort of like this like unsolvable.
Was the guy wearing all that military brass like that?
And he's wearing a full his full uniform.
Oh, wow. So so anyways, basically, at this point, you know,
in this is probably like 2012 or 2013, my earliest phase of of doing research
for the book. And, um, basically, and also one thing that that there is
some writing about Danny Castellero out there.
There are two books, but they don't really go in.
It's not like kind of like a traditional biography.
Like one of them's kind of about just kind of polls, different, you know,
newspaper articles and magazine articles and kind of is a sort of like collage of kind
of different secondary source material.
Right.
And then the other one is Sherry Seymour's book, which is is like a wild book.
And it's that's her investigation into like what was going on on the West Coast.
And there's a little bit about Danny, but it's not it's not so it's not a biography of Danny.
So I always found it interesting that he worked in computer trade publications.
He worked. He published computer industry newsletters.
And I thought that was interesting because a software scandal propelled him into this story.
And that kind of like had never been dug into.
And I thought it give him credibility as a journalist.
Like this guy knew about software.
There weren't a lot of reporters who knew about computer software back in 1991.
So basically, I wanted to like kind of dig in and like really paint a picture of like what life was
like leading up to him getting into into the case and just writing about computers for this newsletter.
Under the heading computer age was the application.
So I would look at the, you know, old issues of it and there'd be like on the masthead,
just names of different people that work there.
So I just started calling people that work there, you know, lived in the Virginia area.
They'd tell me what life was like working for this newsletter with Danny.
And they'd tell me other people that worked there to call.
And so I called this guy, I guess I'll leave his name out just for whatever reason.
And he, it was told to me that he worked in the print shop, you know,
they would print the newsletters and they'd mail them out every day or whatever.
And, you know, I'm just, I'm not, I got zero expectations for this call other than,
you know, in little, maybe what was Danny like, what was Danny like, what was like working with him.
So basically the guy picks up the phone and he's like, I've been waiting, you know,
ever many years it had been at that point, 20 years for this call.
And I was like, yeah, and he's like, yeah.
And I'm like, why? And he's like, well, I'm the guy.
And I'm like, what guy? He's like, have you seen the Unsolved Mysteries program?
And I was like, yeah. And he's like, I'm the guy. And I'm like, what guy?
And he's like, you know, the guy in the military uniform who puts the metal on Danny's grave.
And I was like, yeah. He's like, that was me. And I was like, well, why didn't you ever come
forward? There's all this question about it. And he's like, look, if anybody's going to
figure out what happened to Danny, they better be able to figure out who I am.
You know, if you can't figure out who put the metal on the grave,
like you're definitely not going to figure out what happened to Danny because this guy,
he was there, you know, that was kind of his point. And he was like, you know,
you found me. Good job. And so I was like, what's the story, dude? You tell me why'd you do it.
And so basically he and Danny after work would like sit out in the parking lot of this kind of
sort of business park in Virginia, and they'd have a beer after work. And they were very close
friends. They weren't, they didn't really hang out socially, but they hung out, they were close
at work. And Danny had told him at a certain point that he wished he was, had been in the
military. He wished he'd gone to war because he wished he had gotten a medal. And that always,
and this guy was like in horrible combat in Vietnam and had won many medals. And, you know,
suffered from really bad PTSD that, you know, when we met with him later, we, it was very palpable.
So basically when he went to go to the funeral that morning, he remembered Danny telling him about
wished, how he wished he'd gotten a medal. And he decided to put on his military formal uniform.
He was retired. He obviously worked at the print shop now. And he brought his best medal.
And he gave it to Danny. Wow. That's pretty wild. We interviewed a really sweet guy.
It couldn't fit it in the movie. It was like to bring that story up. We'd have to go into the
world and solve mysteries. We had so many timelines and things. It was like, it doesn't get us any
closer to actually solving the things we set out to solve that it just kind of sat on the cutting
room floor. But I love that story. And he's such a sweet dude that I kind of, you know, I miss not
being able to put that in the movie just because he's such a cool guy. But now it's a concrete
exclusive. Concrete exclusive, baby. Yeah. One of my buddies who, he used to be
produced documentaries for vice back in the day and he put it to me best. He goes,
editing, especially stories like this, when you're editing, he's like, it's just deleting.
Just go through and start deleting shit. And I imagine for a story that takes this long,
like deleting stuff has got to be really hard. Painful. What was, what was the part for you that
was the hardest to remove from the final cut? Oh my God. I mean, there were, you know, since
it's four episodes, it's like, you know, there's a lot, so many things. I think for me, my biggest
sort of, I don't know, regret or wishes is that we had been able to get into the conclusion to the
Cabazon story, which goes beyond sort of Danny's story of it, because he was really interested
in the intelligence side and what was going on with Wacken Hut. But it really, and it would
take us out. The reason we couldn't do it is so hard to like keep our, once again, the chronologies
going and people would just kind of watch cuts of this and be like, okay, this is cool guys,
but I simply am so lost, you know? And so we couldn't do it. We can't just lose everybody.
Because then we've made nothing, essentially. But so this is the interesting story of,
I'll just try to give an overview, but I think some of the details are important, right? So
our story is about, part of our story, essentially episode two is about a guy named Dr. John Philip
Nichols, white dude who had been living in Florida, but had gone all around the world,
doing all kinds of weird, in my mind, operations, likely intelligence related, in some respect.
And he brings his family, his three sons and his daughter and his wife, to the Coachella Valley,
to the Cabazon Indian Reservation, where he sets up as a grant, he's like a grant writer,
federal grant writer, and he becomes a tribal administrator of the small tribe. And our story,
we take it from the moment, you know, he arrives to him starting a cigarette,
tax-free cigarette operation to raise money, tax-free alcohol operation to raise money,
then he opens up the first poker casino in an Indian Reservation. And what we don't really,
what we didn't really have time to get into was just the constant conflict of those entities
and the local law enforcement. Because it was illegal, what he was doing, according to California,
and according to local officials in India, California, which was selling tax-free cigarettes
and tax-free alcohol and opening a poker room, you're not allowed to do that without a license.
Was he essentially just trying to launder money?
Well, he was, they were making money. The idea was to make money because if you're selling
cigarettes and you're not paying taxes, tons of people are going to come in and you can do a
mail-in business, you can just raise funding. But a lot of them just didn't work out, the tribe
kept on being like, where is the money going? Like, you say you're making out this money,
but we're going bankrupt. Like, the cigarettes thing went bankrupt. They had all these legal,
they were constantly being, the poker casino was raided all the time by like the Indio and then
the share, I think the, whatever, state police, law enforcement, kept on raiding them, shutting
them down, opening them. They sued the state of California. And this is where we don't get
into this in the documentary at all. And I wish this is an opportunity to kind of get into it,
was just like that lawsuit, that sort of strife started in the early 80s. And then John Philip
Nichols, we do mention, you know, there's a triple homicide that was sort of covered up there.
And he was, in our view, I think definitely involved with that triple homicide. And he was
never caught for that, but he was in 85, arrested for solicitation of murder. He had hired five
murders, and he accidentally, you know, hired it from an informant. And in 85. And so he goes to
jail, he gets arrested for solicitation of murder. Hold on. In 85. Hold on. 85. Is that before the
Cabazon thing? Triple homicide is in 81. And it said, got it. Triple homicide is in June of 81.
Then the morasca, the financier for the night vision goggles on the Cabazon reservation,
that's six months later. In San Francisco. Yeah. Okay. And this is like all that story.
And then he gets caught. Okay, got it. He's arrested. Wackenhut is gone, you know, and it's
just like a different scene at the. There was a really nice moment that I wish was in there,
that our editors put together. There was Bobby Moses Nichols, who is his son, who we interviewed
for the movie. Talks, tells this story. He's like, he's like, and then I get a call from my dad,
and he does this interpression. He's like, Bobby, I'm in jail. A million dollars bail.
So he goes, he gets arrested for, for the solicitation of murder. And in that, when he was
hiring this person to murder these like essentially drug dealers, or drug related people,
he, he also says, I think this is really telling, I've got more work for you in South America if
this works out. So it's like, wait, 85? Like, is he still active in like central and South American
politics? Or, you know, right? Parapolitics or whatever you want to call that, assassinations,
or business or something. It's like very straight or drugs or whatever it is. Anyway,
he goes to jail. While he's in jail, the case, Cabazon versus the state of California,
is going, winding its way through the court system and ends up in the Supreme Court.
In 80, I believe six, it's ruled by the Supreme Court that, that they were right. The Cabazon
and this, this nearby tribe, Marongo, I thought that either 86 or 87, but one year later is the
Indian Gaming Act. Okay. So I think that, I thought that was 87. I thought the verdict was 86,
but essentially, but, but it might be 87, 88. Yeah. So, so they say actually Cabazon versus,
like the Cabazons are right. Like they have tribal sovereignty. They are allowed to operate this
gaming, you know, what they call gaming poker, bingo, all this stuff on their own land, and they
can make money off of it. And that ruling is a huge deal in tribal, you know, in American tribal
relations, because it's for them for, it's a precedent for all of it, all of Native American
gaming. Why we have like, why we legally have, you know, the whatever casinos all over the
country that are legally allowed to operate, which I think has this kind of, to my, you know,
when I didn't know anything about this has this kind of like, like, Native American casinos,
like what's really going on there? Like, can't be good if it's gambling, you know, it's like,
that's kind of my like stupid ignorant perspective on things before I went into this. But if you
really talk to Native Americans that we've talked to, it's such a big deal because it's the first
time that they have money that is not like grants, you know, this is not being doled out to them in
some sort of like recompense for like the horrors that the American government for 400 years of
broken treaties. It gives them the ability to be financially independent, employ their own tribe
members and make money without just relying on some handout, some treaty that gets broken,
that's a handout from the federal government. It's really important. And it comes from our story,
it comes from John. The tribal members have, you get profit sharing. It's in, they get, it provides
college tuition, health care, all that stuff. Housing. So that was the lawsuit that set the
president for this to happen. Cabazon versus California. Yeah. And it was John Philip Nichols,
our controversial, one of our controversial main characters, this crazy documentary. It's his vision.
He's responsible. I mean, probably other people had the theory, but he's kind of like,
was the guy that threw the ball down. And tribe members obviously were involved in this thing,
but it was just kind of, it's just complicated because such a difficult to pin down, morally
difficult to pin down dude started Native American gaming in some respect. You can kind of kick it
back to him. So what was the reason he picked an Indian reservation to test out all these weapons
and military? It goes back to the same reason that that exists, which is tribal sovereignty.
You can't, you can't fire automatic weapons in California without like, Matt, you know,
the right kind of permits. And it's a way, it's a way to not have to deal with, you know, state laws.
So the laws are different on that piece of land. Tell them the, tell them the shrimp story.
What's the shrimp story? I'll give you the shrimp story, but just the, the sort of overview is like,
you know, whenever you're manufacturing arms, you have to have, you know, what's called like
eulahs and things like that, end user license certificates, things like, things like that
that are designed for people to be able to trace where arms came from and where they're going.
And it makes sure they're not quote unquote ending up in like the wrong hands or whatever.
And so this was, I think, according to John Nichols, the tribal sovereignty was almost like
they, they were their own country, you know, it's like, it's a country within a country from
California, the, or even the US, the silencers came from this sovereign tribe that is within the,
you know, a nation within a nation. Right. Right. Way to stay in the shadows, basically.
Easy to get the end user certificates if you're printing them yourself at the local office.
So, so, so we were, you know, we called tons and tons and tons of people, but one of the people
we found sort of through our research was this arms manufacturer who had, was going to do business
with John Phillip Nichols. We found some like paperwork with his name on it and we called him
up and he was like really nice, it was surprisingly open and we were driving around in California
just looking for, and this guy, he's like, he's like, oh yeah, I remember that guy, John Nichols,
really strange guy, you know, he, he, he wanted me to manufacture silencers. So, he brought me into
the, the tribal office there and we're sitting in there and he, he, he, he was like, how many
phone books, how many phone books would you need to be able to test this thing? He's like, right here,
he's like, yeah, how many phone books would the bullet, you know, not be able to penetrate? He's
like, I don't know what, five or something like that, right? So, he calls us, John Phillip Nichols
calls the secretary and he's like, get us five phone books, they're bringing in and she's like,
okay, anything else? He's like, no, he's like, leave, leave the door open. And so, this guy we're
talking to tells us a story about sitting in the office and shooting these phone books right there
and then he, and then John Nichols calls the secretary and he's like, hey, you know, Cynthia,
whatever name is, right, come in here and she's, he's like, did you hear anything? And she's like,
hear any what, you know, she's like, what is that smell? And it's the gunpowder.
And so, he's like, oh, pretty good silencers. And then, but I was like, well, so what happened
with the deal? You know, he's like, well, he wanted to pay me in shrimp.
Who wanted to pay in shrimp? John Nichols wanted to pay him in shrimp. And he's like,
he's like, he's like, this guy is so bizarre, you know, it's like, he's like, you know, he's just,
he's just up to his eyeballs and CIA stuff, but you'd never be able to like,
pin it down. But he's telling me that he wants to ship all these small arms over to the Philippines.
And he's like, they, you know, fighting this sort of like war of independence, right?
That was a kind of Reagan era initiative. And he's like, but they don't have any money.
What they do have a lot of is shrimp. So they're going to, we're going to take the guns,
we're going to put them on only federal, only federal roads, like they're going to go from
the reservation only on federal roads to the shipping port. So they never have to cross into
technically into California, where they can get seized. And they're going to be put on boats,
taken over the Philippines. And then the Philippine, Philippine governor or whoever
is on the receiving end is going to send back boat fulls of shrimp. And he's like,
he's like, I deal in money. I don't deal in shrimp, you know, no deal, no deal.
But it was just like, whoa, this guy, I almost like, look at John Philip Nichols in a certain
respect as like, you have a photo of this guy, Steve, you ever read catch 22? There's like the
Milo Mindenberger character who's basically a war profiteer who keeps on, he keeps on hustling
new ways to find money in the war, in the military industrial complex, which is at the time World
War II in that book. And he's like, he buys all this like surplus cotton. And then he's like,
and then he doesn't know what to do with all the cotton because he bought too much cotton. So he
starts like integrating it into the food, you know, it's like, it's just endless ways to find
money within the military. It's like mobsters, right? And he had mobsters who are in business
with the military. He had mob connections that we go into. And there's more that we didn't even get
into this show. One of his sons, his son, Mark, who recently passed away, his godfather on his
birth certificate was one of the top Milwaukee heads of one of the Milwaukee crime families.
Oh, that's nice. Where John Nichols lived and raised his family first. And he was tied in with
like Jimmy Hoffa and he was up high with Jimmy Hoffa and doing, because the teamsters,
they had some, he got in trouble for something he was doing with the teamsters and he ended up
with a federal warrant. And then that sent him off to South America. It's all very,
it's all gets like so crazy. But yeah, basically, it's like, John Nichols is like,
we're talking to Bobby about this. It's like, he's a mob CIA, grant writing, social worker,
psychologist, question mark slash like doctor of divinity allegedly. He had like a mail-in
doctorate for, for being a religious leader when he was doing stuff in Chile in South America.
And then later on, all over the world, really. Yeah, he looks like he'd be a good cult leader.
And that was the amazing thing really for us is like, we got audio recordings of him talking in
his own words about what he's up to. And it's like, no non law enforcement person had ever heard them
before. And how'd you guys get that? We're not going to tell you or anybody else. But we just
don't want to give up any sources. Plus like Christian, I mean, I'm new to this world. I've
never done anything investigative journalism was like, I just get really weird. You got an anonymous
source. You keep them that way. We keep them anonymous. Just an anonymous source. Yeah, sources
actually. Yeah. But, but what we're very proud of, and I don't think that we really made it as clear
as it could have been in the show is like being able to hear John Nichols in his own words,
talking about all this crazy stuff. And we don't make a big deal about it in the film. You just
like kind of like, you're just in the world and you hear this stuff. All these recordings you're
talking about right now, they're in the film. Yeah. Yeah. You hear John talking about Michael
and how valuable he is. Michael Ricanichudo, you hear him talking about
Philip Arthur Thompson and how great of a guy he is and how the FBI has a close relationship
with him. And it's like, oh yeah, the serial killer slash like, rapist, rapist, whatever.
Yeah, great guy. For me, it's really special and really amazing to hear it in his own words.
So while he's like saying like, yeah, and I'm a psychiatrist, I'm a social,
I'm a psychiatric social worker for Mike, I'm just helping Mike out. It's like,
by manufacturing weapons with him, like, what are you, where's the help start?
How do you guys, this is a question I asked Anna Jacobs, this is very relevant to you guys,
because you guys are talking to the same kinds of people, you're in the same exact world.
How do you discern whether somebody is trying to spin a web or like spin a story with you and
try to point you in a different direction than give you the truth? This episode of the podcast
is brought to you by Roan. If you're a fan of this podcast, you're already aware that I am one of
the most stylish, best dressed people in the world. Not really. But when I do have to go to a fancy
event, a dinner party, or even one of those fancy golf courses that makes you wear slacks and a
collared shirt, my go to is Roan. And it's because they fit the best, they're the most flexible,
and they don't shrink or wrinkle. Roan's commuter collection is the most breathable, comfortable,
and versatile set of clothing products known to man. Roan has clothing pieces for everyone and
for every occasion, whether you're one of those guys who likes to wear skinny pants on the T-box,
or you like to wear a pink polo or a blazer, no matter what it is or what you're doing,
they have a clothing piece for you that can be worn individually or mixed and matched with other
Roan products. And their signature far away stretch fabric is breathable, flexible, and will
work anywhere from your commute to the office to the 19th hole. This clothing is high tech.
The commuter collection not only features their wrinkle release technology that is 100% machine
washable, it's also treated with gold fusion anti odor technology. So you can get more
wears between washes and stay fresh all day long. And if you're like me, you probably don't have
tons of extra time to go to the mall, try on tons of clothes just to bring them home and have them
not fit anymore. And on top of that, all my other clothes are always wrinkled, not with Roan.
So if you want to support this podcast, check out Roan today. It's Roan.com slash Danny and you
can get 20% off your entire order. It's spelled R-H-O-N-E dot com slash D-A-N-N-Y for 20% off.
It's linked below. Now back to the show. I think that's that's an interesting question.
I mean, one thing is that there is, at least for me, any kind of like person that I would
seek out to talk to, I would be asking them, you know, ideally their first time account of
this series of events that we're focused on in this film, right? So there are names, dates,
you know, and there's this like kind of like inherent logic to what really happened because
A, FXB, FXC, and you know, there's a chronology of actual events that I'm very familiar with.
So if someone is telling me a story and their logic is flawed or their dates are wrong, like
wildly wrong or their names, the associations don't match with like what, you know, three other people
set. Right. If someone asked the three of us what happened today, we should all have a similar,
and it's obviously film, but if it wasn't film, we'd all have a similar account of what happened,
right? Right. It's hard to describe, but you know, it's like someone that is just like
mouthing off like, and didn't know anything, you can tell fairly soon.
But there's some pretty corroborating story.
Corroboration. There's some slippery characters in our thing, and we gave them,
the other problem is that some of this sort of misdirection that I think some of our characters
gave us and Danny and various people look into it, that's also kind of part of the story, right?
It's part of Danny's story if he's dealing with people who are giving him misinformation.
It's kind of part of our story because we do have very like firsthand,
there's a subjective layer to this whole thing, which is just,
this is what it feels like to go into this story if you're a guy like Christian or
eventually a guy like me or anybody who kind of walks into it blind without a lot of,
you know, without a motive or some sort of like, some sort of dog in the fight, you know.
But also the people that we talked to aren't, I mean, maybe there's exceptions,
but they're not usually completely out of left field will find their name and some sort of
deposition or some sort of police report or something somewhere.
We're not just like pick calling random numbers in the phone book and be like,
do you know anything about the Merasca murder? You know,
or like a lot of them are telling us, or some people told us stuff that was like,
you could plainly tell was not true or a version of the truth is not true, but there's value in
knowing that like that was what was being fed to Danny or it's being fed to us. It's like,
well, what's the motivation behind them because they oftentimes think they don't even know we think
is definitely not true. They think it is true, you know, they don't mean to be lying or deceiving,
but they misunderstand themselves in some cases. So I guess it's, that's what I think is,
I kind of differentiates this documentary movie show, whatever you want to call it,
from other, maybe like more like straight lay journalism is like,
we're interested in the misdirection, we're interested in like, because there's a story
behind it. And so when you deal with some of these people, it's fascinating to watch them
work and watch them tell you the story and see where they, where it goes with it. And I think
that we get into that, especially with Sherry, when you sort of see this misdirection that she's
experiencing with the JFK tape and all that stuff. That was wild. Yeah. That is very similar to what
she talks about in Area 51. I don't know if you're, I'm sure you guys, we talked about earlier, but
in Area 51. Sorry about the amazing ending. Well, no, no, no. I'm talking about when they,
when they were test, doing test flights on the first jet propelled airplanes at Groom Lake,
they would send the CIA paths, when they would go up, they would bring gorilla masks in the cockpit
with them. So when they got into visual distance of a commercial airplane, they'd put the gorilla mask
on to basically discredit whoever told the story, which is, I saw a jet plane, but it was a monkey
flying it. So yeah, that's very similar to kind of what I think Sherry's view of what happened
with Robert Knickles and the JFK tapes, plural, that she was shown. So yeah, explain to people
what happened at the end of that. And we haven't introduced that guy. Robert Knickles. Right, right.
Also, I want to say, like, I didn't mean to seem like such a conceded jerk when I was saying that,
like, oh, we're not going to tell you who the, like, who where we got this. I sounded like I was
like a little conceded with it, but it's like, I just mean that, like, we just can't tell about
what the sources are. I didn't mean to sound like I was holding it over you or something like that.
I'm so special. But so the Robert Knickles is, was a, why don't you tell who Robert Knickles is?
Because he's a friend of Mike's originally. It's how Danny.
It's also interesting, like, it's important to keep in mind that when Danny was talking to these
people, he didn't know what they looked like. He'd never heard of them before and pretty much
very few people had. They're obscure, underworld, literal underworld characters.
That goes for Michael Reconachuto and that goes for Robert Booth Knickles.
You know, these are just until Danny eventually meets them face to face. These are voices on the
other end of a phone that he's having late night conversations with and he's frantically taking
notes and they talk, you know, in the case of Robert Booth Knickles, they talk for hours, you
know, and Robert's out in California. So Danny will call him at like midnight and you, you know,
you see on his phone bills that they talk until three in the morning and then Danny wakes up and,
you know, or Bill calls Danny at six a.m. to Bill Hamilton, you know, Danny's just like getting
like pulled. He's not, you know, sleepy. He's getting pulled in all directions and he's just,
it's just important to paint the picture that nobody knows who this guy Robert Booth Knickles
is at this point in time. He's like, for us, he's like this icon in the octopus lore for
Christian to me. He's like this iconic dude, you know, who's like got all this like,
oozing mystery and stuff like that. He looks very like the Clark Gable thing going on.
He's like the ultimate bad guy. Yeah. Well, yeah. Or like a James Bond-ish kind of either,
depending on your side of it, villain or hero, right? And so, so, so then-
And he's like, he's cryptic and seems all knowing and travels the world and
unclear what he does for a living. He's tall and handsome and tough, tough and scary.
Right. And I mean, the way he entered, I mean, he was out at Cabazon. He had this
patent for basically like a Mac-10 submachine gun that he was pedaling to the Cabazon Wagonhut
Joint Venture. Interestingly, he had a license in California at the time to manufacture
automatic weapons, which is not like, I don't think, talking to people who also have that
license that we've talked to, not an easy thing to get necessarily in California, even at that time.
So, he's like a, on paper- I need a criminal record.
On paper, he's an arms dealer. That's his sort of like baseline, right? But yeah, he'd also-
But he never, but he also like didn't really sell, it was called the G77. Like,
we can never really find records of him actually successfully selling the G77. Maybe he did, but-
Are there pictures of this G77 online? Yeah. We have them in the show.
Oh, they are? Okay. You see some pictures from a, I mean, it would take you a while to,
like, I can't even read the time code. It would be a gun, right? Yeah, it's a gun.
Yeah, I don't think you'll- a Google Mac-10, it looks like a Mac-10. Oh, I don't think it's not
like a pop, you know- Was it that thing with the silencer on it? Yeah, there's black and white.
It's similar to that. We talked to an arms dealer and we were like, have you heard of the G77?
And he's like, send me a picture. He's like, ah, there's a lot of people trying to make these,
like, Mac-10 ripoffs. Like, that was a big popular thing at the time. They always jam,
like, you know, can't count on these things. Right. But Bob was- Robert with Nichols was
ostensibly selling those out of Cabazon. It was- They did a weapons test. It was under his
license that they were able to really actually do the weapons test that we show in the thing.
But he met- He met Michael and- Rekonoshiro.
Michael Rekonoshiro and John Phillip Nichols. Michael Rekonoshiro, we should mention, is like,
I don't think we ever set this up. He's Danny's source that says, I mean, I'm the one who put
the back door into the Promise software, the Danny's original story about Promise.
And I did it out at Cabazon. Sorry for anyone watching this. Oh, my God.
People wow us are so fucking lost by now. I read it. I met someone at a party recently who had
listened to a podcast that we did. We did a two-part on this podcast called Truinon.
And she's a fan of the show. And she was like, I listened to it. I had no idea what you guys
were talking about. Then I watched the show. I loved it. And, you know, in hindsight, the podcast
made more sense. But so Robert Nichols meets Mike Rekonoshiro out at Cabazon.
And then Danny started talking to Robert with Nichols later on. You know, this is,
it's two different timelines. The Cabazon stuff is happening in the early 80s. Danny's talking
to these people in the early 90s, right? About what they've been up to for the last 10 years.
And what Bob Nichols has been up for the last 10 years since Cabazon is like
real hard to pin down and very strange. Really? When did he die? He said he's
sitting banking in Switzerland. He had dodged the draft and ended up in Honolulu. Honolulu.
He like got under the mentorship of this guy named Harold Akimoto, who was involved in gambling.
According to an FBI document that we have was connected to the Yakuza Japanese organized crime.
Not sure. His son said, certainly not. But, you know, who knows.
You never want to admit your dad's in the Yakuza. Yeah.
And I haven't seen Harold's back tats. I'm not sure. Oh, yeah. The Yakuza are all super tatted up.
Yeah. So who knows? He at this mentor of Robert Nichols at least was like family.
That seems to be his like entrance into Robert Nichols grew up. His dad was a very sort of,
I think like a doctor to the stars. I mean, he's a very, very prestigious Hollywood doctor.
They grew up in the Hollywood Hills. He has, you know, three siblings and the parents were kind
of like socialites and the kids had porches when they were in teenagers and they kind of like,
yeah, and like kind of unsupervised. And how did he get into this arms business?
Through his, through, I think through his kind of intelligence at, you know,
there's also a claim was that essentially that in Hawaii, when he went there to dodge the draft,
and then he got, he got caught for dodging the Vietnam draft and that the judge in his case,
this is the story, right? That's the story. And that's his story. I mean, it's hard to say because
it's like, where's this stuff coming from? And it's like, if Bob is saying it, I don't know if
you can believe it, but is that the judge in that case introduced him to someone in the CIA who said
like, look kid, you could do some, you could do some work for us, like, or intelligence at least.
I don't know if he had said specifically CIA, but it was like, it started off small with like
little errands, like I want you to just go up to this person and find out this piece of information
from them at the, at a bar, at this restaurant, at the hotel, you know, and that it grew from there.
And he's not, he doesn't have the badge. He can't, he doesn't have the lanyard. He can't go into Langley
or, you know what I'm saying? He's not a staffer. He's like an agent. That's the idea. Like a freelance,
like covert operative. That's his sort of story. We do know that he was at that time involved in
some kind of organized crime. And I think, but he's also in business with this guy, Bob Mayhew,
who is both a critical liaison between U.S. intelligence and, and organized crime,
specifically in their attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro, you know,
sending the mob, using the mob in Cuba to, you know, and this guy, Bob Mayhew, was kind of like
coordinating with organized crime in those efforts in Havana. And he was in business with-
E. Howard Hunt was a big part of that too, right?
Yeah.
E. Howard Hunt was the guy who was in charge of that anti-Castro hit team or those paramilitary guys.
If you, what was interesting to me, if you read The Last Mafioso, which is a biography of,
of just this kind of mafia hit man, he makes the point, which I think is, you know, who knows
if it's true or not, but it's interesting idea is like that the mob guy who was kind of in,
who was tasked with by Bob Mayhew with assassinating, coordinating the, the plan to assassinate Castro
was actually just ripping off the CIA. And he was just hustling that, like that he,
that they'd never even bothered to hire anybody in Cuba. He would just come back to the CIA and
like any mafia scheme, he was, he was a, he was a scam artist, right? That's what essentially
like most of the mob operations, the scam, scams. Right. So he was scamming the CIA and they
can't, you know, they obviously don't have the agents to be able to disprove whatever he's coming
back with. So he's like, oh, another boat was, was knocked out and like, we got to get more money
because the operation failed. And he's just sitting there in like Vegas or whatever and not doing
anything, you know, and just taking the money, which is, that's a whole other layer of what is
really going on with the CIA, Bob Mayhew, who was a former FBI agent and the mob. It's like,
that reminds me of a totally unrelated story. I got to get it on Waxo.
So I met this dude in Kentucky and his, his grandfather gave him a deathbed confession.
He had been in the Navy and so this is what this dude's deathbed confession was. Amelia
Earhart, I'm hearing a plane, so it's cool. Amelia Earhart's plane went down and the U.S.
Navy did this and the immediate aftermath did this big search to try to find her.
But what this guy told his grandson was that they weren't looking for her at all. They didn't
even try. They were using it, that as an excuse to do whatever, intelligence, spying, naval ops,
you know. Where did her, where did, where did they think that her plane went down?
In the Pacific? I don't, I know nothing about it. Right, me neither.
Anyways, it's just like somebody that listens to this show, who's investigating the Amelia
Earhart case. That's interesting. Yeah. Because that's a common thing, right? I mean,
the Gladio operation was sort of similar, right? Wasn't it like they, they had like a cover story?
I don't know. Yeah, anyway, what was Gladio again? That's where we get the thing that we often,
the Christian would often get with FOIA requests, right? Which is we can neither confirm nor do
not. No, no, no, that's not Gladio. That's not Glomar. Sorry, sorry. I was seeing Glomar. I'm so
sorry. The Glomar Explorer. Gladio is, Gladio is the European relationship with the intelligence
relationship with the organized crime during and after World War II. Yeah. Sorry. I'm so sorry.
Okay. Yeah, yeah. Glomar was the Glomar disclosure. People are going to be like, that guy has no
idea what he's talking about. The Glomar is where we get the, we can neither confirm nor deny,
which has a Bob Mayhew connection because it was Howard Hughes who, Bob Mayhew, the FBI guy,
was Howard Hughes' right-hand man. Howard Hughes was the person that was tasked with
building a summer, a Soviet. Howard Hughes is something that I, that, that's a whole thing.
Danny Sheehan introduced me to the connection with Howard Hughes and Reagan. I think before
Reagan was president and how Howard Hughes was, was really one of the key players in setting up the
assassination teams to take out Castro. Oh, right. Well, that one Mayhew is, is his right-hand man
who I think was actually the one doing it. Okay. Got it. Bob Mayhew. Hold on a second. Steve,
is your mic on? Checkity, checkity. Oh, it's muted. It's sort of muted. I think I can hear,
I can hear breathing. I think, I don't know if it's your mic or... Might be one of our... No,
I don't think it was your mic because your mic's not that loud. I don't know what that was. Maybe
it's the CIA agent in the other room. Oh, yeah, it's you through your nose. Okay. You're a loud
nose breather. That's better than being a mouth breather. Partial. A Soviet submarine had, had
sunk in the Pacific, you know, off, well off the coast, you know, of California. And the US
government knows that it's there. The, the Soviets don't know that the US government
knows that it's there. And the US government, but also it's like kind of like, well, you know,
it's sank and it's at the bottom of the ocean. So it's impossible to extract it and bring it back.
It's like so far, it's so far underwater. There's nukes on it, right? There's nukes on it. There's
secrets on it. There's encryption on it. Like there's like everything you want is on this sub.
So the CIA enlists Howard Hughes to build this massive ship that has a, basically a bay that
opens underwater and this like, and it's called the Glomar, right? It's called the Glomar Explorer.
Oh, can you pull this up? Glomar. And a claw machine claw, basically, that can go down and grab the
submarine and bring it all the way back up and bring it into the, into the ship.
Okay. Go to that one down there, the bottom left, the colored one.
Oh, there you go. Is that like a Glomar Explorer?
And so, you know, it's this huge ship. It's this massively expensive project. So eventually, you
know, Jack Anderson, whatever reporters are like asking the CIA. So we heard that you guys are
building this giant ship to pull as nukes. And they basically, we would say we can neither confirm
nor deny the existence of the existence of this giant ship or this operation or whatever.
So that's where that's where that's called the Glomar disclosure. When they tell you,
when they tell you on out, when, when you get FOIA requests that they don't want to fulfill,
but they don't want to lie and say like, you know, we, we, we don't have it, but like years later,
it's going to turn out they did have it. It's language. We can neither conform nor nor deny
the existence of XYZ, these records, whatever. Right. And so we got that Christian got that a
fair amount, um, especially when you start talking about people like Philip Arthur Thompson or,
you know, I don't think we ever even finished like who Bob Nichols is, but
So Bob Nichols, yeah, I think Robert Booth Nichols, or I'm sorry, Robert Booth Nichols,
the reason we got on to his story, I wanted you guys to basically explain who he was because
there was a, we were talking about strategic deception in the Kennedy video.
All right. That is why you're good at this job. You can meander and get us back. That
is a real skill. I got to take that ship and pull you back out.
We're in good hands here. So, so Bob is, uh, somebody who had been in business with Michael
after Cabezon, you know, met him at Cabezon, Michael, his business partner, Paul Marasco was,
was viciously murdered. Um, and he attributes that murder to John Philip Nichols, his old guy,
and he goes with, it sucks because there's so many Nichols in this story, right? Robert Booth
Nichols, John Philip Nichols, Robert Booth Nichols is a completely different person who was
also at Cabezon when John Philip Nichols, the guy who we've been talking about with the cigarette
business, gambling business, uh, they're not related. They're not related. But so Robert
Booth Nichols essentially, I think basically told Mike, like, you got to get out of Cabezon
because you're going to get, you're going to be next. Like your business partner was assassinated,
come with me and we'll get into business together. And so they start, um, a company,
basically, Meridian, that was them and some other people. Yeah. And, um, and they get up some stuff,
they have a falling out while in Australia or something. Yeah. And, and, and they, they, by the
time Danny comes on the scene in 1990, 1990, 1991, Michael Rickon is shooting on Bob Nichols,
hate each other. And, um, when Mike, you know, Mike goes to jail, we can, while Danny's working
on this thing, he says it's retaliation for him coming forward about this whole story.
And he's basically talking to, he's talking to Danny, Bob's talking to Danny. They, they're using
Danny as like a go-between. Yeah. That's Bob on the right there. They're using Danny as a go-between
to find out kind of what the other person's revealing about the other person. And, uh,
and Bob is, it just has this like, like we said, just like this seeming, seeming connection to the
Intel world to organize crime, to, um, the secrets of the universe of how the intelligence world,
he seems to be a like kind of like low to middle level operative who can show Danny.
He's like, I look at him as like, he's like his Virgil going into the
ninth circle of hell, you know, taking, taking Dante and showing him around. Right. Um, and so
the, uh, the story that he tells us is sort of his own personal experience. But, but he's a, um,
uh, three months after Danny died, this woman, it sounds so confusing, this woman,
Sherri Seymer, who we interviewed and everything who wrote, who wrote a book sort of about parts
of our story. She, she picked up on Danny's trail because she was on the West coast. She was interested
in sort of drug operations that were related to the federal government. And she gets a call,
I think on like New Year's Day or New Year's Eve from Robert Booth Nichols. And he's like,
they, they eventually arrange a meeting and she goes over to his house and he said it might have
been a safe house. He had a couple of places in, in, in the LA area. He had a place in Marina del
Rey, his like apartment. And then he had another apartment-ish condo-ish thing in Sherman Oaks.
Sherman Oaks. Okay. And, uh, so she goes over there. Ellen, his wife is there. He also had a
place in Italy. He had a place in Honolulu. He had a place in- Balling. Balling for a guy who has,
who has never paid taxes and has no discernible means of income. Who flies first class everywhere,
stays in the four seasons when he's not going to one of his like villas. Like pretty cool little
life he's got going on for himself, tax-free. Um, so she goes over there. She's asking, you know,
what happened to the, that guy, Danny, who died just a few months ago that you were talking to,
you know, and he's super cagey about it. And he says, says all kinds of stuff about like, well,
like nobody who, who- No journalist has done enough work. Yeah. Nobody, no journalist has done enough
research to know the answer to that story, answer that question. But he shows her towards the end
of their conversation, he shows her a tape. He puts on this tape and it's of a version of the
Zapruder film that she's never seen before that, you know, nobody has seen before, quote, unquote,
that is the, what he calls the real Zapruder film. And it's, it, she tells the story of the movie.
It shows the driver turning around and shooting JFK in the head. And, and then she's looking at
this and she's just like, what is going on here? Like, I, is this real? What is happening? Right.
And then he's like, yeah, it's, it's the real one. Let me show you the tape that you've seen
in the media. And this is the time, you know, 1982, there's no YouTube. It's hard to access these
videos. I mean, the Zapruder film itself wasn't even shown on television for more than a decade,
I think, after it was taken. It was shown on the Geraldo show, actually. We beat our heads
against the wall trying to find a decent resolution. It's still hard to find. It's crazy.
It's really hard to find a high res Zapruder film, like a nice film scan. It's, it's for the most
famous piece of film ever created. Why is that? It must have to do with, I mean, the ownership
is now with the sixth floor museum. And they have like a version that's online, but maybe
they just have never bothered to like nicely digitize it and do like a nice high res thing.
You can see it on their website, but it's pretty low res. And so, so, so he plays her the quote
unquote real version. Right. And he's like, pause it midway through. I mean, we tell the story
in the thing, but yeah, I'll try to be quick. He paused it midway through. And he's like, look
at this tree, this tree that you're looking at there. There's, there's, and she says like half
of the trunk is, or half of the tree's gone. He's like, that's, that's the one you're seeing in
the media. It's the one that's been altered. The one I'm showing you with the guy shooting,
with the driver shooting him. That's the real one. You've been fed this doctor tape.
And he says that it's like his contention is that the, what he's telling her is that the,
the original role of film had been spliced. And that very quick turn around and shoot
was cut out excised from it. That's his contention.
And so, which is why he claims half of the tree was missing in the doctoring process.
That it wasn't like well done. Yeah. Right. Yeah. When they, when they resupply sit together.
So, which doesn't even actually make sense. Right. Because if you watch the, the, the
Pruder film online right now, the whole tree is there. Right. That's not how film works.
Right. Right. If you're just cutting out frames. Right. Exactly. Right. But if you're for painting,
you know, you can imagine there's some sort of like superposition going on or whatever. Yeah,
they could, they had some sort of CGI back then. Well, they did it with the moonlighting.
Yeah, exactly. I'm joking. So, the story, the takeaway that Sherry has, which I think is
important moral of the story. Because some people, I think, see this scene and they're just like,
damn, these guys have the real Pruder film. Like, it's like, it's like that is not our contention
in any way whatsoever. It is to give you this feeling and make you want to go online and watch
the original one and be like, what the fuck is going on here? Are we allowed to curse on this one?
Yeah. YouTube. Right. YouTube. Okay. Spotify or whatever. So, what the hell is going on here and
put your brain into this world where you just don't, that was the hope was in editing that
scene together in the way that Sherry tells the story is to give you this sort of unsettling
feeling that you do not know what reality is, that you've lost touch with, with the truth.
And that like the grill mask that you were talking about in the play. Right. Like Sherry says,
she'll report on this meeting she had with Robert Booth-Nickels and say, at the end,
I saw the reals of Pruder film. You guys won't believe it. Right. And she looks like a nitty whack
job. Yeah. And she's done. She's journalistically toast. Yeah. I think it could have been the same
thing. I don't know if you're familiar with the Bob Lazar story, but he's the guy who was contracted
to go out to Area 51 or S4 and back engineer and finds officers. Do you know that story very well?
Yeah. There's like a part of it where one of the things that were really kind of profound that
he brought to light in the 80s was this like hand scanner. Yes. Okay. That, I knew about that hand
scanner because that was in, that was Wacken Hut manufactured that. What? Yeah. And so in their
annual reports that I found their annual, Danny Kessler had these like full color Wacken Hut annual
reports that I got from Danny's archives. And there you have these like, you know, kind of like,
you know, very annual report, well lit, you know, photographs of like women putting their hands on
this like, at the time, very advanced technology. A bone density scanner in the fingers. Yeah. Can
you pull that up? There's photos of it online, Steve. Just type in. Really, we have good versions
of it, you know. Area 51 hand scanners from this, from this annual report. They also used that same
scanner in close encounters of the third kind or fourth kind. Yeah. Anyways, Bob Lazar. So yeah,
anyways, so in his story, he, that's it right there on the top left, right? Yeah. That's it. Yeah.
So Wacken Hut made that. Yeah. Or at least like bought the company that made it. Yeah. They're
marketing it. Yeah. So, so allegedly in his story, he claims he was never worked. Apparently total
crap. Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, that's even better. Yeah. Yeah. So allegedly in his, in his story,
he was contracted to go out to S four and try to do back engineering on these flying saucers or
whatever. And he claims when he was like leaving the first day he went out there to look at this
stuff, they purposely walked him by a window that was open where he looked in the window and he saw
a little alien being with like guys standing over it. So my interpretation of that is that was the
same thing that was going on with that is a pruder film. Yeah. My smart. Yeah. Bob Lazar. Okay.
Robert Booth, I've never contacted Bob Lazar, but Robert Booth Nichols claims to be friends with
Bob Lazar. Oh, really? Yeah. And then my fate after the David Grush congressional hearings last summer,
I revisited Bob Lazar because those hearings were so Lazar, Lazarian, Lazar asked. Lazarian,
that's a good word. And so I, you know, just kind of quickly revisited what Bob Lazar's claims are.
And the thing, the one that I think is so cool is that he said there were like five or six different
crafts that he was working on, but the one he said he was working on was found in an archeological dig.
And I was just like, wow, that's, I mean, who knows, but that's just like a beautiful thought that like,
you know, you know, this spacecraft is found in an archeological dig. I just love, I love the like,
the drama of that, the like, yeah, what that does to my imagination.
Yeah, it's interesting too. What does it say about time travel?
Right. Yeah. A lot of people think that the technology of the, the saucer technology never
changes. Is that because it's the pinnacle of technology or because they are jumping around our,
our timeline? The saucer technology never changes. They always look like saucers,
like pictures of them and, you know, saucer pictures from the federal government, the images
of like, here's what the flying saucers look like so that they won't pay attention to the drone and
stealth, like weapons programs that are going on. My theory, crazy theory, sorry, bring that up.
My theory is that all of that, all of that stuff in the drones and the tic-tacs that all the military
pilots are filming is just to keep our attention off of, you know, spending $5 million on these
Columbia-class nuclear submarines that we're building and all this other crazy shit that we're
building. We sure do like spending money on expensive military toys in this country, don't we?
Yeah, that, that something that has not ended since World War II, that's for sure.
But on this like topic of conspiracy stuff, Zach and I haven't, we've really only studied this
like case. Right. You know, I, I can't speak for, with authority on pretty much anything
outside of these specific cases, which they're, they are numerous and kind of interlocking and
sprawling, but from like 1980 to like 1995, I'm like, I don't know.
That's okay. I can't speak with authority on literally anything either, so.
That's why you asked the question. That's right. So
one of the main characters in the show that we haven't really talked about yet, who's a recurring,
he's one of them, I would say, the main figures in the whole story and
and really important is Michael Raconichudo. Can you explain who is Michael Raconichudo
and give me like a little backstory into like how you discovered him in the first place
and what your relationship with isn't with him is now?
Yeah. And that also like, I can tag onto that, like how Robert Booth-Nichols enters the picture
as well for Danny and for Bill Hamilton. So Michael Raconichudo is a child prodigy,
child science prodigy from the Pacific Northwest, who when he was 16, when he was very young,
he rewired his neighborhood's telephone system and undercut mobile phone system and kind of like
everyone in his neighborhood didn't have to pay their phone bill for a while because he had kind
of like rejiggered. There's an article about that in the Tacoma News Tribune. He had won
Science Fairs and then he went down to Stanford when he was 16 to work on lasers with the soon
to be Nobel Laureate for lasers, this guy, Dr. Arthur Shallaw. And then he studied, he went to
this all-boys school called the Woodside Priory in the Portola Valley, which is one of the most
wealthy and prestigious areas in the whole United States. And it's also very close to
La Honda, where Kinkisi's fun and games were happening concurrently with the Hell's Angels and
LSD and The Grateful Dead. And so then Michael graduates from high school. He says that like
they would hitchhike over to La Honda, but I don't know if Kinkisi would film a lot of stuff.
Maybe he would be cool to find Michael as a teenage Michael like with the Hell's Angels
at his crazy parties in La Honda. But anyways, Michael, we do know that Michael ends up in
San Francisco in the 60s during the hippie movement, the Haydash Ray movement.
Interesting. And he's connected to this theater, this avant-garde theater and dance venue called
the Straight Theater, which is right on Haydnashbury. Sorry to interrupt, but did Tom O'Neill ever come
across him in his research? Yes. Yeah. Really? Yeah. We found out about Tom O'Neill's book
when we were sort of in the early stages-ish of kind of interviewing people for the movie.
And we contacted him through circuitous means. We're super fans of Tom O'Neill,
and Zach's girlfriend made T-shirts. Like bootleg shirts. Which had his cover,
the cover of his first edition of Chaos on it. Would he send you a cease and desist? That's
how you met him? No. And then on the back it had his dust jacket portrait. And then my girlfriend
at the time tagged. I was wearing the shirt and she took a photo of me and posted it on
Instagram and tagged Tom. And he wrote to her like, what is going on here? Where did you get
these shirts? He wasn't mad, but he was stoked. Yeah. And then he just thought that there were
these kids in New York that were obsessed with his book and he didn't know anything about us.
And so then when I was in Los Angeles later, I messaged him. I was like, I'm the guy with the
shirt. I'd like to give you one, which was actually my one. So now I don't have one anymore.
And so I gave him, I met him for lunch at this diner in Los Angeles. Oh, really?
And gave him the shirt. And then I told him what I was up to. And we ended up talking for three
hours. I mean, the time just flew by. We didn't even know how much time had passed. And then
the meter made was like trying to give me a ticket because like whatever it was,
you know, long since the meter had long since run out. And then Tom's like,
whoa, I can't be sitting here all day. I've got stuff to do. I've got to go. And I'm like,
I got to go too. But this is amazing. I was, you know, but so that's how we met first,
met Tom. But one of the reasons why that lunch was so compelling was because we had,
we knew the same people. Like we, the sort of farther reaches of our investigation connected
to the farther reaches of parts of his. Like he had, he had a file on Michael Ricanochudo in his
files. He had a file on Earl Bryan in his files. He actually called Earl Bryan before he died.
So it's really funny how it kind of reaches just like, just barely touches on the chaos world.
And I think touches on it ultimately, probably a lot. But yeah, more than touches. I mean,
it's very intertwined. But, but, but so yeah, in essence, like here's how I like to think about
Mike is like, I think of him, if you look at sort of the, the stuff he got busted for as like
the connection between the 60, a prism through which to see the transition from the 60s, late
60s LSD scene in San Francisco, hate Ashbury, the freak scene to the harder 70s and early 80s
amphetamines takeover, essentially. And potentially, if you want to go there, the relationship
between the federal government and those trucks, the mass importation of those trucks.
They hate Ashbury Clinic was doing studies on amphetamines and LSD simultaneously.
Which is interesting. So, Mike told me that he went to the free medical clinic, you know,
the hate Ashbury Medical Clinic and said they knew a lot of people there. Okay, so flash forward to
1990, Bill Hamilton is trying to figure out he's successfully won the founder of this company called
Insla that developed the Promise software, the starting place for Danny. We haven't even explained
what the promise software is. We're doing this like backwards, essentially. But that's fine.
You know, just want to put it out there just very concretely, like this is where Danny Kessler,
the journalist that Christian became so interested with dying in the bathtub in 1991,
he started his investigation looking into a piece of software called the Promise software,
which had been allegedly stolen by the Justice Department and used to do, nobody knew at the
time what happened to this piece of software that was developed for the DOJ and a court had ruled
that it had been stolen by the DOJ. And so, enter, and Bill Hamilton's in charge of that company,
enter Mike Ricanochuto. Right, well, basically, Bill Hamilton is trying to figure,
he tracks down Michael Ricanochuto as someone who knows what happened to his software. He knows
that the Justice Department stole it, but we can't, what he can't figure out is why. And he hopes that
Michael Ricanochuto can help flesh out that question of why. And basically, Mike, he gets a
hold of him through some former FBI agents and is able to track down, track him down and eventually
Michael calls Bill. And Bill also is a former NSA and he also had done contract work with the CIA.
Okay. Just to add a little more spice. That's nice. Some podcasters says that we didn't mention that.
We didn't mention that in the movie. We definitely mentioned it in the movie.
Anyways, so... That's neither here nor there.
Well, it's in the movie. So, basically, Michael has this two hour long phone call with Bill and he
says that the first thing he says is, he just describes what the Wagon Hut Corporation is.
He's like, it's this giant security company. And I was the director of research on the Cabazon
Wagon Hut joint venture in the Coachella Valley. And one of our projects was to modify the perloined
inslaw software promise and install a secret back door in it, which would then be sold through
front companies to intelligence agencies and police stations and corporations all around the world.
So that all of that data that would then be tracked by those institutions could be like
accessed and pulled into like a master global database that has no national restriction
by the US government. And then also by Israel because apparently there were two channels
happening. Anyways, Michael's... The other informants talk about the Israeli aspect. Michael's talking
about the American channel of this back door software. So, basically, they have this long
conversation and Bill then makes this memo, just so we can keep track of had this call with Michael
on this date, April 1990, and then it's probably like 13 page memo of all of these points that
Michael made in this call. And basically Bill on his own, he's a great researcher on his own,
right, just starts going through line by line trying to fact check these wild claims that this
guy on the other end of the phone somewhere in rural Washington has told him. And so he finds
this guy named Peter Zikowski through this journalist who wrote about the savings and loan
scandal who had used to be in business with John Philip Nichols. And he's like, oh, you know,
if you really want to know what was going on with Mike and all this stuff, you should talk
to this guy, Robert Booth Nichols. So that's how like then Robert Booth Nichols enters the picture
and he calls Bill one day out of the blue. So now Bill's talking to these two guys. And then
when Danny comes along a few months later, Bill gives Danny this like that's that a copy of that
memo that from Mike from that first call with Mike and then eventually like gives him
Robert Booth Nichols's phone number and like and then so Danny is like kind of off to the
races like dealing with these these two guys. And so one of the other claims that Michael makes is
that the way that the the promise software gets to the reservation is through the rigging of the
1980 presidential election, which was a critical player. And it was this guy, Earl Bryan, who was
an American businessman and physician and friend of Ronald Reagan. Earl Bryan was Earl Bryan was
Earl Bryan was a was a physician who had been in Reagan's cabinet when he was governor of
California when Reagan was governor of California, or Brian was this like kind of wonder kind young
neurosurgeon who it's just come fresh from a couple of years serving in Vietnam.
Love to know more about that. And and then lands in his cabinet as like the health and
whatever the California Health and Human Services like secretary as like a young young he was like
I think the youngest secretary in California at that time he was this just like brilliant guy
not from California though and then from the south and then after like he had he had started
founding like tech companies and and healthcare companies basically he was basically a part of
the company that was a competitor to Enzalaw right right he's he started a sort of umbrella of
companies was it all under Hadron Hadron was like a was like an infotech company infotech I think
infotechnology was like was like maybe the umbrella company and he and we don't even truly get into
all of his little things it's pretty interesting though he was he bought financial news network
financial news network UPI which was a which eventually became CNBC financial news network was
a was a cable a fledgling cable business news station UPI which was the major competitor to
the AP at the time United Press International it's like newswire service a newswire service that
was that was probably this either the biggest or second biggest at the time competing with AP
and still around kind of like all these news companies are kind of still around right and
and Hadron which was a competitor to Enzalaw and and Bill claimed that Hadron had tried to before
he really understood what was going on with the Department of Justice sabotaging his contract
they tried to buy him tried to buy him and then threatened like said something to the effect of
we have ways of making you sell the promise software and Bill Bill claims he's like what is
I didn't even like realize it at the time but looking back on it I'm realizing oh we have
ways of making you sell it means Earl Bryant's homies with Reagan and they're gonna they're
gonna they're gonna bankrupt they're gonna bankrupt us and steal the software um so Earl
Bryant is uh I just want to mention because we might just move on from him it's really what we
never talk about on the show but eventually he he goes to jail uh in the 90s after Danny died
he went to jail because he was doing stock manipulation with uh like financial crimes
with all these companies and he bankrupted I think I think he bankrupted right FNN eventually
FNN got the reason it's CNBC now is because he he was messing around with them and uh and and he
lost control of the company because it because he was went to jail uh for that and he went to jail for
that and the and the UPI stock fraud there's also an epic scene that would didn't make the the show
where you know Anne um Clank Danny's best friend works at CNBC as a she works at FNN
she's an executive producer works you know for this news station we yeah we didn't talk about
that because it was like yet another like whole thing we'd have to explain but like it was really
interesting that Anne and some people in this kind of like octopus conspiracy universe are like well
Anne Clank worked for Earl Bryant like what does she have to do with Danny's death yeah yeah yeah
and it's like dude he's the boss who sits out like you know it's like if you work for Facebook
I mean the equivalent is essentially maybe it's not this scale but it's like Facebook
you're like an engineer at Facebook and somebody's like well what did Mark Zuckerberg tell you
yesterday it's like dude I've never met Mark you know like you don't have a relationship
necessarily with like the boss boss boss guy but but you know Danny's looking into Earl Bryant um
in the you know summer uh I'm not sure whether it was the summer of 1990 it was probably if it was
like maybe late summer 1990 or or um 1991 and the company company picnic is going down
and and Danny's like and you got to invite me you got to invite me because Earl Bryant is going to be
there at this company picnic in like rural Virginia or something like that and they end up playing
volleyball against each other oh wow and um basically I mean Earl Bryant is way out of shape
he's a big and this guy really heavy set kind of seemingly out of shape guy but he plays a lot of
tennis and and he's got a mad volleyball game and he just schools Danny really in volleyball
huh the volleyball version of dunking on him wow and so she told us this great story I would you
know it'd be cool if it was in the movie but it's it's it doesn't really take us anywhere but it's
just it's just an amazing image of Danny thinking like I've got him I'm gonna get Earl Bryant like
I'm gonna get to the bottom and I'm gonna do it my entry is like playing volleyball against him
and he just gets like shamed you know by how badass Earl Bryant apparently is in volleyball
and Danny was no slut she was a golden gloves boxer like he's an athletic dude oh really yeah
yeah so Earl Bryant had founded all these um all these like tech companies basically and and I think
did had a lot of government contracts or whatever and he had sold computers and technology to
Iran and to the point where he had learned Farsi and that's sort of like what that's how Michael
ties him to brings him to the table you know how he's said to have you know been involved in these
negotiations to keep the U.S. hostages in Iran until after the election oh right right because
he's homies with Ronald Reagan this is the this is a Michael's story just he's homies with with
Earl Bryant is homies with Ronald Reagan and he's going to deliver 40 million dollars to the Ayatollah
to keep the hostages in Iran so that Reagan so that Reagan looks like Jimmy Carter can Jimmy
Carter looks weak Reagan looks like a badass and what ends up happening I mean this is why it ties
so neatly to the history lesson is that of course Ronald Reagan wins the election and the within
an hour 30 minutes whatever of his inauguration speech the hostages are on a plane going back
to America and it's like wow like Reagan won and he got the hostages back it definitely happened
he and also his his campaign manager is William Casey who's this oh shit OSS super spy mastermind
wily motherfucker wasn't he ahead of the CIA what for Reagan after he does this uh secret scroll
mission in Iran to get his uh the governor of california to become the president wow he's then
made the um but this just to be clear this is we were kind of like that's not necessarily even
Michael's story it's not Michael's story this is this is christians I don't think Michael really
went to Iran I don't he he needs the the onus is on Michael to come forward with some passport
photographs some doc some documentation that shows that he was he and Earl Bryant went to
Iran and helped to help do this deal but regardless of that I think it definitely did happen
the that the the hostages were kept until after the election intentionally to benefit the republicans
right if you look at what we ended up doing I mean we we did a lot more research on the
October surprise than ended up in the movie and we talked to you know several people who
had some relationship to it or had investigated it and then of course last year the New York
Times came out with this piece saying that you know somebody uh what's his name Peter Baker
the New York Times came with this piece saying somebody in Texas had admitted that he was that
he had been there for negotiations between that Texas congressman listening um and that the Iran
that the October surprise really did happen that way which is interesting because if you look at
the people who really went into the October surprise uh like investigation on the journalistic side
guys like Robert Perry um they didn't have that story they had other stories about William Casey's
shenanigans and what seems like to me might be the the true picture of what happened is that
William Casey like any smart spy had a bunch of things going on many different sort of wheels
within wheels and many different plans at foot and one of them worked out you know like maybe one
of them worked out or and and and if you have a lot of different things it also creates an echo
chamber where it's like wait how could that be happening at the same time this is happening and
how's you know it's like well maybe they're actually all happening you know just because
multiple things seem like they they are mutually exclusive doesn't mean that they are I guess as
my point at the time Iran was fighting a war with Iraq and what Iran needed were part you know parts
for planes you know they had a bunch of they had a bunch of planes that didn't have tires American
made planes yeah after the revolution in 1979 America stopped giving them bombs and guns and
you know okay so say the October surprise didn't happen but right around the time that those meetings
would have happened the guns started flowing to Iran and they didn't stop you know I think that
there's like the the Iran Contra like I think arbitra is like the limited hangout version of
Iran Contra is like they pick an arbitrary point in time for the that scandal to start
but it really started especially if the October surprise happened which I do believe it did
it started then that's when the relationship the relationship and the and the arms traffic
which it's a perfect mirror not an imperfect but a pretty close mirror to what happened with that
Iran Contra six years later which is that there was another hostage crisis and we were using weapons
to negotiate for hostages and it's like well how do we get that idea like maybe you know the easy
answer would be that we got that idea from ourselves when we did it if you're the Reagan
administration anyway William Casey just just to put a little little button on that he becomes the
CIA director he when called to testify in front of the Iran Contra hearings he the day he did day
before he's supposed to testify dies just so inconveniently for people who want to find out
the truth if he was going to tell the truth Bill Casey yeah and one other little octopus
tentacle to throw in there is that he was outside counsel before all this
to Wacken Hut he was a lawyer before that to Wacken Hut so it's like when you see
Wacken Hut is this is like this boogeyman right but it's like it has this funny name
but you really look into them and they was they was up to some bad bad stuff they also had didn't
they have the largest private rep repository of infirm of surveillance and other information on
American citizens yeah yeah they got that from the house of americans activities committee yeah
I think there's actually like 26 feet or something ridiculous of information on people
legally surveillance surveillance that's I believe sitting in the NYU library
because they got the Wacken Hut files from some like other they got those Wacken Hut files from
something um anyway they digitized them and put them on their promise yeah so yeah and they
really want to get and and Danny somehow got access to talking about yourself yeah myself back
in 1990 when I was three years old um he somehow got access to the the checks that were written
by the Kuwait royal family for like Adnan Khashoggi yeah I mean those had been around
we have like CBS nightly news reports that show those same checks and reports on them
the Khashoggi stuff you know a lot of the Iran Contra stuff that Danny was looking into
that happened in hearings a couple years earlier than that what was interesting was that he got
who was the guy from Oregon the reneke yeah he got he got those checks from reneke
okay and so what Danny was doing I think that's like well what was Danny doing that's so special
it's like what he was doing was looking at Iran Contra and then looking at the implosion of bank
of credit and commerce international the bank we talked about uh that was connected to Iran Contra
right which was the implosion that bank was happening in 1991 right when Danny's doing this
and he's looking at the savings and loan crisis he's looking at all these things and he's like oh
my gosh all these people in Wacken Hut they're all actually literally connected they all know
each other or are part of the same thing and maybe the savings and loan scandal is really you know
and it part of an intelligence operation or it's like popping up in that little place and it's
popping up here and it's popping up here and it's about essentially how money and power are moving
around the world through intelligence networks of these like kind of dudes and if you want to get
deep into it as like our editor Eric really got into is like it's where um
um their expulsion from the CIA after the after the various like church hearing church committee
hearings and things like that in the 70s you know Stansfield Turner comes into the CIA during
under Carter and he's like everybody's gotta go he like cleans out the cleans house 30% or some
some huge amount of the CIA gets kicked out because it's like you guys have been up to so much
right bad stuff like so much illegal stuff like we got a clean house here but now you have
all these spies they've got a particular set of skills you know and they don't adapt that well
to civilian life and they got contacts all over the world right and they've done things like
operation and I'll try to get it right this time gladio things like that where you're you know these
guys when you're working in the CIA what what is your in your operations what are you doing
you're generally going to other countries and committing crimes like espionage in those countries
is a crime and the way you're doing it is often sometimes at least working with criminals and
so Danny's idea Castellero is that these guys are all the are the intersection between like a bunch
of disaffected pissed-off spies who were kicked out of the administration under Carter and it fits
nicely because it's like well you do have William Casey who's an XOSS officer as Reagan's campaign
manager with George HW Bush as the vice presidential candidate who was the CIA director it's like
them coming in as under Reagan's cabinet under Reagan's administration and potentially engineering
the return of or the the ascendancy of Reagan over Carter is basically you could see it as
the world's biggest fuck you to Stansfield Turner and Jimmy Carter of being like oh you're kicking
us out well guess who's back baby and we're taking over you know like there's a way you can you can
actually see that that sort of thing where all these dudes and and Irene Contra kind of becomes a
an exponent of that I'm sorry if I'm just droning on here but Irene Contra becomes an exponent of
that because it's it's former intelligence military intelligence people who are working
with the current administration the Reagan administration they set up a private supply
network to do a private supply network it's it's it's if you want to see it in a related way it's
about the privatization of military intelligence you know and and whenever Reagan's like you know
saying things like you know the worst words the worst sentence in any of these languages I'm from
the government and I'm here to help it's like well that's that's a really convenient viewpoint
for somebody who's working with a lot of people who are about to make a shit ton of money off of
like military intelligence under your administration that's what Irene Contra was right that's what you
know all the stuff is so one thing that we haven't really explained that I'm kind of a little bit
fuzzy on is is what was so special about the promise software that made all these different
nations around the world want to buy it I and I understand the logic of selling it to all these
nations and creating a backdoor so that was created by Michael Rakanashita right allegedly
allegedly we always have to throw the a word in there I understand using that selling the
software to everybody and creating a backdoor so you could go in there and gather all the
information that they have but how did the promise software help them on the cabazon
reservation and specifically with the arms sales well that's problematic because
I mean we've got done a we did a lot of reporting about what
sort of the facilities I mean the weapons development facilities we have the blueprints
they never got built you know they did build a casino but the the the tank ammunition shell
plant that they wanted to build and the chemical and biological weapons manufacturing facilities
that they wanted to build they never got built because I probably because John Philip Nichols
hiring all these murders and Wagon had got spooked and pulled out it got it got too hot because
John Philip Nichols just couldn't help but kill people and speaking of got too hot I mean in
order to run those vax computers that that that the promise software ran on these DEC vax mini
computers there I don't think they could fit they could fit in this way they would take up a huge
portion of this room but you need like vacuum tube computers yeah they're like they play we show
them in the film they play like this they run on this magnetic tape it's after the real the real
real computer yeah yeah and and you basically you need to like kind of raise floors look at the
DEC vax DEC vax 1170 you know basically they were some dusty old there was a card room and there
were some trailers out on this reservation look at these you know look at this room where they're
running this look or type in 1170 11 slash 780 DEC vax 11780 after vax at the after vax or even
that even that's fine yeah 1170 it's suggested right there boom we actually found a working one
of these and well which was sick in our recreation we can't find any evidence that a these machines
were on the reservation or b that they could have even supported sales sales envelope right there
that one that says skip walter if like yeah it's down it just looks cool I like their sales
marketing stuff and even even bill like all he as he went through fact checking that stuff that
Michael had initially told him and you know talking to all these people and networking with all
these people initially he was able to like corroborate everything Mike said about the
kathazon wagon hot and all these murders and all this actually like much more incriminating
crazy but he couldn't get nailed down the promise story being out there which which
doesn't mean I mean we remain pretty open to it and also there's also other
sort of stories about other avenues through is real and all kinds of other things that that that
promise was hacked by those guys but the story about Michael specifically doing at a kathazon
we've never been able to like nail that one down it's Danny said many times throughout his notes
possession of a secret is no guarantee of its truth I think I think that's a really important
you know people tell you just because someone tells you in confidence or whatever tells you
the secret and this like thing it's doesn't mean it's true right right and and I think some people
might say well like well then what are you guys doing here like what's your documentary about
like if you don't think some of this stuff is true it's like well what we found was that that might
have been you know true or not there was this weapons like exploration thing going on out there
there was a series of unsolved homicides that I think Christian does a pretty good job of laying
out what actually happened and that they were for people working with intelligence agencies
and all the other stuff that that that Danny was on to turned out to be pretty right on about how
and a great story networks work and people like you know how people like Robert Knickles and Michael
were kind of screwed up the stuff that they were involved with that was true was equally if I would
say not more chilling and strange and bizarre than just like what was going on with promise at
Cabazon I think it's a really interesting open question of like well then what's the point of
Michael saying all this stuff about promise in Cabazon and why would he bother um and you know
we don't truly get into like the the why's and wherefores of that but I guess in answers to your
question like so there's a micro kind of pseudo promise thing but I think it is important to kind
of like lay out Bill's vision and maybe not even Michael's vision of why promise right what would
it what because he's not Michael's not the only one like Ari Bin Manashi another slightly slippery
character Israeli spy we mentioned him in the show he has a whole other take on on what's going on
with related but other take on what's going on with promise and Israeli intelligence and
and the sort of worldwide distribution of promise right and it's related it's essentially
that um promise here's like the kind of canonical story right promise was developed to organize
information uh files for the justice department that this is this is true right in there which is
right it's a database in an era when there's not that many similar programs right um you know
sort of early to mid computing when you're using giant two million dollar machines like the deck
Vax right but that's like early 80s um by the time this is happening promise is a pretty powerful
very powerful according to some it's definitely Bill Hamilton like 500 000 lines of code that can
that that what's special about it is uh it can organize all this information but it can sort the
information and it can like find patterns within information right so you're looking for if you're
in the criminal system you're looking for uh what like you're sorting the basics of like the the
judge on the case is the same and here's this defendant who's the same but then you can track
other cases and be like oh there's a pattern of crime here here's how here's how this this
criminal is actually involved with all these other crimes and here's the here's like the kind of
information network and promise is good at sorting that and they use it as early findings found that
10 percent of police police detectives in dc closed 100 percent or 90 90 percent of the cases
that were closed in in that so basically like 90 percent of the detectives didn't weren't able to
take their cases from arrest to conviction only 10 percent of the uh dc detectives were able to do
that and that was just that was unclear until they were able to have hard data it's called the
super cop study data mining so promise it outside of even our documentary we don't really get into
the details on this but it was a powerful research tool right in addition to its work for the justice
department i think charles work who we interviewed who was who was one of the kind of i don't know
godfathers of this project who brought bill into the justice department to do it um wanted to do
research so they could make the criminal you know ostensibly make the criminal justice system
more just or more effective effective and and and find out patterns in law enforcement
that would be better for victims for fine you know fine closing cases and things like that
and so they had these pretty cool big papers that were written from research done on these
massive databases of promise information so then it's like okay well then how does that come
how do you get to go from that to a global surveillance network right well the idea at least
is according to people like airy or micro kind of shuteau and other people is well it's just a
you know it's just a matter of what information you're throwing in there so if you're throwing in
as a as a comparison say instead of lot legal cases you're throwing in the phone bills and the
water bills and the utility bills of people in um palestine you could sort those names or you know
or jordan or whatever it was you could sort those names and find out oh this person has like a spike
in their water bill for like the last two weeks maybe that means that more people are staying
there maybe that means there's unreported people staying in there there's some sort of like operation
going on in in like an insurgent you know in their minds like insurgent uh essentially military
campaign right right that's happening within the population so um you can find patterns
just depends on what you're looking for and those can be very you know valuable um the sort of
of next layer is then so say you you are israel and you sell that to to jordan and you're finding out
you're seeing that you're then tapping into jordan's information they're tracking this
information and then you're pulling that information out and you're sorting it against what's going on
in right syria palestine egypt whatever and you're seeing even bigger picture keeping tabs on what's
going on so ari's point that he says in interviews that we have is that this was like more than
massads by well he was idf uh idf okay but but uh israeli intelligence okay operative that they
just i mean man we should tell his story it's like there's so many amazing sort of like things that
we we didn't even get into like he was he was separately one of the reasons that we know about
iran contra he leaked he leaked um the the first article about iran contra was an article that
was based on information that he leaked um so it's like a lebanese news magazine i think right
so um so you know years later he was arrested in 1990 or 89 or something like that for selling like
c-130 c-130s that were illegally being sold and he gets arrested and and tried in manhattan he gets
a public defender israeli the israel uh disavows him says that he has nothing to do with the idea
for Israeli intelligence and then he had and then he gets a bunch of letterhead and stuff that shows
oh yeah he is working for israeli intelligence they're like oh well he's just a low level translator
then he gets his passport and it's like as thick as the bible full of like
travel to north korea travel to like peru to like visit the shining path you know it's like
low level translator who's going to 90 countries in this thing um and so he actually argued his
way out with a public defender argued his way out of federal charges got off uh not guilty uh for
illegal uh arms ship aren't illegally shipping these these c-130s and he's so annoyed he starts
telling anyone who'll listen everything he knows about everything he knows right is his story and
so so his point is that promise software was this like better than cheaper and better than
satellites for gathering information on whatever israeli intelligence wanted to know about in the
early 80 early to mid 80s and the story of how it got to israel um from basically ins law or the
doj was that this um this guy dr ben or who is an emissary from the ministry of justice in israel
comes to um this is bill hamilton's perspective this is bill hamilton's story the the president
of ins law i'm just throwing that out there comes to ins law and uh basically once like a show and
tell i hear you got this new doj supporting so you know prosecution software like let's maybe we
want it over in israel this is in the early 80s this is before all the problems all the lawsuits
and all that stuff dr ben or he comes to kick the tires on on ins law and promise and basically
they you know spend whatever the day together and the guy uh the guy leaves he leaves and bill
never hears from him again at the ministry of justice and then through the course of i think
there's lawsuits against the department of justice i believe somehow they get a document
that shows that the justice department did actually give dr ben or a copy of promise
that he took back with him to israel but then somehow bill figures out that dr ben or eliot
richeson the former department the former attorney general who's now bill's lawyer fighting against
the department of justice does this like photographic lineup or something when he's like
showing people in ins law like pictures of people you might know and and one of them is a picture
that bill's like i know that guy that's dr benjamin or he came and looked at our software years ago
and eliot richeson is like that's not dr benjamin or that's a guy named raffi etan
who's a legendary israeli massage spy who was part of the operation to was in charge of the
operation to get eichmann out of argentina when they like brought him back for trial the nazi
back for trial like he's a he was called raffi the stinker in in israeli uh intelligence because
he had been a uh some operation early on that he had done he had like go through the sewers
or something and he got this moniker i think he was like a little dude who according to
the people who knew him was just a hard nose right wing like tough as nails you know we got
his number from one of our friends in israel and like you know we were a little bit we basically
wanted to like really but not our knowledge supposedly late like years later supposedly
raffi etan claimed that the seizure and implementation of this basically this israeli
promise software operation um spy you know his signals intelligence operation was like the greatest
achievement that of israeli intelligence during his tenure you know he told this to a journalist
named gordon thomas who has a lot of you know just basic factual factual inaccuracies in in his
book so it makes me like wonder like what we're what's really going on because it's not vet it's
like you know he says danie geisler died in 1990 it's just sloppy you know just as just as you're
kind of skimming through you're just like that's wrong that's wrong right so you start to doubt
like it's like so did is it true that raffi etan took you aside and like said like don't turn
turn the cameras off and like let's let me tell you right my greatest achievement which
happened it's like the only time that raffi tells this to any journalist like is is my theft of
the promise software it's like what is he even going what is true what is not and that's part
of the reason i think another one's just we're condensing so much that's part of the reason
none of that's the raffi etan story did not end up in our documentary because it was just
became too much of like wait what is real what is not like we have no way of verifying this but we
did and we got his cell number from our friend in israel and then we we we took like too long too
long we we didn't call him and then he died like two months after we got his cell number felt so
stupid we just didn't expect him to die you know right then yeah now why now how did this
does this all connect to um you're getting that look on your face that i recognize a lot from
dinner parties before we would turn the before we made this movie we want to be like
the hour six of telling this story and people like all right wait so it's like people are still
interested but they're just like wait what's going on so but i want to know how it got
implemented in these nuclear submarines well that's the the sort of like norma dg is sent
a story right and sigh her and see more her yeah okay i mean it's all through bill hampton
essentially yeah it's telling these these stories because there was the there was the lady in the
documentary that you guys you asked in front of her door there's like a i can tell the longer
version of the story but i basically like one of my closest friends was dating sigh her so legendary
investigative reporter was dating his son and they were living at his apartment in new york
wow and so i was like dude you gotta give me sighs email you gotta give it to me and so um
she did and i basically started trying to verify if like the story that bill told me was true and
he was i mean he was an interesting person to commute sigh was an interesting person to
communicate with and his point his ultimate point was i never ended up writing about it's law
so i only talk about stuff that i printed you know i don't talk about stuff that i did
speculate to i don't you know because that way it's like that if it makes it into the new yorker
the new york times it's it's real it's fact-checked it's real he'll talk about it right he doesn't
he just as a policy doesn't talk about even though he pitched it to according to bill he
pitched it to the new yorker vanity fair and the atlantic um and the washington post right um no i
don't know i don't think those are the three the the washington post story is different that's a
bob woodward story um but anyways i was trying to get him to confirm anything about the insula case
and he basically said the threshold is too high uh you know on insula on this story i was like what
does that mean yeah what does that mean what does that mean um and i never i don't know what what he
meant by that i mean i you one speculates that the idea is like it's such a classified and an
intensely guarded secret that like you can't open that box that's inside of the intelligence
community and find out the answers cleanly so but circling back a little bit um one of insula's
clients was this um this insurance company called etna life and casualty right and uh because they
had just really quickly they had stopped selling to the federal government after the federal government
built them out of seven million dollars worth of worth of contract it was going to be the largest
contract in the department of justice history um eventually when it was like a several hundred
million dollar contract um that it was supposed to grow into and so they started selling to private
companies i just wanted to throw out there yeah it's like they they they continued on even though
the doj had kind of like screwed them out of all this money and so like by the 90s or late 80s
they're working with etna and this woman and you know there they have this like promise users group
where different clients could kind of all convene together for like kind of like a breakout session
where they talk about you know whatever maybe bugs or new software updates or i you know i'm not
sure exactly what they would talk about the promise users group meetings but i could only imagine
probably software um and you know afterward they had kind of like built this relationship with
norma because she was kind of like really good at explaining how to use the software to new clients
and they i think they would kind of like pull her aside and like help because from like the
perspective of like a i don't know a lay person she could kind of like really help people learn
how to engage with this tech and um they liked each other um and she asked after one of these
you users group meetings you know what's what's going on with with your case and bill had recently
met um michael rickhanichuto and um he's like i don't know i mean i met this guy he said that
this software my our software was is is all over the world now with a secret back door
in it it's part of this massive spy operation and and the cia is involved in the you know the
department of defense and the nsa and she's like hmm well i could probably help you with the with
the cia aspect this is a story that bill told me in 2013 and and he said um and so then it's like
bill's like oh you can you can help me with the cia part she's like and i need to reiterate this is
the story that bill told me in 2013 she said according to bill that her husband was uh
clan dust and services operative for the cia for many years so she basically could run it up the
chain with him and see mm-hmm all right um bill allowed me to take this conversation um have it on
so you know i wanted to find and so then basically the story is that she calls bill and she's like
i got this i got this the finally i've got the information what i don't have are documents to
prove it but what i do have is the story basically like obviously paraphrasing but i don't want to
talk about this over the phone come to our office in mclean virginia and like we'll get into it and
i'll explain mclean just obviously just fun little the facts also where the cia is located it's just
such a like the whole story is in this like cia that's so norther virginia intelligence universe
where danie lives danie was born in mclean danie kessler was born in mclean virginia just his neighbor
was um jit uh hasis engelton john hasis engelton danie's neighbor yeah yeah oh my god dude like as
a child you know like you'd see him like mow in the grass or whatever i mean i don't know that detail
specifically all i know is that so she says okay the you know it has this whole story about um james
engelton that's just amazing his son lives right on the street from here or his grandson maybe what
john james danie oh my god he's and you kind of look like him like who danie i thought you were
the one that looked like danie i guess we both kind of look like him um anyways so um right i don't
know i'm kind of i'm kind of swimming in this story because like there's so many different
offshoots but basically it's usually a day on in the life of production of us trying to tell
the story is just like interconnected story interconnected story she says that the software
is on these nuclear subs that the joint chiefs of staff like are the only people that have you
know access to the information it's on you know it's on nuclear subs it's all i think the idea
just to like kind of why would it be on nuclear subs i think the idea and i know i it was to like
it was so it's this data tracking and analytics data mining type software right and so if it was
taking soviet sonar and like pings and it was able to like somehow uh triangulate where underwater
you know subs are that's the theory that's that's sort of the theory i have an anecdote that i love
about submarines i was uh you know this is like our eighth i'm sorry i'm sorry submarines are fun
to talk i was um photographing this like actually it was a mob wedding in long island and uh i you
know funded my early years of research on this by working as a photographer usually for the
new york times but i would do the occasional wedding that's like embarrassed i am to say to
admit that i've been there i think we've all been involved in there so um basically i meet this
this guy at the wedding we're like standing to the side we're talking and and he's like i was like
so well you know what do you do and he's like well i'm in the navy for this guy and i was like well
what do you do in the navy and he's like well i'm a submarine commander and i was like oh cool
so what are you guys what are you guys doing down there like what's going on down there and he's
like you know very disdainful like looks at me and he's like dude if i could just tell you at a
wedding what i do i wouldn't have to do it underwater you're right about that oh my god that's so
fucking funny man and it's so true um the this yeah so they're using promise and playing with
the vax computers i guess but no i don't know the submarine shit is is wild especially if you think
about like nuclear war and deterrence and like where all the submarines go and annie's new book
nuclear war she has some this disc the declassified uh submarine highway lanes well in her book that you
can see i could you can't find it anywhere online but it shows you the basically the submarine
highways for china and russia and they literally come within like a hundred miles of the east
coast of the us like right off the coast of florida and the carolina and then all the way up the west
coast right off the coast of los angeles and like they had huge circles throughout the ocean
everywhere submarines are literally nuclear submarines are literally littered throughout
the oceans it's pretty bizarre when you think about um so then um so that's the norma story
and for years i'm like well like you know her husband i gotta talk i gotta talk to her i gotta
talk to her husband he confirmed all the stuff about promise i mean that's the thing i gotta
find her i gotta find and um there are four or five norma dji assentos in the united states
and i called all of them none of them will call me back so i don't know which one's which
but i make kind of like an educated guess and i choose this one in south carolina i think we
say in the show it's conway south car it's basically myrtle beach and so don't we you know now we have
funding right and so we're and we're bored uh no i didn't but we you know what it's one thing
there's a giant road trip already like going up and down the east coast interviewing people and
we're like well let's stop in there you know netflix is paying for our gas and our hotels and
everything so we're you know like it's hard to do this research when you're not funded right
it's a lot it costs a lot of money to do like yeah an investigation of course so um so anyways so
we go we we pull up at her house and and we ask her you know her version of the story because we've
only ever heard it from bill and it's like similar but different because it was she didn't learn it
from her husband she learned it at the bowling alley which like and i'm like i'm like still like on
board i'm like okay okay okay so it's just everything's the same except for one change and
that's that the spies weren't her husband but they're at the bowling alley i'm on i'm tracking along
and it's actually whoa no no no dude no dude dude you're getting played or we're getting played
or like she was getting played like you know that was something is going on here and it is not the
same story that christian was told like that was sort of that's right that's really inconvenient
thing that plagues a lot of journalists right when you spend so much time researching something
and then you find something that just doesn't fit that like kind of fucks up everything that you've
been the lattice where it fucks up like the direction you've been going the whole time people
like to just either dismiss it at a convenience or if it proved their story they'll obviously use it to
reinforce totally kind of for me i guess being in that moment and just having maybe it was this
having such high expectations because we we felt like we had done the work and gotten norma and we
were there on the porch and we were just so stoked and we're you know we're always looking for this
whole story is like a story about addiction it's the story of being addicted to the feeling of like
grabbing that next vine and like if i get this next thing like we've got it we've got the story
we've got promise it's in the submarines like that that will then prove all this other stuff true
and instead it's like a freaking shovel and we just are like digging ourselves deeper into like
a hole that we do not understand you know and this is one of those moments where it was like
i simply do not understand what's going on here where like bill who had was such an
encyclopedia and a font of knowledge for christian his story is simply incompatible
with the details of what norma's saying you know and and how her story plays out of finding out
this information in a bowling alley and her saying that her husband she also had been deposed in 1996
and said this essentially the same thing she told us about the bowling alley and everything and but
oh really but we didn't know that we didn't know that she told me del didn't mention that to me in
2013 huh so it's like so it's like what's going on is she getting played is bill getting played
are we getting played like who is playing who and what is one of these things where
what we show his response we finally elicited from him i mean in the at the very end which is he's
i can't remember the exact text of it but something like uh i i i don't know if norma never claimed
that her husband was cia other people told me that and i believe that her source was was valuable
and was reliable or something to that effect you see sort of the exact quote i think in the
show that he he emailed us um but it's just one of the we had to i felt like we had to include it
and of course in the show because it it it just i don't think it discounts i don't think it ruins
like our story you know what i mean it it just deepens it in terms of the the mental gymnastics
that you have to go through to understand it's almost kind of emblematic of the octopus it's
like every time you think you've got something cornered there's a new angle that's there to
throw you off and and i think that danny probably experienced that not specifically with the norma
story but danny experienced that constantly we've experienced it constantly where you have stories
you have amazing stories from michael that we find out are true and then you have stories that are
impossible to verify and it's like what is real and it's that there's also from like there's mundane
stories that we're told that we assume are true because they're so boring and then turns out they're
lies so to me it's it's it's emblematic i think that the frustration is important to understand
in the story it's emblematic of this hall of mirrors that that what it's like to go into these
things and to me as a layman really i think it's emblematic of intelligence of of intelligence
or criminal operations where it's so important to see that you're being played or see that
see that you are never allowed to really hit hard ground and that all of these like characters
whether they even know it or not many of them are there to seem to be there to throw you off of the
scent and you're always sort of grasping for like i know there's something going on i i know x y and z
but i can't get the full you can never get the full picture and and i think other intelligence
related stories like how rob reiner talks about in the his jfk podcast like different things you
see the same pattern play out over and over in these intelligence related operations where
it's a cover story on top of a cover story on top of a cover story and even some of the players
who are telling these stories don't know what's true and what's not did in angleton go out the
wilderness of mirrors yeah that's that's tanny's neighbor
yeah you can't make that up what what made you decide to end the documentary the way you did
with you basically like saying i think you said towards the end of it like the one thing i know
is that um danny rakanashuto is the only person that could have killed danny rakanashuto no
more danny casselero but no but that's the false ending that's the sort of ending before the
ending i think that we wanted it it's our we sort of did it in that way because it's it shows a
process that we went through many times with that that happened in this time it was most apparent
which is like grappling with the fact that like on one you know the whole documentary we talk about
many reasons why it seems like danny might have been murdered but then you have to come to grips
with the fact that maybe he was played and maybe he was in a position where he killed himself i mean
that's you have to grapple with that you have to take that on and that moment of bottoming out
i think after we learned the norma thing and after we talked to certain people people like
doug von who was an investigator journalist and they explained to you like like doug's position
is that danny killed himself like that we don't go into that in the in the thing in the story but
he's like i think that danny did kill himself even though he may have been on to all this stuff
i think he killed himself you know it's like well doug's a really smart guy like he wrote the piece
for the village voice which is i think the best piece about danny casselero's investigation
so anyway that's the fault that's just we made that the sort of like ending before the ending
because we really wanted to land hard on that feeling of what it feels like and it happened
to us multiple times that was just one of them where you're just like oh man is this all kind of
like for nothing you know but it's like either way the story killed him that's how doug von ended
his piece in the village voice and and it's a smart way to look at it and ultimately killed him the
story killed him i mean if he wasn't looking into the story that he wasn't the characters in the
story himself like the story his obsession going into this wilderness and why he died
the story is why he died right um and it's a good story i guess that's that that's almost the
the for me like the we we start with this kind of like either or like if danny if danny killed himself
then and this is how the fbi phrases it too it's like if danny killed himself then he must have
been conned and been on to nothing and then it's like and if danny was murdered
then he must have been on to something and he found something he shouldn't have that's important
and dangerous right right and what we found i think by the end was that you can actually separate
those out and that even if danny did kill himself it does not discount it does not mean the other
thing right which is the fbi's point like yeah danny didn't really find anything it's like no
or we have three and a half episodes where we show all the crazy stuff that danny did find
and all these connections that he found and all these amazing characters and scary characters
dangerous people that he met um and was talking to uh those were real so uh even if he did kill
himself you get where i'm going with this um and then and then the actual ending that we go into
i mean this is whatever spoiler alert but the actual ending is more about what it feels like
like which happened many times but we just show one instance of this when you get sucked right
back in when you're like i think i'm done like i think i can walk away sherry talks about the
feeling of like you decide you share is the journalist who who met with robert nickles um
you decide when it's over because this is almost it's a game and it never ends like it's an ongoing
thing that that never ends and she talks about the feeling of addiction and the feeling of like
you never know when to put it down and then we show you know i think christian multiple
times over his life but we show kind of what the process is of of when you're kind of what she
calls deprogramming when you're trying to get out of it right but as happened to us many times you
see it here it's like you get one call and it's really hard to like not answer the phone and
get that rush back of like maybe if we just have this lead maybe if we just get this information
and the whole door opens and you get all you you get the window into the full octopus and you get
you solve it you solve everything the guy joseph i don't know how to say quay are quay are so
danie met with him at a bar like the night before he was murdered is that right no they met they
met by chance by chance and it was it was a couple months i think before months okay it was towards
the end of his investigation but it was it was it wasn't like the day before he died and was that
guy quayer was he seen near the hotel where danie was during that 24 hour 48 hour period that's the
question besides his name i can tell you that his um his name was floated to the martinsburg police
many times i've got it in their notes they never can spell it right they have really tough time
was spelling over there at martinsburg police department but and i think spelling is important
you're trying to look in databases for yeah people um but sorry and do i sound like a jerk
no it's funny it's fine okay um so this but they don't know i don't have any record of them calling
him interviewing him checking him out bringing going getting a photo of him from the driver's
license or for them for the dmv or from the military or whatever and like
canvassing has anyone seen this man we do have that um that that sketch and we have a guy that
kind of matches his description that another hotel guest was seen entering the room um we have quayer
threatening um danie's friend lin noles to stop asking questions after danie's death about what
happened to danie and what was joe's involvement seems like a weird response if you're asking
somebody like he said something it's business right yeah what danie was investigating was a
business and if you care about your kids and your own life just drink some hot cocoa and stop asking
questions it just seems like a odd response and when he also told tony at some point like i think
i think he floated it that like oh i'll help the family investigate whatever happened but didn't
you know did attend the funeral who attended the funeral quayer really we had man we spent so much
time we had a tape that was kind of a pool pool videography tape they allowed one camera into the
funeral and then disseminated it because there was so much news interest at that time
man we christian scrubbed that tape so much trying to find quayer in the footage it would have been
incredible to find it but you know smart enough guy to either either got got lucky or or was smart
enough to stay stay away from the camera and then additionally there's a story true that
he died on a saturday and they didn't tell the family till monday danie casillero danie casillero
correct he died on it waited so long well that was what they did they did uh but the initial thing
his idea was in the room it's not like they had to like identify who he was right the initial
thing was i mean that was one of the number one red flags for the family just was like
he died two days ago and you've embalmed the body like what about an autopsy and they're like well
you know what you guys aren't open on saturday you know until monday to cry but but also like
there's like very few casilleros in the united states and i'm pretty sure they're all related
and they all know each other you can call any of them and you find out like yeah who to talk to
but that that was like an initial thing of like what is going on here some sort of conspiracy
what's happening here the mundane truth of it basically they called the fairfax danie lived
in fairfax county so martinsburg called fairfax to send an officer to personally notify the family
so that officer drives to danie and danie is a single man who lives alone this officer drives
to danie casilleros home and leaves a business card please call me this is important here's my
number and nobody calls him because nobody lives there anymore god but there's other
casilleros in fairfax you know when did he leave the card on saturday okay yeah so it's just kind
of like a bad police work comedy of errors tragedy of errors kind of situation for that
and the people the guy who you said wrote the article for the village voice who believes that
he was killed himself how does that guy how does he rationalize the fingernails missing and the
tendons being severed and the blood everywhere i think that he is somebody and also he's he's
solved the lapenka bombing um if you know you talk to danie she and that's that's the that's the
case that uh that is that danie brought forth with the with the ended up being like the
honey ovegan case yeah but i just want to say and christian knows more about this but like i just
want to say like i think that dug leaves open the possibility of anything but his default position
maybe kind of like mine is just like in the absence of evidence of of of a murder you have to
go with what seems to be the evidence which is like here's a note and he killed himself like
that's that's how he sort of looks at it am i right yeah yeah because he's going based basing it
on the physical evidence no forced entry right unfortunately the physical evidence is sort of
controlled by the martinsburg police what they want to leak out um we another nickels we uh uh
basically a family friend or kind of a family acquaintance like the medical examiner from
luval where we're from steams also nickels um no relation yeah no relation we gave him all of the
um medical forensic files for him to study and then we had a meeting with him and we went
through it all and he said and this guy's like i mean he oh he's founded the medical examiner's
office right in the 70s and and he's like one of the top has he has he seen people that had
committed suicide by cutting their own wrists i think he's seen everything you know under the sun
but basically what he doesn't disc what he said what he was just like oh what you got here boys
is suicide yeah but the thing is here's the thing that nobody talks about in medical examiner
offices well let me give one more thing for you because i know where your punchline is but
but the other thing that he said is the other thing he said he's like well dr frost the medical
examiner of west virginia who did the autopsy he's like he's not doing you a lot of favors here
like there's not a lot of details in the medical examiner's report that would really show
everything that you would need to know to understand this case oh you don't know what you
don't know you don't know what you don't know and the and it's kind of like a slightly cursory
examination which yeah he wasn't like this is the most beautifully laid out pathology report
i've ever seen boys thank you for bringing it to my attention i'm gonna teach you a lot of
you know yeah yeah so uh no but the thing is that's that's sort of like you know once you're
like total weirdo freak like me there are we've no trace hitmen it's a job that people do right
and the medical examiner doesn't count that in you know i mean as you i guess they would go insane
every single case but well did someone repel through the window right you know fly in and like
you know did like the ethan from mission impossible do it you know you know right um
i forgot well i was going somewhere with that um yeah no what i would be interested in finding out
was like there's gotta be a way to find like some sort of record of a history of people who have
committed suicide by slashing their own wrists and what it looks like right like how deep are the
cuts do they typically do eight cuts they typically cut the tendons i mean in our kind of cursory
research on that stuff i mean it's there's everything under the sun also the finger the
issue that you bring up yeah do you always yeah Danny was a nail biter um and uh and his nails were
in the water for so long gotta you gotta you gotta count you gotta give the skin and the
tissue gets like kind of waterlogged and and soggy and um i don't know yes how long though he for
we don't hours yeah i mean he's found around 12 30 p.m and they said that the time of death
was somewhere around you know they couldn't place it exactly but i think it was like
9 to 9 30 a.m yeah when you sit in a bath with living tissue the beating heart for an hour and
you're like all soggy you know like just getting like a real round table about this right here you
know which i think is a good opportunity like one thing that we don't go into in the show because
we're really intent on of course we wanted to find out what happened to Danny but we're really into
also explaining Danny's story that he was onto because nobody's ever really encapsulated it right
i think in the way that we did um and so what we don't do is kind of like your traditional
true crime thing where you go into like here's like all the forensic evidence of every single thing
you know we we're not forensic pathologists and it would have just it would have been impossible
to do within the four episodes exactly that we had and it would have stopped it down to a point
where we're not telling a story anymore we're just basically doing like a uh yes a different thing
it's a different thing and that's a cool thing and maybe we'll do something like that in the future
but i would just there's a there's yeah there's a couple interesting things that like the theory
of the martinsburg police is that this guy Danny Castellero uh spent the entire weekend
or we he's got there Thursday he dies saturday morning drinking you know just like drinking
himself to death in some ways you know just like pa like he's drinking wine he's drinking
beer blah blah and he's like you know obviously in their mind wasted because he's so pissed off
that he never got anywhere with this story and he kills himself in this kind of desperate weekend
but the problem is like there's no uh there's hardly any trace of alcohol in his there's no
trace of alcohol in his in his blood and there's hardly any in his urine but there's like beer cans
in the room there's beer cans there's a half a wine bottle next to the next to the bathtub you know
it's like right but there's also shoestring there's like a shoestring on his body that came from shoes
from his apartment or from his house like they you put that into the other category of like oh he
planned on it like there's all kinds of different like conflicting totally and evidence right but uh
but yeah to me that the way he never locked his door the the thing that to me is like yeah it's
just like if your theory is that he was drinking the whole weekend and got wasted and killed himself
like you know your your heart stops beating when you kill yourself and it's up your liver
stops processing alcohol so one would think that there would be some kind of alcohol in your system
if you're wasted when you're killing yourself he also weirdly was last seen at the sheets coffee
shop like which is a block from the um Sheridan where he died um at midnight buying a cup of coffee
which is like a yeah you don't typically mix coffee with booze yeah and then he died um
they think eight hours later um yeah it's what was going on right yeah he goes to the
he goes to the coffee shop at midnight there's two women there one's behind the counter and
others the customer who's just a friend of the of the of the lady behind the counter and he orders
coffee he has to wait for them to brew it because they didn't have any so he just she's
because it's midnight yeah it's midnight so he just hangs out there for like 10 minutes or whatever
and she's just like yeah you seem like nice guy like we just kind of chatted up or he was like
you know just like shot the shit for a few minutes and then she gave him the coffee for free because
she was like he had to wait so I gave it to him for free just to be nice and then he walks back
presumably walks back to the Sheridan to drink his coffee where he then becomes so distraught
that he can't even write a full suicide note and sign it and he has a fear of blood which we don't
even get into and he had a fear of needles and a needle and blood which I also do and so I really
empathized with his with what with his supposed suicide because I was like I have that same fear
there's no way I would go out that way no way I would do anything else and I you know obviously
don't want to die like life make that very clear but um I I wouldn't yeah I wouldn't no no no
fucking way what I cut myself ever you know right because I hate my I hate my blood is really cool
when it's inside the body um what sort of backlash if any have you guys gotten from the
documentary since it's come out since it's been out we got any we expected I think that we were
expecting a lot more you know especially from like I don't know what we thought would happen but we
really are I always worried about like this thing comes out and like people are after us right or
it's a flop because it's too confusing people seem to love it you know but but so and and I also
the Rolls Royce you pulled up and I imagine that was a pretty good popular hit well you
missed the helicopter too no Zach had to go around to open the back door because it didn't
the handle is broken on my side so sorry oh okay so um and and I think I make a point of not really
reading too much of our press because I find even the positive stuff like slightly depressing
because I'm like that wasn't the point I was trying to make there you know it's like I'm such a
critic I guess right um but someone said don't read reviews you know it's kind of like a mantra
you hear about people that make yeah films and I don't like I didn't read any of the reviews but
people have mentioned certain things that they've read to me it seems like it's been mostly been
positive uh there's like been one negative review of somebody who wanted it to be a little bit more
like cut into bite-sized chunks for them to digest it and it's like dude it's like the
hardest story to tell that I can imagine just pay attention watch it twice it's actually and
and the headline the headline on that one was uh dot new netflix documentary sheds little light on
you know whatever the castler case says sheds little light dude we shed people like got their
brains melted you know uh they we shed a lot of fucking light on on this story I I yeah it's like
I guess uh anything that has a even remotely like even intentionally slightly ambiguous
ending I don't think it's ambiguous so I think it's showing something of of a more deeper reality
of what this is like this story is like is just like oh no like they didn't find anything it's like
dude we've we didn't find anything we've we've got the tapes of these guys talking about murders
that are completely unsolved that we give like a very logical and and well researched theory on
what actually happened we go into never before seen uh stuff about a serial killer who's working
for the FBI who you know it's like that nobody has ever heard of rarely has he been mentioned
outside of this show um there's almost no articles about him no information not very much information
about him um publicly available uh we picked up Michael we're kind of shooting up from yeah
sorry we get like I get really like I rate I rate when I started thinking about people being like
what where did you land on this thing it's like you didn't even know anything about this case
before you made this four hour thing and we put our we put our lives into this thing and I feel
like we came up with a ton of stuff and I'm sorry a few things are ambiguous but that's you have to
grapple with that life is ambiguous the intelligence community is extremely ambiguous criminal
community is extremely ambiguous and you need to be able to grapple with that well it's kind of
like the ending of Tom's book right Tom didn't have a conclusion at the end of his book yeah he
just kind of it's kind of like just documents the whole journey and basically like unravels the
whole ball of yarn and exposes everything that was a part of it things people nobody knew about
like from the probation officers and all the operations that were tied to it and like at the
end of it there's no conclusion but you can't be mad at it because it's a fucking incredible right
I think there is a conclusion but it's a conclusion that like if for his book which is like it's a
conclusion of like you need to like extrapolate on this and like sometime you know his he wanted to
tie manson directly to the the MKLTRA that was his whole point right and it's like well he did a
damn good job of getting as close as you can and showing the inter whether it was a direct connection
there's an interconnected nature to it and like illustrating you know how operation chaos and
MKLTRA functioned so you can kind of like make you know logical conclusions and and you know maybe
I'm just ignorant but his stuff about jolly west just I didn't know anything about and and yeah
learning just the fact of his existence and and how he existed and what happened with with killing
the elephant killing the elephant I you know and I think like certain people probably knew that
story before Tom did this this like double life of like coming in and being this like
lauded but him being directly psychology expert but then also like hypnosis and memory expert
like and but Tom Tom it's like you have to give him all the credit in the world for the
simple fact of connecting him with uh Sid Seamer or whatever it's called and his like code name
right oh right right not Sid Seamer but that's his code name I think no Sid Seamer is another
sorry oh shit Sid Seamer's sorry sorry what's it Sidney Gottlieb Sidney Gottlieb yeah but he's
under that a code name in the in the thing uh SG is the initials that uses but it's in their
correspondence yeah right sorry guys there's so many SIDS so many nickels so many different things
yeah um anyway I know that there's been like so some people sent us some article that's like
critical of us uh for all this stuff but it's like it's I skimmed it it's full of like
complete untruths and it was just like spelling errors Christian's obsess with spelling errors
yeah it's just sloppy journalism we've spelled things wrong but we we have the graciousness to
correct our misspellings and like you know but but just makes allegations about us about us being
CIA CIA mouthpieces it's like it's I don't know what do you how do you even respond to that it's
like how do you yeah pull up stay you pull up the conclusion of the article that we were looking at
oh yeah the the conclusion of that was was fantastic yeah basically that article basically concludes
that you guys are uh peddling the CIA narrative of conspiracy theories by labeling the show
conspiracy conspiracy American conspiracy there it is that was the end of it yeah that that go back
to the very bottom oh shit there's that great up in it there's me in a picture where I'm where to go
I think it's the very loud yeah yeah there it is American conspiracy the octopus murders
effectively serves as the agenda of the CIA and continuing a cover-up I guess I almost said as
much massive crimes surrounding the theft of the promise software and trying to discourage
further investigation into the crimes of the octopus I don't understand how anybody can draw
that conclusion from I mean I said earlier I guess that we effectively serve the agenda of the
CIA by saying that whatever makes the CIA seem badass helps their thing but we don't help their
cover-up nor do we help I don't know it's like how do you respond to this two paragraphs above
saying Robert Altman not the one of my favorite directors of cinema but Robert A. Altman who is
worked at this bank BCCI a lot of people have seen Robert Altman on their our star map and they
think that's some sort of talking about a different Robert Altman we love we love Nashville
okay so Robert A. Altman had reluctantly agreed to meet Castellero who was threatening to give the
checks from the Kuwait Royal family to purchase tow missiles okay this is saying that this
guy that worked at actually its first American bank not BCCI was reluctantly agreed to where did
they learn that information that's based on what let me click the link let's click the link let's
see where we learn about how he reluctantly agreed to meet us this article is full of conjecture
okay so it's going to go to another article on the same exact website that's SEO man that's how
you uh that's how you climb the search engines it's go to it can you go to the other article
it it wouldn't load so I don't know if it's great it works yeah I don't know son so it's it's it's
then a self-reinforcing thing I haven't even looked at this but I'm just assuming that it's
probably going to be it's by the same or the same same author yeah and so it's going to be circular
it's what's called a a tautology right a circular argument and so it's like I don't even know how
to respond to something like this because there's no way to prove it like a negative of this it's
like I don't know dude like do we help the cover up I don't think so do we bring new information
to light that whoever wrote this had never known before absolutely it's like what's your point
like we're helping we're discouraging research like in what universe are we discouraging more
research I think this article also says that the meeting that we had in Conway South Carolina
with Norma it quotes someone saying that that our that meeting was staged in the film how are
you like it quotes a guy from Australia who like I've talked to on the phone a few times but like
never about that and okay so why don't you can quote like a monkey you know about
something I mean who how do you what's your size sound like I'm okay who
no why why why why does he know they also didn't ask us for comment so how is that fair
I knew if we like started going into this I was gonna start getting like so heated and so
annoyed every every footnote of this article goes back to this Peter Osborne guy right he's
in Australia oh that's the Australian guy yeah he he that's oh I think that's a picture of him
there he is I don't know it's it's hard for us to divine what's in Peter Osborne's mind and why he
thinks that what he thinks in this article which I have to be honest I just haven't actually
fully read but the things that we've discussed like it's just not true it's hard to argue with
things that are just simply not true um and we also like he was one of the guys who spent like
he spent the most time investigating this case right he spent well like 30 years I gave him a
lot of material in oh really in 2016 of Danny's of Danny's notes he's like the expert on the case
but he was like you know you've done a great thing by going to the archive that had all Danny's notes
and copying them it's like well what took you so long dude like it's like the first thing I did
I tried to just learn about the investigating the case the first thing you do is like
go to the archive and get his notes and read those right mm-hmm how much collaboration did you
guys have on the research I were like even in your early days like I'm sure you learned about
in the early days there was like an email chain where this guy Gordon Seville and his partner at
the time Peter who they've since had a falling out and then Bill Hamilton and then this other like
pretty awesome kind of FOIA expert named Emma Best we all just kind of like exchanged information
over email for you know a few years and then it got it got a little kooky and and Emma left and I
left or whatever it died down or whatever there was I'm not sure exactly what happened
hmm but it was mostly Emma Emma's FOIAs and the the documents that I got you know stateside
because the other guys were one guy was in Australia and the other guy was in Canada and
they they didn't come here and all the files were here right but we gave them you know all
the stuff and we put it on what happened well what happened really was that Christian had gone to
when we show it in the movie Christian had gone to the Missouri archive captured pictures of
all of Danny's notes and then gave them to Emma who then I think without Christian's permission
but it wasn't a big deal I guess but put those all on archive.org and so and that's that's years
and years ago and you can go to archive.org I think anybody it's it's funny like anybody who
knew about this case before we released this documentary a lot of them would have seen
documents of Danny's notes on archive.org I think and doesn't realize like they actually
kind of come from Christian doing the work and Emma is me and Emma posting them and you see his
name like she put his name she put my twitter my twitter handle under all the stuff that I
contributed yeah that was nice so so Christian this the many of the Danny notes it actually got me
in trouble later I had to go back because you know the versions that you'll see on archive.org are
like really janky and like because I was just like I wasn't photographing them to put them in a film
I was just photographing him to have them right and so I'm just like running through boxes you
know it takes five days and there's like they just look like crap in there the color balance is bad
and the resolution is bad and so basically I had to go back with a good camera and good lighting
to get good versions of all of them for the film because we know we highlight we show Danny's
handwritten notes throughout the whole movie and we've got to like zoom in on them and have them
look clean and not like pixelated and right so I did another week back you know photographing them
all over again um but they almost didn't let me come because they like looked me up and they were
like dude you put this all you broke our our rules like you you signed something when you came here
saying that like this is for research purposes only and you put it on the internet like what do
you think and they were like really pissed and I had to like someone else leaked it wasn't me and
you know it eventually just went to the castle rung it up the ladder and was like it was a copy
it was worried about copyright claim but I was like look this the copyright the Tony Kessler
has the copyright of Danny Kessler's original writing and he allowed us to use the writing so
there's not yeah there's no copyright concern anymore this is a real entry into the the
miniscule process oriented parts of us making this documentary if you're interested how has
working on this documentary changed your outlook on the world or like even like your outlook on the
media or anything you see in the news or just even living your daily life well you can like you know
you can do research and you can do deep research and I kind of have this sort of like I feel like
I don't know about anything that I haven't researched deeply so I basically don't know about anything
except this case and yeah it's made me you know more skeptical I mean all the stuff about like
subterfusion deception and like you know the cover up various cover ups and I didn't used to care
about any of this stuff I mean I'm sure it's very similar for you the people that you've talked to
you know in these long intimate conversations and all the research you've done on all these kind of
like out there topics like things aren't as they seemed you know when we were in third grade and we
assume the way the world was it's not really like that you know yeah once you start like digging
it's it's weird I mean the way you put it in the documentary that scene where you you talked about
it's like the monster hiding under the bed is real yeah and you even show this like crazy
fucking creepy monster hiding under a bed that was an octopus yeah that was the octopus yeah we just
went some we went full nature show on it which we've been wanting to do but what about you Zach
how's it changed you or has it I'm just the same old dude um no I think MK ultra all the time yeah
you know more I feel like since Christian had been working on this for 12 years like I watched
it him change you know especially in the early years when we weren't really filming much
that was kind of scary for a little while just to see like oh god like is Christian losing it
and and then is like oh my gosh is he dealing with like people who he shouldn't be dealing with
like just multiple levels of freaked outness once you're on the when you're on the outside of this
looking in and then for me it's a shorter time period of me really engaging with this and I just
simply would not have cared I not cared but I just would have known about a lot of this
stuff without Christian you know and so it's like a tight timeframe tighter time frame for me and
and it I don't know if it makes life any easier just being like so skeptical about any narrative
you're being fed but I guess it also is like by the end of the edit I was like I was so I was so
tired and I was kind of like another part of like checked outedness just you know the last few
weeks I was just exhausted and Zach is like got even better sources than me now and he's on the
phone late at night it's like and he's also like he's the captain of the of this like post-production
ship and figuring out how the pieces go together and help working with the composer and working
with the edit and working with and dealing with the executives and the partners and everything
and I'm just gonna and the poor guy then he's like just like on the phone like for hours on end
late into the night like talking to talking to like these news sources that he came up with
who ended up giving us some amazing materials in the last minute and like you know yeah but bless
his heart he was like you you know he's he's so he pretends like he's not but he said how I mean
I would imagine that this coming out would also have a make a lot of other important information
or sources kind of like emerge in the course of this three or whatever however long conversation
I've probably gotten five to eight dms about other conspiracies or related conspiracies like people
are like coming out of the woodwork please only message me if you have actionable intel please
keep it succinct I mean like directly relating to this like I would imagine that people would come
out of the woodwork that would like potentially be a huge help it's it's been tough because we
thought a that we would get a little break releasing the show like we knew that we would do
like some press and try to get the show out there vacation and we thought maybe like a little vacation
like a little you know this has been years that we've been doing it it was supposed to only be
like a year and a half um and that hasn't happened it doesn't feel like it's gonna happen anytime
soon because yeah as soon as I mean I guess we should have guessed this but as soon as it came
out yes people started coming telling us stuff and some of it some of it is is at least worth
researching and seeing if these people are telling a real story because it's damn interesting and it's
that same process I was describing earlier where it's like what names are they mentioning and what's
the chronology and like what are stuff that that we know that's not in the film that like you know
classic thing it's like what do you know and how importantly how do you know it right now it gets
even harder too because now you guys have got you must assume that somebody either either people
want to fuck with us because it's fun for them or you could assume the even worse idea which is the
more the more sinister idea which is that what if people are actively feeding us disinformation
for a because of what we've uncovered not just to like be internet weirdos but to actually mess
with us mix it oh god for me it just starts to start to just get into this like crazy mind like
game theory sort of territory where you're like wait what is real like how do we how do we even
like go about figuring this out but ultimately it's like I guess it is the classic thing we have to be
we had to be skeptical of every single story before and after well what are you guys gonna do next
I mean do you guys have any plans to if you guys did go back at this story would you have an idea
of what angle you would take or what where you would go with it or what are your guys plans
there's there's a lot of stuff that we couldn't fit in and stuff we I know we covered we talked
about with you that like would have been nice but we probably wouldn't do a film on like I don't
think we'd do the follow-up on I don't know if we could do the follow-up on cab there's a ton of
we probably wouldn't go back into cab I'm not sure if we can go to cab we will probably
I would like to go back to San Francisco and you know narratively yeah there's stories that are like
there's little hints of things that I think maybe if we developed that we characters and stuff that
you might see for a second or that we go into like one part of their story that actually have a huge
other backstory that's like worth an episode or worth a half an episode there's also like the idea
of like what if yeah there's entire stories connected to dandy's story that we didn't cover
there's also all like in episode three we we talk about like the octopus there's like the bcci
nougat hands savings and loan like wilson terpaul like we in our film we only do two arms of the
like we only really don't dig in we don't do it deep dive yeah and and you know those are all
amazing on their own amazing stories that could be we could put us our this sort of template of
filmmaking that we've kind of that we're using and it would just it would pop it would be below
people's minds and and we it would be it would be amazing but yeah there's so many areas to go
it's so little time right yeah I think that it's like we designed this to be a self-contained thing
and and this idea of like oh did you leave the ending open and no like we left the we left the
ending on a feeling that I think is important um as a conclusion the problem is that I think I was
talking about somebody with this it's like it's like we're actually making a nature show like
we're showing how an ecosystem works and there's kind of no beginning and no end to an ecosystem
right and there's questions that we have that are unresolved of course but then there's just like
the rest of the nature program of all the other little creatures inside of the aquarium
David Attenborough DVD number two yeah so there's and but I think that we wouldn't want to do it
unless it would unless we felt strongly that it would be just as good if not better than what
we've done before you know I don't want to just like pursue stuff because it's like oh well now
you got like a brand and you can like keep on like doing all this season one season two season two
it's like we I have I have zero desire to like brand it as such unless it's like man you guys
much like the octopus is like you start and you think you've got something cool and then you
find something that's like even bigger and bolder that you can come out with that like
people haven't seen before that would be dope mm-hmm do you guys have to uh deal with people
trying to spine your phones and spine your fucking emails and I don't know I don't never you never
had to even think about it I think about it all the time I have no qualification for being able to
suss that out really you see with a gun under your pillow all the time don't don't let anybody
forget it and we're good good freaking shot to plutonium bullets Kentucky yeah we got the we
actually did get the plutonium bullets yeah we shouldn't have said we didn't we did and we have
a variety of home alone like traps surrounding any residents we've ever micro machines paint cans
paint cans the third paint cans home alone too yeah yeah that's amazing well thank you guys for
doing this man thank you so much this is so fun to talk to you incredible um other than watching
your documentary on Netflix look at where you know only fans Twitter only octopus yo underscore quick
Christian on Twitter um don't haven't really embraced Twitter that much yet um and I usually
use Instagram I'm a christian hide handsome there um and we should have done like a sort of like
place where it's really just octopus content or something like that but we were so busy just
trying to finish the dang thing that we didn't like get super organized on the social media front
I want to model my account after Tom O'Neill's where there's like continued stuff that didn't
that hit the yeah cutting room floor yeah um that you know we'll we could start putting out on our
social media yeah there's a lot of stuff that would be cool to just show Zach finally decided to go
public he was private for a really long time who Zach I just like I don't want to advertise it but
or keep that just find the social media and the internet to be a generally scary world it is
definitely it's a wilderness talking about a wilderness of mirrors well thank you guys again
really appreciate it you guys got to catch a flight goodbye world goodbye thanks so much for having us
