Good morning, my brother. Thanks for coming back. How'd you sleep?
You know, at the end of the program. Pretty good. Pretty good across the board. No complaints.
It's just crazy times right now. Some of the things that are going on around the world.
So yeah, sometimes it's worth losing sleep over. Lots of crazy shit going on right now, man.
There is to it's nuts. I slept better because I didn't. I did need a fucking an edible last night.
When I when I don't eat the edibles, I sleep better. Oh, it's weird. I sleep harder when I eat them.
But I don't wake up feeling better. Like when I don't eat edibles or I don't smoke weed before bed,
I wake up feeling way more rested. It's odd. I don't know why. Yeah, like I said, I'm just
circling through that point of it right now where cannabis seems to do the trick no matter what
I'm doing. And the edibles always help. So I'm sure at a certain point, there's just nothing
that weed can't fix. Amen. Amen. So what are you up to, man? Listen, man, just watching a lot of
new things are going on around the world right now. It's been been an amazing time. I think that
we look at some of the paranormal phenomena that's going on. You can't help but get get involved
with it. It's so interesting. I don't know how many of the shows you've been following or watching.
You know, you've got Skinwalker Ranch. I gotta think right now you've got about 18 to 20 different
shows that are on. Yeah, there's so many fucking show. People, the whole UFO, UAP phenomena right
now, it's just like it's so much bigger and mainstream than it's ever been. And with like
the news that came out, the Pentagon acknowledging it, it just makes me so skeptical of the whole
thing. Oh yeah. Oh, it's truly amazing. It's like, what's there? Why? You know, back in the 50s and
the 60s, it was like, deny, deny, deny. And now it's, okay, these things are here. So I automatically
say, okay, whatever the government's telling us, I'm going to automatically assume the opposite.
And listen, obviously, they've trained us that way. I think at the end of the day, when you start
looking at some of the stories that come out and how they're being presented, especially with the
Pentagon coming out and saying, hey, listen, UAPs are real. We're not sure where they come from.
We're not sure what they're about. They haven't showed any aggression.
And then you've got air, you got some of the pilots from coast to coast, up and down the coast of
Florida, who had the run in with the, the gimbal, they call it. And then one of the other guys on
the other coast had a run in with a UAP that they call the tic-tac. So some of these vehicles are
just so amazing. As the one pilot that had talked about the event that took place off the coast
of Florida, everybody said, well, isn't this classified information? Because you're about
to tell, he goes, no, listen, it's a safety concern. He goes, when I initially witnessed this,
we saw him on our radar on our new systems that we had, but really weren't sure what we were looking
at. Wasn't sure if it was just background. And he goes, then we actually saw one, and it came between
this particular pilot and his co-pilot, who was his wingman, and actually split the plane,
went between them. And it scared the pilot so bad, he said, I didn't know what it was. It was a
circle with a square inside. And it flew by the, he got so close to our aircraft, because my concern
was not necessarily on, on what's classified, but what's safe for us flying in the air. Because if
we hit one of these things, they said, we believe that we're going to be, you know, the ones, oh,
look, they're, they crashed because he wasn't a good pilot versus something hit, hit the plane.
So he said, I want to make everybody aware of that. So that's because I didn't care whether it
was classified or not, I was going to come out and explain to the people that this is a safety
issue has nothing to do with, you know, aliens. He said, I don't know. That's what it was.
What do you think that tic-tac really is? Like what, my opinion on it has changed,
but what do you think it is? I think it's definitely something that the U.S. has.
As long as I've been following the, this trend of UFOs, I've never seen that tic-tac in any
photographs or had people talk about it. What's interesting about this is that, you know, obviously
the tic-tac takes two different looks. If it's coming at you, it looks round. And if it's going
what's the word I'm looking for? If it flies at an angle by you, you can actually tell it's a
long projectile with nothing, no wings, nothing on it to the outside. So, and it's obviously
something that's anti-gravity, has the ability. I've heard that some of the individuals talk
about within the federal government that DARPA and some of these other groups are 400 years ahead
of time. So obviously looking at a vehicle like that, if it's 400 years ahead of us and technology
wise, that's doing some amazing things. Yeah, one of the theories of it being time travelers
is very interesting to me. Like it could, because they, they kind of like appear and reappear out
of like, out of, they're not, it doesn't seem like it's real matter. Like, you know what I mean?
It seems like, not only is it, there's no real photographs of it, like you would think if there
was something like this, we would be drowning in photographs and videos of it, right? But we're
not. Right. So it's, if, if that's the case, it's almost like whoever is maneuvering these things
has control of that. And they have the ability to manipulate light, manipulate
space time and avoid detection like that. So just like the idea of it being time travelers to me
almost makes more sense than anything. Well, it's crazy too, because when you, when you think
about this, for the most part, like, let's look at skinwalker ranch real quick, we're talking
about these portals that are opening up. And they actually believe, and listen, when I originally
heard this, I kind of chuckled at it and thought, you know, why are the, why are this this group
of people saying this? But they talked about Bigfoot, or they talk about skinwalkers coming
through these portals. Well, watching the skin, the skinwalker ranch program, it's on TV right now,
a couple of nights ago, they were trying an experiment, they're trying to shoot these rockets
up into space, because there's some sort of phenomena about a mile above the, the actual
property. They're trying to figure out what this, this phenomena is, every time they shoot
something up into it, it gets like bounced off of it. During the process of this, they've got
cameras running all over the place, and they've actually picked up some lights, and they actually
refer to them as portals, they're asking the question, are these portals that these, these
creatures are able to pop back and forth from. Now I initially kind of chuckled at some of this
because I thought, you know, why would Bigfoot, why would the government be interested in keeping
Bigfoot, or Harry Man, or Sasquatch a secret from everybody that didn't make sense to me originally?
I said, this doesn't make sense. I watched a program the other night, and they said, listen,
they believe in this, and this is a program called exhibition Bigfoot. Dr. Moia Alexander, who's on
there, is a leading professional in, in paleotology and information with regards to animals, especially
gorillas and other animals that walk upright. So she, she began to evaluate this whole program
and started looking at it and found these lights, these portals, these orbs were floating around,
and I started to kind of chuckle, but you start seeing them on TV, and she doesn't understand
what she's looking at. Now keep in mind too, as a doctor, she can't lie. If she lies about
anything that she is involved with, she runs the risk of losing her medical license
across the board. So when she comes out and starts talking about some of these events that are
taking place, you kind of scratch your head, but she said that one of the interesting things was
that, and that she believed, that Bigfoot had the ability to cloak himself. Well, when I started
thinking about it, the federal government would love to know how that's happening, and whether
it's happening with his fur or his hair, they're really not sure, but they definitely believe that
he's somehow cloaking himself, and watching the program, they were able to actually videotape
some material where they saw a shadow, but no actual body, and they looked at it from 10 different
angles trying to figure out what it was, and more or less prove their point with regards to
there is something bigger that's going on. Is it truly time travel? Is it they're using these
portals to, you know, travel around the world? Also, you know, all the other planes that are
out there, these different backdrops for where they come from, different planets or different
time zones or different, you know, areas of phenomena that occur to try to figure out
what these things are doing. Are they sent here to monitor the planet Earth? Everybody ties them
in with the UFO phenomena, which I'm starting to actually buy off on, which I initially had
no inkling. I thought, no, that's not, that's ridiculous. What would these things have to
do with each other? I think that's one of the reasons that people are able to dismiss it so
much, honestly, because when you start talking about UFOs, and then you start talking about Bigfoot,
you're like, oh, come the fuck on. Oh, yeah. Can we just talk about, like, do you have to
be a Bigfoot expert and be a, like, once you do that, you're just like, that's kind of like,
even me, like, you kind of like, like, you lose me sometimes when you talk, when people talk about
that, like, automatically, if you're into UFOs, you're automatically interested in Bigfoot and,
you know, all these other things and these conspiracy theories, and there's just a stigma
to it. Well, it sounds so funny because your whole life, you're told there's no monsters, you know,
there's nothing out there, it's all safe and warm and fuzzy. And then as you start to listen to some
of these shows, you know, they start talking about UFOs and individuals being taken from their beds
at night, you know, and having all these different programs and processes done to their body to
figure out what's going on. And I can't believe that all these people are not being truthful.
I mean, some of these people, you can go back to the 40s and 50s when there were some,
a couple that was taken out of New Hampshire, Betty and Barney, they were a couple,
black and white couple. He was black, she was white.
Betty and Barney Hill.
There you go. And they were actually coming home one night from an event that took place
and had to run in with a UFO. And to listen to him go under hypnosis and listen to him,
the terror that's in his voice as he realizes that these are something else other than earthly
entities is very real. So I don't think that, you know, people like him and they didn't want
that attention initially because they were a black and white couple and back in the 60s,
that wasn't something that was real popular. So I think to, to, to watch what he did to step out,
to try to make people aware of the fact that these things are real and that it's going on and the
stories just continue to build. Well, it's, it's interesting. Do you know, do you remember what
year the Betty and Barney Hill story came out? Like was it, was that in the 50s or the 60s?
I think it was the late 50s early 60s. Yeah. I want to say probably like 62, 63.
What's interesting is about this whole UFO phenomenon is that when the, the first stories
of flying saucers broke in America, I think it was 1952. And there was a story published about
flying saucers flying over Washington DC. I remember the story. What else happened in 1952?
The very first H bomb ever detonated on earth. Well, there you go. When the United States tested
that mic, the first H bomb off the Pacific, those Pacific islands. So it's, so what was that?
Did we send a signal? Did we send a signal to the cosmos saying that, hey, we now have the
technology and we're close to discovering our source code. We are close to being able to visit
you. Absolutely. I think too, when you look at the begin consideration, I think there's,
there's something going on with the planet. I don't know whether it's mineral driven. I mean,
if you go back and if you look at the, the kind of the way it's laid out, if you look at the
group called the Anunnaki, when they came here to this country, to this planet, they're kind of
painted as an alien group that wanted the resources of gold and would actually grind the
gold up and eat it. And they said it actually made their bodies like a, like a semiconductor,
just more efficient across the board, which is bizarre in itself. But if you take it and you
start looking back from that point on and go forward, it's not so odd. You start to see some
of the similarities. You start to hear some of the things that are, that they talk about in the
Bible as really not so much a spiritual thing, but more as a, as an entity or an alien. And
basically they're just coming down here for the minerals. I think when you start to review most
of the stories, it's about that. They're still looking at us from across the group. I've heard
through project disclosure that there was 60 something different alien life forms that were
actually coming to this planet. And project disclosure, project disclosure, project disclosure
came out in 1998. It was put on by a group of scientists who brought in, I think I want to say
46 or 47 former military personnel, all with crypto zoological classifications. And they
would begin to tell you some of the things that they had experienced or had they had what they
had actually seen. One of the guys there was said that he was, his primary job was to review
video footage of combat and to look at what, you know, where the enemy was and where we were
positioned at. And he said, in the process of this, they brought him into a back room. And he
said, I was waiting for my chief petty officer to come back to show me some additional information
on the video. When one of the guys in the room called me over, it goes, Hey, man, come on, check
this out. And he said, so he walked over and the guy said, Hey, this is the dark side of the moon.
Those buildings are not ours. So he said, as I stood there, I realized I didn't have the
classification or the security clearance to be looking at this. And he goes, I wasn't actually
got afraid because I thought my chief petty officer is going to come back and see me standing
over here and I'm going to get in trouble. So he kind of walked away from it. He goes,
but it was that moment when I realized, Hey, there's something bigger going on. Why would
that guy begin to even tell me that again, we were in a, in a, an environment where it's classified
information. So everything's going to be precise or it's going to be his best guess. And at that
point, that's when I began to realize, Hey, there's something bigger than, than all of us that are
just really going on around the world. And so he began to begin to get more interested in it. And
this group began to get more interested in it until they actually came out. And in this group,
again, project disclosure, it was a great group of people that came out. They all had something
different to say about the, you know, what took place, what's going on within the, the
federal government and how they're doing it. You had another guy that came out who was the,
one of the, it wasn't a prime minister of, of Canada, he was the defense minister.
And he came out, you mentioned him before. Yeah. And he came out and said, Hey, you know,
the UFOs are as real as the planes that fly over your home. And then he made a comment that he said
the, the, the American had been dealing with the tall whites, which supposedly is this very
tall Nordic looking blonde hair, blue-eyed group of folks, but the US had been dealing with them
for probably the last 15 or 20 years. Well, here's the, here's the interesting thing about
specifically the Tic Tac UFOs. So if the Tic, the Tic Tac UFOs that commander David Fraver spoke about
flying off the coast of, I think it was San Diego. Correct. The exact way he describes those things,
how the way they moved, how fast they moved, the shape of them, how they came up from out of the
water. There was a video post, I think it was by Jordan, I don't know if you can find this,
but there's a video that was posted by James Fox. He's a director who works on a bunch of,
he's worked on a bunch of documentaries on the same subject. And he posted a video of a pilot
from, I believe it was the seventies or the sixties being interviewed describing the same
exact kind of UFO when he was flying somewhere. I forget where he was flying. I believe he was
flying from like South America to America. So it was an international flight of some sort. Yeah.
Yeah, an international flight of some sort. And he describes this exact same object in the fifties.
So if this was going on, if people had reported seeing something just like this in the fifties,
like what are the chances that we would have had that technology back then?
Oh, and listen, that's really, I think the biggest conception or misconception on this whole thing.
You know, we talk about from the fifties and sixties, because we just finally get some sort of
proof of or some sort of confirmation that these things actually exist and are around.
I think, you know, when you look at, listen, we go right back to ancient aliens, the show,
I think we've all seen the show ancient aliens and do they show so many things
there that make you think about where we really came from and what we're doing on the planet to
begin with. And that you go back and you look at some of these flying machines that they perpetrate
in the the art from the 14th and 15th century. I think that all these artists saw something in
the sky or aware of it. And the time to, you know, you couldn't actually talk about extra
thresholds or other planets because the church ran everything. And if the church thoughts you were
running against them, they're going to put you to death, they're going to say you're a witch,
they're going to make up this the situation and put you to death. And that'll be the end of it.
So I think some of these artists put them in the drawings just to show
kind of a silent method of showing, hey, there's something in the skies.
The weird thing about these shows is the shows like ancient aliens and even the even the skin
walker ranch show. There's something about them that just kind of like doesn't do the subject
any favors. Like it I'm sure like it gets people interested to an extent. But the fact that it's
like I've watched them and I've been involved in in creating television and I just there's so
much manufactured drama in those shows, especially the skin walker ranch show. You know, there's so
much that goes on with coordinating those people and setting up shoots. Like these things aren't
just randomly happening while they happen to have a crew there. There's a lot of money that
goes into producing these shows and they have to be on schedule. They have to have things set up.
Like they're setting, I guarantee you they're setting up 99% of the things that are happening
during that show. I'm not saying that none of those things have happened. Like I truly believe
that I mean there's no way anybody could rationally explain the fucking cattle mutilations that have
been happening on those ranches. Like these cows that have been meticulously cut with zero drops
of blood anywhere. And these cat like you said they were stacked on top of each other. There's no
blood. The organs were removed perfectly with precision like some sort of surgeon mutilated
these cows. Like there's no way of explaining this stuff. But these shows, the TV shows and
dramaticizing it like that and having these things set up just from my understanding of how
television production works, it's like I can't take it seriously. I have to see like like my whole thing is
there. Why isn't the real scientific community, like the real scientists and researchers out
there, why aren't they debunking the shit out of Skinwalker Ranch? Sure. Well, I mean listen,
look at Travis. Travis Wall and Travis. No, well, this is Travis. What the heck is his last name?
He's a PhD. He's a scientist. He is, comes from a heavy background in this whole thing. And he's
the one who got invited to Skinwalker Ranch and he initially said, look, I thought I was going to
get out there and I'm going to tell these guys, Hey, here's what's really going on. This phenomenon
that's happening. It's not this, this covert secret, you know, anything. There's, there's a
reasonable explanation for all that's going on. He goes from one of the first guys I met here,
he said, one of the first things they told us we couldn't do was dig on the ranch. Can't dig on
the ranch. Can't dig on the ranch. The one, one of the hands that actually came up thought that's
ridiculous. It's the most retarded thing I've ever heard in my life. And he goes, so he actually
started, he went out and bought a bobcat and was doing some work on the ranch and he was digging.
Um, somehow the top of his skin on his skull separated from the skull and the fatty material.
And he ended up having to go into the hospital. And this just was the event from digging. Now,
he didn't actually kept saying, Oh, this isn't real. This was just something that I mean,
the doctors don't understand why this happened. So when Travis Parker came on the show, who's the
who's the scientist, the, uh, with the PhD, um, he started to look at this and said the only thing
he could have done that was microwave energy. Um, so it would have to be directed microwave
energy. So he said, for me, that was odd because again, where the hell is this energy coming from
on the grounds here? So he goes, as we started to kind of monitor this energy, this fluctuation
that was going on, we noticed that, um, it was associated with the phenomena. So they brought in
the, again, additional scientists to come in. They wanted to, they were looking for a portal
that was in one of the buildings. And what they brought in, they brought in some, uh, thermal
cameras so they could videotape this. And in the process of videotaping it, the front of the door
turned very, it was like 20 degrees colder than the rest of the house. And this was kind of the
first thing that took place that really got Travis's attention. Like, Hey, we can't explain why
it's 20 degrees colder. Even in, even during the filming of this, they had a small orb that came
into the picture, which again, they're looking through a thermal camera. So he said, if that was
a live animal, it would come out orange. This thing was blue, blue indicating that was cold.
So he said, I don't, I don't know what would be able to travel like that through the air
and not have a color other than something that was cold. So as he began to get farther and farther
into trying to debunk these, all these different theories that were going on,
nothing more than more and more phenomena kept occurring. Um, they, between phones not working,
batteries dying, every group they brought out there to run specific scientific tests
encountered some sort of a problem that would not allow their equipment to work properly.
They brought out a group of astrologers because they wanted to map the sky above this,
what they're calling the triangle. And so they bring these guys in with all this heavy,
super complicated equipment to look to map out the skies. And for some reason,
when they pointed their cameras, these big telescope cameras into this mile high area,
they could not get a reading on any of the stars. It would not allow them to read the stars.
So every time some event took place, there was something that was blocking it that would not
allow it to happen. I said, this has never happened before. This has never happened before. I
don't know what's going on. I can't, I'm trying to get a copy of the, of the stars so that the,
the telescope knows where we're at and it'll recognize all the different constellations and
the different planets. It takes me about five minutes to calibrate it. Now, if you moved it
away from this area that they were videotaping, he goes, I didn't have any problem. I could get a
lock on it right off the gate, but it was like there was something blocking the actual video there.
So again, Travis being there is trying to figure out, Hey, what is causing this? So the phenomenon
continued to get bigger and bigger until they ended up doing some ground penetrating radar and found
something underground. They didn't know what they were looking at. They decided, Hey, we're going to,
we're going to start drilling. So they decided to drill into the Mesa. As they drill into the Mesa,
these strange phenomenons begin to happen. And they pulled out this metal and they initially
didn't know what the metal was, but they pulled it out in chunks, hundreds of pieces. And they
decided to send them off to one of the universities there, then Utah to have a metallurgy done to
figure out what it was. And the guy came back and said, dude, it's two things. It looks like a high
grade semi semiconductor material, but it also looks like the same stuff they put on the outside
of the shuttle so that when it, when it reenters the atmosphere, it doesn't burn up. He goes,
so what would this be doing under a Mesa in the desert in the middle of nowhere? So that the
plot just continues to get thicker and thicker with regards to what they're looking at. They also
they also viewed went back and viewed the film and saw this light that moved across the sky.
And of course, the first question that came in is that a portal? What is that thing moving
across the sky that has it's just a white light? Looks like it's flickering. And they,
they all nobody could see it when they were originally just watching the video itself.
They had to go back and review the actual video to see it on there. So whether it had cloaked
itself or was hiding in some sort of a manner where they couldn't see it originally. But these
are all the events that are taking place on Skinwalker Ranch that continue to mystify everybody.
When you go back and you look at the original group that that owned the ranch with the Shermans,
and then when Bigelow came into the picture, they worked on there for 20 years. Now there's
some stories that they pulled up some metal. Bigelow owned it for 20 years for 20 years and
worked with the federal government to try to figure out what was going on there. And I'm not
sure what the process were for him to sell it from from. Well, he only bought it for 200 grand.
I'm sure he sold it for millions. And again, yeah, that never actually comes up. But I'm sure,
listen, this was something that was phenomenal. Whoever wanted to learn more about this was
going to buy the property. So obviously, I think he probably knew that as well. So I'm sure he
probably got it. I'm sure he got his investment. Here's the thing about people like him,
the guy and this also ties into the TV show. Okay, the billionaire who bought Skinwalker
Ranch from Bigelow, whoever owns it now. He's a fucking star of the show. And that's the thing
about people with money. If they're not already in the spotlight, or they don't have attention,
they want attention. Like, sure, they're rich. Now they want to be famous. So if I'm a fucking
millionaire, and I'm like, Oh, I want some more, you know, I want some more attention. I want a
TV show. I want to be I want to buy this. This will be a perfect opportunity for me to get famous.
Sure. So I'll buy Skinwalker Ranch. And now I'll have a fucking deal with Discovery. And I'll be
the star of the TV shows and the guys in every fucking episode of the show. Oh, yeah. Now listen,
Brian Frugl, he's the owner. He's a real estate mogul, big, big time, obviously in Utah.
His thing is they actually do a bio on him in the show when it first started, because his interest
was like so many others. Hey, what is it with this phenomenon? Where do we come from? You know,
who's visiting us? And so he was I was really more interested in the dynamics of the events that
took place on the Sherman Ranch. You know, when you have he had a nephew that came down.
And on the race, this was I'm going to say probably the second year they had the show on.
And he said that he was there with his uncle one night, they were walking the dogs,
because it was probably dusk, just the sun had just gone down. And these orbs came down off the
mountain. He said they stopped and watched him come down. They were blue orbs. And he said as
they came down, they went across the top of the trees. Well, the dogs kind of wigged out. And
all the dogs all of a sudden took off after him and ran into this wooded area, I don't know,
a couple of hundred yards away from where they were at. And he said, we heard the dogs yelp.
And then nothing, we didn't see the lights come back out, nothing happened. So we we looked for
him that night, couldn't find him, came back the next morning. And something had crushed them into
the ground. And there was a burn mark all the way around them. But all three of the dogs have been
crushed into the ground. And the guy that was there said, Is this what they told you? And he
goes, I was there the day this happened. He goes, I was actually living with my uncle when this event
took place. Because this wasn't something he told me. This is something I saw. So it was those
events that began and they started to look at this blue, this blue orb as being malevolent.
They said this thing was evil, it was mean. They got that feeling from the first time it came down
from the hills as to what it was. But it's coming off the Mesa. So everything gets directed back
to the Mesa. They start looking at, you know, what's under the Mesa. They had brought back one of
the security guards that had worked for Bigelow originally. And he worked there for six years.
And he told the guys, Hey, there's a cave over here on the side of this Mesa
that we don't know where it went. There was some strange sounds coming out of it. We never got
involved into it. Now, the nice thing about this new group with Brandon Fugel's group
is that they're bringing these meters with them that read the different
what's the word I'm looking for the difference in energy coming out of some of these holes. They
don't know what's going on. Travis Taylor got burned. And these were actually burns on his face
that occurred from looking into an old well to the other guys there that were standing outside
the well. One of them during the investigation got lightheaded and almost passed out. They grabbed
them to the side and they brought him over about two months later. They played a frequency and
there's this ongoing frequency that seems to be on the ranch. It's 1.6 gigahertz and they're trying
to figure out what runs at 1.6 gigahertz on the planet that would be making this sound.
And they've come up to the conclusion that they can't find absolutely anything that operates off
of 1.6 gigahertz. So what they did was they went to a radio station and they said every time we
play this, something happens in the air. We get these UAPs all over the place. So they went to
the radio station and had them blasted over the internet. And that night he goes things went crazy
in Utah. He goes so they were trying now they can make these things happen almost at random because
so now we take this 1.6 gigahertz and he was talking to another one of these other astrophysicists
about what were the chances that this could be a signal from space. And so they sat down and
talked to you because if this is a signal from space, it'll always come from the same location
all the time because you also want to have anybody else that's in the area aware of this
so they also can listen for it. So it's not just you getting it, it's them as well. And so
he started going through and trying to figure out what equipment on the planet
works at 1.6 gigahertz and there's nothing he goes microwave ovens don't do that
airplanes don't do that there's no communications that do that everything even though puts on an
RF signal again even microwave ovens. There was still something odd about this 1.6 gigahertz
and every time they play it now something shows up in the sky. And it's just it looks like the
last night they identified it as a tic-tac. They said hey dude that's what the tic-tac looks like
and this was two former Navy communication guys that were on the boats with David Fraver when
they saw that tic-tac that night and they said we watched it for over two hours because I was
lucky because I just happened to be up in the the primary command center for the ship and he goes
but once they first saw these they lock everything down he goes so I got to witness the whole thing
from beginning to end and trying to figure out what the hell these things were around the ship
because people say well why didn't you shoot him down but you know what he goes we didn't we
feel like that there was a violence going on we didn't there was nothing locking on there wasn't
any weapons being used he goes so we just wanted to more or less look over and try to figure out
what the hell are we looking at here so as as as more and more people get involved with especially
on the scientific level that the questions get bigger and bigger so the skinwalker right range
right now dude every time they play this 1.6 gigahertz something happens in the sky so they're
trying to again really understand what this frequency is you know what what does it bring
into the forefront why do these things keep responding to it this way well skinwalker
ranch the weird thing is is that like now you're connecting UFOs with demons sure because the skin
what like the legend of skinwalker ranch was these two indian tribes right the youths the youths in
the navajos yeah youths in the navajos and what was the story with them uh the the youths navajo
were had a a ongoing battle and i want to say i believe it was because the navajos were actually
working with the americans at the time they were helping them understand we know what what the
lane was all about and the youths did not like that at all they did not like that so the the the uh
navajos excuse me it's the other way around the youths were working with the government and the
navajos didn't like that so they put a curse on these guys and that's what it consisted of is this
the skinwalker thing that has the ability to turn i guess from a human to an animal and it
seems to go most likely like a wolf and even on during skinwalker he said they had found these
huge footprints that were up on them on the uh up on the mesa and he said the strange thing was
that they followed the wood tracks till it turned into footprints and the guy said i'm not saying
that this thing turned back into a human entity but where did the footprints of the wolf go versus
where these footprints of the humans came from so again just another question that gets thrown
up so make you say well wait a minute and i i don't i mean here's the here's the situation when you
look at uh exhibition bigfoot when you look at um the skinwalker ranch and you're looking at the
players who are trying to figure out what's going on i listen i believe all these folks now could there
you know be something going on in the network side where they're actually playing games of
making wood knocks or making these adventures i would say okay that's possible but i don't
think it's likely so i think when you start looking at again what these guys are trying to
investigate it you know it's all related whether it's um UFO on in there whether it's the skinwalker
whether it's portals uh they all seem to be related and especially right now i mean again
we've got over 20 shows that are on the programs right now dealing with all this well it's so fun
and it's so fascinating and it's so entertaining so there i mean there's money in it you have a
fucking i mean you have a built-in audience for this kind of stuff especially the more wild the
more outrageous and the more over the top you make it it just it just it just makes it that
much more exciting and the thing the thing about it is it's just like i'm i'm so interested in the
stigma that revolves around it and especially when it comes to UFOs because you know so many
people when you start talking about UFOs like i could have a conversation with somebody about
this about this topic and then once they start talking about demons and bigfoot it's like whoa
you're losing so much credibility and the thing about it is i was just watching a video at the
other day or yesterday with this guy um what the fuck was his name uh mother fucker he was talking
oh how put off he how put off was a guy who founded that organization called to the stars
okay with the guy from blink 182 oh okay okay i'm familiar with that yep and he was talking about
um the government's weaponization of stigma and how the government will manipulate certain
government organizations will manipulate stigma to
de-incentivize people from doing taking the scientific undertaking of looking into certain
things interesting so they will use certain stigma or quote quote quote quote conspiracy theories
to detract people from certain subjects because it could be a security risk or a national security
risk sure um again if you think about just real quick when they talked about the these bigfoot
being have the ability to cloak themselves i mean can you imagine a combat team that was able
to cloak themselves running into a conflict i mean the havoc they could create and problems
they could cause would be endless i mean there's nothing you could really even do about it right
right so so yeah when you start to look at that bigger picture you know that's what again when
i saw this whole thing like bigfoot with with uh in the scientific communities involved with this
and you know the federal government even in this in this in this exhibition bigfoot one of the
interesting things is as they're out there looking for this they're gonna they're gonna uh this is an
upstate in uh california up uh northern california and they find these um some sort of uh uh covered
manhole that's locked down that allows that takes them underground and there's all this uh
evidence that points to the federal government back in the late fifties early sixties
that were studying these phenomena with bigfoot and they were actually out there in these
facilities and they find these things in the middle of nowhere but they can't get into it
they're afraid to start digging into them and you know tear the top off not understand what
they're getting into but there's definitely these federal facilities that are out there that are
underground and that are um or were looking at this phenomenon as a real event across the board
so even when you look at like like if you look at bigelow his claim to fame was really on nids
nids was the the national institute of discover and science and they were able to take a serious
look again using trying to use the the scientific approach to figure out what was really going on
skinwalker ranch and i'm sure they're aware of things when bigelow left um he didn't say you
know hey this is what we found this is what he just literally sold the ranch walked away and i don't
think uh why they haven't met yet bigelow and um fugal to you know do a comparison of notes
to going hey what did you guys find versus what where we're at now trying to find and the scientific's
approach is so much differently now with travis taylor um who's the physicist and phd really trying
to figure out the communication side of this whole thing so the 1.6 gigahertz became a question
this phenomenon that was happening over which which they refer to as the triangle
is you know a big question mark what is going on a mile above this and why can't they um because
every time we get ready to do an experiment there something goes wrong the equipment stops working
and he goes and these guys that are out here doing this are saying hey we've never had problems
with our equipment before batteries are going dead um they brought a huge tractor out there to dig an
area this was a monster tractor they put a brand new you know like a car battery inside this vehicle
it was a diesel big diesel unit and within 10 minutes the battery had died and the vehicle was no
longer obviously couldn't run because of the fact so again skinwalker ranch just question mark after
question mark after question mark is to really what's going on and so i look at this from a
perspective of of fugal um really just wanting to find out at the end of the day what is this
really all about i don't know i mean if they came out tomorrow and said hey listen there's a spaceship
that's been buried here it's been a base for you know years and years and years i don't know what
that does for us across the board um does it help benefit mankind i mean are we gonna you know have
free power now because of it and i think that's the big question as well why why are they looking for
these what's the end game you know where do we what do we plan on i mean if we found out tomorrow
hey yep the aliens have been coming here you know it's part of our culture it's what they do
i mean do we make friends with them do we do we coexist with them in a way that we are working
for them or are we already not working for them if you were running the united states if you're
ahead of the cia and you knew that aliens were visiting us what would you want the the citizens
of the country and the world to think well you know i how would you try to would you try to disguise
it would you want the people to know i wonder what you would do if you were in power sure well
you know i think too that the fear was that the people were going to think that the bible wasn't
relative if they found out that aliens were real and that you know chaos would occur civilly
throughout mankind and people would well there's no reason for me to be good now so i can be bad
i don't necessarily think that's the true i think people are more enlightened today and more spiritual
than more religious um and i think at the end of the day most people tend to look at it from that
perspective um there were a couple of gentlemen and i can't think of their names off the top of my
head they were in musco muscoluga let's say in that right uh louisiana they were fishing one night
and they actually had this alien ship land behind them they initially thought was the police department
because they were they were fishing on a no trespassing lot because we thought was the cops
pulling up so we thought we were in trouble so as we turned around it was these actually alien
beings that were floating down to them and took brought them back on the ship and after this whole
event took place though the younger of the two guys said he called the actual sheriff's office
and was reporting this and the older guy was like dude you're nuts they're never going to believe
this story there's no way so they came down and got him that night and brought him back to the
the station they separated the guys they interviewed them initially separately and both of them said
the same thing and then they put them in a room together but what the guys didn't know is they
stuck a recorder in there with them so they got to hear these guys talk about hey these guys don't
believe us they think we're nuts you know they'll ask them if we're drinking and they ran
experiments on them they said they stuck things up their nose they were looking at different parts
of their bodies they were looking at bone density they were trying to figure out the nervous system
he talked about being that came up and actually was able to stick her fingers down his throat
which made him bleed to look for something because I don't know what they were looking for
through my sinuses he actually thought that they had planted a some sort of a tracking device on him
but he was real adamant about wanting to even talk about it because it said it sounds so it
sounds just so unbelievable that you know again who's going to believe my story Barney Hill said
that they like extracted semen from him and it seems to be a common theme you know when you look
at the animal mutilations some of the guys now believe that they're taking the blood from the
cows I guess that it's very similar to our blood and they're using that for purposes of regenerating
whatever but that's what it comes back down to the DNA process so when you say I didn't I didn't
realize this your DNA is really easy to manipulate um I had a friend of mine who said oh well if you
eat certain foods this can change your DNA and I thought well that's that's a really like what
listen I said the same thing I didn't think that could happen that easy and then
what foods did he say I could manipulate um it was this was actually a particular type of food
that a girl was eating because she had very fair skin and we keep getting burned and she ate this
particular food stopped that from happening and when they went in and looked at her system they
actually figured out her DNA had changed so I thought that was a joke initially I'm not like
no listen man take some sort of uh you know a scientific process to make your DNA DNA change
not just a simple eating habits change so food can die or can change your your DNA across the
board and I started to research that a little bit to kind of wait a minute is that a true statement
only to find out is a true statement so you know again I think that understanding of food can
change your DNA and we're dealing with creatures that are trying to I don't know improve us
is that what they've always been here to do are there you know if you look at if you look at
Germany Germany kind of had the same history as America they had a crash there in the black
forest the UFO crashed here in the black forest I do believe that Hitler recovered that and brought
that back in if you take a look at where Germany was as far as the technology wise I mean they had
already come out with guided missile systems they had two different types they had the v1 the v2
rockets the us couldn't we were still trying to get rockets off the ground I just got done watching
a huge bit a long video on Operation Paperclip well there you go there you go and they're dealing
with this very subject they're they came up with a flying wing they had that way before us
we we could launch Goddard was able to launch a rocket straight up you know the Germans were
sending these buzz bombs over Britain and just bombing the shit out of them so at the end of the
day people started to kind of look at this well wait a minute where are the Germans coming from
it's odd too where did Hitler come up with blonde hair blue eyed people that he wanted
everybody else to have this this look if you look at the the tall whites what they're called
they have blonde hair blue eyes very Nordic looking and they're kind of being pushed in
the same category I try to figure out why Hitler Hitler didn't have blonde hair blue eyes
he wasn't from a blonde hair blue white family you know I'm saying so where did that come from
where'd the flying wing come from we have that technology today when we were runner von Braun
here was a major in the the Nazi military once we brought him back here 11 years later we went to
the moon right so he was able to allegedly allegedly go like I say well that's a whole other conversation
but it's watching what what he said was able to do now one of the things he brought to the table
were gyros the US never used gyros before we didn't have them on any of our vehicles and this was one
of the things that allowed this vehicle to turn so as they launched it off it could actually you
know make those corrections so that flew over Britain and the subject matter was or the the
basic function of the the rocket was to do is run out of gas and then it would you know obviously
rut flying to the city somewhere and and we usually kill a mass amount of civilians
yeah I mean when you get into the whole I think part of the the crazy thing about the technology
that we got from the Germans is like like specifically there was one ship I forget what
it was called I think it was called like the one wing right it looked exactly like the stealth
bomber absolutely it was the same exact thing when they were so far ahead I mean there's no tail
on this thing they were so far ahead of what everybody else was doing across the board which
I can only believe was due to alien technology now did I mean I from what I understand now the
Chinese have been extremely quiet they just matter of fact they just finally released that they
actually have pyramids in China and they're starting to study yes they did so which they
China had never let anything like that how long ago did this come out probably five months ago six
months ago huh and that was the first time that China had really released any information with
regards to their history and they were it was guarded information as well so you start to see
well wait a minute if you had pyramids in China they had pyramids in Egypt they had pyramids in
South America yet these these organizations or these groups of people had no way of communicating
with one another I mean it obviously tells you there's something bigger going on now where the
you know pyramids used for power consumption where they used as a burial mound they're still trying
to figure that out there's I think there's a large percentage of the scientific community now
that believe that these were some sort of either for communications purposes or power purposes
the weird thing about the pyramids too is like building them and the connection with with sound
and like I was telling you I was talking I was watching this thing about this whole thing about
sound and how everything is tied into sound and sound is absolutely tied into the creation of
everything and what was that place again called in Florida where the guy had these giant structures
in South Florida it was called the Coral Castle the Coral Castle and and the Coral Castle is similar
to someone like the big model that's around the world like how did this guy this thing was apparently
built a long time ago I want to say it was in the 30s in the 30s he was initially on the on the
east coast of Florida on this is a real small guy was a German guy from from Europe and had
built the original Coral Castle and like I say I want to see over by probably Melbourne somewhere
in that area and he during the process of this had had a crush on a 16 year old girl which back
in the day obviously was not going to be tolerated and I think the city that where he initially
built this turned out against him and they didn't like him now and they felt him as a threat so he
ended up having to move the Coral Castle to Homestead Florida and in dealing with the people
who were hauling these stones on this guy weighed 135 pounds he had didn't have any other workers
that worked with him he did this all on his own he would cut chunks of coral out of the ground
that were you know three four five tons and used a what when you look at the picture one of the
pictures they show is a it's a tripod it's set up over this huge massive rock oh this is it
oh there you go so as they as they set it up over this rock the one interesting thing is
he said that it's still in place so they're cutting it out of the ground and the and the
the guy who was showing you the picture said I know you're looking at this going like oh this
is how he moved those but the problem is how did he get the rope around underneath this
two-ton piece of block that he was trying to pull up yeah that's pretty wild this was apparently
built in this is allegedly built in the 30s you said I believe so I believe it was in 30s late 30s
so if you look to the right over there that that right there there that that centerpiece now this
is what would really kind of got more attention because that centerpiece the bearings that eventually
worn out they had to take that thing apart oh that thing spins spins that actually spins around holy
dude you can just move with your hand so what they did was they had to bring in a special truck
to lift the stone off the top so that they could get to the bearings on the both the bottom and
the top of that stone and he goes we almost couldn't do it because the stone was so heavy and so big
we didn't have any equipment that could pick it up so how did this guy move this here place it in
that location and this this individual that did this claimed that he knew the way that the Egyptians
were using mag some sort of magnetism to move these rocks and one of the guys was actually
moving it was a truck driver he said I would leave my truck there overnight and come back
the next morning the stone would already be loaded on the truck because I don't know how he got it
on there it wasn't like he had a you know a forklift he goes so I would just pick it up drive it to
homestead or drop the trailer and then he would do whatever he does with it so he actually showed
a device I saw one here a couple of weeks back where they actually had a device that he said was
creating this magnetism and this is how he said that he believed this is how the Egyptians were
moving all the stuff through magnetism is that the guy right there that's him right there that's him
right there the modern day stonehenge of florida I mean it's an amazing dude when you start to look
at it and think of what did this guy do and how could he possibly move these look how little he is
yeah wild but again it's just one of those things where it makes you scratch your head
and go well you know again I wish we obviously he could have leveled with us and said hey this is
how I'm actually doing this because we'll take a lot of the guesswork out of it but he had to have
some sort of means to move all this these rocks they're massive I highly recommend
too if you ever get a chance to go down to homestead you're since we're here in Florida
check it out it's really amazing didn't did you see that uh the georgia guide stones would
happen to those things I was shocked I absolutely shocked that somebody destroyed that um and and
you know the georgia guide stones I don't know if you ever follow the the gentleman who put those up
supposedly he went to a banker and had this banker he said hey I got all this money I want to set
this aside and what they did was they put I believe it was in seven different languages on the
guide stones of all the things that needed to happen in order to keep the earth running
efficiently there's just too many people on the planet right now which I tend to believe if you
look at you know especially with the way processed food is today um it's funny just a real quick note
on that I had was over a friend of mine's and we were going to eat some plant-based food and it was
in a real nice restaurant and I have to know the owner of the restaurant so we sat down and started
eating some plant-based food and actually man it was actually really really good I said damn
do this burger is really really good around here huh um yeah it's here in central florida I don't
want to because the report's not going to be good when I'm about to say so I don't want to torpedo
him because he had me off to the side but I said hey man this is really good now again it's plant-based
and he looked at me and said hey don't eat this all the time it's not good for you and I was like
what so anyway kind of off track well I wasn't good for you um well the first thing I asked him
I said so you're that and that's all he served it was all straight up um vegan vegan type food food
and um so I was curious I said so how do they grow this stuff I mean what's what's it coming from
and that's when he said he turned to me and go say listen just it's done through a process in the plant
so it's not good for you don't eat it all the time and I'm like that's not kind of the message
I'm getting I'm getting that hey we should all be eating more plant-based food this way but obviously
coming from him as the owner of the restaurant which was odd because he turned to me and said to me
hey don't eat this all the time well it depends I mean some of this some of this stuff is like
filled with packed with soy and shit like that that can really fuck up again man once yeah if it's
based on chemicals I'm you know you're scratching your head anyway yeah and a lot of it's process
a lot of the stuff that stuff is processed and that's what the the concern was with him this is
all processed food you don't cross the border processed food no matter what it is even if it's
fucking no matter if it's fake meat if it's factory farmed meat it no matter what it is
the processing part of it's terrible for you horrible um a friend of mine my friend Mikey
who's been a vegetarian his whole life uh I just fed him a steak for the first time I think I
think it might have been the first time in his life the other night wow he's like dude I want to
try a steak he's been watching too many podcasts right and uh he's like now he wants to go to
bascoms to get like a real Kobe beef steak nice now he's like all into fucking trying new fancy
steaks and stuff like that um but yeah it's interesting um there's a so there's so much you
get so much more from like natural foods whether it be plant-based or not whether it be animal-based
or plant-based whether you're eating a fucking steak or or a fucking salad I mean you don't
want shit that's processed not at all we do it's funny this is going back probably seven eight
maybe ten years ago and some of my conspiracy friends they were they they worked on real high-end
cars um and fixing damaged parts broken windshields for ferrari's and maserati's and whatnot and we
were around having this talk one day they were getting ready to go to uh I think it was Mexico
and watch um the butterflies uh these are the um the monarch butterflies fly in and they come in
by the millions every year and they're you know they said hey we want to go there and watch them
fly in when they got there um there was like one tree that had the monarch on there and they were
kind of all scratching their head trying to figure out hey what the hell happened so while they were
staying there having a conversation a park ranger happened to drive up and they said to the ranger
hey we're kind of curious as we're all we're all the monarchs this year and the guy said well I think
with all this new um uh foods that they're making now they're growing that uh what are they called
the omg's om uh oh the stuff that they're putting in foods uh yeah yeah just the process side of it
yeah and he said so what's happening is the the grain is designed to keep bugs off of it
he goes so what's happening is the butterflies are stopping on their trip here to eat that and
it's killing them just about two days ago now this is seven or eight years ago two days ago I
heard that the monarch butterflies were in jeopardy of being going extinct really which was kind of
interesting you just kind of added to that story that I heard from seven or eight years ago yeah
again pointing to the food if you think about like Crohn's disease um when I first got out of the
military my secretary her son had Crohn's disease but nobody knew what it was um they knew that it
had something to do with food and your digestive tract um in her case she said that what happens
with Crohn's is it actually affects the intestines and perforates it and makes holes in it and it
starts leaking in your body so obviously to have that right leaking your body is not a good thing
so but they didn't understand why today instead of correcting the food and saying hey listen let's
figure out what food is not good for you they're giving you all these meds you're just palm of
meds on you you know so now they've got doctors that's all they do is Crohn's disease and lower
bowel and all these things when I think if we just go back and look at the food that's going to be the
real you know the problem with everything that's going on again too many people on the planet go
back and look at the history of mankind and there's more people on the planet right now than ever in
the history of man um which kind of goes full circle now I believe that this is going to kind of
get off track here a little bit but if I believe that when you look at the the overall timing of man
and let's just say the planet earth is a living entity and the one primary plant on the the planet
is the tree when you look at what makes trees grow carbon dioxide
it's funny we have created more carbon dioxide as humans now on the planet than any other race of
species of animals on the planet and I think that when the trees need this to survive that's why
we've been able to live this long we're like a bacteria on the planet we tend to live near the
water and you know wherever it's convenient for us to live and I think that there's something tied
in with the with the trees if the planet is a living entity um and the trees are its lungs then
obviously you know you you want to stop everything you can of the the deforestation that's going on
let's say like in brazil or through south america even here in this country now um you can only deforest
areas a certain amount and then they stop you from you know cutting in that area have to replant trees
yeah so the process there's something that's involved with that again keeping the earth healthy
and so is this you know the other beings that are coming here are they trying to assist with
that process again they realize like orbs I think um orbs are generated by the planet I think they're
here I think they've always been here um my experience with these orbs is kind of weird because
even living here in Indian Rocks Beach Florida um if you go back and look at when the indigenous
people lived here there was something going on there were recording times that were happening here
and I went out one night it was probably two o'clock in the morning it was a real cool evening
and I saw this orb up on the sky but it was like it was playing on the wind it was a real breezy
night very cool night you can see every star out it was available and I initially went in the house
and grabbed my my my phone to come out because I wanted to record this so the problem with with
recording this aerial whatever it was this orb and I kind of did it as an example I put took my phone
and put it on a star that was stationary and if I moved my phone and I would have told you that
that's an orb and it's moving it looked like an actual orb because of the you understand what I'm
saying so yeah you can move your phone and make it look like it was really so my problem was how
could I film this thing as it moved through the sky um without looking like I'm chasing a star
and so I knew that what I had to do was I had to set the camera up so this thing would fly
through the frame right or something in the foreground bingo perspective bingo and so it kept
coming down kind of close to my neighbor's roof so I actually set the camera up and started videotaping
and sure enough this thing threw right through it right through the the uh the screen so I knew
that what I was looking at but it was seemed like it was having fun like it was playing on the wind
and this went on for 30 or 40 minutes a drone uh this was actually before drones none of that
the you listen you can hear a drone I when we had experiences with your drone uh we had listen we
had a fun experience with my drone dude we went to a shooting range and uh what what where was that
this was over in lithia in lithia here in florida um in the very very wooded area of florida heavily
wooded area not much going on there none in the middle of the wilderness by a huge body of water
though there was a huge body of water behind the shooting range which seems to be a constant theme
with these things and as we watched at that day now what the funny part was we were shooting this
was all video based on um learning to shoot guns and sort of some high activity with you know guns
and pitching uh and and and other events taking place out there because there's a range and initially
when I found this thing I saw it with my peripheral vision I was like what was that so I I went back
and kind of looked at that's when I contacted you and told you what frames I thought it was in and
you went back and kind of looked at it and I think the first thing you said to me is hey man who's
shooting at my drone dude it was crazy it looks like a golf ball and they're shooting right towards
my drone just like that dude I mean and you figure this when we when you initially got this thing
and it was above I think you were about a mile above us I could hear it but you couldn't see it
you couldn't see it at all the drone yeah you're right yeah I can hear it it's loud yeah but I couldn't
see it so wherever that that that I don't know cotton ball came from or that that orb was I want
to say almost two miles away looking at the video and when it came up it was attracted by the sound
of your I thought it was someone shooting at it at first that's what you said and I kind of chuckled
over that I said dude I couldn't even see it a mile up that's two miles away there's no way these
guys could have seen that now and would you be able to see if somebody shot at a drone that was that
high in the air would you be able to see the bullet no no way that thing that camera on that drone
shoots 24 frames per second so if you were to divide one second and 24 would you even I don't
know I don't know if you'd be able to see the bullet what no no you wouldn't be able to I mean
that or they would already found it who killed Kennedy you know right you'll see that thing in
the air so even with this event I kind of scratch my head and you and you go like what is this really
all about now I do believe and I I think I told you this the other day I looked at a partial video
and thought I saw another one of those in there I'd like to get that video back and go through that
with a fine-tooth comb yeah it's on one of my hard drives back there because I get it out I believe
there's more of those orbs on there what they are and watching other shows there's another show and I
have actually video on my phone where a guy sees this out in Arizona same remember you showed me
that yeah dude same exact thing on YouTube yep and what they did was they did the math on this
thing and this thing is moving at 3,500 miles an hour see if you can find something Jordan if you
go on YouTube and you and you search for something like a small white ball shooting towards drone
I don't know if you can find it but there's a number of events that are actually well let's
take this opportunity to pause because I gotta piss like a race horse oh yeah do that let's do that
okay cool this coffee is going right through me all right boom where were we what were we talking
about um we're just talking about the orbs in the that day that we were out there shooting oh yeah
yeah yeah and um again not thinking we're looking for anything paranormal anything unusual we're just
out shooting video of some guys shooting some guns at a range uh out of the middle of nowhere
and during the process of this thing I kind of noticed something and that's when I sent it to
you like hey what is this and I could pick it up I didn't have the obviously the equipment that you
have they can really look at this thing and when you pulled it up I think one of the first things
you said to me was hey who's shooting at my drone right and we taught I said dude you can't even see
your drone up that far that's something I don't know what that is so then I came out on a couple of
other shows uh which soon as I saw it I recognized it for what it was so you saw the exact same thing
on tv later like a couple years later correct it was definitely a couple years later um and it was
the same exact thing taken by a drone um and now I think there's two or three actually these drones
that have actually taken pictures or whatever these these I call them dirty cotton balls um but
whether they're they're orbs is there any sort of logical explanation of what it could be well
let me again do when I start thinking about this and I watch these orbs um I you know and again
on the beach one day uh down here in St. Pete uh we had some orange orbs come down the the water
line and we watched these things until they disappeared into the clouds um you know there was
some talk hey are these those uh those those Japanese uh lantern lanterns the problem was that
we had an onshore breeze and this a heavy breeze when in the evening hours along the water line
and this was running parallel to the shoreline probably 20 or 30 feet over the top and um I don't
I kind of view these orbs especially after that night I saw that one in the sky
that they're they're actually here on the planet I don't know whether they're taking care of the
planet I don't know whether they're in charge of of you know maintaining some sort of social order
on the planet but I do believe they're here for that reason um and I think that they kind of monitor
the health of the trees across the board now with that said there's obviously so many other
things that are going on but I think in the at the end of the day if we find out that the planet
earth is really a live entity or being um that would change our religion that would change what
we thought about who's coming here um we if you look at where gold comes from gold is not
gold does not happen uh on the planet earth it comes from space so you start to take into
consideration where gold comes from because I thought it was like processed like a diamond you
know it's here it's under tremendous pressure from the earth is it really come from space it really
comes from space that's scientifically fact absolutely there's no place that they they know
where it comes from or how it's produced on earth so when you look for them can you find that yeah
when you find when you look around and you like some of these shows I watched where they're mining
gold in in Alaska um the process of of running this material through a process of where they
cleanse it with the water and it filters off all of the light stuff and then the heavy materials
lift from the bottom they were talking because like my question was well why don't they ever
find like a you know a stone size piece of gold it's you know a four pound rock of gold
it just doesn't come like that it comes from space um it it is in minute you know material wise as
far as when you actually start mining it it's such a process of usually gold create usually gold is
created from platinum which has one less proton than gold or from mercury which has one more
proton than gold bombarding a platinum or mercury nucleus with neuron neutrons can knock off a can
knock off a neutron or add a new neutron which through natural radioactive decay can lead to gold
but where does it come from how oh how gold is formed on earth gold minerals form in hot rocks
in and around volcanoes so they form inside of rocks around volcanoes interesting that's the
first time I heard that so that's interesting but I think again when you take into consideration
all right let's just go with that let's just say that that they're coming from volcanoes
there are no volcanoes in South America there are no volcanoes in Alaska oh I take that back
there are volcanoes in South America and Central America is there yeah I'm pretty sure I'm okay that
was new and I know there's definitely there's definitely uh volcanoes in Alaska but you know
well listen I know that the Mayan the Mayan Indians had a shitload of gold unlike other metals that
form the earth's crust gold comes from now this one says gold comes from space stars are made
mostly of helium and hydrogen which provide light inside the star's core nuclear fusion
churns out energy as all the star as the star's life come to an end a massive stellar explosion
occurs known as a supernova uh so I guess it's found in both places it's found in the universe
and on earth so I like I say when you again start to take into consideration how much of it do you
need I mean when I started go back and look at from from South America where all the gold came
from where where's all the gold today if they're headed from back then the Spanish wanted it
so the other ones that came in the conquistadors came in and wiped out most of the Mayans
for that purpose alone because they wanted the gold so and again when you go back to the Anunnaki
the Anunnaki would eat the gold because they said there buys like a semiconductor and actually
improves electrical functions throughout your body which if you think about it I mean it sounds
like it could be true but does anyone test it? Well I mean I don't know anybody who wants to
eat their gold because they just pay that you know a shit ton of money for it so I'm gonna start
doing is grinding it up and eating it oh my god that's true but I mean again yeah but you could
eat it and then just like like shit into a bucket for a week there you go I don't want to do mine
that way but yeah they talk about like eating in powdered form too bingo and that was really what
it was all about eating in powdered form and I guess that's where the real benefit came for
the Anunnaki if that's truly what they did was eat the gold so what is this video right here this
is uh okay so this is a guy who had the the same exact experience we had with the white
bingo this is several years later and I just happened to be watching one of these shows
and this was the guy that popped up and and was showing what he had seen through his drone
show this to to tell me what it is because I can't tell what it is whatever this was was
traveling at a very high velocity so much so that in order to watch this video and appreciate it
you have to slow it down so that frame by frame you can see all right it's not a bird it's not a
plane I can't identify what it was it seems like a ball of light it appears to me like somebody's
trying to shoot down this drone so there I mean the same thing came up when he thought that somebody
was trying to shoot it down but again you know when you start doing the mathematics on this thing
it's moving too slow for a bullet to be able to bingo 3,500 miles an hour so this thing is whatever
it is again even so you can pick it up on camera 3,500 miles an hour how fast a bullet travels is
there saying no this is what they were saying this thing you're right here's traveling at 3,500 miles
an hour huh so they were showing the speed versus the time versus where it was at no way and well
do you think about the one we saw in that video I couldn't see it when it was just when you played
it naturally you could not see it right but if you go frame by frame you can clearly see it if it
was going 3,500 miles an hour would you even be able to see it in one 24th of a second I there's
there's the big question I mean that can't be that hard of a math problem for someone smart well
like I said we probably need to ask a few more questions on it but again the process of us seeing
that was again just a merely a lucky moment when I saw it with my peripheral vision right what the
hell was that wasn't looking for anything that was paranormal at all so that's what kind of added
the whole thing when I started to see that and I like I say I need to actually run back through
that again because I believe there are other events like that within the video that we just
didn't we weren't paying attention to because we weren't looking for that yeah I mean you can't see
it you can only see it when it gets in the close proximity of it like you can't tell where it's
coming from bingo but so there's nobody who's obviously there hasn't been enough cases of this
for someone to actually take a real look at it and try to figure out where it actually could
have came from like what's the realistic description no the one where I got to what the how fast was
moving was a guy's out in the desert and there's another group of guys were doing the same thing
they were in Arizona they were videotaping a desert and this this thing whatever it was came up out of
there out of the mountains and it was going one direction and changed directions and actually
went right by their their drone so that's when they did the mathematics and came up with it
3500 miles an hour but you could change direction or change direction it was like it like it could
hear I even I think with the day that we were out there shooting yours um that that thing kind
made a turn because it could hear it and I don't know whether it was more interested in what it was
but to be able to you know visually see that thing and not have really an explanation as to what
it is or was you know again just adds to the whole paranormal is it is it earth related is this a
an extraterrestrial event I mean what is it it's real um there's two or three videos now that have
this on there we could never see these before guys started putting drones up I've never seen
these talked about before you know you hear about orbs and uh things that go on especially you know
with these ring doorbells and you can see some of the orbs that are on the ring doorbells and you
try to figure out what you're looking at but these events here during the day that are taking place
and that you're uh you know you pick them up accidentally like we did um to me just adds more
to the question of hey what the hell are we really looking at here what's really going on on the
planet at the end of the day because uh obviously these events are real yeah there's something going
on there's definitely something weird but I mean I don't know it could it could be something it could
be some a natural thing I mean listen obviously it could be anything at that point for sure um
I I mean it's not impossible for it to be like some sort of natural phenomena some sort of like
light phenomena or I still don't understand why we wouldn't see it more I mean okay look at this so
when bullets fly through the air they do they do so at amazing speeds the fastest bullet travels more
than 2600 feet per second the equivalent to over uh 1800 miles per hour to put that in
perspective it's amazing it's uh amazing to realize that bullets travel over twice the speed of sound
so there's no way that you could get even one frame like there's no one you can't see a bullet
traveling unless you shoot it with a high high speed camera that shoots like thousands of frames
bingo bingo so the drone would not have captured anything like that no no like it it's traveling
way slower and again like I say when you when you do the math on the first ones that when the
guys talk about again 3500 miles an hour that was those guys that one that we're looking at I maybe
you can travel faster than that because we couldn't see it I don't know what you know how we just got
lucky and picked up on that thing again that's why I say I like to go back through that again and
just kind of thumb through that video and see if there's anything else on there that we missed
uh because it's all it's obviously relevant to what's going on I mean when you're taking
to consideration dude there's no way you can have 20 different shows on from UFOs to unexplained
information the Alaskan Triangle you know got American Mysteries Expedition Bigfoot Legend of
Bigfoot uh Black Files classified they all bring something to the UFO to the forefront are there
any volcanoes in South America or Central America can you find that yeah ask that question because
I know there's a lot of gold mines in that area like there's a lot a lot of gold mines especially
and I don't think of I don't think of that area as being a gold producing country you know across
the board yet listen if you go back and look at the history there's a lot of gold there you know
Mexico there's a lot of lithium mines in Mexico interesting that I don't I just had a guy on
here Luis Chaparro who reports the what is that called the ma the maipo volcano Spanish volcano
maipos uh volcanic peak in central in the central and Andes mountains South America okay chili
Argentina yeah uh oh shit more than 3000 volcanoes in Latin America and South America wow okay I had
no idea 14 of these volcanoes are active fucking shitload of volcanoes down there so that's crazy
I didn't I just learned something new didn't have no idea those were down there in that kind of number
but again so is it is it the volcanoes that make the gold or is it coming from space
it's both apparently according to the internet yeah um but yeah no there's a ton of lithium
mines in Mexico and lithium mines being bought by China interesting China is doing a lot of
business in Mexico dude let me tell you something it's it's interesting you just said that you
know one of the things that I had heard initially about Iraq and Afghanistan was that they have
a huge deposit of lithium there and this was going back probably a year ago again to a buddy
man who's kind of a conspiracy guy he's a he's a he's in the he's in the military um and he said
something interesting we were talking about the lithium that was there and he goes oh yeah
the powers to be that are running the world have told the US to get out of Afghanistan because
that lithium belongs to China which was interesting when he said that so I didn't I was like
there's lithium in Afghanistan he goes dude there is so much lithium in Afghanistan so
what powers would tell anybody hey you guys are done pack it up he kept saying the world bank the
world bank I don't know what that really means on the world bank but he said there was key individuals
that were making decisions and the US was not to get near that lithium that was going to all go to
China yeah we were told to get out of Afghanistan which was interesting I don't know how true it
is but it's interesting and then when you talk to others about the lithium you start doing research
on it well sure enough the lithium is there for sure no doubt about it and China is going to
lead the way with regard to the lithium because they're going to be with the Russians now I guess
well they're doing a lot of business in Mexico they're buying lithium mines and they're partnering
with the cartels in Mexico and the cartels are sort of like secure being their security for these
mines and the cartels are making a lot of money doing business with China so in addition to that
um the cartels are sending a hundred percent of the fentanyl to Mexico wow and on top of that so
all of the fentanyl think of all the drugs that that the Mexican cartels not not just drugs but
everything from avocados to ammunition to drugs sure all of the business that anything that's
illegal is automatically business for the car is money for the cartels absolutely so the cartels
they're getting not only their fentanyl from China but China is sending the chemists
to directly to Mexico and teaching them how to create how to produce and how to manufacture the
fentanyl I'm sure that their labor charges for labor in Mexico are very very cheap so I'm sure
that's a great idea yeah and well the only country that is dealing with this fentanyl epidemic of
tons of people dying from fentanyl is America they're not they're not selling fentanyl to any
other countries but the United States and all the fentanyl is coming from China and see I mean
look what look at the damage it does I mean now of course just I look at this a couple different
ways we all know how bad fentanyl is I mean I haven't read one good article says hey if you do fentanyl
dude you're going to you're going to Mexico tomorrow for a vacation in a great time it's always
leads right to death when we started talking about fentanyl here in Florida the video the cops just
the guy touches the fentanyl absolutely I'm actually fucking passes out almost dies almost dies
because of it and when you look at what fentanyl does which is unusual fentanyl has the ability to
penetrate the brainstem and what it does is it confuses your body on how much oxygen is actually
in your lungs so it can't tell whether you've got too much or not enough so what it does is it makes
you stop breathing so we all seem to know that why would you want to take fentanyl so somebody
said well they're putting fentanyl in cannabis I said wait a minute so they're going to buy fentanyl
there's a force on that yeah to sell you cannabis is laced with fentanyl I said that doesn't make
any sense because you're not going to make your money off the fentanyl you're going to kill people
first of all they're going to come back and buy your cannabis anymore exactly so it's odd to
me that that would even be a thing but yet in Florida in Manatee County this is going back a
couple of years ago they had to open up a second morgue because with so many people dying from it
and it makes you scratch your head I mean I don't know anybody he goes hey yeah I've been a you know
fentanyl user for five years now and I'm more successful now in my life and my family and
everything I'm doing you know I'm saying nobody says that right so when you you figured you buy
the fentanyl and you're at a gas station you've got your kids in the car and you can't wait to get
home to do whatever it is you're going to do and then you end up overdosing there in the in the
parking lot obviously law enforcement carries a lot of the product that will wake you up what's it
called I can't think of the name of it now yet but all of this the sheriff's office carry it all of
the fire departments carry it here the emt's carry it so that if you have an overdose they can
hit you with this and this will revive you and save your life like an epinephrine thing yeah it's
just like that what's that what's called narkin narkin narkin okay yeah there you go so and of
course everybody carries that here in the state of florida with them for the the event that you
end up overdosing on this stuff is that the thing that you jam into your heart nope this is actually
something they can breathe it in through their nostrils oh take it through your nose now they do
have an injectable as well because obviously if you're if you're unresponsive and you're passed out
they can they just come injectable so they can't hit you with a needle on it as well yeah no so that
the the fentanyl is become a replacement for heroin they're using it's a more of it's a more
economic substitute for heroin so they're cutting that these pills these these different opioids and
things like that with and pure heroin with this fentanyl and that's how you know a lot of people
are overdosing I mean there's reports of it being like you know being in cocaine or being in weed
which is kind of you know those reports are very weird I feel like that those are mostly like low
level drug dealers that are selling the low level drug dealers the street drug dealers are the guys
that are selling heroin and cocaine and weed the high level guys are only they're not selling heroin
the people that are buying heroin are more like street people see not that mean in florida now if
you sell somebody a drug like fentanyl and it kills them and they can trace it back to you they
bought definitely they're gonna charge you with murder so that's gonna change a lot of the attitudes
here in florida I think there's already been five or six people who've been arrested for that
they'll be made examples of and I think other people who are dealing in drugs will start to take
notice of that as well and I think that's what will make the fentanyl thing go away completely
well we'll make the the cartels I mean the problem is is is the cartels fucking trafficking all the
stuff into the United States there's so much money in it oh sure and with the borders there you know
the cartel they make eight thousand dollars per person that they fucking can smuggle the human
trafficking coyotes can bring across the borders yep they bring people in the United States eight
grand a pop for that showing you how bad people want to get into this country and they asked el chopo
al chop el chopo said um in an interview I don't know who it was with maybe it was with this attorney
but they they asked him like what he thought the look what are the what is the way what is the best
easiest way to get rid of the cartel problem he said it's just it's easy it's government it's
governmental policy legalizing certain things absolutely we'll run them right out of business
that way right listen I think at the end of the day listen legalized drugs across the board
is it a smart idea I'm not really sure but we all know that fentanyl is not good we know that
heroin's not good we know that right we know that yet you know smart people know that yet
everyone tends to not pay attention to that when we continue to thin the herd it being illegal
obviously isn't stopping anything no no so why not just make it legal at least now you can put it
into a perspective of you can manage these people so that they don't do overdoses they
don't kill themselves they're kind of doing this in New York right now with methanol or not methanol
with heroin and allowing them to use a drug that's similar to heroin called yeah I've heard of this
you're up too yeah anyway they they were allowed to use this and to help them wean off the actual
drug itself but it's not working because people are just getting hooked on this new drug and it's
not nearly I guess is bad for you at the end of the day I guess it can't stop your heart you know
stop you from breathing but at the end of the day it's still listen I'm not reading any good stories
like oh yeah this guy you know just got his degree he's a PhD now and he's also hooked on fentanyl
right so I think if you if you listen we legalize it well we and of course I hate to sound so brutal
about but if we thin the herd those individuals will no longer be on the planet we don't have to
worry about that I know some people want to you know embrace everybody and help everybody and
listen at the end of the day I I understand but listen it just doesn't work that way unfortunately
well the thing with overpopulation is Elon Musk says the opposite he says over the next few decades
he goes the population is going to start is going to start thinning out and that's why he's trying
to have so many kids he's fucking that guy's impregnating everybody he's got like 10 kids right now
and which is crazy and he's doing like invert in vitro fertilization where he's is that I was
doing it I wasn't sure I saw some conversations about this because he's trying to spread his seed
as far and wide as he possibly can he's trying to have more and more babies so is that a bad thing
I don't think so no especially the females are on board with it if they're no you know what I'm
saying there can't be I'm sure there's something set up for them as well with him being having
all this money he truly believes that there's going to be an issue he thinks that he thinks that
fertility rate or I think that's what it is if you can if you can look it up I'm sure there's
plenty of articles on it but he believes that over time basically based on math on where he
been 10 years ago to where we're going to be 10 years from now that the population the the birth
rate is going down dramatically sure sure well you know listen go back to kind of the conspiracy
thing when you hear about some of these some of the shots that they wanted to give females as young
girls and I was not for this obviously I have a daughter and we talked to the doctor long details
and I said so my concerns are that the shot is doing more than just controlling a cancer
that they could get their cervix that they could population to growth population growth has declined
mainly due to the abrupt decline in the global total fertility rates right from 5.0 in 1960 to
2.3 in 2020 wow less than half is that crazy and again it's working whatever is going on is working
because like I say I think that you look more and more into but what's the point
why too many people on the planet I don't think we can the fertility rates and cut been cut in half
it's clearly there's population decline is going to happen sure and then I guess the question is
how is that happening I mean what what's different now and and to the point where this population
started to turn and go the other way started to decrease it's so weird man with the vaccine
shit and the shots and all that stuff it's become like a fucking religion for people oh yeah it's a
fucking religion either you're for it or you're against it and that email yeah that I got no I
received that on February actually I thought I think it was the 12th it was the 17th of 2020
from my body mine at the Pentagon who sent that to me and he does half of his face on there and he
kind of types out this you know this critical letter about what's going on with the Chinese and
and Wuhan labs and this new disease called the coronavirus and initially when I saw that I didn't
give any I'm like okay whatever dude I'm I'm at work I'm you know doing myself so I'm asking him
what's what the cryptic face half of there he goes well I'm trying to make you understand this is
really important I'm like to who now in the line of work I was in dealing with masks obviously
different types of chemicals that these masks will prevent you from inhaling in gas from hitting
inhaling in different particle substances radioactive material so I'm fully licensed and prepping up
guys especially special operations guys to wear gas masks so in order to have that happen you got
to have a really good you can't have a beard you know the particles would get around their mask and
people like well what's the big on deal I said well listen if I put gas into a particular room
that we're going to go and insult because we're going in to get a bad guy the last thing I want
to do is have my mask leak when I get inside there because now it's going to affect me the
same way it's affecting him so you can't just put a mask on and hope that that's going to keep the
virus either away from you or to yourself it just doesn't work that way most people don't want to
want to know that they just go off of what the government tells them and they go hey listen I
you know my question to them is well what does the government ever really told you the truth about
anything across the board especially in today's atmosphere so it's trying to understand why they
would go down that road why they do what they do you know look at look at everything across the
board that's going on right now and it's just it's chaos it's absolute chaos across the planet
you know from different countries with the whole COVID thing now they're trying to do
additional lockdowns now Fauci's coming back out again now and saying hey it's time to do more
lockdowns you know listen I'm over it I'm running my life you know typically normally and if I get
it I get it yeah people treat I mean it's just like if you pay too much attention to it you're
just going to drive yourself fucking crazy and then there's people there's just there's some people
that it's I don't know what it is it's like focusing on or paying so much attention to the Fauci
to the fucking republican democrat it becomes their fucking identity absolutely just focusing on
this bullshit like it's not relevant to anything there's more to life than absolutely politics
and corrupt and corrupt fucking people in in government like there's more to life than that
like it's just fucking crazy and that's I don't know it's people some people have just lost their
way or they don't they have they're they're fucking lonely or they they're they're alone and they're
so unfuckable they there's nothing going on in their life well belief is such a funny thing man
when you look at belief across the board and I think when you look at especially like religion
and you believe in a certain concept of religion um I have I have the conversations completely I
said you know listen people get upset with me because I said God's not doing a really good job
right now if he just come down here and straighten this mess out we'd be good um I said you know the
the funny thing is like like the Japanese people don't know who Jesus is when they see his name
they're like who who's Jesus you know Jesus he was you know the son of God oh no that's no that's
not right so I said do the do the indigenous people here the uh the American Indian which are
not really Indians but the indigenous Americans here they all were part of that whole program
trying to understand you know what life is all about where they come from um and their approach
on every other thing revolves around that so when you see these stories come out about um different
groups or ideologies I mean there's a Baptist group that believe that you know if you hold a
rattlesnake above your head and you shake him he doesn't bite you it's because it's the will of
God but if he does bite you it's because you've done things wrong and I'm like so how many people
are really getting bit by those snakes at the end of the day when you're shaking them around like that
and I think that as we continue to educate ourselves about listen when you look at that
the um the stones up there in Georgia yeah um when you look at what actually happened to
those someone like drove their car into them no they actually dynamite and they blew them up
dynamite they used dynamite on them Jesus so and again now that was generated by a gentleman who
did not want to be identified he went through a banker the banker's still alive the gentleman who
did this has passed away I think 10 or 12 years ago but the the stones pointed out basically the
population was just too many people on the planet 500 million was that was the maximum number that
the planet could sustain and do it well so and in seven different languages it outlines what we
need to do in order to get back on track to be able to survive so why someone wanted to destroy
that um is kind of odd um but he just didn't believe in it they weren't going against our
ideology yeah but again they'll think of all it's one thing to go okay I don't believe in this and
terrorist yeah it's another thing to blow it up um and I'm like wow so it meant even the guy that
that initially knew who this individual was the banker he even today he still won't tell what
his name was really and he goes and when they ask him why they said it takes away from he's afraid
that they'll take away from what the message of the stones really is if they find out who he is
so I don't know if that means he was a somebody or just a nobody and why would a nobody know this
um but it was it's interesting across the board because I tend to believe again watching
where we are today um with food across the board we're obviously trying to grow more and more and
more the the farmers are having a problem with the land because they're they're over farming the
land and then the the the dirt takes abuse because there's just not enough nutrition in the dirt to
make really whole foods so they can't rotate the crops the way they once did so you know again we
go back to this genetically modified food um that I don't think does any of us any good I was having
this I was talking to Lexi about this there I was I was asking I'm like I'm like you know right now
what is like the average what is the average lifespan of somebody over the last 20 years
average lifespan is what like 80s 90s I want to say like 82 83 and I was I was wondering I'm like
what do you think the average lifespan is going to be of somebody who's in their 20s and 30s today
I was like I think just you know due to technology due to all the you know crazy you know DNA hacking
or neuro link technology that's going to come out and just advancement in science and medicine that
I bet will probably live to about 150 years 150 years old there's really no reason we can't and
and you know and then she was like yeah but food is becoming more and more processed and convenient
and nutrition is lacking more and more you know than it was back in the past like it just seems
like there's more processed foods and sugars and shit like that well look at the 60s man there were
no fat people in the 60s right you had people that were overweight but there were no fat people
you know when you when you go back and look today and look at the obesity which is really
brought on by sugar you know sugar is I had my brother in law about 10 years ago tell me oh sugar
is the worst thing you can put your body on that Joe relax it's sugar I mean come on and after talking
to several nurses she said if you took a blood test right after you ate a bunch of sugar you flip
out at what your blood was doing and she's then you know alluded to how bad it was for you across the
board I never really thought about it but I've kind of gotten away from more of this sugar heavy
sweet stuff I don't drink coax at all I haven't had a coke or a mountain dew in 20 years wow I
refuse to drink them they're just nothing but laced with sugar you know alcohol has sugar in it it is
sugar you get a disease from being an alcoholic your arms get real thin you get a bloated stomach
and your legs get real thin again brought on by sugar is this a process to thin the herd out I mean
you know we get rid of all the drinkers where is just money is it just fucking easy money because
the problem is really only in the U.S. right like there's no other countries that are that have this
epidemic of malnutrition and bullshit food and obesity obesity is like 70% of the population oh
yeah oh yeah well it's insane is there any other countries like that uh listen not that run on the
obesity even that you know it's funny when you brought that up I talked to one of my buddies from
Homeland Security here because we were they were having a problem with the power grid going down
and they believe that there were other entities out there that were dragging the power grid down
not to mention that they were this was in California they were driving through and shooting
transformers with a .22 rifle right so the transformers are only made in in in three different
countries the U.S. being one of them and they're a real hard item to get because there's not a
super demand for them across the board you're not they're not supposed to leak out oil and catch
on fire and they were trying to figure out who was doing this and why they were doing this and
looking at um people that were trying to control certain parts of the of the power grid well I
said well dude why would that matter he said well let me tell you this man right now in this country
there are 100 million uh diabetics there's another 80 million that are pre-diabetic he goes insulin
must be kept refrigerated if you lose power for 90 days the bodies will stack up at the hospitals
like you will not believe and he goes that shuts down everything because the hospitals will shut
down truckers will be afraid to go anywhere and all just through uh you know something as simple as
is insulin so I I look at you know you go back again you say well hold on this whole sugar thing
is it part of the bigger plan to get rid of those people where sugar is the enemy again thinning
the herd so we're doing it there we're doing it genetically through vaccines that you think you're
getting and slowly by surely they chip away at our ability to have reproduction you know if you look
at again what's happened to the population I think it's all related at the end of the day there's
just too many people on the planet who can't sustain it if you look at you know your your
countries like India the amount of garbage that they're throwing back into the ocean is just
unbelievable um and you don't really think about that in the bigger picture until you start looking
at videos and they show the you know the specific ocean with one area where all of this plastic
tends to get dragged into and then you see the the wildlife that eats it turtles eat the plastic
bags because they think it's jellyfish um and then what happens they end up starving to death
because they've got so much product in their stomach that it's full but they can't eat anything
so they end up dying so now we're you know now we start talking about extinction of certain animals
on a much bigger plane than we were talking about but is it is it you know go back to look at the
black plague there's people today that say the black plague was not spread by rat by rats and
fleas that there was something bigger and they believe it was extraterrestrial really as they
go through they said when they show these like reapers in the skies walking through the sky
and he goes this is what they mean to show that something's delivering this this virus
so if you go back in court to look at start looking at the history of man it seems to be
whenever they want to thin the herd out these viruses are made hence coronavirus I think
started out of SARS originally and you know turned into this this disease now that kills only people
who seem to have relevant uh conditions so my sister's husband died because of it now he was
350 pounds had all kinds of health issues um went into the hospital with had the devariant
which they said the devariant doesn't give you a fever and one of the doctors I spoke to
said well if the devariant's not giving you a fever you have no way to fight the bug
so at the end of the day when I asked my sister what killed him what's on his death certificate
what was on his death certificate was he died of pneumonia bought on by complications of COVID
when did he die uh about a year ago oh wow so you know again it seems to be able to pick out
people who are pre genetically disposed vulnerable that are vulnerable so again are we thinning
the herd for only the strongest shall survive at the end of the day because you know and I know
people who've had corona uh look at Lexi who you know just had really kind of a bad cold
uh there were no ill effects we didn't have to go to the hospital we didn't talk about
you know putting them on a ventilator right um yeah I never fucking got COVID and you were living
I was around her the whole fucking time she had it waiting on her hand and a foot like sleeping
next door and never got it never got it my sister when she got it uh or didn't get it
they were in a motor home as her house was being built so I had both my sisters living in a motor
home with her husband and they had both gotten sick they'd gotten a cold and so he had gotten sick
about two or three days later went down and I told him I said listen don't let him shove anything up
your nose there's no reason to do that let him know if you've got a cold they'll tell you right
up front but don't let him put it of course what do they do the first thing you do is shove that
stick up his nose so then he ends up with a D variant which again doesn't allow your body to
produce a fever and that's ended up with killing him long term and I asked my sister you need to
go back to that hospital and figure out what they were treating him with well they wouldn't
release that information to her other than he died of pneumonia I said that's bullshit because
he's your husband you should be able to have you know access to those records of what killed your
husband she just decided to leave it alone she goes you know it was COVID it is what it is
and I tend to agree disagree with that 100% yeah well I mean look at China I mean how many did
we know how many people in China died of COVID like I don't think there's many people in China
that are even overweight or unhealthy all right well listen that's the key right there you just
hit the nail on the head I they live a much cleaner lifestyle I mean even it's funny talking to a
buddy of mine his parents or his wife's parents are Filipinos so they move down here with them
they all live together in a home down here and all of a sudden we were talking one day and his
father-in-law had a stroke and his mother-in-law had a tumor and I'm like dude what is up with your
your your wife's parents and he goes what do you mean I said they're always so sick he said oh well
the challenge is this he goes you cannot have a diet consisting heavily of rice yeah it'll turn
you into diabetic and I was like what I had no clue and he goes oh yeah they're both diabetics
dude these guys are both thin they both they're not overweight and yet she just passed her mother
just passed away last year her dad's just had a stroke another one all brought on by rice and I
thought initially hey fish and rice what a great diet you know it's you're gonna you're gonna maintain
your weight it's gonna be no it's the worst thing in the world even you know with like one other
pointless useless type of information is horses that stay out in the field for 20 years and eat just
nothing but grass they will turn into diabetics because grass is a carbohydrate right so it's
the carbohydrates that end up being bad for us across the board you know when you look at I would
think that rice and fish would be a great diet but yeah this guy Dom that I've had on here multiple
times he's a nutritional biologist and his main focus of study it will it began it's mainly nutrition
but it began with the study of the ketogenic diet which is basically extremely low carb diet high
fat so it's it's like high fats meets he did the study of the ketogenic diet on oxygen toxicity
seizures so navy seals when they use those rebreathers right those those um trigger rebreathers
yep yeah the rebreathers they don't they don't have the bubbles like it's right like a normal
dive tank you have the bubbles that come out and they let you know you can see where people are
so the rebreathers let let them be covert under the water um but if you do it for too long they can
get oxygen toxicity seizures so the studies that he the studies that he did was putting these navy
seals on strict ketogenic diets keeping them in ketosis meaning that they're getting all of their
energy their body is getting all of their energy from ketones instead of glucose so that comes from
fat so from burning fat instead of carbs and what that did was that reduced the oxygen toxicity
seizures really then they moved that into epilepsy so now what they're doing is they're treating people
with epilepsy who get epileptic epileptic easy for you to say epileptic seizures they're treating
them with with ketogenic diets and they're putting people on keto and it's completely curing them
and completely cut like eliminating their seizures it's incredible how how much benefit that has on
the human body and which is amazing because if you really think about it the most of those fats
are coming from animal fats when i started going back and looking it was funny i led i had nothing
but a keto diet growing up as a kid that's all i ate i primarily meat potatoes and that was it
i didn't eat anything anything else and i loved the fat gristly part of the steak so it was funny
as a kid growing up guys would go man dude you are ripped you are just there's not an ounce of fat
on your body and i never took into consideration other just and i was a skinny guy and then uh yeah
you were a fucking you were a machine when you were like younger you were a picture of yourself
when you were yeah we gotta we gotta be able to pull it up yeah can you send it to me i can put it
on the screen yeah i'll do that so and it was kind of funny but because i never thought about my diet
being that diet and then obviously when i married a great woman who's an italian she's a great cook
but she loves that pasta and i learned real quick that pasta is bad news baby for my girlish figure
so i couldn't keep the weight off of me by eating all the carbohydrates so obviously i needed to
change and started looking looking at some things differently and started looking at the keto diet
again and understanding that your body would prefer to burn certain animal fats over sugar
but if you eat the sugar it will eat the it will take the sugar first before it uses the fat right
so you're not getting a true um a true nutritional value from having that so i've gone more to the
keto now um which you know again you holy you shouldn't be eating red meat and all this i said
listen i mean i if i eat too much of this i'm gonna die if i eat too much of that i'm gonna
die i'm gonna listen i'm gonna leave the planet a happy guy one way or the other eating good red
meat so yeah well it's good for you um i mean obviously everything in moderation is good for
you but um you know even people that are extremely overweight who have transitioned into a low carb
or keto diet they really they see their fat just melts off it melts off oh it does when you're on
an all-fat diet and it's not you know they don't have to go to the gym they don't have to do this
you know these crazy workouts right listen all you need to do is pick up your activity i think
i showed you those pictures of the man's legs that was the 40 year old runner was an triathlete
and you looked it down on his legs and they gave you the a cut aversion of what the muscle looks
like all around the bone of the leg yeah the one below that was a 76 year old guy who wasn't doing
anything he was sedentary just sitting there doing nothing right you saw the difference in
the muscle growth and then it showed the 70 year old who was running triathlons they'll look the
same as the the the 40 year old guy so it's amazing what diet will do for you but you have
first to understand what your body type is and what best works for you and also weightlifting
oh yeah oh yeah i mean you could see on that thing that you sent me the bone density too
was so much different you know i'm saying now you don't have to worry about a fall and break in your
hip right um and so many people give in to this i mean uh now they're doing a hormone therapy
replacement which i recommend to anybody out there today if you want to really feel good about
yourself talk to your doctor testosterone like trt bingo uh what a game changer it is and some
guys are worried well you know hey listen my testosterone levels will get back up i don't
want to have aroid rates i'm like listen as a kid your your testosterone's 11 or around a level 900
maybe a thousand as you get older mine was down to 550 and the doctor said hey i can put you on
hormone replacement oh my god what a difference really now it was only 200 milligrams so i was
still under the 900 i was at 750 750 milligram so i didn't have to worry about void rage or being
angry or you know as a kid when i had fooled around with these things you had void rage i'd be at 900
and then take this on top of that am i isn't that really bad for you when you're a kid to take that
i'm sure it is i mean i heard that when you're young and your body's naturally producing it when
you take exogenous testosterone it inhibits your naturally producing ability which i believe i believe
that to be a true statement as well i mean you don't see many guys that are on steroids bodybuilding
that are 15 or 16 years old typically told hey wait till your body fully matures and then get on
those those enhancing drugs but listen at the end of the day steroids were not made for healthy people
you know i'm saying so they use them now for muscle development and growth and you can become
a monster especially if you're pre-genetic pre-genetically disposed to be a big guy
um i've seen some guys who never lifted a weight in their life and they look like a bodybuilder
you know you look at the three different types of men mesomorph ectomorph and endomorphs
three different types of body for males and each of those are completely different you
know one's heavily in muscle one is extremely thin and then you've got the you know kind of the
middle that kind of falls in into both patterns he's muscly but thin but again primarily they're
completely different animals at the end of the day um and i don't when you look at let's say like
navy seals you look at certain guys like that that are just genetic freaks where they can take the
cold water and it just doesn't bother them um you know where i dude i get and look at look at
cold water and i get seized up right i don't want to get in that shit but listen they say it's really
good for you as well though you should have a nice cold shower a nice bath the body enjoys that and
there's some really benefits from it yeah for taking shit like like testosterone replacement
like what are some of the benefits of taking that shit dude i will tell you this you recover faster
i had a problem with some dental work that i had done and the dentist said hey listen they didn't
pull my wisdom teeth when i was in the military because they were too badly impacted and they
said hey listen those bothering you on the back no you go we're just gonna leave him alone so later
i had to have one of them removed and he goes like i talked to one of the doctors who said hey
listen unfortunately i'm gonna break your jaw when i pull that tooth out because you're such a
thin layer of bone below that the tooth is taking up most of the bone for that jaw so like oh man
last thing i want to have is a broken jaw i'm gonna have to wire it shut and then you're gonna be
sucking on straws so i went out and found another doctor who who said hey listen i can pull that out
without breaking it and saving you a lot of pain and problems over the long term so i'm like okay cool
so he pulled it um he said hey i can see the nerves they decided not to put a piece of bone
graft in there because he was afraid that bone graft would grow around the nerve and strangulate it
so he goes hey i'll see you in a couple weeks so i went back a couple weeks later
and now i'm on my testosterone regimen and i went back and he put me under the x-ray and he's like
oh my god and i'm like uh oh you know nothing good follows that what's up he's like dude the
the jaw bone is almost completely filled itself back in wow so the healing factor i told him i said
i'm on testosterone i wonder if that would have something he's oh absolutely that definitely
makes you heal faster that's interesting across the board have you heard of a book called breath
it's by this guy James Nester and he does he did this study on um on human skulls and the jaws
of humans specifically and their whole teeth structure over like hundreds of years okay and he
dug up like the skulls and the bones of all these people in in France and in these tombs and he found
out that people like back in the day before processed foods they had way bigger jaws they were like
30 bigger wow their teeth were bigger their jaws were bigger their whole facial structures were
like completely different because they weren't eating the processed foods that were eating because
right now the problem is that we're eating there's all these processed foods and all the soft foods
that were eating less and less people are eating meat now and it's it's contributing to this decay
in facial and bone density interesting and the jaws are getting smaller and they look at you
know you'll see some people he also does a big study on like the difference between nose breathing
and mouth breathing and a lot of people now that breathe out of their mouths they have like these
receded jaws they have fucked up teeth and that's also which a lot of dentists don't even talk about
one of the biggest cause of tooth decay and cavities is mouth breathing people really being
breathing through their mouths and this guy did studies on himself where he taped his mouth shut
for a month and and slept just breathing through his nose and then he did it the opposite taped his
nose shut and just breath and just breathed through his mouth and he he basically like quantified
all the effects from like well cognitively at how we felt monitored is like HRV his heart rate
everything like like biometrically and found you know crazy crazy things and benefits of breathing
through your nose and to chewing like chewing stuff with your teeth like meat and and you know how it
affects bone density in the jaw and it was just fascinating the books called breath and it was
really interesting to show like how humans have evolved from hundreds of years ago to the food
from the foods we were eating and yeah it was fucking wild no and like I said when you look at
that in the bigger picture of it nutrition is such a big part of what we do you know when I go back
and look at some of the fats now that I've obtained some of the ways that we have changed our eating
habits I told you pasta is good but it's all processed I don't like what it does to my body
when you eat a starch it turns it into a sugar and then your body releases insulin to store that away
and so that was always a challenge for me but now that I've kind of changed my diet up
I've started to lose a lot of that that sloppy fat weights that's on the outside again this is all
part of the testosterone regimen as well but you can control your weight easier I feel better
you you any issues that come up tend to heal faster and quicker across the board and listen
also I find a great doctor that's I've got a great doctor here in Florida he's a super guy
he's really involved with my day-to-day activities he I see him every three months
go back we talk about where I'm at now where was that then and it's like I say man it is an
absolute game changer when you talk about leading a great you know quality of life without having
to worry about all the aches and pains that are associated with being 60 yeah you know I never
thought first of all I never thought I'd be 60 well if I knew I was gonna live this long I'd
take a better care of myself but I think you know at the end of the day I got a lot of people come
up to me and go damn dude you are 60 you look great for a stick you look 40 you know if I can
shave 20 years off off looking older I'm happy about that you know that quality of life I love
the the outsourds I'm still I still go to the gym I'm still involved I like to you know do simple
things wash my car cut my grass clean my pool without the normal everyday aches and pains that
so many other people go through you know this process of becoming just a better human being at
the end of the day it's funny Lexie always shows me these videos on tiktok of these girls who uh
they go to like Germany or Italy and they go into the grocery stores and there's so much more
like raw foods like whether it be meats or vegetables oh yeah so much cheaper oh yeah
to get like raw unprocessed healthy foods at way more affordable prices and it's just better for you
I mean listen we had ran into a couple one night because they're look they're they're incentivized
to keep their people healthy because they're socialized medicine there absolutely well gluten
listen you can't cook with gluten overseas like we I met some guys we're here from Italy me and
Donna were out one night having dinner and my sister-in-law had pointed out my stomach when he
goes hey you're gluten intolerant because my stomach was sticking way out no I'm just full
she's like no no no your stomach doesn't pop out like that because you're full it's popped out
like that because you're gluten intolerant and I was like you know whatever you're not a doctor
you're not sure talking about so sure enough about two years later I was asking the doctor about
he goes oh we can do a test on you know probably gluten intolerant though because a lot of people
are sure enough gluten intolerant so talking having this conversation the woman goes hey if I
can chime in I hear you guys talking gluten is illegal in Europe we can't use that it's illegal
illegal so I said what I mean so wow that sounds that sounds crazy oh yeah well so let me ask
us what what else would you fucking spaghetti all over pasta whatever I mean all over Italy bingo
but they she said what they do is they use um egg yolk instead of gluten she goes now the problem
is that the egg yolk is more expensive than the gluten huh so he goes that's why we don't use it
and that's why America does use it because you guys have such an unbelievable marketplace here
that people just eat that and don't give it any consideration we have the pharmaceutical industrial
complex here absolutely absolutely so I think at the end of the day when you start taking into
consideration what you're eating if you really don't become a student of what it is they've now
got out there's another company out there that if you have um certain conditions when you eat
certain foods they'll actually be able to tell you what foods not to eat and I'm like hey if I
was suffering from Crohn's disease that would be the first thing I would want to know um my secretary
that had this her son would eat certain types of of uh foods that had those little seeds on top like
of the buns yeah and those seeds would get into the fold of the stomach yeah those seeds are really
bad and there'd be a now back up you know when mcdonald's first came out and cooking those there
was no problems like that right so what's in those seeds today that if they got into a fold of your
intestines would infect it and possibly even have to make you have that part of your intestines cut
out so I think when you start looking again at the food which you're eating how your digesting
system works what's going on is going to determine hey whether I'm going to have a great life as I
get older or I'm not and I've tried to really moderate like there's certain foods that just
inflame my joints on my arms um there's just some foods I just can't eat that have whatever the
chemical is in them it just bothers me to no end so I've gone back to my basically steak you know
potato and I may be a green bean um I found out here recently what a what a blessing magnesium is
and how it affects your body it actually helps you sleep which I was like what so I've got back
on a regiment of magnesium now your body doesn't produce that we need to have that you know brought
in through eating so they make it in a vitamin type capsule and I've been taking that again notice
some great actually sleeping harder um getting more feeling more rested at the end of the night
yeah rest is a sleep is a huge thing and sleep is also a big part of um testosterone too absolutely
more sleep you have the higher your testosterone and when you don't get enough sleep that fucks you
up like every single way chemically well you know it's funny man kind of getting off the track here
but talking to some friends of mine about sleep deprivation um these guys were working overseas
they were special operations guys and they had uh come in contact with some Taliban leaders and so
I made a joke to them oh hey you got a waterboard these guys and they all start laughing like dude
you've been reading too many Tom Clancy books we don't do that anymore there's just no more water
boarding how long ago was this this is probably three years ago two years ago so I said I laughed
I said well let me ask you because these dudes let me tell you them bro the Taliban leadership
they look hard these guys they didn't care they were in jail they still look mean there was no
looks on their face like please let me out they were like you know
bitch as soon as I get out of here I'm gonna start killing Americans again
and so you're watching these guys um as they uh showed again how hard they were so I said let me
ask you is how are you gonna get a guy like that talk and he said through sleep deprivation
and I said so I don't understand he said well come here so he brings me back to a room and what
they do is they they have a small 10 by 10 room has a metal bed and a metal toilet in the corners
are these speakers that are buried into the wall and he goes what I do is I play the sound of 10
thousand rabbits that are being slaughtered for three days at maximum volume and he goes
they will tell me anything I want to know they actually tell me things I didn't even ask him
about at that point because if you go I because we've gone to five days and actually killed somebody
so you can't sleep is that important at the end of the day you need good sleep and good rest
so you again that's going to be a quintal to having good health as well
so I I started looking at that real hard and especially with me taking testosterone now
having a hard time sleeping but when I wake up at two o'clock or three o'clock in the morning
I'm not tired it's not like I'm waking up like oh man I need to go back to bed I could actually
start my day and get to work you know and make things happen early and sometimes I do that I'll
just get up and get on my computer and start doing some work in the morning I forget who it was but
it was one of the guys who is at Guantanamo was interviewed and he was talking about like what
you were talking about the sleep deprivation and playing the music oh yeah well you know what this
was from I thought I believe this was from a podcast I listened to called uh it was called like
The Other Latif and it was about this guy named Latif Nasir that was put in Guantanamo um and
they asked him or he said in an interview after having to listen to like Barney they would put
like they would blast a Barney theme song for days and days and days he would go if somebody asked
you before having to experience it would you rather be castrated or listen to but with no
with no painkillers or listen to Barney at full blast for a week he goes after doing it
I would rather be castrated with with no fucking painkillers because you know it's over with and
it's a period of time yes it's crazy man the stuff they do and the enhanced interrogation
program too I have a guy actually I'm supposed to be having on here soon was one of the CIA
psychologists who was paid 80 million dollars to develop the enhanced interrogation program
wow and he lives right here in Sarasota and uh that's going to be an interesting podcast
one of the two guys that were in charge of developing that that interrogation program
after 9 11 with the waterboarding and all that stuff so you know too that they still haven't
brought those guys up on on any trials yet all the guys that committed the 9 11 atrocities
they're all still in Guantanamo Bay right yes they are they are I don't know what the latest is on
that but um yeah they I don't know what's going on with that but they that trial has been delayed
for forever for 20 years now I mean I'm like not that listen I'm not that I think you deserve a
speedy trial I just thought it was interesting that they haven't gone to trial it is weird right
I mean it just kind of lends itself to some of the other things we've discussed in the past with
you know is this a real event that took place I just watched this oh my god have you what's the
guy's name who killed bin Laden um well there's two guys there's a redhead guy who was the first
the guy who actually shot him in the face yeah I forget what his name is but I just watched a podcast
with him and he was basically he was walking uh he was walking us through the whole when they
went into that building that bin Laden was in and how they were like walking up the front
they were walking up the stairs to get to the top level right and when he saw bin Laden he said he
had one of his wives like he was holding onto her shoulders and like using her as a human shield
right and his two-year-old son was on the bed and um he shot him and they're asking about like the
photos of bin Laden right like the photos online you can see you can find photos of him after he
was shot and the guy who was interviewing was like what's so those photos aren't really like
are those photos legit that's the guy what's his name Robert O'Neill Robert O'Neill yeah
Rob O'Neill he goes he's like he goes oh no he goes I shot him in the eyeball I shot him right
through the eye three times from six feet away with a 40 caliber of I forget what kind of bullet
it was but it was a high-powered fucking rifle sure he said he shot him three times he goes his
face from his nose up was completely veed he goes he goes which is possible because I shot him from
six feet away with a fucking massive massive rounds sure he goes his his face was unrecognizable
he's like when we were taking the photos to send him back to the Pentagon or send him back to their
commanders or whatever he was holding bin Laden's head together he had to hold his head together
with both hands while they poured water on top of his head to get off all the blood and to get off
all the blood and stuff because it was unrecognizable after they shot him in the face yeah like why
when they were that why they had the fake doctored photos of his fucking head and well listen I mean
this whole thing gets even more convoluted than that even though that um Rob O'Neill says he did it
there was a book that came out and a guy named Matthew Bisonette he's also a seal that went in
there said he killed bin Laden really so yeah so there's a whole there's a whole interesting
thing about this not only that do they supposedly when this is going we're gonna get off an
attention here but supposedly bin Laden's still alive he's in Iran the Iranians at the time that
after they after President Obama came out and said they killed him called them and said this is the
Iranians calling calling Osama or not Osama bin Laden but calling Obama and saying hey you guys
didn't kill him we have him right here you better pay us 500 cazillion dollars or we're going to
release this information and you'll never be president again so supposedly and there was this
large massive amount of money I want to say it was like five five hundred million or five
some unbelievable amount of money that went to the Iranians that the Obama government sent over
there which I questioned initially but then one of the stories came out that when they found out
they hadn't killed bin Laden they dumped his body out of a helicopter over the water right I had
they dumped him off like a like a ship or something well this was this I heard off a helicopter was
the seals going back after they had got him on the now that was a proper burial for him for a
month or something well they say that but that's not how you bury a muslim for sure that's not
how you bury a muslim that's a daylight burial you have to be they have to be buried the same
in a in a direction I think it's to the west which points to their religion and their church
which just there's a whole other process to it but when he talked about this the first thing you do
they did this with Saddam Hussein now listen they took Saddam Hussein from his side they brought
him over they hung him by the neck right we saw him getting executed so I'm going to execute
you know there's no autopsies yeah but they do a DNA scrape on them also right to confirm
what that's who this was they did not do that with bin Laden which is weird right it's very weird
like why so I've never I've never I've asked many people even CIA people John Kiriakou I had him in
here I've never had a convincing reason convincing like like like okay like a reasonable explanation
unless it wasn't him unless it wasn't so they said that's crazy to say like to say that he
fucking they didn't fucking kill him I mean it's just why is there two seals that claim they killed
him I've never heard about the other guy oh yeah like I said he actually Matthew Bessonette came out
with a book and he uses a different name as kind of uh like uh uh well what's the word I'm looking
for he did he claim he was on the same team that went in with oh yeah with uh oh yeah he's a seal
this guy's our true seal the whole time he was with O'Neill yeah had they ever asked O'Neill about
this guy well see that's the whole thing they've I there's another seal program that's on on on
YouTube and they brought these guys in and they were talking about this and I said listen bring
these guys in bring Bessonette in and in uh O'Neill let's find out where they were at in the building
where were you at in the stack the stack being you know the the guys standing in line before you
make interest into the building yeah so I mean if you can tell us where you're at in the building
that's going to tell us whether you shot bin Laden or not so but they won't bring these two guys
together and I keep egging them on bring these guys on the show and ask them where they were
stop we won't have to guess anymore right right because I promise you we're going to find out
exactly where they were in the stack so and at that point we'll be able to find out who actually
killed him but it you know when just before Trump got out of office there was this whole
leak from the CIA about this guy who was a living in Saudi Arabia he was living with royalty
he's an American and he's a falcon ear falcon earrings real big over in Saudi Arabia and he came
out and was one of these guys was saying oh there's a lot more going on here falcon you mean one of
the people that like fucking falcons fly around and lay on their hands that's it really well listen
that's a big business over there really oh man we went out I went over there one year to Saudi Arabia
to Saudi and we were dealing with the prince and so we were selling them guns and they came out
there must have been 40 or 50 people out in the middle of the desert and they let this little
animal go and it took off across the sand and you know about a minute later they let this falcon
go in the falcon swoop down and got it and these 40 people all started clapping their hands and I'm
looking around like here should be clapping I wouldn't clap anyway yay I don't understand what
the hell I'm looking at and excuse me the they said hey listen the prince wants to see the guns
we got the guns together brought him over to them well when you fire these things
they have a tendency to rock you back a little bit so what I did was I stuck my hand up behind
his shoulder just so it wouldn't rock him back and I touched him when he shot the gun and two
guys broke out a line and started running at me and he screamed something at them and the handle
that was there turned to me and goes don't you ever touch the prince again those guys were coming
over here to kill you don't you ever put your hands on him again what prince was this uh prince
I'll have to go back and look now there was two of them that were there um and he was the there's
like dude there's like like 500 princes there which was kind of unusual as well it's not like the
prince he was breastfed from king fossils wife and there was a whole story behind it even when we
we finished up that day and we had gone back to so wasn't been salmon what's that been salmon
exactly now it was I don't I can't remember all the details on it now but we went back to the
facility after the fact and I was sitting down because I'd crossed my legs I was sitting at the
end and chocolate over there is majorly expensive because there is no place to get chocolate from
over there so I was eating this chocolate and I had crossed my legs and two of the commanding
officers that were both Iraqis or excuse me Saudis had a fit because I was showing them
the bottom of my shoe and they were down there you know bitching at me about I'm like I don't
understand what he's saying the other guy's like hey put your foot down put your foot down they
don't want to see the bottom of your shoe it's a big a big offense so I don't want to so it was
some things I was learning there that were kind of odd that they do from from a cultural perspective
yeah but again trying to look at the overall like I say with that that day touching him even when
we were there the females had just were able to start driving cars and the muslim brotherhood
was going around and shooting these girls who were driving cars so it was it created its own
problems you know internally with the country right but it it was interesting again to see
what the take is on this whole bin laden thing you know which of the seals killed him
what's the story there because it was even odd to see those typically don't come out and talk about
the operation so that was even kind of weird so you know I'm just odd you do so I mean is it a
smoke screen is it just trying to make us really convinced that they really killed this guy at the
end of the day why they didn't do a DNA scrape on him is above and beyond me which just adds to the
whole story but then it doesn't sound real you know why would the government do that I don't
know why the government would do that I don't know if we really do have a thing going on with
the Iranians you know yeah the story just goes on and on and on and on with all types of hype and
you know the thing about it is just like the whole top it when you start talking about stuff
that's not like official and stuff that's like doesn't that goes against like the common narrative
is that there's the problem is there's so many conspiracies oh yeah that are real oh yeah there's
so many conspiracies that are fucking real especially when it comes to our government and
the CIA like if you talk about like MK ultra or the stuff that Kennedy talked about and all of the
fucking crazy shit the Iran Contra and all the people that were murdered conspiracies are real
sure so conspiracy but conspiracy theories have the stigma and conspiracy theory and that only
benefits the people who commit this that commit the conspiracy rock on brother that's exactly
right only benefits it does and it confuses the issue because it makes you go away why would
these people lie to us about certain events I mean like the whole you know bin Laden thing yeah
there was some oddities with the the actual I this came up in a conversation with one of the guys
here the tail rotor of a helicopter was left unburned and what happened was it crashed coming
in to landing in the right okay so it crashed and the tail rotor got broke off on the other side
of the fence so it didn't catch fire one of the guys said what's really odd about this is that the
actual blades on the tail rotor fan that keep the helicopter from spinning were not damaged
and I said is that odd he goes dude they are all I mean they're moving everything's back there's
moving it's it's there's I've never seen a tail rotor survive a crash ever until I saw all this
really so again was one of those kind of those weird moments when you're like well hold on a
second he didn't know about the two different seals that claim to kill him they didn't know about
some of the other uh things that were not necessarily true or were not true about killing
bin Laden and so it was you know when you start asking him well do you think that they did this
and he was like no I mean why would they do that well you're bringing up this tail rotor thing and
telling me how it wasn't damaged I said do you think it was just laid there yeah and he's like
I'm just telling you that it's unusual out of all the helicopter crashes I've investigated I've
never seen a tail rotor that wasn't damaged ever so he goes this thing was actually coming in for
landing and I guess the problem was that there was a concrete uh structure it was like a fence
around the property concrete wall around the whole property as they were landing the down push of the
air came back up the sides and went back over down the chopper again and it lost its ability to
stay hovering right so it didn't crash and all the none of the seals were killed but they ended
up having to burn that vehicle up because it was a right before the stealth yeah I believe it was
some sort of stealth chopper that they had were indicating that they needed to burn up and so
they did and but again when you looked at it so it's just it's even like let's say we go look at
9 11 you look at all these these conspiracies or the things that took place the UFO crash in Brazil
and then you start talking to guys there well there was something that happened but nobody can
confirm what it was and so your your left kind of did make your own decision as to what what your
belief revolves around those particular incidents and you know I've always been a conspiracy guy
obviously when the when the story doesn't match to what the conversation is there's a problem there
what was JFK's speech about secret societies do you remember that he well I'll tell you what not
only was he a secret society guy the one of the reasons he was warning about secret societies
and he wanted across the board he wanted to disband the CIA completely he was definitely not
the the the internal groups that were protecting the U.S. were not satisfied with Kennedy because
Kennedy was trying to share information with all the rest of the world according to the story that
they actually had a name for him I can't think of the name that the Secret Service would call
him by his by this name I think it was called Spencer and they said hey this document was
actually burned in a fire and somebody pulled it out and it said in this was talk from a terrestrial
group within the government that said hey Spencer is not cooperating Spencer starting to ask too
many questions about our objectives and what we're doing if he gets any closer we're going to need
to paint him wet and the Russians used that terminology as to kill somebody so when you see
this on the paper you're like oh wait a minute if Kennedy was truly killed for this reason then
there's a bigger part of the whole assassination plot that was going through so I started to you
know that's kind of what made me go back and kind of look at the the Kennedy assassination and there's
just some oddities about it with the Secret Service car that's behind him and when they show you the
investigation they make it look like the Secret Service was just an entity they were protecting
the president when in fact I think they had an active role in his death well I think most people
that pay attention to it kind of like look at it it's not really a conspiracy theory anymore it's
kind of like it's kind of uh I don't know if you've watched Oliver Stone's latest film on it the JFK
revision yeah oh yeah fucking crazy man crazy unbelievable there's no evidence to I mean there's
there's the stack of evidence to show how it was an inside job by the CIA compared to the stack of
evidence to say that it was Lee Harvey Oswald as a lone shooter alone is it's astounding ridiculous
I mean even here's one of the things I looked at in in this process I came across a guy who
was a this guy's professional expert shooter he's the one that proved that you could shoot a
manlaker kakana that's the rifle that killed Kennedy you can squeeze off three shots in six
seconds and hit your target and I talked to this guy it was super cool and I said so let me ask
us how did you get involved in the investigation he goes well he goes I started my own investigation
because the paper that covered me when I did this in outside of DC didn't tell them it took me six
times to do it so I had to do this set it up six different times so listen he goes there's no way
that that this was done by a lone shooter from from the top of a roof right so he said I'm going
to show you something and this was a it was a video it's online you can find it it's a it's a
a secret service guy they land the car in Dallas and the two secret service agents run out to get
on the back of the car on the car that Kennedy's killed in right and a third secret service officer
who's in the follow vehicle tells them to get off the back of the car and when they get off the back
of the car you can tell they weren't briefed on why they're not going to be on the back of the car
because they put their hands up and they are like what's going on why am I not on the back of this car
so then if you read the warrant report the warrant report talks about the warrant commission
the warrant commission talks about uh Lee Harvey all or not Lee Harvey all as well but the uh
secret service going in they said hey listen we're taking the president's body back to DC you need
to pack them this is after he died they brought him at first they brought him to a hospital there
in Dallas correct they immediately took him away well because he died and obviously the
massive head injury that he had was he wasn't going to survive that so the secret service went
and said hey you need to package this the president up we're taking him out of here and the surgeon
said to him the doctor said hey he's not leaving Dallas there was a murder done there's going to
be an investigation and the secret service pulled his jacket away from his pistol and looked at the
doctor and said package his body up we're taking him with us right one of the other x-ray technicians
came back this is also on the warrant commission report and talks about how another secret service
agent he goes now i'm 21 this secret service agent came in to me and handed us some brass
some uh led objects and wanted him to take a picture with Kennedy's brain and have these
fragments be in the in the photograph and the guy that came back and said listen i'm 21 this is the
secret service telling me what to do because i didn't question anything they asked me to do i just
went back and did it yeah you're in the middle of something bigger than you want to deal with
bingo so you do not want to fucking be pushing back against this massive fucking bureaucracy
and again he's the secret service so that was a different time period for this nobody thought
about still that there was anything no no collusion going on that Kennedy was killed by
something else other oh you know he was killed by the Russians oh he was killed by the Italians
oh he was killed by you know whomever right but the interesting thing was when i started to go
back and review the footage the secret service car that the follow is behind the president
is literally two feet from the back of the car when the shooting takes place yeah you would
have heard those shots go over your head and there's three there's three agents in the very
front of the car who are looking straight ahead and there's two that are riding on the back of
the car the follow car and they're their heads turned back towards the the shooting where where
the book depository was but the other three or have sunglasses on and they're staring at Kennedy
and tently and it's just odd because you don't really realize how close the car is
so if they had would have taken the first shot that bullet would have gone right over the top of
their car the cracking sound of that bullet moving at the speed of sound or faster than
makes a cracking noise they would have heard that go over their head and there would have been more
going on with them at that point in time than it would have been if they didn't hear the shot at
all so the bullet that went into his head that blew off the back of his skull where did that
enter did I did I go up through his neck or did that where did it enter well they're saying it
came from behind him right the official report says it came from behind him but it's clear the
back of his skull blew off sure which means it came from the front which but then he also got shot
through the neck right because he goes like that right that was the first shot first shot they said
went through the back of his neck through him through the front seat in the front hit governor
Conley in the back traveled down came through his arm hit him in the wrist and stopped on his wrist
and the weird thing was the bullet was pristine there was no no marks on the bullet which is
really bizarre to have it go through two people and not have any marks one that was that wrist
what's that the one that it finished up on his wrist it's called the pristine bullet
was actually on the gurney magic bullet the magic bullet was the magic bullet wasn't the one that
went in his wrist right the magic bullet was supposed to be placed there the one that went
in his wrist they had they had to have pulled that out right no that's what I say they didn't
pull it they never kept that they never what they did was they brought him in on the gurney
the bullet was already on the gurney he was laying there next to him right so again that was
kind of those weird things but nobody questioned that I mean you know the the government wasn't
capable of of being the cynical so I don't think anybody said oh well just passed through his body
so they were trying to show how a bullet could actually do that yeah there it is oh there you
go right there I mean come on man look at that there that passed you two bodies broke his wrist
yeah and you can even see there's the drawing below it so the one that that blew the back of
his skull off that one came up through like the jaw or something or no it well they say from behind
now if it was the grassy knoll shot but it blew the back of his skull off right now keep in mind
too man your head like a watermelon water doesn't compress that's why guys heads blow up when you
shoot him with a gun with a high-powered rifle same thing with you shoot a watermelon the water
doesn't compress so your head's gonna pop right and um when when you see he initially gets shot
Jackie Kennedy is sitting next to him and she jumps up out of her seat and grabs something
that's on the trunk of the car part of his head that's part of the skull so which is kind of weird
in itself you think well why would you run out and grab that and of course I don't know what people
do when you hit an emergency like that anything's possible but immediately this you see the circuit
service jump up and he jumps on the car and they tell the guy to get out of there so I just think
there's too many weird things with the Secret Service do the warrant commission report that point to
those guys and they try to stay off the radar they they turn out to show their car they try to
have any information they try to and one of the agents that was initially going to be sued
keeps threatening to sue this guy who did the testing on the on the ballistics and he's telling
this guy this is the former Secret Service agent good bring me to court I want you to bring me to
court because the truth will come out when we do this and so he's never gone to court yet for this
date the crazy thing about the latest documentary we got to wrap it up soon you got like a minute
left but uh the craziest thing about um Oliver Stone's latest documentary JFK revisited is that
they should they talked to uh one of the people at the hospital that they brought him to first in
Dallas and one of the girls who actually knew him like like had been around him before and she was
she talks about how emotionally distraught she was when they brought him in because they she explains
how his cerebral fluid and parts of his brain were like oozing and dripping out like all over the
fucking the tray underneath his head but then miraculously after they brought him to DC they
have his fucking brain and they weighed his brain and his brain weighed more than what the average
brain weighs intact and after his fucking head got blown off and here's the creepy part dude they
still don't know where his brain's at today right that's an ongoing so again it's just those little
moments like that they go like hey what's really going on here in the bigger picture you know listen
9 11 we've got you go back to uh Pearl Harbor you go back to all these major events that take
place in the world and there's always some sort of dark information that kind of follows them
around as well and I don't know you know is this the is this the World Bank talking is this there's
like six or seven families they're really running the world I you know the joke was that I heard that
the lizard people that I mean is it you know what I'm saying so when you take into consideration
due to all the things that are going on around the world it's all paranormal comes down to some
sort of either UFO based information you know about running the planet and doing all these
crazy things to you know bring down the population but it just never seems to go away and like I
say dude when you look at today you got what 20 different shows that are on right now that you
know deal with Bigfoot and classified documents and Fear in the Woods and Beyond the Unknown and
all these different shows and each show shows you a little bit of something and if like I say if
you watch them long enough you start to see this wait wait a minute there's a why is this going on
and you know again listen why why are we having this conversation today it's so interesting it's
so amazing there's an awakening that's going on around the world and I think the people that
wake up and kind of see some of the things that are going on now are looking at them
much more intently than they were just 10 years ago well Mike thank you for doing this I definitely
have way more questions than I have answers after talking to you we got to get you back in here soon
dude let's do it again I appreciate you having me on the show again and like I say man we'll
give you an update sometime here in the near future hell yeah you're the official concrete
UFO correspondent I appreciate you man all right thank you everybody and good night take care
