I can remember the
The morning
My dad was actually he had a really bad hip not many people know this
He had a horrible hip and he got his hip replaced twice the same hip and it in like his body was like rejecting it
And it like the first time it just didn't work and then the second time he got a staff infection
Yeah, and like it was pretty messed up and then
He had his third hip replacement where they told him this is the last one
We can do if it doesn't work. You might not be able to walk like fuck so
that Monday he was scheduled in the morning to
to have this hip surgery and then Saturday night he got in from doing all this traveling to the shoot last-minute commercials before he
was going to be down for a while and
He
Got in
To Tampa Bay Tampa Airport
It's kind of a funny thing. You can look it up. Is this a video with a plane his plane
The wheel blew out on landing and like the suitcases fell out and he got hit on the head with his own suitcase or like other people's suitcases
And and then they even interviewed him like local news interviewed him coming off the plane because they're like
Oh notable local guy Billy Mays was on the plane
And so he has this like really just exhausted look on his face
And I knew I know what he's going into at that time. Oh, yeah, he called me and we had this long talk
he was just like happy to be alive and
He was talking about like we're just gonna get this hip done
And then we're going forward with all these business things where I was gonna help him with a lot of the kind of the PR stuff
with oh really basically the website that I run now Billy Mays org is probably a version of what I would have made with him had
He's still been alive was just sort of yeah
Collecting his work, you know, that's kind of what it was. Okay, because nobody was doing that and
So that happened and then that night I was super
Anxious not about the plane. I thought whatever the plane he got lucky and that happened. Yeah, I
remember feeling like super anxious just about
The hip surgery thinking something like a wrong or whatever you're worried about might not walk again or so
Yeah, yeah, totally and then I
Was telling my girlfriend about it and I was kind of like panicky and I felt like my chest was like
You know how you when you have anxiety you're like you've I started to get really worried that I I
Had like a problem going on so I so to calm down
I think I turned my phone off which I never did I turned my phone off for the night and
went to bed
we wake up Sunday morning and
My girlfriend gets a call from her mom that says hey Billy needs to call his mom
She can't get ahold of them. Everything's okay. Just call just call her and I'm like, okay, everything's okay
So I call her and she answers the phone crying and basically telling me that they found my dad
dead when he woke up or he never woke up that night and
It's funny because he was traveling and he just made it home that night
And he he finally got home and then and then died which we all look back at is such weird timing
It would have been way worse if he had died in like a hotel room or something else out of state or yeah, so
Yeah, that was kind of just devastating and then I was talking to you know a bunch of phone calls coming in that day and
It was just a pretty surreal day it was how to been a surreal like couple months. Yeah, totally. I mean, it's a surreal life
Yeah, it's I
can remember I
Had a blackberry at the time
This is my phone and like I had just gotten on Twitter
Maybe in like March of that year and it was just starting out and it was it wasn't really like a big thing yet
But it was pretty awesome still to like be on Twitter and I got my dad on Twitter
Oh, maybe a month or two before he died
We we actually found someone was doing a parody account
And then we asked that that kid if we could just take that account because he had gotten a bunch of follow you have like the Billy
Handle he had real Billy Maze
Okay, so we we wanted to get that because it was already kind of established is still a thing
I think so you can go on it and it's funny because if you look back at the tweets
There's an undefined moment where before this moment. It was just this kid tweeting and what he thought my dad would tweet
And then there's a moment where people are actually my dad
Like I think I'm still in touch with the dude. That's a mark if Mark's watching this
We're like connected on social media, but like
I think we maybe sent him some some swag or something. That's hilarious
But then like my dad would tweet like kind of goofy things. He would just be like it was always like
Going to LA today gonna shoot commercial
Thank you to all my fans like stuff like that. He was a blackberry. It takes like 20
And he was a total boomer like just in general about this kind of stuff tech wise
he would like he didn't he didn't type he typed with fingers, you know, he had just pointed fingers. Yeah, and
You know, it was amazing that he even was able to get emails from for his work stuff
And he didn't have an agent or anything
Like I think I think he had an agent that he worked some of the bigger deals with towards the end
Like he had the Discovery Channel deal and a few other bigger deals that finally just required an agent
But like he was doing so many handshake deals with his really that's that's hilarious. Yeah, so
anyway, the
the blackberry thing is notable because I
I
Actually tweeted
Within an hour of getting the news
That my dad didn't wake up this morning because people were following me because of my dad on Twitter
And it was like a pitchman thing that I was on the pitchman show on Discovery Channel
So we had like this little fan base that was growing
Yeah, and I was just trying to be like, you know, the in-between because my dad didn't really know how to interact
In a quick way, so I would just do that. So on Twitter
I posted that and then I see it popping up on the news stations. I was the confirmation that my dad
I'm really it wasn't confirmation because my I wasn't verified or anything
So they just started running with and they were using that tweet as verification
You'd see screenshots of my tweet on CNN and all this stuff and this was kind of like I feel like it's when we discovered this whole like
mass
Mass grieving of celebrities was right around this time because it was Michael Jackson died three days earlier
Yeah, why 25th? Yeah, and my dad died on the 28th and
Like literally in my last conversation with my dad. He's like you heard Michael Jackson does like yeah, that's crazy
and then
It became that and then and the news is like rant like just blew it out like blew it up
Yeah, Ed McMahon fair faucet Patrick Swayze
So I like tweeting you and stuff. Well, no, they were they were all dead
They were they were celebrities that died that that summer and so that's that's why later on there's a South Park episode called dead celebrities
It was the season premiere of one of the seasons where my dad was heavily featured in it
But he had all these celebrities including Michael Jackson. They're they're ghosts. Yeah, like haunting. Oh, my kid. That's so sick
it's it's amazing and
So anyway, I
somehow my tweet
Made it to Alyssa Milano who was a big tweeter at the time. Okay, and she basically just said hey go give infinite thirds some love
He lost his dad today, and I and that was like a really nice thing
But I had notifications on and it literally bricked my my blackberry for like six hours
I couldn't call anyone. I was at my dad's
Condo, we'd finally made it there, but as that was happening the way the notifications came in wasn't prepared for that many
And it was like I went from like a thousand followers to like 15,000 followers and blackberries over a few hours
so yeah, it like I
It kind of like made me not able to tell more people like my family and stuff which is funny
But yeah, that's kind of a funny like that's how it
Like that's how it dispersed through the world was through my tweet. Yeah, and that's funny how stuff works
Yeah, so it seems like you and your dad were really close. Yeah, we were super close
Like super like personal and business seems like you helped him out a lot
I think that was where it was going
Yeah, I was just like filling the role of while nobody's really thinking about this stuff
And I'm here and I care about it. So I should do that and he was super on board and
Um
I mean I did like travel with him the last time I saw him actually was in LA really
The week he died he went on the tonight show with with Conan O'Brien when Conan had a short stint hosting the tonight show
I tried finding that I couldn't find that interview damn
It was him and Anthony Sullivan. They were promoting pitchman
And a couple times before that he was on Jay Leno's tonight show. I saw that one and that was cool
But I told him
I don't I don't care to go for that
But if if you ever get on Conan you gotta find me outside. He's like a huge Conan fan. Yeah, and I still am
And the minute he got booked for Conan. He just called me. He's like, hey, I'm getting you a ticket like we're going
So I went out to LA
Had this great time met Conan hanging out backstage and stuff. That night we were all celebrating
That moment and that was the last night that a lot of us saw him because then we all went our separate ways
And he went and shot all these commercials and
so
Yeah
We were close. We
He was a huge supporter of like me doing music and stuff. That was he really. Yeah
Unfortunately, he never really got to hear my my good music. Yeah, but he heard some of the stuff that I worked on
In the years before that and he was he was just
He was just like unconditionally supportive of it, you know
And my mom was like that too and they're divorced
Since I was like three, but they both kind of had this like really heavy support
Just because I was the only child and I feel like
I don't know they were just good like that and I lived with my mom growing up. So
Um, my dad was kind of like this traveling
Uh, I see him when I see him kind of thing right because he did the home shows home and garden shows
That was like his thing. He was like a carney
Basically like going and pitching on boardwalks and traveling home shows. Yeah, he would pitch products
He would get a booth at these at these things like trade shows or yeah, kind of like like uh,
But just like gadgets like for your home like you go and you look at refrigerators and stuff
but you also look at like
choppers and
Things like that. So when I was growing up
when I was a baby he was doing the wash matik which was uh
hose
That goes in a bucket
So you can wash your car on the fly without having a hose nearby and you pump it
And it uses like gravity to shoot water at your car. Oh, shit. He was great at the demo
He like learned from the like the the veterans how to do this demo. Mm-hmm. And so there's pictures of
Him holding me as a baby and like
The thing and doing like on like a
Um on a standalone car door that they bring in
They don't bring a whole car and thing. Yeah, so they used to call him bucket billy
And I remember there's like shirts of him set his says bucket billy and mine says little bucket billy
So that was the product that I knew him for as a baby, but then when I was a
Closer to becoming a teen maybe like maybe like 11 12
He was doing the salsa master which was basically a food processor that you'd crank with your hands
It's a great product
and I think it's still around and
His demo was just making salsa all day
And so I would hang out when he would come to Pittsburgh for the home show
That would be like the most time that I would spend with him and I'd like bring my friend and
He would buy us all these like X-Men toys and
Or whatever we're into at the time wrestlers or star wars or whatever
And we'd we'd go on like a spree because he was just like trying to make up for not being around. Yeah
And we'd play in the hotel and swim and then during the days we would go and hang out at the home show
and
Like hang out under the booth like playing with toys and stuff because it wasn't that much space
Yeah, so it's kind of like ingrained into me what he did. Wow. It's cool as hell
And you could like try the salsa that was like part of that was how you get people to come to the booth
It's a free salsa
So in between we would just I know we would just eat this also
It was like it was amazing salsa
He'd make like a spicy one and a mild one and my dad legit made really good salsa
So yeah, and it was probably from making it so much with that. Oh my gosh
So that was like that was the time just
Between the home shows and then he lived in florida in clear water
We would come down and visit him in the summer sometimes for like a couple weeks
Okay, and so that was the time that I saw him. It wasn't really like shared custody. He was like my mom
Raised me and then my dad. I would just see him when I could
Thankfully they always got along and oh, that's good. Yeah
You
