It's been a long time. I feel like it's been years, but it's only been 15 episodes since
we've been on here. Thank you. Thank you. How you been, man?
It's been a long time. How did you survive? How did you do? How
did you weather the storm, the hurricane? I mean, it was, you know, like we were just
saying, it just, you know, you know, it turned. Yeah, we got lucky. I didn't think, even when
it said it was headed towards Tampa, it still said kind of north of Tampa. And I'm, I mean,
I'm said, it said south, it was going to hit south of Tampa. Yeah. And I thought, well,
I'm like 30 minutes, like 20, probably 30 minute drive, maybe 40 minute drive from Tampa.
So I'm like, I mean, I'm just, and we're 30 minutes, I'm 30 minutes, 30 miles in from
like the coast. Like it's going to dissipate pretty rapidly.
Yeah, you were in a spot. Yeah, I wasn't that. I wasn't concerned. But then, of course, then I
saw what happened to Fort Myers. Fort Myers got totaled. It looks like a nuclear bomb went
on. Yeah, that's pretty crazy. I didn't expect that underwater. Everything's fucking underwater.
Yeah. I really thought, I just think that I thought, I thought out there overreacting. Yeah.
You know, like they always were overreacting. And then you see it and you're like, Oh,
fuck. It really did. Yeah, like New Orleans. I got lucky. Yeah. Yeah, it looked fucked up down
there, man. We got so lucky. Didn't hit us. We would have been fucking destroyed, especially
Tampa and St. Pete. Yeah. Yeah. And we also got saved by the storm surge because of the
counterclockwise, the way the storm rotates counterclockwise. It sucked all the water out
of the bay and out of the gulf. Did you see the pictures of the Hillsborough River?
It's like empty. No. It's completely dry. Yeah. Oh, I remember I was watching TikToks and YouTube
and stuff. And there's people walking out like off of Bayshore where the ocean is. Yeah. They're
walking way out. I mean, hundreds of yards out. They're just walking around.
It's crazy. Yeah. Lucky as shit over here. They say we're guarded by the sacred Indian land
over here. That's why we get spared all the time. Yeah. Apparently there's,
he's not from here. Oh, you are from here. Apparently I'm in here since the 80s.
Apparently there's some sacred like Indian burial grounds all around Pinellas County.
And a lot of people around here like to say that that's the reason the storms always miss us.
I mean, I don't know. I don't know. There's no other logical explanation. Did you guys lose
power at all? No. That's always the worst part about these hurricanes, especially not obviously
Fort Myers. There's a lot worse things that can happen, but it seems like always in Tampa,
like especially Irma back in 2017, there was like a lot of trees down, a lot of
shit got ripped up, but nobody had power in my neighborhood for like seven or eight days.
I'll take your word for it. And it was, I was terrible. Where were you at? Oh, you're probably
Coleman. Oh, you were in Coleman. That's probably one of the safest places to be during your years.
Yeah. You never lose power there, do you? Oh, I don't know if, no, they didn't lose power,
but what was funny is, you know, I would get these, these emails on the core link system.
Are you going to be okay? I'm like, oh my God, a nuclear bomb could hit here. I'm exactly,
I'm in a bunker. Trust me, I'm going to be fine. They served, I remember, you know,
like they don't let you leave. They just locked the doors. What if it floods in there?
I mean, in other prisons, it's flooded, but it didn't flood there. But yeah, I've heard of
places where it floods. They'll move whole pair of prisons. Like if they think it's going to hit,
they'll put everybody on plane. That's what I was thinking. Like, will they take you out of there?
They will. They'll put you on con air and get you out. Yeah. Really? Yeah. And they'll put you,
send you to another, they'll fly you out of the state, send you to another prison,
stack you up, eight people in a cell and, you know, but they don't want to leave you there to,
to listen to the one thing they're going to pretty much keep you alive.
You know, unless you're sick and then you're worth money to them. Each prisoner is worth a lot of
money. Yeah. So what? $32,000 a year? Crazy. For people that are, there's probably going to be
some new listeners here today. We've had, since you've been on, we've acquired quite a few new
subscribers and listeners to the podcast. We're now north of half a million subscribers.
So tell people out there who don't know who you are. Give them your elevator pitch,
your true crime elevator pitch. How long an elevator pitch? Is that three minutes or five
minutes? Give us like a minute, a minute. A minute? Give us a 60 second pitch of your
background and who Matt Cox is. My name is Matt Cox and I own a mortgage company at one point.
And then I started pulling real estate scams and I started creating synthetic individuals,
synthetic people and borrowing millions of dollars in those people's names. Eventually,
I was caught. I was on the run for three years. Eventually, I, sorry, eventually I got caught
by the Secret Service and they gave me 26 years in prison. I did 13 years and got out.
Thanks to Frank Omidale. And met, yeah, and met, met Danny.
Tell the story about how we met for people that are listening, how you reached out and then the,
so when I was locked up, I, I had written a bunch of true crime stories because I've been
locked up for a while and I wrote my own memoir and so after I wrote my, my book,
other guys kind of like started saying, Hey, you are, you know, you ought to write this guy's
story. You ought to write that guy's story. So I ended up writing, you know, from Deverelli's story,
the guy from War Dogs. And then I got a bunch of guys in, in Rolling Stone magazine and I optioned
the film rights to some of my stories and I wrote a bunch of other stories and started talking to
reporters. So when I got out, I wanted to start a true crime podcast, which I never did. I kind of
did, but you kind of got one now kind of. So I wanted to do true crime. Like I thought, oh,
I'll do that. And so when I was in prison, I mean, I was in the halfway house, a buddy of mine
said, you need to reach out to this guy, Danny. He runs this YouTube channel called,
called concrete and he's in the area. And I was like, well, why he's always got this guy on there
who talks about real estate. And I went, man, we want to talk to me about real estate. And he said,
yeah, well, he could, you should don't talk to him because you could, you could tell your story
or you, he could help you with the true crime thing. And I thought, okay, well, I'll try and
call him see if I'll answer some questions because, you know, nobody else had any answers.
And you were in the halfway house. I was in the halfway house. Yeah. So I talked to Danny a few
times. He, I sent him an email, he called me, or we arranged a time to talk. We talked for like
30 minutes or an hour. Then another time I talked to him again, then another time I talked to him
again. And he kept saying, you need to come on the podcast. And I was like, okay, well, I'm in
the halfway house. I can't. So what ended up happening was when I finally got out of the halfway
house, I've been out of the halfway house about a month or two. And Danny called me up one day and
said, listen, I had a guest fall through. I don't know the guy fall through a couple weeks ago.
I haven't put anything out in a week or two. I need a guest. You said you would come on the pod.
And I was like, I don't know, man. He was, you said, I answered your questions.
Oh, you bedded him. You said, you come on. And I was like, I did fucking say that.
So then I came on the podcast and I walked in and said, you know, let me tell my story. You said,
you said, yeah, how long does it take? And I said, man, I got a 15 minute version. I got a 45
minute version. I got a two hour version. What do you want? And he goes, two hours. Hell yeah.
I talked for two hours. And it ended up getting like, in the first couple months,
I think it got like a million. And then since it's got 700,000 or so, it's like a 1.7 million or
something. Yeah, that was the rise to fame. The full episodes at like 2 million, 1.8 million. And
then we posted another one that's got like one and a half million, like put a couple clips of it
that have millions of views. And that was history. And then I came back a few times. And I've got
other ones that came back where they're half a million, a million, like I don't think anything
ever got as much as the very first one. But you know, the algorithm's tired of me now and I'm
nobody. And now I'm just they're like, yeah, we're done with you. And so this, you know,
now I come on here and he said, no, Danny just said, he's like, look, let's, we're going to talk
a little bit about you first just to let people know who you are. He goes, because you know,
a lot of your podcasts flip a flop. He just said that's like, I just drove across the bridge.
I walk in and he goes, bro, your shit flops. You just invited me to come. Oh my God.
It's mean spirited. You know, that's not what I meant, man.
That's tough. That's tough. I got my girlfriends giving me shit about coming here.
Is she really? She's no, oh, by the way, she's no longer your girlfriend.
No, she's not my fiance. Your fiance. Congratulations, Matt Cox.
Yeah. Boy, let me tell you what a work that was, huh? I put in, I definitely put in my work, bro.
Hey, we have actually kind of seen that whole saga from the beginning, from the on to the off
to the gone and back. And this is the kind of thing I say. And then I get, then he'll put
this out in a week and she'll come home and I'll be like, Hey, what's going on? She'll go, nothing.
She saw the podcast. Will she watch these? Oh yeah. Really? I'm, listen,
she goes through all my comments. Like I really genuinely always felt like she wasn't paying
attention. Yeah. She didn't care. She didn't this. And now I realize she actually does go through
all my stuff constantly. That's how women are. And I'm like, you know, she'll go,
did you read this comment? I'm like, what, what, what comment? You know, this guy said this and
this and I'm like, when did you start reading my comment? She's, I've always read them. I just
never wanted you to know that I was reading them. So yeah. That's, that's interesting. That seems
like all, that's like the beginning stage of a relationship where the one, the lady or woman
is always going through every little detail of the man's personal life to make sure everything's
he's not getting sneaky. I am though. That he's not some con man. I was going to say,
I am like, she's like, you know, yeah, but you're not running around. No, no, I'm too old for that.
That's all they really care about. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, we got, we got engaged like a couple,
about a couple of weeks ago. Congratulations, Matt Cox. I figure that gives me six, six months,
maybe a year. And buys you another six. Are you going to be, are we going to be invited to the
wedding? Yeah, of course. I mean, I got to go. I'm assuming there's going to be a wedding. I don't
know. I got to talk to her. What kind of wedding could Matt Cox have? It would have to be small.
Like, it's got to be big. You got to have some good ideas. We got to rent somewhere sick. You know
what was funny? You know, Dan, Dan wise, they call him Art App Dan. He was in prison in Art App.
And he was saying, he's like, bro, you got to have a YouTube wedding. And I go, what is that?
Oh yeah, you should. Yeah. Like we got to bring cameras. We got to this. I was like, oh, I don't
know, man. Oh yeah. Like the Hulkster's wedding. What was his ring flare? Then when they filmed it.
Or no, maybe that was Bubba. When Hulk was the best man at Bubba's wedding.
Bubba the love sponge. That worked. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that did not work out too well.
No, Hulk was Bubba's best man. Oh, Hulk was Bubba's best man. Yes, you're right. You're right.
Wow. And this is the one where he, you know what else is, you know what else is crazy? That didn't
unfold too well. Yeah. You know what the craziest thing about the Bubba-Hulk relationship was? He
trusted him so much when Hulk went in to get his knee surgeries and his hip surgeries done,
because they put him up, made him unconscious. He made Bubba go in the room, the operating room,
to watch the doctors. They were best buds. Like because he's such a high, high,
profile, profile person. Because of that, Bubba made sure that he had to make sure the surgeon
was doing it right. No, the real reason that he had Bubba in there was to make sure that they
weren't like taking photos of him naked, taking photos of his fucking dick or his balls, whatever.
Yeah, like, did you see that? Was it Joan Rivers or something? Like she was out and they're like
taking pictures selfies with her and stuff, and then she died on the table. No. No. So they got
all these selfies and then she dies. They're like, oh, fuck. Oh, hell no. Inappropriate. So, fuck.
I had no, and that's those photos on the internet? I'm sure. I'm potting me, I'm sure.
Austin's, they're definitely on Reddit. No, because I remember it was a big deal. They were like,
like, maybe if you were more concerned about your patient and less concerned about getting
selfies. She might not have died. Yeah, that's what they're saying, but who knows. She was old.
Joan Rivers. Instead of trying to get pictures of fucking Joan Rivers tits, why don't you try to
save her life? So anyway, Matt Cox's wedding. That sounds fun. Where are we going to have it?
Right, like so. We gotta call the doctor. The doctor will fund it. Oh, the doctor will fund it.
The doctor. Oh, see, just, he, listen, he loves that. He loves being out there. Yeah. The doctor.
He'll set us up somewhere nice. Yeah, that's, that's, that might be true. That might be true.
The doctor will be the best man. Shout out to the doctor. I think the doctor will be the best man.
He's, listen, I know when he's, when he's busy and when he's not, like he'll have a four or five
days where he's busy. I don't hear from him at all. And then he'll have like a, a slow day or
something. And I mean, I get TikToks all day. He sends him due. I'm just like, man.
Yeah, he's, uh, yeah. Where does he live again? I was just, does it heal it down in Fort Myers?
No, no, he, he did live in Fort. Oh, that's right. He did live a little bit further. He was like
Venice. No, Venice is Naples. Where the little islands down there? Like Sanibel.
Sanibel got total. Yeah. Yeah. Like Sanibel Island is where I think he lived.
Sanibel got like the worst. Sanibel was right in the middle of that.
It's not funny, but yeah, they got smoked. He was there. Then he moved, then he moved.
I forget where he moved, but then now he, I think he lives in Texas. He's moved a couple of times.
Oh really? Yeah. Interesting. What kind of, he must not have like a dedicated practice,
like hospital that he works at. What kind, I wonder, huh? I don't know. I don't know how
medical. He's very, he's a very mysterious doctor. He is a very mysterious. He's a very,
I don't even know. I don't even know. To be honest, like I know his name.
I'm not even sure it's his real name. I don't even know if I know his real name.
So do you know anyone who got fucked up by that hurricane? Jess has a friend who just bought a house
and she was sending pictures like, I mean, it's underwater. The roof got ripped off.
The, it's got, you know, you can see all the dry walls, you know,
roof gets ripped off, then it rains inside the ceiling and the dry walls all hanging down.
Yeah. Yeah, it's bad. Dude, our beach, the beach right across, you know, the beach, you
can hit a golf ball and hit the beach from here. So like right over the bridge here,
it was shut down for like three days straight and they put the cops put, like sit there.
There's like six cop cars on each side of the bridge to make sure no cars go over.
And we were going over because his grandma has the, the residents pass to go over to the beach
because she lives over there on the beach. So we were going over there every single day just
checking on it and it never really got that crazy. Like that photo you sent me of my kids
at on the beach. Yeah. We went over there and we were hanging on the beach for a couple hours,
like, like running around. I'm like, are you going to be okay? You know, you need anything.
And he's like, yeah, we're riding out there. You're on the beach with the kids. I'm like,
wow, he's not worried at all. No, it's nothing, man. We got lucky, man. It curved.
We even with Irma, we did the same thing with Irma. We were like right on the beach right,
like the fucking eight hours before Irma made landfall and Irma was projected to hit us up until
maybe like four hours before it took her far right. We'll get lucky over here. For some reason.
They said we've, they haven't had like a devastating direct hit over here on this side,
like a hundred plus years in this area. I know that's scary, right? The clock is ticking.
Oh, it's been, listen, the longer clock, the better chance there is is going to happen. I mean,
I can't dodge every bullet. No, but if you look at like, if you look at the shape of the
Gulf of Mexico, you can tell that there's, it looks like fucking thousands and thousands of
hurricanes have gone right up through there and just taken all that out and they've eaten it all
away just by the shape of the bottom half of the United States, you know, and it could like
I wonder if eventually due to, you know, whatever kind of weather events or climate changer,
if like New Orleans and that whole area will eventually just sink into the fucking ocean,
like they say Miami sinking into the ocean. Miami sinking into the ocean? Yeah, you didn't know
that. You ever seen the Dan Pena video? No. They're saying the climate change, the climate change
people. Oh, the guy who screams and hollers, the old guy, he's, okay. So there's a video.
The guy's wild as hell. There's a video. Boziak loves him. Oh, that's Boziak. If he was rich and
old, that'd be Boziak. I could see that. There's a video of this lady, this guy's like, I don't know
what Dan Pena's story is. He's some sort of like, he lives, I think he lives in the UK. I have no
idea. He lives in the UK. He's some sort of real big real estate, like billionaire, I guess,
and some lady at some conference asked him a question about climate change and flying jets
around. Doesn't exist. He actually made a really good point, an interesting point,
about real estate. He goes, all these fucking beachfront condos and beachfront homes in Miami
and all up and down the East Coast and everywhere you go, you think the banks would loan money if
they thought these places would be underwater in 10, 20, 30 years. Typical mortgages on these
places are 40, how long are they? 40, 50 year mortgages? 30 to 40. Yeah. So they're saying if
these banks thought that climate change and the elevation of the oceans rising were going to take
out these properties, they wouldn't invest in them. But I don't know, they might because if you look
at the history of banks, they don't really give a fuck about the long term. They just care about
the short, I mean, if you look at the housing crash and all the other shit, like the shit you
were involved in in the 2006 crash, the banks clearly weren't that competent to look deep into
the fucking, the loans and the mortgages. Well, yeah, they were, I mean, it was just their
belief that it couldn't crash for some reason. So they just weren't concerned because they just
didn't think the entire economy could collapse. Well, bankers aren't like economists, right?
Bankers aren't. Almost none of the economists saw it coming, you know, like it was amazing,
like so few people saw it coming. And until like those people are now like, you know,
they, everybody thinks they're, they're fortune tellers now, they're like, oh my gosh, you know,
they're like, what about all the signs were there? Like he, you know, why people just weren't looking,
people just believe that it just couldn't collapse. And, you know, did you see the big
short? Yeah, what's the guy's name again? I forget the guy's name. The guy that Christian
Beall plays? Yeah, he's great. So that's such a good movie. It's a great, it's a great movie.
It's an amazing movie. Yeah. It's great movie because like I was mentioned this because I
was actually was talking about it today, is that if you watch too big to fail, like that shows it
from like the top up, like what's happening, you never really, you know, you don't, you don't
understand it on a, on a very small level, like what's what was really right. Like you're looking
down like, hey, bad things are happening. Here's why you never really get a sense, but with the big
short, they really take you in. Like this is the problem. This one guy, this one girl, this one,
like these brokers, these brokers because of these, like they show you the whole thing and then you
start to go down to the very bottom. Right. And then you're like, is that enough? Well, it is if you
start adding zero. So eventually it's just massive upside down, you know, pyramid that just collapses.
He's that king of diamonds in Miami getting a lap dance and the strippers telling him about all
our condos. Yeah. Yeah. And he's like, how many do you have? He's like, I thought you just had one
and she's like, no, I have seven. Oh man, unbelievable. Red flag. It's a great scene.
Hey, pull up that Dan Pena video. I want to show that to Matt. Pardon this brief interruption,
but I want to take a minute to talk about this incredible supplement that I've been using for
over a year now, after it was recommended to me by nutritional scientist Dr. Dominic D'Agostino
on this podcast. I take Dom's advice when it comes to anything related to nutrition, diet,
and longevity, because as we get older, these things become more and more important. That is
why I started using Verso. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific
breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase longevity. I take cell being this one
right here, which contains nicotinamide mononucleotide or NMN based supplement paired with naturally
derived micronized trans resveratrol and TMG. These two chemicals are actually precursors to what's
called nicotinamide idonine dinonucleotide, which is commonly known as NAD. And NAD is essentially
the precursor to energy cell repair and longevity. If you've ever tried fasting or even intermittent
fasting and you've gotten that feeling of super high energy or mental clarity is because your body
is activating these genes called certuans, which are actually longevity genes. The downside is as
we age, NAD declines. When I found out I could naturally increase my body's activation of certuans
and naturally activate my body's production of NAD, I was sold. And it is so much more affordable
than doing NAD IV drips. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code concrete at checkout to
save 15% on your entire order. That's K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E at checkout and get 15% off your entire order,
or you can just go to ver.so slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E. It's linked below. Back to the show.
I interviewed a guy today. I interviewed a guy today who's a foreclosure attorney.
I texted it to you.
Yeah.
He's a foreclosure attorney and he was doing foreclosures when I was in E-war City,
running my scams. And so he's like, I don't know if I foreclosed on any of the properties that you
were involved in, but I did a whole podcast with him talking about foreclosures for like two hours.
Oh, did you really?
You think he did some on yours?
No. I mean, he said he didn't have any idea. But it was just interesting to talk to him.
Like, I could have talked to that guy forever. I don't know if anybody will ever watch the video.
He was doing it at the same time?
Yeah. He was for the banks. He was foreclosing on people for the banks. And he's like, you know,
and so we started just talking about the different things. And he had read my book.
I actually went to a podcast. I went to a podcast meeting and he was there. And it's funny because
like I was leaving and I said, oh, I understand. So you're an attorney. He was like, right.
And I was like, yeah, I don't know. I run a like a YouTube channel here in Tampa.
If you're ever interested in coming in, I said, I mean, it's true crime. He goes, I know who you
are, Mr. Cough. And I was like, and he goes, I read your book and I went, I started laughing.
I go, I look at Jess and I go, and I'm looking at him.
Totally serious. And I was like, um, yeah, well, yeah, definitely. You know, I was like,
if you're interested, he goes, okay. And but then a month or two went by and he contacted me and
was like, he came on. Yeah, he came on. Much nicer. He just seemed initially, I was like,
did that seem odd to you? She was, yeah, he didn't seem like he thought it was funny.
I said, no, he didn't. But he was super cool when he came on today.
Maybe the star struck. I'm interested to hear your take on this. Let's watch it.
Well, first of all, he's definitely one of the 10 feet thing. Yeah. Second of all,
in Miami, even on the beaches here in Florida, all throughout the Carolinas, if you want to build
any kind of new construction on the beach or anywhere near the beach on the barrier island,
you have to have the first whole fucking, like 20 feet of the building has to be solid concrete
on habitable space like parking garages and shit. So that's definitely a thing.
That doesn't necessarily mean it's because of the rising sea level.
They don't say it's probably more insurance. It could be for insurance. It could be for flooding.
It could be, you know, it could be for hurricanes. It could be like,
for sure. That's that's the reason why, yeah, for like floods and stuff and for water. That's
basically the same thing. It'd be saying that the sea level rises, they wouldn't invest in these
construction buildings. These giants, you know, high rises are not one motherfucker.
You know, the problem with, you know, the problem with my view is that much like,
what's his name again? Dan Pena. Dan Pena. Dan Pena's view, although I'd like to think my pitch
would be way better, is that it's similar to his only because there are so many people making money
at it that it's like, it's like COVID, you know what I'm saying? So it's, you know, like they
put themselves in a position to make a bunch of money, then they create a crisis that they are
able to profit from. And then nobody says anything like, you know, COVID, like, you know,
it's the same thing. Like, where are the hundreds of thousands of people and millions or half a
million people that died from COVID? Like, you know, I mean, people died, you know, it was a really bad
cold. But if 40 to 60,000 people a year die from the cold, and a two or 300,000 died from COVID,
okay, well, you're right, it's double triple. But, you know, where were the millions? Oh,
no, we fixed it really, because other countries that didn't do the same things that we did,
there's, they didn't have a problem. You know what I'm saying? Like, there are other countries
that just didn't shut down at all. They're like, yeah, we're done, we're a mask, but we're just
going to keep going. And that whole country's still there. Do they have some deaths? Yeah,
they had some deaths. Like, it's the same thing, you know, to me, global warming is like,
is the planet, you know, is it warming? Yeah, would it do it without us? Yeah.
You know, would it, are we contributing to it? Probably. But the problem is, it's like padding
a file, right? So if I investigate you, there's a murder and there's five or six of us. And the
police believe that Danny did it. Then what they do is they interview enough people, and the people
that all agree that Danny has said something bad about hat rack and they're gonna, they there have
been a bad blood and he was, had talked about it and I heard him say something and this and that.
Those are the ones that they really write everything out. The other guys that say, well,
you know, there were some issues between the two of them and they go, okay, but do you know,
you know, well, no, I don't think, but he didn't kill him. I know he didn't. I think this. I think,
okay, so, so you don't really know. No. Well, no, I don't. Okay. So then they put, well, I talked to
him, but he was non-responsive, right? They only really focus on the people that support their
theory. So when you're done, you have 150 people that were interviewed and you've got 40 people
that 100% say that Danny killed hat rack, you know. And so the other people were all like, yeah,
he didn't see anything. He didn't have anything conclusive. He didn't really have anything. So
they really only focus on the people that support them. And before you know it, all you've got is
people that say that you murdered him. And the truth is, it was, you know, it could have been
anybody else. There were other people who had stronger motives. And then if you go to trial,
then they just put those people on the stand, you know, because the prosecution can't do a
thorough investigation like the police can. And it's the same thing like, so if you, if I'm saying,
hey, I want to come up with a whole, I want to come up with a, do a whole investigation into
global warming. I need money from the government to support my, my, you know, my scientific endeavor,
my, my experiments or whatever they go, okay, they get, oh, it's for global warming. Okay,
so you think there's global warming? Yeah, I absolutely believe there is. And I think this
will help prove it here. Now, if you say, no, actually, the data I've covered so far doesn't
prove that there is global warming. I need a, a grant. They go, yeah, we're not, we're not, uh, no,
no, we're not gonna work. Now, if that same guy came back said, listen, I've, we've done a lot
of things. We found some, we think there's definitely global warming. They go, would you
need some money? But before you know it, all you have is scientists that are out there that are
in support of global warming. They get to talk on CNN. They get to talk on all these platforms.
They get pushed. They get funded. The people that are saying that it's not really a thing.
Like is there a contribution? Well, sure, probably. But the people that are saying, no,
and I have proof, don't get funding. They don't get picked up and get, they don't get to talk on
CNN. They don't get invited to the conferences. Before you know it, they just kind of fall to
the wayside. Like you can prove anything with enough money. I mean, listen, I used to tell
people that cigarettes were good for your lungs. And there was science behind it. Like, oh, no,
we did a study. We got 400 people and we did this and we did that. And the capacity of the, come on,
man, are you serious? Like it's, you know, it's the same things that we think. And by the way,
when I was growing up and the concept, like they act like this concept came up in like 2005 or
something like that. Listen, I heard, I was hearing about it when I was in school. And like fourth
and fifth grade, there were, there were tech books that were talking about global warming.
But, and by the way, so within 30 years, like half of Florida was supposed to be gone. We're
still here. Yeah. And what happened? There's tons of countries out there that aren't even agreeing
with any of this. Like China's not cutting back. Yeah. Not at all. Right. But you have to pay money
in. If you, if you put out this much of a carbon footprint on your factory, you have to pay in this
money and this money. Why are we paying in all this money? These other countries aren't paying
in any money. Yeah. Like how much have we really, you know, cut back? I don't, I don't, I just don't,
I just don't, I just don't see it. And it's like, Oh, well, the proof, yeah, the proof now, but in
six months or six years or 50 years. Listen, 100 years from now, people might be laughing their
ass off. Listen, these guys thought. Yeah, they were warming the fucking planet. I'm gonna believe
this. As much as we laugh about people, you know, healing you by putting leeches on you and sucking
the bad blood out. It's like, yeah. Well, they try to make it into something way more than a
really, like people like, like that lady who is in the stands talking to Dan Pena. She's like,
my children, my children, what are you going to do? It's the same thing with like the vaccines.
People just, they make it a part of their fucking being. Like it's what it's like, like political
people, like, like hardcore Trump supporters, that that's part of their identity and who they are.
What's the same thing on the, you know, on the other side, like people get on both sides. Yeah,
both sides. Like I just didn't, it just, it just kills me when like, like you and I can't be friends
because you believe this and I believe it. Okay, well, why? So you believe that? Okay,
that's fine. I'm sure there's lots of things that we disagree on. Yeah. Why can't we be friends?
Right. Because you want to build housing funded by the government that supports pedophiles and
job molesters. Exactly. Why would you do that? You want a wall, you know, you want a wall and
that's wrong. I mean, bro, what are you talking about? I just want to secure the borders. I just
don't want people to come over here. Do you know Biden? I just heard, maybe you can Google this,
but Biden just like did something to fund some giant part of the wall, like fixing,
he just put a bunch of money into like filling in a gap of the wall
in Texas, I think. Just, you know, it's, and nobody covers it. It's not anywhere on CNN.
Well, did you see, was it, there was some mall shooting. I don't, I forget how long ago was
a few weeks ago. I saw a clip a few weeks ago where they were in like a mall or something. And
some guy pulled out a gun and started shooting people. And some other guy who had a carry permit
pulled his gun out and shot him from like 200 feet away and just killed him. Nobody covers it.
Nope. Yeah. Why? He legally had a gun and he killed the guy. And saved people. Right. Where's
gun control? What about the people that don't want? The guy who saved, who shot the bad guy,
he was illegally carrying a gun? He was legally carrying a gun. That's what I thought. I mean,
there's lots of, there's lots of stuff like that. You just never hear about it. I mean, it's just,
it's ridiculous. Yeah. It's the Andrew Tate thing with me and these, me and these people in Los
Angeles. Well, you and these people, what do you mean? Oh, I didn't tell you. It's the Los Angeles
people. What are you talking about? Oh my God. So I was doing a, I was, I was, I hired or partnered
with, I partnered with a company that I was doing a true crime series on, you know,
on me being in prison, interviewing these guys and writing their stories. So this guy was for a
company called Little Everywhere. It's a podcast company. I listened to some of their stuff. Like,
I'd actually gone out, gone to Los Angeles and met with them. The guy's name was Dan and, I mean,
it was really nice. Like there was two people I met them. They're super nice. And so I meet them
and, you know, we talked on and off and eventually we end up, you know, kind of,
bro, this could be a podcast on it in and of itself. I mean, honestly, this is a
fucking hour of long thing. I'll wrap it up that basically we started to make it. No,
you can talk about it. We got time. We started doing this. We started doing the series
about the first, it was going to be several different, several different stories I'd done,
right? Like I think it was going to be like Marcus Schringer. Like a TV series? No, no,
it was just a podcast, like an audio podcast for, and they sell theirs to like these big time
podcasts. Like they have a bunch of super cool podcasts. Like the nice serial, like the produced
podcast. Yes. Yeah. Heavily produced. Right. Amazing. Like great. They do great work. Yep.
It's like an audio documentary basically. Exactly. Exactly. I'm trying to think of what I had
listened to. They did, they did one on all different types of scams, like a multi-level
marketing scams and stuff. Really, really cool. So we met, we, or we met, we talked,
we negotiated for however long. Dan, super nice guy. And, you know, initially when we met,
it was going to happen right away. Like, you know, as soon as we're done, we're going to start taping,
you know? Okay. So we, we eventually come to an agreement and we're going to do like
Marcus Schringer story. Then we were going to do, what was it, another story? Then we're going to do
like, like Carrie's story. Then we were going to like, Carrie Lee, sorry, another story I wrote.
We were going to do Payne. We were going to do
Atonement. Like I have like three or four stories we're going to go over. So we start
recording one of the stories. It took months and months we record. Like I'm two hours here,
three hours here, four hours here. Like it really dragged on.
Are you recording them out there in Los Angeles?
No, no, we're doing it like, like they sent me a mic. The headset, the whole thing,
it's all going through. Not StreamYard, another, another company. So we did this whole thing.
I thought it was really coming out. I thought it was good. Dan was doing it. And, and then it,
then suddenly he got another project. He had to go do this, go do that. And it kept dragging and
dragging and dragging. Like half the stuff they said was going to happen on the timeframe it was
going to happen, didn't happen. But you know, that's fine. Like I was glad to, you know, be like,
they were like, it was going to be a real thing, right? Like this thing literally
was like over a year and change where they were going to have it done within very quickly.
Turned out they dragged me for over a year and change. Fine. Then Dan comes back and he says,
and he says, um, here's the thing. He said, we just got hooked up with another big production
company. I don't know if it was Apple or who, who this other, um, this other podcast type of, um,
whatever, um, thing was right, platform, like, I don't know who it was. Like it was like Apple or
yeah, somebody. Exactly. It was big. They just got in good with them. They were like, listen,
and they want true crime. They said, so Dan goes, the problem is Matt, like, we didn't do a great
job the first time. He was, and I thought it was good. And he said, the problem is you and I became
much more friendly towards the end, joking around, getting to know each other and having fun with it.
He said, then we did the, initially he was, so would it bother you if we redid the whole thing?
And I thought, this is like 12 hours or something, 12, whatever. And I was like, you know,
but I'm going to be a good sport. Yeah. No problem. I said, no problem, bro. I mean,
I want to get the best result possible. Like, you know, um, and keep in mind too,
like the deal we worked out was great for me. Not, not, not great for me. It was a good solid
deal. Like I'm, I'm getting so much money per episode, which I hadn't been paid one time.
Like it was supposed to be every episode, but that's fine. That didn't happen. That's fine.
Then once they sell the series, all of the, I was going to get a portion of the,
of the revenue that created from the, either the sale of the show or, and the back end. Like if
it, sometimes they just put it up and you get the ad revenue, sometimes the place just buys it from
you. Either way, I got a portion of that. So I'm looking to make a chunk of money and have a really
good version of my stories out there. And then those stories, I get to keep a portion of the
intellectual property. If it's sold, like a lot of these things are being turned it, and they had
some that had been optioned and were being turned into things. So I'm excited. Things are good.
We start doing it again. We get about halfway through the whole thing. And now they've hired,
they've hired a girl named Joy. Joy is a, what do you call that?
Shoot their websites on there. I forget. Joy's, it's, yeah, wait, what Joy is,
I don't know, what, what, what do you call her? What do they call her?
Whatever. She's like a video, like a producer, video producer.
Okay. So, and I think I pretty much talked to everybody there.
Who's that calling you?
No, I don't know. That's Mike Hudson. So anyway, yeah, that's Dan.
So you got neck tattoos.
Yeah, he was in some band. He was in like a big time band or something.
A modest mouse, it says. He was in Modest Mouse.
After years touring and recording with bands, Modest Mouse.
Damn. That's wild. Right.
Okay.
Super nice guy. Joy, Joy seemed, Joy seemed nice. We start redoing all the things again.
Great. We're redoing it again.
Halfway. Oh, actually almost done.
Because we were at the point where like shrinker was like, had like jumped out of the airplane
and you know, that kind of stuff, right?
And at one point when we were sitting there, I was talking about the financial crisis.
We got to the point where the financial crisis that happened and,
and basically Bernie Madoff had gotten arrested.
And that kind of uncovered Marcus shrinker scam where he was running a Ponzi scheme.
One of the schemes he was doing was a Ponzi scheme.
So that ended up, I said, as a result of that, people started wanting their money back
and want to know where their money was.
And now it very quickly unraveled that he's running a Ponzi scheme himself.
And so as we're talking about it, all of a sudden Joy kind of just starts shaking her head,
right? Because I'm on like Streamyard or Zoom or something.
Yeah.
No, she kind of just starts shaking her head.
Yeah.
And I remember going, and I could see she shaking her head.
Dan could see she's shaking her head.
And I think Dan said, Joy, something wrong.
Yeah.
And Joy goes, keep in mind, they're in California.
Yeah, yeah.
And Joy says, well, it just got me thinking about, you know, just this whole government in general.
And okay.
And I, you know, I didn't say anything.
And then he goes, what do you mean, Joy?
She goes, you know, just what a scam the whole system is, you know,
it's this whole system that's set up by these old white guys that just set up this whole system.
And she said, you know, it's just, it's just all basically she said, it's just all a scam.
And I was like, and so I'm sitting there like, it's such an odd thing to say in the middle
of this conversation.
Yeah.
And so then.
She's recording with you?
She's one of the producers.
She's on.
But she doesn't have a microphone.
She's not part of the show.
No, she doesn't.
Well, I don't know yet because I have never heard of an episode.
Keep in mind that this is over a year in change.
They've been having me do these.
Right.
But you're never produced anything.
I like, I've never heard anything.
But so, so to get, I'm trying to understand like what the dynamic dynamic is.
You're sitting in your house recording on, on a microphone and you're looking at them on
telling the story.
Oh, by the way, they had me build out a whole thing with a mic.
Like I've invested hundreds of dollars into this whole thing, this whole production,
so that I can get the best, I'm in a closet with all of these,
the, what do you, the styrofoam?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The whole thing is like, I mean like soundproofing.
Soundproofing, like it's perfect in a closet, carpet, the soundproofing, the mics, everything.
Yeah.
And so I'm sitting there and the way it's supposed to work is like, Dan is going to
be asking me questions and I'm telling him a story and he would interject every once
along we'd laugh.
But now she's involved too, whether or not she was going to be a part of the program,
I don't know.
Yeah.
You know, they never got that far.
So we're now on like 20 some odd hours of doing this and at least.
And so she says, you know, oh, a bunch of old white guys set up the system, this and
that, it's completely rigged.
And I was like, okay, right.
And she's like, you know, just, it's just so, it's the whole thing's unfair.
And this whole like, she starts in with like the constitution and all kinds of stuff.
And I'm kind of like, okay.
And then, you know, I don't want to, like I don't want to jump on it.
Yeah.
I don't want to jump on it because I already get this vibe.
She's young.
They're in California.
She's ready to snap.
They're extremely liberal.
Yeah.
Like, I'm not going to say anything.
Okay.
And then Dan said, makes a comment like, Matt, what do you think about that?
And I went, he just spiced it up.
And I remember thinking, don't say anything.
You know, like, you know, I'm sure that we have very different views.
And I looked and I went, so I said, you know, here's the way I look at it, Joy.
I said, things aren't always out there.
They seem.
And I said, I get it.
Like you're unhappy.
I said, but let me put it like this.
I said, do you know what is a wonderful concept?
And she goes, what?
I said, communism, communism and socialism and those types of government,
you know, ideologies are wonderful.
We all work together collectively.
We share in the fruits of our labor.
We're all in it together.
Everything is equal.
I said, it's a wonderful concept.
It doesn't work.
It's never successfully worked.
It never will because at their heart, people will look out for themselves.
There is corruption.
It is everywhere.
And she's, oh, you don't, you don't think that we're a corrupt society?
I go, I do, but I think we're one of the least corrupt society.
Not that there's not corruption, but one of the least.
I said, now, you know, it's a horrible concept.
And she goes, what?
I go, I said, capitalism is horrible.
You take advantage of people.
You work hard to be over other people.
You get to keep the fruits of your labor and other people.
I said, it's horrible.
I go, but it works.
And I said, and if you're not happy with it,
there's lots of countries in Europe that I'm sure you'll be happy with.
Send me a postcard.
I said, I mean, you know, and I wish you well.
You know, yeah, like, like, you know, I get it.
Like I understand not everybody's happy.
And I said, so, I said, so what else are we doing?
And I could see it in our face.
Steven.
She's upset.
Yeah.
We finish out the whole thing.
It's fine.
A week later, we have another meeting.
We set it up.
We're doing everything.
Everything's fine.
We're going on this and that, this and that.
I can feel Joy's irritated.
She already doesn't like me.
Well, first of all, I'm an old white guy.
Yeah.
So I can tell there's tension there.
And so as we're going, something happens.
And I forget what she said, but she said something about,
like I mentioned something about Marcus Shrinker and, you know,
I might have mentioned something about his girlfriend or he had a girlfriend
and he put her in a condo down the street from his wife.
And I don't know exactly what that situation was.
But I said something that sparked her to say,
it was still out of like, once again, it came out of nowhere.
It's like, she was looking for an opportunity to inject.
She's waiting for something.
Right.
And it was like, that didn't really make sense, but okay.
And she threw in, she's like, wait, she's like, you know,
it just makes me think about all these misogynistic men like Andrew Tate
and, and you know what she said?
She said something about, she said something about Gary Vee.
I never got to the bottom of that.
I know, like, I don't think of Gary Vee as being misogynistic,
but, but I don't know.
I don't watch too, I watch some of his stuff, but so she said something
about Andrew Tate and I said, yeah, what about that?
Right.
I said, like they took that dude off of everything.
And then she said, she goes, why wouldn't they?
She goes, he's a, he's a sex trafficker.
And I went, what?
She says, he's a sex trafficker.
And I went, I said, I actually had, I said, you know, I said,
Joy, I think I know what you're talking about.
I said, because I've heard him talk about this.
I said, you understand?
I said, he wasn't there.
He wasn't, he was arrested because there was a girl that was at his party.
She was, she was, he was holding people, um, against their will.
He was sex trafficking.
And I went, no, I said, that's not what I heard.
And she was, what did you hear?
And I said, I heard from Andrew Tate.
He had been arrested at, he was having a party.
There was an American girl at the party in Romania.
The girl was talking, was texting with her boyfriend.
He said, if I want you to leave the party.
And she said, I can't leave the party.
I'm not able to leave.
And she stopped responding to his texts.
He got nervous.
He called the local police.
The police came out.
They arrested Andrew Tate.
When they got her down, downtown,
after they printed him and arrested him and his brother,
I think it was him and his brother.
The girl said, admitted that, look, I was at the party.
I didn't want to tell my boyfriend that I didn't want to leave.
And this is what I texted him.
And they said, oh, okay.
And they dropped the charges.
Okay.
So I said, that's what, I said, now that got turned into other things.
And people are saying he's a sex trafficker.
I said, but mostly people are saying that are basically women that hate him.
And so Dan doesn't even know who Andrew Tate is.
And so she says, she goes, that's not true.
She goes, he was arrested.
And I went, I understand he was arrested, but the charges were dropped.
She goes, yeah, well, who knows why?
I said, well, here's the thing, Joy.
I said, if you arrest me for murder, you don't get to throw me in prison
and keep me in prison forever.
I said, there's due process.
I said, so anybody can be accused of rape or anything, get arrested.
Then they go through the process.
I said, obviously they didn't have enough to charge him.
They dropped it.
I said, so I'm not going to throw someone in jail because she goes,
he should be in jail.
And I go, I'm not going to throw somebody in jail because you accused him of something.
Yeah.
You have to have proof.
You know, like it's always sounds good when you're some young girl
who's never been through the system as opposed to, and then the next time
somebody blames says, she did this and she didn't, they arrest her.
She'll be like, this is so unfair.
What do you mean?
I'm being treating you the way you wanted to treat everybody else.
So I say, yeah, yeah, that's not what I heard.
That's not this.
And I'm trying to be nice about it, bro.
And then Dan, Dan throws in something that makes a comment about something
and something else and says something.
And then he says, you know, Matt, he goes, a year ago, but no, I know.
I said, I said, look, I said, just because you disliked the guy,
doesn't mean that everything he says is wrong.
I said, I certainly don't believe in censorship.
And she went, I don't think he should be censored.
And she went, why?
And I was like, I think because you just kind of shouldn't be censoring people.
I said, just because you disagree with one thing that he said,
doesn't mean that everything, I've heard him say stuff that I disagree with.
I've heard him say stuff that I do agree with.
And she says, and Dan says, like, what?
And she says, like, what?
What do you agree with?
And she's disgusted now, by the way, because I haven't been adamant
that he should be, he should be hung and beaten to death.
Furious that he didn't get locked away in a Romanian prison,
because some girl accused, or some girl's boyfriend,
she didn't even say it.
And they dropped the charges.
So, okay.
So I'm like, well, I'll give you an example.
I said, I said, I heard this and I thought this was kind of funny.
And she goes, they were like, what's that?
I said, for instance, I said, one time he was saying,
like, as a man, you have to work your entire life.
You work your whole life.
You'd make all the right decisions.
You work hard.
You work 68 hours a week.
You save your money.
You make the right calls.
You take risks.
You eventually end up getting,
you eventually end up buying $100 million.
You've got tons of money.
You end up building like you buy a $100 million yacht.
As a woman, you can be a 22-year-old hot chick with a makeup kit.
Get on that yacht and end up with it.
And what I mean by that, I think it's pretty obvious.
She ends up hooking up with a guy.
Maybe she gets pregnant.
They get married.
They get divorced.
She ends up with a yacht.
Like, that's pretty self-evident.
And she's like, they're like, what does that mean?
I go, in my experience, as a woman, as an attractive woman,
you can get a lot from a guy.
You can get a lot in general.
Amber Heard.
Listen, and so now she's furious.
She's disgusted.
And she goes, what?
And she's just like, and I go, look, let me give you, I said,
just, she goes, in my experience, that's not case at all.
I've worked hard for what I've got.
I did it, and I said, I don't doubt that at all.
I don't doubt that you've worked hard for what you have.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying, in general, it's possible.
And I said, let me give you an example.
Example of this would be, I said, I met my wife, my ex-wife.
I said, I met my ex-wife.
She came in the office, filled out a thing.
I asked her out.
We went out a couple of times.
Two months later, she's pregnant.
She gets pregnant.
I, you know, the alternative of her, you know, having an abortion
or whatever, like, that's not something I'm interested in doing.
And she's like, well, I want to get married then.
I say, okay, we'll get married.
You know, if we get married, we'll get married.
Then if it doesn't work out, we'll get divorced.
We get married.
I said, I end up buying her 54 rental properties
over the course of a year, all fraud.
In her name, she's got over a couple million dollars
worth of real estate at this point.
Things go bad for me.
I get arrested.
I'm, now I'm not going to be providing income.
She's not interested.
It's a bad marriage.
We break up.
We get a divorce.
I give her $100,000 to pay off her credit cards,
pay off her car, give her a couple thousand dollars a month
for child support.
She keeps all the real estate in the house, everything.
I walk away with my clothes after three years.
And I, and I look at Joy and I said,
do you know what she did to acquire all of that?
And she goes, what?
I said, she was pretty.
She married you.
And she married me.
I said, so my experience is that a woman has the option.
A pretty woman can get pretty far.
I said, so, and now she's furious.
Now that's my experience.
I know lots of guys who have been taken to the cleaners.
Like that's a real thing.
You can look it up.
How many people have, do you know?
Tiger Woods.
Well, not just that, but look, look, it's, it's unfair.
It's unfair that if you and I, not you and I,
but me and some woman we meet, she gets pregnant.
I don't want to have the baby.
She says, I'm going to have the baby.
She has the baby.
I now have to pay child support from here on out.
Like that's not fair.
But if she says, I don't want to have the baby,
she can have an abortion.
I can say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you, you,
I want to keep that baby.
We'll, I'll keep it.
I'll raise it.
You can pay child support.
You know, you don't think it's fair
that you should have to pay child support
if you get a girl pregnant, just a baby?
No, I don't think it's fair that
that it's her decision.
Yeah.
What if I, what, you're telling me the girl's pregnant.
And I say, listen, I don't want to have anything
to do with the kid, have an abortion.
And she says, no, okay, well, I don't want to have a baby.
You're the one who fucked her and got her pregnant.
She wasn't there.
She's 50%, wasn't she 50% there?
Yeah, she should have, she should have been on the pill.
She should have said, we're a condom.
She could have contributed to, she was a part of it.
She was 50, 50 in this.
Right.
She wants, she wants the baby.
Then you can have the baby.
Why should I have to pay child support
if I don't want to have the baby?
You're making me have to pay the, right.
You see, it's a double standard.
If I say, fine, have the baby, I'll take the baby.
You don't want anything to do with the baby.
You don't have an abortion.
I'll take the baby and you have to pay me child support.
That's the reverse.
But guess what?
That's not okay with you.
That's what you're saying.
Right.
Now I'm not, I get it, society, that's the way it is.
It's a double standard.
I get it.
That's fine.
I'm okay.
I'll pay child support.
My point is people don't look at it that way.
So what I'm saying is I have this conversation with, with Joy.
She then starts talking about white men getting, having privilege.
And, and I agree, you know, there, there's been some privilege there for absolutely.
And so we have that conversation.
I said, you know, but Joy, the problem is, I said, I, I said, you're making it sound
like she just hated all white people, all white men, hated them all.
They were all wrong.
They all got preferential and she, if they had anything,
it's because they stole it from someone.
And I'm like, you know, the problem is,
you know, the problem is I said, I know lots of guys that simply worked hard,
came up with an invention, came up with a, some kind of a system,
came up with a business, worked hard and made a lot of money.
I said, now whether they're white or black doesn't make a difference.
I know people like this.
I'm sure there are black people that the same thing has happened.
So it doesn't, at this point, I backed myself into a corner.
I couldn't get out of.
Yeah, you're done.
At this point, she's now telling me that I'm a racist.
Yeah, you're right.
She's telling you that?
Oh, she's, she's saying, not just that, listen, this is,
this was when I stopped talking.
At this point, when she said, you know, it's racism, it's misogynistic,
and I'm like, what are you talking about?
She ends up saying, and she goes, you don't have any idea.
She's that woman on the boat that you were talking about?
I went, yeah.
And I'm keeping my composure.
She's not.
So she's that woman on the boat.
She goes, she's, she's not just is that, that unfair.
She's, it's, it's, she's for one thing.
She's, and she's in danger.
And I went, she's in what?
She's, she's in danger.
And I went being on that boat with some old white guy.
And I went, what do you talk?
Nobody said anybody was in danger.
She went on the boat voluntarily.
She ends up hooking up with the guy voluntarily.
She chose that.
And she's, no, she's in danger.
And I looked at her and I went joy by that logic.
I go, every woman everywhere is always in danger.
And she goes, exactly, exactly.
That's it.
Now you get it.
And I went, okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
I get it.
Then Dan says, you know, I'm at a year ago when we started this project.
Exactly.
A fucking year ago.
You've wasted a fucking year of my time.
A year.
You guys have been dragging me on this.
So he goes a year ago.
When we started this project, he said, I went to look up this thing.
It was a, it was a, there was a local news program in Georgia that was looking for me
and the chick I was on the run with, right?
And they called us, you know, John and Jane Doe.
And there was a broadcast about it.
He goes, you know, the John and Jane Doe broadcast where the Secret Service was looking
for, you know, right?
He goes, a year ago, I was able to find that.
I go, okay.
He goes, I looked for it the other day.
I said, okay.
And he said, I wasn't able to find it.
And I went, okay, like, how did this come?
This is out of nowhere.
And I went, okay.
He goes, he said a year ago when I looked you up and I was looking for it.
He goes, there was one or two videos.
He goes, there's hundreds of videos of you now.
It's all I could find with these videos.
And I went, okay.
And he said, what are you saying on these videos?
He's disgusted by me now, by the way.
The look on his face, I don't know.
He's on Teen Joy.
So it's like, he goes, he says, I'm disgusted.
He said, he says, I've been looking and there's hundreds of videos.
And I went, he goes, what are you saying in these videos?
What is he referring to?
What videos?
All the YouTube, all my videos.
Podcasts?
Yeah.
Podcasts.
Yeah.
YouTube.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Podcasts.
Yeah.
YouTube, YouTube videos.
Everything.
Yeah.
And I went, okay.
And he said, I, what are you saying on these videos?
And I went, I don't know.
I said, just I interview, I interview, you know, criminals.
You know what I do?
Yeah.
And he's disgusted.
And he looks at me and he goes, are you saying misogynistic, racist things like this?
Now I'm a race.
Now it's racism.
Yeah.
He goes, are you like, this is a chick who's saying,
by the way, when I mentioned, when she was talking about Andrew Tate,
and I said, yeah, yeah.
And Dan said, who's Andrew Tate?
And I said, ah, he's this guy.
I said, and she goes, he's a racist.
And I went, I'm pretty sure he's black.
And she goes, she goes, no, she's, he's mixed.
And I go, his father's black.
Andrew Tate's father's black?
Yeah.
Really?
I didn't know that.
And she goes, she goes, no, he's mixed.
He's mixed.
I'm just like, like, she's like, I am really being attacked by this chick.
This guy, Dan, he ain't doing nothing.
Yeah, yeah.
Nothing.
He'd been spicing it up the whole time anyway.
Yeah.
He's, he's not helping me at all.
He's turned in.
I think you set this up.
Oh, listen, it's, it's horrible.
I mean, there's nothing I can do.
And I'm not honest to be honest.
Like I felt like I was being attacked.
So I wasn't trying to say anything.
Like I wasn't trying to say, like, look, you know, the whole thing is like,
and this is the thing.
There's nothing you can say.
Like me explaining, look, I have tons of friends that are black,
like my buddy Zach, you know,
I got, you know, Juan is a buddy of mine.
Big Herk.
He's a big Herk.
We're good friends.
We're like this.
So, um, yeah.
So I mean, it's, it's like, I, I, I have no problem with, with anybody.
My ex-wife was Puerto Rican.
You know what I'm saying?
Like my son's half Puerto Rican.
Like it's like, what, what, what are you doing?
You know what I'm saying?
Like, what do you, she's desperate to try and turn me into this evil.
I don't know.
Old white guy, what she said.
Racist, misogynist.
Right.
Multiple times.
So I'm not even trying at this point.
It's like, I don't even want to talk to the new people.
Yeah.
Like I'm done.
But Dan says, what are all these videos?
And I'm like, I don't, I don't know, Dan.
I'm just interviewing.
I said, I just interviewed because are you saying racist?
Like misogynistic thing.
I'm like, racist.
Like what the fuck?
Like she's saying, oh, women are in danger.
Like my girlfriend's not in danger.
I even asked Jess when she came home, baby, do you feel like you're in danger
when you go to work and I'm not around?
Like, or, or in general, and she goes from what?
And I was like, and I told her what happened and she was like,
Jess would probably put an ass weapon on you.
Oh, yeah.
She was a mess.
And that, listen, she pulled a knife out and just cut you.
Anyway, so as we're talking, so we're talking at this point,
I tell Dan, I said, well, Dan, I suggest you start watching the videos
if you're concerned about it.
Yeah.
You didn't watch them?
And he was mad.
There's hundreds of videos.
I go, right.
I interview criminals.
Watch some of them.
Watch some of them.
I don't say anything to rock or draw.
I'm not saying anything.
I said, first of all, I don't even think I've said anything wrong.
I'm sorry that you disagree.
We have a difference of opinion, you know?
And to me, it's like, to me, I'm still thinking,
well, we're just going to go on.
Like, okay, well, this didn't work out.
I'm sorry.
Let's go on with the story.
Like we're professionals.
We've signed a contract.
We have an agreement.
Let's move on.
They won't let it go.
And then Dan says, listen, Matt, after hearing all of this,
and it's, it's, it's very, very upsetting, very upsetting.
He said, after hearing all this, he said, I really feel like
we need to talk about this.
Joy, Dan, and I forget the chick.
There's another chick that runs the place.
Her name is, oh, there, yeah, Jane.
She is Jane.
She is Jane.
Don't put this on there.
I don't want to fucking out all these people.
Okay, all right, cool.
So Jane and Dan and Joy, they have to get together
and have a, have a discussion.
And I'm like, about what?
Just about what we've heard here today.
Oh, he goes, you don't understand, Matt.
He said, all of our priorities, all of our values,
need to be in line.
And I was like, oh, okay, Dan.
All right.
I said, well, let me know what's going on.
Sounds like Dan was getting pressured by all these people.
So listen, when it's, when it's all said and done,
like I'm thinking, eh, he's going to call me up
in a couple of days and say, okay, well,
we're just going to keep going.
No problem.
Steady calls me up and he says, Matt, we had a,
we had a discussion and I want to let you know
that we've chose not to move forward with this project.
You've wasted over a year of my time.
Hours and hours, you tied up all of,
do you know how many people approached me
about doing something with that intellectual property
that they tied up for over a year?
How many opportunities I didn't take because of what they did?
Yeah, it's bullshit.
It's, it's like, I'm, I'm like, at this point,
he, and he goes, he goes, he goes, and you know,
the problem is Matt, it's not even what you said.
It's the fact that you were so flippant about it
that you weren't, you weren't upset about it at all.
So I wasn't outraged properly because, you know,
here's the thing that, that, that's comical about this.
Do you realize that I was in prison for 13 years?
I was looking to, I was going to be in prison for,
for until, until 2030.
And I'm supposed to, I'm supposed to take what,
I'm supposed to take your, your little crusade seriously.
Like I have serious problems.
Like I know what serious problems are.
This is like a guy going to Iraq and being shot at and then coming home
and wanting to argue over, you know, gender studies or something.
It's like, what are you doing, bro?
Like I was, I was in prison.
Guys are getting stabbed and, and trying to unraping each other.
And, and all, you know, I'm looking at doing, you know,
20 some odd years in prison and I get out now and you're upset
because I think that pretty girls get further than unattractive girls.
And they've turned that into, Dan was like, all the women
and have, that I know have had to struggle to get to where they are.
And he said, like, Jane would love to give you a piece of her mind.
It's like, I never, I never said that, that Jane or any women haven't struggled to,
like, I didn't say that.
Like, like every, in their mind, they turned me into the most evil person they could
because I said that if you're a pretty 22 year old
and you play your cards, right, you could probably end up marrying some guy
and get a chunk of money and that happens all the time.
Johnny Carson's wife got something like $40 million or something.
They were married like three years.
Like how many guys marry some chicken?
Five years later, they walk away with $20 million.
They'd never see.
Yeah.
Like, like, it's like, oh no, they didn't do that on purpose.
Like that does happen.
I'm not saying it's everywhere.
I'm saying that what I said makes sense.
Right.
Like I probably have this.
Well, I feel like the same values that they have, I didn't see it.
I didn't say it correctly.
This kind of brings us back to a conversation we've had very early on in our discussions,
not on this podcast, but on previous ones where we've talked about trying to rely on other entities
to carry your story or sell some project for you or some show or some whatever.
When you put all your eggs in their basket, you're basically yielding to their ideas,
their business, their goals, their everything.
Like you fucked yourself because you gave up all these opportunities by hoping
that they're going to do something for you.
Well, it wasn't even, no, it wasn't even hoping.
I have a contract.
Right.
Like I haven't, we have an agreement.
Yeah.
I do this.
You do this.
Instead, along the line, they decided that I was a racist, misogynistic.
You know, I don't even know what the other things they think I am.
It just, it was like, you guys went so left field on this thing.
It's insane.
Like it was, it was, and there was nothing I could do to backpedal.
No, you're done at that point.
I wasn't super trying, to be honest.
I wasn't trying hard because it seems so silly to me.
Like given what I think is truly serious and the way they were behaving,
because I get it in their world, it's a big deal.
Because they haven't faced the things I've faced in life.
No.
So to them, that's huge.
I keep snorting in the fucking mind.
What are you doing over there?
So breast off.
Oh, what?
You're, I keep, I keep like snorting in the mic.
It's going to like really piss people off.
You're going to stop doing it.
So yeah.
So I'm assuming you never got paid.
No, you know what they did was they paid me one, and initially, you know what I was told?
I was initially told that we were going to do like one story was going to span
two or three episodes.
There would be 12 episodes, and we would do like three stories throughout the season.
Instead, they suddenly turned one of my stories into what would probably be the whole series.
And suddenly I ended up getting paid like one time when I was done telling the one story.
Like it wasn't what we had agreed on at all.
And so what happened at the end of all of it after he told you that?
This was only a few weeks ago.
Like it was a few weeks ago.
And then you know what happened was he told me called Dan said,
look, we're going to go ahead and we're going to release you from the contract.
He said, I'm going to have our lawyer write something up and just let you know that you're
being released from the contract.
He's like, not that I have to.
Not that you have to.
Like you haven't produced anything.
Yeah.
You haven't finished anything.
You didn't produce.
You didn't do anything.
Like what are you talking about?
Like you're like, yeah, I don't sue you.
So and so he says all that and he goes, he said, yeah.
He said, you know, but I want to let you know, Matt, that, you know, I, you know,
that I want you to let you know that, you know, I still consider you a friend, a friend.
Danny, I don't, I haven't fucked over any of my friends.
You know, like I don't fuck over friends.
Like, what are you talking about?
Like he clearly doesn't think that he fucked me over or that he was like in their mind.
Wasted your time for all that.
You were the bad guy.
They laid awake that night and thought they'd done a good thing.
Because I said, pretty girls get further than unattractive girls.
Like it's like I said one thing and now they think that I, that I'm, I, that I guess they
think I have assault wife rifles and then I'm out there, you know, hunting down, you know,
people and I'm like, I don't know what they think I'm doing or who, who they think I am,
but they've came up with it.
And here's all the, that whole discussion between Jane and Dan and Joy.
I wasn't there.
Like Joy had already turned me into a racist.
She'd already said misogynistic.
She'd already said that all women are in danger.
Sold you out.
I mean, man, it was, it, it was the most bizarre thing.
I've ever been a part of.
It's similar to like the Andrew Tate thing, right?
If they don't like what the Andrew, if they don't like what Andrew Tate saying,
now they want to fucking label him with the sex trafficker.
Well, because he's a sex trafficker.
But now, oh, Matt Cox said all these things that don't sound good.
He agreed with Andrew Tate.
You said, I said one thing.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like guess what?
Andrew Tate also believes that like the Muslim religion is the best religion out there.
Does he really?
Yeah, because he said, he made some comment, like if you were, if you said,
had wore a t-shirt that said something negative about Muhammad or something,
and you tried to, tried to walk across a Muslim country, they'd kill you.
He said, if you could say something negative about Jesus on a t-shirt and walk through
a Christian country, they wouldn't do anything.
He's like, that's why Muslims are the best.
It's like, you're an idiot.
Yeah.
You know, like there, I could literally pick 95% of the stuff that he says.
He's an idiot.
He says a lot of dumb ass shit.
He also says a lot of like joking stupid shit.
Like the thing about like, if there was a, what do you say, if a dude was dying,
suffocating and a woman was suffocating, he wouldn't, if it was his brother,
he wouldn't resuscitate his brother because he'd rather fucking give
mouth to mouth this hot chick or something.
Right.
Something stupid like that.
He says lots of stupid things.
But here's the whole thing.
I didn't say any of that because the venom oozing out of this chick
was outright.
Like I was absolutely being attacked.
Like I felt like, like that.
And I knew there was nothing I could say.
Like I'm like,
You could never bring her back.
Right.
I mean, I try, I made one attempt and she was so disgusted that it was just like,
I mean, what am I doing here?
Like I'm, I'm like, like, well, why am I going to argue about this?
Like I'm supposed to be in prison right now, bro.
Like, I'm not going to get upset about this.
I'm not going to take this seriously.
Like I'm good.
What, what do you think it is about people like joy?
Like what, like we know other people, we have mutual friends and we've been in the
same situation with people that me and Shane work with, friends of ours that have talked,
that have, we've been in the same kind of discussion before in our little circle.
What do you think it is with people like them?
Why do you think they're like that?
And why are they so vehemently stuck on those ideas?
And so like with every fiber of their being,
it is like they are right and you are wrong and there's no discussion to be had.
I think that in this case, I could tell, I could, I felt like these two were trying to
justify that they had a better moral, you know, compass of better values than that.
They were essentially, it's almost like religion.
Like, you know, it's like, I'm a Christian.
You're a Muslim.
I'm better than you.
I'm going to heaven.
You're going to hell.
And like to me, even that, it's like, okay, I get it.
That's fine.
But even then, there's no discussion about it.
Not just that, but like to me, you know, I could be Jewish and, you know, you could be,
you know, you could be a Catholic and the truth is like, to me, we can still be friends.
Like we have a difference of opinion, you know, we'll move on.
But literally, Dan said this to me.
He said, after thinking about it, we decided that we don't want to give you a platform.
Thanks, bud.
And he said, I mean, you, you already have a platform, a channel.
So we just don't want to give someone like, well, and then he kind of stopped himself.
He's like, basically someone like you, someone like, like, we don't want to give you a platform.
Like, you know, because the truth is this program probably would have been big.
And he doesn't want to give me a platform to, to elevate me or elevate my cause or
whatever it was.
And the truth is like, I don't have a cause.
I'm telling stories.
You have a cause.
You know what I'm saying?
Like you guys have a cause and I would never have brought up anything that I believe because
the truth is I probably believe 90% of what they believe, but they'll never know that because
that's what people like that do.
They pick one little, little thing and you're not on my team and you're a horrible person
and you're evil and vile and you should be, you should be eliminated.
What the fuck are you talking about?
Sounds like the Nazis.
Right.
Like, what are you, are you, are you insane?
Like that's insane.
But that's just what happens.
They, they, they want you to just go, you don't want you to just go away and die.
We don't even have the guts to shoot you.
We just want you to go away and starve to death and die.
Like he's like, wow.
Like you don't, basically I want to make sure that you can't make an income.
I want to take away your platform.
I don't want you to make, I don't want to help you make money.
And the truth is like you hate me and you dislike me for no reason.
So they want to cancel you.
Yeah. It's absolutely canceled.
They want to cancel me.
What's so funny is it's like, it's like when you go to the grocery store,
do you know what the guy that owns the grocery store?
Do you know what his beliefs are?
When you go through the car wash or you bought the car from the guy you bought the car for,
do you know what his values are?
Like, like how, how deeper?
No, no, we just decided you stumbled across, said something that upset us.
And this chick is dying to be upset, by the way.
She's desperate to be upset.
So you upset me.
You're an old white person.
I hate you.
And as a result, I want to do everything I can to destroy you.
So I canceled.
Wow.
Yeah.
Canceled.
The injutated you.
It seems like the, this sort of, this sort of way of thinking permeates with people that
got bachelor's degree, bachelor arts degrees, or like arts degrees in college.
Master or degree in fine arts.
I love everybody.
I know, but you're an outlier.
It seems like more young people who have like college degrees,
spent a lot of time in college and then went and used that to get some job,
like some, some job at like, for example, a production company,
or an advertising agency.
Those people who are a part of some big company because of they got this degree,
it seems like they're the ones.
I don't know if that, I just know that they, they, I think that a lot of these people are
artistic and they, they tend to go into, you know, media type, you know, industries.
And then so that kind of their, that belief system kind of permeates through their work.
Well, this also, this belief system permeates through colleges too and professors and colleges.
Yeah.
Right.
No, I mean, I,
Universities.
Like, what's his name, Jordan Peterson.
You know, he says the same thing that the universities are like a breeding ground for,
you know, you know, the whole woke kind of liberal, you know, movements and stuff, you know.
And here's the, you know, the thing about that.
It's like a mind virus.
That's a scary way to say it.
You know what bothered, what the thing about that is,
that it's, it's funny because like those types of people, like society in a very,
in a, in a very real way, society needs people like that.
Does that make sense?
Like not so much that they destroy everyone else, but you need somebody to feed homeless people.
You know what I'm saying?
For sure.
Like you need, you need someone to stand up for, you know, the downtrodden.
You know what I mean?
Like you need somebody to do that.
So I get it.
Like there needs to be, there needs to be people that are advocates.
Yeah.
You know, but I don't think these people are advocates
because these people didn't look into anything.
They took one thing, turned me into a monster and then pat it, broke their arm, practically
broke their arms trying to pat themselves on the back because they thought, oh, we did a good
thing.
Really?
Did you?
I don't think you did, but you know, but that's the thing is like, like I get it.
Like you do need, you do need people that, that are trying to kind of push the envelope,
but not so much that you end up crushing everybody else.
The people that are like that are the people that don't have any real problems.
That's what, and that's what I would say when you said, we're trying to say,
when you said, why do you think that is?
Because I don't think, I don't think in general, like they've ever really, truly faced anything
devastating.
Right.
You know, like, like if they'd ever, you know, like gone through cancer,
you know, survive something or, you know, maybe they came from war-torn, you know,
Ukraine or something.
Yeah, grew up in the Soviet Union.
Right.
They really had seen poverty and they'd really say, then maybe they would say, hey,
I got it.
That puts things in perspective, not that what they're saying isn't important,
but you know what?
It's not so important that I need to destroy everybody who disagrees.
Right.
It's like when things become so good, we look for problems.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can't, yeah.
If it's too perfect, then yeah, you just create, yeah.
You create your own problems.
So.
Yeah.
That's a problem with the, with Hollywood, man.
Hollywood's, that's why Hollywood's going down the gutter.
Yeah.
And the independent people like you are on the rise.
I mean, I hope so.
I'm working on something.
I'm working on something new now.
No, you know what I'm working on.
I'm working on.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What happened with Packhouse?
Packhouse was great.
It was a fantastic podcast.
I went in the riveting.
I went in the comment section.
Oh, did you?
Yeah.
I was just reading through.
That's funny, isn't it?
People that just watch YouTube video,
they don't even watch it.
They just like go to the YouTube video
and they immediately go to the comments.
Yeah.
I've done that too.
I don't typically do that, but it was Packhouse.
So I went through and looked and was looking at all the things
that, you know, guys were like,
you bro, you didn't make any money all that time.
And he was like, no, man, I didn't, you know, he was,
and he was answering.
He was in the comment section answering.
So he was doing a great job.
He was like hammering away.
Yeah.
He's not afraid of the trolls either.
There's a lot of trolls in there.
They're like, well, how does Danny get all these fucking guests?
And there's some guy in there.
Two years.
There's one guy in there.
He goes, it's just Matt Cox.
Matt Cox gets him all these guests.
Oh yeah.
You screen shot at that.
That was funny.
It's true.
I get all my guests from Matt Cox.
All of them.
He's the most well connected man in media.
Who did you?
Who did you give me to?
What did you think about?
Root.
Ryan Root.
Ryan Root.
What did you think about him?
I thought, I thought he was, I thought he was good.
I think, you know, the, I think the problem is
he has a better story than.
He's a great story.
Then he tells, you know what I mean?
Like, like, well, he just started telling it.
So he's not exactly like, like he, like off camera
when I asked him about like, you know, like, I go,
so what kind of money were you making?
And he really started telling me about the kind of money
he was making and how it was coming in and how, like,
he didn't say any of that in my podcast.
Yeah.
And I was thinking, well, damn, bro, like,
you should have played that up.
You should have said all that.
Everything you should.
And so he did, you know, I like, I have a second channel
called inside the darkness.
So in that one, he did a better job.
Maybe it's because I wasn't there to fuck up his rhythm
or something.
And, and we'd also had that conversation.
So I said, listen, when you sit down and do that,
I said, mention the money, talk about the money.
I said, at least bring that up.
Like other than like the way people heard it.
You don't want to hear the money.
Like people heard it was, I was poor, broke,
wasn't doing anything.
Then I started doing this and money started coming in.
He never talks about money again.
In the second one, he talks about, I bought this.
I was living in his condo.
I was doing this.
I was dating this chick.
I had this.
I had this.
I had the money.
And here's how I was doing it.
Like he really talks it up.
That's a great one.
Like that was a good one.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
He's a very, he's a very measured guy when he talks.
Like he, he's very comfortable too.
Yeah.
He was, he was definitely, you know,
it's funny.
It's the second one.
So on that channel, so I have a,
I have a second YouTube channel called inside the darkness
that I just started.
You know, it's funny about him because,
you know, I leave the room.
Oh, no, no, no.
So like on a soft white underbelly, you know,
Mark stays there and asks question.
I've already interviewed you.
I just interviewed you downstairs, right?
And I have another room with all blacked out.
I put them on a chair and just say, tell the same story.
And I go, I'm going to turn on the cameras.
I'm going to leave.
Yeah.
And they're like, oh, you're not going to be here.
I'm like, no, we just went over it.
And what happens is I've had guys tell their story
where I talked to them downstairs.
No big deal.
They told the story.
It was good.
Went for about an hour.
And then they go upstairs two hours later.
Yeah.
They go upstairs.
And when they walk out of the room, they're in tears crying.
No.
But yeah, man, I got a little confession.
I got a little emotional and I'm like, what happened?
He's like, I don't know, man, I start talking about this.
And I'm like, holy, like they get up there to buy themselves.
And let loose.
You know, the cameras are here.
Yeah.
Like I don't get it.
You know, the camera, like to them,
he's like, I know, but nobody was there.
And I'm like, yeah, but the cameras aren't there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, you know, Dan, why the same guy, Dan wise,
he, he's, when he started talking about his, uh, his girlfriend,
what he put her through, because of his charges,
and he, she got charged.
He was bawling in tears talking about it.
That's interesting.
Ryan actually stopped at several points.
He stopped and he went,
this was a once.
And I don't mean like he stopped for like 10 seconds.
We're talking about like a minute or two in line.
And he was like,
Oh, and he was,
Okay.
He goes,
Okay.
So at this point, and then he just started right,
like he was having a conversation
where he was trying to work out.
Get it out.
Yeah.
He was like, okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
So yeah.
No, no, it was definitely at this.
So, so by late 2000, such and such,
and then he starts talking again.
I was like, and I was like, that's,
that's interesting.
I don't know.
Then he did it again, like 10 minutes, 20 minutes later.
Because he went for like over and like an hour and a half
or something like that.
Suddenly, another point, he went, wait a minute.
And started having a conversation with himself.
Yeah.
He's a,
and then he started talking again.
He's super smart, man.
He's, he's like a legitimate biochemist.
And like, he's supposedly like one of like the most
renowned steroid dealers, like legitimately too.
Yeah.
It was.
And it's fascinating how the whole steroid community
is like more medically versed.
They know more about like the biology of the human body
with the hormones and all the balances of everything
than like even a generic practitioner would.
Yeah.
It's when you talk to him, like he's like,
he kind of hymns and hauls about a bunch of stuff.
And the moment you start asking him about steroids
or anything about the body, boom, he immediately.
He obsessed with it.
Yeah.
It's like, wow, you got, it's like,
Bozak will be like ranting, raving and talking crazy.
And then you say, hey, how do, what's a CVV?
Okay.
So when you get the heck of card and he immediately
goes into the strip on the back and he'll start explaining
it and you're like, like, it's like, you know it inside now.
Yeah.
All of it.
I was talking to him on the phone because I showed him,
I showed him my blood work.
Like I got my blood work done and I showed it to him.
Right.
I'm just interested in like, like what are like my testosterone
levels versus like all my other, you know, all these
biomarkers that I don't even know what the fuck they mean.
I'm like, what do you think about this?
And he was fucking talking to me for like an hour.
Well, this means this, your blood, your blah, blah, blah,
blah, like, like, rattling off all these different medical
terms I'd never heard of.
I can't even say the terms.
You'll say the word.
He goes, because of this biomarker being elevated to this
level, you probably feel like this, this and this during
these times of the day.
You probably sleep this.
I'm like, wow, you're fucking nailing it.
That's crazy.
It is really crazy, man.
Have you ever tried testosterone or steroids?
Yeah.
Are you on it now?
Bro, I'm gay like 10 fucking pounds.
Like it's, when did you start doing it?
What do you mean?
I was talking to Ryan.
Oh, since Ryan?
Yes.
Oh, okay.
I'm talking about, bro, I was like, I'm tired.
I'm this, I'm not making gains.
I'm this, I'm that, you know, and he was like, you know,
all right, go to your doctor, get the blood work, do this.
Oh, you did.
Okay.
You got the Ryan Root treatment.
Yeah.
He's, he's a, he's got a legitimate deal going.
He's got a legitimate little, what's it called a TRT clinic?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's, he's something else.
So when did you start doing it?
Like a month or so ago?
So immediately after you had the podcast, did the podcast with him?
Yeah.
Immediately after you went and got your blood work done the next day.
The blood work.
What was your testosterone level when you had your blood work done?
Um, it was like below a thousand something and now it's just below a thousand.
Well, I mean, like, I don't know, like 800 or something like that.
Okay.
Eight, you know, he's, you know, it was, but I wasn't making gains.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I'm working out.
Like in the gym, I mean, like physical.
Yeah.
And, and I'm, I'm tired and I'm, you know what I'm saying?
Like it's, you know, I'm, I'm 53 years old and, you know, like-
You're at the perfect time to start doing it.
And you work, I work out and like I stay sore all the time, which is great, but it's not great.
You're always sore.
Right.
I'm not, you know, I'm not coming back fast enough.
I'm not, but, um, yeah, I was going to say, did I tell you that for my birthday,
Jess got me, um, Ancestry.com?
No.
Have you ever done it?
Have you ever done it?
No.
I've done 23 and me, but-
Oh, well, it's the same thing, right?
Isn't it?
I don't know.
Yeah.
It's the same thing.
It's the same thing.
Like it tells you where you're from and everything.
Is it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So listen, that's what 23 and me does.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm, I'm like 70% Scandinavian, like, uh, um, Norwegian.
So 100% Scandinavian.
Every-
Really?
Every, and here's what's,
what's messed up about that.
My whole life, I've been told that I had, you know, a Native American Indian in me.
Like I'm, I'm brown.
Like I never get-
You look, you look part Mexican in your, in your, in your, in your
moshots, your original moshots, you look part Mexican or Hispanic.
You're really tan.
Oh yeah.
Like I, listen, if I, if I'm going to stay in the sun two days,
well, like an hour a day for two days, dark brown, three days.
Listen, a month brown, like you can't believe so, so dark.
But so I've always been, my father looks like he looked like a chief.
He looked like he should have feathers on his head.
Wow.
Like everybody.
And he was like, yeah, he's like, I'm Native American Indian.
You got pictures of your dad in your phone?
I do.
I do somewhere.
And so he's Scandinavian?
Send me a picture of your dad.
I want to put, I want to put it on the TV.
Listen, bro, let me tell you something.
100%?
Yeah.
So here's the problem.
What's going on?
What the?
Like I've been told my whole life.
Yeah.
It's supposed to be fair skin.
No, but my father is with the Indian.
Like what's mom?
Is that your real dad?
No, he's not.
I'm sure he's my, listen, everything else about us.
Like we have the same ears, the same hands, the same, everything about us.
You know, same.
No, he's a little bit taller than me.
We're both, we were both assholes.
Like we both have the same personality.
Like I don't doubt that for a second.
What I doubt is if, why is he so dark?
Yeah.
Why am I so dark?
Why?
Why am I so dark?
Why?
You know, and if you look at it like it's everything, it's not.
Maybe there's dark people in Scandinavia.
There actually are.
So Jess looked it up and here's the thing.
Norwegians, Norwegians eat so much salmon.
There's some chemical in the salmon.
So they tend to get dark.
I don't know.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Seafood.
Yeah, but they.
So I don't know.
And seafood, bro.
The fuck.
There is.
Is there?
Yeah.
And not salmon.
Salmon is like, they got like the good oils in there.
Like the B.
There's something in there.
What do they call the B12s?
Omega.
Omega.
Omega oils.
Omega brain.
Yeah, there's definitely.
I don't see food, bro.
Omega threes.
The Creole oil.
Okay.
So back to the testosterone.
So what was it like?
How much?
Juicin up.
Bro, I've gained.
How much?
Okay.
So what?
What?
Really?
It's like 15 pounds, really.
Oh, yeah.
Really?
In a month?
I almost weigh 180 pounds and I'm there.
I'm like, well, I am.
Take your shirt off.
Now I'm hungry.
I'm not taking my shirt off.
Take your shirt off.
Now I'm hungry all the time.
I want to see how jacked you are.
Take your shirt off.
No, I'm not going to.
Look at his arms.
I'm not jacked.
At least flex.
Give us a flex like this.
Like Hulk Hogan.
Give us a Hulk Hogan.
What do you do?
You do it.
He's pretty big, actually.
Let's get here.
I don't even, I worked out in like two weeks.
Oh yeah, he's jacked.
Look at the camera and do it.
Yeah, look at those pythons.
Are you kidding me?
Those are pythons.
So wait, am I going to get, am I, this is the, is this the.
Yeah, this is the thumbnail.
The thumbnail?
Yeah.
All right, cool.
All right.
Nuts.
So, okay, all right.
So you got your blood work done.
He evaluated your blood work and what's, what has he given you?
What exactly are you doing?
I mean, I, bro, I can't even, I don't even know the.
How many milligrams a week?
What are you doing?
Can we talk about something else?
Why?
I mean, I, I don't, I don't, because.
Are you uncomfortable?
What?
I, I don't know.
I mean, I'm not sure.
He didn't tell you how many milligrams you're taking a week.
I know he did, but I don't even, I didn't even pay attention.
Like, I mean, I, I know I'm taking like a, a CC or no, half a CC of something or.
Twice a week or once a week?
Twice a week.
Twice a week.
And what, how soon did you feel a difference and what did you feel?
I, I mean, I, I honestly felt just stronger and I,
I recuperating quicker.
The problem is I'm hungry all the time.
That's what I heard.
Yeah.
Like now I'm hungry.
Like it used to be, it was like, I was like 165 pounds just on average.
And then if I.
As much as I do.
That's how much I weigh too.
I probably weigh 180 now.
Yeah.
Like I.
I'm like 175.
I'm 177, 178.
Like if I have a.
Yeah, we're going to see him.
Yeah.
It's, it's, you know, and that's bad because I don't want to be 180.
I want to be 165, 170.
So.
I feel better that way.
What about energy levels?
Explain that.
I feel, I feel like I have more energy.
I feel like I'm recuperating faster.
I feel stronger.
And when I work out, like I want to work out.
Usually when I'm working, as I'm working out, I'm like, I just want to go home.
Yeah.
Like I ache.
I hurt.
It sucks to suck.
You know, like I'm working out and it's, it's a struggle.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not a struggle to get through anything now.
Have your balls shrinked?
You know, I don't know.
I haven't measured my nuts in a long time.
You haven't noticed anything?
No.
You haven't noticed the shrinkage?
No.
Everyone.
Same.
Everyone I talked to says their nuts get super small after that.
No idea.
What about hair loss?
They're supposed to be, there's some sort of like GNA.
I can't afford that.
Yeah, bro.
Like that.
Come on, man.
Are you, were you worried about that before you tried it?
No, because my stuff is surgically.
Oh yeah.
You're right.
Stuck in there.
He's got surgical procedures.
That's not moving out.
Interesting.
So Matt Cox is on the juice.
I need some juice.
I know.
I need to get something.
Well, I'm, I'm afraid to do it.
You know, he, he told me, he's like, you should get into it, man.
It's pretty cool.
And I'm like, he's like, you'll feel better.
You'll sleep better.
You'll have more energy.
And I'm like, yes, sounds great.
I would definitely do it.
But it shuts off your natural production.
That's what I'm worried about.
Right.
But and I mean, at my age, that's a problem.
At your age, you don't give a fuck about your natural production.
You can just stay on it.
You're in your fifties.
Right.
I'm in my thirties.
Well, I mean, yeah, but it would come back in your thirties.
In mine, it might just shut off completely.
Like I'm not even.
Like if I stopped, right.
Right.
But the thing is like, I don't, what if I'm out of town with home traveling?
I'm not going to have my syringes be able to shoot up twice.
Here's the thing.
It's not like a drug like you're, it's not like you're.
Withdrawals.
Yeah.
I mean, it's not like you're, you're taking heroin and you're going to have like,
you wouldn't even notice.
Yeah.
You wouldn't even notice that.
Yeah, you would.
You would.
He says that you did because he was when he was on it before he went to prison.
Oh, well, I'm sure he was, God knows what he was taking.
He said depression.
He goes, your libido drops to nothing.
You don't need a libido in prison.
He's probably better off than I haven't.
No doubt.
True.
He goes, he goes, you just.
You're welcome.
Yeah.
He said he felt like dog shit, like, like true dog shit after he went to prison
and he couldn't have it anymore.
Is it hot in here?
It is.
It's always hot in here.
We have a fucked up AC system.
We have the most fucked AC system in the world.
I mean, you guys aren't sweating.
No, I have to invest a lot of money.
It's the juice.
I'm drinking a whole thing of coffee.
It's raging.
What is going on?
I need the liquid.
Get some water in you, man.
Ooh, liquid death.
Get some salts in your system.
Soak up some of that sweat.
I'm interested to see how this works out for you in the next couple of months
and how you start feeling.
How much does this cost?
You interested?
Well, I mean, I've got to try it before I buy it.
Apparently, it makes you like truly a fucking superhuman.
It improves every aspect of your life.
Do I look superhuman?
It's not about how you look.
I mean, it is about how you look, but it's also about it's mostly about how you feel.
Are you feeling superhuman?
No, I don't.
And Jess is still stronger than me.
How's your libido?
Maybe you need to have your dose.
How's your libido?
Improvement or no?
There's an extreme improvement.
Extreme improvement.
Extreme improvement.
This is what I've heard unequivocally from everyone up top.
What's libido?
So, you know, your desire to have sex.
Oh, your whoreiness.
You know, like, he needs the opposite of that because he's got no one to have sex with except his hands.
Well, I mean, you know, as you get, especially as you get older, like,
you know, so you're like, yeah, you're like, you know,
if I had sex twice a week, like, I'm good, you know, but that's not how it is now.
No, no.
Like now it's like every now if Jesus Christ, Matt, leave me alone.
If Jess rubs up against me, I'm like, Hey, are you sleepy?
She's like, what are you doing?
She's like, what do you mean am I sleepy?
What do you want to do?
Have sex?
I'm like, I mean, I'm just saying, she's like, Oh my God, she's like, what's going on?
Like, I'm just saying you rub up it.
You did rub up against me.
She's like, I'm rolling over.
I mean, what was I going to do?
So now she sleeps as far away from me as she can.
No.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's, it's, it's, yeah, I'm ready to go.
I'm interested.
I'm interested in giving it a shot.
I'm just worried that I'm too young.
I don't want to fucking, I don't, first of all, I don't mind nuts to shrink.
Well, look, I'm back.
It, first of all, is that poop hairs?
Like I've never once like, is that something like that's important?
You got some big balls.
Yeah.
Has anybody ever said that to you?
It'll make my dick look bigger though.
Yeah.
It'll make your dick look bigger.
Your balls get smaller.
What is going on with you?
What do you mean?
It's not true.
I don't know.
But what is it?
It's all, it's all.
First of all, you're married.
She's locked in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's still, it's still it's the thing you think about.
No, I don't think about, you know, I'm concerned about, you know, what's wrong,
baby?
We're more concerned about the hairline.
Hey, you want to know what are you thinking about?
What are about the size of my nuts?
Like I feel they're a good size.
I've never had that conversation.
Hey, while we're on the subject, I want to share with you a life hack that I've
just recently discovered.
Okay, this might be, I'm sure there's people out here
who do this and know about this.
I've never even thought about it until my brother just told me about it a couple
weeks ago and I started doing it.
When you wake up in the middle of the night, you have to piss really bad, right?
I mean, sometimes.
Right.
Or early in the morning.
Sometimes early in the morning.
I wait, sometimes I wake up before I want to wake up and I have to piss.
When I piss early in the morning, like I wake up at five or six, I gotta piss.
I piss for like two minutes straight.
It's healthy.
When I'm that tight, when how bad is a huge fucking bladder?
Yeah.
So I just started sitting down when I piss fucking a hundred percent better than
standing up when you're pissing and you're tired.
You wake up in the morning.
Life hack.
Bro, it is so.
What is that?
It is just more comfortable.
It is so much better.
It is more comfortable.
You don't have to worry about pissing on the seat.
You can end your, your, are these issues?
I don't ever worry about this.
Give it a shot.
I do. I piss all over the seat sometimes when I'm really tired.
You can sit there.
Just fucking let it hang in the toilet and you can just go like this.
Sit there and just let it go.
Read a book.
You don't have to think.
You don't have to worry about aiming.
Nothing sitting down while you're pissing.
It bothers me that you think that this is a big thing.
It is a big thing.
It's a big thing for me.
It's really improved the quality of my life.
Whoa.
Going on.
I'm serious, man.
Give it a shot.
Listen, typically I'm sitting down anyway because I walk in with my phone and I look
at TikToks.
Oh, so you sit down on P already?
Yeah.
Okay.
And who taught me that?
Who?
In prison.
Puerto Ricans.
They all sit down when they pee.
Oh, really?
Plus when you go in there, you typically sit down on P anyway
because you don't want to piss in the toilet
and get little sprinkles all over the place
because then you have to wipe the whole thing up
because you have a, you have a celly.
Right.
He doesn't, you know, so every time you go to the bathroom,
you have to wipe down, wipe this, wipe that.
So what happens is the guys are like, look,
you just have to sit down.
Like, because otherwise there's just no,
or you're, you're hitting the side and you might hit the thing.
Like, you look, just sit down and piss.
Right.
And so what do you end up having to sit down?
And I want to say that because, you know.
And that's the other thing.
Another huge benefit is, is my wife can hear me pissing
from the bedroom.
So if she's sleeping and you hear the
you no longer hear that side of the bowl.
Bro, you want me to do all that when it's pitch black?
How tired are you?
I'm not even fucking awake yet.
Get a nightlight.
I'm not even awake.
First of all, second of all, it's dark.
This is, you're right.
Then sit down for you.
This is a big deal.
I mean, like to me, there would be like nightlights involved.
There's a nightlight.
There's, I'm hitting the side.
I'm, you're just trying to present an argument to something
I'm thinking that I'm just trying to explain to you.
I've discovered that it's made my life better.
It bothers me that this is, that this is made your life.
I've been, I've been meaning to talk about this on the podcast
because it's, it's really, it's really improved my life.
It really has.
It's, it's like one little like piece of my life that I would
never even think about talking about, but it's, I thought I
was thinking about, I'm like, wow, this is fucking great.
It's amazing, but you've been doing it.
I didn't know you've been doing it.
Yeah. Well, it's just, you know, you never heard the guys like
locked up for 13 years, that fucking dude sits, pisses sitting down.
You know, that's like, that was when I was growing up.
Yeah. It was a feminine thing.
So I don't want to say that, but, but yeah, the poor,
the Puerto Ricans do it, but the truth is, is everybody ends up
doing it in prison anyway, because, you know, it's disrespectful.
You get those splashes everywhere.
You have to clean it up.
You have to, you know, right.
You don't want to do it when you're at the football game
in the stadium, but I mean, when you're at home, it's definitely
you don't want to do it in the porta potty.
No, you don't want to do it in the fucking porta potty.
Four in the morning in the job site.
Hell no. Oh my God.
What, um, a lot of times I wake up in the middle
and I just go outside and pee in the backyard.
What? Yeah.
You go all the way outside.
Well, I guess outside glass doors right there.
I mean, it just pop outside, pee on the tree.
You guys are animals.
That's hilarious.
What are you doing?
That's funny.
Oh my God.
I let the dog out.
We fucking share a moment.
We smoke a cig.
We pee on the chain tree.
There's this funny video Josh sent me the other day.
I got to send this to you, Austin, so you could pull it up.
Oh, I sent you a picture of Matt Cox's dad.
Can you pull that up?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It was Matt Cox's skin, the navy net in the middle.
In the middle.
Look how brown he is.
10 to blow that up.
He looks Italian for sure.
Guy on the left is definitely Irish.
Is that your mom on the right?
Uh-huh.
Is it?
I actually have one that's wider,
but what doesn't matter.
It's fine.
It's just funny.
I can't believe you're on the fucking juice, bro.
I can't believe.
I don't know why you're embarrassed to talk about it.
I'm 53 years old.
You know, I'm 53.
That's what 53-year-olds are supposed to do.
I mean, I understand.
But first of all, you know what's funny
is like I just started doing it.
So my problem is I've gained almost 15 pounds.
I've really gained about 15 pounds.
Like it depends.
Probably over 10, 10, 12 pounds I've gained.
And it's a problem.
Like I'm eating too much, right?
I'm eating too much and I'm desperately trying not to.
Are you getting fat?
I mean, I feel like I am.
Jess says I'm not.
She's like, no, you just look thick.
Like you're strong.
Like when we work out, like you look good.
Like she likes it, but she doesn't like me thin.
Muscle gains.
I mean, I, yeah, I mean, you can't, first of all,
you can't gain in a month and a half.
You, well, maybe it's been two months
and a month and a half to two months,
you can't gain 10, 15 pounds of muscle.
So it hasn't been 15 pounds of muscle.
But I'm definitely like everything is lighter.
Yeah.
That's it.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
Right.
It's, it's super.
It's really nuts.
Like, and then when I do dips, like, you know,
I mean, I'm just, I'm smashing out, you know,
30 dips, 40 dips in a row.
I'm, I'm, I'm, I do 50, 60 push-ups.
I'll, you know, and it's like, and it's killing it.
All right.
It's not.
And then Batman mask.
No, I, that should bring that.
What about cardio?
How's cardio?
I mean, I'm horrible at cardio.
Is it, is it harder?
Is it easier?
No, no, it's since COVID, since I had COVID.
No, since, since steroids.
No, I'm just saying prior to, prior to me having COVID,
I was doing 30 minutes a day and just on the elliptical, right?
Like I've, I've done maybe one time since COVID,
I've been able to do 30 minutes.
Like my lungs, I don't know what happened, but so I do 15,
maybe 15 minutes and I'm, I'm, I'm dying, maybe 20 and I'm dying.
Yeah.
That's it.
Yeah.
So, you know, so it, what is the, so I don't know.
I don't know.
Most importantly, how's your golf swing?
I don't, I don't, look at me, I'm tiny.
I don't have the body for that.
No, I can't, and I can't run.
I run like a tank.
Like it's, it's-
You don't have to run playing golf.
I know, but I'm like, there's certain things that my body size,
like, you know, I can't do, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm half a midget,
bro. I'm, I'm, I'm tiny.
I'm tiny.
And the worst thing is now we're watching Jess and I are watching
the Game of Thrones.
Are you watching? Oh, the Dragon's one?
House of Dragons?
I don't know.
The one that's on HBO now, the new series?
Or you go-
No, no, no.
This is the old one.
You're watching the original Game of Thrones.
Cause to me, the old one is the new one.
Like I never saw that.
It's the one with the little guy, the little-
Yeah, yeah, Tyrion.
Yeah, Tyrion, yeah.
Like, you know, every time something happens and he does something,
like Jess keeps glancing at me, glancing at me.
So makes me so mad.
He is the best character in the show.
If he wasn't in it, I don't watch that show at all.
He is the fucking best, bro.
He is the best.
Yeah.
He reminds me of you, actually.
Here it comes.
Here it comes.
You brought it by yourself.
His intellect and his wit, his dagger tongue.
I mean, it's just like you, bro.
He's the fucking greatest.
He's the greatest character.
He really is the greatest character.
Tiny little guy.
We got to get him to play you in a biopic.
Hey, so listen, all these guys were telling me,
like, all these guys were like, oh, you got to do the,
he should be the Dusekis guy.
So I came up with, I wrote 20 of these with a guy that, a friend of mine,
and I did five of them, five video, I did five little videos.
I'm going to do the other 15 because it's for my Patreon.
And I plug them in my podcast.
And then guys in the comments are like, bro, this is hilarious.
Like, I can't believe it, but they're funny.
I thought they were funny.
Yeah, they were super funny.
Me and Danny were actually, we were laughing about them.
The Maccon, uh, Maccox, the little, little bits he does.
I don't normally commit fraud, but when I do,
they were in the group chat with him.
Are you joking?
You commented on them.
But yeah, me and you were talking about him.
You gave me like a thumbs up for this fucking guy.
You can't send him shit.
No, I know.
You'd have to show it to me again.
I send him shit all the time.
He didn't watch nothing.
Oh, so this is fake ID and his charm.
He is the most interesting man in the world.
I don't typically commit crime, but when I do, it's bank fraud.
I never saw it.
He is my friend.
He is my friend.
So what's the channel?
I promise you.
Do you want to do Cox's picture?
Oh, what a prick.
What a prick.
It's great though.
I love it.
It's another link you probably got.
Maybe go to Playlist maybe.
Or there they are.
Yeah, yeah.
Here, hand that thing over here, bro.
It's community, community puff.
Yeah, that's one, the second one.
Law enforcement often questions him.
Not because he's suspected of a crime,
but because they find him fascinating.
He is the most interesting man in the world.
I don't typically commit crime, but when I do, it's bank fraud.
Stay greedy, my friends.
Support the channel.
Stay greedy.
Do you want to do Cox's picture?
My buddy came up with that.
That's classic, man.
Woo, that's great.
There's like five of them.
I love that.
I got, I need to do the other ones.
They're all hilarious.
The plastic surgery one, I got one where I do, what was it?
Oh, wait, go to the one that says plastic surgery, the very end.
That one, yeah.
Yeah.
He once conned Bank of America out of $250,000 using nothing but a fake.
Hey, you stopped it.
No, that's not it.
He once got plastic surgery because he didn't like the photo on his wanted poster.
His legend precedes him.
The way indictments proceed arrests.
He is the most interesting man in the world.
I don't typically commit crime, but when I do, it's bank fraud.
Stay greedy, my friends.
Support the channel.
I love that.
You're doing Cox's picture.
That's good.
I love that.
That's good.
Stay greedy, my friends.
So funny.
That's good.
But yeah, what we know before this, we were talking about nail that.
Right?
Yeah, he sounds just like that guy.
He does.
He does.
And I found music like, I was trying to get different kinds of music for the same thing,
but I think the music I found is as close as I can get.
Yeah.
You just can't find the perfect stuff.
So, well, before this, you were talking about, you looked in the comments of the Pack Owls podcast.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, where they were just like, you know, bro, I can't believe you didn't,
you know, you only made, you know, you didn't make any money.
He said he made 50, 60K maybe total.
Really?
Because in the article, it said he made like $7,000 total.
Oh, really?
I remember that in the book, or in another interview I saw with him, he said that too,
off a propane deal, something propane or something.
Right, right.
And then another guy had said to them, they mentioned, they said, bro, I can't believe you can never,
you can't, you can't you get back into it?
And he said, and he said,
He definitely could.
Yeah, he said he could.
He goes, well, I don't really know.
I haven't looked into it.
I'm not interested or something like that.
I haven't really looked into it.
But the truth is, but Deverelli told me that they were restricted from doing business with the federal government for three years.
Even though it was for fraud, defrauding the federal government was only three years.
Yeah.
So here's my thing about that.
He was, he was, Deverelli was restricted from doing business with the federal government for three years.
The Swiss guy, Heinrich.
Heinrich, yeah.
He was in the same boat, but they knew.
They knew Heinrich, Tomei was just providing these guys as a middleman, all this ammunition to sell to them.
Yeah.
So the federal government obviously doesn't give a fuck.
No, they don't care.
They don't, I mean, look, they need, I'm honestly, I'm surprised that, that, that they even went after these guys, to be honest.
Like they were actually one guy, that one freaking.
Yeah, it was that one guy.
It was that one guy, but they actually went after, I mean, I'm sorry, they actually,
they were performing better than like general dynamics, you know, better, better than these
in other companies.
Yeah.
And way cheaper.
Yeah.
And so it's like, why would you, but they needed a fall guy.
There was that New York Times article, which was bullshit.
Yep.
And they, but they needed a fall guy.
And these are the guys and let's go after them.
And, and so we got a hammer somebody.
Well, let's hammer these guys.
That one investigator based at a Tampa, I forget the department, what the name of that, that branch was.
What were, there wasn't DEA.
It was like DEI.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
You mean for the defense department?
It was like a, he was like a customs guy, but not a customs guy.
He was based in Tampa.
The guy who basically, he investigated in them, the guy who went to, what was the country?
Albania.
Albania, the guy who went to Albania.
It was like the DS, yeah, DSDC or something.
Like, yeah, it was for the, for the, it was like, they're like the military FBI.
So this one guy, this one prosecutor was just super fucking horny for their case.
And he wanted to prosecute them and wanted to advance his own career.
He had his, he just had his eyes set on this prize and he would stop it.
Nothing to fucking hammer these guys.
And then when he went to the army and talked to them about it, like, look,
these guys are doing this or using these Chinese ammo and the people in the army who were,
they're like, let them ride.
They're like, there's nothing wrong with what these guys are doing.
The ammo is perfect.
Right.
All of the ammo works.
People on the ground in Iraq or in Afghanistan are testing it.
There's no problems with it and it's getting delivered on time.
So why would we fucking throw a wrench into this system that's working?
And this guy, just for political reasons for, to advance his own career,
he wanted to fucking pursue it.
It's just out of ambition.
It was just this human nature.
He wanted to advance his own career.
Deverell, he actually had a, a letter from the U.S. military that said that they didn't
have one single reporting of one round not firing, that he had provided.
Not one.
But if you read the New York Times article, it makes it sound like everything they were
providing was falling apart and rusting and damaged.
Cause there was nothing.
Complete life, bullshit.
There was one batch of ammo they got from like Slovenia or somewhere.
That was like way before that.
Tarnished.
It was only tarnished.
Yeah.
It didn't not work.
It was just tarnished.
It looked like shit.
It wasn't shiny.
Right, right, right.
Would it fire?
Yeah.
Was it, and Deverell, he said, you know what's funny?
He said, you can actually take that ammunition because he did this before.
I talked about it in the book.
He had gotten stuff that had been shipped from, I think Israel and it had gotten salt
water damage.
Like it hadn't been sealed properly.
And polish it up.
Right.
And then, you know what they polish it in?
Oh God.
It was, I think it was corn or something.
Oh yeah.
Like corn meat or so.
I forget, but they put it in like cornmeal.
Cornmeal.
And they put it, they put that in with, in like a dryer, like a dryer that, or
a washer or something.
They do it and they pull it out and it's all nice and shiny.
It buffs us.
It buffs it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was like, are you serious?
He goes, yeah.
Wow.
I mean, listen, you know, Deverell, he was an ingenious guy, hardworking, hustler.
You can't trust him for far as you could throw him.
He was just like, he's one of those fucking guys who all he thinks about is money.
Yeah.
He'll never be poor.
He'll never be poor.
That's for sure.
He's one of those guys.
It's funny because Boziak and I were talking about this the other day.
And we were talking about it.
And I mean, I think this is just in general.
Like if you watch like these guys like Jordan Peterson or a lot of these guys,
they'll tell you that there are some people that you could take this person and you can say,
hey, I'm going to take this person and I'm going to put him over here and give him nothing.
You got nothing.
Okay.
And three years from now, he'll be a millionaire.
You're going to take everything away from him.
Taking everything from you.
Okay.
I'm going to put you over here in this state.
You know, I'm going to drop you off in the middle of Ohio.
Okay.
Three years from now, he'll be a millionaire.
Do you need the same contacts?
Anything.
He'll, those people, they're figured out.
Then there are other people.
You can say, hey, here's $10 million.
Three years from now, they'll be claiming bankruptcy.
Yeah.
And there's just some of those.
And then you can say, okay, you know what I'm going to do?
Here's another 10 million.
They might make it four years.
Like there are some people that are just,
they're just, they're just hustlers.
And that's Devereux.
You could take everything from him and he will be a multi-millionaire.
Now granted, in Devereux's case, he'll destroy everyone that comes
across.
He'll rip every single person off that comes across his path to do it,
but he will do it.
He'll do it.
Yeah.
It's interesting, man.
Just the way his fucking mind works.
So fucking interesting.
You know what's funny too?
It's such a, like a rare, it's a rare thing too.
I would have loved to have been here when Packhouse was here.
I wish you would have been here when Packhouse was here.
Yeah.
I wish I could have, but that guy flew in from Vegas.
Yeah.
Fuck, that would have been good, man.
But he literally, it was, yeah, Devereux was just, it was, you know,
you start to realize like it's, you know, spend enough time with him.
You start to realize like, like you're sick.
Like you've got a real problem.
And, and I'm, you know, super nice to the guy and super, you know,
you know, understanding.
And I was very impressed with him.
He was a super, very impressive guy and the way his mind worked and
everything with the exception, the fact that, that he literally
didn't, he discussed, if he made $200,000 on a deal and you made $100,000,
he was disgusted that he had to give you $100,000.
Even if you brought him the deal, like you could cut him in on the deal.
Yeah.
He gets $200,000.
Yeah.
And he'd be disgusted that you were going to make $100,000 because in his mind,
that was $100,000.
He should get that $100,000.
It's like, I know, I know a couple of people that are just like that.
Whoa.
I know about, I know a handful of guys who are just like that.
That's scary.
I don't know the way you're saying it scares me.
It's just funny because it's like identical mindsets.
And it's, it's when you can connect two people that have the same exact
mindset and way of thinking is, it's, it's funny when you can do that.
I was going to say that he, yeah, yeah, it's, it's, it's a rare thing.
How do, how do they get like that?
Is it nature?
I, I, I mean, the thing is, is like, if you take Devereux, he's like,
I met his brother.
Like, I think I met his brother.
Yeah.
That's what my sister and both his brothers.
He said, none of his siblings are like that.
No, none of them, none of them.
His sister is super, um, you know, like protective of him, but, but she seemed
like a nice person.
Like I emailed her all the time.
Like she was doing looking stuff up for me, pulling stuff, you know,
all everything for, for his case, very nice person, you know,
his brothers were humble and nice and polite.
He was just vastly different, vastly different.
See the old, he was the oldest, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
And I wonder, it's like, like, yeah, I would have loved to have talked
to a pack house about him.
Like, you know, it was, it was super weird.
Like just some of the things he would do and say, and it was just like,
you know, it was funny.
He could be really funny, but it just, you know, in the manipulation,
like it's blatant.
Like it's different if you're subtly manipulative and maybe you might
figure out, Hey, this guy's kind of manipulative over time with him.
You very quickly could see from the start, from the very start.
He would, he, and he'd do those kinds of things where he'd say stuff, like,
you know, to try and get you to do something like, yeah, bro, you ought to
do this for me.
You know, bro, I'm telling you, you're going to make a ton of money.
A ton of money.
You don't want to make money.
You don't like money.
What's wrong with you?
I'm trying to help you, bro.
I'm trying to help you.
Like, I can't help you.
I can't, it's like, Jesus, like calm down, calm down, high pressure, pushy,
pushy, pushy, pushy, pushy, pushy.
And then the moment everything starts to fall, you know, next thing you know,
and then as things start starting to happen, it's like, okay, so we're going
to have everything, we're going to have everything put in my bank account.
And it's like, you know, and then you're like, yeah, bro, why don't,
I don't understand they'll, they can cut you a check and cut me a check.
Bro, listen, you don't know anything about this.
Okay.
This is taxes.
Okay.
This is the way my accountant wants it.
Okay.
I'm cutting you in on this.
I'm cutting you.
You don't want a part of it.
You don't want a part of it.
It's like, Jesus, like what?
You know, but you realize so overbearing after, oh, extremely,
after he fucks you over, you realize, oh, wow, bro.
Like you got me to do all these things.
You never paid me.
You had all the money deposited into your account.
And then you didn't pay me.
You, you just stopped talking to me and every time I said, hey, man,
you owe me money to fuck you, get a lawyer.
And it was like blatant.
It's like, why you're not even pretending to come up with a reason
why you're not paying me.
You're saying, go fuck yourself.
You live in a building where I can't get in.
He's scared all the time.
Worried somebody's getting, someday somebody, somebody will kill him.
And oh, I mean, I, you know, what helps me sleep at night
is thinking at some point it will catch up with him.
But the truth is he'll probably go his entire life.
He's a cockroach.
He's a survivor.
Right.
But the nice thing, what I do know is this,
after spending enough time with him, what I do know is this.
He's a deeply, deeply unhappy person.
Really?
Extremely unhappy.
Listen, why, you tell me, this guy is drugs on drugs all the time
and doesn't even like hide it.
Like he'll tell you, like I'm, I'm on either Coke.
I'm, I'm smoking pot to sleep.
I'm taking Coke when I get up.
I'm drinking this.
Like, I mean.
A couple rounds, a couple longs.
You know what, you know what's weird?
It's like, also in the book, they're explaining like,
as soon as he wakes up and starts looking on the computer,
like he, he wakes up, he's on his computer looking for money,
looking for deals.
Right.
But he's also ripping the fucking bong at the same time.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't doubt that.
Just taking the edge off.
He sees, it's insane.
I mean, it's, it's doing anything.
He, the drugs are keeping him up.
And look, you're so funny.
Like when he read my book.
Bro, look, Coaster.
He read, he read my book and he was like, yo, bro, he goes,
this is the best thing I've ever read, I've ever read.
And I went, this is when I was writing his outline in prison.
And he goes, this is the best thing I've ever read, ever.
And he goes, I want you to write my book.
I was like, bro, you can get like a professional.
He said, you're a professional.
This is the best thing I've ever read.
And, and I was like, and so he, I was trying to convince me
that I later found out like he'd read, he'd read like five books
his whole life or something.
And I was like, hey, bro, you told me this is the best thing
you'd ever read the best.
And he's like, and he's like, it is, it's amazing.
You, it was, it's amazing.
And I was like, yeah, but you just told me that you've only read
three or four books your whole life.
And he's like, he's like, well, I mean, I, I leave it like
magazines sometimes, but mostly what I read is contracts.
And it's like, so you're comparing me to government contract?
Like, that's not a fair, you know what I'm saying?
Like, I don't feel good about myself at all now.
But at that time he was trying to manipulate me
into a position where I would write a story.
Yeah.
So that he could ultimately rip me off and leave me in prison,
which is what he did.
I mean, he's good at what he does.
He's great.
But why do you think he's so deeply unhappy?
He's scamming people.
Well, I mean, I think you can scam people and still be happy.
For sure.
But there's always that thought back there where you're doing,
you're doing wrong.
You're doing, yeah, you're doing dirt.
And fucking people were out for you.
And that's what I think.
He's so overly blatant about it that deep down you,
you know, you're fucking people over.
You know what you're doing is wrong.
But he values, he clearly, and he's not ashamed of it,
that he values money over everything.
Absolutely.
But what's propping up that value?
Why does he value money?
He's just a deeply unhappy person.
He's super insecure.
I mean, why is he insecure?
I don't know.
I mean, he was taught, he talked about like,
so they grew up in the kind of the shadows of like a very,
of a wealthy area, but they didn't have money.
His billion, his uncle's a billionaire apparently,
or grandfather's a billionaire.
Packhouse said he's got a billionaire uncle,
or not uncle, grandfather.
Which one?
Like, I don't know who that is.
So, you know, the uncle he worked for in LA at the pawn shop?
Yeah.
His father, a billionaire.
Oh, okay.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, you're right, you're right, you're right.
You're right, I forgot about that.
That's how he got that pawn shop.
Well, it's not just pawn shop.
He sells guns, he sells, he's the one.
He does government contracts, right?
He's the one who got him in kind of like,
you know, and then Deverelli immediately started going in
for the weapons.
Right.
Yeah.
You know.
But think about it too, he's super into weapons.
Like, it's basically, it fills some kind of insecurity.
That he's got.
Do you hear that?
Yes, the AC.
Oh, okay.
Like, it fulfills some kind of insecurity that he has.
Like, he can't have a long-term relationship with like a woman.
He can't, you know, he can't have long-term friendships.
He can't, everything has to revolve around money.
And the thing about him is like, he's the kind of guy
that you'd go out, he'd pay for everything.
You know?
But, you know, if there was a deal, he'd fuck you out of it too.
He'd hold shit over your head.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, he didn't mind spending money, you know, a little bit.
Like, it's, but think about it.
If you're a multi-multi-millionaire paying 80 bucks for dinner.
Yeah, it's nothing.
Isn't that big of a deal?
You know, and keep in mind, he's doing it.
He wants you to like it.
He wants you to feel good.
Yeah, he's getting some out of it.
Right.
And at what, and at some point, I may need you.
Yeah.
Oh, so you let me fuck it.
So, oh, for two years I've been buying for, buying dinners,
getting you into places, doing this, doing that,
filling your car up with gas, doing all these nice things for you.
And now what I asked you for, one thing, one thing,
that's the kind of friend that you're like, Jesus, calm down.
Okay, bro.
Yeah, I'll make the call.
I'll make the call.
Jesus.
Is he very, is he physically intimidating?
He is, but he's harmless.
Like, it's all bluster.
How tall is he?
Oh, he's, he's five, five, eight, five, nine.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
But he's, he's like, he's, he's in good shape.
Like he was last time I saw him at the strip club.
He was in good shape.
When was that?
He was in good shape when he left, left.
He looked fat as fuck in his mug shot.
Oh, he was fat.
Yeah.
In the mug shot, what happened was he, he typically was thin.
If you look at all the photos online, when he was, uh,
when he was doing the deals, he was thin.
And then when he was placed on the ankle monitor on pretrial release,
he couldn't leave home.
So he's eating, he's sitting at home.
He can't do drugs.
So what's he doing?
He's, he's ordering pizza.
He's eating, he's eating, he's like, he can't do anything.
But this is a guy who's got a compulsive personality.
Yeah.
He's still doing deals.
He's still in his condo doing deals.
You know, but I mean, he's doing, he's hustling nonstop,
but he's, he got real fat.
So when they eventually, when they arrest him,
they take that picture, he's fat.
But that, and that's the big thing is like, you had this,
the one time he was fat in his life,
you end up having Jonah Hill play him.
Like that the whole time.
Right.
But that's not how he was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Plenty.
He's probably still doing arms deals, right?
He's probably still doing film, the film government contracts.
He's doing the same thing.
He's got to be.
I'm sure he's doing something.
Like, did Pachaus talk about,
did Pachaus talk about him suing him?
Because, you know, Pachaus and Raul for suing him.
Currently.
But they were, I don't know if they are, that's what I'm saying.
He didn't talk about that at all, no.
Okay.
So maybe they settled that lawsuit.
Maybe.
You know, he was trying to sue him saying, hey, we had a deal.
Yeah.
You know, we had a deal.
What, you know, I worked all, I did all this work.
I was, you know, worked for hours and hours.
Like I'm working my regular job as a masseuse.
And then I'm coming here and I'm working eight or 10 hours a day
for you.
And then when all the money happened,
all the money came in, you took the money.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pachaus was mainly just like, he, you know,
he talked about like in hindsight,
he regrets just basically being so naive to him
and basically trusting somebody who he should have
done his background and being just very naive.
And I was explaining to him like, dude, I'm like,
you were in your 20s.
Yeah, you're a kid.
You did so much.
You did, you did so much and learned so much from it.
Even if you didn't make that much money,
it was still such a fucking important experience, you know,
and you learn, I mean, just the lessons you took from it.
What's Pachaus doing now at such a young age?
Typically people get fucked over in his situation.
Sometimes it takes people to their 40s or 50s
till they get fucked over and they learn,
you know, human nature like that.
What's Pachaus doing now?
So now he's got these inventions.
He's like inventing these business.
He has this one, one business called,
what was the toothbrush thing?
Instafloss.
He's got this thing called Instafloss.
So you know those like water picks that people use
to like floss our teeth?
He's got this water pick thing that basically,
look, this is it.
You put it in, you put it in your mouth
and it does the tops and the bottoms.
You just click this.
You go from one side to the other
and it does tops and bottoms,
flosses in between all your teeth with water.
Oh, so it's like a stream of water shooting through like a jet?
One shot jet across all your teeth in once.
It's pretty cool.
Check it out.
Watch it.
Play the video.
It's only a minute.
It's only a minute.
Because flossing blows.
This looks pretty cool.
I feel like her teeth were that white before she flossed.
Oh, maybe it's possible.
But it's possible that he, the flossing did that.
So he's, yeah, look at that.
How sick is that?
Yeah, I need that.
Yeah, I need that too.
Actually, I'm going to go buy one.
I was going to say, did he bring you one?
Yeah, he brought one in and showed it and like demoed it.
Demoed it.
You got to leave one.
I know.
I wish you would have.
Where do you buy them?
Are they on their website right now?
Pre-order at Floss.com.
So $100.
And he's got another thing.
He's got another business called,
it's a sound, it's basically what it is.
It's a beat.
It's basically like a drum machine for guitarists
that you operate with your foot.
So like guitars when they play,
whatever, they play tracks to certain songs,
whatever, they have to have some sort of like,
this is it right here, a beat buddy.
So it's like a drum machine that you operate with your foot
for musicians.
It's pretty cool.
I guess it's like one of the first of its kind.
So a lot of those out there.
Yeah.
A lot of, a lot of what's it called or a lot of these?
A lot of these.
Yeah.
So they have all kinds of different music,
like musical equipment.
It's pretty cool though.
So that's his main business right there.
I guess that's worldwide.
And that's pretty successful already.
But his newest startup is that InstaFloss thing.
It's interesting.
And I don't play the guitar.
He's an entrepreneur.
I understand, but yeah.
Yeah, bro.
Like, you know what, what's so funny too is like you,
you do something like that, right?
Like you bust your ass for a year or two,
put it together, get the stuff, get the designer,
get a, you know, someone to manufacture it,
the whole thing.
And then the money starts to come in.
And then like, so like you struggle for years.
And then the money starts to come in.
And then he'll, now he's, now it's freed up his time.
Now he'll end up, end up inventing something else.
And something like, you ever noticed that?
Like guys will get a little bit of money.
And next thing you know that, boom, they blow up.
And it's like, why?
Well, because now I don't have,
I got money coming in to pay my bills.
I can now dedicate all my time to this project.
Right.
You know what I'm saying?
Like it's that sacrifice of, of years to get yourself to a point
where you've got that residual income coming in.
And now you can really put your time into something.
That's why I like, it was what?
How long did it take him to come up with the first one?
Now he's already got the floss thing.
Exactly.
Was Denny work a couple of years, two, three years,
to get the, the beat buddy?
Now it's suddenly, boom, this, this one, now it's going to be
that one and that one.
And while she'll end up having fucking 50.
And then he'll be a billionaire.
I know he's been, yeah.
I know he's been dealing with the, the whole like supply crisis,
supply chain deal with China, trying to get his stuff in
and get it manufactured.
China.
Um, he was also, it was, it was, it was really interesting
was he was talking about Ukraine.
And he was like, cause he spent a lot of time dealing with
people in Ukraine buying AMO and buying arms.
And he was explaining, I was explaining like the,
he was explaining, um, basically, you know how there's like
billions of dollars being funded into Ukraine to fight this thing.
Um, he was saying a ton of it's going in their own pockets.
No, no, he wasn't saying that.
He wasn't saying that.
But basically he was explaining that like a lot of it
is coming straight from the U S.
So it's a lot of our supply that we already have.
So it's not like that.
Like traditionally to fund wars like this,
U S would go to companies like Raytheon or Boeing or Lockheed.
And it would take months.
They would have any stuff now put the contract out.
People would bid on them, but they need stuff now.
So it's coming directly from our supply.
And because we're supplying them with stuff that we already
have our reserves, we're basically older stuff.
They're getting the debt.
So now Ukraine's into debt and debt to us for all this stuff.
Um, so they got.
Yeah.
The Ukraine got up now would now.
Now they got to win because they owe us money.
The Ukraine thing is crazy.
It's because like we're escalating like the most terrifying thing.
Mankind is aware.
Like the most terrifying threat to mankind since World War Two.
Nuclear war between the U S and Russia.
Right.
Right.
And we're just escalating it and pushing it and pushing it and pushing it
and trying to escalate this war with Ukraine.
And, um, there's this video I sent Austin, Austin, pull up that video I sent you earlier.
There's this.
What's this guy's name again?
Colbert.
Okay.
Gideon.
Gideon.
What is it?
Is that how you say it?
Gideon.
Gideon Rose.
Play this.
This is fucking crazy.
So this is like, this was three years ago on Colbert Airport.
Have you seen this?
No.
Play this.
So basically what he does, he explains everything that's going on right now basically in Ukraine,
but we're currently denying it all.
We're just saying we need to support the people in Ukraine,
but we've been backing this fucking mad dog Putin into a corner forever, like expanding NATO.
And, you know, Putin even talks about it, how there's all these rocket sites,
these missile sites that are in Poland and in these other countries surrounding them,
former Soviet Union countries that could be within minutes turned into offensive
launch sites to launch nukes.
Right.
And we're saying, no, no, no, we need to, you know, Putin's this crazy fucking psychopath
who could just, you know, destroy the fucking planet with his nukes.
But this guy basically explains what's going on right now between the U.S. and Ukraine and Russia.
Three years ago.
This is three years ago.
But they won't talk about this now.
I think what he's referring to right now is there was a coup in the Ukraine in 2016.
It wasn't the, was it the, when they invaded Crimea?
Was that the point?
This is not Crimea.
No, I think this is, this is in 2016, I believe there was a coup in the Ukraine,
basically where the president of the Ukraine was elected and he decided to like do some sort of
trade deal with Russia and like stay, I'm fucking not saying this the right way, but
stay friendly to Russia.
Right, right.
And there was this uprising in the Ukraine where all these people basically put like,
took over the capital.
It was basically all the cops in the Ukraine versus all the people in the Ukraine fighting
tons of people died.
Tons of people got arrested.
There were snipers shooting civilians and cops.
And there's a whole documentary about it called Ukraine on Fire.
And the CIA was allegedly involved involved in pushing and in supporting this coup.
So the U.S. instigated this whole thing because they didn't want a president in the Ukraine
that was friendly with Putin.
Right, right.
So, okay, go ahead and keep playing the video.
Fucking just laid it all out for you.
Yeah, it's crazy, man.
Yeah, and there's there's recorded there's recorded calls in Oliver Stone's documentary
called Ukraine on Fire with the secretary of state, Victoria Newland, who was heavily
involved in Iraq when Biden was vice president to Obama.
And they're talking about like installing a new regime in Ukraine and it's all recorded.
And she's like, fuck, she says, literally, she says, fuck the EU on the phone call.
It's all in the documentary.
It's fucking insane, bro.
Yeah, well, I mean, you know, it's it's like the United States does, you know,
what's in their best interest.
And, you know, Russia does what's in their best interest.
I mean, everybody's trying to do what's in their best interest.
You know, we believe that we believe that our version of the Ukrainian future is the best
course of action for them.
It's also the best course of action for us, of course.
And Russia believes that they don't like the fact that that they're moving or that they want to
move towards more toward the towards the UK or the European Union or the West.
And they don't want them to do that.
And they wanted to stay kind of under their umbrella.
They want them to kind of be that buffer between them and Western Europe.
And so you want to know what's crazy in the beginning of this whole thing.
Ukraine and Russia had a deal.
They literally had a deal for Ukraine to become autonomous and to for Russia to basically
keep control like the Donbass Eastern region.
Right.
And don't and don't don't don't join NATO.
Don't join NATO.
Right.
We'll leave you alone.
There was a whole deal.
And then we stuck our foot in it and it escalated into this crazy fucking fiasco.
It's crazy, man.
I mean, I get it.
You know, I hear you.
I hear you.
Everybody's looking out for their best interest.
There's a video.
Actually, I just saw on Twitter today.
There's a video.
Have you seen it?
There's a video of Zelensky standing there with these two big giant.
I don't know how tiny he is.
I didn't realize how tiny he was signing the NATO application.
He's like, I signed this application.
It looks like some fucking goofy like spoof video.
Can you find that video of Zelensky signing the NATO application?
It's fucking hilarious.
It looks like something that like Comedy Central would produce.
What do you got?
I'm gonna take my fortune, too.
Look at mine.
It's all fucking tore up.
All your sorrows will vanish.
I don't really have any sorrows.
Yeah, I was going to say, what sorrows do you have?
I'm hap- bro, I'm happy.
Living with a chick I'm in love with.
I'm engaged.
I'm engaged to be married.
I mean, I'm-
Fucking swole, 185.
On the sauce.
Oh, jeez, stop.
Things are going good.
I've got testosterone, libidos, shooting through the fucking roof.
I mean, money's not exactly coming in, but I'm doing okay.
I'm doing okay.
I'm paying my bills.
It's good.
Bottom right of the video.
Look how tiny.
Is he like five foot tall?
Like, I mean, who are-
Look at these guys.
Look at this shit.
Let me admit, this guy's in the trenches.
Bro.
I have Vladimir and this is ridiculous.
What's another German name?
I'm another Russian name.
Look.
Is that his real voice?
NATO.
I don't know.
Who reviews his application?
I want to know that.
The Biden.
Listen, I think it's going to get approved.
I feel strongly about that.
Jesus Christ.
Listen, I did a thing the other day for this German company,
for a production company in Germany for a show that they're doing.
Listen, every time they talk German, the only German I've ever seen,
or like I've been to Germany, but when I was younger,
but the German shows that you've seen are all Nazis.
You know, World War II.
So the moment they start talking,
I'm thinking, they're like, all I can hear is like,
take this one to the gas chambers.
I mean, every time they talk, it's like, oh my God.
It's terrifying listening.
It's a horrible language.
It's horrible.
It's not sexy.
Sounds a little angry.
It is.
It's not like French.
It's like French is like rolls off their tongue.
It's like, oh, it sounds nice.
It's pretty.
They start talking.
And I think I'm in danger.
I'm in danger.
Like all the women.
All right.
Let's wrap this up.
This has been a wonderful two hour.
How long were we?
It's nine o'clock.
What time do we start?
This is almost three hour podcast.
Take the women.
Thanks for coming.
Adios.
Good night, folks.
