Play this video. What's this video called? Patriot sweep. How old is this guy?
He's got to be in his like 80s, right?
Roderstone? I'm not too sure. He's definitely smooth, though. I'll tell you.
He's got a giant, doesn't he have a giant tattoo of Richard Nixon on his back?
Yeah, it's not too big. Not giant, but that's me and my dog Enrique right there.
Enrique Tarrio. Look at this guy. This dude, that's awesome.
I don't even know what he really does. What is he? What is he?
He's got some podcast and doing his stuff. He was a great friend of Donald Trump.
Wasn't he? Harder by Trump. Oh, okay.
I'm going to start dancing here in a minute. So we shot that outside of the CPAC two years ago.
I remember it was received. But pause that. Go back and try to pause that.
On the bike? Yeah, I'm going to show you something. So pause that.
Like this is what I'm talking about, the MAGA community.
Did somebody show us up with a bicycle with a picture they got with me
on the back frame riding around all day? I didn't call him and say, come out there.
This is like, these are why I'm outside with the people.
You know what I mean? This guy had that done himself. He riding his bike, riding around
with pictures of me and just showing that he's with me. That's amazing.
You know what I mean? That's crazy fan base. Yeah.
What? So what's the deal with that Matt Gaetz, guys?
Look at this guy. My dog is riding a stone. So Matt Gaetz, you know.
Like, I didn't know anything about him until that whole scandal came out.
But I mean, not to speak too much crazy on it, but everyone, they put a scandal on you.
You know what I mean? Being successful is a gift and a curse.
And it's almost the biggest curse ever because they're going to try to get any dirt they can
get on you and just hold it for the right time. And then be like, yeah, yeah,
check this out. You don't want to pass this or do this. This is going to come out.
I mean, sometimes with Pence, who knows what they had on Mike Pence,
turn his back on Trump, right? Let the votes go through.
That's why a lot of people were so pissed on January 6th and Patriots, you know, Mike Pence.
But how do you know Mike Pence sometime in his career or something,
then a day to 17 year old or something crazy happened.
And they're like, we're going to do this. I mean, it's dirty.
There's dirty pool in politics.
You know, it's almost a little scary for some of these people.
So someone like Roderstone to show me well, be in my videos.
Matt Gaetz, you can look up him. I did a song and video with him.
He's in my music video. So like, Roderstone was inside CPAC.
All these people outside can't get in CPAC.
So he comes outside with a thousand people out here in the streets.
They're like, it's Roderstone. And that's the only way we could do the video
is the 4G Auto Blow. People respect him.
Because if not, man, screw your video. We're taking photos of Roderstone.
But I'm like, yo, everybody back and watch the show.
I got Roderstone 15 minutes period.
And all the Patriots say, yeah, cool, bro,
stood back, let us do our video. And then he went back inside.
He literally said, I'm going to come outside 15 minutes real quick
and make it happen for you. I parked the truck in front of the hotel,
right? The security came out and was like, this truck's got to go.
And I said, better tow it. I don't know where the owner went.
He took off because I know I'm not moving this car.
Roderstone about to be out as I'm shooting this video.
Security's called 911 on the other side.
So one of the reporters did this clip and it did like 3 million views
in a day on my TV. It went on CNN everywhere.
And you can go, I got all types of clips online like CNN putting me on out there
on January 6th. I was shooting a music video and they're like,
as this is going down, look at this guy shooting a music video.
You know what I mean? The end of the day is like, these people,
they're not clout chasing. They're just respecting what I'm doing for the movement.
And they're like, you know what? I'm going to go get in this.
But they've seen me since 2016. So it's not like they're like,
they believe that it's genuine. You know what I mean? It's genuine.
So they're like, you don't need no money for me.
All you want me to do is come hop in and let's go. Which is cool.
And it gives me a good look. And it also helps them because they look
and like, this is a new way to get to the people.
It's a new way of getting your name out there.
It's not the same grassroots campaign they do years ago.
Roderstone There's no, I mean, how the fuck do you
go out? You said you spent how much on a video? Average?
Roderstone So this video probably like 5,000 on this video.
And how many of you, there's no way that all these videos make their money back.
Roderstone They don't.
Roderstone So you're just dumping money into this shit.
Roderstone Dumping money.
Roderstone But it's a brand.
Roderstone You're like the Mr. Beast of hip hop.
Roderstone It's the brand. If you go like, so that's
that, of course, go hit to my page real quick, right? Hit that.
And then if you hit videos, and then like scroll down a little bit,
scroll down a little more, keep going. See that far, keep going down one more.
Right there on the bottom left, right there to the left.
This video probably made me the most money until they demonetized it.
Roderstone Really?
Roderstone So this was like, let's go branding.
Roderstone Like, let's go branding was crazy.
Roderstone Oh yeah, I remember this video.
Roderstone This isn't like, hey, you know,
I'm paying everybody $10 an hour to come out. Like these people really
genuinely rock with us in the moment in Trump. And you know, it's just
being the same person these people always see. But there's nothing wrong with this video for
to be demonetized. Roderstone No.
Roderstone Because it says fuck.
Roderstone No.
Roderstone Like, every video in the world says fuck.
Roderstone Fuck Trump's probably not demonetized.
Roderstone You know, so it was just something though that did,
but I always just try to put the people in the video and involve them in what I'm doing.
Roderstone Yeah.
Roderstone And also, you know, then if you got a video with 200 people,
it starts off with 200 shares. Roderstone This episode of the podcast
is brought to you by Versus Game. Our question of the week this week on Versus Game is,
will Ethereum be above $1,900 on Friday, June 3rd at 1 p.m. Eastern time?
Go click the link below. Back to the show. What do you think about the,
what do you think about that whole QAnon thing? Did you see that QAnon documentary?
Roderstone Yeah, so one of the guys from there.
Roderstone That shit was wild.
Roderstone But I've never really been big on that.
Like, you know, Trump's coming back two months, three months, three months. Like,
I don't get lost in it, but I mean, it's pretty deep. I wouldn't say I'm not really in that.
I'm not hating on someone who is, but I'm not. Like, I just haven't even
took a second. Like, you gotta spend a lot of time on that, you know what I mean?
Roderstone Yeah.
Roderstone And to get in. And then I'd be rapping about, like,
they're already saying I'm rapping about, you know, false narratives and medical misinformation
and voter and, you know, if I start rapping whatever they're talking about,
my video's not even gonna get released. Roderstone Yeah, that's true.
Roderstone But the guy actually in one of my videos who got locked up,
they had the horns at the Capitol that day. He's in my video I shot on January 6th and I think
he knows a lot with the Q on stuff. Roderstone I think he's still in prison,
isn't he? Roderstone I think he got out or he got sentenced already.
Then he got sentenced. This problem was his spear. I'm not to speak too much on this stuff.
I'm not 100% sure, but his spear had like, he had the spear. And if you look at videos of him in
there, he's just like, I want to charge my phone. He's walking around like, I'm at the desk,
I think he left a note for somebody and that was a problem. And the spear they used that as
like a deadly weapon. So you're not just in here anymore. Roderstone I listened to an interview
with that guy. He seemed kind of fucking wacky. He seemed like, I mean, he was like super into
psychedelics and stuff like, and the super into like, you know, all these crazy. Roderstone
But I didn't really know much about, you know, that's a thing. So I might have a video
and you might have robbed the bank and you're in my music video. It doesn't mean I rock with
bank problems. Like you are my video. So some people came to me about some of the videos on
January 6 and said, yo, you got my people in trouble. And I'm like, well, they shouldn't have
been in the music video. They shouldn't have been in the music videos. I'm not telling you
everybody video time. You want to be a star and be in a music video. That's all you. So one guy
I know got locked up for a long time. He came to me. A lot of people were saying to leave the video
because it's getting him in trouble and physically him. So I never said that. I shouldn't have got
on that video. I didn't want I was in the video. And then later on, he's in my music video. Then
they got a picture of him in the Capitol. So they're able to say that is you on that day because
you're also out here in this video. Yeah. Right. We, uh, we, uh, I have a friend who's on this
podcast. He's a lawyer and he, um, represented a guy that was, went to the January 6 riots.
And my buddy who's a lawyer, he's a Democrat. He's like a lifelong Democrat. He's like,
considers himself very liberal and like left leaning. And he represented this guy, um,
who was a part of the whole riots. He got charged with, he got charged with throwing
a fire hydrant and a cop, I think, which was some sort of battery, but he like,
like, dude, literally there's footage of, he threw a fucking fire hydrant.
Some people out there were just doing the most, you know what I'm saying?
And, uh, he said that when he first met the guy, like he had no problem representing him.
Like he's not one of those people who's like crazy, but he invited him to his house and
they met and they talked about it. And he said, this guy started talking about,
you know, Patriot this, I'm a Patriot. I'm a real Patriot. And he was like, dude,
shut up. He's like, we're all like, stop trying to like say that you're the only Patriot.
He's like, we're all Patriots. So that's one of the things he realized. Like, like,
that's one of the things that shocked him that kind of like stood out to me when I talked to him.
He was like, it's so crazy. I feel like he represented him still not having the same
belief. Yeah. He's like, you don't have to like, he said to him, he's like, you don't have to
keep saying that you're a Patriot and that all you guys are Patriots. He's like,
he's like, I'm a Patriot too. Just cause I'm a Democrat doesn't mean I'm not a Patriot.
Just cause I don't agree with everything that you did. He's like, I'm still here,
fucking being your lawyer, working pro bono for you. And pro bono. That's crazy. You know what I'm
saying? And that's what some people don't get. That's what I was trying to say. That's like,
that's great to hear a story from the other side of someone still can look at somebody's
livelihood and say, you know what, it's rare, but it's still amazing to hear. And I'm glad you
gave him a shout out about it because that might open some other people's minds and say, oh yeah,
you know, like there's been people that weren't pro Trump like that. We lost relationships.
And now they're like, you know, what's up, bro? Let's go to Hooters or like,
yo, what's up, man? How's the music going? Or, and I'm like, you know, I'm not going to be like,
no, I'm never talking to you again. Cause you didn't talk to me because I like Trump. Yeah,
what's up, bro? Let's chill. And now they're like, man, I was wrong about Trump, man. Or
I'd rather be that person that say, well, you can still kick it. You know what I'm saying? We
can still be cool than holding a grudge. Like life's too short to hold grudges. You know what I'm
saying? Things happen to people every day. You know what I mean? If COVID was so crazy, we all
could have got COVID and died and never would have seen y'all again. I like being able to see you
and see how far you then came and see the podcast, see your numbers go crazy. I like being able to
go watch the videos and tell people like, yeah, go watch this first video I did over here. Like,
I send that video to a lot of people that is day still. It's just a growth and you can go watch
that video and then watch me now. I'm a different person. I've grown up, which is the way it's
supposed to be. Like, yeah, we all fight for the same country and we might have different thoughts
why it's going on. But I'll be the first person to say when something's wrong and I don't agree with
it. I don't agree with everything Trump does. Trump's pushing the vaccine. I don't like the vaccine.
But when I go for a president, he's pushing it. Yeah, he's behind it. Johnson and Johnson,
he just praised him the other day. But my biggest thing is Trump's not pushing a vaccine mandate.
See, you could be pro vaccine. My family's members got a vaccine. They still got COVID,
but they got a vaccine. That's not my problem. My problem is when you mandate something.
You want to take a vaccine? Go ahead, my brother. If I don't want to take a vaccine to make a song
about it, you can go make a song on how much you love the vaccine. They did it. They did it with a
juvenile and I think many fresh or whatever they did the redone. Well, that's all. Then they get
demonetized and they're talking about vaccines. What about the people that think that's medical
misinformation? They don't care, right? But I got a song no vaccine, so we should all be able to do
we do. But when I tell you, hey, you're going to have to keep this job. You got to get a vaccination
because what? Why? Well, they're going to give me so much money as a bonus if I get everyone
that works on your vaccine. One of my friends works out in the trade winds, right? And he was
like, I'm going to do a big this weekend with Joe. I got $500 extra on my paycheck. I'm like,
from what? Because I took that vaccine. And I'm like, what? You took a miss being real. Not a
hate. It's just $500. So that's like me telling you, say me and you sell drugs. And I'm like, bro,
we're paying all this money for this work. But me, I learned how to make it myself.
So check this out. Give you $500. Take this. Tell me what it does. I'll see you tomorrow.
You going to risk your whole life for $500 from me? I know a guy who's a cop who got paid. He got
the vaccine. He said he didn't want to get it, but they paid him to do it. It's tough. Tough decision.
Sometimes people got to take care of their kids and their families. It's a decision that he should
never had to make. Well, I mean, it's a decision that I mean, it's all well social. It's like your
status as far as like how much money you make. Like the poor people, like people low income,
a lot of cops are really low income, and they can't. Which is terrible because they don't get the
choice. They have the toughest job in the world, right? I got tons of back to blue songs that support
the police. I remember like back in the day, you know, the police would pull me over when I was
younger. I never did drugs, never did anything crazy. So I never was really worried, but it was
more like no seatbelts or like riding with loud music or two dark tent. Now cops pulled me over
and they gave me their badges. Like from back in the day, like, I love you back to blue song.
This is where I got my first job over here in San Antonio. Now I work on Terra Verde. You know what
I mean? And it's my biggest thing is with the police. I got tattoos on my face. I'm driving a
car that's black tent and you can't see in big rims on it, right? I'm not getting pulled over
with no driver's license or smoking weed or drinking. Like maybe if I was getting pulled over
and weed smells out of my car and I'm drinking out of a Styrofoam cup and I'm like, I don't
got an ID, then certain questions should come up, right? Police officers every day go to work not
knowing they're going to come back home. They have the worst job in America. Worst job. Imagine
having to deal with all the shit that you deal with on a daily, then deal with my shit, right?
You could be a police officer and going through with your family. If I met your wife, cheated on
you, you know what I'm saying? Or you're got double life going or kids are sick or, you know,
shit happens and then go deal with my problems today. And my problems should just be so easy to
deal with because you have no problem because you're a police officer, right? Or going to tell
somebody, Hey, your kid's day is not coming home again. You know, that's a tough, tough, tough job
to do for what they get paid and also go against the whole world because it's like they already
don't like you because you're a police officer. Now there are some bad cops, but there's bad teachers,
there's bad doctors, there's bad humans, there's bad Americans, right? But their biggest thing is
trying to make this to me like a communist country. So they want to right now take all these businesses
like me and you, they got our own brands and make it like we're only going to do two podcasts,
right? So like when I funny thing to talk about this, so the late show, you ever seen that?
The late show? Which late show? It's called the late show on TV. It's a big TV station,
big show, not the late night show, but the late show. I forget his name. Is it like Stephen Colbert?
He took my Matt Gaetz video, right? You can pull it up and show them this. He took my Matt Gaetz
video and ran it on their show, muted my words and did a parody to it saying that like I'm buying
pedophiles, pedophiles, zebras and all this stuff. So it was funny because they're trying to say the
Matt Gaetz scandal. He hired these rappers to get pedophiles to rap music for him, right? But let's
look at it from our view. There's people in the world that are being trafficked. There's people
in the world that are being raped and taken advantage of and have problems every day.
So you're fighting so hard against people that are pedophiles and all these issues,
but you thought it was funny to make a parody out of pedophiles? This is funny to run on this huge
show. This was on TV, this on the YouTube, but he ran this on his real show. Really? You know,
then this is a deformation of the character. So this is me and my boy J360 song, right? But
you think this is funny to put on the national TV to do a parody of what we're doing for Matt
Gaetz? So why is it funny to rap about the people that are really going through this?
It's not funny. So you see this. This is your footage? Yeah, our footage. They took our video.
It's me and my boy J360. And that's Matt Gaetz's show that's on my show at CPAC. And we shot a
video with him. Where are you guys at right there? On my show at CPAC? Were you at a night club?
Yeah. What's the name of the night club? Not too sure. So I didn't think about
pedophog zebras. I said, you know what I mean? These are different words and they threw all
this other stuff in the video, right? Yeah. And it has him like he's buying women. So my only question
is when is it okay for the left to do that and make a mockery out of people really going through
that just for their late night TV show? Our words were nothing like that, but you're going to take
it and make fun of the people that are really going through that. Yeah, it's always okay,
because it's the left. This is a huge, huge show. Of course. So I get write-ups like on the top of
Yahoo Business, Business Management, The Insider, The Vice, all these big name people talk about me
and I can't even talk about nothing because I'm demonetized, the platform. So all these guys hit
you up to do interviews? No, they just hit me up. Or they just kind of like just write about you?
Take my stuff and yeah, just do advice and people like that came out here.
Vice actually interviewed me. These guys just do like opinion pieces on you.
Yeah, but I mean, that's like, so people could say like, well, that's as big as it gets. So it's
like, hey, it's good. They're still talking about you, right? But it's not that because you're painting me
as being pro that now. So that's deformation. The character is fine. That's a lawsuit for him.
Can't take my words and change my word and say that I'm rapping. Let's go pedophiles.
That's unfair. Now watch, if I took his late night TV show and said, I hate black people,
I hate minorities, I hate the gays, I hate this and then put on my YouTube channel
and say, look what he said. Yeah, they'd be all over you. I'd have a big problem.
Yeah, right. Right. But at some point, they think they can just do whatever they want to us
because we're still little fish in the pond. You're independent and these guys are backed
by a major massive corporation. So like, who would sit around and say, hey, you know, some geek
somewhere that works for that show, then like, hey, we're going to pay you to write some bars
to come in and rewrap this song over it a couple thousand bucks and think it's funny.
Have you seen the interview or listened to the interview that Malcolm X did about liberals,
about white liberals? No. I got to send that to you, Austin, so you can play this.
It's pretty fucking wild. I just watched this documentary by this guy named Adam Curtis.
It's called Can't Get You Out of My Head and it goes like back to Mao and his wife when he
created like the CCP in China and how it relates to US politics. Oh, this is another thing I got
to show you too. I'm going to send two things to you, Austin. First, first play the... Will I be
able to hear the words? Yeah, he's going to turn the volume up. Where'd you see this at?
This documentary is called Can't Get You Out of My Head by Adam Curtis.
He works for the BBC. This is a documentary that he did about in 2001. So what's crazy is like a
lot of people over there from the BBC, they come over here and they shoot stories on me,
then they sell the stories. Really? The BBC does? Yeah, I did a lot of stuff on them on here.
So they come over here and they sell stories. So I go to come around me and I'll be like,
where's this going on? And they'll be like, we don't know. Honestly, we're just going to come
over here and ride around with you for a couple of days, go to the studio, meet your people.
Let's see what happens. You just do it, right? You don't have to ask too many questions because
you know that pretty much 90% of people are just going to... They're going to shit talk you, right?
Yeah, that or they're working on some great thing that's coming I don't know about.
You know? Yeah. I don't do nothing illegal. I'm not really worried about nothing.
Right, right. But at the end of the day, it's like, they just hit me up. I feel like we're doing
a documentary on a couple of things, I want you to come. There's like, so the one you guys put
out on me when you're done looking at this, I'll show you someone did a spin-off on you.
Did they really? From the BBC. They came here and they rode around in the car with me and talked
and did all this stuff. I had people emailing me asking me to send them footage. They were
trying to license some of that footage that I shot for something they were doing. I forget
what it was, but it was some European production company. Yeah, a lot of times they come over here
and they won't tell them what they're doing it for. Yeah, play this. This is fucking bonkers.
Turn the volume up. You have to take off one of your earpieces because we can't pipe it through
the audio yet. In this crooked game of power politics here in America, the Negro, namely
the race problem, integration, civil rights issues are all nothing but tools used by the
whites who call themselves liberals against another group of whites who call themselves
conservatives, either to get into power or to retain power. Among whites here in America,
the political teams are no longer divided into Democrats and Republicans. The whites who are
now struggling for control of the American political throne are divided into liberal
and conservative kings. The white liberals from both parties cross party lines to work together
toward the same goal, and white conservatives from both parties do likewise. The white liberal
differs from the white conservative only in one way. The liberal is more deceitful,
more hypocritical than the conservative. Both want power, but the white liberal is the one who
has perfected the art of posing as the Negro's friend and benefactor. And by winning the friendship
and support of the Negro, the white liberal is able to use the Negro as a pawn or a weapon in
this political football game that is constantly raging between the white liberals and the white
conservatives. The American Negro is nothing but a political football, and the white liberals control
this ball through tricks or tokenism, false promises of integration and civil rights.
In this game of deceiving and using the American Negro, the white liberals have complete cooperation
of the Negro civil rights leaders who sell our people out for a few crumbs of token recognition,
token genius, token progress. How fucking crazy is that? I mean, honestly, did you even know that
existed? No, but what I'm trying to say is that's your normal thing now. I mean, that's just the
blackface. You know what I mean? With the, you know, the whole party with the blackface is trying
to give people just a little bit just to make them feel like, you know what I'm saying, that
they're there and they got their back. And a lot of people these days are breaking from those chains
and being like, no, I want bigger things. I can see better things. That's what the Democrats on the
left. That's what this documentary really shows how during the 1960s, during the counterculture
rise up. It's a football game, like you said. It is. It's a political football game. It shows how
like the conservatives or the Republicans kind of, they had the stranglehold on the economy,
right? And the left, the only thing they could do was they like embedded themselves in culture
and art. Like they embedded themselves in the counterculture, in the art, the people who
were more about that kind of stuff and not about money. And they've basically used that or weaponized
that and use that as their sort of ammunition to come back. And they basically are using
the culture, the culture. They're, they're using, they're using musicians performing. All the people
trying to perform, you know, like at Joe Biden, where I was still like 20 people at it, like,
I've never seen a Joe Biden around. Which is key. Like I've never seen it. But it's so insane. I've
never seen a Joe Biden truck. I never even see people riding around bottom flags.
Right. It's just so insane how Malcolm X fucking was said this way back in the day.
I feel like I feel like a Martin Luther King or somebody that would have been down with Trump.
They wouldn't have been down with this crap that they're kicking. You know, right now,
they wouldn't have been down with this crap. They're kicking. I mean, even like this,
remember last year when people were getting the, the PPP loans?
Whoa, what the fuck?
What the fuck have you done, Austin? Jesus.
Oh, you changed your audio. You changed your monitors on your headphones.
What did you do? Why did, how did that happen? Change the output. Oh, okay. I see what you did.
So we're back going. Yeah. I think we're good. Okay. So remember like the PPP loans,
right? They really were like a setup for a lot of people. So it's normal like the normal tax drop.
So, you know, you might got one person that's like, Hey, I'm getting these PPP loans and everybody's
getting like $20, $30,000. Right. So then they're like, Okay, how do I get these? How do I get these?
Well, some will come to the neighborhood and say, I get you guys all the loans,
but I need $5,000 out of your money. Right. You don't know what these people are filling out
for you to get this $20,000. So the next time around when Joe Biden's sitting there and everybody's
going to do their taxes and the people that are on welfare and the people that are getting Medicaid,
they're like, well, you don't get that no more. What happened to Charlie's grass service that
made $100,000 and you got a PPP loan for it? Like people fall for their tricks. It's going to come
back and bite a lot of people in their ass that did that. Tom Brady got a PPP loan. I heard. Yeah.
Well, some people probably did with his business saying he lost, you know, it doesn't matter how
much money you're worth or you're making. Your company took a hit. It took a hit. Became free
money when a lot of people, I know people that didn't go get them because they were like, I know
I'm going to get like a million or whatever people, some wealthy people and I might blow it on something
or whatever. And then I got to pay it back. They got a lot of people pissed off and they realized
they weren't getting paid back because say if you had a company and you got a million dollars on it,
how many companies can sell today for a million dollars? Not that many. So you could just close
the door and got a million dollars to your company and said peace. Right. It's out. Right.
Got a million from my company. Like bankrupt it. Yeah. I'm out of here. So but a lot of people
signed up for that little bit of money and just had someone that knew how to do it.
Oh, I'll show you how to do it. But you're not looking at what they're putting down.
They're just thinking $20,000. Yeah. And now next time you know that that that income housing they're
living in or whatever it is down the line, they're going to be like, it's going to catch up to people.
Yeah. And they're going to be like, damn, I just sold out for $20,000.
They're going to say, well, it says you got a boutique that makes $90,000 here.
So you can't get the free benefits anymore. The Medicare or you got to pay this and pay that.
Well, that's not true. We took the money. It's not true. You go to jail.
Yeah. A lot of people went to jail. Yeah. A lot of people. I've seen some people on there.
I get Lamborghini, all types of stuff. They were just living it up for the moment. But
it just kind of crazy. I feel like how they try to, like you said, use the culture,
but they also trick a lot of people that don't know any better. They don't tell them,
hey, do this, but there is a shot that you could get in a lot of trouble for doing this too.
It's just like, do this. It's going to be great. Here.
And just fill it out and give you $20,000. What do you think it would take to
close the gap with the division? I feel it's closing and that's because I see it.
Do you think Trump should do anything different this time around?
I think what Trump's doing is great because even something as stupid as gay people to list
stimulus money, this and that, if you were a regular person or say you was a dope boy,
whatever it was, Trump gave you $1,200 to go flip. He gave you some money. The last stimulus
change. That's what David Lucas said. The last, the last bit of money he was trying to give you,
Nancy P was holding it back because she knew if the Trump gave them one more stimulus,
probably the election. Trump wanted to give you the money. Nancy P didn't give them the money.
Biden would rather give a fucking $10 billion to Ukraine. Well, like, look at this,
we can get a couple million dollars to build a wall, but we can build a wall for Ukraine.
Right, exactly. Yeah, we can sell all that money to Ukraine.
You know what I mean? That's beyond crazy. And imagine this to say if Hunter Biden was a Trump.
If he was?
Was a Hunter Trump. Imagine if he had Trump behind his name, like shit he would be in.
I see the, I see like stuff come across internet on him, though, like him like, you know,
beating people with whips and all types of sexual stuff.
Who, Hunter Biden?
Yeah, like people are like, you know, click play, Hunter Biden footage. I don't even want it on
my computer. I'm like, I don't know. But the thing is, it's like, if any of, you know,
junior or any of the Trumps had a laptop, man, be over for them, man. Yeah, being a lot of trouble.
Trump can't get away with nothing. So I feel like they don't got nothing on Trump because they did.
He'd be locked up. Well, yeah, they had to put some going back now. I mean, hindsight's always
2020, but going back now and like seeing some of the things that Trump did say, like, especially
during the debate, because he was fucking going out. He was really going after Biden about the
Ukraine and the China stuff, about how much money, how much money they were making over there
with his son, doing them side deals, Patriots, keep your eyes peeled. You know what I mean?
Have you seen that? I don't know if you've ever seen it, but there's a documentary Oliver Stone did
about Ukraine called Ukraine on fire. No, he made it probably in 20. I think I want to say he made
it in like 2015 or 2014. So early. Yeah. What's it on? It was on YouTube, but as soon as the
Ukraine things start to hit. Yeah, that's what it is. Oh, 2016. As soon as the Ukraine things
start to pop off early this year, YouTube fucking shut it off. It turned it off YouTube. They
fucking blocked it. Well, that's like 2000 mules. The movie just came out. I was telling you about
my boy Dinesh. It shows pretty much about, you know, the stealing of the votes and the ballots
and the mules and they're doing a big tech and everything's doing whatever they can do to censor
it. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. And they have my song 2000 mules in the movie, which is dope.
So the other day, like I see the song airing or Trump's up on stage and the song's playing the
credits. It's cool, man. You know, I'm doing some shows with them performing, but I just feel like
2000 mules is the name of it. 2000 mules. Can you find that Austin? Pull that up.
So I feel like freedom of speech is gone. Yeah. Do you think Elon will be good for it?
Everyone's so quick to be like, Elon, Elon, like, you know what I'm saying? He's not a diehard
Republican. He came out today saying he's going to vote red. You know what I mean? I read that
before I got here, but that's some, the problems with people sometimes are just so quick to like
jump on the team. You know what I'm saying? I'll be like, oh, that's what we're doing.
You never know if he's part of their plan. Do you like Elon? I like him. I like him because he's
hustler. Like anybody. I mean, make the Teslas and do this and that. Like he's genius. Do you
think he'll be good for Twitter though? I don't use Twitter. So I don't really care. I'll be by
Instagram and freeze my page. I just paid someone in London $7,000 for my Instagram page. He doesn't
even use Instagram. I don't think he's on there. I think I don't think he has a page. Probably
got it. Everyone has a backup page. Yeah. Burner account. The thing about Elon is he takes, he's
pretty reliant on the government. You know what I mean? With SpaceX. I mean, SpaceX launches
military satellites. They use SpaceX to launch all their satellites and military shit into space
since Tesla is super reliant on federal grants. Well, I feel like everything has an agenda.
You know, so everybody's so like, oh, he's bringing people back. Like, like, check it out.
When he bought Twitter, some people say he didn't fully buy it yet either. So I don't
really know the story. I saw someone that he backed out of it now because he got the attention
from it already. But say if he would have bought Twitter and it's done, then he reached out to
Trump like they say he did and bring him back on the platform. What's bigger? Elon bringing
Trump back to Twitter or buying Twitter? Bringing Trump back. Bringing Trump back for sure. So someone
like Trump is going to give you that power because he don't really know if you should get that power.
Well, Trump said he's not going to do it, right? No, he's not going to do it. But if I was Trump,
I would have said, cool, I want 20% of Twitter and here's the money for it. Exactly. Right. And
they were probably like, no. And then Trump's also like, I'm going to make you a super superstar now
by being the first one to bring me back. I don't need you to bring me back nowhere.
I'm Donald Trump. So Trump might go back there free six months later on his own.
Then that, unless it was rolled out a little better, like, hey, big Trump,
man, I got your back. You know what I mean? And I'm loyal and I'm going to show you I'm loyal to
bring you back on here. There's no hidden agenda. I'm going to give you 20% of this Twitter just
because and then Twitter would have went through the roof. So how fucking crazy would that be?
Trump ended up owning part of it. But bringing Trump back to Twitter would have been bigger
than buying Twitter. Yeah. That would have been the obvious. That's why Trump is the rock star of
America. He knows his value. So look, yeah. So like in 2024, where I tell you, when he comes back,
he's going to have the biggest rock star year of his life. People are going to have to rock with
Trump. Yeah. So the people that eat their words, not a media, they're always going to, you know,
fake news, go at him and your regular TV shows and your ratings. But Trump's the best things for
ratings there is. Yeah. Hate him or love him. He's winning. You know? But so like Elon, I don't
really know much about him, but a lot of, that's the thing. A lot of Patriots were so quick to be
like, yeah, we're going back on Twitter and do all this and that when you jump it on the Elon
train. They are. But I mean, I haven't, you know, I mean, my boy Bryson Gray put a song with questions
to Elon. I thought it was pretty dope. With questions to Elon. Yeah, like a song like Elon,
like you already got some questions for you to answer. You can pull it up. It's pretty cool.
What were the questions? You got to watch him hear him again. It was just like asking questions
like he's right with us, you know what I'm saying? Are you just doing this for the clout? Are you
doing this just to get a bunch of people out there and then switch it? You know, like what's
your intentions? Yeah, I wonder that too. I mean, he's basically, I mean, he's probably,
Trump was the most famous person in the world back when he was president, but now I think it's
Elon. Elon gets more attention than anybody right now. Maybe at this moment. Yeah, at this moment.
That's why I was so confused when I saw the other day that the Twitter thing wasn't done yet.
But there's a lot of fake tabloids. So I don't really know if it's real or not. I'm not there.
I'm not someone that's like, oh, yeah, he's official. I love him. I never met him. I think
what's happening is he basically signed, like he put an intent to buy it at $54 a share or
something like that. And then the CEO of Twitter is refusing to acknowledge how many of their users
are bots. That's what I was thinking. Yeah, he wanted them to release some data. I think what
Elon, because Elon's actually doing something where he's like trying to sell off shares of SpaceX
to actually buy Twitter. So I don't think he's trying to back out of the deal. I think Elon's
trying to get it for a cheaper price. I think he's trying to get a discount on it. Which I saw
that was saying some of the fakes, the fake bots or whatever. But it just like, you don't really
know everybody's intentions until you, I feel like till you meet somebody. That's why I told you, like,
when I met Trump, I was just hoping that Trump was that dude, like honestly. But I've came out
with songs and asked Trump questions. I said, you know, I wish big Trump would stop pushing the
facts. I was seeing them with fact check, they faxed, they always blame the Patriots. It was like
a lot of people were like, whoa, why are you going to Trump? Like, you got to vote. They don't give us
like 85 presidents to pick from or 10 presidents. You know what I mean? You got A or B. So us as
men or females, whoever you are, you have to look at somebody and say, I agree, eight out of 10,
seven out of 10 with this person, 10 out of 10, whatever it is. And no, this is the best for
me as a person and what I'm doing. So I respect Trump and what he's doing the most. I'm not going
to agree with everything Trump says because I'm not, I was like, Trump said it's got to be gold.
You know, a lot of people are like that. Yeah, but I would have a problem with Trump if he started
pushing the like Dr. Oz. That was a weird endorsement. What happened with Dr. I don't even know what
that was about. Dr. Oz and you know, he'd be like, we'll be Goldberg and all them on their stuff.
But there's another Republican candidates, but that was out there in Pennsylvania. And Trump
kind of knew that he said that he might not be the best to most of the Republicans in their eyes,
but he's the best for us to be a Democrat, right? So he's kind of playing his version of chess
strategizing to come back in 2024 when a lot of people were like, I went and went with him. And
I don't know. You could pull it up. I don't know if he even won with Trump's endorsement. He was
last time I checked. He was only winning by like really close close. And when it's so close, they're
going to do a recount. But if Trump came out with like saying, I'm going to mandate air,
but take a vaccine. A lot of patriots would have big problem with Trump, you know, as long as you're
not forcing me to do something like my body, my choice, right? They all say my body, my choice.
I can get an abortion if I want to get my body, my choice. Why is it not my body, my choice,
take a vaccine? Why is it not my body, my choice to wear a mask? How did the fucking abortion
thing get so political? That's so fucking dumb to me. In some ways, I mean, so you would think
people should be able to have abortions? I don't fucking know. I just think it's a fucking, I
don't think I have, I have no real stance on it. Obviously, it's a super, it's a super blurry line
because when does when the two cells become a fucking person? I don't fucking know. I mean,
that's a, it's a, it's an ethical moral debate that I have no, I don't really have a hard
stance on it. So me being a patriot, you know, I just keep it due to myself, but I don't have kids.
So it's kind of hard for me to really talk about like people's children and bills for
children. That's all I did, the don't say gay act. I feel bad because I'm thinking like,
that's just too early. I'm not going to tell you how to raise your kids, but like second grade
talk about a tranny coming in here as a cross dresser. Kids do things for, kids do things for
attention. This is an attention thing. You know, when I went to school, if you were, you know, gay
or whatever it wasn't like a, hey, I'm gay and everybody's like, whoo, it was a quiet thing
right on the, on the, on the, you know, low down. Now it's like the most popular kid. That's the
attention. Now he's gay. He's got nail polish, whatever. But it comes from the culture, playing
the culture, making the rappers, paying their nails, you want all this money, whatever. So
with the abortion thing to me, it's like, it's tough because, you know, say if a woman was going
to get killed by having a baby, you know, what if the baby would kill her? Right? But then some
people say, well, people say that's very slim chances. Like it's not a chance that we really
think it is, but I'm not a doctor. So I don't really know there's some chances that take a stance on
that. Then again, say if a little girl or boy, you know, was being molested and the guy made the
little boy have sex with her or the guy had sex with a little girl and she was raped. That's a
tough thing to put her through all that. But if you buy the Bible, she needs to go through all that
and give the baby up for adoption. There's a lot of people out here that want it.
The Bible says that if you get raped, you should have the baby?
No, but I'm saying it's just abortions and people, you know, have,
and in the day, you should always keep the baby. It's a life. You know what I mean? But
my part is like, I don't have, I'm not a female, so it's kind of hard to tell a female what to do
with her body. But if someone's out here having 10 abortions a year, that's like a serious red
flag for them, for the world. You know what I mean? That you're just out, I got saw a song the other
day by Meg Stallion called Plan B, right? And it was like, I'm not getting stuck with you. You
think you're going to keep me? I'm just playing you. I'm getting your money, taking your cars,
delivering the life with you. And I'm popping Plan Bs because this is my Plan B. And that's just
disgusting to me for kids to be singing that and hearing that, like making these girls just think,
oh, I could just have unprotected sex. Like everybody was so worried about COVID, nobody's
worried about AIDS. No. People have an unprotected sex, like it's not a big deal. But COVID, whoa,
yeah, stay back. I'm asking. Yeah. Yeah. No, I know the weird thing about the abortion thing to
me is just like people will take a stance just based on their political identity. They'll just
be like, I'm Republican, so I'm anti-abortion. Meanwhile, the dude's fucking persons never
thought about it for more than five minutes. Well, there's difference. That's why politics is so
weird. Yeah, and it is. And there's liberals in the same way, too. Exactly. Because by the book,
me, I'm not the perfect patriot. You know what I mean? Like, I'm who I am. I keep it real.
You are the perfect patriot. Well, why would you say you're not the perfect patriot? No,
I'm saying how somebody would paint. Like, I got to be like... You're saying patriot is a Republican.
Yeah. How people would look at, like, what the statues are. You know what I mean? Like, I'm big
two-way. There's no reason anybody should have the guns. But then I don't feel great with anybody
that's being able to carry a gun for any reason. Like, I feel like guns need training. You should
be trained to have a gun. I don't feel like, just because you're not a criminal, anybody can
carry a gun. Then that puts people... Right? Like, the difference I try to tell people is like,
do you think criminals are like, well, I can't carry a gun because I'm a felon? They're still
carrying a gun. You know what I'm saying? So you still need to have your gun on you. The laws don't
do anything. I mean, the laws... Well, they're trying to change the laws now that anybody can
carry a gun. Right? If you're not a felon, you don't need any type of a... I wonder what would
CCW... How would that change? How would... How do you... How do you think... Anybody can carry a
gun. So how do you think... What would change as far as... It's gonna be all like Donkey Kong. People
gonna be popping off. And then it's quick. Like, the biggest thing is me. I keep my strap everywhere
I go. Right? I got nice stuff, nice cars. You never know what someone's gonna do. I'm not trying
to take somebody's life over a Trump truck and you don't like Trump. But like, if you're talking
shit to me and you... Now you can carry a gun. You got a gun to the window so I see the gun. Shoot.
Cause you can shoot me first. You know? But we need guns for protection. So like, on that bill,
on big two way, like, the government should take our guns from us. Cause then when they take our
guns, these other countries are gonna know we can't defend ourselves. They're pulling up.
Not to mention our own government's pulling up. Our own government. Yeah, they're the big ones.
That's what Trump said in that interview. What was that interview that he... I think it was a
Dave Portnoy interview that Trump did where he was talking about like, getting shit done
overseas with like, different countries with like, he's like, Trump, who was it? Who was the
hardest to deal with? Was it China? Was it Russia? He's like, no, it was the fucking United States.
United States. Yeah. And it was the thing he said. He said that he's like, you don't think that...
He's like, you think these other countries are killers? You think these fucking people in Russia
and China are killers? I saw some crazy videos in China with this, with this vaccine stuff over
there and like them killing all the cats. So that... Oh my God. I've seen crazy videos
that like, pets had COVID. So they're killing them. Damn. They had bags full of cats on the sidewalk.
You know, I'm not... I like the pets. I'm not like, I don't have any pets. I'm not very big on pets,
but you know what I'm saying? You shouldn't be getting your cat killed because you had COVID.
You know what I mean? And it's just crazy. So I'm big like on two-way. I'm big on freedom of speech.
But I think it's because my lifestyle, like, you know, I got a risk. I got a name. I stand out.
I want to be protected. I have a voice. I do music. I don't want my speech taken, which it has been
taken, right? The whole abortion thing. You know, I've never had a child. I've never had anybody
pregnant in my life. I haven't had to cross that path and really look at, you know, having a child.
It's a life-changing experience. A child is a big thing, but I think that they should still have
the baby. There's a lot of people out here that can't have kids. There's a lot of good people that
want children. And there's a lot of shitty parents that just want to adopt kids and maybe get money.
You know, they've got houses where they've got eight kids adopted and they just collect the money on
these people. You know, I saw some crazy thing on Netflix. They're going to be seeing this.
Our father. No, but it was about squatters because that is about a piece of property in Hudson.
And I went up there and I got squatters on my property. And man, I'm a different kind of person.
I told them, look, you know what? Y'all can stay here. But you know what? I'm getting a big dumpster
here tomorrow and you guys are going to earn your keep up here. No more free wind. I got this land.
I'm not going to live here for a while. Y'all can live here. You can stay in your little trailer you
got here, but you're going to clean. I'm going to come up here. You're going to paint all this spray
paint at it right now. They got a shower outside with a hose that says no stinky pussy spray painted
on it. Like, you know what I mean? I told them we're not going to live like that. I could get
you guys off it, but I'm going to let y'all stay here, but you're going to clean up. So there's a
Netflix thing that's like bad roommates. It's about squatters, right? And I had this lady on
there. Do you see what she had like disabled people living in her house and she was murdering them
and they called like the worst roommate ever. Yeah. She was, she was burying them in the back
yard. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Was she doing in the back yard? Burying. Buried them. Like she would move
in and you were disabled and she was still getting your check every week for you and she would open
a new room for the new person and people wonder where you went. She wouldn't say you were dead.
She just keep collecting your check for years and you're burying her back yard. Yeah, that was
that was crazy. And that whole thing was crazy. You know, roommates are a crazy thing. Yeah,
but we're living in a world when we were kids, it was like their strangers stay away from them.
And now we're like, get shit-faced drunk, take some drugs and call Uber or stranger pick you.
Yeah. You never know these days. Even like, you know, with the police, I always feel like if
somebody's getting pulled over and they want to drive to a Walmart or to a gas station with
their blinker on and they're not drunk and they're not throwing anything out the window,
there's no problem with that. They want to go to a safe place, say a woman or somebody was
getting pulled over and their dress half naked from somewhere and they're in the middle of the
interstate somewhere. They shouldn't have to take that chance. A cop shouldn't want to take that
chance. We'll just go 30 miles an hour to the next exit and get off. And we both protect
ourselves. Yeah. Sometimes I've gotten pulled over before, like I was driving to Tennessee for a show
and I was like going like a hundred miles an hour trying to get there in a quick shot.
And the lady pulled me over and it was like snowing a little bit. And she didn't, all she
wanted was my ID and just make sure I didn't have anything crazy. She didn't, she didn't want to take
it to the point where she has checked the car and be there too long. It was like, we make sure
you're not a fugitive or something. What you could have said like, well, you know, you got tattoos,
y'all smoke a weed, you got weed in the car, what's going on? You got your artist in there.
Like she didn't even want to get into that because there's six or seven of us and there's just her.
So it's not a good place in time. So she was just like, I'm not even going to do that. So I just
feel like sometimes people should, you know, be able to go to the safety net or do something like
that. Cause you know, shit happens every day, man, out here. Not everybody's having a great day. Not
everybody's the best kind of person. No. Yeah, man, the shit gets crazy, especially when cops are,
you know, aggro and paid low, not trained well, and they just want to fuck with you or whatever.
So I mean, a lot of those guys aren't having, you know, don't have the best lives and aren't
the happiest fucking citizens in our society. You know what I'm saying? It's like military. It's
like a lot of things. But there's a lot of good people out there that are police officers that
keep us protected every single day. And they do a lot of stuff. They take a lot of chances.
With their life to put us first when they're going home to their kids and their family. So
I always have respect for police. Like when I was younger, I would be, you know,
get pulled over and always think it was everyone's against me. Now I'm just like, man,
I got to pay my ticket. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Okay. I was speeding. I'm not going to give
you no excuse. Boom. And I mean, I mostly get okay with the police. It'll really give me any issues.
Yeah. I'm pretty vocal for them too that I backed the blue, but I guarantee if I was doing something
illegal, they'd pull me over and, you know, like a lot of people say like this happened, right?
This person so-and-so happened to them when I got pulled over. But they leave out there like
they had weapons, they were smoking weed, they don't have no driver's license, cars not registered.
Yeah. Like, you know, shit that you're not allowed to be doing. Yeah. You're not allowed to do it.
They forget all that from the story. Or they'll be like, you know, a black guy gunned down by a cop
when there's more white people being killed by police officers under Trump and they don't show
those numbers. More whites have been gunned down by the police. They just show the black
cases. Plus because there's more white people, right? They just show the black cases because
the black cases is clickbait and it gets attention. Yeah. They definitely do that. But there also
is a lot more white people. They're not going to care to be like, yo, Billy Bob got gunned down in
his trailer park or in his nice neighborhood fighting with his ex. They don't, it's not stories.
Yeah. They're not stories. Yeah. So look at the mass shooter. Look at the mass shooter.
The recent one? Yeah, I posted. What was the story with that guy?
And Buffalo. I repeat everybody on Buffalo. But there's been like 10 black mass shooters that
haven't hit the news in the last like two years. Have there? Yeah. I get my phone over there. I
can get it real quick. I can show you a whole list. I posted it today. Yeah, you can go grab it.
So yeah, I'm not sure the camera could pick this up. Send it to just text it to me. I'll send it
to Austin. I think I have you on my old phone. Oh, yeah, I might not have your new number.
I can air drop it to you, right? Yeah, air drop it to me.
Are you connected? You don't have to be connected to Wi-Fi for that, do you?
That's crazy because I thought most mass shooters were white people.
Is that just fake news?
Said I thought they're most.
There you go. Got it.
Somebody's okay. I got it. Boom. So
this doesn't make the news, though. This time of stuff.
So this is where did this come from? Where'd you get the screenshot?
It was on a new site today.
So these are all mass shooters in 2022 that never, the stories never made it like to mainstream media.
Google one of them. Who's this guy?
Google. Oh, the Brooklyn subway guy. Oh, that was a fucking crazy story. That was all over the news.
Yeah, but not as much as this one. They're not like white suprem, they're like a black supremacist
was out. Yeah, they said he was a YouTuber, wasn't he? I think so.
Now that was crazy the other day. That wasn't, that was a Marxist.
Like what happened the other day, that's like a, you know, a live video game.
That was crazy. I watched the body cam footage of that shooting and it was crazy.
One of my friends was like, Oh, I found it on TV. I found it on the internet when it was going down
and like FaceTime me and I saw it and I'm like, I was showing me that again pretty much like,
because that was just, it was body, body cam footage from a cop who showed up there.
Yeah, it was like, it was footage for the news. Got it. It was just all over the internet.
Someone said, yo, I'm, oh, wow, this is a live shooting going down.
What happened in the video? Like, what did it show?
It just showed like they're showing the news now, like him getting out of the car,
walking right in, catching his first two people outside, boom, boom, boom, walks inside.
That was the body cam of the shooter. Yeah, yeah, camera.
Oh, you mean he had his own camera? Yeah, it was a camera, the footage.
Oh, fuck. You didn't see the, the, no, I didn't watch it. I didn't see that either.
So the thing is, you could pull that up. Yeah, you got, I don't know, but I might have viruses on it.
So what was his story? What was his, that kid's story?
I haven't read much into it yet, but I know they're like, he's a white supremacist.
And that's how they're on. Right.
I'm not 100% sure that everybody who shot that day was black either,
but I'm pretty sure there wasn't. I'm pretty sure there was different races.
Yeah, I don't know. I haven't, I haven't looked into that story.
It was definitely a hate crime and just to get out and kill people.
Yeah.
Not excusing it. I'm just talking about, they don't talk about,
they don't get the same media as everybody else because it doesn't get the attention.
It doesn't fit what's going on.
Well, it's hard to know what the fuck's going on.
I think since like the Columbine accident years ago, it's like school shooters and
shooters are white kids.
They made it. Yeah.
It's like, you know, I've heard so many of my friends that are black playing around and
they'll be like, it's gonna grow up to be a school shooter.
You know what I'm saying? Or I see like little things.
Craziest thing happened today. Like I was driving here, right?
And there's a car in front of me. It's a truck.
And I see somebody like hanging out the window.
So I'm thinking like, maybe they're saying, what's up? I see my car.
And then as I look, I'm like, I see him with his finger going like this, right?
Something. I'm like, what's going on?
What kind of car was it?
A truck like a tundra out the window.
He's like, looking in the window.
Right.
So I'm like, hmm, then I look and it's a four door, you know, truck.
So it's a kid in the backseat.
So four rounded and then somebody's child out the window.
Oh my God.
All the cars.
It's a kid?
Yeah. And I'm thinking of myself like, damn, school shooter.
Jesus Christ.
I'm thinking of myself like, what the hell's going on?
Because I thought it was somebody like knew who I was.
And they're like, I'm going to shoot you or whatever.
I'll go around them.
And when I got up to the window, he's out the window looking at me.
He didn't do it to me.
He saw the car and he's looking like, whoa, you know what I mean?
But I'm watching them from far back the whole way.
This air shooting, everything around.
Oh, okay.
Yeah. That's fucking wild, man.
And some people play it on video games that you're about to say.
I never played a video game, but it just never played any video games.
Not in the video games.
Never in your life.
Never.
I might have played like some like Blitz or NBA Jam when I was a kid,
but not in the games.
I got to be outside of the house.
Never.
I play with like Michael Vick a little bit.
You don't fuck with the NFL, do you?
I go to a lot of the games.
I got season tickets because it's more like four jota blows in the house.
That's a great place for independent artists to take 500 photos with patriots and fans of mine.
Yeah.
Bring my truck outside.
I park it all the way up on the hill when everybody comes outside for the pre-party.
And it's like...
Is that your favorite sport to watch football?
Basketball.
Basketball is your favorite.
That's why they ruined it.
They put Black Lives Matter on the basketball court.
Yeah.
I understand that.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I still watch hit or miss games, but...
Well, the NBA has got a way better commissioner than the NFL does.
I think that guy's way better, for sure.
Well, I feel like the thing that they did in the basketball was just crazy.
It's like, you know, imagine if I had a white NBA basketball team.
What's that?
What if I had like a white basketball league?
White basketballs matter on the basketball court.
I don't think that's right just to write that on the thing.
Obviously, we know Black Lives Matter.
Jewish Lives Matter.
Spanish people matter.
Mexican.
I think that was more of a corporate thing that they did.
I mean, obviously, it's super hypocritical, but I think it's more like...
But they're like so American, but they're whole things in China.
It's all about money.
It's all about money.
LeBron's like, stop the stance, but he's got every Chinese person in the world making his shoes and clothes.
Right.
So pro-American, LeBron.
Yeah.
How much money are you donating to George Floyd's family?
Right.
You know?
Yeah.
Well, the thing is about like people like him, well, I mean, he's kind of an excited...
He really doesn't have much of an excuse, but like a lot of these guys, like a lot of these
young NBA players and NFL players, these guys fucking aren't paying attention to politics.
Not at all.
They just see that fucking this Black dude got fucking his throat kneeled on by a cop for eight
minutes, got killed, and they see that every other...
The same fact, dude, they put a gun to a pregnant person's belly like...
Right, but they just see...
Months before that.
But they don't know.
They don't look into it.
They should look into it.
They get the best communication.
Why though?
Because their fucking job is to play basketball or to play football.
Like, their job is being better...
But that's the difference.
Their job is to lead the kids that look out to them in the community.
There's a lot of people that look out to these people.
Yeah, right, but...
Someone like LeBron.
So like, Kyle Rittenhouse gets out.
He's free.
And LeBron is making fun of him the whole time on the stand.
Eating skittles, sour skills, just crying and all.
Right.
When does he have the right to do that to somebody's child?
When...
If that was an African-American kid up there fighting for his life,
he would not have been acting like that.
And to say, if I was like,
Oh, look at that dude crying and laughing and doing all this...
LeBron, I agree with you.
I agree with you on LeBron.
But I'm talking about most other NBA kids.
Most of these kids are in their early 20s and they're making millions of dollars.
But most of those kids aren't the ones taking the stand.
It's the bigger players in the league forcing them to take a stand.
I don't know.
I mean...
Why Kaepernick?
Say, let's go football.
Yeah, Kaepernick.
Kaep.
He's Kaep.
He's what Antonio Brown say about him.
He's all Kaep.
He's an indoor cat.
He's not an outdoor.
He ain't in the street.
That's what he said.
Funny thing is, I was so pissed when the Bucks lost Antonio Brown.
I know.
Me too, bro.
But he's like the Trump of football.
I was so pissed, bro.
Like, I love him.
He's a Trump of football.
And he's so loud.
Like, literally, he's like the Allen Iverson with the Donald Trump mix.
Like to walk off the way he did, do his stuff in the crowd.
Through his shit in the crowd.
But it's like...
He's amazing.
He is amazing.
You know what I'm saying?
And somebody would definitely pick him up.
When you have raw talent and sell tickets to make money,
you're going to get picked up.
Someone's going to pick him up.
You think?
I don't know if they will, man.
I think somebody should pick him up.
He said the other day that he was, but not play.
He just retired there.
He was a retireer, Pittsburgh.
I mean, he has the best stats of a wide receiver of all time over there.
Something happened with him and Brady.
You know, Brady got him over here with the Bucks.
I don't know.
I mean, I know he was living in Brady's house for a little bit.
You were saying?
Brady hooked up with Tony Robbins to try to get his mind right.
But I saw videos of him going through with his girl online.
And like, sometimes, you know, I was signed to NFL football player before Thomas Jones.
He's an NFL runner-back.
You know, when everybody thinks Rich White family of mine made my career,
I was signed to NFL football player that got me started and put his money into me.
That's a lot of people don't really know.
That's my first deal.
And that's who really helped me.
Who was it?
Thomas Jones.
He was a runner-back for the Bucks, the Chiefs, the Bears.
Me and him don't have any talking, you know what I'm saying?
We're not cool with each other.
But I'd metter his political beliefs or whatever.
I would never shit on him, anything I ever got on him
because he gave me an opportunity when nobody would.
I signed for free.
I took an opportunity.
He had me out here doing songs of French Montana, a little Dirk,
had me living in his mansion, driving his Rolls Royce, his Aston Martins.
So when people think like, oh, it's mommy and daddy money,
I was living with Thomas Jones and a football player.
You know what I mean?
Tell me, hey, I left.
I'm late to practice.
My Lamborghini broke down on the interstate.
Go pick it up.
Or, you know what I mean?
I need you to watch this.
So anybody who ever believes in you to put their own money into,
you got to respect them.
But the concussions and stuff are crazy, I know.
Because I used to have conversation with Thomas Jones.
He's similar to the same build as Antonio.
Oh, really?
Small guy?
Kind of small.
Like my height made, but he's big, you know what I'm saying?
He was from Virginia.
His family and mom were coal miners.
You remember his coal miner son on his chest?
His brother was Julius Jones.
He played for the Cowboys.
But I learned a lot of seeing him.
You know what I mean?
I saw how much money he was getting and what he was spending.
We'd go to the club.
We didn't want to spend a couple stacks on a rap,
but we could spend 10 bands on bottles.
You know, because it was just like the lifestyle of having.
So my point was a lot of people in the football,
they want to be rappers.
So Antonio Brown, like deep down, wants to be a rapper.
He's got this song, I'm from the dirt not the palace or something.
The pit not the palace.
The pit not the palace.
And that joins hard.
The video is hard.
It's hard.
I got to like it.
I got to do a feature with him.
I think he would be pro truck.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, probably.
I love how he dropped it the minute he ran off the field.
Yeah, he's got a good PR guy.
He's a marketer.
Oh yeah, well, it's not him.
It's somebody else probably.
But the end of the day is like,
when I was talking to Thomas Jones,
we used to have conversations
and then he would just completely forget what we're talking about.
Yeah.
And say, well, my bad, bro, what were we talking about?
Yeah.
Because they put their body on the line.
The point I was getting at before with the younger guys,
like in the NBA, for example,
like when they put those big Black Lives Matter things
across the floor on each side of the court
and they put those things on the jersey,
these kids who are like 19, 20 years old
that are just like their dream is coming true.
They're in the NBA or they're in the NFL.
They're making almost, say it's 500 grand
to like $4 million for the first time in their lives.
When I was 20 years old,
I didn't know fuck all about politics.
Nor did I care.
I didn't know about it either.
I agree, as I tell people.
Took me till you start making real money to get it.
And they're making real money.
That's the first day they're in it.
But if the company that's paying me a million dollars
and making me famous and is fulfilling every dream
and every other guy I'm playing with is doing the same thing.
You think Charlie Chris came to me right now
and said, well, I'll give you half a million dollars
and make a song about me and push it.
I'll do it.
Yeah, but you're not these guys.
You're different.
You're 37 years old.
You've learned, you're educated.
You know what, you're paying attention to things.
These guys have tunnel vision.
They're focusing on basketball.
Yeah, I'm agreeing with you on it.
I'm agreeing with you that it's the first opening.
But I think that when you make your first amount of money,
is when you really start to realize about taxes
and do things the right way,
take care of whatever debt you have.
I feel like people start to mature
when they start to get money.
So these guys are young just getting that first check.
I'm telling you like that, like I'm agreeing with you.
It didn't wait till I was like 30 something
when they care about political stuff
or care about what's going on.
It may take you to have a child.
I know you have kids, but you have a child
to realize, okay, well, I'm going to pay attention more
because this has to go with my kids' future
or what's going on.
So like I agree, they're in tunnel vision.
They're just playing their sports.
But the upper people know a lot better
and they should know a lot better.
I think they mature once you get the money and you lose it.
I think when you're young and you get the money,
it fucking sends you even crazier down the immature lane.
I think I was able to paint such a crazy lifestyle
when I almost didn't even have the money.
When I got the money, everything's boring to me.
And I'm able to like, I was with Thomas Jones.
I was with all this stuff.
I seen this, I done been to shows.
I don't live the lifestyle.
It was like, right now, if I drove around in a Honda Civic,
like an old car, people would think like,
well, he's got some cars somewhere else.
You know what I mean?
I don't get the points.
I always got a Rolls Royce like you said.
Like, well, you're different.
You need to come and moderate her.
Like just because I came to moderate,
I mean, I had to buy my Rolls Royce.
No one's just going to give you nothing.
People got to realize that that's a lot of problem.
People are like, now I've been blessed to see some nice things.
So I know what nice things feel like.
That's why a lot of my homeboys instead of giving them money,
I'll take them on a roll with me.
I'll take them to a show.
Sometimes people only go five blocks their whole life.
Yeah, it's crazy.
They know the corner store.
They know where they go to the hoop, the YMCA.
They know the street they got the clubs.
They know their school.
They know their neighborhood.
They go, they have this car wash.
They go the same five blocks at 10 blocks.
And then maybe one vacation, the Tallahassee or Miami
with their family.
I got homies, bro, in our thirties,
they've been on airplanes by airplane.
Same.
They were flying.
And I'm like, yeah, they're like,
I ain't ever been on a plane, bro.
I hop on a private plane.
They're like, nervous, you know what I mean?
I'm on a jet.
And I'm saying, they look, it's like, changed people's lives.
The smallest thing, given some of the little opportunity,
instead of just knocking them down, I feel it's big.
You know, then I do a lot of stuff for people,
and then I realize who's going to make it through who's not.
Some people got all the town in the world.
As soon as I pulled my plug on them, back to square one.
Because they can't do it without somebody telling me,
you can do it and doing it for them.
Yeah.
All you have to do is...
What's all about who you're surrounded with?
Thanks.
So I surrounded myself with some pretty well-known people,
some billionaires, a couple millionaires.
And nobody ever gave me a cent,
but they gave me a hell of opportunity.
And I took advantage of all the opportunity I could get
and it takes 10 years to be overnight success.
So I'll go, I'm 10 years in the game,
and people look at me like, man, you did it.
But everyone's success is different.
So what you might want to do with your life
might not be make money and do songs of Rick Ross
and No Donald Trump and drive nice cars.
And it might just be with peace of mind, which is cool.
You know what I mean?
Some people want to rap.
They'd be like, they would do anything
just to get a million views, right?
Or just to get a feature or even have a picture
with a big name artist.
Yeah.
Oh, man, I want to meet Kodak.
I got a song with Kodak.
It's cool I rap with Kodak, but it's not my daily thing.
That's how I was when I did the stuff with Ross.
I wanted to, that was my dream.
And then when I got done with it, I was like, what's next?
I talk about it here and there,
but that was like my pitch at one time.
People are like, that's all Rick Ross.
You know what I'm saying?
I got to do music, take me serious.
The Magalene doesn't care about a song Rick Ross.
They didn't care about that.
That's not my pitch.
The pitch is like, what are you changing?
What are you doing for the country?
So when a lot of these other people hit me up still
to do features that like, why are you charging for verses?
I'm a patriot.
Like, you may spend $250,000 like I did.
You know what I mean?
You're not invested.
You didn't take a career risk.
You see it working.
I never seen you at a Trump rally.
I ain't never seen you in the streets.
I never seen you out here with people doing
how you just want to sit on your camera
with a green screen to shoot music videos
and go viral of what we're doing.
I'm not rocking with that.
Get out there in your city.
I'm not going to a different city taking their route.
I don't do my own rallies here.
I took my truck and started saying,
everybody want to come, come.
I started getting thousands of people showing up.
So many people, they were nervous and had to delete me
because they're trying to say that it's a cult
because you can form a group of people.
That could go do something.
That could maybe do harm to people.
That's why we have to delete you pretty much.
So it's not so much your political views.
It's that you're telling
thousand people to show up somewhere
and you're demanding that you guys take the country back.
And it works.
Take the country back doesn't mean
I'm going to go run in the White House tomorrow.
It means we're taking the country back.
Oh, in the vice article, they said something about a song
that you did that you were saying like,
let's go to war or something.
What was that song?
It's a song I have now for my boy Enrique
who was locked up.
And it just said, Patriots, we ready for war.
Right.
But it's just like, tell mom, I'm coming home.
It's like any big song.
Like war could be anything.
We are at war.
We're not at war where we're going to go hurt somebody.
We're just fighting.
We're at war with each other.
Not so much at each other.
We're just at war fighting for our freedom, we feel.
Freedom of speech is gone.
It's like people could take anybody's words
and flip them into something else.
You know what I mean?
They can take it and run with it
how they want to run with it.
So they try to make a big thing out of it.
And I didn't really like that.
They asked me about it
because they wanted me to be like, yeah, it's wartime.
What's up?
Like, you know what I mean?
Which I want to do.
I'm ready for whatever.
Tell Big Trump I'm ready for war.
I'm ready for war.
They stole our election
and we're ready to take the next one back.
Not saying that I'm ready to go get a bunch of guns
and start a whole war.
But that's how they try to take like little things you do
and make it a...
Blow it out a portion.
Yeah.
Like, well, what about, you know,
six, nine, I'll shoot you in your face.
Right, right.
Or talk to him or be a young boy.
You know what I'm saying?
What about all these rappers
that are rapping and actually getting killed
in their own cities?
And then they're pussy because they don't got security.
What about Dolph?
Yeah, that's crazy.
That's a crazy thing.
See, Dolph, I got a lot of love for Dolph
because he's independent with it.
He was grinding like me, built it up from the bottom.
I've watched documentaries where they said
that he had people who might have investors
and this and that.
It doesn't matter if you have somebody.
Somebody wants to invest in you.
That's amazing.
You mean to tell me?
I got you out.
He made a song.
Did he make a song?
He was like, some people tried to kill him
and he made a whole song basically making fun of him
for not being able to kill him.
How the hell you missed a whole hundred shots?
But that's how he was up.
You know, you got to put that persona on
when you want to be that dude.
Right.
When I go to D.C., I'm not out there like,
oh man, I'm from the Internet.
Everyone's going to see me.
Someone's not going to like me.
Oh, there's BLM.
I better go.
I'm outside.
What's up?
You're going to kill me in broad daylight
and I'm going out like this.
That's how I'm going to go out.
You don't know when your time's coming.
You just got to live.
But all these other people that just have all these opinions
are not even there.
I don't want to hear it.
You're not there.
You're not seeing these people.
You don't know me personally to know my life story,
how much shit I got to go through,
how much free money I really get.
You know what I mean?
You think if I was getting free checks,
I'd be out here selling baseball caps to say
MAGA on them and my t-shirts and my CDs.
Think I'd give a shit.
If someone just said, here's millions of dollars, man.
Think I'd care about my country.
No, I'd be one street away at the beach chilling all day.
Not caring about nothing.
I built an empire.
I built a brand.
I got to stand for something.
I got people to look to me and say,
Bluh, what's next?
They can't go to Trump.
They might never meet Trump in their life,
but they're going to meet me at a rally.
Yeah.
So they look at me as like,
yo, Bluh's here and I got respect for Bluh.
So I got a lot of people dependent on me.
I can't stop.
Yeah, man.
I don't know.
I think if anything anyone's realized
over the last,
over since the time that Trump left and Biden's come in,
I think what it's done is sort of like shown how much
of a fucking mind virus the woke shit is.
You know, I think there's more.
And there's more independent people coming up.
You know, the mainstream media people don't trust it as much.
There's more independent people like us
that are coming up doing their own,
whatever it might be podcasts or like interview shows
or documentary series on YouTube or whatever it might be.
Amazingly podcasts have come up more than anything.
Crazy podcasts.
And everybody can, there's no gatekeepers.
You can just, you can have a voice,
talk about whatever the fuck you want.
For now.
For now.
Yeah.
For now.
Because there was no gatekeepers or rap at one time.
You know.
When?
In the very beginning, I think there was a gatekeeper
with rap, like being independent.
The labels.
But I don't have a label.
I'm billboard and going on charts and my albums are selling.
Yeah.
But in the beginning, early there was labels like.
There was labels, but I'm saying in the fucking 80s and 70s.
Yeah, I'm just trying to say, well, back then it was like
they had 20 artists.
They gave you 20 artists.
Got DMX.
We got Jagged Edge for R&B.
And these people you're going to listen to.
We got Cameron, Divset.
That was law.
Whatever they get, no limit.
Whatever they put in front of you was law.
You had to play it.
Want to say some part gave you 10 songs.
That's the 10 songs you're going to put out on CD and bump.
Right.
Now, like you're trying to say.
Now you can listen to whatever you want.
So I think podcasts has grown.
I just feel like at one time they're going to make it so like,
oh, you can't talk about this anymore.
This can't be on Apple.
Oh, they're already doing that.
I feel like they're going to start monitoring and be a little bit
of a gatekeeper of what they're doing.
I think this is the best thing ever.
If you have a podcast talking about how much you love or hate Trump
or politics or me, at least you're doing something with your life.
I'm all for you.
Right.
I don't care.
Everybody can have their own opinion.
But I feel like when I have my own opinions, a big problem.
Yeah, like I said, I think the biggest thing that's getting exposed
and sort of like getting hung out to dry is the woke shit.
I don't know.
Maybe that is just me and my bubble.
But I think across the board, I think people on the left
are starting to realize how much of a fucking mind virus that was.
Thousand percent.
I got people that hit me up now and they might blow where you been.
I'm like, my IG got deleted.
And they're like, damn, yeah.
Like, what?
I'm like, yeah, they banned me from social media.
They're like, man, they went too far with that, man.
Feel me?
That's exactly what they say.
They went too far banning.
You should have been able to talk how you want to talk.
Have you heard of the thing called?
Have you heard of horseshoe theory?
No.
So there's this podcast.
I heard this girl on this podcast called the IDG podcast.
It's fucking great.
And she brings up this thing called horseshoe theory.
And basically it's the story of the bootlegger and the Baptist.
Or I think it's the Baptist and the bootlegger.
What are the Baptist and the bootlegger have in common?
They both want alcohol to be illegal.
The Baptist wants it to be illegal for moral and religious reasons.
The bootlegger wants it to be illegal so he can make money selling it.
Right.
So the KKK and woke leftists.
There's the KKK and the woke.
They both want segregation.
There was this story of a school in Colorado.
They had a playground where they pick a certain time of day every week for children of color to play.
I swear to God, it's a real story.
You could probably find it.
Find it, Austin.
Find the school.
Man, I got to find whoever giving you your TV show.
You're gonna put me on three different shows to check out.
Bro, I'm still watching Ozark.
There's a legit school in Colorado who has a time of day every week for children of color to play
only.
That's terrible.
It's fucking segregation.
So it's a horseshoe theory.
That's what the KKK wants.
That's terrible.
How fucking crazy is that?
That's terrible.
Anyways, that's horseshoe theory and it fucking blew my mind when I-
But I like the idea.
You know, they want to be able to sell the alcohol.
They want it for moral reasons.
Yeah.
But that's crazy to me.
Yeah.
Completely opposite ends of the spectrum.
They come to the same fucking conclusion.
Well, so this is...
Colorado Elementary School accused of segregation over playground for families of color.
And this is legit.
Yeah, it's legit.
Scroll up.
Austin, what's the name of this?
The parents?
The parents aren't throwing a fit about this?
Okay, this is Daily Mail.
Scroll down.
Denver Colorado Elementary School has sparked outrage with segregated play time for families of color at its playground.
The Centennial Elementary School organized the equity event for families of color to get
gather and play on December 8th.
But critics have, yeah.
But it's a real fucking thing.
I don't know if they're still doing it or not.
Still doing it or not.
It seems like they are.
This is the new message.
Somebody had the idea to do this.
When was this from?
2021?
2021, yeah.
Maybe not.
But how fucking wild is that?
That's what we-
Yeah, but we're still having problems no matter what with everything.
And nothing's ever going to be all the way done, right?
But that's just disgusting that we still have people that think like that.
Yeah.
You know, that's what people don't think.
I try to tell people, MAGA has no color.
Like I told you when I came in here, they're all like, oh, they're going to blow their white supremacists.
All my friends are black and they're transporters.
And if they're kind of the white boys that I'm with, they're still urban white boys like myself.
They don't show that on these messages.
You know, vicing that.
I was with two black people for my vicing interview.
They didn't put them in there.
Yeah, man.
They're all, they're trying to-
I'm saying, they were there with me at the photo shoot.
They didn't talk about us blow in two of his friends, African-American friends.
They talked about how much they said you drank gallons of Dr. Pepper every day.
Yeah, no.
I told them I was on it.
Really?
In the Mountain Dew.
He said, blow who drinks gallons of Coke and Dr. Pepper every day and eat Hooters.
Yeah, I go to Hooters every day.
But they said I was making a bet with my friend if I had a soda, I got to pay $1,000.
But I told them I don't drink it because they were like, let's get a drink
and I could, the lady, the reporter, she smoked.
So she was like, you got any weed?
No, I'm like, I'll smoke.
And they were like, you know, you don't do drugs.
They came for three days and they left two days early because I wasn't entertaining enough.
Yeah.
Then they wanted to come to my house and they were mad at it.
Let them come to my house in the long run.
You didn't let them come to your house?
No, but should I let them come?
Should I go to their house?
The reason so was Easter.
And I forgot it was Easter and I had my whole family there.
Oh, really?
So I was like, my family's at Easter.
I'll need you to come to my house.
What do you need to come to my house for?
Yeah.
You're already writing a hit smash piece on me.
Right.
I took you to the studio, took you to my cars.
They said they want to see some cars.
I'll pull six, seven cars up, tell them where you want me to meet you.
You do a vlog.
Why you want to come in my house for?
What are you going to put in my house and leave there?
Yeah.
You don't need to come to my house.
I'll know you like that.
Yeah.
But I was going to let them come, but they didn't understand.
They were pissed about that.
Were they really?
Yeah, they were pissed about it.
But I had my sister who came in town, her husband, my nephews, my mom.
I had about 10 people in town.
I forgot it was Easter Sunday because I'm, you know,
you guys work like me.
You're not thinking like, oh, I got a holiday coming up.
You're just working.
And everybody's like, yo, it's a holiday.
You're like, oh, okay.
So I'll be there.
And there was an issue when they were like,
they were kind of, I think, pissed off about it.
But why you need to come to my house?
You want to see why I take a shit?
Maybe they wanted a fucking...
Bug it?
Party going to hang out in the pool or something.
I wanted to bug it.
The bug.
Oh, to bug your house.
Who knows what they wanted to do?
Yeah.
Well, bro, thanks for doing this, man.
I sweep my Rolls Royce after they got out of here bugged.
Did you really?
It's a little roll.
They say, run or sweep his joint for me one time.
Dude, it's funny.
If you read the comments on any Vice video now,
it's just like they fucking any, any post Vice does,
especially on Instagram, just read the fucking comments.
They just, it's shit on them.
So I enjoy it.
I enjoyed the, you know, people like, you know,
even someone like, you know, me and you might have every
same view, but we could still be cool.
See each other four years later and still be like, you know,
like not saying you like Trump or not,
but you might not be a diehard Trump or whatever.
But you could still be like, I like blow.
He can come on my podcast and chop it up with me
and have a, you know, discussion about stuff.
That's, you know, people don't do that these days.
So I appreciate you guys.
I appreciate the listeners.
Tell everyone watching or listening where they can find your
shit if they don't already know.
Oh, you too.
4g auto blow, f, o, r, g, i, a, t, o blow.
And then Instagram is mayor blow and 4g auto blow USA
for some merch and make sure you follow these boys
are doing a good job.
I mean, I know y'all are huge, but I remember back
when you were working with Ben and all these people
y'all were doing our thing.
And it's just great to see you guys like get out of that
situation, whatever, and then still keep your stuff.
Cause I feel like when people start,
they have like a key factor in what they're building off.
Yeah, for sure.
That's what y'all, you got to find somebody.
That's why some people come to me.
It's like he's entertaining, whatever.
So I thought it was super cool when y'all started doing
your own thing and look where it's built, man.
That's like y'all doing y'all the next thing up.
I feel thanks, man.
I really appreciate that.
Appreciate it.
Appreciate y'all.
All right.
Goodbye, everybody.
Peace.
