Hello, world. On this episode of the podcast, we talk to ex-Narco drug lord. His name is Jorge Valdes,
and his story is absolutely mind-bending. He was born in Havana, Cuba in 1956, and by the age
of 10, his family boarded one of the last freedom flights from Cuba to Miami. While working as an
accountant in his early 20s, his first client was La Huerta del Sol, a small grocery store which turned
out to be a front for a group of international drug dealers. In 1977, he took over the entire
organization as the head of U.S. operations, and that group went on to be called the Medellin Drug
Cartel. We cover all the details on this podcast from crashing his plane loaded with over 200
kilos of coke and Panama to actually buying presidents like he literally bought the president
of Costa Rica. He talks about doing business with Pablo Escobar and eventually forfeiting over
$60 million to the U.S. government. So, if that long-winded intro doesn't wet your whistle,
folks, I don't know what will. This was a fascinating podcast, and I hope you enjoy.
Cool. Well, thanks for coming on, Mr. Valdes. Yeah, my pleasure. You pulled up into Rolls-Royce. I
wasn't expecting that. How do you like that thing? What is that, a ghost? Yes, a ghost. Is it a ghost?
I didn't expect you to be back up to that level yet. When I read your book, I thought you kind of
had to hit rock bottom at the end of everything. Well, I did. I hit rock bottom. I ended up
forfeiting over $60 million to the government. I went to prison again for, really, the bottom line
was that they just wanted my money. I had been retired for four years, and they just
consented that I lived in this multi-million dollar ranch and had jets and million dollar cars.
So did you keep some of the Rolls-Royce's after? Did you have them hidden somewhere?
No. What did you do? Well, I'll get to it if you understand. So what ended up being is that
at the end, when I get arrested, and I'm like, what the hell did I get arrested for? I haven't
done crap. When I retired, there was no investigation. And my attorney said, there wasn't
the money. And it was a perfect timing for us, and it was a perfect place. Mobile, Alabama,
never been there in my life. But it was a period where the government was ceasing assets,
and the more they seized, the more credit that office got. So if they had taken my
seizure in New York, California, Miami, it would have been a large seizure, but it wouldn't have
been as significant as Mobile, Alabama. You know, all of that I gave them was equal to probably
what they had ever confiscated in their entire lifetime. So they're like, lots of money in a
little time, little money, lots of time. And I'm like, do you know how much I got? And they're like,
no, but we know who does. So the US Attorney walks to the back of the office, opens a door,
and here comes four federal agents, DEA, CIA, I mean DEA, customs, FBI, and IRS.
And they're like, they knew how much toilet paper I bought. For four years,
they had a task force just literally assigned to me. And they knew every part. I tell you,
you know how long it takes to go from being a multimillionaire at a young age to having zero
about four and a half minutes of signature. And but you know what, I was happy. I was fine with it.
I had, you know, I had become a Christian in July. I had a man preach to me for four years,
which is part of my story, three years. And then I was miserable and I couldn't understand why I
had all the power in the world. I had all the money. I went out with the most beautiful women
in America, you know, had three jets, you know, had a million dollar house in Vale, two million
dollar house in Fort Myers Beach, you know, $20 million ranch. I lived a heck of a life and I
was young, young kid literally. And but I was so miserable and I couldn't understand why. And so
when I walked away from from the business, and I'll get we'll get to that later, when I walked away
from the business, number one, I thought I was gonna get killed within a couple weeks, right?
Because we really didn't have a very good retirement program in the cartel. Okay. And that's
another thing I want to tell you. There was no Medellin cartel, right? So we, a lot of people
keep talking about Medellin cartel and there was no such thing. That's a lie. That was actually,
and I'm glad that recently one of your show brothers has come out and said the same thing.
What do you, what do you mean when you say there was no there was no Medellin cartel? What does
that mean? Like, you know, the Sinaloa cartel El Chapo, that's a cartel, right? It's a night
date organization, one organization controls everything. What happened during this, when I
got started in 76, there was one organization, right? Which I joined when I was 20 years old.
And that was it. That was who it was bringing 85% of all the cocaine to the US, right? It was 1976.
We were not even on the DA radar. From that organization, 76 to the 80s, I went to prison
in 79. In 80, different factors, people left that organization and started their own group,
right? So, and then you had other people, come on, like you have Pablo Escobar come up in 81.
Right. You had, you know, your show brothers, come on, you know, you had Gacha, come on. And
three or four other ones, I mean, people that were much, much richer than Pablo Escobar.
Pablo Escobar did not have the wealth that the Americans talk about or even,
when people claim a lot of people had, so bullshit, you know, like recently I heard.
Did you know him personally? Yeah, I know him very well. Recently, I even put a contact on
my life. So, but recently I heard somebody else said that, you know, the Falcons were worth billions
of dollars. Right. A lot. Yeah, we were talking before we started that, the guy I had on here
before knew really Falcons. It was a lie. Okay. I grew up with them. So, I mean, I'll tell you,
they didn't have money. They didn't make a lot of money. They didn't have Pablo. But really,
the people that had the most amount of money, no one ever knows about them. Period. Because the
problem was, what Pablo was, was the most violent. And because he became very, very violent and didn't
give a damn about whose life he took, didn't care if kids died, if white, you know, whoever,
whoever got on his way, he didn't care. He didn't care if he blew up a whole
Supreme Court building, you know, the Justice Department president, he didn't give a,
he didn't give a damn. So, because he did that, he became very, very known, right, and very notorious.
So, the DEA is looking now at Medellin, Colombia. And they're saying like, well, there's the Pablo
Escobar group. They'll show us they work with Pablo very little. You know, there's Gacha. You know,
there's a guy, Frank Jimenez, which had more money than most of them. A lot of people don't even know
his name. And so, instead of saying, okay, we're going to go out to Pablo, then we're going to go
out to this guy, this guy, they just said, we just bunch them all together. Because of the Medellin drug
cartel. And that's how the name came about. Okay. But every organization had its own pilots,
its own supplies, its own accountants, lawyers, its own assassins. So, you know,
and they are not to say they didn't do things together. Okay, because I did with three or
four of them at the same time in each load. But not like you have El Chapo and you said,
there's the Sinaloa cartel. Right. And that's one group. There's one head. And that's it, you know.
And that's how that was during that period of time. So, that's very interesting. So,
when I walked away, you know, the thing that all of them together, because the problem was I worked
with all of them together. And I even worked with the Cali cartel afterwards. And they were
when the Cali cartel was just beginning, when there were no rivals, the rivals only became
and it really wasn't the Medellin drug cartel against the Cali cartel. It was the Cali cartel.
And that was a cartel, one group against Pablo Escobar. Right. Because what ended up happening
is that Pablo would make each group give money to fight the war that he was fighting for extradition.
And it was something that was going to benefit all of them, right? Because Colombia was fighting
that you can extradite us to the United States. You can extradite a citizen of a country when
you're extraditing them for a crime that is not a crime in their country. So the United States,
how can, what can they charge Pablo, any of them? What, what was I charged two times? Conspiracy.
Right. Doesn't mean crap. You and I plan a trip, right? You make a phone call to find a pilot.
Done. That's it. It doesn't matter if we ever did or not. We're guilty. We can be given, when I went,
during my time, the max was 15 years. Now you're given a life center. So Pablo said, hey, like
extradite me to India because I killed chick, because I killed cows in Colombia, you know?
So that's what it was fighting. And all of them were fighting, were benefiting from the fact.
And at the same time, they were pretty happy that Pablo was getting, taking all the heat, you know?
So that's how that went about. Well, one of the things they could not understand is the unknown,
right? So why is George Valdez walking away, making over a million dollars a month? He hasn't
seen cocaine in three years since he got out of prison. You know, he's living a life that people
dream of. He's got power. He's got everything. Why would he walk away? And when they can't figure
that out, well, the best thing to do is just take that, take that X out of the equation.
But I didn't care. And because I got to a point in my life that I was miserable. And recently,
there's going to be a big, big six series series coming out, I think November,
on a major stream service. And they asked me a question that no one ever asked me.
And it was really interesting because I never even thought about it. And the question was to
follow you. How was it so easy for you to walk away? To one day, he said, I had enough.
I don't need the money. I don't want none to do with this and leave Miami, move to my farm.
And yet, Salma Gluta, El Chapo, about all these people that had built millions and millions of
dollars, probably much more than I had when I walked away, because I spent five years in prison,
they can't. They all got jets, they all got fake passports, you know, Sal's on the run knowing
they're going to bury him for eternity if they catch him. And he's, who is Salma Gluta? Okay.
And where's his hiding? He's hiding at, you know, I think it was either the Rich Carleton,
Penn House in Palm Beach. So, you know, I mean, right down underneath the nose. And I
answered the question very easy. It was easy for me to walk away because I didn't consider myself
a drug dealer. I was a businessman. Before I got involved in drugs, I had a lot of businesses,
legitimate. I mean, I was in the drug business three years before I got arrested. And my parents
had no clue. Why? Because I flew all over the world. You know, I own a construction company,
you know, I own cattle farms, I own a lot of different businesses. So, for me, cooking was
just another business that I ran. When I realized when I came out of prison, when I went, well,
first of all, when I get started, it was in violent. We were all businessmen. My godfather,
who I believe started, probably would be the, probably the lead person that would have been
the original, if you want to say cartel head. He would tell me, if you got to carry a gun to
do business with someone, you have no business doing being with that person. So, we didn't,
you know, we didn't carry a gun. We didn't do anything. We're business people. I mean,
he owned a construction company. He owned the largest coal mines in Colombia, the largest emerald
mines. I mean, very well airlines, very wealthy people. So, when I realized I come out of prison,
I go in in 79, I come out in 85. And I realized it wasn't the world that it was. You know,
my clients, 80% of our, the coke that we're bringing in was going to California. My client was
80%. Yeah. My clients were the high society of America. They were the movie stars. They were
the musicians, the real famous names everybody knows. So, I come out and all of a sudden there's
a thing called crack, which I didn't agree with. Number two, there's people killing each other.
And I was still, I went back for two more years. And then I realized that this is just not me.
So, for me then, it's just like if you have a company that manufactures this water and doesn't
sell or you don't like that water anymore, you stop, you shift and you go to another business,
right? Yeah. So, for me, it was easy. I went back to building my orange groves. You know,
I was the number one horse breeder in America. I had the best stud in the world. And I could do
that transition, no problem at all. Difficult to give up the power. The money, I have more money
than I could ever spend the rest of my life. I walked away when I was 31 years old and I had
everything, but they can't. Why? Because their identity is a drug dealer. So, you take like,
like you see ball players today. Why can't they just go out in the height of their career? Why
they get traded and they still want to play because they don't know nothing else but to be a ball
player. You know, like I told John Smalls one time and I said to him, I said, what are you?
He said, a ball player. I said, really? I said, John, what happens the day you control 100 mile
hour fastball? I said, to me, you are a child of God giving a tremendous gift to make millions
playing a game, right? So, that's why you see all these people that they can't, you know. And to a
certain extent, I almost think that it becomes a game for them that the payoff is getting caught.
You know, and you see it over and over again with all of them. Because at the end of the day,
how much money can you spend? How many cars can you drive? How many mansions can you have? You
know, when you got about a millions of dollars, you can live the rest of your life super comfortably.
I mean, you can go to strip joints and blow $100,000 a month. But, you know, that's, and that's,
and that was the thing. So, I walked away and when I walked away and originally I thought my life
would be in danger, I hired this guy to teach me karate because I've done karate for a lot of years.
And the first day he came, he said, I'm going to teach you about the sword, man. And I was so
excited, right? I mean, I had, I love weapons and I'm like, man, we never waste time throwing kicks
and punches. I've done that. But he turns around and shows me a Bible. And I was so pissed because I
was a hardcore atheist. I'm like, dude, first of all, I'm paying you a lot of money. I don't believe
in that book, what the book talks about. So, tomorrow you leave that bullshit sword home and
bring the real sword. And here's a guy with a seven degree black belt and got up in my face.
First person that had the guts to get up in my face and he's like, young man, what I got to give
you, you got no money to pay. I said to myself, man, this guy's seven degree black belt. I reached
behind my back. I didn't have a gun. I said, this guy's going to introduce Jesus into me and I'm
going to pay for it. I said, dude, don't get excited. While the steam room is heating up,
waste your time, you know, and for three years. And people say, what did he say that made you
change your life? And I said, really nothing because for two hours of getting my ass whooped,
I was just getting, waiting for him to, while he was reading the Bible to me,
I was just getting over the ass whooping, giving me for two hours. So, but it was everything he
did. See, he lived in what I call a very crappy world, right? I mean, I lived in this 10,000
square foot house, 15,000. My guest house was 5,000 square feet. His house was 1200 square feet.
You know, he drove a whole beat up car and milled out with the cars. And then he's telling me how
madly in love he is with this woman that he's been married to for 25 years. So I'm like 25 years.
She was reading her 40s. Man, how can be, I mean, I'm surrounded by supermodels and I hate them.
And he's in love with this. I'm like, man, this, this lady's got to be like, I mean, some hot
shit. I gotta go check her out. And when I saw her, I thought the guy was sick. And I'm like,
it's impossible. And the thing about now, I think she's gorgeous and she's a great person. I love
them to that. But in my world, you know, there was identifiers that gave value to your life.
He had none of them. So why would he be happy? I'm miserable. You know, and I kept asking him,
and he never invited me to church or anything like that. And he gave me a really neat answer,
which is part of what I do today. And his answer was, you know, I have an intimate
relationship with Jesus. And I'm like, what? I said, first of all, you know, you don't know
like I exist. How can you have an intimate relationship with someone? I'm surrounded by
people that die for me and I don't have intimate relationship with them.
You don't have time for ancient myths, right? Yeah. I mean, dude, how do you know he exists?
He said, well, I know Eric's sister and I can't see it. So I'm like, and that's all he would say.
And really what I wanted him to say to me was like, oh, you know, I want him to battle me
because I could fight that I could do, but I couldn't fight someone they want to fight back.
And, and for three years, he didn't waver, didn't waver. And I never forget it was July 1st, 1990.
About 1030 in the morning, my divorce was final from my ex-wife. And I saw her dragging away my
little girl, which was everything in my life. The reason, the main reason why I finally walked away
from this world. And I went to, and I saw her crying. I went to my room, I got on my knees,
and I'm like, I can remember that till today. I said, first and foremost, Jesus, I don't believe
you're real. That's how I want to be. I want to be honest. I'm honest, you know. Number two,
if you're real, you probably look at me and say, you're so bad, you stay down there and I'll stay
up here. Number three, but if you are the reason the man is happy and you change his life, change
mine, I'll die for you. You know, and Christian say that when someone converts those angels and
even I'm like, man, Cuban, they must not be able to play to the Cubans crying here. Shit, you know.
Yeah. I'm like, and actually in three months, my life was from bad to horrifically worse. I
get arrested. I was at a horse show and no clue why I was arrested. When they bring me in on this
conspiracy, my attorney says, don't worry, you're going to go home. The only pilot, the only person
testifying against you is a pilot and he died. He killed himself in using a DEA airplane to smuggle
in the fog in Alabama. And he said, they don't have anything against you. It was a conspiracy,
160 people and they had all been indicted and their head guy had gotten life and he I knew
and he had transported for me years ago way past the statute of limitation, which is five years.
But he's like, just plead innocent and we're going to go home. And I looked at him and I'm like,
Alan, I've been in my attorney forever. One of the top drug lawyers in the world. I said, Alan,
here's the deal, man. Here you are, a good Jew that I know and love. Tell me I'm going home.
You know, I given my life to this other Jew that ain't said nothing to me yet.
But I know one thing in my life is going to change. I got to change. I can't continue to
fight this people the rest of my life. You know, I just and I can't continue to lie.
He said, if you do that, they're going to give you a life sentence. I was like sentence for what?
And then he tells me about the indictment. I said, but Alan, I walked away eight months before the
the minimum mandatory laws were enacted. You know, was when I when I walked away from the cartel,
the most they could give me was 15 years like they did the first time conspiracy,
right? 15 years. But now that law had changed and that 15 years became a life sentence for three
life sentence. A life sentence conspiracy to import that you didn't import conspiracy to possess what
you were going to import conspiracy to distribute what you were going to possess that you were going
to import. That's the law of the land. Wow. So I mean, who can win? That's crazy. So I'm like,
I'm going to put it back. I said, I said, if I get a life sentence, I don't give a shit. I said,
I'm dead anyway. If I die in the streets, but my life, it got changed. My life doesn't change. I
couldn't care. I don't care. I don't care about living anymore. And I go in front of the prosecutor.
And while my attorney argues, look, he's going to confess to dealing. But really what the motion
should give him is violation parole, because I went back while I was in parole, right? I got 15
years the first time. The motion could do five if you never had a prior offense. And then I had
10 years on the parole. So here I am going to confess that I violated the parole, right? No
wiretaps, not a single freaking picture, not a grain of cocaine, nothing in both trials, nothing.
And not a compromised picture with anybody. Right. I mean, I took care of myself. And
I go in front of the prosecutor, and he looked. He said, look, just give him the 10. I mean,
he's confessing to it. You know, he walked away from this four years ago. You really don't have a
case. And he's willing to give you everything he has that you can't take because that had the
statute of limitations of that had run away long ago. And he's doing all this voluntarily.
The prosecutor said, well, we'll recommend it was up to the judge and walk through the courtroom.
The judge is like, Mr. Valdez, my intention is to sentence you to a life sentence. Young
man, you're going to die in a federal prison. And I look down and say, your honor, you can only
give me what God wants to give me. And the truth of the matter is if my life doesn't change,
I don't give a damn where I die. Prison don't scare me. So, you know, a year went by and I
ended up getting, I was given the 10 years because my attorneys were able to argue and
the prosecutor agreed that I had cooperated extensively by giving him all of my assets.
Initially, they gave you life? No, no, no. That's when I went to because you were in front of the
judge to plead, right? It was called your arraignment and you plead guilty and not guilty. So, I went
in there to plead guilty. When I go in there to plead guilty, the judge or anyone does,
the judge tells you what you are exposed to, what you can get. But, you know, they knew that it
wasn't that I got caught and I'm sorry. The good thing I didn't have, I knew that I could,
one of the things that would have helped me back from doing that was if I had to testify against
anybody because you hear about my first when I got arrested in Panama, I was tortured for 28 days.
Yeah, I want to go, I want to go back to that. So, but I walked out of, I went back to prison,
I said, I got a choice. I can either sleep 12 hours, it may say you sleep 12 hours,
you sleep half of your sentence away or I can do something about my life. So, I made myself
believe which is all your mindset, right? Your whole life is your mindset. How you look at the
world, it doesn't matter that this is water, what matters is how is my mind looking at that water?
Does it look at, I can make a dollar off of it or does it look at like, wow, I'm dying of thirst,
it can satisfy me or man, maybe that water has been in heat and they say plastic, it got cancer,
it's all in your mind, right? So, how you look at it? So, I said, I'm going to make believe I'm in
a monastery and I began to study. I got another bachelor's degree. I taught myself Greek. I started
half of my master's when I was released from prison. I went back to Wheaton College in Illinois
and I finished my master's. Then I went to Loyola University, got a PhD. When I graduated, I was one
of five Hispanics in the whole country with a PhD in New Testament and Ethics and I was named
a Hispanic doctoral student in America by the Pew Foundation, two years in a row and then I was
recruited by every university and then I looked at my child in $90,000 and I got six kids. How do
I educate them? Because for Cubans education is everything, right? So, I, and then my dad had died
and my children, that little girl and her two other siblings were living in Georgia and I'm in
Illinois and I'm getting this job in California and I'm like, I thought my wife, I'm going to
move to Georgia and I'm going to be a full-time dad to those kids and she's like, what are you
going to do? I mean, your dream is to teach. I said, yeah. I said, that's been my dream for the last
seven years. I said, but my kids don't care about my dream. How are they going to remember me? My dad
does send the check every month and had a good summer. I want to be there and I did and I moved.
They know what to do and I started a little cleaning company in the basement of my house.
Yeah. Taking out water damage and fire damage and cleaning toilets and wrote my book. It was a best
seller at that time and so I was out there preaching and at the same time I was out there
cleaning carpet and then in 10 years I built it into a multi-million dollar national international
company. The cleaning business? Yeah. Wow. And we had, we did jobs in London, we did jobs in Grand
Cayman all over the United States and then my customers were governments and at the end
I'm sitting there on the last job and I'm in Louisiana and we had just built the first Catholic
Catholic Church inside any United States prison at Angola, a place that no one, a prison called
Angola in Louisiana. You were building churches inside of one prison? I built one. Yeah. This was
when we built our company we made a decision, me and two other partners, my brother and my other
partner, that we give 10% off the top to our foundation to impact other people's life because
I determined that what makes a great company is not great technology, great employees, great
customer, it's a company that gives back and so we created a foundation that I ran and I still run
today and one of the things the foundation did is build this church because it's a prison that
there was two, three evangelical chapels but there was no Catholic chapel in Louisiana or a
Catholic state and those men are never going to go home. 6,500 men mostly sent to life or death
and in Louisiana life means you die there, three cemeteries, you know is where they did the movie
Dead Man Walking. So we had just finished a huge job, three-year job and I sat there,
you know I lived in a motor home for those three years. I had a big motor home which was my office
because our job, since we were governed, we had to go and park like right there, you know there's no,
be a hurricane, national fire, whatever the catastrophe could be and I'm sitting there
and I just daunted myself, you know I got two kids left, two young kids left and my other four
literally don't know me, right? My oldest son by the time he was 13 I had been in jail 10 years
and yeah we're very close, all of our very close, I've educated all of them and I told my wife
I'm gonna quit and she's like you gonna what? I said yeah we'll stop, we'll retire 56 and she's like
man you worked your life to get to this point and we were making millions, you know we had jets
again, I had a 90-foot yacht and I said look I don't need a jet, I don't need the yacht and I got
enough money to live very comfortably the rest of my life and I don't need no more zeros
and I quit and I went to run the foundation in Mexico, we took my kids and we moved to
Casa del Mexico for five years and I wanted my kids to learn a different culture, I wanted
them to see my wife and I grew up poor and also we were not poor, we're very wealthy and we're
living in a mansion and we had fancy vacation and private jets and my kids going to the best
school and I looked at her and I like even though we were very careful and we never gave our kids
more than $100 every Christmas and they said you take that and you get three gifts, Jesus got three
you get three, you're no better than Jesus and they all were great with that but I said Jesus
got three gifts, that's all you get on Christmas. So I thought I need to show them what the real
world is and in the world we live now it's not real, this is not real and this is a fantasy world
and said let's go to Casa del Mexico for one year so we bought a house over there, an apartment on
the ocean and we stayed five and we created a foundation, through the foundation we created a
program, the kids had a lot of problems with obesity and drugs and my wife and I were doing
Ironman and we created a program through Ironman called I Say No to Drugs Obesity and Violence
so what we did is we would take these kids, started with my daughter, actually my son,
they used to do iron kids so they're going to track and then I started using gang techniques
like with the gangs, they loved colors right so a t-shirt with a color so I gave them a white
t-shirt, I said everybody starts running, we have a coach and here's how you're going to advance in
this program, I don't give a damn how fast you are in life that's not going to get you anywhere,
what's going to get you somewhere in life is that you are a good human being and that you've got
good morals and you've got good work ethics so we're going to create a point chart and you're
going to get points for number one showing on time and that was the biggest challenge
of the whole program in Mexico, getting kids to show up in time and number two if you bring another
kid you get a program, if you're overweight then we have a nutritionist and we put you on a program
and as you lose weight we go ahead and you get points, you know how you treat teachers, how you
treat your mother and as you get points then we give them a green jersey and we taught them how to
swim and then they get more and more points and we give them a red jersey and now they can ride a
bike and we give them a bike so now that we're doing triathlon we started with two kids, my daughter
and my son and a couple kids from school and by the time we left we had 300 kids that had lost
amazing amount of weight that were on a Friday night, I have pictures on my Facebook, these kids
on a Friday night working their butts off at dark I'm saying like what kid in the world Friday night
is out here sweating on the track trying to become better you know and it worked and it was and it
was amazing and then my wife wanted us to come back to the States because she wanted the kids to
go to high school in the United States and we came back five years ago and I was happily retired
I was like I walked my dog in the morning I exercised for an hour and a half and by 11 o'clock
I was done for the day man life was good that's great and then through a series of event it's
someone like God called me hey I did a big event in Houston and and this I didn't realize it was for
big CEOs Catholic CEOs and this guy asked me like what are you doing I said well I'm retired
he's like really and what do you do I said well I get up at five o'clock every day of my life I
feed the kids I walk the dog and I exercise for an hour and a half and I'm done and he's like
why are you so selfish good for you man it's a great life I said why are you so selfish and I'm like
you don't know me why you call me selfish I said look you got so much to offer the world
why do you want to do this and and I already done that right I wrote the first book and when I
wrote the first book I started talking all over the country I was doing some of the largest events
in America in 98 and then I saw things I started doing a lot of religious events to religious
and so things that I didn't see in my world and it really just jaded me what do you mean well you
know I saw people be not what they were supposed to be I saw a big televangelist one day in a studio
where I was hosting a program someone asked him for uh water he asked for water and a guy brings
him a glass and he just slapped off his hands says you know better than to give me water in a glass
I take Perrier and I'm like man I would have kicked your ass so bad and and and just different
things you know different things that that is and the division among them you know and and the
hatred and you know and it's like look I don't care if people are Baptist if people like I tell
right now look you know my mission I don't care if you're Baptist Muslim if you worship dogs if
you worship cats I don't care if you're gay straight quadruple whatever you want to be
I'm not going to tell you what to be that's up to you all I want to share with you is how the love
of a Jewish company to change my life and if the shoe fits wear it man if not buy another pair of shoes
yeah you know what's fascinating and that's and to impact people's lives to impact kids' lives so
that hopefully they don't go through what George Valdez went through and to send books to prisoners
so they can find why why is the world in despair that we're at because there's no hope man yeah you've
clearly experienced a lot in your life and I think it's very good that you're sharing it
um I kind of want to skip back real quick to the beginning
some time we just told the last half of it sort of after you got out but I found it really
interesting in your story how you talk about at the moment you got on the plane from Cuba to go
to Miami you were in an emotional coma because you were so young you didn't know what was going on
you were feeling pain for the first time in your life and you sort of didn't know what to do you
didn't know whether you should cry whether you should be confident you didn't know what to do you
just kind of went to the plane and emotionless you know and it was I told people there was three
cataclysmic events in my life that was number one and first of all my friends were very wealthy so
we got everything so communism did not affect us at all what I thought as a 10 year old kid
I had a bicycle I had all the toys I wanted we had television in our house we had a chauffeur
we went to the beach after school so life was good for me so all of a sudden I'm waking up
at five o'clock in the morning and my mother says get dressed and I'm like where we going
just to Miami so I went to get to pack a little suitcase of toys and she said no no
chose to close on your back and I was very confused I had no idea what was going on
and my mother was very religious it was a period when we would go to school and Fidel
would teach us about communism right you're a 10 year old kid you're impressionable about everything
right and but we would come home and my mother said that's all bullshit god god god god that was
everything for her right so her whole thing is my kids are not going to grow up in a communist
country like they cannot worship god freely so explain to someone who doesn't understand the
history of communists communism and Cuba and Fidel Castro's regime explain why they were so
against religion and christianity and all that you know if you read some of Fidel's books which I
was able to read when I went to Cuba and it was really interesting because you know he was raised
by priests right Fidel went to the best Jesuit schools in Cuba communist belief
well let's go back if if you read the writings of Karl Marx and Max Hengel right the communist
manifesto uh oh it's a perfect world right everybody's the same everybody makes the same
nobody abuses anybody you know there's no class distinction right and so Fidel comes along and
I tell people I don't think that Fidel was in reality wanted to be a communist because I think
Fidel came to the United States looking for help and they didn't they turned his back so there was
two superpower he was smart enough to realize that hey I go with one or the other or maybe wiped out
but the thing about it is that in in the communist ideology they teach you that
man is the center that there is no god right that god and religion is an opiate it's a drug
used by institutions to control people so the first thing that they do in school or little was
start teaching us through a program called the pioneers like the Boy Scouts and they would teach
you all this right and Fidel the supreme leader is the best and all that stuff I mean to me was
all good you're 10 years old what do you know right exactly but I come home and my mother like
my as a matter of fact if it was up to my dad he would have never said nothing because my dad was
very rich life was good for him and he wasn't going to rock any boats but not my mom and my mom
was five feet I tell me my mom would five five Osama bin Laden would have had nothing on her
because she was a terrorist and she's like no and I'm taking my kids out of here and we're going
to Miami now think about that think about her conviction to abandon a life of wealth to come
to United States with nothing 40 years of age three little kids 10 9 and 5 but at the airport
what happens is so as I'm going to the to the airport with them I'm in sort of a day's right
in a day's because confused what's going on why maybe we're just going for a weekend you know I
have no idea about anything maybe we don't need to pack and think of we're just gonna go and come back
because then you know they didn't tell me much all they said is just packed we're going to Miami
and so we're waiting to board the airplane and I see my we're the last people Valdez of course
so I see my mom crying and my dad is I'm not going and I was like so my mom comes up to me and grabs
my hand and grabs my brother and sister and says George you go to Miami I'll see you one day they
made a mistake and they said she couldn't come and my dad of course didn't want to come all
long anyway so he's like you ain't going I ain't going right so I'm like and that's gonna
become in a day's that's gonna become comatose I'm walking to the airplane and my world changed
I went from being a 10 year old kid playing with kites on the street baseball which was my life
to becoming a man or son to become my father and a mother to my brother and sister and we come to
Miami and my dad got in the plane as we're finally leaving and we come to Miami and what do we do
11 of us go live in a one bedroom apartment with one bathroom writing down what time we're going to
piss because everyone had to go to school work right so here we go from a house that was one
square block to a little 800 square foot apartment in Little Havana you know with it with 11 of us
all together wow and so my father you know went to work as a janitor for jay Byron's which is like a
JCPenney's and making minimum wage 85 cents an hour and never complain and I was like I was mad
because a month later we moved into a house because one of the things that Cubans did that was
really great was you come to Miami and you go live in somebody's house for free for a month or
two months so you can save enough money to rent your own apartment right and then you do the same
for somebody else right right and that's how we helped each other you know
that's how we were overcome we were able to overcome you know then you're getting off the
airplane and seeing signs that said no animals no Cubans this ain't Havana go back to Cuba
speak English I'm telling you so I'm like what the hell's going on I didn't see no
distinction I didn't realize that people hated people yeah so anyway we go and and then we
started to go hungry more all we would have for breakfast was one glass of uh this powdered milk
from vietnam that would not mix with two raw eggs and that's all we had till nighttime and
nighttime we had rice and beans and uh I remember finding out a friend of mine was uh having lunch
and he had just come from Cuba a year earlier than us and I come to find out and I'm like
how is it that you can afford lunch and you're like oh we get food stamps
so really what the hell's that he said oh it's the little thing the government gives you and
with that we go to the grocery store we can buy food man I thought I discovered the universe
I go back to my dad I said hey dad remember I've been telling you that my friend he has lunch
and uh he's like you know he was that type of man that didn't speak much and I said
he told me that he gets food stamps I said dad did you know about food stamps he says uh yeah I do
I said well why don't we get food stamps he says son that's for poor people I'm like holy
shit we haven't gotten to poor yet man we gotta dig our way out of whatever state this is climb up to
poor and uh I said dad are we not poor he said no son we just don't have any money and then I
never forget that he took his two fingers put him in my chest and he says you get up early and help
feed your family I was 10 I weighed 70 pounds I was like skinny rail and I'm like been getting up
since 4 30 in the morning and I'm 64 now for the last 54 years but we did and we struggled and we
survived you know and and this is the thing that that as a lot of times as I speak I talk about
like how we see in the world here what's happening here in America you know with uh
the government giving you now all the section of mind now there's people that need help
yeah without a doubt but I'm gonna take some stimulus checks and yeah with a stimulus check
with the now people don't want to go back to work because they get more with a $600
and you know they did before and what they don't realize what they don't realize is that the government
is creating the new slavery of America the new slaves why are we the slaves because what does
the slave the slave is you just sit back and wait till the master tells you something because
you're not going to be creative you're not going to be entrepreneur you're not going to you're going
to lose your work habits you're going to lose your desire to succeed uh you drive everything
you're just going to sit back and wait till the master sends you a check and then what happens
one day the master don't send the check and it goes on like that and in the middle class is
disappear right and uh you know I'm a capitalist at heart but I believe that that it comes with
a responsibility like when we did in our company so I'm happy and I applaud a Jeff Bezos that leaves
the company you know JP Morgan wherever he was he was working at Goldman Sachs and goes to his
garage to sell books and becomes a multi-billionaire happy form great that's America but damn it man
don't do it at the expense of people that can't live a dignified life you know pay a wage for
someone like my dad and my mother came and with minimum wage salary back then they were able to
save enough in three years where we got the dumb payment of a little house you know so in America
today how well how do we have disparity how do we got people dying unemployment so huge and the
stock market going to the roof so yeah well the distinction in classes are so big that you know
what you know what edges in same thing that happened in Cuba I told this to my dad I said that you
hate communism he says of course I say you know why I said that because you were part of that five
percent that own 95 percent of the wealth so when you have 95 percent of the people have nothing
and here comes a good talking guy charismatic until he's going to make everything equal guess
where are you going to go with that guy and that's what we're going to have here in America
that's what conservative value I mean all kinds are going to disappear why because people are going
hungry in our country people can't make it when we were turkeys people who say look they're stupid
why don't they abandon their house I said abandon the house said do you realize that poor guy can
even has never has an ever in his life put a full tank of gas he goes from paycheck to paycheck
from two dollars of gas to three thousand gas what the hell is he going to go how is he going to
survive you know like people today well you know the health is more important than the economy
I said bullshit yes human life is very very important but you know what the economy is the
health of so many freaking people now I can go to quarantine for well we were two months
dude I was in quarantine for 10 years you know in a three by eight no sex well part of it no bourbon
you know no netflix so quarantine to me is nothing but some people the single mom 40 percent of the
mothers gracing children by themselves what does quarantine do kill them and I talked about I said
look why don't we talk about the 70 000 good americans that die every year but drug overdose
right you know well the government can't why we're not worried about it it's interesting we
can't find money for things like that for drug overdoses for things like education but as soon
as something like coronavirus hits we find trillions of dollars we print it we print it like it's going
out of style right because we're not backed by gold anymore I work for the first serve bank
I was the youngest employee 17 17 years old yeah I worked for them for three and a half years
that's who put me to school so I know the inner workings of the fed and I know all of that the
thing about it is that right now the disparity is so horrific that's why you're going to see people
talk about socialist uh congresswoman got listen in 10 years in 10 years I promise you I promise you
that's all gonna be in our country what is so uh socialist social agenda well without a doubt but
look in reality was america we're a socialist country 80 percent of our gdp goes to social
services right you know so the thing about it is when we have this disparity of wealth and the richer
are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer and people can't support their families
and people are hurting you know what's going to happen someone's going to come in and say hey
you know what we're going to take all the money from the rich people what do you think what do you
think the majority of people can say what do you think the answer is well the answer number one
a balanced capitalism right capitalism is the best formula why because people
are incentivized to create right to work harder right why should you and I make the same when you
don't want to work and I want to work right but it cannot be at the expense or if I invest and I
take the risk I risk my own capital to buy machines or a factory I pay the lease yeah exactly so when
you go ahead and you get all that tax break so that you can invest in machinery right and in people
and you buy the stock back well I'm happy because I'm a big apple stockholder so I was happy right
but you know what happens to the rest of the world America nothing so they sit there and it makes no
difference to them right and they're hurting and they're hurting big time you're gonna hear it and
and uh drug overdose is the same thing with the war on drugs the biggest joke in the world I mean
the biggest joke in the world we spend billions of dollars and I tell I told this to a senator
not to go listen stop the bullshit you're not going to eliminate the cocktails trust me you kill
one there's 10 worst ones in him in line it's not going to as long as America consume 85 percent
of the narcotics in the world someone's going to supply it right supplying the man now I know
how to win the war on drugs right how another thing is because here's the other thing so I say
we spend billions on a drug on war to go out to 15% cocaine right it's less than 15% of the drug
overdose cocaine is less than 50 15 that's the 15% why are we going out to big pharma which is 61%
right right right guess who who did not shut down in the corona virus yeah big pharma twice the
overdose that we've had I know of this virus I know a lawyer from around here who defended a
Colombian ship captain who was sentenced to I want to say it was over 50 years for pulling the ship
into the port of Tampa with hundreds of kilos of cocaine he defended this guy this guy the the
ship got ambushed on the way from Colombia to Tampa by pirates they put the cocaine on the ship
held the gun to the captain's head said if you don't bring some Tampa I'm going to kill you and
your whole family so he ended up doing it and they ended up just getting this guy so what this guy
my friend who's a lawyer he said most of the people that end up going to prison are just the
pawns of the operation the big the big the head honchos that are running the running the businesses
they're protected because either they're paying people off or they're not put they're not out
there getting caught by people because they're just not in the line of fire because they put the
pawns out there to smuggle the stuff and they can get caught yeah and the thing about look there's
a lot of corruption right yeah in America we call a lot in South America we call corruption America
we call it lobbyists but it's corruption and uh so you ask me how do you win the war on drugs
yeah I tell you it's right I call a five-prong approach number one when we went to Colombia
because Colombia when we started Colombia did not grow any drugs right it was all Peru and Bolivia
we bring it to Colombia the we started to uh to crystallize it into cocaine we used to bring the
paste then we start crystal then we started to grow how well for one perfect example so we went
to the people that grew bananas and this is just numbers for example so I say how much you get paid
per acre well we get paid ten dollars and at the end of the season uh the big international banana
companies come and say well we don't need no more bananas said well we don't even have roads to take
it to the city and sell the rest we gotta burn it and we we don't have enough money to make it
through a year so here I come the big bag drug lord right and I said hey buddy forget about
then I only give you a thousand dollars now that means a very religious anti drug anti everything
I say I only give you a thousand dollars to grow cocaine what do you think he's gonna think about
the morality of cocaine or he's gonna think about feeding his family exactly so multi international
quit exploiting South American uh growers and farmers and then you will see you will see what
will happen that's number one number two and it's not that I'm against law enforcement listen uh when
when the government with the president was attacking the FBI I defended the FBI there's
bad people everywhere but there's a lot of good people in law enforcement that go out every day
and might not see their family so that they can go ahead and protect you and I right sure I was
never able to buy an FBI agent I was never ever able to buy a DEA agent and and we bought in 1977
we're spending 100 we're spending a million dollars a month in corruption a million the math today
where did that money go paying people paying judges paying politicians paying everybody that
would take a pay off and it was easy for the FBI and DEA because oh we would have paid him
thousands of dollars just to tell us who's on the investigation or not right not to blow a case
so we didn't now yeah so there's so there's might there might be some bad FBI agent hell yeah
the bad FBI agent but I'm gonna tell you as a whole it's a damn good agency so the DEA
law enforcement as a whole is a good agency that guy that the money guy that killed that
African-American man yeah you can't throw all the people in the world all the good officers
that risk their lives okay now is there police abuse of course there's police abuse there's
humanity abuse it isn't a badge it's people people are are evil there are people are evil
the range mentally but there's a lot of good people a lot of good people that leave their
house every day so you and I are safe right so that's the so that's the number one so number two
you go to stop dealing with the uh multi-international doing that number two you come to the United States
and you take a lot of this money that you're spending in in in interdiction and fighting
the cartels I'm not saying you stop uh law enforcement you start you go on but you don't
need a hundred thousand agents that ain't doing crap you come confiscating very little
and then you invest in the communities you invest in in non-for-profits that are working
their ass off and they can turn communities around I can tell you two perfect examples
of what can be done to change those communities and then you you spend money in mental health
because a lot of the addicts are only addicts because the mental health problem in America
is enormous and people just don't want to deal with it so you invest in the people where you
attack all of a sudden not the not the supply you attack the demand see nixon had it right nixon
when he started uh the war on drugs the first president he went after the to help the addicts
he created the methadone clinics in new york for the heron and he cleaned up new york
reagan came in and said i'm a tough cowboy both shit i'm going to go after the uh suppliers
and we were so happy it was in the midst of my reign i was so happy because number one
i don't give a shit come after me only one you're not going to get me that's number one
and number two just don't mess with my demand right because as long as somebody wants it we'll
figure a way to get it to nixon was doing was messing with your demand no that's what reagan
that's what we've done ever since then right and and what do we call it insanity right doing the
same shit over and over again with expecting a different result so we spend billions and every
year we lose 70 000 americans to drug overdose and in reality the number is probably 140 000 i just saw
a study by john hopkins where he says we're talking about direct but we're not talking about people
that died driving under the influence of drugs we're not talking about many other deaths that are
caused because of drug suicide addiction yeah exactly suicide but nobody does that right you
know when we worry about it when someone in our house dies god forbid or someone close to us
then we're we're worried about and we want to do something about drug addiction right but in the
meantime why who's talking about it nobody's talking about it well now this year 140 000 will
die twice as much right because big pharma then so i go out to big pharma and i said to big pharma
look drugs don't kill people you're not killing people people killing themselves with the drugs
you make and the money that you make you got more responsibility to help and invest in those
communities i call it the lebron jane's model you know what lebron i'm not a fan of lebron jane's
why basketball he's a great athlete i'm a big fan of him as a human being well he left miami i was a
miami heat fan is that why is that why you don't like him no i do like him a lot because what lebron
james is done is what every every african-american leader and every personal color latino needs to
do you created that school he put all the money out of his pocket right those kids are outscoring
every other kid in akron ohio and he's teaching the kids and teaching the parents if you don't
educate your community listen we can burn america to the pope we are going to stop people from hating
people we got us in biblical times man you think lebron james should run for president one day
no i don't know i know you can't vote but i didn't know i can't you can't really i got all my rights
back what i mean this was 40 years ago now remember okay so 79 was my conviction you pulled some
strings so no no after a while i can't on a gun though you know i still cannot on a firearm so
that's one thing but yeah that's wild the um are do you watch basketball are you yeah i'm a big fan
yeah do you think they should start it back up yeah they should yeah of course but now it's
whole money right right of course it's all about money it's all about the owners make all the money
all people that are going to lose their jobs if they don't start it back up yeah because we think
about all those rich basketball players we think about the lebron james and the career but there's
a lot of them that are living today right exactly okay yeah so you know so we got we got that proud
so we gotta invest in the community and this is what i tell the people so look it's wonderful you
got michael jordan donate a hundred million dollars i'm like hey dude what were you when kapper nick
was freaking what were you guys protesting when this guy yeah was was his career devastated you
know are we doing this now because because now it's it's it's it's it's expedient or it's because
it's about time but let's be real i'm a person of color if i think for a minute that every person
and you talk about prejudices they're just as much prejudices not have people of color had a
worse chance have african-americans in america have suffered a lot yeah they have there's no
doubt about that but no matter what we do we never change people's perspective if people hate you
they're gonna hate you no matter what no matter if you are what but what we can change
is they can respect us and unless we start with another thing criminal justice reform
now there's where you got the big there's where the root of the all the problems exist if i was
leading all that money that's been given i said this is what we're gonna do we're gonna go after
those politicians we're gonna stop that crap because when they passed the 1986 act that passed
and all of a sudden you get five years for 10 grams of crack but you need a thousand grams
of powder it's a hundred to one whatever that number it's a hundred to one i'm like
then we figure this shit out that who deals with crack people of color latinos and blacks
who deals with powder white americans right so why won't we why haven't we been protesting this
when all of a sudden we realize that they are locking up our kids that are not criminal giving
them a life sentence because the prison system is a money-making enterprise of special interest
groups they don't look at inmates like people they're inventory so unless you and like van
jones is done with the card that listen elected officials are that elected they don't walk up
to washington to say hey i'm here i'm your leader i'm your congressman we put their ass in there
well you know how we change our america we get them people they're sorry ass out of there and we
pass laws that are just and we and we force rehabilitation instead of punishment you know
and and the crime the punishment must fit the crime and then if we do that and we help those kids
to get out to get out to be rehabilitated to learn a trade in prison instead of just war housing them
in overcrowded prisons so that it becomes very tumultuous right then you know what those kids
will go back to the communities and they'll change other kids unless we change our communities
unless i look at my my latest grandbaby right born in january fat gorgeous and my wife and i
set up a college fund for all of our grandkids i said that kid's gonna have every chance in life to
succeed but there's a little african-american kid born in a community in america with a father in
jail a mother that might be on drugs or prostitute crying in that crib with no one changing his diaper
and who's gonna raise him the gangs are gonna raise him and where's that kid gonna end up the
kid's gonna end up in prison and then it becomes a vicious cycle and if the father goes to prison
80 chance the kid goes to prison right so it becomes a vicious cycle so unless we attack
all those different fronts and then we educate our children because a lot of them cannot even
go to school because they gotta eat they don't have any money so government want to do something
pay those kids money to get a trade an electrician and a plumber makes 85 bucks an hour 80 percent
of all middle middle management don't make that in america so help them believe me if you invest
in a in a in a young person and if you show them why think about this why does a young kid at the age
12 kill someone get in a circle take an unbelievable beating almost to death to join a gang so someone
can tell them 24 hours a day what the hell to do why because he's looking for meaning and belonging
and someone that loves them and that's what the gang does and then we complain right but we don't
care you know so we have this horrific death by a demon because if you look at the guy's eyes man
to me was like he was demonic yeah i mean he's been filmed freaking filmed yeah there's nothing
there's nothing he's just looking at like i don't give a shit if i'm gonna die in prison i'm gonna
kill this this piece of whatever in his eyes right not a human being not a son you know not a brother
nothing they can give a damn about nothing so yeah they should they they shouldn't kill that guy they
need to put him in a jail for the rest of his life because that's if you tell me die in prison or
or sparky the electric chair say take me to sparky buddy yeah because prison and for a guy like that
he ain't gonna make it anyways so but that's that's how i look at it well there's a big difference
between the police local police and other types of military i mean and even higher up levels like
the fbi and the cia or even a navy seals there's a huge difference in the amount of training and
education and education you have to have a college degree to be a da or fbi you don't to be a cop right
so that should be something mandatory and they and they and they and they should be more more money
invested in weeding out everybody knows listen not in the first complaint the guys had so why do
he have six and he's still doing this crap yeah i think uh the basic underwater demolition seals
training there's hundreds of people that get flushed out of that course every single day when
they go through training sure it's basically not only is it physical endurance but it's it's your
character and your mental endurance to be able to get through that kind of torture only the people
that can make it through that are the people are going to have the type of character that it takes
to go to another country and deal with a completely foreign community and try to weed out the bad
people in that i mean there's so many different very variables to it yeah and it's so easy to
become a cop it anybody can become a cop exactly two hours of training a year i think you have to
go through it's no it's it's horrible and and that needs to be flushed out and that needs to be
cleaned up but you know at the end of the day again i go back to the same thing when i came
from here i was taking so and i see the woman you know with a big billboard no animal no cubans
and go back to cuban then i go to school and i see the girls laugh at me and say hey george are
you going to a party saturday oh i didn't know about it and then she said ahaha we don't invite
people like you go back go back to where you came from and on and on and yeah and i've been with my
mom on the phone when i've had somebody said to me speak english you're in america i said dude i
don't know if you know this but we spoke spanish here 200 years before you guys came but the thing
about it is you got to come to grip with the fact that we call it racism prejudice is going to exist
forever it's never going to stop i don't get what anybody says my job was not to make those people
like me right my job was to better myself become somebody and make them respect me right and that's
i come out of prison twice convicted drug dealer if i didn't reinvent myself if i didn't get a school
and get a phd i'd be called a twice convicted drug dealer instead of doctor right so we got to
educate our kids that's that's basic because a non-educated nation is a controllable nation right
and then if they don't have no education people can survive it's survival to finish i tell people
when i come out of prison if if no one will give me a job because i have a big billboard says twice
convicted drug dealer don't hire me and i couldn't feed my family and kids you know what i was going
to do i wasn't going to worry about it i wasn't going to go back to Miami and smuggle drugs again
i knew how to do that right because i got to eat and had my life not changed yeah had i not given my
life to christ yeah had i not mentally changed but i got to eat and when you got to eat and when
you have survived you will do whatever it takes right that's human nature yeah i think it's also
the nature of people who are really young like in their late teens early 20s i feel like
what i've seen consistent is people who are raised in certain environments who don't have a lot of
money don't have the means to survive necessarily they sort of gravitate towards the easier way to
make money like a young girl could gravitate towards a strip club or porn or a young guy like
you in his early 20s if you were in the perfect environment you were in miami and there was cocaine
dealers everywhere that's a really easy way to make money quick so a lot of young people gravitate
towards those you know the quick money when they're younger i think well i i think is i don't know if
it's the quick money uh because it's not easy money by no means but i just think it's survival
you know survival yeah people want to make you know everybody wants to be rich right nobody wants
to be poor and especially when in our latino communities right uh in the latinos we look at
soccer players and there are idols right and you know rinaldin they make millions and millions of
dollars african-american they look at the bra and they look at all this michael jordan they want to
be like them or they won't that's why every kid wants to be a rapper or music but they're not
going to be but every kid can be educated and have unbelievable potential and become a ben
caution or they can become a brach obama you know all was the difference they were all raised poor
you know different somebody believed in them somebody invested in them so my message to my
color community is instead of burning down our nation let's go back and burn our communities
with education with love instead of letting those kids kill over 125 dollar pair of lebron
james shoes do like lebron james go back and talk to those kids and help those kids listen with the
money you make if you just spend 20 30 million dollar like lebron usually you don't have to
sell the ferrari you don't have to sell none of that trust me i know you don't have you can still
live a hell of a good life but you can change a lot of people's lives right but what happens with
our color communities you know latinos and african-american when we make it was the first thing we do
we get the hell out and where do we go we go to the white community who we have criticized all our
lives right you know so we got to recreate our communities so back to us so i so yeah you were
you were 21 years old and you were well i was 10 and and i worked for i worked very hard right
because my father like like i told you my father was a man very proud would never take no money
you know and i i deliver newspapers i cut grass i was a father and a mother to my children my my
brother and sister we had to take them 10 blocks to school come rain come shine come heat in miami
yeah and uh but it was the greatest days of our life because we were united as a family we were
struggled together i said where there's where people struggled together they get closer together
and i had a a life plan planned i mean my life was set in my mind the day three days after came
from cuba my cousin comes by and he has uh candy apple red gto convertible with white interior
and i'm like damn i never seen some that beautiful say that day i have that i'm gonna be somebody
so i was focused i'm gonna go to school i'm gonna work i'm gonna get out of college at 20
i'm gonna get out of law school at 23 24 i'm gonna be a millionaire 30 that was my plan
and it doesn't matter what at the age of 17 i become the youngest employee in the federal
sir bank in miami and i work full time at the federal sir bank and i went to university miami
at night full time wow i had no life for three and a half years right no life uh i got up at
5 30 in the morning i was at the bank at 6 30 i got home at 3 45 4 o'clock i had uh my mother had
dinner for me i'd be school at 5 to 10 i come home and study till 2 o'clock and sleep three hours
and that's it that was my whole life because i graduated top of my class because i always felt
that the person that comes in second place is actually the first loser so i didn't like to lose
so i didn't want to be i always want to be first and then when i'm about to graduate from university
miami now here's the kid i was if you look in the dictionary at that time when i was 20 for the word
nerd it definitely had my picture in it i mean i had braces glasses i dressed like a nerd i had
i drove an old beat up chevy vega with a big old russ hole on the side and uh my accounting professor
asked me he had moved from michigan and he was a partner passing waterhouse and didn't speak spanish
in miami he said hey you want to come work for my office and if you come and just do my spanish
clients i'll give you a secretary an office space you can start your own business to me that was
like the first sign of god right because it's like that's the other thing when i live at 10 in
that airport in miami i made a decision got in real this old bullshit my mom is crazy because if
we're going to america to worship god freely and we're going from wealth to poverty where's god
right like we do a lot of time yeah so and i live my life like that but never did alcohol all the
alcohol i did in my life by the age of 21 fit in a little teacup never smoked never saw drugs in my
life work full time i remember how this girlfriend would go to a party and uh you know in the 70s
it was everybody smoking marijuana and uh and i smell it and i live and she said but we're not
doing i said i don't care i'm a federal employee i can't be around these people they're losers
i'm going somewhere in life i can't ruin my career over nothing and that's how i live uh and uh so i
went to do the clients for my professor and i'm like okay he said i got this client who's a little
grocery store you know and uh he'll pay us a thousand dollars a month now at that time i made
big money at the federal service bank i think minimum wage was like maybe a dollar i was making
350 an hour three and a half time minimum wage you know i had a mid-level management salary i
was living i thought it was big so you know 350 an hour i was taking home 120 bucks
and also i'm like i paid a thousand to go to this grocery store and do their books for three hours
every monday man of course like i'm i'm on my way so i go there in the first and literally
literally it was about the width of this room and about maybe like a little strip uh in a strip
shopping center right okay you know how those little stores and uh i go into the back office this
is 1976 and uh man i see a grocery bag with a hundred thousand dollars didn't think nothing about it i'm
like man it must be since they never had an accountant or never set up their books must be
older sales they haven't deposited them you know here it is your job to count it right well i was
setting i'm a decontent right i'm setting up the whole accounting okay i got to do the bank
deposits i got to pay do their payroll i got to do the whole deal a hundred thousand wow so i left
didn't think nothing about it came back next week 75 000 now i start thinking you know wow
how can this store make so much impossible the third week i go there and there's another 100
110 and there's all the receipts of what they have purchased for the month and it added up to like
i don't know 800 to 2000 bucks something like that and i'm like now i gotta talk to these people
so i called them in and i'm like hey abro let me give you a small accounting lesson
in accounting we buy something we buy that can on cambo soups for one dollar and if we sell it for
three dollars we got two dollar profit now i've counted this month over 300 000 that means that
if you're making triple on everything you sell you must have spent a hundred thousand dollars
to buy all this right but all i see like less than 2000 bucks doesn't add up even to the point
never thought nothing more than and he laughs and he's like we're not in the grocery business
we're drug dealers i'm like holy shit a drug dealer and i didn't even know what the hell that was
right because in high school all we know about you know kids took pills you know up and down yeah
i'm like what and uh so imagine this freaking nerd all of a sudden find out and he's like look
george you work for the federal government you know how to open foreign bank accounts don't you
i say yeah i do and he's like uh well how much well i knew that it cost about 700 bucks in green
came in and of course i didn't want to get involved in nothing i was happy with my thousand thousand
month right you know and three other clients i was making three grand a month doing the spanish
clients i was like in heaven and he and i'm like about ten thousand dollars i'm gonna give a number
that they'll just walk away he said you told him it was ten thousand bucks yeah i said it cost about
ten thousand dollars he said okay we need you to open three and i'm like what three damn so i left
i acted like very very serious and all that i said look i can't travel for the next three or four
weeks i forgot and this is how much time i need to figure out who the hell i can find we knew it
because in the federal reserve bank we had busted in an audit a bank uh this guy owned three banks
and he had he had uh taken like three and a half million dollars which in the 70s that's like
50 million dollars and uh when that note became due he'd have another bank in grand came in number
bank pay that loan right and he kept it like that for years when the reason they got caught was
when the federal reserve bank went to audit his secretary went home the the friday early
and she forgot to make the entry was sitting on her desk and they come in and that's the first
thing they went to look for they never probably will never caught it anyway so but i did and i went
and opened those bank accounts for me and i was like i thought i was the richest man in the world
i'm you know making i made like 27 grand and uh then one day he comes and he tells me and this
all happened within six months because my partners would like to talk to you they want to start a
business and i'm like okay so i met with him and and this is what was interesting how he got me
because manual like i said he was very educated man he was a businessman you know so the first
thing he asked me says look i want to open a banana import company and i need you to do a
feasibility study for me had he come in there and said look here's 30 000 dollars uh build me a banana
company then i'm like nah shit something's wrong with it but you know you do feasibility study and
that's how a business is supposed to do right right so i did the feasibility study and they could
make a lot of money little did i know that what they wanted to do with the bananas was just bringing
drugs right so this group so i said look i don't work for anybody uh for me to abandon because
well we're going to be the president i said look for me to abandon my accounting practice
i gotta get paid six seven thousand dollars a month and not gonna be equal partners because
i'm not gonna put up my name in and sacrifice my whole career for a business that you got my
walk away one day right and they're like fine so here i'm 20 years old i'm partners with these guys
in this banana company called kiss so we went out i went all over europe to find this boat
that uh to bring the bananas from columbia and uh ended up finding one in sacramental california
you had no clue no freaking clue man at all i'm like okay you know what they they deal drugs but
they're they're big legitimate business they have a lot of stuff going on
so as long as i don't do anything wrong there was no money laundering laws none of that
da uh drugs uh cooking was not in the da radar so it was not like a big deal the whole deal with
drugs was heron and marijuana at that time so he's like uh so we find the ship we buy and we're
gonna convert to refrigeration so i go out there to oversee the whole conversion for about three
months and while i'm out there the guy that's doing the refrigeration as a young guy a couple
years older than me and i used to play baseball a lot i was gonna be a i want to be a major league
baseball player and uh he has a softball team and i'm there by myself in stock in california right
living in the ship right yeah so uh and the guy's name was mel so he's like i go over to his house
and we have barbecue and then you know i joined his team and then he kept kidding me he said you
know that boat is really to bring in cocaine i'm like mel you're full of shit man you think i'm gonna
put my name on a boat that's gonna bring in drugs you're crazy no no no man it is you need to hook
me up hook me up and i'm laughing at him right but bugging the hell out of me yeah during this
period this group started saying to me after i set everything up and we had everything just
going perfect we had the box that we had uh the ship registered in in grand cayman uh i mean everything
was perfectly organized we had offices we had warehouses this year everything they're like you
know you can make so much money oh because i went and i said to him you know the guy that's doing
fray jersey keeps bugging me telling me that this is a cocaine boy boat and this and i'm like
i thought he's an idiot how am i gonna put my name out there right didn't say nothing at that time
but later on they start saying you know you can make a lot of money representing us in the united
states and i'm like what do you mean representing he says i do i said i'm partners with you in this
shipping company and they're like no no in all of our businesses now i knew that we're talking about
the drugs right right so i'm like look i'm not interested man you know i just want to get this
going it's a great business we're gonna make a lot of money and we were gonna make a lot of money
right because they grew their own bananas but they kept at it kept at it and one day i got this
genius idea and i'm like okay i know how to get rid of mel i'm gonna try to find out what cocaine
goes for in miami at that time was going for 42 to 44 and i'm gonna give him a crazy price
and then he's just gonna leave me alone i said next time when he come and ask me i'm gonna say
look we are man we're drug dealers now but you know you want to buy some it's 72 thousand
dollars a kilo i'm like almost yeah he's like oh man that's how i say yeah i know it's coming
it's right off the tree i didn't mean to come so a tree or the hell it comes from i couldn't tell
i couldn't tell cocaine from freaking cotton you know from sugar yeah and uh he's like oh man well
i'll talk to my partners say yeah you do that i'm like went to bed happy next day i leave for
columbia and i'm like why don't i do the same thing with the columbians why don't i tell him
i'll handle everything for you but i gotta be equal partners and i got no money to put up
you guys gotta put up now at that time you had you buy a kilo in cocaine for 22 thousand dollars
right so they're bringing in 300 kilos right 200 kilo when we started which was 4.4 million
dollars it was for them i said i'll be the fifth so you figure five five people divided by 4.4
it's about 810 thousand dollars a piece that's how i get 800 i didn't even know how much money
exists in the world so he's like so i said that's what i'm gonna tell him and i'm gonna say look
i'll handle all operations i'm equal partners and you gotta put out my money because i don't
got no money and i was convinced they were gonna take this dirt kid and turn him around and kick
his ass all the way back to california without an airplane you know right so sure enough the
minute he opened his mouth i said look i've been thinking about it manuel and uh i'll do it but
this is the deal and he's like uh i gotta talk to my partner say yeah you need to do it because
it's a big decision and i went to my hotel and i was happy i knew that that was over with next
morning they picked me up to take me to the airport and uh chauffeur says uh manuel was to see
his off and i thought we had to go over some books or something and i get in him and the other
three partners are sitting there very stoic looking you know like like a wall i'm like oh
shit i really screwed up they're gonna kill me they they're gonna think i know too much you know
all this shit starts going through your head you know and uh it looks at me he says we'll do it
we'll front you but we'll keep your profits so that you have your own money to invest
and i'm like you really guys really need to think about this i never been i never seen drugs in my
life no but you're pretty sharp you can handle it i can't tell the difference between cocaine and
nothing i said are you crazy are you guys sure you want to put a 20 year old kid in charge of this
and they're like yeah we're sure and uh within six months we were importing
600 kilos i was making between a million three million dollars a month and i set up the entire
organization pilots distribution how do we get the money created all the foreign bank accounts in
switzerland grand cayman lichtenstein tortola how many partners it was for them and me i was a fit
that group was if you want to call any group the median drug cartel that would have been the group
that became the median drug cartel because it was the only group at that time there was other people
bringing two kilos three kilo but a concerted group that was bringing by the time 1979 we're
bringing 800 kilos a month 2000 no one when no one even knew when when you used to like i said
i was saying one or two kilos you know and uh so in 79 at this time salma gluda who was my closest
friend right says to me hey the government of bolivia wants to deal wants to make a deal with you
and i'm so we went and we met with this captain of the bolivian air force and they're like look
we can sell you all you want at ten thousand dollars a kilo and for every kilo you buy i'll
give you another one on credit and i'm like i'll be doing numbers and i'm like we're gonna make
seven million bucks a month and i saw i went to my godfather manual and he's like no you're crazy
the bolivian government yeah oh yeah the bolivian government how did that happen oh
everybody knows they were like you saw a movie scarface yeah the guy comes to kill toni montana
right guy named roberto suarez yeah that was our partner with the shotgun yeah yeah he didn't come
to yesterday that guy was so big that was our partner he over through five governments you know
very very powerful the governor of bolivia during that period time was run by the drug by the drug
industry okay and so i go to my godfather he's like now forget about it there's no way
you know you run everything for us if something happens what's gonna happen to the organization
so nothing's gonna happen to me don't worry about it and i flew to bolivia and we made the deal and
when we are going and to get the story in greater like juicy detail then you got to buy my book
because you know if you don't buy the book oh the whole story yep but like i said coming clean
clip notes yeah cliff now i'm giving the cliff no yep so i fly to columbia and i'm going to show
the strip to the pilots where the plane's gonna come from bolivia refuel in columbia then go to
nicaragua i was going to wait for a nicaragua because i had a meeting with somosa the general
of nicaragua because we were going to start bringing in cocaine in his refrigerated government uh
fishing boats or refrigerated boats okay and uh so i call bolivia to tell him that okay the plane
will be there tomorrow and my partner there says you need to come here they screwed you
i'm like what are you talking about he said the only cocaine that's here is what you paid for
which was like 130 kilos and they're like not on credit and i went down there and
you know i threatened them that i was going to kill them and they looked at me like are you crazy
you are the craziest person in the world or you got the biggest set of balls we ever met
but you said that again we'll kill you and i'm like i'm 23 years old i'm just a kid
and look like a kid i didn't even look intimidating
so i get on the airplane because i had to be in nicaragua and there was no way to catch a
plane from bolivia to nicaragua you know back then there would be a flight once a week twice a week
so i'll get on the airplane go back to columbia not a problem and then from there i'll keep on
the airplane to nicaragua one day they landed there and refueled then somosa was going to send me
in a jet to go pick up my ex wife in the american republic because i was going to europe to pick out
this brand new uh mercedes converter what i bought and we're going to spend the month in europe
so landing columbia perfect everything went like clockwork then we leave for uh nicaragua the next
day and the first alternator goes out and they're like you think we should turn back i said we turn
back we're turning back to a jungle how how are we gonna get another alternator here let's just
can we make it to nicaragua one one so now the alternators was because we had a bladder right
in those airplanes you have to have a big bladder which is you know rubber like good years to make
and then we have extra fuel and that and the fuel would be pumped out to the tank so we would
have longer range right okay because when you load those airplanes with 400 kilos of cocaine
then the range of it drops right so you put extra gas and then you got you'll be able to land
from bolivia non-stop to nicar to columbia and where does the cocaine go like what what part
of the plane you put the do you have to hide it or just no no you don't even hide it double the
bladders yeah and uh duffel bags yeah oh yeah no we had every country paid off okay we had everybody
wherever wherever that airplane flew over somebody that ran a radar was paid off and some president
was paid off the minister the guy that ran the radar was paid off so yeah we did it man we flew
like like we're just delivering toys you know go go ahead check the plane i dare you so we so i'm
going and then the other alternator breaks and then we crash landed in panama right so you see a
copy if you see a picture of my book the plane landed like this we should have all died when the
plane lands in panama immediately the police came and got caught in a tree or something no no we ran
out of fuel and we crash landed thing got it was a banana field that had just been cut days earlier
so it was all like rains and mushy so it was like like mud yeah so the plane just died otherwise
you could have exploded so i jumped out the guy my partner the guy that i hired to uh
transported for me harold he jumps out and says blow the airplane take the flare gun and let's
blow the freaking airplane and i'm like oh hell no we're not i said dude there's seven million
dollars of cocaine in that airplane he's a george you can make it again blow the airplane or you
can go to jail i said i mean i mean my country i'd bribe anybody i want out here i ain't worried
about going to jail in south america right so the police count and i had a sensor knife briefcase
i had a false bottom and i always kept a hundred i travel with a hundred thousand dollars all the
time and i took out that's the mistake i made i took out 200 but i should have just told the guy
what was going on and say hey here's ten thousand dollars which is today's money's two hundred thousand
to a guy that probably made ten dollars a week a month he would have guarded that airplane with his
life i said look we crashed we were looking for uh some land to buy in we had a problem with y'all
thing and we crashed and he couldn't go on the airplane because we had to literally jump off
so he had to bring a ladder to be able to go in the airplane right right so i felt good about that
and uh i said hey take here's my passport can you stamp them so that we came in legally take us
to a hotel i'm gonna make some phone calls so i can get someone tomorrow morning from castorica
so castorica was only about 10 miles from there and we had spent over a million dollars to get that
president elected in castorica so we have a lot of power in castorica we know be totally safe we can
we'll take the cocaine right in the car right through the border how did you spend 10 million
dollars to get a president elected because you end up having all kinds of connections all over the
world right everybody knows somebody see that the people wonder like how do you bribe somebody
everybody has a best friend and the best friend has a best friend and you can always get to somebody
you know like they'll say money corrupts and absolute corrupts and absolute money corrupts
absolutely well that's it i mean when people are making nothing and people need money like well today
so because the building out to run for president should have been uh bloomberg and paying for your
own election right you you got people giving you a lot of money they're not giving you a lot of money
because they like you because you're pretty and you talk nice they give you a lot of money because
you gotta do what they say and that's the bottom line right we wanted to buy the playboy hotel in
castorica so because it was a good way to launder money so i knew that we had no problem so we went
to the hotel i made a phone call and they sent a car the following morning so i went to police
station to pick out the passports and when i went to police station to pick out the passport
i saw these gringos i'm like we're fucked i said we got a problem fbi it was the head of the dea
for panama it was the council general for panama and it was the head of the g2 for panama they
come and they had all the cocaine in a table just like this and they put us behind it they took pictures
of us and i said i want to talk to my attorney good luck and they're like dude you're in panama
this is napoleonic law we can keep you seven years without you talking to anybody
i'm saying sure say sooner or later somebody big is gonna come see me i'm convinced of that
exactly the following day the attorney general comes and when the attorney general comes i say
look don't waste my time i got two questions how much money to buy the cocaine back how much money
to leave he's like uh noriega already sold the cocaine 250 thousand dollars for you to leave
100 for you 50 for each of the other ones i'm like okay so take this number and this code
call this number get and i turn the code to give and i said tomorrow you have the money here
and then sure enough two days later he comes he says everything's set we're gonna take you to panama
how did that work how do you how do you make a phone call from nicaragua and get someone they
did from panama from panama and where the united states they wired money no someone flew it someone
flew cash the next day remember we talked about 1979 so you had someone ready to go on call at all
times to deliver money anywhere in the world we had we had all kinds of emergency uh okay programs
in place right so like for when we we went to deliver a car yeah we had we always had a suicide
car which meant that if a cop is following you and you got the cocaine in your car yeah on the
suicide car i'm to ram your car and destroy you and take me to jail for whatever you on but nothing
gonna happen to a cocaine okay so we had all kinds of contingency plans right okay and then we had
all kinds of codes at that time remember this during this time there's no cell phones this is all
dial phones you know right and uh and and satellite phones and the number that they would
call it's a satellite and when they call that number no one is supposed to call that number
unless any of us major the major people in the united states were in deep trouble got it okay
so whoever had that and he was given that code and told where he knew what he had to deliver
where how much money and to who that's insane so yeah so anyway it happened like that so
you can look they're gonna take you back i'm sitting they're gonna rough you up make it look
good for the da and you're going on to castorica show me the airplane tickets everything ready
i made the mistake and i go back and i tell herald in front of the pilots don't worry man i just
bribed the attorney general we're out of here in two days two days came they picked us up flew
us to panama city private jet everything beautiful and uh we get to panama city and there's a room
big conference room nothing four chairs up against the wall so they tell us to sit down we sit down
and also in the open window and they bring this panamanian kid completely naked handcuffed probably
about five one ninety five hundred pounds they threw him on the floor feet handcuffed hand handcuffed
and they took a broomstick and stuck it up his ass and blood just splattered all over the place
until the kid just i thought they killed him and they looked at us and looked at it says
we caught him with 10 pounds of marijuana in other words we got you guys with 250 kilos of
cocaine think what's happening this big old two big old georgia pilots six two one and six three
the minute they saw that we'll tell we'll tell because the story was that i was just flying
i was going to meet with the sandinistas and i was supposed to give them the suitcases
that i thought had guns and they were going to pay me 25 000 which would have been nothing in
land america right i didn't know there was cocaine in there so if we start to the story
it would have been no problem because we crash landed in panama we didn't land in panama to do
something panama so the third year was going to leave us with the fact he had no jurisdiction
over us right but when the minute that we that he saw that they told them number one not only
if georgia but there's the biggest drug dealer in america he's just by the attorney general
and that shit hit the fan they sent them to miami and they took me and harrell their boss
and they took us in a dungeon for 27 28 days and they torture us day and night day and night
to the point that for five years every time i went to a bathroom i pissed blood they would just
come in and just beat us that we pass out they would throw gasoline on us uh cattle prod to my
testicles i would jump this high and somehow pass out but it's interesting as i tell you about
mindset one of those times that i pass out i had this vision and the vision is i'm chaving and i
see my son my younger son who was only six months old but he's about seven or eight and he comes and
he's crying and he's like i'm like why are you crying georgia he's like that my friend said
that my father's not a man and i said that day i'm gonna die in this son of a bitch but i'm not
giving him nothing and my fear was that i would lose my mind my friend and uh there's just a new
book that came out by the daughter of harrell the guy that was arrested with me well he sent
the letters and we were separated in the united states right he went to another gentleman he sent
the letters relating all of the tortures he went through and she i read my book and when she read
my book she's like god man he's like unbelievable they went through it was this guy's went through
my father and george and uh my fear was there was this guy in a cell called now this cell had no
bathroom no toilet no water sink no nothing uh there was this packet of water that would come
from the ceiling and whenever they opened it you have bugs uh and there was a straw at the end of
the cell where once a week they would take a fire hydrant hose and just flush all that shit out so
it was excrement all over we smell like we smell like horrible and uh hey i remember there was this
rat how old were you at this point i just turned 23 23 there was a little rat that was coming around
us right and i kept looking i'm like mickey if they don't get me out here soon i'm gonna eat your ass
right now you're my only companion but i'm gonna eat you and uh eating you oh no so he uh
uh so i see this guy across this dungeon right and the you can read about the joke because it's
very infamous called a modelo from the 1800s uh hundreds and he kept all day long he had been
there six months and kept all day long just licking the bars right he just totally lost his mind and
my whole thing is i'm gonna die i wanted to kill me but i can't lose my mind i can't sit on like a
vegetable and you know have my parents wipe my butt and all that crap so when we just couldn't take
anymore one of the beatings i told the guard listen tell noriega to kill me because if he
don't kill me he knows that i got the power that when i get out of here i'm gonna rape his family
i'm gonna kill them and then i'm gonna kill him well i knew for sure right that you told him tell
it to noriega yeah and i just knew for sure he would kill me and sure enough the next day he comes
but the funny thing is i haven't saw this feeling of relief i'm about to die and it's good
you know i'm fine with that well he comes laughing and he comes up to me he's like
why are you threatening me i didn't tell on you threatened your pilots right he said by the way
you paid the wrong guy yeah i'm like how much i knew that was a clue that was giving me that
i should have paid him he says 250 000 i said let me ask you something is that like a going
price here in panama because i paid the other guy 250 for four and now we just two of us and
still the same price he laughed and he's like so we went to the same routine right and uh two
days later he came and got us they took they took us to this room and they and they washed us down
with his fire houses now if you ever get hit with a fire that's when you see protests that get hit
with fire hoses the tortures were nothing compared to the fire that water oh my god
that waterfall force that your body is just like bullets coming at you ripping your skin apart it's
horrific so and he takes us to the airport we're sitting there waiting for an airplane to come to
miami i'm in to castorica and then also i see like 15 interpol agents they didn't even ask my name
or nothing they picked me up like a sack of potato and i'll wait at that time 180 185 and
they threw me in an airplane to miami i got to miami da and all i was waiting there
take us to the court and i get charged with heading the largest drug conspiracy in the
history of america i'm giving a seven million dollar bond they used that specific language
yeah now think about this seven million dollars then in court we got it down to two million
but you only you only get bail denied if you murder someone you're dangerous to the community
right now i'm saying to myself i'm 23 i don't have a freaking speeding ticket i got a family
i got a college degree i can substantiate my lifestyle you know i pay taxes thousands i pay
hundreds of thousands of dollars to taxes yeah back then you pay fifth amendment source income
right and you pay taxes i said i could only go to jail for selling alcohol he went to jail for
taxes so i'm not going to go to jail for taxes i'm making up money hey this is another business
pay taxes and i did and uh and then we challenged it right because we have a constitutional right
to bail and because why am i a danger to community first of all the drugs disappeared
noriga sold them so they didn't even have drugs then you have a wiretap then you have a picture
so they have me there on a sworn complaint with me no indictment nothing i had the best
attorneys in the world right i had alan durchiewicz i had uh marty weinberg i had shall be had me
who became a a judge a federal judge in miami his building law was one of the chief judges in
the appellate court with these miami guys uh marty was out of boston okay i mean marty charged me
in that time 25 thousand dollars just to tell me whether he would take the case or not and then
so i paid a million dollars with the lawyers at that time 10 million dollars today 15 million dollars
and uh so we went to fight the bail right and we hired alan durchiewicz which you see them all over
the place now and uh famous harvard professor and we knew that we would get it because how can they
say i haven't killed anybody you know i'm alleged to be a drug dealer but there's no drugs so but
a federal judge issued this ruling in this court's opinion mr valdez is not only a danger to his
community his community being the whole united states and based upon that is why drug dealers
don't ever get bail anymore because up to that time everybody got bail a murderer got a hundred
dollar bail was huge a kid 23 year old 2 million dollars unheard of six months later seven months
later no indictment they take my case in front of a grand jury miami wouldn't indict me a grand jury
in central florida would not indict me i grant you in northern florida they would not indict me
and the judge finally says if you don't have an indictment by wednesday i'm gonna cut them loose
right because they held me six months on a complaint right so go to court and uh
the judge asked the prosecutor do you have an indictment says no we don't they couldn't get
an indictment there was nothing what could they indict me for you know they didn't have nothing
right so they go ahead and i'm i'm like i start kissing my parents i'm about to walk out of the
court and here comes a marshal arrest them arrest them he's just been indicted in the northern
district in the middle district of georgia in making georgia i'm like making georgia how do you
know where the hell that is i've never been there in my life so what ends up happening is harrell
rosenthal the guy that that i hired to bring the pilots in he had a case spending of which he even
faked his death so when we came to united states the judge looked at him and said well welcome back
mr rosenthal he said your honor i'm the second jew to come back for the dead everybody just cracked
oh my god so anyway they made me that i was their supplier but i only met these people and that was
a case three years prior because the guy faked his death left and disappeared i just met them two
months earlier right right so we hired all those lawyers and our defense was that we're gonna go in
there and confess that i'm a drug dealer oh by the way they go and they lure that captain of the
bolivian air force they lure him to panama and they arrest him in panama and bring him to united
states and say here's the guy that sold the drugs to george and uh the guy is not cooperating i put
this his attorney so we go in there and i and we tell him yeah i'm a drug dealer i'm the biggest
drug dealer in america but we were we were fighting the case not to win a trial we thought we could
but we thought there was a great chance we can't because a cuban in makin georgia there's no way
with an old white jury right you know yeah yeah so that's but we're fighting to win an appeal
on the venue okay in other words you again you have a constitutional right to be tried where
you commit your offense you cannot do sell drugs here right now in tampa and be charged in california
oh there's just a venue to california right the buyer's coming from california or whatever
so we're like i'm a drug dealer i'm the biggest drug dealer in america but you have no right to
try me in makin georgia if you want to try me try me miami that's the only place you allege
that at a at a foreign bassist hotel on easter day i pop out this map of columbia right the
cafeteria is like like this right everybody's sitting next to each other in the cafeteria
and i tell this pilot this is where we're going to go to pick up the cocaine that was the whole
indictment against me wow that was the whole indictment that's it that i said that which we
proved to pictures had impossible there's no way someone can even pull up a map the tables are like
this at that whole cafeteria but anyways we're like okay i'm being railroaded it doesn't matter
okay so we'll win in a trial and because there's no way that the course will ever and we had a judge
a guy that was a judge in my defense team he had been a judge and his brother-in-law is in the
new Orleans court of appeal so you know we knew that we would win okay i hired a gene baker the
dean of the harbor law school uh i had the best money could buy and uh and we went i get convicted
but the funny thing is i get convicted but the catholic effort gets found innocent and i'm like
if that's another big thing sell anything what did i buy what do you mean he's innocent and i'm
guilty yeah how does that work what happened was you know ego kills people so i've always
worse what kills people ego your ego will kill you all the time okay i always wore suit right
i've always dressed you know like like a business person right well alan was his attorney who later
on i would meet him making who had just been out of law school he gets the guy's wife to
go to jc penny and buy the cheapest clothes and then he had signs with her because she didn't speak
english right so whenever he went like that she would cry and all that so and he and he had the
guy looking like a beggar now i walk into the courtroom with bodyguards in a limo dressed
like freaking uh john godi or something right with my ex-wife who was a beauty queen and uh
that judge looks at me so he only has one attorney i have five in my table and the judge looks at me
says mr valdez how can you tell this court you're innocent you gotta mill it out with the lawyers
everyone other young men cannot afford that i mean it was like crazy like crazy and uh so
i get convicted i'm i'm giving the highest sentence 15 years 15 years special parole
$250,000 fine and i go out to prison to win to wait for my appeal and uh i had a blast in prison
you know you had a blast yeah i saw you guys say he had a hard time well when you're nobody
have a hard time but if you got money in prison i went there and a lot of people work for me or
someone to work for me so i mean i i have brand new sheets every day i didn't i didn't know where
the sheets that the inmates was i went to tallahassee which at that time was one of the most
dangerous prison america they call it gladiator school because in tallahassee in in washington
dc every crime is a federal crime so what happens is anybody come in whereas the federal uh inmate
during that period of time was more of a white collar smuggler you know yeah people that were
not violent right well in dc you had all those murderers rapists all that and they all went to
tallahassee so every week i was a state prison no fed i was a fed but in dc every crime is a
federal crime right because it's a commonwealth okay so every week it was four dorms 150 men
like a barracks like a military barracks and uh every week they would search and they have this
drum 55 gallon drum full of chanks all kinds of weapons all kinds of homemade knives and stuff
like that and i was just 23 but everyone knew i had more money than anybody else yeah i bought every
guard that i could you know and whenever uh they brought meat for beef stew i would buy all the meat
i had i'm the only inmate that i went to eat and i had a table cloth on my table so i live like a
king because i also in exchange i kept the peace in the prison then i could transfer well i bribed
because i could have never gotten transferred to eglene air force base which was a camp right
at that time they called it fed camp that's like a free-for-all camp yeah yeah i mean the bars is
they do a red line on the ground and don't cross that but when you go out and you work in the military
base you know eglene is the largest air force base in the world so you go work there and you're
driving a truck you're like a free man so when i went to eglene well what happened was one of my
attorney became very good friend with the designating officer in a lana who designated
inmates because i was never should never been designated to eglene right because i was a very
high profile uh i was what they call original jurisdiction which means you're the head of a
big family and all the cases go to washington but this guy was about to retire and i gave him
$50,000 to designate me to eglene so i get sent to eglene man i walk into a prison right straight
to the captain's office the warden's office i don't know how the fuck you got here you don't
belong here i don't know who you paid off i'm like what you mean that federal employees take bribes
i didn't know that and he like get out of here but i'm watching you and don't ever think that you're
gonna walk work in that base i said sir i'm just here to do my time i got three years left i'm not
causing no problem i don't have a single ride up in the prison i got a great uh you know
resume and just do my time so they assigned me to a dental office and uh the hospital which
was the best job there i was white suit and uh i ended up having a relationship with one of the
females that worked in the hospital for about a year year and a half and then uh they thought
that something was going on on a friday so on a friday we had the dental office locked up
cleaning all the instrument and uh the social warden comes and when the door was locked up he's
like what the hell's going on here i'm like we got locked up because this instrument you don't want
the image to have actually to the instrument and uh you know that person came and said yeah well he
was just cleaning up and just supervision and he's like couldn't say nothing and uh next saturday
night when all the uh sunday night when the java simons come out people come to my uh bunk and they're
like dude you're out of there i'm like what yeah they assigned you to the base i'm like they assigned
me to the base oh man that's my punishment is that i is that the word is that they think that you
you have something going on with one of the female workers right i'm like all right so i go to the
base and then after a week you know i'm gonna sign a crew so i go up to the guy running the crew and
i said look i'll make a deal with you i'll give you 500 a week you pick us up in the morning
sign us out give me the truck i'll take the crew i'll supervise him but leave me alone
you go he had a girlfriend go go go see your girlfriend yeah oh are you crazy i'll be damned
if i'm only and he was a big old man i'll be neck if i'm gonna let some spic go ahead and tell me
what to do i said i'm just suggesting that i can do this and you can have fun and you can make
some money so on friday i disappeared all the equipment out this big old military truck that
we drove all the lawn mowers and the and the weed eaters and uh so so he checks us out he goes to
check us back into the prison and as i'm about to go in he comes running valdez valdez valdez
and i'm like what's the problem he said you son of a bitch where's my equipment i seen the back of
the truck we just left it a couple minutes ago i said that's my crew yeah six of them i said come
here guys we're under i said i'm the driver by the way so i don't look in the back where you guys
put the the toro you know seven thousand out toro three of them and uh they're like in the back of
the truck man he was just about to cry he said look i'll make you a deal you take my original
deal and i'll i'll go around the prison i'll find out what the hell happened to your equipment
and if i can find it for you monday morning i'll give you the money how much he said thirty
thirty eight summer thousand dollars i said i'll give you the money i said okay okay please please
please this is my whole retirement this is my second job i retired from the military three years
ago i said all right no problem we had hidden it on the beach and i'm like oh we cannot i'm like
i hope nobody runs into this freaking equipment i'm gonna lay out thirty eight thousand out for
this freaking joke we come back and the money was there i mean the equipment was there and he
let me do whatever and i met a girl that came to visit her father who later on i got married to her
and uh i used to leave the base every day i used to laugh i said i said if a person inmate
goes out of this big secure air force base what the hell are the russians doing
and uh i bought an apartment right outside of eglenn and i went home every day i went home every
day i ate good i had sex for how many years for two and a half years for two and a half years
and uh at the end there was this lieutenant who was a friend of mine he was really really cool
and uh so i'm walking right they finally i did all my time and uh so i'm walking out he says to me
please tell me the truth were you seeing your wife i said i was and he's like where we would
spend all day long looking through this entire freaking base i said you're looking the wrong
place i was outside the base he said you didn't have the balls did you i said yeah i did i said
i left every day i said i left every day and uh i got out and i was angry that that you know i
didn't have to work again and i should do you when you got out i got out i got out in 85 so i was 29
okay and uh i didn't have to do a damn thing for the rest of my life but you still had all your
money no i had not all my money but i had a lot of money i'm at the beginning i made a lot of money
still while i was in prison and uh but i was angry i was like they set me up they didn't get me right
they didn't get me straight up you know i gotta get even it was all and again going back to the ego
of having to do saying that i can do it again and then the people that i got started in the business
when i got out that i left it when i realized i wasn't going to leave prison i left the whole
organization the airplanes the shares that got to the loads when the airplanes landed the buyers
the transportation everything the suppliers they betrayed me so how do they betray you well i was
supposed to go back and be part of the organization but they did me a favor because had i been part
of the organization again i would have been in like Detroit because later on they went crazy
they started you know telling people it was part of the whole boat uh boat races uh deal yeah and
that was different right and when you got out wasn't Pablo established by then when i got out
Pablo was very established by then yeah and he was very notorious and uh so i started smuggling
again and uh for about almost two years well three years and then my mother kept telling me son
see i tell people my mother was the best a tough love and that's what i tell parents you gotta be
because my mother will constantly said to me what you're doing is wrong i wanted to buy him a mansion
i wanted to buy him a house i had hoars living in mansions and my mother lived in the same 20 000
house that they bought when they came from Cuba they won't take a penny from me they won't take
nothing and son what you're doing doesn't please god and mom there is no god don't be stupid
and and constantly but my mom would say that she would cut me no slack if you get arrested
you're gonna kill your father and i again and uh but the minute she finished saying that
she was like what do you want to eat for dinner tonight and she would make me my favorite food
so she showed me she wasn't across the line she would tell me what was wrong but then she showed
me love so what happens is you gotta teach your kids what true north is right so that when your
kids go crazy like they can happen because if you happen to me can happen to anyone i mean if you
look at my life i was destined to be somebody great i didn't have to do that shit i mean i thought i
would be fed share but i was in my 50 you know i had a great job since i was a young age i started
17 think about 37 i couldn't retire from the fertilizer bank with full retirement yeah you know
so anyway i had the whole world open up to me but lo and behold i took i made the wrong choice
so she kept adding and adding and adding and it started to really bother me and then i started
to see the world change now i had to go around with bodyguards now i had to carry a gun and
and this is when and this is when Miami started to become like really militant with the police and
miami became the most dangerous city in the world at that time 85 it was like really taking off
that's really really bad king cowboys movie right based on that yeah i mean watch those kids the
people that make cooking cowboys yeah right on tour studios yep follow them yeah i know billy
corbin i'm very i just filmed something really important for them oh did you follow them and
see what's gonna come out six episodes okay so yeah billy corbin great great guys yeah if i'm
i've been approached by every hollywood studio there is and uh you know billy came to me three
years ago not five years ago and he's like we're doing this whole series on these guys and
they're selling grams at the discotheque and all of a sudden the millionaires and we're like
there's a missing link what the hell is this missing link so we start to find out and start
asking and asking and i think it was a prosecutor said to him you want to find the missing link
find george valdez said we know her to him said exactly because he was not he ran that like a
business he was at his office at eight o'clock in the morning left at six he didn't go around
racing boats partying he ran his business like a bit the only way we found out about him was because
his attorney turned on him my first attorney who was like my best friend in the world yeah was the
one that was telling them everything about me and i didn't even find out for seven years milk
kessler and uh so they came in approach me and i'm like look i don't want to do this why do you
want me to be part of what you guys are doing i said i'm not like those guys i said what what
what all these people have in common good family high school dropouts become drug dealers make a lot
of money live a lavish lifestyle kill people die or spend the rest of their life in jail
okay george valdez poor family good family i was not a high school dropout i got three degrees
number two i didn't kill anybody i did my time i went to prison for 10 years but i reinvented
myself and i started and i went and got a degree and i got uh another bachelor's and a master's and
a phd you want to have that label put on you i say and my life is about i don't give a s**t about
doing another drug movie that's stupid there's plenty of them done already i said i want to do
something where it gives people hope so that the thousands of books i sent to prison and the letters
i get back if god changed george valdez he can change me if george valdez changed i can change
i realize now money's not everything mod what when and if i ever do anything i said it's gonna be
because i'm gonna give people hope and realize that there is redemption you're gonna suffer the
consequence of these choices but your past does not have to define you and you can change and you
can in america is the most amazing country in the world america loves to elate superstars loves to
destroy them but at the same time when you're sorry and they and they see that you are truly
repentant america is the greatest place in the world to see that reborn that rebirth of a human
being you know and uh look i came out of prison at 40 wondering how i was gonna feed my family
and i ended up making millions legitimate so i don't i don't want to do that now if you want to
do something like this i said i'll do it with you i said i turned down chuck norris i turned down
james brew breaker who did god bruce almighty god almighty all these people ten hollywood
studios i've turned down number one because when i first started wrote my book and started telling
my story my my little kids them suffered a lot right because nobody in the neighborhood wanted
them to play with them you know it was like oh yeah people come up on my hand and say look
you can imagine who lives there now it's sad right because i remember i tell my kids when i was in
school there was this kid whose uncle was an uncle distant uncle was in the mob and nobody talked to
this kid now people find out who my kid's father is and they're popular and i'm like it's sick
yeah it's a different culture it's a different culture yeah i say we we make heroes out of
those narcos right mm-hmm you know all the netflix shows that are yeah exactly and it's all bullshit i
mean they're and i'll be honest with you i enjoyed them myself and i gotta catch myself narcos you
enjoyed that yeah because it's a lot of fiction right it's a lot of pretty but it's fun right it's
very well done yep and uh and you know and i know a lot of backgrounds i can sit back there and be
like a critic do you think it's pretty accurate because you were there not at all not not at all
well think about it there's not that many of us alive from that whole world right of course so if
there's not that many of us alive most people got who's telling narcos what really happened in 76
did they know there's two names of two people that no one has ever mentioned that were bigger than
that could buy and sell Pablo 20 times really yeah 30 times and you know so they made this whole
thing about Pablo and all that because people love that right it's fascinating you know so Pablo
went ahead and built the Robin Hood he built all cities for for a lot of poor people i read his
brother's book a long time but his brother said that he made us all paid for the freaking building
of the city right everybody had to pay yes you know but but he did you know and uh and and the
reason that the powers of the world come along is because of what we talked earlier about the
the the situation where that kid has no chance in life but a life of crime right so not too long ago
at angola died you saw the movie uh american made right with tom cruise no okay i haven't seen that one
it's about this guy Barry seals who was he was a cia agent they said that he worked for a cia he
was an agent and worked for the cartel but he ended up taking pictures of Pablo
and other uh other members from the median okay and and he got killed right the country
life killed the man that killed him was a friend of mine ended up becoming very close friend of
mine he died on angola not too long ago in luciana and he tells you the story he he got a degree in
architecture and he was barely making it and all his friends were out there dealing drugs with girls
and nice cars and all that they invited him one day to come and do a job with him he didn't even
know what it was the guy ends up killing somebody he ends up telling him oh this guy was a child
molester so he like here take ten thousand dollars he said but i i didn't come here to kill no one
he said yeah but you came with me and from there on he became one of the worst assassin the cartel
had killed tons of people always justified that he's killing bad people right because that's how
we do in life when we cross lines we justify we had reasons for what we do and uh so long story
finally is i was supposed to go to california like i went every month and that day i went up to my jet
and when i went to put my foot in my jet i started to throw up and i went inside the office in the
hangar and uh and i had diarrhea man and it was coming out of both ends and i was like man i was
sick i had to eat nothing i got up great i got dressed i always would have breakfast on the airplane
right because we would leave like a seven o'clock in the morning to go to california and uh so
they would always have a platter in the jet for me and uh so when i felt a little better i went out
and i did the same thing again and i i told this guy my right hand guy i'm like eddie you go
i can't go man i'm gonna shit all over this plane yeah and uh tell him i'll go next week
and uh he ended up getting murdered they were waiting for me and they murdered him
and uh at the funeral i had baptize's daughter like six months earlier and at the funeral
the little girl sitting next to me she said godfather my daddy went to be with jesus and i'm
like it was the first time since i was 10 years old that i shed a tear i said number one when will
my daughter tell that to someone i'll never see her again and number two if there is if there is
a jesus we can go in there and and i left and then i had a friend of mine that had walked away from
the marijuana business and i had a big horse opera i was making three million dollars legit
raising horses breeding horses you know i was charging i bought the best stallion in the world
paid a million dollars i was charging three thousand dollar stud fee breeding 150 mares
and then i ended up i went around we bought the best brood mares in the country so and then i had
an orange grove that was going to be making me 70 million dollars a year so i mean i was like set and
about three months past oh so i used to kid with uh with uh last was it last how'd you get out
because he used to bring his mares to breed to my stud he said well he's like being pregnant
george you are the pregnant or you're not you have to enter out right i'm like all right and rubbed it
and then the final straw was i ended up my ex-wife got top my daughter to visit and i was
not supposed to visit with her and i was partying with some movie stars in my house and uh they
called me from the gate and they ate your daughter's here so they bring her i tell the maid take her
to her room and and i'll uh i have breakfast with her tomorrow morning and when they take her to the
room she takes the room and i went back to my party and uh all of a sudden about two o'clock in
the morning i hear her knocking on the door saying daddy it's crystal it was the first time in my life
that i began to feel filthy disgusting you know a guy that people used to say that eyes ran through
my veins i couldn't care less about anything or anybody and uh i just could not open the door
because i felt here's the only thing left in my life that's pure and holy if i open the door i'm
a contaminator and i kicked the women out of the window and uh and i went to shower and i
tried scrubbed the filth off of me then i went in my sheets and i was shivering and when i thought
she was quiet i ended up uh going to get water and when i opened the door she was by the floor
crying i said enough that's done i'm gonna change my life changes today and this is the thing i
told people about change i didn't know what that meant what what what does change mean in a life
as complex as mine well all i knew is that if i'm going north i'm going to start going south
if i'm going east i'm going west first thing i did move out of miami i thought that the sun rose
and settled in miami to me miami was heaven right i had power people respected me wherever i go i
didn't have to pay for nothing because someone would pay for me and uh and i called that night i
called my mom and i said i'm done and she knew what i meant and she's like jesus heard my prayer
i'm like no no no no not to do with jesus this is crystal crystal dammit and then the next day i called
and i'm i'm out i said i didn't i didn't do nothing at that time all i did is say send the airplane
don't send it and the high payoffs i had a guy that rent the entire operation for me and i said
they come to me and they're like well how much money do you want to give you i said i don't want
nothing i kept thinking about my guys and pregnant or not pregnant so i don't want nothing i'm out
i just i said look you don't want me no more because i've lost it i lost my nerve no the truth
was i was just devastating my whole life was right and uh and i left miami didn't go back for four
years and i only 90 miles away in my ranch and i lived the life that i lived and i was happy man i
you know had tons of women got divorced uh had jets had everything you know i spent
two months in veil i spent uh summers in my house on the uh on four miles beach then uh spring i
be at the horse shows all over the country and then i be at my ranch and that's it yeah and uh how
old were you at this point i was uh i walked away when i was 29 yeah so no i was 31 i was 31 at that
time so i was 31 32 the 334 i had everything any human being this is what i tell people we
sacrificed our life because we live in a world in search of the american dream which doesn't exist
right it's of what i call the pseudo american dream the american dream the real american dream
was a world war two generation you know that work hard put their kids to school save their money
retire own one house never got divorced they had marriage problem but the worst was not an option
right they hated the war but the serve was an honor they'd rather be an hour early than a minute late
people of immense integrity that was the american dream to build this most amazing nation the american
dream today is i want two houses a bunch of cars a bunch of horse you know money that and i'm happy
the problem is most people would die in search of that dream and now realize that if you ever
reach that pinnacle like i did you find out it's nothing there it's empty i didn't realize why
hated women went the most the woman i respected the most in my life was my mother so you know and
that's why i try to tell kids today i said don't sell out there's choices and consequences there's
consequences for every choice we make that the material aspect of that like what you just talked
about it influences so much you know what i mean like society why do you think today that
material stuff like that because you mentioned even in your book that you guys
you and your family would drive around rich neighborhoods and admire the houses and the
cars like that and you thought that that was the main thing you were striving for that was
your motivation to get money to buy that stuff and it seems like so much stuff especially like in
media today that's what drives kids is that material aspect of it to motivate them to get from point
A to point B yeah and it is because we're inundated with it from the moment we wake up right we are
told if you have this you're going to be happy if you have this basketball shoes that cost 125
even though you live in the ghetto you're going to be happy you're going to be somebody your
identity is identified with things with material things right we don't realize that we come into
a world with an emptiness inside of us and society is quick to tell you i can feel it for you george
oh you like the car oh what was your favorite corvette buy every single model color they come out
which i did and you'll be happy yeah you're happy for a moment but then you're empty again oh women
who can be happy with one woman have three four of them go to bed when i got married to my wife
when i gave my life to god i'm an extremist right i don't know how to live halfway i'm like really
really bad i'm really really good you're all in or all in or i don't understand about lukewarm
you know when i became a christian i became celibate now i'm a here's the guy that went to bed
every day of his life with minimum two women yeah and different women all of a sudden i become
celibate for seven years till i meet my wife and you know you know what my prayer was for the two
years when we were engaged can i have sex with just one woman that was my prayer because i didn't
think i could because that's how you demoralize yourself that's how that's how sin or bad choices
or or habits or addictions are right look the problem is not cocaine alcohol any of that
none of that yeah pornography all of those are nothing but medicine to try the society tells
you listen you're empty go get drunk you'll be happy you know do drugs right so when you go
just start drinking you don't drink a gallon of vodka right you're gonna die right you start a
little bit a little bit before you know it you drink a gallon of vodka you're passing out and
then you wait till next week same thing pornography you know same thing with any with drugs you don't
shoot an ounce of heron you'll be dead right there yeah right and and and we cross lines lines that
we never think we could cross right and we cross them and when we cross them we feel bad and then
we cross them again we don't feel as bad like first time i cheated on my wife i couldn't sleep
for two nights second time i think i only miss sleep one night third time it was automatic that's
what i'm supposed to do an academy in the cartel we're faithful to death i would die for you right
i remember getting a call from the guy that i left in charge of everything when i finally retired
they were going house to house looking for him to kill him i was eight blocks away from him in my
house two o'clock in the morning and literally it was so bad that people were knocking on the house
to see where he hid he called me i didn't have time to call a bunch of people i got on my car
and i drove in the sidewalk i got shot 28 times where my car looked like a strainer and i didn't
even get a scratch but i would die for him right because i felt that like i told everyone that
worked for me no one gets killed for telling the truth but what happens is that the economy is
we're super loyal to each other but you just can't have one woman you're not a real man
you got to have two three mistresses so am i faithful or am i not faithful i can't be say
i'm a man here i'm faithful here and i'm a cheat here you either cheat or you're faithful right
and that's how all of life is and for me that emptiness i mean you end up having so much money
i ran one time so i had a sofa that was catty corner imagine that sofa there catty corner
and i'm sitting there in that sofa and in that corner my housekeeper comes and says i haven't
slept behind there you know in a couple weeks since you're here in your office but you might
moving the sofa so i can sweep and i'm sure i moved the sofa and there's a bag with seven
hundred thousand dollars i didn't even know who the hell dropped it there i didn't even know
how long it been there or what it was doing there that's how much freaking money we had
you know we're doing 50 million dollars a month in 77 you know and uh so money is not
what motivates you now power is very addictive when people say do you miss your life i said oh
shit especially when i fly coach of course i miss my life but i don't miss the consequences
of my life the emptiness of my life or what traded for how i felt and how i feel now and the meaning
i have and the purpose i have for my life and what i know what i was created for but power
is what i do every day still miss and that's why you see multi-building and sell everything
to become a politician right because that power is so addictive man that power that especially
when i came out or out of the world and someone would do something to me and i would sit back and
i say you know that son of a bitch if he thought about doing that forget about doing it thought
about it he would hung himself and now they do it like so she's a christian he's not gonna do nothing
you know and uh you know i needed anything i remember going to concerts and sitting like
right there in the front without even paying for the ten dollar seats you know you live that and
you can get whatever you want and and you can buy whoever so very very addictive but it's so empty
and and what happens it eats you up inside you know and uh my life had meaning that they
are walked after i forfeit all those millions and i walked into that cell in mobil alabama
and i remember another image saying milky way milky way milky way i'm like what the hell is
milky way and this guy said i said dude what's the big deal about a milky way he's like he's like
oh they only get him every two weeks i say how much are they a dollar i had not had a meal
in two days because i was arrested in springfield every time they moved me from one place to the
other was doing meal time oh my god so i missed all those meals i was dying for the milky way
and i sat there in that steel bed and i said to myself damn two hours ago i was a multi-millionaire
and i don't have a freaking dollar to buy milky way unbelievable and then but i felt that for the
first time in my life my life had meaning yeah i was created for something much greater than what i
had sold out to and i had taken the shortcut and i had taken the easy road not the easy road the
fast road because people say oh you know you were a millionaire because you were drug dealer i said
yeah i was in prison with three thousand dead broke drug dealers i was the only one who had a lot of
money so no you're not a miracle you're a drug dealer yeah it's fast money but it's not easy money
every other drug dealer wants to kill you every law enforcement in the world wants to put you in
jail everything against you is against all odds so there's nothing easy about any of it i mean
literally we were five minutes off mark on any smuggling run if we could lose the load and people
go to jail or die so i mean everything i was like clockwork so you know and uh and then when i realized
that you know yeah i might not have money to eat but you know i'm not empty no more i believe that
i was created for a greater purpose and and god will reveal that purpose to me eventually
and i can take this horrific life i lived in this horrific choices and the consequences i paid
because i was asked recently do you do what you do to pay for the wrong you did i said no there's
nothing i can do to pay for the wrong i did i know the wrong i did i should deserve to die in prison
but the truth of the matter is that god had mercy but i paid in unbelievable ways
i do what i do because i feel that that's my mission to make a difference in the world
because i believe one person in god is a majority and if you look at every great movement in life
hasn't been done by a lot of people mother theresa changed the world and was just a simple nut in
calcutta gandhi you know all those people just people that felt that they could do something
they didn't need a bunch of people and look i said if at the end of the day if i just changed that one
kid that write me a letter the other day from prison been in prison for six years he's 19 years old
and he's like i'm gonna give it a shot now you know i'm gonna change my life just because he
read that this little simple book yeah you know yeah and uh and you know we've sent 14 000 of those
books this year as of june right now to prisons all over america my mission to send send a million
my mission is to call attention to this war on drugs and to tell people rise up don't burn the
cities burn government not with a torch but with your vote right you know elect people that will
care about the communities and you that we that have made it we people of color that have made it
you michael jordan you cow cow lee urban all you guys that are now giving millions well you know what
it's never too late but let's go and change our community let's do like lebron james and change the
acre acre acreance of the world and change all those cities and you watch how those kids that were
destined to be in prison for the rest of their life and die and your dollar and my because this is
the funny thing about this drug war all this bullshit yeah prison incarceration yeah i mean
what what are we 14 percent of the prison's population we have 26 percent of all the prisoners
of the world what are we guess what oh it's government my bullshit is your tax dollar mine
so we can give the government money for this bullshit and we cannot american cannot have
health care right can have the kids are graduating with a mortgage without owning a home you know
so that's how that's how we burn things without a vote because the end of the day look and at the
same time not all politicians are corrupt not all politicians are evil there's a great man
and great women that feel a calling to serve but a lot of them are a lot of them are crooks yeah you
know and and they're there let's have term limits man you get to serve one time get the hell out
federal elections they're going to pay for everybody's election everybody gets the same
amount of money so so that the guy that can raise a billion cannot beat the guy that can only raise
100 000 so that then people can run for office and not be indebted to the war machine why are we
spending so much money in nuclear weapons when we realize no one's going to drop a nuclear bomb
but look at the virus man shut down the whole world think about that so we got to wake up
and when we make it we can't abandon those left behind see look at what cubans did in miami
we we were a minority here we were we were as discriminated as anybody ever was we didn't
burn the city down we got we united we united yeah and my dad made me go to the same dentist
that was our dentist in cuban and though all he had is a freaking drill that his wife was either
with the pedal pedaling to get that thing running no novocaine he put a block of ice
and that was anesthesia but that was our dentist and we kept our money in our community and well
look what miami is now it's hard to consider i mean it's hard to think about uniting when all
the politicians are are incentivized to divide everybody and media today look at media right
it's crazy yeah you know just for the hell of it i'll turn on cnn for 10 minutes and i'll turn on
fox for 10 minutes they're talking about opposite extremes of the world now somewhere in the middle
lies the truth or whatever they're saying you know and it's crazy half the country
have the country loves somebody the other half hates somebody and i thought that this virus was
going to unite us as a nation because we realized our lives were intertwined we're more divided
than the ideology of it exactly exactly exactly no matter what the president look i didn't vote
for the president i didn't vote for the other one but i'm gonna tell you something he's my president
and i and i don't like a thousand things that he does for many reasons all right but
he successes mine why the hell do i want him to fail i didn't vote for obama either as a matter
of fact honestly to be transparent i bet this friend of mine five thousand dollars twice that
america would not elect a black man really so i was happy when he got elected i've been a republic
on my life right because but not the republicans of now or i'm a social conservative i believe in
small government i believe in family values you know i believe in in life but at the same time
i believe in all life so when my catholic brothers i'm a catholic fight for pro-life
and anti-abortion my question is why are we not fighting for that poor immigrant child
in the borders in a cage we only want to fight for the one not born why don't we fight for
the women that find no alternative but to get an abortion no woman wants to get an abortion
you know but when you're barely making it or whatever circumstances in life are
why do we have to go to russia and china to adopt a child when women here you know we can't
adopt one in the us you know yeah so it's it's all it's all out of out of control but our vote
matters lies matter everybody's lies matter and and it's true the laws are made so that african
americans and latinos will go to jail and and it was when i was in prison african americans and
latinos were 40 percent of the prison population whites were 60 now whites and african americans
are identical and if you add african americans and latinos then you know what you got 70 percent
of the prison population why so why were we not fighting for that why we did not stop those laws
that said we're going to keep you safe for bullshit you're going to keep me safe by destroying
communities you know lacking up kids that are not criminals yeah yeah they committed an offense
everyone needs to pay but you're right the bigger i can for fifty million dollars to the government
get ten years i didn't say i get ten i got ten years because of the money i'm not saying that
but the big the big guys all they sit back there is just tell them people they know a lot people
tell huh so they can reduce their sentence reduce the sentence reduce the sentence and prison are
full of nobody 16 17 18 year old kids doing life working the kids are going to become an animal
an animal do we care no we got private prisons that are as corrupt as anything is and uh and
that's that's how we change the world you know we change the world with our votes we change the
world by changing our communities realizing that listen right now you got all this corporation
giving money to uh african-american movement and it's great i'm so glad finally they're doing it
but i bet i would bet how many of them are really doing it because they feel it deep down inside
but it doesn't matter as long as they give us what matters right yeah they're doing it for their
own gain for their own side exactly right so roger goodell right now is apologizing for how
did he destroy copper next life because the guy all he did was neil he's always jumping on the band
wagon right of course he didn't say shit right now exactly right now he'd be freaking crucified
right so they're all hypocrites you know i love michael jordan right because i think he's probably
the greatest athlete ever was but freak michael you could have given that money a long time ago
why now because now it's popular we're all banding together you know a lot of major
stakes in prisons too no no no no he's i heard that he does no if people gamble as much as he does
yeah but the thing is he's got so you know michael's a good guy man look like like one guy said if michael
joined gambles a million dollars like you're not ten dollars so he does you know he's too proud to
gamble on his team you know he's just the greatest athlete man he just he was unbelievable i admire
him tremendously but you know when you got all this money man you can't you gotta look at the guy
left behind you know do like lebron he moved into brendwood brendwood in in california rich
mega rich multimillionaire houses all white he's lebron james he's gonna be a septic he's lebron james
not that he's gonna be liked no no no you know but that's the world that's the world we live in
and we have to be real about the fact that since the time of abraham you know we always have one
human being the spicy another human being and that's not going to change no matter how many
cities we burn or nothing but that shouldn't be our focus yeah it's good like van jones said we're
raising awareness more people are talking about it and hopefully people would have greater people
of color will have greater opportunities but the truth of the matter is you know how you get the
greater opportunity when you get educated and when you make them pick you right you know when i got
the high scholarship at loyola it wasn't because i was hispanic like the other uh student said
oh he's affirmative action no i got it because i almost have perfect score my gres and 4.0 in my
masters and because i had written five papers and published them already in a master's program
where none of them had so yeah i don't believe in luck i think luck is preparing yourself for
the right opportunity at the right time if someone says right now george i'm going to give you
air force one all you gotta do is fly it to cam david man what a lucky guy because i can fly air
force one but if they tell me to fly you know uh uh a high performance meridian i can because i have
a pilot license so oh i'm lucky no no there's no luck you know luck is now you position yourself
we could be in caution man no father you know the guy becomes one of the most renowned surgeons
in america did he get the jalta he did he get to separate those twins because he was black
no because he was the brightest african-american did obama get electrical he was black no because
he was brilliant right you know did he get the first african-american uh head of the hardware
review because he was black now now we we have to fight twice as hard as others i'll tell you that much
to be in the same category but so what fight you know show the world that what you got you earned it
and uh and the sad part is that we are leaving a whole community of kids behind that have no chance
no chance man i see them coming to play i used to cry you realize that 70 percent of all this
african-american kids coming to prison couldn't even read or write and so what i did i created a program
in the education department to teach them to get a g ed to so at least they have a high school
diploma you should see how proud you see how hard they work for it why because somebody believed in
them that's all kids need man all kids need ever hamlin can say a child will be your next president
your next bachelor your next lawyer your next congressman the fate of humanity lies in the
hands of our children think about those words the fate of humanity look at where humanity is going
right now because we're not educating our kids land america perfect example horrific education
program you know why because the dumber you keep the people the more controllable they are
you can't control an educated person so let's rebuild our communities yeah let's fight prison
reform let's fight social justice reform you know and say enough is enough and then we
start to begin to change the world and if all we do is we're changers don't watch cnn and fox
no don't watch them people you know uh want to do with the president the other one hates the president
no look yeah i don't like everything he does and i like something that he does because you know you
gotta be impartial i just can hate the guy because oh i'm a democrat i just can't right there's nothing
right and whatever he's doing is all wrong right no he don't and at the other day the bottom line is
you don't like him vote him out but why while he's involved in reform because his success is yours
i don't know if you figure that out or not yeah so you know and it's we all do something wrong but
hey i wouldn't want to be president no i don't know i don't know you know i don't know who would
especially him he had the he had the life before he decided to become president yeah i mean he would
love other people hate him love them yeah right because they got i mean i love them man because
they got we're going hours turning he would be cool yeah say crazy stuff you know i didn't like his
position against hispanics and that threw me off but you know no it's perfect i am by no means
man my wife was to just look at me for my faults we won't be married 25 years well that's amazing
man you have your message and your story is extremely powerful and thank you so much for
coming on here and and sharing it with everybody um let everybody know where they can find your book
and where they can find you online your website your social media yeah if they go to my web page
whorehead val desk j or g e uh val desk phd.com uh val desk with an s and you sign on to our
community they'll get a free copy of my book my latest book uh you can go to my youtube channel
and subscribe uh everything we try to do is to make a difference the books that we sell
none of the money comes to me i wish you didn't know it goes to uh to send it to a prisoner
so that they would find a different alternative to life and at least if nothing else
find hope in a hopeless situation so uh we have a youtube channel we have a podcast uh i just came
up with a journal which i think is my greatest work i mean i spent half of my life doing my
psd dissertation three people read it and uh called uh narco mindset journal and uh you can go to
narco mindset dot com and what it is is in my son my 16 year old son asked about he was 16
when he was really messed up with drugs he asked me to about a year ago said that
he's super successful now on his way to become a millionaire married little daughter his own home
people can't believe that he was addicted to drugs when he was young not addicted but he was
messed up with drugs anyway came to live with me said that why don't you write a journal that
people can look at the principle you've given me throughout life integrity and uh into action
so every week it's a 12 week so i i pick a subject of the things that are most important
and i end up with a code at the end so i say like win win for like proactive i said why i never lost
a gram of cocaine never lost a load why because i was so anal about and obsessive about being proactive
i looked at every little detail that could go wrong from the engine to the mechanic uh i never
had a pilot from the United States go by himself because why well what if there was an operation
going where else would he land i would bring a columbian pilot why did they were following here
and he could tell him where he was going so i was always very meticulous so i talk about that because
america is the most reactive society in the world right we we don't know about how many times you
hear i never thought my child would commit suicide really or maybe he just never looked and uh so i
wrote i write those those items and then you apply i apply them to your family your work
and uh and your personal and how in 12 weeks you change your mindset where he says the mindset
that i had to overcome tortures to overcome changes in jail to lose everything i have to
build a multimillion dollar drug empire and then to build a multimillion dollar company so i just
finished writing that and i'm really happy about that because it'll help people change their mindset
why look at this virus as a joke why am i not worried about none of it well i take the precautions
right i wash my hands you know one thing you worry but at the other day if i live i live for
jesus if i die i go with jesus so you know i thought i would be there by 20 so your days are marked so
i'm not worried i'm gonna live life i live life as if today's my last day every day i do the best
i can every day i love my kids i invest in my kids lives uh you know and uh and that's the mindset
so we're living in fear you know i live with love i don't i don't know fear and the word doesn't
exist i don't know the word i can't do something i i think my word is how can i do it yeah then
the news and the the media panic about the virus is sort of like you said it's a reaction people
want to be reactive to it instead of proactive about it like you said like be proactive and and
take care of your health before something like this happens and said now everything's a panic
now you guys have to all do this exactly and the percentages of people in this country that are
obese and and that is the problem learn from it learn from it take care of your health yeah a friend
of mine says you know you you're putting other people's risk alive i said look you feel that you
could be a risk yes then don't go out and don't come around me exactly but i don't feel i'm a risk
so let me live my life yep i don't want to be locked down i've been locked down too many years
you know yeah i'm not gonna do some stupid we more people died of influenza why are we not worried
that a drunk diver is someone's gonna get out there drunk driving killed 50 000 people why do we
don't we stop driving cars yeah you know no you gotta live life man and uh and do the best you can
i mean you don't throw yourself in front of a train you know you don't put yourself in a position
of danger and uh you don't hang around with the wrong people and uh and you try to do the best
you can every day to become just a little better man a little better husband a little better father
and uh i did another day if the skills you hope that the skills are on your behalf if they're not
listen if there's a heaven great but like i used to tell my muscle friends listen if there is no
heaven i don't lose shit i'm gonna live a good life i'm gonna help everybody and when we get
out there we're gonna all be dust like you said we're gonna be but if there is man are you willing
to gamble with it that's a great way to look at it man you know that's a beautiful way to look at it
thanks Danny i appreciate that i'll link all your stuff below okay and thanks again
