Hello world, Cullen Hoback is a documentary filmmaker who is responsible for the new HBO
series titled Q Into The Storm. Cullen spent three years filming behind the scenes with
the guys responsible for the website where Q posts. Q Into The Storm is about a bitter
rivalry, the origins of QAnon and who is behind the operation. It's also about free speech
and pigs. The series examines the connection between QAnon, President Trump, and political
and ex-military operatives. It also explores QAnon's influence on American culture and politics
and probes the consequences of unfettered free speech permeating the darkest corners of the
internet. I highly recommend listening to this one from start to finish. It's packed with gems.
Please enjoy this gripping podcast with Cullen Hoback.
This is going to be the most high production value Zoom podcast I've ever done, I think.
You know, if I can't set up a decent AV set up on my end, what good am I?
I would have been way cooler to have you here in person, but this is cool too because I think
this works as well because this is a common way you interview people on your documentary.
Well, usually what would happen is I would interview somebody through Skype or Zoom or
whatever, you know, whatever tool they prefer beforehand. And then if it makes sense, you know,
at the end, like, okay, like, you got a sense who I am, vice versa, there's more to talk about,
you know, and then I would fly out and do the interview in person. That of course changed
during COVID and I couldn't get to Japan to film with Ron. So, you know, I would have, I really
didn't want to do that interview over Skype or whatever. I wanted to bring up my sort of list
of reasons as to why I could make a strong case that he's Q in person. But anyway, if that had
happened, he probably wouldn't have slipped up in the same way and wouldn't have the ending that I do.
Right, right. Well, it's fascinating. That is one of the best documentaries I've seen
in a long time. I mean, everything, everything about it. I was fascinated by it. I told all
my friends about it, like everything from just like even the intro to it, to the way you did some
of those interviews with people that wanted to remain anonymous and you animated that one got
to be a fly. I mean, just everything about it is so detailed, so much attention to detail.
Yeah, it's like a twitch, a twitching cicada, like the puzzle moving in the background. Yeah.
Well, thank you. Yeah. I mean, there were so many things like that when I was recording or
just audio or when I was in Italy and I wanted to represent Luther Blissett in,
you know, with some kind of, in some sort of visual way where I was shooting background plates,
knowing that I was going to want to animate that in the future. But I had,
but I didn't know how I was going to financially do it because that kind of stuff costs a lot of
money. So, you know, the whole time I was in production, it was all independent. So, you know,
I was just kind of imagining that at some point in the future, I would get the resources
necessary to tell the story that I was hoping to. So, I was kind of gambling along the way that
shooting background plates in a situation like that, I'd be able to later animate it. And,
you know, it worked out, but there was no reason to believe at the time that it would have.
You know, HBO didn't come on to queue into the storm until September of 2020. So, the two years
before that, it was just mostly flying solo. Wow. How long after HBO came on, how much more work
did you have to put into it after that? Well, I mean, shooting was about 95% done at that point.
Obviously, I had to do the follow-ups with Ron, shot at the queue convention in Arizona and then
went to January the 6th with Jim. But that's when we were doing the majority of the post-production
on the series. So, I mean, the series hadn't been edited. We didn't start editing until October.
So, the show itself was constructed in about four months' time in post-production. So, we had to
scale up massively almost overnight. And that kind of production schedule for editing an entire
documentary series that's this complicated. I mean, we just had a remarkable team, but it was
just crushingly difficult for everyone involved. I don't think anyone, including HBO, had ever
done anything on a timeline like that to deliver a doc series. I had done some editing prior to it.
I had cut about 80, 90 minutes of scenes, and that's what I took out to HBO. And I said,
here's what I think it's going to look like. But obviously, even those scenes changed along the way.
I'm so interested in what that process is like, because I've been a part of that process before
trying to shop shows and documentaries. And when you're putting all your time, your mindset is,
I'm completing this project, whether HBO or anybody comes through and finances it or not.
Like, when you're going into, obviously, you're in the process, you have someone that's helping
you shop it to these to these buyers, and you have some sort of like packaged sort of synopsis
or sizzle about what you're doing, or how did that whole process go? Yeah, it's always, I mean,
it's always a little bit different. We had above average security concerns for this project, you
know, we're dealing with a lot of people who are world-class hackers, whether it's, and you know,
I was filming with people on both sides. So you have who are trying to sort of destroy the other
side, whether it's the guy who, you know, claims he was the founder of Anonymous, who was going after
Jim and Ron, or by his verse, I mean, Ron, you know, has his own hacking skills,
you know, running H&N. And of course, Fred also has some skills and resources he can tap. So
when we were taking it out, I had to, we had all kinds of security protocols in place to try to
protect the footage, but we also, taking it out, I had to also protect the material. So I couldn't
pitch it in the same way I would normally pitch a show. So I put together secure iPads to present
that were, where I took out all connectivity to the internet. And so the only way that you could
see the footage that we had constructed was by watching one of these iPads, you know, so that's
how you would see the scenes. And I had also just built the story around that. So I had written
what I thought would be the six episodes when I took it out to HBO. And I didn't take it out to
HBO by myself. I mean, it was, in the run up to taking it up to HBO, I knew that I needed help.
I needed a, you know, a 10,000 pound gorilla in my corner. And the reason that I thought that was
because, you know, Q had become such a big story by the summer of 2020 that there were lots of
documentary filmmakers with big names who were pitching a Q project at that time. But I knew I
had the real story in the bag at that point. I just needed to get it, I needed to get it in front
of the right people and have someone like Adam McKay in my corner. And Adam McKay is specifically
who I sought out. I had no relationship to him whatsoever. I basically asked everyone I know,
everyone I'd ever met at a film festival along the way, like, do you have any kind of connection to
Adam McKay? Because I was convinced that he was really going to understand what I was doing with
this story, the tone, the style, and the importance of it. He had done The Big Short, which is one of
my favorite films of all time. I mean, he, before that, he had had, you know, Saturday Night Live,
I think he did like, you know, he did Step Brothers films like that as well. So he had a background,
it was sort of a mixture of comedy, and then also something like The Big Short, which is
humorously tackling an incredibly complicated subject. So I, Hook and Crook got one of these
iPads in front of him, and he responded right away. And I knew he had a deal with HBO as well,
which is where I wanted to place the series more than anywhere else, because I knew that they're
very filmmaker friendly. And that turned out to be the case. So, you know, a series of small
miracles, like, I honestly, to this day, it seems impossible to me that all of that worked out.
And that we were able to get it done on such a crazy timeline. And I couldn't have had a better
partner than an HBO. I mean, they really knew, they really let me tell the story I wanted to tell
here. And we're good creative partners as well. I don't know what it might have been like with,
with like a Netflix or something like that. But historically, HBO has been sort of the
bastion for, for controversial or difficult topics in the documentary realm.
Yeah, yeah, HBO really is the holy grail of that kind of content, you know, any kind of content,
as far as stuff that kind of like teeters on the edge, like something like QAnon would.
And when you talk about those encrypted iPads, were you concerned, like when you,
when you were trying to show people this footage, or communicate with these networks,
were you concerned about people like Ron Watkins, or Fred Frederick Brennan, Brennan,
somehow getting ahold of it? And what, what were you actually afraid of?
It's hard to know what the exact threat model really was, who was working with whom, you know,
were there, were there, you know, government subcontractors, or,
or, or people who had access to, you know, hacking tools or whatnot, who might want to know what
any of these sides were doing. So I was trying to protect everyone from everyone,
and, and minimize the possibility of, of, of any kind of a leak, because I took a position
of neutrality in this. So I wasn't, I wasn't concerned about one party more than the other,
I was concerned about all of them almost equally, because I just didn't know what, what the,
what the real risk was in that, in that scenario. And I wasn't even sure if it was a really a
matter of the characters so much as other entities who might be interested in,
where in the footage that I had gathered along the way, right, you know, maybe state sponsored
entities. So at what point from when you began following this, this QAnon movement, did you
decide I need to make a documentary about this? I decided fairly early on. It was about
nine months into Q. I was aware of QAnon peripherally, just because I'm on Reddit,
I wasn't a Chan user at all. I was aware of what the Chans were, but I hadn't ever spent
any time there. And it was when Reddit banned QAnon, like the Great Awakening subreddit,
that's what piqued my interest. I was like, well, what's something that's, that's
so dangerous or problematic in the minds of, you know, Reddit, that it needed to be banned?
And might this be a sign of things to come? Might this be sort of where the internet is
headed? Are we going to see more of this? Because usually it's the more extreme,
disfavorable things in society when it comes to speech that tests whether or not we have a right.
So that's what got me paying attention. And of course, I was just drawn to the mystery of
who was behind all of this. And, and I thought, you know, that it, that unmasking whoever Q was,
or what the organization was, whatever the structure looked like behind it,
might bring what in 2018 still seemed like a game to its logical conclusion.
When you, when you began like through, through this whole process of producing this
documentary and spending all your own money, like flying everywhere to interview these guys,
you know, Japan and where, where did Ron's dad live in the Philippines? The Philippines,
like spending all this money, like, well, the secret was Scott cheap, Scott's cheap flights.
So I would wait until there was an airfare, E R R O R airfare, you know, sometimes the airlines
make a mistake. So like, I flew to South Africa for 500 bucks. My, I don't think I ever spent more
than $600 round trip flying to Manila. I use air miles a few times to get to back and forth from
Japan, but I don't think I ever spent more than $800 on a ticket round trip for Japan either.
So part of my, part of my strategy was timing things out based on when I could get cheap flights
to go to these places. You know, when I would use air miles is when a big event happened and
suddenly I just had to be there the next day. But yeah, so that was, that was part of my strategy.
And honestly, the majority of my budget was, was travel. Like I obviously wasn't paying myself.
When I was traveled to these places, for the most part, I was shooting by myself in the Philippines,
I usually had at least one, usually one person there helping me in Japan, I was by myself.
So it just sort of depended on the environment. And if I, if I needed somebody on the ground
there who could also help fill me as I, as I kind of became a character in the story as well.
And that was, that was, it's never really by choice. I kind of resist being in these projects, but
but as playing the surrogate for the audience, there comes a certain point at which, in a story
like this, where my involvement just sort of becomes unavoidable in some way, shape, or form,
even though I try to maintain as neutral of a position as possible. I mean, obviously the
situation with Fred, when he needed to flee the Philippines, you know, that, that sort of
the need to help him in that situation overruled the neutrality principle I had in place.
And, you know, because above that is minimize harm. So minimizing harm in that situation meant
getting on a plane to both document him, but physically assist him as well, because of his
condition. Fred, Frederick Brennan, you know, he, so, so in the series, Frederick Brennan,
who I was just describing, he created eight Chan while he was coming down from mushrooms,
when he was, I believe he was about 18 at the time. He has brittle bone disease,
you know, just a fall could kill him like out of bed. So, you know, he's very fragile. And he
had started to part ways with the current owner operators of eight Chan, Jim and Ron Watkins.
And part of what I document in the series is this unraveling of the relationship that then
turns into an all out rivalry where they're essentially trying to put each other in prison
on a global scale. And Fred is trying to take down eight Chan at all costs. Eight Chan is,
of course, the site where Q was hosted, where Q was anonymously posting these cryptic messages.
And Fred, Fred took it upon himself to try to destroy the thing that he created. And so I,
you know, I had cameras in the middle of that, and I was bouncing back and forth between both
sides. And what you see later in the series, Jim and Ron Watkins come up with a strategy to
get him arrested in the Philippines for what's called cyber libel. In this case, Fred had called
Jim Scenile on Twitter. But he had been levying a lot of attacks, but that was the one that
they decided could stick. And, you know, it's kind of, the justice system, as I think all of
these characters would admit in the Philippines, isn't exactly fair. It can be bought. And I don't
know exactly if that's what happened or not. But the cyber libel charge looked like it was going
to stick. Fred had a, Fred was going to, you know, be brought in by the police. And he messaged me
saying that he needed to flee the Philippines so that he wouldn't go to prison. And with his condition,
he would have likely died in prison for that. So there's no way I could let someone like that
and his condition for something they said on Twitter have, you know, have a death sentence.
So I got on a plane and kind of documented his escape as he left his family and everything
else behind. You know, and that's just one piece of this story. But in the series, what you see,
the rivalry also reveals a lot about who's behind QAnon. And it reveals a lot about
the site and the culture from which Q was born, which was, you know, first 4chan but then 8chan,
then 8kun. Yeah, it's such a, number one, it's just such an incredible cast of characters. The
characters that you, that just happen to run this weird dark world of, of the internet are just so
fascinating. Like Jim Watkins and Ron Watkins are such oddballs. They come off so,
just so quirky and odd in the, in the show. I don't know if that's how they're like in real life,
but. Oh, they're, they're more quirky and odd in real life. You know, I, they were on their best
behavior when the cameras were on. So if that's any indication. But yes, they were, that is,
that is true. They, they, they kind of revel in, in being as absurd as possible.
You know, trying to be as offensive as possible, usually to make each other laugh.
But some, you know, it's kind of like, you say awful things long enough and then you don't even
know what you believe or don't believe anymore. You lie often enough, you don't know what's true
and what's not or what you believe or what you don't. So, and I don't know that Ron can even
keep track of all of his, his lies at a certain point. You know, what he's told me, what he hasn't
told me. I mean, the first time I went to be with them, that, you know, film with Jim and Ron
Watkins and the Philippines, I don't know if they were expecting that I was going to ask as much
about Q as I did. You know, the next time I filmed with them, it was clear that they had
communicated behind the scenes and then their stories changed and suddenly they knew less
than they knew the time before, which is just even more suspicious. But when I went there to
film with these, as you say, pretty eccentric characters, I didn't think that they were behind
Q at the time. I just knew that Q was posting on their website. So if anybody knew who was behind
the operation, it would have been those who had the technical data. But after filming with them
that first time, it was just like, fuck, these guys are suspicious. I find myself in the position
of trying to explain to a lot of people that I know what QAnon is. And I sometimes have a hard
time like coming up with that explanation. Do you have like a very precise boil down
summary of what Q is? Well, I should have that at this point. You know, what I would say,
the way I would describe it, is QAnon, so most QAnons would tell you that they believe that
there is this anonymous insider known as Q, who they think is close to Donald Trump, leaving these
cryptic messages through 4chan and 8chan using these fringe message boards on the edge of the
internet to get the secret truth out about this top secret plan that involves Donald Trump and
all of this complicated cast of characters who are going to take down the deep state and this
evil global cabal of Satan worshipping pedophiles. And that Q is leaving these anonymous insider drops
to help the Anons along the anonymous people online who are following Q to figure out like
the details of this sort of top secret plan. And Q uses all kinds of keywords and phrases in order to
keep the audience engaged, asks a lot of questions rather than making statements.
And this is part of the game that Q is playing in order to basically let the Anons who are on the
chance come up with new theories as to what all of that means. And so on a long enough timeline,
what ends up happening is QAnon becomes this massive big tent for basically every theory or
conspiracy theory or whatever you want to call it over time. And not just theories from the past,
but it's generating theories in real time. And so if you were to talk to someone who
is a QAnon follower or a QAnon believer, they wouldn't necessarily agree with another QAnon
follower or believer. They would agree on with that first thing that I said, the plan and the
taking down of this global cabal and that there's some government insider who's involved, but they
wouldn't agree on who they thought Q was. They wouldn't even agree on the same theories necessarily.
So it's really more of like a big tent for believe whatever the hell you want as long as you believe
in this sort of core concept and don't question Q, which has always been the most baffling part of
it to me. It's like, you know, one of the mantras that Q would repeat was question everything.
Well, that's a reasonable thing, I guess. But you should be able to question something
pretty simple like, okay, is the earth flat around? Well, that's a dumb thing to question. I can
figure out pretty quickly based on science and things. Okay, let's check that one off. Earth is
round, fine. But, you know, what people, what happened pretty quickly was that people stopped
questioning Q and it became a problem to question Q or question the narrative or the beliefs around
this. So it wasn't question everything anymore. And it became more dogmatic as a byproduct of that.
It seems to me that the whole QAnon movement was like, it was an idea that was like a mind virus
that infects vulnerable people who have no sense of community, who generally they're lonely, they
lack a sense of purpose, or maybe they maybe suffer from depression, etc, etc. And
and basically that equates to a weaker immune system when it comes to detecting bullshit.
And that's kind of like, you know, if it were a biological virus, they would get sick from it.
Is that sort of accurate at all? I mean, that's a great analogy, I think, a very helpful analogy.
Yeah, I had said a little bit ago that it's kind of like, yeah, the Q is like
operates similar to, yeah, like a digital virus in a way. Like an idea virus.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean, and Ron even released, seemingly released a virus through one of his
videos on his followers and they were still fine with it in the aftermath, like a couple months
ago. It's like, well, why would he be fine with that? Well, he released Q, which operated in a
very similar way to like malware. And yeah, it is it does draw in people who are more susceptible
to it. And I think what makes people susceptible to it is a distrust in the media, a distrust in
institutions, and a feeling in a sense that just they're being lied to. And so they stop, they
turn away from these sources and they look elsewhere. But the sources that they find
or QAnon is not a more reliable source. But it is more sensational, it's more exciting,
and it tells a story of, you know, heaven or hell, black and white. And it's sort of all or
nothing. It's not about the banality of evil, which isn't sexy. So it becomes about something far more
ethereal, otherworldly, more magical, more fantasy. It gives people a sense also that they have more
control in their lives, gives them a sense of purpose, and it gives them community. And I think
we also live in a society right now where, you know, people are looking for other ways to get
religious experience. You know, maybe before some of that sense of community might have been
extracted from watching a sports team. But it's almost like all of the things that would draw
people to a church before are drawing them now to politics. Like that same level of fervor and
faith is what you see in QAnon. And the same level of sort of passion and just belief,
it's like all of that kind of religious thinking is now being put in a political box. And so that's
why it does have a lot of kind of religious qualities to it as well. But the sort of red pill
that I think gets a lot of people hooked on Q in the beginning is something that it relies on a
certain amount of truth in society. You know, I think at the beginning of the plan to save the
world, it's like, you know, have you ever wondered why there's like homelessness, you know, hunger,
why you can never seem to get out of debt, why there are endless wars, right? And these are all
things that people are like, yeah, why all of that stuff? You know, which speaks to that why
institutional failure point. And then it leads people down a rabbit hole of increasingly
implausible beliefs. But the central tenet that sort of draws them in is the failures that I
think, you know, we many people are experiencing in society. If those if the institutions were
doing a better job, if the media was doing a better job, if we weren't in like a click bait
society, you know, where people were driven into echo chambers by algorithms, we the conversation
would just be be a lot different. But, you know, there's there's sort of a confluence of factors
here that have created an opportunity for something like Q. I don't think it would have
worked 10 years ago. And if I had to guess what caused all of this, if I could say, if there's
one thing that I could have go back in time and change and say, change this and we wouldn't get
to the to the point we're at now, with sort of hyperpolization where people turn to something
like Q and on, it would be online privacy, which sounds at first like it doesn't make a lot of
sense like what's the connection between those two things. But, you know, I made a film almost a
decade ago called terms and conditions may apply. And in that film, I highlighted, you know, all of
the ways in which Silicon Valley and the government were kind of working together to extract our
personal information and what the cost of that might be. And at the time, people would say, well,
I have nothing to hide. What does it matter? What does it matter if Facebook is collecting
thousands of data points on me knows my fears and my insecurities, you know, knows all knows
everything about me? What's the what's the harm of that all they're doing is, you know, trying to
sell me shoes or it's just they're just using for advertising, right? You're like, like, well,
now we know what the cost is. The cost is that all of that personal data could be used to manipulate
us to play on those insecurities to drive us towards increasingly sensational, sensational
content that reinforces our biases and and results in, I think, the kind of hyper polarized society
that we have now. And Q, that kind of the stuff that Q was doing, that would have normally just
stayed on the chance. But because it was sensational and exciting, and because there were algorithms
that could help feel it, it was like gasoline. And individuals like Ron Watkins and those who
he was coordinating with would know how to how to capitalize on that. And how to and how to
you know, it wasn't it wasn't eight chance specifically that made Q a hit. It was YouTube.
You know, it was all of these QTubers who started talking about all this wild stuff.
And it drew an audience drew in a big audience. You know, and a lot of these guys, they just
they were big fans of Alex Jones. They were kind of his acolytes, right? And they were just taking
what they had learned from Alex Jones and now repurposing that same sort of entertainment style
using using Q as as their as sort of their their daily input. And because Q would frequently,
you know, ask new questions, there would be this whole ecosystem that formed around Q.
It it gave and because they got a ton of followers almost overnight from talking about Q,
it created a functional feedback loop where a lot of people were able to profit off of off of
talking about something. And they would not have been able to be successful on YouTube otherwise.
So yeah, I mean, YouTube is is is more responsible for Q and on success, I think,
than than almost any other side out there. Really? Wow. And they've since banned all Q and on
Q and on YouTubers, right? Like Q non content. Yeah, they did. Except for your stuff. I mean,
I don't think that they should have removed. I don't think they should have removed their videos,
you know, if they want to demonetize them. So be it. But like, they're basically burning the
past. It makes it very difficult for researchers to go back and see what everyone was talking about.
You know, I think it's a convenient excuse to some extent for these tech companies to
delete all of these accounts and say, oh, look, look, we're we're such good stewards now.
Look, Coca Cola, we did it.
Yeah, so they they they wipe out they wipe out the kind of digital past that really just shows
their culpability in all of this. So really, they they're just getting rid of the evidence of their
of of of their involvement in in bolstering all of this stuff. And instead of instead of ever
offering the real solution, because the real solution undermines their business model,
which requires to extract our personal data and and amplify and and and feed based off of feed
content based off of that personal data, they'll never offer that as a solution. So now instead,
they're offering censorship and removal of content as a solution. You know, you don't
necessarily have to drive people to the most sensational shit, you can just drive, you can
just you can have a platform that lets people watch things. And it doesn't necessarily mean that you
have to, you know, drive them to that kind of content based on their biases, fears and interests
at a at a, you know, accelerated level. So you will never hear, I don't think Google sitting
in front of Congress saying, Yeah, we should get rid of data data personalization driven
algorithms. I don't think they're going to ever offer that as a solution. You know, censorship to
them is is a perfectly viable solution because they have AI that they've been working on to do
quote unquote moderation. We know and we show this in the series how ineffective that moderation
actually is, how it actually captures accounts and and videos that it doesn't that it's not supposed
to. It's very easy for people to manipulate that and to get around it. I mean, we saw that
they weren't even able to like stop the Christ Church video from being uploaded millions of
times. It only caught it maybe 80%. So the AI moderation doesn't even work, but it's being
presented as this kind of panacea. Meanwhile, if you're a startup or you're a competing company
who's saying, Okay, well, all these people have been banned off of off of Twitter. Now, where are
they going to go? Maybe they go to get her? Maybe they go to gab? Maybe they go to telegram? But
if if laws were put in place or requirements were put in place that, you know, force these
companies to do this kind of moderation, well, a startup wouldn't be able to compete. So it's
perfectly viable for a big tech company like Twitter or Google or Facebook to employ AI driven
moderation algorithms. It's very difficult for a startup to do that. So it just it allows a big
tech company like that to have more control than they do even now, because it makes it less likely
that competition would be able to rise up in that environment.
Why now the reason that they have this big drag net, right, to to pull down all this content that
doesn't supposedly, you know, comply with their terms and conditions, the reason they're doing
that is threats from advertisers, right? That's the only that's the only incentive they have to do
that. Is that am I wrong there? Um, well, there's political incentives, right? Like once you start
playing the game of of arbiter of what's true and what's not true, what's good or bad.
Um, sure, you can take down some content that that I think most people would agree they prefer not
to have on those platforms, but it also allows them to start taking down things that might be true.
You know, if there's something that's unsavory, an unsavory truth about a politician,
you know, and and that politician calls them up and says, this is fake news, this isn't true
about me. Pull this thing down. Don't let this video go up. Well, there's a obviously quid pro
quo that goes on between, um, Congress and and these and and big tech. I mean, they pay big tech
donates a lot of money to these guys. You know, it used to be cheap money or easy money to take
that didn't come with any strings to take big tech money. Um, you know, the the intel agencies
also have a lot to benefit from these from from the monitoring that goes on in these websites
and the kind of data that they're extracting as well. So, uh, okay, there's, there's, yeah, the
incentives are are there. They're endless. Another very scary thing that YouTube does as well,
you know, other than doing like takedowns or demonetizations is they do a thing, which I'm
sure you're very aware of a shadow banning content where they make it invisible in search. So
you have no idea. You have no, you get no notifications that you've been shut down
or that you've been demonetized. They literally don't do anything. They jumps. They just erase
it from search. But to you, it looks like you, the creator or the uploader, it looks like it's
still there, but no one else is going to see it. Yeah. I so I struggle a little bit with the
with the question of what these companies are required or should host, right?
On the one hand, they're private companies. And because they're private companies,
they have the right to moderate as they see fit. On the other hand, their scale is so extreme that
there's that it's just the place where everybody goes. You know, they have a monopoly on on
either video sharing or they've reached a monopoly status. And these companies
have so much control over information at this point, we have to sit back and say, well, well,
are they really just private companies who are stewards of our information and get to do moderate
at this level? Or is this something where we need to break them up? Or we need to
set it, create some new rules that create neutrality on these platforms because of their scale.
And at a minimum, if they are going to have this, this level of this sort of scale,
should we have protections in place that allow for competition to actually exist?
So right now, for instance, it's not easy to leave Twitter. Why? Because you lose your contacts,
you lose your conversations. Same with Facebook. I mean, all of these platforms,
it's very difficult to leave because they they control all of the content that you've created
or in your relationships. So one step, I think, would be data portability, you know,
basically make it very easy to leave one of these companies if you don't like their behavior.
If you don't like how they're restricting certain types of speech, things like that.
But right now, individuals don't really have any kind of meaningful choice.
It's very difficult. If you want to just leave YouTube at this point,
it's not necessarily all that easy. And something like Google, YouTube itself,
maybe is just too big. So I think we have to have the conversation of, at a certain scale point,
are they really just a private company or are they or are they kind of operating as a shadow
government in the sense that in the same way they were doing data extraction and that data
extraction was valuable for the government and they were able to take things from us directly
that a government would have never been able to take from us directly is the same thing now
happening with speech, where the government can use corporate entities as proxies to accomplish
things that they could never do directly. Like the government can't come in and say,
you can't say this, take this down, remove this. This is false. This is true. That's not allowed,
but a private company can. And since this is where conversations are happening and information is
narratives are kind of driven and information is spread,
how much influence is the government having over those conversations at this point?
So in a way, big tech is a kind of proxy for the government when it comes to regulating speech.
But right now, as the, I'm just adjusting my settings here, right now, as the law is written,
they're allowed to. Section 230, a lot of times people say, oh, well, that just means they're
supposed to treat all content neutrally. And actually what Section 230 allows is for these
companies to moderate as they see fit. And so I think the question then becomes, well, do we,
and it is the law that kind of created the internet. I mean, it's not just about moderation.
It's also what allows you or me to go on a website and post comments and to write things
anonymously. And that you can do that and you can say what you want there. And it doesn't make
that company liable for doing that. So it protects the little guy almost more than it protects the
big guy. So, you know, it's in a way, Section 230 is sort of the free speech law of the internet.
That's one of the few kind of rights that a few regulations that actually detected some rights
online. These companies wouldn't be able to exist without that law, right? Because they would just
be, they would be buried by lawsuits. Wasn't Trump trying to get rid of that and abolish that?
Trump seemed to be upset that he couldn't say whatever he wanted. And I think he didn't quite,
whoever was advising him on Section 230, didn't perhaps clarify exactly what that meant. So he's
like, I'm going to take away this thing that allows the internet to, you know, if I can't have Facebook,
no one can. If I can't have Twitter, no one can. Meanwhile, you know, Biden was coming from sort
of the opposite perspective, saying we want the internet to be a safer and happier whatever place
that has less misinformation. So we need to get rid of Section 230 so that we can have more control
over, you know, to make these companies accountable for everything that gets posted on their sites.
So they both wanted to get rid of Section 230, but for completely different reasons.
Wow. It's like they both didn't know what the hell was. Or to get rid of it and replace it with
something else, right? Yeah. You know, and I think that's a mistake. I think what we need to be
looking at is the scale of these companies, whether or not we should, how we break them up
and restoring rights online, restoring digital privacy rights that I think have the lack of which
I think have put us in this situation. And are the basically the censorship that's going on on
websites like Google, or not Google, but YouTube and Twitter, is that what spawned websites like
8chan and 4chan and 8coon? No, it's more, I mean, there have been a lot of social media companies
that have tried to go up against Twitter and Facebook and none have really managed to stick,
you know? And I think that the only reason that they're starting to find success now is because
of the banning that's happened on these more mainstream platforms. But if we thought we had
echo chambers in society before, now it's just like, here's the social media for the right and
here's the social media for the left. There's not even there's not even the cross pollination
occurring. You don't see the same amount of people having to battle it out in a comment section on
Twitter or being exposed to ideas that are different than what their assumptions may be or beliefs
may be. So just because it's been pushed somewhere else doesn't mean it's gone anywhere. It just means
that it's disappeared, it's just been pushed somewhere else. So I think a lot of people who
are on Twitter are like, oh, you know, problem solved. Like, well, actually guys, if you thought
what you consider to be a problem or speech that you don't like, that's just moved somewhere else,
you know? And by the way, those people who were kicked off of Twitter are pissed off about it,
as they should be. And they are mobilizing and they're going to be very motivated to vote in
the upcoming election and to vote for candidates that are pushing back against this. You know,
and I think that that's going to become the dominant argument in the upcoming election cycle
for any Republican candidate. It won't really, the other topics won't really even matter. It will
just be a focus on censorship. And this is something that I've seen at the conferences
that I've been to and filmed that, you know, a focus on, a focus on, on that, on, you know,
and it doesn't even matter what the other ideas are, it just matters that they can't express them.
Are there any left wing QAnons or is it, are they all right wingers? They're all Trump supporters?
No, there is a, so I don't know what the exact ratio is, but certainly there are people on the
left who follow QAnon. It's not just a right wing thing. Particularly in the last year or last
year and a half, after COVID hit, you saw QAnon move over to more of the New Age communities,
UFO communities, just communities where people are a little more conspiracy minded.
And, and also there was the whole Save the Children campaign, which, you know,
I, it's sort of QAnon kind of masked itself as just being about that using the Save the
Children hashtag. And that brought more people from the left into, into the sort of Q orbit.
And, but now QAnon has been on decline in the last, in the last nine months and not just people
who identify as QAnon, but beliefs that are associated with QAnon, that, that has been on
decline. But one of the things that Q did near the very end, right before the election,
was say there is no QAnon. There's Q and there is Anons, but there, and then there are Anons,
but there is no QAnon. And it was a, it was a tactic that has allowed those who follow QAnon to
do these kind of gaslighting campaigns or like, anytime you say QAnon now, like I've said it
a billion times on this podcast, but they would just say like, he doesn't know what he's talking
about. There is no QAnon, because Q told them to say that. So it becomes this like gaslighting
technique where anytime somebody says QAnon, then people attack. And I've actually even seen people
in the media now stop saying it. It's like, guys, like don't just cave to this nonsensical thing.
Like tons of influencers in the QAnon community wrote books with QAnon in the title, like it's
just a gaslighting technique. But the, the new flavor of QAnon that I think we're seeing emerge
now is one which is more of a wink and a nod. It's coded language, but it's obvious coded language.
It's just using all the keywords and phrases that Q would use and embedding them in campaigns and,
and posters. And if you're going to put on a conference, like there was just the Patriot
Double Down this weekend, you know, it wasn't officially a QAnon event, but all of the keywords
and phrases that Q uses were everywhere, including in all of their marketing materials.
And whether it was like, you know, where we go, when we go all or trust the plan. And then in the,
you know, their main poster image, the one that they use the most for this double down,
was two cards, like you're playing Blackjack, two cards, a queen and a seven. This is their main
image. You know, in Blackjack, that adds up to 17, which is Q. There's also a Q queen. So this is
what I'm saying when it's coded. It's like, okay, they're going to be doing, and then all of the
speakers were all the QAnon people. Ron Watkins headlined the event. So, you know, it hasn't gone,
QAnon as a movement has just changed kind of name and technique, but it's still very much alive.
And I think actually it's more well funded than before. And what we're going to see in the next
election cycle. I mean, if look, if the guy who's essentially Q can run for office, you know,
it's like having Q run for Congress, which is what Ron is doing now. He's running for Congress in
Arizona. If that can happen, we're going to see more QAnon candidates happening. And I think it's
going to be well funded. I think there's money to support this at this point. It's going to be
slicker than it was in the last election cycle with Marjorie Taylor Green got elected. And I'm
telling you, I think that the primary focus is just going to be digital censorship. And all the
rest of it isn't even going to matter. People are just going to be thinking about that one thing.
And it will be a strong argument, I think, for a lot of people on the right. I think they'll
be attracted to that. So, and maybe some on the left as well. Have you spoken to Ron? Are you
guys still friendly after you released the documentary?
We have communicated some. He sent me messages. Well, he felt the documentary was fair,
which was important to me. I wanted everybody who was in the documentary to feel that they had been
treated fair and that I had respected their intentions in any given scene. I didn't want to
make someone see. I would never want someone to watch a scene and be like, that's not what I meant,
you cut this in a way that isn't how I intended it. So I try really hard when I'm in the edit bay
to give everyone a fair shake. So I guess that was part of it. He also said, I identify more with
villains. He said, I learned a long time ago that making internet personalities larger than life
makes for a more entertaining existence. So we've done all of these things since the series came out
to basically say, yeah, I'm cute, but I'm not because I don't think that he can never fully
take responsibility for it. But he still wants people to know how smart he is and what he pulled
off. So it's kind of like he gets as close as he can to admitting it at this point and then steps
back. And that's been my impression since. And he'll go on, look, now that he's running for Congress,
the media, it's already happening. Like the amount of free press he's gotten,
you know, the media wouldn't say his name until he ran for Congress. And now he's all over the news.
And I don't mean all of the media. Many people in the media would say it, but I was surprised how
many outlets kind of dodged around even naming him. But I guess now that he's running for Congress,
it's kind of changed the rules a little bit. And, you know, he made this Rosa Park statement while
he was at the Patriot Double Down. And all of the outlets picked it up. He's already done interviews
with CNN, the BBC, Rolling Stone. Like he's all over the news now, as he runs for Congress. And
he's using the same techniques that Trump used. You know, he is essentially just saying the most
sensational shit, trolling along the way. And he knows that he knows that it'll get picked up because
it's click worthy, right? And gets shared. So he he's taking the lessons he learned from Q
and applying them for a political campaign to gain real power.
And he might win. I mean, I think he has a shot. You know, I really do. And I don't I don't know if
his I imagine his opposition right now has some sense of what they're up against, you know,
is particularly if they watch the series. But Ron has a digital army at his disposal. He's really
talented at memetic warfare. He doesn't he'll say whatever he wants, you know, make make up,
play what play whatever character he thinks he needs to at any given moment to win.
So I think that he's a he's a serious threat to who he's running against in Arizona. And
he picked the district where they had been running this whole audit thing, Maricopa County.
You know, he he he selected that specific area to to run in at this point. So
I'm trying to understand like what is this guy he doesn't seem to have a motive. He's
he doesn't seem to have any sort of real incentive to do this other than fame and
or to entertain himself. He just seems like the like the Joker just sort of seeing like what sort
of systems he could unravel. I don't think that's far off. I mean, he like, you know, he identifies
more with villains or anti heroes. I do think it's all kind of a game to him.
And I think that he's, and since he sort of exists outside of culture, in fact, he enjoys
leveraging, you know, the things that that get people upset or riled up or offend them
in order to gain more attention for himself. So I mean, what if there is anything that motivates
him that's that's an actual belief, I do think he does. I think he genuinely does care about
free speech online, if only because he he likes to be he likes it himself.
But I but I think that that is something that he he does care about the rest is is a show.
Would you vote for him?
I mean, look, I'm gonna I'm gonna chronicle this probably from afar. We'll see what happens.
But I'm just gonna I'm gonna take take a neutral position on that point.
How I mean, it is crazy. I would I would I would have stayed from commenting on that one.
It's so crazy, you know, all the coincidences are pretty undeniable. Like, you know, you
point out in the documentary how Q posts things that are almost identical to something Trump
would post on Twitter five minutes later. How would Ron have how would Ron know this kind of
stuff? Like, how did Ron essentially you say how did he get in connection with Trump and his whole
team? So what what you see in the series is that Ron obviously has Ron has vision to what's going
on behind the scenes with Q. He knew that Q was going to end on the day of the election.
It didn't exactly end. There were a couple other drops sort of after that that just a small handful
that seemed more like cover. But for all intents and purposes, it did end on that day. You know,
he and his father both described Q as kind of being a marketing campaign.
You know, he would just know things like the Q is going to go on the offense. And then lo and
behold Q says a couple days later I'm going on the offense. So I mean, there's a million clues
like this way more than I even put in the series. But at what point did Ron and his father actually
get plugged in with, you know, the the with Trump's inner circle. That's something I'm still
interested in figuring out. We know that individuals like General Flynn at least saw the power of
the Q represented. They got involved fairly early on Jerome Corsi, who took to Alex Jones.
You know, they they they got involved very early on. So there were there were sort of a
typical cast of players who gravitated towards the power of the Q represented. What makes it
difficult to parse out the network is that it is decentralized and that people
wear different hats online, you know, they use different handles, and they communicate in
decentralized fashion. And so, you know, what Ron could have been wearing any number of digital
hats when he and communicating with someone from say, like, General Flynn's team or something or
other operators working out of the US who had connections up the food chain. But in terms of
actual political power of seeing when it really seemed to switch, I don't think that that happened
until 2020. There's that call in the series where I'm on it with Ron and Jason Sullivan and Bill
Binney. And Jason Sullivan, he's Roger Stone's head of social media. That indicates that they
probably weren't working together prior to that. It sure didn't seem that way on the call.
And Jason Sullivan, you know, I mean, he has he's he's not the biggest player out there, but he had
connections to them. I mean, Roger Stone was briefly Trump's campaign manager and was an advisor,
you know, along the way. And so that's when I think what I describe is I mean, what you know,
many describe is sort of me magic. That's the moment where the sort of fantasy of Q,
the the the sort of LARP, starts to really become real, starts to yeah, just just becomes real at
that point, to some extent, you know, this idea of there of Q having a relationship to Trump's
inner circle, that we get closer to that becoming a kind of reality. And Ron would message me over
the course of 2020 saying like, Oh, look, I just got retweeted by Flynn or by Trump, or, you know,
the in order to sort of show I think the that that Q was becoming real. And at least in the in
this in the one sense of Q having some kind of access to Trump's inner circle, there being some
sort of sort of relationship there. And by the time the election rolls around, Ron sort of steps
out is from his role as the admin of Acune. And he starts doing publicly on Twitter, what he says
he was doing privately on Acune. And he gains followers very quickly, he gains more than half
a million followers using Jason Sullivan's amplification tool. And Jason Sullivan had one
goal on that call. His goal nine months earlier was to put his amplification tool, his Twitter
amplification tool into Q's hands. Now on that call, he thought Q was he didn't think Q was
necessarily Ron Watkins, he just thought that Ron Watkins would be able to help him get the tool
into Q's hands. But it sure seems like Jason Sullivan found his man when he got his amplification
tool into Ron's hands. So Ron gained a ton of power on Twitter, you know, he was getting a lot of
followers very rapidly, Trump started retweeting him, you know, and then he started, then he became
the advisor or one of the advisors to the election fraud campaign. You know, he gets in touch with
Chanel Rion of One American News. Chanel Rion gets hired by Rudy Giuliani to work for them, to work
with the Trump campaign. This is all in the deposition that recently just came out on the
lawsuit filed by Dominion against Chanel Rion and a handful of other players, Giuliani.
So Ron Watkins, who like, I don't know, read an election manual or something,
is suddenly the election voter fraud guy. There are credible experts who they could have hired
for something like this, but he was telling the story that they wanted to hear. And Ron was more
than happy to do that. So Ron is the guy who's basically just inventing the narrative that
they're running with. I'm sure there were other people advising as well, but we know with certainty
that Ron and Chanel, based on what he told me and what you can see publicly, were working together
and that Ron was her primary source on that stuff. So now Ron was really plugged in with the inner
circle because he was advising them. And since that time, he's been actively on Telegram,
pushing all of the audit stuff. He's doing on Telegram what he had been doing before
on H&N and then a Coon. But little did I know he would try to turn that into real political power
by running for Congress. And I think we're going to see more Coon on affiliated candidates. There's
already dozens of them coming into this next election cycle. Did you see Trump's new social
platform that he created? Truth? Yeah, like speak your truth. Send out your truth or whatever. Just
but don't say anything bad about Trump. I bet all of that will get banned on the truth platform.
Right. I wonder if Ron Watkins had anything to do with that.
Yeah, I am very curious what the... Ron has claimed that he is not in any kind of way been
directly communicating with Trump but that he's like one hop. So did Ron help code that?
What's his exact level of involvement with it? I don't know. Would he get involved with it?
You know, probably. But Ron, again, he's born from the chans. So he's a free speech absolutist.
And none of these platforms are free speech absolutists. They all have their respective
biases when it comes to moderation, which most people want. Most people don't want to deal with
the kind of stuff that gets posted on a site like HN. Because it's uncomfortable.
There's a lot of pretty fucked up things that get posted there. And moderators have to take it down.
I mean, they have a huge child porn problem. People post a lot of that crap there.
Fred was trying to moderate that. So the reality of an absolutist free speech website
is that there have to be moderators in place to take down crap like that. And Facebook has
the same problem. They have to take down that kind of stuff. But they allow everything on
HN that's to the limit of free speech, right? That's the absolute max of what's legal. That's
what's allowed on HN, no acoon. So of course, they're going to take down, you know, like the most
fucked up things on the internet that are illegal. Of course, they're going to take that down.
But it doesn't mean it always gets taken down immediately. And because on acoon, anyone can
create their own board, especially in the beginning, you know, they had a problem with boards getting
created where people would share that kind of content. What is the problem with those types
of boards? Like what is there? Do you see a fundamental problem with them existing?
The chans? Yeah. No, I mean, I think that obviously there's a concern with
their ability to control illegal content. But in terms of a site like, I mean, the chans don't
use algorithms. They don't, there's not the same level of amplification. And they're completely
anonymous. So we've had chans are very old, like they've been around for decades. What's new are
the algorithms. So I don't see the chans as being the primary problem. And I don't think Q would
have escaped the chans if it weren't for the algorithms. Yeah, so I don't understand. I mean,
I do understand how they function. I understand why people go to the chans. But it seems to me
like the issue with all the fucked up content that gets posted there is the anonymity.
You know, the fact that people can remain anonymous and not be responsible for anything
they post, they just want to post the most fucked up shit that exists on the planet.
Yeah, but what's wrong with what's wrong with people like people wanted to like,
that's where the internet was born was with anonymity, not being anonymous on the internet.
That's new. And I tell you what, like Facebook, man, people like, like I said, Facebook has a huge
problem with illegal content getting posted there. And someone doesn't have to be anonymous to say
like the most fucked up things on Facebook, go there, like it's a it's a trash fire. So
anonymity and anonymity is, you know, it protects, it protects whistleblowers, it protects people who
have like things about themselves that, whether it's their like, sexuality, or beliefs where
they just want to try something out, you know, they want to test it out and anonymity allows them to
converse, especially in a society that's more repressive. Japan way more people use the chans
because it's an outlet, you know, having having a place where you can anonymously say something
and talk to other people and it's not attached to your identity in the same way. It allows people
to experiment with ideas. It allows them to express things that that and try out different aspects
of their identity. I mean, I don't know. I don't know how old you are. But like when I was a kid,
there was a well instant messenger and you could go on there and pretend to be whoever you want.
And like part of the charm of the internet was was being able to being able to maintain anonymity,
you know, and anonymity has been a tool for many political movements in the past, being able to
even just share like leaflets or or documents or things that were written that that you didn't
necessarily want to be traced back to you. But because you you you because you knew the that the
what the consequences might be based on whoever was in power. So, you know, anonymity is a is a
tool for the masses that that I don't think is the problem at all. Really, if we're going to say
there's if there's if there's a problem if when I say the problem what I mean is there's hyper
polarization in society and there are people who like hate each other so much they like want to
kill them or something. That's a problem. And what's driving that problem is I think
to a major extent these algorithms and they thrive on our personal data. So, that's to me,
that's the problem. Right, them collecting the personal data is the problem. But wouldn't you
say that people being able to remain anonymous and say the most foul things about or doc somebody
and still remain remain anonymous and not well doxing somebody is a different is a different
question. And I think that that's something that we could we could potentially
regulate against. People being able to go on there and say really fucked up things. I mean,
if they're not saying something that's illegal, it's not illegal. If we want if we as a society
determine that if something goes beyond the pale to where it actually like doesn't pass the emergency
test, already those things get taken down on those sites. Like they're not they're not a like
if there's an imminent threat, right, like if if it's clear that someone isn't making a threat
to like murder someone else, they have to respond to FBI requests. That's not legal.
It has to be, you know, it has to be be treated as such. So, absolutist free speech doesn't mean
that literally anything goes and a Chan or a Coon along with a lot of those other websites will
respond to those requests. So, if we as a society say, well, we don't we don't want people to be
able to talk about certain fucked up things, then we have to be prescriptive and say, well,
what are those fucked up things they can or cannot talk about. But it's very, very difficult, if not
impossible to to regulate against one certain type of speech or one certain certain type of way of
thinking without taking out without unintentional consequences to say like, you know,
because for instance, if you we saw this with QAnon, like they they tried to ban QAnon on Twitter,
the hashtag. And inevitably, they were just like, well, let's just pick a new hashtag,
let's pick another letter, let's just let's see what are they going to do keep banning everything.
So, it becomes a whack-a-mole in that sense. And also, the more by censoring things or suppressing
them, it gives those ideas the like veneer of intellectualism, it makes them seem like there
must be something to it if someone is is suppressing. Isn't that how QAnon got catapulted
catapulted into the mainstream in the first place when they got banned from Reddit?
Yeah, yeah, I think every every time Q got censored, it made it stronger.
Because it was able to leverage that and say, I'm being censored, we're being censored.
Surely, what we're doing must be so righteous that that our enemies are responding by
by purging us or silencing us. So, yeah, the censorship is what made Q grow. Yeah, very much so.
You know, there's a there's a phrase I think is pretty on point, which is that the the hostility
of suppression speeds up the treadmill of extremism. So, that sense of being silenced or
suppressed when somebody when somebody experiences that, it makes them more sure that they're right,
and makes them more likely to act on those beliefs.
But going back to talking about being anonymous on these websites,
what about when you have something like this guy who was live streaming when he went to go shoot
up the synagogue? I think it was a synagogue or something. The guy who wasn't live streaming on,
he was like, he was, hold on, let me just toggle this.
Is it because that you're saying because it's when it comes to within the bounds of the law,
right? But these people are like cheering him on. These anonymous users are like, yeah, yeah,
yeah, finally, you stood up for us, you stood up for white supremacy and you killed these Muslims
or whatever it was. And you know, it's an argument, it's kind of an argument to say like,
maybe this guy wouldn't have done this if all these anonymous people wouldn't have been like
cheering him on being his cheerleaders. But you could also make the argument that if the media
didn't talk about it, it would, you know, you could look at all kinds of things that led to that.
But the reality was, if we're talking about this specific case, you know, at the time,
the story was that he had been radicalized on the chance. What we would later find out is that
he had been radicalized through YouTube. So years earlier, he had been led to content
that white supremacist content. He had already he had flown to like the Balkans to try to meet
with white nationalist leaders there. You know, that that guy had a history, like he should have
been on all kinds of watch lists for traditional reasons. So this is not a case where he was
just going out there specifically to appeal to those groups. However, he was aware of those
cultures, certainly of the of the Chan culture. And, you know, that he did put it in, he did
create something that was a kind of show for them. But where did he live stream? You know,
he live streamed what on like Facebook? Is that where it was? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he wasn't
live streaming on the chance. So okay. And then that live stream got picked up and replicated
and shared time and time again. So right. Facebook had a real if the if the question is,
I mean, there are some real fishers in society and some things that we need to tackle. I think
that that in that case, that guy could have been there were there were ways that that guy could
have been caught beforehand. And some things are just something some fucked up things happen in
the world. And people, you know, people cheer them on. And it's and it's and it's a nightmare.
But but at the same time, like, what do we look at? I guess I'm trying to understand what it is
that you're you're hoping to solve here. I'm trying to understand I'm really trying to understand
like what the argument like what the what the best argument is for because I hear so many people
say, you know, you're the first person I've I've heard argue for anonymous being anonymous,
remaining anonymous on the internet. I just hear, you know, I hear so many people say,
that's, you know, that's the issue because so many people, I understand, you know, the comment
section, it can hurt your feelings or whatever, you know, these assholes, you know, from their mom's
basement, they shouldn't be able to make fun of me and call me stupid in the comment section,
they should be able to have their real name on there. So I can, you know, because you wouldn't
be able to do that in real life, you couldn't walk up to somebody at the supermarket and say that
shit to them or else, you know, it's going to result in violence or real violence. So
so getting rid of and on I hate that word anonymity, getting rid of that would kind of like
would kind of resolve that issue. And you're saying that, you know, if you
make it impossible to be anonymous online, you're never going to solve the issue of
privacy, which essentially is what these algorithms are based on is people's privacy in
order to make money and, you know, keep you in your same little echo chamber. So I'm just trying,
I'm trying to understand the best argument for anonymity on the internet. And what you've already,
you've already, you've already articulated very well. I'm just trying to work through it myself,
I guess. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I think that there are places online where
just where do you want to spend your free time? Like, you know, do you want to spend on the
chance where people are poking the worst fucked up shit and, and like celebrating atrocity?
That's not where I want to spend my time. But, but, but then again, like what is the
cost of not allowing anonymity in like on a place like Reddit or, you know, especially
once you end up in an environment, like we imagine that, that society will remain the
same. We imagine that, you know, that, that authoritarian impulses or fascists or whatever
will not be in a positions of power and that we will not need anonymity to be able to communicate
and organize. We imagine, if we imagine that, that governments are, are benevolent and cannot be
corrupted and that we won't need anonymity, the shield of anonymity to be able to protect ourselves,
to, to say things that, that might be desavorable to those in power positions. If we really believe
that, then sure, everything we should do should be in public out in the open and we can monitor
everything at all times. There's a reason that privacy is the fourth amendment and there's a
cost to every right and however ugly some of the outcomes inevitably will be because of that right.
I would rather have the right than surrender it because you never know when you're going to need
it. People used to say that it didn't matter that our rights were, our privacy was being eroded online
in 2012 and now we know the cost and if our response to that is to get rid of, completely get
rid of privacy, well my god, we've just handed over the keys to, you know, everyone in power,
those who monitor us and have access to everything that we do already. That's, that's the state
that we're at. So the, the turmoil and chaos that we're seeing in society right now, the arguments
are like, well we need to restrict the speech, we need to, we need to silence the people who have
disfavorable ideas or dangerous ideas and we need to get rid of anonymity and I think the
opposite is the case. I think there was a lack of privacy that landed us here and I'm very concerned
that, that the very, that the lack of a right that landed us here is now being used to take away
more rights and I think that, you know, the Fourth Amendment is there for, for a reason and
it is a negotiation, you know, it's, it's not, it's what we're willing to accept, how much
privacy we're willing to surrender in exchange for security and I think that's a question everybody
has to ask themselves but, you know, when Democrats were under Obama they felt more comfortable with
government spying on them in exchange for security, you know, I think they felt less comfortable
during the Trump years and I feel uncomfortable with it during all years so it doesn't matter who's
in power. That's very well put, that's very well put. What do you use as far as like everyday
applications? Do you use like those encrypted text messaging apps, email apps, browsers, like how
far do you go in everyday life? As much as I can. You know, I don't have a VPN
terminal right now because our internet connection is already unstable, you know. I mean, I, I
advocate, I've spent the last eight years teaching college students how to use encrypted services,
you know, it's not because you have something to hide, it's because, it's because why do other
entities have a right to everything that you do at all times, your thoughts, and you never know
when you're going to need to have that privacy, you know, you never know who, when, what, what kind
of regime may, may step into power and suddenly, suddenly your beliefs or things that you care
about are dangerous or maybe even illegal, you know. What's legal today isn't necessarily legal
tomorrow and with a past being our permanent record all of that stuff can be used against you. I mean,
that's, we've seen that playing out in the, in the, you know, the last couple of years,
tweets that people said from a decade ago, now that culture doesn't accept that anymore or a
certain thing that they might have said, it becomes, it becomes a weapon against them. So with all of
our lives being a sort of a permanent record, you can see how much information and, and, and, and
and sort of belief from the past has consequence in the present and I feel like we're in a place now
where it's not okay to be wrong anymore and I think part of that is because we're beholden to
everything we've ever said every second so it's very difficult for people to change their minds
and that's not a good place to be in for democracy nor is it a good place when the right and the
left can't communicate with each other and there's lots of things that have bolstered that
polarization, you know, I've obviously hit on the one I think is the biggest but
I mean these things worry me and it worries me that we're not going to have, that people don't
have faith in, in, in our elections. Trump got elected, the left didn't, the left thought it
was stolen, Biden got elected, the right thought it was stolen and I, and I, and look like we need
to instill more faith in, in elections for sure. We could do that with paper ballots, you know,
you can't hack paper. It doesn't mean that people still won't come up with narratives to justify
how it might have been stolen, they will but at least we, there are things we can do to at least
give people more faith and more trust in our elections and if we don't have that going into
next election cycles, my god, man, I don't, and if we don't fix the privacy problem online,
all of the things that, that, that created this polarized environment we're in right now,
this kind of information war we witnessed online, it's only going to get worse.
So I don't like to be a doomsday prognosticator here, but I just haven't seen anything get fixed,
I haven't seen any of this stuff get fixed since the Snowden links, like I thought Snowden was,
when he revealed that the NSA was doing this massive spying on everybody and I thought that
was going to change things and like they did like the smallest amount of reform, you know,
they basically outsourced the metadata to a private company and that was basically all that
changed. So I don't have a great amount of optimism because these companies don't want
to do anything that hurts their business model, they're not going to offer up the solution that
we need. And there's plenty of people right now who are looking, are seeing the, the information
state of the internet as a, as a useful tool to gain power and they will continue to leverage that.
And, and my fear is that, is that in trying to suppress that, we're just, we're pulling the
wrong levers to, to deescalate the, the tensions that exist right now in society. And there are
too many bad actors interested in, in fucking, fucking, fucking everything up and creating chaos
for their own political gain. Yeah, man, it's so scary. It's just, you know, what are the right
levers to push? And how do you incentivize people to pull the right levers? You know,
what are those levers? And, you know, why would anyone do that when it seems just like another,
another interesting kind of example of this is, you know, the NBA in China, how if anyone like
there's the player who plays for the Boston Celtics, the big guy, I forget his name, but he speaks out
a lot about the stuff going on in his home country and in Turkey and in, and in China. And,
you know, China, I think, I think China accounts for 15 to 20% of the NBA is total revenue.
So whenever anyone like, speaks their mind on Twitter, who happens to be employed by the NBA,
they, they bury it. You know, they don't, they don't, they kind of like, they're censoring people
within their own organization, even players, because it affects their bottom line, because,
you know, China doesn't like it. Well, this is the thing is that it, it, it really is a slow creep.
And I actually don't even know how slow it's been. You know, it always starts with the,
with like, let's get rid of this thing that everybody that 98% of people agree should be
gotten rid of, or 90% of people agree should be gotten rid of. And people like, fine, you know,
Milo Yiannapa is gone, whatever, you know, nobody misses him. Oh, Alex Jones canceled,
whatever, he's gone. But then you put levers in place that when China wants to suppress certain
things in our ecosystem, well, maybe, maybe that, that gets pulled. And you don't know what you see
and what you don't on, on, on social media platforms. You don't know how your feed is being
curated and how the narrative is being shaped. So what starts is getting rid of voices that
people really dislike moves along the way to getting rid of voices and, and ideas that,
that are necessary that I think most people would agree are necessary to have a functioning
democracy. And ultimately putting those levers of censorship in place will be pulled by people
in positions of power, or, you know, organizations trying to curry favor with, or with foreign
governments where they're, they're trying to get a market share. So that's, that's why,
you know, what, it can start with something like getting rid of QAnon, but where does it end?
And that's, that's why most people who are, who are like legal scholars who debate free speech
issues will say, well, that's why you can't get rid of something like QAnon. Because, because
there is, there's, there's no, there's kind of no end to, end to it. There's no way to say,
you can't talk about this thing without a bunch of other things inevitably going with it.
And so usually it ends up harming the very people, usually getting rid of free speech
protections ends up harming the very people that, that, that, that policy was intended to protect.
Right. Yeah, man, it's, that's what we hit that in episode four, right? Like we go back to Skokie,
Illinois, where you have this Jewish attorney defending, you know, someone who's, who's basic,
who's part of like, who's a Nazi, who wants to protest, who wants to demonstrate as a Nazi
in Skokie, Illinois, a heavily Jewish community, and a Jewish lawyer took on the case to allow
them to demonstrate. Because he understood this principle at its core, despite it being
incredibly emotionally draining for people who were holocaust survivors, right?
And that's the America that I know, because there's an understanding that that has to be allowed for,
for the right to actually exist. Because say they had banned, you know, what, what law can you put
in place to ban that kind of speech that wouldn't then be used to silence, I don't know, a civil
rights activist in a community where they're incredibly unpopular. You know, Martin Luther King
Jr., would they use the same law that said, you know, says like, okay, well, we now establish that,
you know, people who are saying things which, which, which, which, which are disfavored in some
way, shape, or form. I mean, there's a great book written by Nadine Strauss and who had the ACLU
for, I think, more than 10 years called Hate, where she outlines her case of why you just, you
can't, why it's impossible to legislate against something or create a policy against something
like, you know, a Nazi speaking that wouldn't have far reaching unintended consequences.
And, and, and they've tried these things in Europe, and the list goes on and on and on of,
of the kinds of speech that gets suppressed, or, or where people, you know, get,
end up getting arrested or fined or put in jail for saying things that you and I would go, wait a
second, that's a perfectly reasonable critique. I'm trying to think of some examples off the top
of my head. It's been an hour, or it's been like a year since I read the book.
You know, it's like saying something bad about Christians, for instance, there are,
there are countries where that can be sort of inverted, and someone can go to go to jail for
saying something like that. And then what you don't know is the chilling effect that it has.
So you don't know when, when people feel like they can't say certain things,
there is self censorship that kicks in. And then that's when people turn even more to something
like the chans. You know, this is, I think a big part of why it happens in Japan, because people
are looking for an outlet to be able to express what they can't socially express. So it's, I mean,
it's a, it's a thorny issue. And, and that's why I think time and time again, it gets tested in
front of the Supreme Court, because it's always the most vile stuff that tests sort of the limits
of free speech. And we do have, there are plenty of things that are illegal that you can't do.
There's the emergency test that, that says, well, if the speech is basically inciting people to
commit imminent violence in some way, shape or form, that is disallowed. You can't yell fire in a,
in a, in a, in a crowded theater, right? That's illegal. That's not protected speech. So there is
a limit. You know, and this is something that, that gets tested time and time again. And I do
think that one of the big challenges is, well, the internet's global. But does that mean that
someone who is in South Africa shouldn't be able to influence policy in America? Because that's
what's happening. You know, that's what you see in the series. You've got a dude who's managing the,
the, the, the Q board who's operating in South Africa, but he's able to write and say things
that influence people in America. So in a way, we're exporting free speech around the world,
but it means that their speech and foreign actors can influence ours as our, our way of
thinking as well. And that's why I think now we're going into a, I've seen this from my travels.
You know, I've seen, I had a production assistants like in Macau and, and in South Africa who were,
who were like red-pelled, you know, they, they, they were, like a dude in Macau knew whom Tucker
Carlson was. I'm like, what are you, why are you, and he was able to cite like all of these
characters, like political characters of the United States. And I was like, why in the world
would this guy even know who any of these people are? And it's because of things like YouTube.
You know, so this sort of, what we're seeing now, I think, is that ideologies are spreading on a
global scale. It's borderless. It's super decentralized. And those ideologies are, are, are,
are very strongly held. So if there is going to be conflict in the future, and I, I am doing
everything that I can think of to try to avoid that, I really hope that that that it doesn't
come to pass. But you know, if there was another world war, it would be decentralized.
It wouldn't be border. It wouldn't be with borders. You know, it would be driven by ideologies
where people have come to believe certain things that they've learned through the internet.
And, and QAnon is an expression of that. We've seen it permeate many, many, many other countries.
There was a, recently in Brazil, a sort of a failed coup attempt that happened there that,
where they had their own Q Shaman, just a Brazilian version of the Q Shaman was there.
Japan, there's a, there's, they've got two different flavors of QAnon there. It's all over the,
all over the world now. And they just kind of repackaged, repackaged it for their own political
players, where there's this idea of fighting this evil global cabal. And if that can spread in the
form of Q, in a global way, then that means that these ideologies are, are, are, are spreading
in a borderless way because the internet's borderless. So in a way, you know, American free speech
and providing this to the world has opened up free speech to the world, but it means that now,
on a global scale, we're influencing each other, which is fascinating when you compare that to
the Cold War, where it's like, we were so afraid of like the communist ideology somehow finding
its way into America. And, and, and, and then we had a battle, a proxy battle, you know,
kind of communism, communism versus capitalism. And now, you know, you know, a Russian operative
or someone from another country doesn't have to leave their computer to, to shitpost and influence
things. They can, they can do it from the comfort of their own home. So people use the term information
war and it's, it's kind of hard to, sometimes it's hard to picture that, but it's a battle for
people's minds on a global scale right now. Do you think the first order of business to
sort of combat this would be to get rid of the algorithms? Do you think that would be the
one of the main things that would help solve this problem?
I don't know that we can get rid of the algorithms. It's like, you can't really put the genie back
in the bottle. And I want algorithms on a search engine. You know, I want, I want to be able to
find things on the internet more efficiently. But I think it's the data personalization feeding
the algorithms. That's the problem. You can have algorithms that don't involve all the information
that the company knows about me, right? That, that is a possibility. And, and that would, that would
change the kind of information feedback loop that, that I would experience online. So I don't
think we have to get rid of algorithms in their totality. I think we just have to, I think that
we start by enacting privacy regulations, make it so these, these companies maybe even have to
get rid of the psychometric profiles that they've built on each of us. And limit, severely limit
the, their ability to use data personalization when feeding the algorithms. That's where I would,
that's where I would start. It's slightly more prescriptive, but the algorithms, what makes them
powerful is the, is the personal data. And that's where I think the problem is, is sourced.
I have a friend who's a lawyer who I just had on last week, who he's represented multiple,
extremely violent. He's a criminal defense lawyer, and he's, he's represented neo-Nazis.
And he just, he's represented, you know, drug smugglers convicted of, you know, insane amounts
of drugs coming in to Florida. And one of his most recent clients is one of the guys who got
charged with assaulting a police officer on July or January 6th. And, you know, this guy,
this my friend, the friend of mine, he's a, he's a liberal, you know, he's a Democrat,
he's outspoken about it, and he voted for Obama, he can't stand Trump. But he takes on cases like
this, you know, he, like I said, he represents, he's represented neo-Nazis, and he represented this
guy who, you know, was convicted of assaulting a police officer on the Capitol steps. And he said,
one of the things that really kind of shocked him is how much this guy, when he first met him,
he was, he just kept pushing this thing out, he's a patriot, he's a patriot. And he's like,
it's interesting, he's like, the why, he's like, he's hijacked the word patriot. He's like, you
see the picture, there's like, there's me and Obama shaking hands, he's like, he's like, we're
all patriots, cut off the patriot bullshit. You know what I mean? And I asked him if, if I'm like,
did this guy ever talk to you about QAnon? Like, what did he say about QAnon? He's like,
I've never heard of QAnon. And he never said that once. I thought that was quite odd.
But it is, it's quite, it is interesting, you know, how, how they do hijack these words,
like, like patriot, or whenever you see we the people, like, how did we the people become this
hardcore right wing thing? Yeah, patriotism, I'm trying to remember the study or the book that
said that patriotism is a very useful psychological tool to manipulate people with.
You know, to play to their sort of, because patriotism has a kind of faith in it. It does
have a religious quality to it. So if you can, if you can use patriotism as a kind of shield or a
mask in order to, to, in order to convince people that you're on the righteous side,
you know, it helps them feel like whatever they're doing, their cause is just. So there's a lot of
power in, in you, in kind of repurposing patriotism as, as faith in one's country.
And I think that those who have done, done so understand that. They're no, they're no idiots.
I mean, using, using, using that term, using patriot, it draws in also people who, who tend
to be religious, but it draws in people who are, you know, ex military guys. It makes them feel
like, oh, this is the, this is the thing that I belong to, because, because patriotism and the flag
is so central to it. And what is the alternative for them? If they see this thing that, that says,
like, yeah, come over here. We really support, you know, the country, you know, we, we blanket
ourselves in flags. I think it's, it's, it's attractive to, to a lot of people. It's another
effective tool for mobilization. You know, I, I, I, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a pretty serious constitutionalist,
you know, and I care a lot about civil rights. I mean, I would consider myself to be a patriot,
right? But when it gets repurposed, it's fascinating because, because then people are afraid to say
something like that. You know, like the, the democratic, the American experiment founded on
the constitution set the stage for the rest of the world when it came to, to, to, to, you know,
civil liberties. It wasn't perfect when it came out, but it was the best document and they knew
it would need to be a working document. You know, and that's, that's why when I, when I look at
something like this new question around, oh, free speech online or digital privacy online,
it's like, we're just having the argument again, because it's in a digital space. But it's really,
it's really the same argument or same question that we've had for hundreds of years. And when
people were escaping tyranny, they said, here's, here's what we need. Here are the rights we want.
Here's what we wish we'd had. So it does frustrate the hell out of me to see it kind of get repurposed
and into a certain extent. But I do think that those who, who get drawn to that, they get drawn
to it because they feel like there's no, where are the, where's the patriotism somewhere else? If
you went and like nearly died for your country and you came back and you're like, well, which group
would I align with? Would you align with the one that, that, that, you know,
that seems to support you and, and, and has, you know, uses a lot of American flags or one that
is unwilling to say that they're, that they have any sense of patriotism, you know, it's a, it's a
clever, it's a clever ideological weapon. Yeah. And I've never seen it. It's, it's, it's used so
effective and it's just so confusing. It is very confusing. It's very confusing. Yeah.
What was it like on, on January 6 when you guys went there to film and you met with Jim?
Well, I didn't get much sleep going into that, going into that day, the two nights before.
I was just really anxious because I knew something bad was coming. I didn't know how,
I actually thought that it might break out into civil war that day. That's how bad I
thought it was going to be. And I, and I think that we, we are lucky that it didn't.
Um, you know, the, the, the stage, especially looking back now at, at the quote unquote failures
that allowed people to get into the Capitol. I mean, you know, they, the Senate, there were
still senators, you know, in the room while rioters were in the building. So it was just chance
that, that, that, that didn't escalate or that more people didn't get shot and killed.
I mean, if they had started firing on that crowd, what would have happened? I mean,
would DC have just turned into a war zone? So I'm, I'm thankful that it wasn't worse,
but I think for most people sitting at home who hadn't been tracking this stuff for,
you know, months or years, you know, it was very shocking that anything like that could have been
possible. So I was, uh, yeah, I was on high alert going into that day and I was, I was there to
document Jim's reaction to all of it, um, you know, and, uh, get a better grip on just how
a bunch of a role Q had played. Um, you know, and Q, I don't think that the sixth happened
solely because of Q. I don't think it would have happened without it either.
And the amount of the ideology of Q that it just, it was, its presence was everywhere that day,
whether it was, whether it was in the form of flags and patches or, or just the chance that
people were saying or the songs that people were playing, you know, it was all, you could,
you could see how much of it was informed by Q. Um, and Jim reflects that in, in, uh,
in what he says that day, you know, he's like, you know, Q's real, you know, it belongs in,
in there and like the history books now. Um, and, uh, you know, and those guys were stoking
the flames and the run up to it. So, uh, now I'm feeling stressed just thinking about it.
That day was like, uh, um, yeah, you know, I mean, and, and, and the heat of the moment,
it was really unclear how, how we, I mean, I didn't know what was going on inside of the capital
until later. Jim, you, you could, you could, he, I couldn't tell if he was larping or if he was,
if he meant it when he said, you know, when he was cheering at the fact that there was somebody,
you know, out the window in the capital, I'm like, that can't be possible. There's,
they didn't, there wasn't actually somebody out the way. I mean, it wasn't until, you know, later
that night and I saw the, the footage was like, holy fucking shit, the Q shaman got on the dance.
Like what happened? How is that possible? The guy with the, the horns? Yeah, yeah.
I mean, and I'd seen that guy, you know, a couple months earlier at a Q convention,
he's just like a, I mean, he's the definition of a larper, you know? Right, right. But, but it was
like a switch had flipped that day and they'd gone from larping and I don't even, and that's why
we play that hallucinogenic tune, um, going into the, the capital because it was like,
it was almost like the end of a really bad trip. And, and where suddenly it was like,
here they all were in, in, in this, this, I mean, this, the capital building,
it was like a switch had suddenly been flipped. And I don't think that the people who were there,
like the Q shaman and some of these guys, like, who knows what it felt like for them. But
I think now they understand that, that, that they had gone from larping to doing something very real
and consequential. You know, and I think that the people who were provoking them understood
what they were doing. I think that Trump and his inner circle knew exactly what they were doing.
But, you know, they, they, I mean, they, they just kind of, they let those guys do the work for
them. And it doesn't seem like, uh, I mean, Trump didn't, didn't come out and, and, uh,
you know, support, support them after the fact, right? He just kind of left them all, left them
all out to dry. So, I mean, he was able to kind of walk away from it all untarnished. But we'll
see how that narrative continues to get rewritten around what happened on the sixth. Um, I mean,
we're seeing it every day. And, and what, how is, how is that going to be used in the upcoming
election cycle? I'm, I'm, um, I guess we just have to sit back and, and watch, but it, some of the
agencies, it seems like they're kind of brushing it under the rug, you know, just like they don't
really want to look at what happened that day. Um, we'll see what the January 6 commission dredges
up. But most likely in a year, we'll see, we'll see a flip in, in who's in Congress. I mean,
I thought, look, like everyone in Congress was there. Like the fact that, uh, there, there couldn't
be some agreement on how to, on, on investigating what had happened, um, between the right and the
left for that ish. I think that gives you a, a sense of where we're at as a country right now.
Um, like that should have been a bipartisan concern.
You know, they, they weren't just going for Democrats that day. They were going for Pence,
you know? So like there's no effort to sort of heal this like wound of division in this country.
Like there's, it's just like these people, they just want to use it to their advantage for more
political power or for more influence or whatever it is. It doesn't seem like any of these people
in power are interested in, in solving this problem. Yeah, I don't, I mean, I'm sure that
there's some, um, who, who are interested in, in solving it, but I, I, there's,
I think there is maybe just too much focus on self-preservation, um, with a lot of people who
are in power. And I think there was a, when Biden took office, maybe there was a hope that
things would just like, oh, well, things are back to normal or something. Like, and, and that's,
that's just not the case. Um, you know, and, and that, and there's no, just because it's been
brushed off of Twitter doesn't mean that, that, you know, almost half of the country has changed
the way that it, that it feels about any of this or that, that, or that any of the problems that
enabled that attempt have gone away. Um, if anything they've learned from it, and they're
gonna double down, no pun intended, but they're gonna, they're going to, um, be more organized,
more well-funded, and more angry, um, in, in the future. So, uh, yeah, I just don't, I don't think
that it's, it's, um, that, that, yeah, I don't, I wish that there was more focus. And I think on,
on kind of, on, on getting the extremes, uh, closer to, to center and the right and the left
talking again. Um, and I, I've seen some of it, you know, Bill Maher's been doing it. Um, there's
been, there's been, uh, like, there's, there's been individuals who are, who are saying like, whoa,
whoa, whoa, let's, let's, uh, let's start to break down what the fishers really are, um, and how
these two sides are playing each other for their own political gain, uh, and what the cost of that
is. And if we don't start to de-escalate it, um, we're gonna, these two realities aren't gonna be
able to coexist. Well, you're doing a fucking phenomenal job yourself. I mean, just, I think
your film is one of the biggest things out there right now that amplifies this issue.
And, um, you just being you and creating the work that you're creating is, I think,
I think if there's anything that can help these heal this wound in this country, it's, it's work
like the work that you're doing and doing talks like these with people. Um, you know, even you
going on Joe Rogan, things like that, you know, I think, uh, the more that we can amplify people
like you and the more, you know, people become aware of films like yours, the better. Um, if
there's anything that you can do, I mean, you're doing the most that you could possibly do.
And, uh, I appreciate you for that. Well, I, it's very, very, very generous and considerate
sentiment. Thank you. I really enjoyed talking to you and, um, uh, thank you for, thank you for
your, your, your thoughts on the work I'm doing and, um, and for letting me speak to your audience as well.
