Yeah, I was rollerblading at Seminole High School.
And he crammed half a tooth, so he comes home with it, so my parents, like, emergency
stuff.
He comes home with the tooth?
No, yeah.
They went and had an emergency, like the guy came in on a Saturday and it glue his tooth
back on.
It was Super Bowl Sunday.
So, that later that day, we were wrestling or something and he fell back and my elbow
hit his tooth and it totally broke again.
Oh my god.
And then the doctor said, fuck it.
Yeah, fuck it.
It just gives you a new...
We're going to pull it and give you the whitest tooth that we have.
We're not going to match it.
We're going to make sure it does not fucking match.
We're going to hope you catch up.
Never did.
I hope you hopefully brush the rest of them.
No.
Well, I'm just trying to, like, stain it.
It's easier to just stain one than to whiten all the rest of them.
Like, instead of, like, doing a whitening strip, I'll just do, like...
He puts out a new port on it.
Or, like, put that tooth in a K-cup with a little bit of water so it's just, like,
cold coffee water and then just, like, tries to stain it.
I'm probably just going to get Keith on there.
Hell, yeah.
I can get you instant coffee.
That was the instant coffee.
Yeah, dude.
And I smuggled it out.
Yeah?
I still got it.
We should drink a cup.
We should drink a cup.
All right, let's get this fucker rolling.
Are we rolling?
Do we need headphones?
If you want them.
You don't need them.
Jake, you want to wear them?
You don't need them.
Okay.
We don't want to mess up your head.
Am I not going to be able to agree with you guys?
No, yeah.
No, yeah.
I just like it because I can hear it right now.
I know it was a joke.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Fuck.
All right.
All right.
All right, so this podcast is a very rare podcast, extremely fucking rare.
Today's special guest is Jake James Legend of Pinellas County and his brother Luke James.
Not so much a legend.
Also a legend.
In his own right.
Also a legend.
Also a legend.
Yeah.
Our mom had two boys that were all over TV.
Yeah.
We're already stars.
I was seen on TV.
I was on TV for three days.
How about you?
It was just like a solid day on Bay News 9.
So it was a classic though.
Jake, for everybody out there who's not from this area who may not know who you are, give
us like a, just introduce yourself.
Oh, this isn't local?
No, it's not.
Yeah, it's local too.
It's also national.
It's the local channel.
A little bit about myself.
Yeah.
Just give me the elevator pitch of who Jake James is.
Well, it's a complicated and long story.
He's never been in an elevator, so he's going to have a hard time.
Yeah.
I mean, I've been on Escalator.
I've been one of those fast walking things in the airport, I don't know what you call
those.
That's a fast walking sidewalk.
Oh, nice.
Oh, it's like a flat escalator.
I like it.
Yeah.
Call the moving road that you can walk on.
All right.
Well, I don't fucking know, dude.
You don't know who you are?
Does anybody?
No, not really.
The Florida man.
I'm still kind of trying to figure it out.
Yeah.
Well, that's good.
I've just done a lot of dumb shit.
Like when you're a little kid where you touch the stove, you know, it's hot.
I pretty much do that with every aspect of my life.
Just touch.
Yeah.
Forget about it and do it the same thing the next day.
But he doesn't touch it.
He just like puts his face on it.
Right.
It's to the extreme.
Yeah.
It's not just a touch.
It's not just like a...
It's pretty much...
It's like, oh, I kind of like that.
Well, me summed up real quick is I'm either not doing it or I'm all the way fucking in.
Kind of deal.
All in or all out.
Yeah.
There's no...
You and Luke are the same in that aspect.
Yeah, for sure.
Is that like something that was hardwired into you guys as young kids?
I think we get it from our mom.
Totally.
But...
Dad, too.
Yeah, but they...
They're extreme.
Well, they can handle it better than, well, I could.
Because like you look right now how Luke looked like eight years ago.
I know.
Yeah.
It's weird.
We just switched kind of.
Jake never looked like this.
He never looked this good.
I don't think I was ever that skinny.
No.
No, you're already ripped.
So ripped.
Cut up, dude.
Cake, man.
That's all that used to be G.H.
Yeah.
It's doing good.
The protein.
I think you're taking like the racing horse steroids.
Straight in the ass.
What's the shirt?
What's the shirt say?
Oh, sworn to fun, low to none.
What's that mean?
It's a motto from one of my good buddy's dads that just passed away.
Oh, OK.
Yeah.
Fuck.
Pretty much like fuck everybody.
You know what I mean?
I like that, dude.
Yeah.
If it ain't fun.
Fuck.
Just fucking go home.
Right.
Don't do it.
Because that's not fun.
Yeah.
He made it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I made the shirt.
Yeah.
I just been making shitty shirts with vinyl iron on letters.
Oh, OK.
I was thought I was going to start an empire just like every little.
It doesn't happen.
Just like the Mountain Dew thing.
Yeah.
I know they were going to kick Dale Jr. off and put me on Mountain Dew, but.
You mean what Mountain Dew thing?
Oh, when we shotgun.
Oh, OK.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was making sure.
Because I know you have a Mountain Dew tattoo also, right?
Yeah.
We got to get a little backstory to the Mountain Dew thing.
You can't just say it like everybody knows.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Give us an introduction.
Introduce us to somebody.
What is the story of the Mountain Dew?
OK.
So the Mountain Dew thing started.
I don't even know how that started.
Was that your idea or my idea?
It was someone's idea.
I'm not going to do that.
Well, no.
You wanted me to do a suicide.
Like, you know, when you're a kid, you hit the fountain.
You get all the sodas.
A little bit of soda.
Luke wanted me to do like a 12 pack of every different soda.
OK.
Like how fast I could do it.
Yeah.
But then I started reading about all those people dying from like chugging water.
So I'm like, Luke, I might die, dude.
So he was like, all right, let's just do six tall boys at Mountain Dew, which was almost
a gallon.
I really didn't do the math, but it sounded better than 12.
Yeah.
I don't have time for math, but I'm going to do it.
Six tall boys, 12, 12 dudes.
It sounds better.
But they don't have a conversion.
Like how many tall boys are in a gallon?
Yeah.
There's no conversion.
What's in a tall boy?
Well, there's 128 ounces in a gallon.
16 ounce.
16.9.
16 times 6.
16.9.
Oh, were you referencing the cans of liquid death?
Yeah.
I was looking.
That was like 96.
It was 96 ounces of Mountain Dew.
128 ounces is a gallon.
And you chugged the whole thing.
Don't ask how I know that.
Yeah.
It's on fucking.
The Frick YouTube channel.
It's about to blow up any day now.
Yeah.
It's been on there for like five years.
I think I got like 150 views.
I thought I was going to get out and be a superstar.
But we literally timed it.
And it was how long?
A minute and three seconds.
A minute and three seconds.
For six tall boys.
Shotgun.
Six tall boys.
Mountain Dews.
So bad.
Were they code red or regular dude?
They were regular dudes.
Yeah.
We don't fuck with that code red.
It's either real dude, Baja Blast, or get the fuck out.
Don't hit me with that diet.
Yeah.
Oh, that was funny too.
Because I was cooking at this shitty restaurant on the beach.
It was like Dollar Taco Day.
So I'm just like jamming tacos while I'm cooking all day.
And so we shotgunned all six of the dudes.
And I was like, I just started puking.
Right.
So I'm throwing up Mountain Dew, throwing up Mountain Dew.
And then I hit the tacos.
And I was like, all right, I'm good.
Oh, gosh.
So bring up a little bit from the dudes.
No, I pretty much got them all out.
Really?
Yeah.
But I didn't drink a Mountain Dew for like probably like a year after that.
You should show us the Mountain Dew tattoo.
Oh.
Scoot up a little closer.
The whole can.
Put it up to the mic.
Can I get somewhere Mountain Dew?
I got that right there because I always see guys getting tattoos of like guns in their
waistband.
That's so funny.
We were just talking about that.
I was like, dude, you put these floors and had that.
I know.
I'm like, that's pretty stupid.
Makes no sense.
The lamest tattoo.
So I'm like, I want to get a fucking can of Mountain Dew in my waistband.
Just pretty much like a fuck you.
Oh my gosh.
I was going to ask you.
I was just going to ask a prison question, but then I realized we didn't even like introduce
that whole story yet.
Yeah.
That's what, yeah.
Go ahead.
You've been to prison.
How long were you in prison for?
I did total of six years.
I got a seven year sentence.
Florida, you have to do 85% of your time.
So I ended up doing like give it, take a couple of days, six years.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
And what did you go in for?
Arm burglary, arm robbery, possession of cocaine, possession of oxycodone.
Wow.
That's a, that's a tongue twister.
I think that was it.
Yeah.
That's a lot.
It sounds a lot worse than it is.
Yeah.
Do you want to give some backstory to the lead up?
Yeah.
Let it rip.
Oh.
Yes.
So how do you, how do you get arrested for?
Well, it means before you get arrested, you got to understand like the backstory of the
whole thing, how the monster was made.
How, how, how was the, how was this monster born?
Okay.
So I, I was kind of late doing drugs, I guess as a kid.
I was probably like 16 maybe.
That's late.
That's not late.
Hard drugs.
I mean, come on.
Yeah.
I mean, I tried Coke for the first time at 16, but I didn't try.
I didn't do it.
I didn't do it like a year or two after that.
I didn't touch it.
Okay.
But, but I should have known that first time when I did it, I shouldn't have done it anymore.
Right.
Cause it's like, that's all you want kind of deal.
Yeah.
I just got a super addictive personality kind of deal.
Just kind of take off with it.
So you're 18, 16, 18 years old.
Yeah.
But the people, the people I ran with was kind of, they were way earlier than me.
Yeah.
And I would always say no.
And then just kind of started doing it.
And, you know, everybody says like, Oh, I'm selling drugs, but it's really like you're
doing them and kind of getting them half priced because you're selling a few.
Pedaling a little.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Kind of shit like that.
Making your stash cheaper.
Yeah.
Well, I always had some good insight.
Wow.
How do you know so much about this?
Well, we're no saints here.
Yeah.
So, um, when I was, I don't even know how old I was, that's kind of a blur back then,
but I got a hookup with a bunch of people that had a bunch of fucking like Vicodin and
shit like that.
And I was selling those.
And then I started like,
You were selling Vicodins.
Yeah.
So I didn't, I was actually selling them then.
Wasn't really doing them and didn't smoke weed.
I didn't really like going out to bars drinking.
Yeah.
And then I started trying the pills and it was like, Oh, this feels, this feels fucking
great.
Yeah.
So you pop them every day and then I didn't have them one day and I was talking to somebody
and they're like, Oh, you're dope sick.
I'm like, what?
Like a junkie?
Like, like doing heroin or something.
Random dude.
And I was probably, Oh no, the guy I knew.
Okay.
That would, that does him too.
And then, uh, I don't even know how old I was then.
I was probably, I was probably like 18 somewhere in there.
Yeah.
So then, um, it just kind of spiraled from there.
Just started doing heart, like just higher dose ones and with all the pill mill shits
around here too.
Oh my God.
So it was so easy, man, like totally out of control.
Right.
That was an epidemic time in Florida.
For sure.
Yeah.
It was like you'd go to these scripts of pills, you'd go to these doctors, man, and there's
there's fucking a hundred people outside waiting.
Right.
And there's people inside.
They can't fit no more people in there.
And it's all cash.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Dude, it's, it's still like that though.
I mean, my wife had to just go to the doctor and they were like trying to give, prescribe
her Vicodin.
Oh.
And she's like, no, I really don't want it.
I don't need it.
I'm fine.
I can get you like, no, no, no, you need it.
You need it.
And they ended up like forcing and giving, forcing her a bottle of Vicodin.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, they're incentivized.
Like I got to tell them if something and I'm like, don't give it to me.
I can't do it.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
So how easy was it to get it?
Like what is it?
Oh, it was so easy.
Well, I had, when I was 15, I had screws in my hips, hips are all fucked up.
So I had x-rays and I would just pretty much take them in there.
And if I didn't have the x-rays, I knew what to tell them.
So they kind of know you're not a cop or something like that, I guess.
Yeah.
So we would hit like probably like five or six of different ones a month.
And I mean, and you're getting shit to where fucking put down a fucking elephant, dude.
And then like fucking, I'll be like, oh, I got a cough too.
Let me get some of that promethazine or something else.
Oh my God.
Oh, anything you wanted, you just tell them, be like, oh, I can't, I can't concentrate
or.
At what age?
I got this.
I think that was, oh man, I was in high school in 2004, 2005.
So.
Jeez.
I was like early 20s, probably like that.
Yeah.
But yeah, that was totally out of control.
So pretty much if you just like had an excuse and some cash and you knew what to say, you
could get whatever you wanted.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, that's all it is.
Yeah.
It was more so the cash.
Were you drinking and eating these pills?
No, no, no, no.
I was never a big drinker.
At all.
Believe it or not, he never drank back.
I never drank.
Like, I always like.
There'd be like some smearing up ice in the fridge.
You know, people like have some drink.
You know, you know, you know, people.
Yeah, dude.
Like people have some drinks and they're like, oh, I want to go get some coke.
Yeah.
I'm like, I just want some coke.
Yeah.
Fuck the drinks.
I'm like, I don't want to drink.
Holy shit.
That's how I was.
That's how I was.
So I was totally out of my fucking mind all the time.
Yeah.
So.
So like, I mean, like, seeing people now, I'm like, OK, I get why you drink and then
do it.
But I was just full blown.
Okay.
Doing coke and and then it got to the point to where I was dropping something off for
somebody and they were shooting up.
Shooting up coke.
Shooting up coke.
Yeah.
So they said, do you want to try?
I go, no.
And then like a couple more times I'd go over there like different times and one day I was
like, yeah, fuck it, whatever.
So I tried that.
I I hated shooting up pills.
I love shooting up coke.
Why?
Pills and shoot coke.
I don't know.
Because I'm a I have no idea.
It was just remember.
You can't remember.
Like what?
No, I just felt like I felt like when you shot up pills, it was that you just went through
too many.
And then I'm like, I don't want to be dope sick.
Right.
So I don't want to go through all my pills that quick.
OK.
With the coke.
I mean, if you snore, whatever you do with it, you're going to want it.
Yeah, you're going for the rush.
Every few minutes.
No matter what you.
Yeah.
But like that that was like chasing the deal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I got to the point to where I was just I was just banging coke, snorting pills.
Kind of all day.
I mean, if I had it, yeah, well, then you're just just your whole life kind of just revolves
around where what are you going to do next to get money?
Who are you going to scam?
Yeah, yeah.
What are you going to do kind of around?
Did you have like a job?
Do you have like a job or anything at anything like at the time that was like holding you
down like any kind of stability in your life?
No, I mean, if there was, I I never had like a serious job, so I never really took anything
serious back then.
If I didn't like it, I just began to be like, fuck you and leave.
Yeah, because, yeah, which is kind of like I'm working the same job kind of jobs now.
But yeah, yeah, I got you stick with it because you have to.
There's bills to pay now.
Hey, yeah.
Walk me through the timeline, how that part of your life led up to the part where you
got in trouble.
Yeah.
I mean, when you're when you're hitting it that hard for so long, it's a matter of time
because you're you're either riding around all day with shit.
You're you're you're always doing something shady, illegal kind of deal like that.
The people you hang out with, you're fucking hanging out with total fucking scumbags
that do not give a fuck about you.
Yeah, they just they're hanging out because you might be able to get something vice versa.
You know, I mean, I would hang out with people I would never fucking hang out with.
Right.
So it's just kind of like that.
And then you just get in this wrong crowd and then just just shit.
You know, I mean, just builds up and everybody keeps going the next level
to where it's just like something fucking bad is going to fucking happen.
Yeah.
So then I guess I guess basically like the first time I really got in trouble.
Luke, were you were you talking to him at all?
And this do you remember this?
Do you remember this time?
Yeah, we didn't really ever have a great relationship, I think, between the ages
of from whenever I can remember up until.
I was he got out of prison.
No, I mean, we we really connected in prison, yeah, like through heavy metal
and just kind of it took me like three years for of being sober in prison.
Yeah.
To kind of if I would have gotten out before the three like three years,
I would have got out and done the same thing.
You think? But oh, I know.
Yeah, well, because I would some days I'd be like, oh, man, this is so stupid.
And I was like, oh, I kind of just if I got out right now,
I just get how I'm like, fuck this shit.
Skip the whole part about how like you got arrested.
You went to county for about eight months.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's what I mean.
I was getting to all that.
But yeah, yeah, yeah.
I kind of took a little detour.
Yeah, yeah. So I mean, so I mean, basically I.
We I was with this dude.
This is yeah, I just seem like at this point, you're just like in a tornado of
just yeah, I mean, you're just kind of you're in it.
You're in it. You're just on autopilot.
Yeah, just trying to get drugs like not really you don't care about nobody,
but you're so right kind of just trying to get high.
Yeah, I mean, that's it.
Right.
And from my perspective, too, it's like, you know, it's like you show up to
all these like family functions, you know, if you do show up at all,
like you show up and then you're like nodding out and like you're dope sick
or like you don't want to be there and like you start fighting with everybody.
And then it just like everybody just like wants you to be well,
but like you're so caught up in your addiction that you don't recognize
the help that's around you and like all the love that's surrounding you
because you're just looking for that next fix.
Yeah, well, that too.
But then it's like, you know, you're fucked up.
Yeah, you're not trying to hear fucking shit about it.
Yeah, like, you know, you're fucked up.
Do you really know?
Like, how much do you know?
OK, no, no, it's really fucked up because like my my booking photo
was like, it was fucking horrible.
But you don't think you look that bad.
OK, until you see that picture, you see the pictures are like like now
down the road, I'll look back on a lot of pictures and shit.
I'm like, what the fuck was I even think?
Like, you're not thinking like a skull with eyeballs.
You do not know.
No, you do not.
Like I was 190 pounds when I got arrested and I looked I look fucking ridiculous
like under 200 pounds.
Really? Yeah. Yeah.
So and it's you don't you think you look you think you look normal.
Like like you're not on drugs.
You think you look fucking normal, right?
You always think you're getting away with it and people don't know.
Yeah, but like now I'm like, God, I'm like, just how much shit I did.
Like seeing people like I mean, that's why like a lot of times
I would just be like in my in my place, like by myself.
Yeah, like I don't have to see nobody.
I have to talk to anybody because it's like you can't fucking talk to anybody.
Are you so fucking coked out of your mind that you can't even look anybody in the eye.
You're fucking looking on the ground.
You're like going to the store to get cigarettes and you're just like fuck.
I hope nobody's in line and then you're just like if somebody's in line,
you're just like kind of like dancing around, just looking at the floor.
Yeah, you don't want to stand still arena.
Yeah, man.
Just so nobody like looks you in the face because it's like people know.
Yeah, people know, yeah.
But I honestly did not think I looked as bad as I did or you don't.
Yeah, it's it's really weird how that how that kind of happens.
So were there any actual family functions like this or like in this?
I would always I would never go.
You would never go. I would never go.
Oh, Luke says there were.
There's a couple.
Well, probably a couple, but for the most part, I would always not go.
Yeah, like family vacations.
My mom would be like, yeah, yeah.
Oh, I'm going to or we're going to Mexico.
Yeah. Are you going to go?
Yeah, I'll go. Jake, are you really going to go?
Yeah, I'll go by the ticket.
We're like in high school.
Yeah. So then the day would come like five in the morning.
They're banging on my door.
I'm like, fuck you, I'm not coming out pretty much that one time.
Yeah. And there was like and then I had to leave.
I think I didn't I didn't have no place to stay for like a week.
So I was pretty much just like trying to scrounge up enough money
to get a shitty hotel room.
But there was a couple of days where I would just be walking around all night
and then like sleeping on side of somebody's house I knew.
But I wouldn't tell them kind of I was there like that.
Yeah, like during the day, I would do it.
Yeah, I was fucked.
There was one like Easter trip to I remember where like we all went to Cocoa Beach.
Like you you two like ended up at like the double tree north of the Air Force base.
My mom would always take me and Greg at like a holiday in and Jake was supposed to come.
And you know, we came late.
You guys came for like one night.
You showed up at like 3 a.m.
And then you left at like seven.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
And you all were like, Terran asked across Florida that old old
mobile that you had just probably fucking getting booted the whole way.
Oh, OK, that was so fucked because like that was probably like
I had been new to do below then and I was so fucking geeked out that we decided
we ended up leaving like I think we left at like 10 o'clock at night.
Who's we mean a couple of my buddies.
Yeah, I think I think they all they're in prison right now.
But shut up to the home.
Yeah, this week, one of them, we borrowed the tricycle for that Jimmy Hart commercial
where he was dressed up like Jigsaw.
Really? Yeah. Wow.
And he tried to pawn my phone.
I gave him a ride home.
Is that the greasiness? Yeah.
Yeah. OK. But. Wow.
But yeah, I remember because we left at 10 and don't take that long to get over there.
But I was so like I could not fucking see.
I was like I was driving two and a half to three hours.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. It was like 10 o'clock at night.
But then we got there at three and we were driving the whole time.
I kept fucking missing the same exit and on the highway and I had to keep going.
I remember just doing like we probably did like three or four loops,
like super long loops on the highway.
No idea where I'm going, like super blurry vision to where like you try to look at your phone.
You're like, OK, I'll look at that tomorrow.
Your motorola, your motorola, brick phone, piece of trying to play a snake.
Is that a focus?
Oh, it's a fucking Nokia back there.
Why are they making these phones out of focus like this?
What the fuck? I was probably playing Snake while I was driving.
Yeah, that's bad. I mean, yeah, I fucking totally forgot about that.
Yeah, somebody had a water bottle full of vodka
and then mom woke up in the morning.
God, we were still in high school, right?
I was like 17.
We weren't in high school in the same time.
Were we? No, no, I graduated.
We went there. Yeah, we're probably like eighth grade.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
So then I remember my mom gets up in the morning
and happens to grab this water bottle full of vodka and she.
I don't know how people do this.
So I mean, she chugs it and then like after three gulps, realizes it's vodka.
And I'm like, she finishes it.
That's why I'm called bullshit.
I'm like, she was pissed because, yeah, I mean,
you know that when you open the fucking water bottle.
It's the nose real quick.
Especially Luke Luke has a nose just like my mom.
You know, she smelled that.
You know, you smell it through the plastic.
Oh, bonus.
And then if you're grabbing like a random water bottle that isn't yours,
you're totally at fault for anything that's in it.
If you just go for it. Oh, yeah.
Oh, every time I open a water bottle, I don't hear that click.
I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no, for sure.
So she drinks the whole thing.
Yeah, I'm actually kind of blaming the whole story about that, about on my mom.
Thanks, mom.
Love you.
Holy fuck.
Yeah, there's been there's a lot of there's a lot of crazy stories.
Like I'm sure I don't even remember.
Your parents were fucking super cool back then, though.
Yeah, they were super laid back.
Do you still have the cigarette scar?
Yeah, I still got a cigarette scar.
Mine shows up.
I mean, nowadays, but yeah, it's right at the little circle right there.
Yeah, right there.
How do you guys feel about when you see a can of Milwaukee's best?
Well, I haven't drank one since, probably, to be honest with you.
They don't have the gold tops anymore.
So I don't get the flashbacks I used to.
Yeah, I mean, I was just trying to help you guys out.
You really did help us out.
I was going down the wrong path.
How did that shit go?
How did that work?
OK, so, I mean, I was fucked up back then, too.
Yeah, so it's pretty much the whole.
Stealing money from his younger brother who's trying to score some beer.
No, I did not steal it from you.
Yeah, we willingly asked you to buy it.
They wanted me to get them.
They wanted me to get them.
That's capitalism.
Yeah, we're like 16, 17.
And we want some beer.
I just started an economics class in high school.
So yeah, so we asked you for beer and I don't know, it was you or somebody else.
And we're like, go ask Jake for a dip.
He can buy some beer.
We got like $20, $30 or whatever.
You come back and he's like, yeah, he'll buy it for us.
But he wants to put a cigarette out on our arm.
And that's the only way he'll do it.
And we're like, fuck no.
And he's like, well, then he's not buying the beer.
We're like, all right, we'll fucking just do it.
Like how bad could it be to put a cigarette out on your arm?
But I remember he comes over and he puts the cigarette out of my arm and then it
like it boils up and then surprise.
Then he takes his thumb and he just riffs the skin off of it.
So it wasn't it wasn't like you just put it out.
That's something you just like and then cool.
We're getting some beer.
But he singes it and then takes his thumbnail and scrapes the fucking skin off.
And it's like, yeah, it was like four of us.
And then he made eye contact with me as he was doing my is like, I own you.
But the fucked up really fucked up part about it was I was supposed to get you
guys a case of Milwaukee's best for 30 bucks.
Yeah, I show up.
Probably a 12 pack.
Yeah. And it was ice.
Yeah.
Milwaukee's ice.
Yeah. We still got fucked up on that, though, for sure.
My parents found the cans in the yard like 10 years later.
They're like, we're doing renovations.
If our parents ever ripped up that front yard with all this
Paul Meadow plants, what would they find?
Oh, man, I don't even know.
Like weird shit.
I forgot that you left there.
Probably probably Luke's tooth out there somewhere.
I wish they would.
I wish they wish they would.
I'm tired of looking like an idiot.
He's a character.
Yeah, that's right. Jesus Christ.
It's like the McDonald's Golden Arches.
I just tell people I couldn't afford a gold tooth.
So I was like, give me the whitest one you got.
Gold would actually be sick.
Oh, yeah, you should have got gold.
You fucked up.
You could always switch it up in the future.
Can you switch it up?
I mean, I think I'm due.
You're due now.
You've earned it at this point.
It's like a phone plan.
You got to.
It's not permanent.
No, it's still on layaway.
Yeah.
She get one of those diamonds on there.
Oh, man.
All right.
Yeah, those were amazing.
I like how this podcast is just going about Luke's teeth
and nose.
It circles back to the teeth somehow.
Every conversation.
It's just nice to be included in the conversation.
I don't care what it is.
Honestly, it's just really great to be here.
And they just grown up with me.
You got some pretty thick skin.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, you ain't going to hurt me.
So walk us through the walk us up to the actual arrest.
How did that?
How did that?
What led up to that?
OK, so I got to the first.
Yeah, I know.
I got I got I got.
Yeah, I got arrested in 2007.
I was I was I was driving somebody around.
We picked up this crackhead in St.
Pete that owed him money and told us to drive to Seminole.
That's where the money was that he had at his house.
Yeah.
So he tells us go to this house in Seminole.
Pull up.
He's like, oh, it's a house right there.
So we're in the car.
We're not even really paying attention to him.
Yeah.
He gets out and just fucking books it.
But we don't know that.
So the dude I'm with just fucking he's like, where's my fucking money?
I was like, dude, he left.
It's not even his house.
The dude fucking is so mad.
We're all fucked up, too.
So fucking he gets out.
He's yelling.
Where's my money?
And now we're in fucking Seminole.
There's fucking kids.
I remember kids playing.
So parents are fucking watching.
Yeah, we're watching.
This is like broad daylight.
This is broad fucking daylight.
Middle afternoon.
Wow.
This dumb motherfucker kicks his fucking door in.
OK, nobody was fucking home.
Because like it probably would have been like a life sentence kind of deal.
So he gets in and then he fucking grabs like a few shotguns out of this house.
Yeah.
So it's just a random house, a random house, a random house that he that the
dude told him that he lived at.
But he didn't fucking live there.
Right.
Kind of deal.
So he just wanted to ride or something.
No, he OK.
So we picked him up because he owed the dude money.
Yeah.
And he's like, oh, you got to drive me to Saint Seminole to this house
so I can get my money or whatever, which you never trust a crackhead
because a crackhead never leaves money anywhere.
I know that now.
OK, sure.
That's a good lesson to learn.
Just solid life advice.
Yeah.
So it ends up he ends up turning like, OK, kicking in the door.
Nobody's home.
Cool.
Third degree third degree felony like Lois Felony.
You grab guns, you arm yourself.
It's arm burglary, which is like a first first degree felony kind of deal.
Right.
He brought the guns or the guns?
No, he stole them out of the house.
So in Florida, if you.
OK, so say you're like going in somebody's house to go like burglary.
Not home. Yeah.
It's I mean, it's serious, but it's not that fucking serious.
Yeah. You you steal a gun from their house.
You are on yourself.
So you're it's arm burglary.
So it's just as bad as going in there with the gun.
No, I mean, that's actually a little bit worse.
It's like home invasion.
Home invasion. Yeah.
But it's I mean, it's up there, though, too.
So. So whatever we get, we get we get pop for that.
Oh, no. OK, so we get away.
They get my license plate.
We fucking say the neighbors or yeah, the neighbors got my license plate.
Cops go to my house.
They talk to me. What happened?
There they tell me to come in and make a statement on this date.
I go, OK, I never fucking go.
Never do a statement.
It's like three months goes by.
Yeah. Nothing. I'm like, cool.
You're good. I got away. Yeah.
Right. No, no, no.
I'm fucking cutting trees.
I'm I'm I'm I got on with some dude.
I don't even know how I got the job, but it was like a tree service.
Yeah. So I'm just like grounds, dude, whatever,
from fucked up, whatever. Yeah.
So I see that these like three cars like pull like pulling off
Indian Rocks Road at this house.
And I was like, damn, let's kind of look like cops.
So then they pull in the neighborhood real quick.
They turn around, they jump out and I start running.
Oh, and I got pills on me and I'm fucking eating them.
And then so they got their guns drawn on me.
No. So I get arrested that day.
That was that was February 25, 2007.
So I had to sit in the county for eight months.
I ended up that was like that was my first like getting in trouble kind of deal.
So what do they charge you with?
The home or the arm burglary?
You went in the house, too.
I didn't go in the house. I was in the car.
I mean, that's how it goes.
OK, so if I'm like, I'm like, hey, Danny,
driving the store real quick.
Yeah. He robbed.
You rob it. I see.
But you don't even know.
And I get back in the car.
Yeah, you're fucking you're getting charged with arm robbery, right?
OK, it's your fucking car.
You know what I mean? Yeah, it makes sense.
Yeah, it makes sense. Oh, no, no, no.
So my parents bail me out a week later, right?
They bail me out a week later.
Even though you had eight months.
No, no, no, I didn't do eight months on that time.
OK, OK, I'm sorry. I got I got a mixed up.
OK, this is this is a lot of this is a lot of shit show coming up here.
That's fair. OK, so I get arrested for that a week later.
I fucking finally convinced my parents like you got to let me out.
I'm so fucking like dope sick, like I'm hurting so bad.
So everything fucking sucks.
And then so I get out fucking right back on it.
Let's go hit the doctor.
Let's go do this and that.
So I'm running around this fucking other motherfucker.
We got a shit ton of pills, coke, and we have a ton of money on us.
And I got I'm driving this cattle a Cadillac.
I know we have to get gas.
Yeah. I keep fucking forgetting to get gas.
Fucking run out of gas at Park and Park Boulevard and Seminole Boulevard.
Yeah, OK, that mobile is.
Yeah. So this fucking scrawny,
coked out motherfucker can't push a Cadillac. Right. OK.
So I have to get out and push it.
He's got a suspended license.
So there's a but there's a cop in the mobile parking lot.
He goes, you boys need some help. No, I got it.
So we push the car in and.
He's like, oh, because we look we look fucked.
We look out of fucking minds.
He's like, he's he knows something's going on.
So he's like, well, I guess your IDs.
And I'm like, oh, yeah, here.
And then the dude gives him his and he runs the guy.
OK, so the car is not actually running, but he's driving the car.
And you're pushing. Oh, yeah, right.
So apparently it goes back to.
It goes back to the state of Florida versus Fred Flintstone law.
I was just saying that shit. OK, so.
But I mean, OK, early in the day,
we we bought like these huge box of fucking needles
and we're just shooting up all day and throwing the ones behind us.
OK, in the back seat of the car.
So there's probably like 15 fucking needles laying in the back of the car on the floor.
So and there's he he threw Coke under my seat.
I had pills on me.
And so I ended up getting arrested that day.
So why? Because he runs dudes.
Well, he runs. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
He runs the guy's ID.
And since it's suspended.
Yeah, he's got probable causes to search my car.
Right. Because he's he's driving.
Yeah, no questions about it. Yeah.
So and that motherfucker threw the coke under my seat, too.
So I got I got all the charges that day.
That was another guy.
He got arrested like 20 times, never, never did more than a couple of days in jail.
So that's a little fishy. Yeah. No, I know.
So that happens. So it's a week later.
So now I'm back in.
Ain't nobody fucking bailing me out now.
So I had to ride it out for like eight months.
I was charged with the possession of coke, possession of ox code on that one.
So then.
And I was one of the first times I went and saw him
was through the the video screen video chat at the jail on 49th.
It was like one of the first steps towards our relationship
actually being something's like me and my mom rolling up there
and like talking to him on that.
So pretty cute. Thank you.
I know there's that voice taking you back to those times.
We could take that back to the cell with you and tell your boys about it.
Yeah, sure it is.
I saw it here.
No, it was cool. I mean, I appreciate all that shit.
Yeah, yeah.
So I fucking ride it out for eight months.
Oh, no, no, no. OK, so it goes real fucked up.
So you get a rain.
You get a rain like day or two later when you get arrested.
And then your first court date, like something like mine is probably
I'm probably in there for like two months before I get to the actual court date
where I stand in front of a judge.
I was talking to my parents. I'm like, they're like, do you want to get a lawyer?
I go, uh, no, let me back up.
That was the other time I got that was the next time.
We'll get there. OK, so we're good.
So I ended up going eight months.
They ended up giving me probation.
I forgot how many, how long it was. Yeah.
So I get I get out on probation and the day we got out,
my mom took him straight to like Outback Steakhouse for like
some fucking like surf and turf and blooming.
Fuck yeah. And he's still just like fucking strung out in there.
Just like, I fucking hate everybody. This fucking sucks.
And then like you remember that?
No, no, there's a lot of stuff like I don't remember.
And I remember very vividly taking you to checkers to
on the one by Goose's that's closed down now around here.
And like we're just like in line ordering spicy chickens
and you're still just like wanting to get fucked up.
And you're just like this fucking sucks.
You know, there wasn't even my fault as fucking bullshit.
And you're just like you keep like repeating that same story
about like how it wasn't your fault and how like you didn't deserve
to be in there for that long and how fucked up it was.
Well, yeah, yeah, you you go through that.
Yeah, because I'm fucked up, but I didn't fucking do that shit.
Right. And that next shit, I mean, that was that was because of that.
I mean, that's just kind of how you think, you know what I mean?
But all the fuck is like a chain reaction, all the bad shit you done.
I mean, that leads you to that point.
Right. I mean, you fucking when shit like that happens,
you totally deserve it because you're hanging out with those people.
And if you're not, you know what I'm talking about?
Right. I mean, these are like these are fucking scumbags.
These aren't like dudes that got their shit together and bad shit.
These are like total fucking pieces of shit.
Yeah. I mean, that's what I was at that time.
Yeah. Like, I didn't give a fuck about nobody.
So yeah, a lot of that shit.
I don't remember because I was so fucking high.
Like, yeah, just kind of shit like that.
And then so we keep going like fast forward, kind of just just keep doing
the same shit, get some. Oh, no.
I think I tried to I tried to I went to the doctor and I tried to just sell them
because I just had this thing about fucking working.
I did not like working.
Yeah. Or like being told what to do kind of deal,
which was which has been pretty, pretty rough for all the shit I fucking done.
So, yeah, just just fast forward.
Just kind of just kind of fell right back to like I never went to jail.
Like nothing ever happened.
I'm still getting fucked up just the same as I was. Same vicious cycle.
I tried smoking crack.
I shot up crack a lot more than I was that like, I don't know.
I just shot. I smoked it like once or twice.
Oh, OK. I didn't really like smoking it because I was like,
well, I'm not a cracker. I'm just going to shoot crack.
How did you shoot it all?
Well, I'm not smoking it.
But it's funny, you're just saying it like when you're that fucked up,
you just try to be like, well, it's hard because like a lot of people,
like normal people are like, well, at least I'm not at least I'm not as bad
as they are. But like when you're fucking doing everything, it's like
you just got to you're grasping on to like you're like hanging off a cliff,
hanging, hanging on to like a piece of grass, at least it's not math.
Oh, and that is like probably the only that is the only drug I've never done,
like knowingly, like never bought math, never bought math, never bought math.
I might have done it next to senior.
It might have been in some code, but I never I have never known.
I have never really never knownly done that.
I did not inhale. I didn't inhale.
I shoved it up my ass.
Oh, I'm sorry about my prison pocket.
We're getting there.
Well, what the fuck with the armpit?
Is that a whole air freshener?
Scratch of sniff.
What's it smell like, Luke?
Mahoffers.
Slim Jims.
And if you've ever been to Mahoffers, you know what that smells like.
It's like Slim Jims and Stray Cats.
Had a little bit of bushlight.
Oh, and that photo with me with the pineapple.
Oh, yeah, it's going to be the Mahoffer clone.
It was going to smell like cat piss, Marlboro's and Bush.
Oh, man. Nice.
I'd wear it.
Yeah. So where are we going?
Yeah. So it just the eight months I was out
after after I got out on probation was just same shit.
Yeah, spiraling.
So on I got arrested that first time on February 25th, 2017.
On February 25th, 2018, I had no idea it was one year to the date.
I I had coke, but I didn't do it that night for some reason,
which was I never went to bed with drugs ever.
You always finished.
I always finished it.
I could not keep it at all.
I had to go till it was gone.
So but it was weird.
That morning I woke up super early and I'm like, oh, cool.
I'm going to shoot up cocaine all day today.
So but I thought you had.
Yeah, well, you wake up with the bag.
You're like, yeah, but it's like I was I didn't even have it like a regular
like because when you shoot drugs, you just like an insulin needle.
OK, it's really small. OK.
OK. I only think I had was like what you shoot steroids with
like a big fucking.
What's the difference? Needle sticker.
It's it's the needle that you know, so that is.
OK, so whatever the doctor.
So like a like an insulin like an insulin needle when you're shooting up
regular drugs, I mean, it's like that long.
And it's it's it's it's like smaller than a fucking sewing needle.
Yeah. OK.
A steroid needle is like that fucking long and it's fucking it's pretty girthy.
It's really like one of those McDonald's draws long and girthy.
That wide.
And I don't have a lot of experience with that.
Do you take it from here, Luke?
Or do you take after mom or dad?
Were you talking about girth or.
I thought they called you the tuna can.
The old tuna can James.
Yeah, so yeah.
So I mean, that's fucked.
It's just like your arms are fucked.
I was wearing like long sleeves.
I never I never got like track marks.
But yeah, I would just stick them wherever.
But like you're just kind of just like got polka dots kind of all over.
It was pretty obvious you could see it pretty well.
Yeah, so I wear like long sleeves and then he's always wearing sweaters.
Yeah. And I fuck I never wear sweaters right in Florida.
Yeah, yeah.
So I fucking forgot where we're going with this.
Oh, you were leading up to the second arrest.
Yeah, you woke up with a wake up.
So when I when I woke up, yeah, I mean, that's
that's years and years of drug abuse right there.
Thanks, but that's what he's here for.
So that day, I mean, I was hanging out with this chick just like.
Total Pinellas Park, like homecoming queen.
And we were riding around just kind of shooting up drugs.
And I remember in the seminal motherfucking bathroom
and she's like, you got any more?
I was like, no, I'm like, I can do the bathroom
and like shoot up in the bathroom.
And then something happened, I dropped her off at somebody's house.
And then it just kind of hit me all at once.
Kind of like, what are you doing?
What are you doing with your life?
Like, this isn't you because like people that know me, no, I'm not.
I mean, I'm fucking crazy, but I'm not like that fucking insane,
like with the drugs and all that.
But only knew I was fucked up with the drugs,
but they didn't think I'd really do anything too crazy.
So I just kind of I don't know even
what made me think about it.
I was just like, I want to go.
I want to kill myself, but I'm going to do it by
running in a pharmacy and ODing on the pills.
Kind of deal.
Just kind of OD in the pharmacy.
You just had the idea at Seminole Mall that you want that you.
This was after I dropped the girl off.
I was driving around.
I was out of drugs, too.
Which is how you're out.
So you're on like the.
Yeah, I was out.
I was out of coke.
So when you're coming down off.
I mean, it's it's a shitty feeling.
And then, yeah, it's just it just sucks.
So I'm like, oh, I'm going to run in this pharmacy
that I used to go to all the time.
Just just the same shit.
Like, yeah, you could be like, hey, hey,
could you just front me like 10 of them
till I get my script on in a couple of days?
And then kind of they would do it kind of like there.
I mean, they're all pieces of shit, too.
So yeah, I didn't really feel bad about it.
But I had but I was shooting up.
We didn't have any water bottles in the car.
And you shoot you need like water and stuff to shoot up.
So I had an old thing of fruit punch in my car.
Why do you need water?
When you when you mix it to shoot up drugs.
So you mix the cocaine with water.
Yeah. And you put it in the needle.
That's like, yeah, you draw it out.
That's what makes it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. OK.
That's how you can shoot it.
So I had I had a fruit punch rolling around the car.
I filled the needle up with fruit punch
and I ran in the pharmacy.
What the fuck?
So they yeah, it was fucked, dude.
But so wait, OK, you filled up with fruit punch.
Why? To make it look like blood.
You thought it was blood.
No, no, no, to make it look like blood.
So they thought it was blood.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it was like his weapon going in there with it.
OK. But like how fucked up.
I got my name tattoo tomorrow.
It was my first tattoo when I was 16.
I remember that I ripped my fucking.
I think I ripped a sleeve.
It's all fucked up.
It makes no fucking sense.
I like ripped one of my sleeves off
and put it over my jig tattoo.
They won't know who I am now.
Got the deal.
But I was in.
I remember just standing in the pharmacy
and I couldn't pull the trigger.
I couldn't do it.
And then I was about to walk out.
I was about to turn around and just leave.
And then I something just like totally fucking came over
and he's like, no, motherfucker, we're doing this.
And I was it was kind of a blur from then.
I remember these two chicks in there.
They were freaked out, like the guy that owned it.
They're like, it's in the back.
It's in the back.
So wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
You're standing in the pharmacy like where are you like?
Oh, like in the it's a it's a small shit hole.
I mean, it's just kind of like.
OK, that's probably the only thing
they ever filled prescription wise
was like opiates and shit like that.
You know what I mean?
Kind of deal like that.
It was back it was back in the day
when they were pumping them all out like that.
So I was just standing there just kind of like
because they would have like band-aids
and like kind of weird shit like that.
It was kind of like the the top shelf,
the the food mart right by our house.
Oh, yeah. Nothing in it.
Just kind of like they got some bengue in there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, just like a fucking band-aid and alcohol just
to make it look like a real pharmacy.
Yeah, some gold.
So I was kind of like walking around
waiting for people to leave.
And then that's that's when that happened
to where I was almost like walking out.
And then I just remember turning to like where
where was this needle the whole time?
I probably had it.
I'm not sure 100 percent.
I probably had I probably had it
like in my pocket or something like that.
OK, OK. So then I did I pulled it out.
I said, where are they at?
And they're like they're in the back.
They're all in the back.
And I remember going back in the pharmacy
in the little room where they keep all like the the drugs
kind of locked up. Yeah.
So I didn't know where the fuck they were at.
And it's just like you're just like that shit going on
that too at the same time.
Yeah, I think so.
But it was just like shitty little fucking Home Depot
drawers that were like lock drawers.
So I'm just ripping the fronts of the drawers off
with like with my hands kind of.
And then I finally I'm like looking for the pills
like the Holy fucking Grail.
Like I find the door all in there.
The fountain of youth.
Yeah. So then they have one of these big big huge
like mortar mortar and pistols kind of how they compound
the drugs like you grind up powder and shit like that.
So I remember taking like three three bottles
of the Roxy's, which is like 100 in each bottle
and just dumping them all into this fucking big thing
and fucking just mashing them off just like get some water on this one.
Oh, yeah. No, that's what it looks like.
I kind of wish there was a video of it
because it was so fucking ridiculous what I did.
This you resource a video.
Oh, I kind of do now.
Just so I kind of see it.
Well, what is your plan with the needle?
You're telling I was going to robbing them
or you're killing I just told them what they know.
They know the deal.
I just sort of where is it at?
Where is it at? Right?
And instantly they like because that's all they fucking you have to ask
where you say that's all they pump out of there.
Where is it?
That's all they pump out of there and they know that.
So they're like it's in the back.
Right. Roxy's.
So it's the plan to rob them and get out of there.
No, my plan was to go in and kill myself.
That would be kind of so I get back there
and I'm crushing all these fucking pills up.
I dump water in there.
Trying to fucking
as little as needle, trying to like it's like.
Is there still Kool-Aid in the needle?
No, I push that out.
OK, yeah, yeah.
That's why you drank that first.
That's why I'm thirsty in here.
Oh, God, that's so hot.
That's why but that's why because I had the one needle
and if it was blood, it would have totally like clogged up.
Yeah, kind of deal.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because that's that's another problem
when you're a fucking junkie.
You guys wouldn't know about that.
What?
Just your needles clogging
if there's blood or something in there.
Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So so I'm back there
and I'm trying to draw this these fucking
whatever the fuck I just made into the needle.
Some soup.
But you I couldn't get it.
I couldn't get it out.
It's too thick or it's OK.
So when you when you're shooting up shit,
you you put it in whatever like a spoon or a cap or whatever.
Yeah, you take your cigarette filter, you pull it out.
Right, right, right to filter it.
Ball it up and that's how you filters it
to keep all the keep all the good shit in there.
You know what I mean?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So so you're going no filter.
You're just I'm just trying to and I'm getting mad.
I'm getting mad at first because I'm like,
why isn't this fucking?
I just want to just end this right now.
But then I don't know.
Something came over.
I'm like, I kind of snapped out of it to where I'm like,
what the fuck are you doing?
And I was like, oh, then it's just kind of you come to and you're like,
fuck, man, I fucked up really fucking bad.
And so I didn't know this at the time.
But there was I think there was a 38 a gun handgun in the back
in the back room where I was at.
I was locked in.
They locked you in there.
They were trying to call me.
Tell me like the I think the people the dude that owned the pharmacy.
He was like, Jake, he knew me.
Oh, really?
I mean, so he's like, tell me to come out.
I'm just like, I don't even know why the fuck I was answering the phone.
It was kind of weird.
They're calling the phone.
I never even thought about that.
Yeah, like that, like the landlord called you.
They called like I remember answering the phone in the back room.
No, it was in the it was in this back.
I was in this back room when they kept all their like.
And there was a phone back there.
There was a phone back there and it kept ringing.
I was I don't know why I answered it.
I kept answering it though.
So I'm like, he's telling me to come out and then.
So there was a handgun in the back.
So then they called the cops.
They told him there's a handgun in the back.
But I know about it.
So SWAT team came and it wasn't it didn't take that long for me.
So at this point, you had given up on on trying to kill yourself.
Yeah, no, I kind of snapped out of it.
Just kind of like, oh, man, what the fuck are you doing?
Yeah, you don't eat none of them or anything.
You're just no, you're just waiting for the cops to come.
No. So well, they come and they're the SWAT team comes
and it's banging on the door, like come out.
I'm telling them, fuck you, I'm not coming out
because I'm now I'm just like, oh, man, what the fuck am I going to do?
And then I'm like, well, I'm going to be dope sick as fuck.
So I hid pills to where I could bring him in.
Yeah.
Don't really want to talk about how I brought him in.
Just so I don't I don't I don't want to I don't want to fuck up
anybody else's chance to bring shit into jail.
You should take care of everybody in jail.
Jail sucks.
Yeah. And drugs make you feel a little better.
But anyways, you found a way to snuck sneak them in.
I snuck them in.
How many of them?
I probably had like there had been like 20 of them.
OK, so that probably lasted me like two days.
So this is before they broke down the door or whatever.
No, they didn't actually break down the door.
OK, I know we're jumping ahead a little bit.
But so they're banging on the door, telling me to come out.
I'm telling I'm not coming out.
And then after I figure out how to bring him in and I didn't bring him
in my fucking safety deposit box in the jail purse.
Yeah, in the prison pocket.
Didn't do that.
That's what everybody's probably thinking right now.
For sure.
But I would if I had to.
Yeah, got a lot of space up there.
Yeah. So finally, after I get situated, how I want to do it,
I got what I need.
I'm like, fuck it. I'm like, I'm coming out.
So I tell I I bang on the door back and I'm like, I'm coming out
because I'm like, I'm probably going to get fucking shot.
So I remember opening this this back door
and it's right by the back exit door to like the shop.
And there's there's got to be like 10 or 15
red dots on this fucking back door.
So when I open the door, it swings this way in the exit doors here.
So I just see all these fucking red dots on this back exit door. Oh, my God.
Yeah. So I'm like, so I just out of the doorway,
I just kind of stick my hands out after you saw the red dots.
And I saw the red dots. I go, I go like this.
I'm like, I'm coming out.
And then so I just try to go like, I'm like, all right,
let me see what I'm doing, the movies or something like that.
So I just kind of like, I'm coming out because you don't know what to fucking do.
There's just so much going on.
It's like kind of don't want to get shot.
I mean, I tried to kill myself, but I didn't want to do it.
So definitely don't want to like right here.
So I finally get out and I had sweatpants on too.
So I fucking turn out, I turned around, put my hands on my head
and then they fucking bum rushed me.
I mean, my fucking pants are around my fucking knees.
My little coke dicks flopping around fucking everywhere on the floor.
But it's just like, what's a coke dick?
It's like, you ever seen one of those old school door stoppers?
Yeah.
It's like that, but smaller.
So, yeah, so then I'm sitting in the back of the cop car,
like in front of this fucking pharmacy.
I remember Bay News 9 coming there
and you're just sitting there in the fucking back of a cop car, no tent.
Just like fishbowl.
And then all your thing, I'm like, all I'm thinking about is like,
God damn, I'm like, am I going to like ever get out again?
And because I was 24 when that happened.
I was 18. Yeah, yeah. 19.
No, you were 20, buddy.
That was 20, buddy.
That was funny.
So you're sitting in the back of this cop car in front of the fucking pharmacy,
people all around, news there and you're like, cool, like
feel like just a total piece of shit because I wanted to keep you in the car.
I was probably out front of the pharmacy for like two or three hours
because I got to do like all this shit and then they fucking probably take you.
But I was sitting in the car kind of like away from everybody,
but like everybody's walking by you, looking in and it was just kind of like,
fuck you, motherfucker.
Bay News 9 comes up, I was like, how do you feel about what just happened?
How do you feel about your performance in there?
Just leave me alone. I'm trying to kill myself.
So we're going to jail and then like that's all that's kind of running
through my mind is like how long I'm going to be gone for kind of deal.
And then and then I was like, oh, dude, you know, it's so fucked too.
So we get in a book, I get booked.
Well, we go in and you get like strip search kind of depend.
Pends on cavity search.
No, they don't never.
They don't cavity search you. OK.
If they feel like you've stuck something in something,
they'll put you in a room
to where there's like no running water until you like shit or something like that.
So they know, yeah, they'll put you in confinement like by yourself something.
Yeah. So like that like that.
But I mean, you get butt ass naked.
You didn't request the cavity search.
I did. They told me to fuck off.
Here's a baloney sandwich and some apple juice instead.
Yeah, but it's I mean, it's I mean, but now like it's kind of like I've been
I've been stripped so much like I don't really don't give a fuck.
I would kind of actually battle.
Well, we'll get to that later, too.
I would battle if you were the guard and I was me,
we would both try to make each other more uncomfortable as possible.
So like what would you do?
Well, here, let me let me get what
let me get what fish the story.
So I get a book, I get strip search.
You get your clothes back and then you're in booking.
You're in central booking where they do your fingerprints and your photos.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, Pinellas County Jail is so fucked.
Fuck you, you fucking cocksuckers.
Thank you. And then so you're probably I was probably down there for like 20 hours
and you're in this room, the concrete room, no windows
and just for for less than lights.
Like you do not know what fucking time it is, but just on the clock on the wall.
Right. But if it says eight, you're like,
one or two, that's eight in the morning or eight at night.
You're right. So there's a there's a one bathroom.
And there's a guard stand right outside of it that you can go use.
But it's like there's no stalls, no nothing.
And then I was like, well, I'm kind of getting dope sick.
So I was like, I wonder if I can.
I fucking crushed up a fucking Roxy in this bathroom.
And thank God, nobody walked in when I was doing it and fucking started it.
While I was in Booking's bathroom.
Damn, I just did.
I didn't give a fuck, dude.
Like, right? And they got the door with the little window.
They could see what are you going to add?
Five more years under my sentence.
Yeah. Yeah. Run it. Run it together.
I mean, it's the same shit. Whatever. Yeah.
Wrap it up, bitch. Yeah.
So yeah, then you finally go to jail.
I fucking I knew a bunch of people I went in the cell with
because I'd fucking just left there fucking. Yeah.
Four months, four, four months ago.
You know what I mean? So so then you got to deal with that.
It's like it's like a fucking walk of shame, dude.
I was high for two days, feeling good.
Because you had that stash that you brought with you.
I didn't even call anybody until I ran out of pills.
Because I mean, it was super embarrassing for me, too.
Like, after everything kind of wore off with the drugs.
And then I knew that you knew that it was probably all over the news, too.
Right. Oh, yeah.
So it would come on. I was in the pod.
They got TVs in these spots.
That's another memory.
I go, oh, man, I hope nobody fucking recognizes me.
I swear, dude, I was on the news for like three fucking days, man.
Yeah, it was a it was a slow newsweek in Seminole.
Yeah, you heard about it, too.
Yeah, I heard about it, too.
Yeah, I was working. I was working construction.
And I was like riding in a van to Sarasota in the back of a van
with a bunch of other Mexican dudes.
And it was like six in the morning and it was on Bubba the Love Sponge.
And they said, Jake James, I'm like, no fucking way.
I know I text Luke and he's like, yep, yep.
And mom called me.
Well, no, no, no, because Bubba would do that a lot about the news.
And I've listened to Bubba since I loved it, like fucking like.
Religiously, right? Yeah.
And then I don't shout out to Ned. Yeah.
Only Ned is real.
He's the only real person.
Yeah. So then it's like, oh, Bubba's talking to shit.
Well, fuck you, you fat piece of shit.
Yeah.
And then as soon as he look at you now, Bubba, I'm on the radio and you ain't.
Oh, fuck.
You know, double fisted Bluejay on the back side of McGillicuddy.
Yeah. So, um, yeah, just dealing with that, being dope sick.
Like, yeah, I would trade my whole fucking trays for like juice.
Your whole what?
My whole like, you get fed like three times a day.
Oh, OK. Shitty fucking meals.
Yeah, I could not eat anything.
I would for like a week, I would just trade.
I would just drink juice.
I would just trade my trays for like people's juice.
You probably even have an appetite, huh?
No, you're like, you're just like shit in your brains out, not hungry.
Diarrhea, cold, hot.
Just fuck, dude.
It's just like you're a little it's like you're a little fucking baby.
Yeah. Just curled up in a corner.
How long did that last for?
It took like it took like a month.
And I did that twice.
And like, that's how fucked up it was.
Like the first time I went like went through that and then to get out
and like do the same shit.
It's like that just shows you like I'm either really fucked up
or that shit's really fucked up.
So the only time you went through like a true detox was like when you're in prison.
Because I remember mom and dad put you through some like like medically induced.
Yeah, I don't know what the fuck I don't know why that was.
Yeah, but it was you in a coma for a couple of days
and then you detox and you wake up.
Yeah, it was weird, but you know that suffering.
But wow, you have to feel that suffering, dude.
Oh, hell yeah, you.
Because like, oh, that's when I tried.
That's when I was selling them for like two months and then I started doing them again.
And I think that's a really important thing, I think to hit on is like
if you don't feel that suffering, like when you're trapped in that
that darkness that you've created around yourself then you don't really know
the pain that you have to go through to feel it.
So you go through it like they just sleepwalking pretty much.
And then you have no reason not to do it again
because like, oh, well, whatever, I can just like numb myself to numbing myself.
And it's just like this continuation of blocking out
things that you have to go through to progress as a person.
Yeah, no, you need pain to grow.
I mean, if you don't feel pain, you got to suffer the consequences.
You know, you don't learn like it's just like the whole fucking touching the stove thing.
Yeah, yeah, you got to feel pain to to grow and get past it.
But that's how fucked up this place was like before we went,
you have like your meeting with these people.
It's just all a fucking scam.
So they're like, they're like, oh, do you need pills?
Like they gave me a shit ton of fucking like oxycontin 80s before
because I was like, oh, I'm sick.
And they're like, oh, we're rich as script.
And then like in jail and no, no, no, no.
This was like at this detox place.
This was this was I forgot even when that was prescribed you Adderall too.
Well, yeah.
So you go through this detox thing.
So it's like it's like a day or whatever.
So you wake up and you're not you're not dope sick.
I don't I don't even know what the fuck it is.
It gives like you some opiate blockers or whatever that and they like claim
that like if you take opiates again, you'll die.
Oh, no, that's when Suboxone started coming out because they put me on Suboxone.
But what's that?
It's a it's an opiate blocker, but people take them to get high on them.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's supposed to be to help you get off.
But if you take opiate pills, they don't work.
Yeah. So like you're taking Suboxone.
If you take like if you do heroin or fucking oxy's, you're not going to get high from it.
OK, kind of deal.
So it kind of but it makes you from not being dope sick to kind of you're
still fucking weird and good.
But yeah, it's a weird thing.
Yeah. So I go through this detox and when I get out, they prescribe me.
He prescribes me Adderall, Valium.
He's what I mean.
I get it too. No, no, no.
He didn't give me an opiate.
It was like four or five different other pills.
But with me, I'm like, I fucking love pills.
Right. So you're.
Oh, this is this is amazing.
Yeah. So then, I mean, but it didn't work.
I think that lasted like a couple of weeks or something like that.
And I was pretty much, oh, no, because they told me they told me,
don't do coke because you'll probably die.
I think I did coke like four days after that and a lot of a lot of fucking coke.
I was up in the fucking mutt room, like a bunch of coke all night.
I remember one time mom went on like the family computer
and like the latest Google search was symptoms of coke overdose.
She told you that.
Yeah. She showed me the needle that like she had found.
Oh, do you think Jake's doing drugs again?
Like, what's not mine?
Can I phone a friend?
Maybe. Well, Jake might have diabetes.
What's his blood sugar?
Yeah, I was fucked, man.
I mean, that's like what I'm saying.
There's so many fucking things that happen that I probably
I don't remember. I just knew I would need a little kickstart.
Yeah. Oh, my.
They make it very easy to be an addict in the state of Florida.
They do. And, you know, like when you love somebody,
you'll do anything you can to make them not feel pain.
Yeah. Everybody's just like, and, you know, it's like,
it gets to the point where it's like you're enabling this person,
but you don't realize it because like you don't want to help them.
You don't know what this person wants.
And anything that you respond to positively,
they'll give to them because they're actually interacting with you
in a way that isn't just like, fuck you. Can I get money?
Fuck you. I don't need you in my life.
I hate you. Everything I'm doing is because of you.
And, you know, it it pains you to see somebody suffering like that.
And you never truly understand the darkness that they feel.
And you just want them to do well.
And the best thing that you can do is just let them go through it
and just be there when they need you. Yeah. Yeah.
I always think when I think about how suffering makes people better,
is like they say that the native, the native Indians would take their
newborn babies and they would dunk them in the ice cold river
when they're like literally like months old to build up their immune system.
Speaking of good immune systems, I probably have not been sick in five years.
I think I think everybody should go to prison for at least six years.
Is that true? I do not get sick.
Like if I catch a cold, I'll feel it for like two hours and I'll get tired.
And I'm like, I'll cough up some green. I'm good to go.
That's it. It's like a single cough.
So I could probably I could probably if you took my blood right now,
it's probably the cure for AIDS.
And why you just because you build out of just just just being so fucking dirty.
Yeah, they're fucking shitholes, dude. Like, yeah.
Wow. Yeah, like I do not get sick.
Jails in public transportation are the best way to build your immune system.
Yeah. No self-respecting mosquito would fucking bite you. Not at all.
So then so are you you go to the county jail?
Yeah, for those for that for the oh, yeah, for that charge.
So so on the on the big charge. So I'm in county.
They they actually can I take a piss real quick?
Well, these like keyboard warriors, these like these like 40 year old
metal in their fucking mom's basement was like giving her a hard time
because she put out like neon, you know, like Celtic Frost put out the neon
like the cold lake and are we recording? Yeah.
Yeah, I'd like to go on the record and say if you're involved with metal,
sucks at all. In any way, shape or form, you can fuck off and die
because you're not doing anything to progress heavy metal.
Why? Why is that because they shit on anybody who's trying to do anything
original, unique and fun like Anna, who's making all these bad ass t-shirts
who's going out of her way to keep these legacies alive.
And just because these big bands aren't profiting directly off of them,
then that means nobody can. Yeah.
Well, shout out, shout out to forever street metal, bitch.
Forever Street. Is that our Instagram tag?
Yeah, that's her Instagram.
She she puts out shit a few times a year.
Just follow her. She has rad shit.
Different. What was the website?
It's that they said that website, the Instagram tag.
I said, fuck metal sucks. Metal sucks.com. Dot net.
They can't even afford a dot com.
They were the first ones to post the Cannibal Corpse video we did.
Yeah, they posted a comedy video back. Oh, I remember that.
Yeah, or that. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was they're standing in front of Janice landing.
And then we filmed them. Nick was in it. Yeah, Nick was in it.
Oh, where was I?
Prison from the fucking jail.
Yeah, I was a lot.
No, I'm not surprised.
I don't remember. I was either really fucked up or in prison.
I really only remember the last five years of my life.
Oh, the way I like to think about it is I spent my first 24 years on retirement.
Oh, no, actually 30.
And then so I got to pretty much work till I die now. Yeah.
Oh, fuck.
But so, yeah, now you're in fucking prison.
And you I mean, so when did you find out how long you're going to stay here?
And you're in your account.
Oh, no, you're in the county now.
So I get a rain.
This was what I was talking about earlier.
Get a rain.
I think I get a court date in like two months.
You have a lawyer.
No, OK, so this is the part I was telling about.
So my my mom was like, do you want a lawyer?
And I was like, no, they got me like dead to right.
Just oh, I mean, I'm guilty.
There's no way there's no fighting it.
That's got with the fucking.
So I was like, I'll just stick with a public defender, like don't waste the money
because it's a it's like a like the higher your felony is,
like pretty much that's how much the lawyer is going to charge you that much more.
Yeah, it's kind of a deal.
So I go to court the first day and usually like.
That's it's usually nothing.
It's usually a waste of they just set you another day.
It's yeah, pretty much.
So you usually do that for like a few times before they come out
you with an offer, like where the state will come with you,
like plead guilty today and get this many years or do whatever
probation and all that shit.
So the first day I walk into court, I even told my parents, I was like,
I even told everybody don't come because it's it's going to be a waste of time.
So I go in there and they're like.
All right, Jake James, state of Florida versus Jake James,
I list all my charges.
The state sits there and I mean, yeah, it looks super bad on fucking paper,
but they were like they're going back to when I'm 16 for a smoking of tobacco citation.
Wow.
And like they're just they're just trying to make me look like I fucking kill babies.
And they paint you as bad as they can.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So so judge is like, all right, state, what do you want to do?
Let's set this for trial next month on blah, blah, blah date.
Judge goes, we already have a trial set for the afternoon.
State goes, oh, that's fine for the afternoon of that day for the day
that they said that they scheduled the it's like a pretrial.
This was like, OK, so they they scheduled the the trial for
they told me to take 15 years today.
Or if I don't, they're scheduling trial for next month on this date.
So that date, the judge says, we already have a trial set in the afternoon.
State goes, oh, don't worry, this will take like a half an hour.
And when he loses, we're giving him 35 years.
So I'm like, oh, OK.
Oh, this sucks.
Well, I guess we're sending it for trial.
So I went back.
I went back to the pod so I could use the phone and I called my mom.
I was like, we got to get a lawyer.
I'm going to be gone forever.
You know what I mean?
Because I'm 24 years old.
I think 30 years old is a senior citizen.
Right. Right. You know what I mean?
When you're younger. Yeah.
When you're 24. Yeah. Oh, hell, yeah.
Yeah. So I was like, Jesus fucking Christ, dude.
So we get the lawyer.
And it was 60 by the time I got out of here.
Yeah. So it was I mean, it was a good lawyer.
So we kept pushing it back.
They kept they kept wanting me to take 15 years, like every month,
kind of when I went to court.
And I mean, just just hearing the 15 years for so long.
Yeah.
But there was a lot of shit that happened in between.
I I just I've tried probably.
OK, so the the max part of the jail in Pinellas is so like overcrowded
that you sleep on these boats, like new guys that would come in.
You sleep on these boats and they don't fucking take your beds.
All you fucking tough guys out there like that.
You just fucking do whatever.
So I'm out in this day room.
So it's like it's all cells at night.
So it's supposed to be everybody's in their cell at night from, I think,
like from 11 to five or something like that at night.
But I'm in the day room.
There's no room for anybody.
There's people out in the day room and I'm walking around.
It's like it's probably like one, two in the morning.
I'm kind of walking around. I'm kind of pissed.
The guards telling me to lay down.
I keep telling them, fuck you.
I was like, come in here and make me fucking lay down pretty much.
So they fucking take me out of that cell and they put me in a bigger one.
And I do the same thing.
I'm like, well, I'm not fucking going in a cell. Fuck you.
I'm like, come in here and make me fucking go in the cell.
Yeah. So.
But then I remember one of my buddies I grew up with over in Largo.
He he goes, Jake, get your dumb ass in this fucking cell.
Like I grew up with him like in middle school and shit like that.
So I'm like, all right, cool.
So another time, like they because they just fuck with you, man.
Like their pieces of shit, dude.
They're you know what I mean?
They just they live.
Some of them live to fuck with you.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
So so like it's just like you kind of just have enough, dude.
And it's like you're so stressed out.
Like I'm going to get am I going to get like I'm not.
It's like it's hard, dude.
It's hard to be like, OK, yeah, I'm going to here.
I'm going to do 15 years.
Yeah, let me sign this fucking piece of paper.
I mean, it's fucking it's hard.
It's it's like it's really fucked, especially when you're younger.
You know what I mean?
So this one time I tried to fight a cop.
He was he was acting like he wanted to fight.
And then I tried and then he's kind of backed off, hit the panic button.
They they lock weapons, don't they?
No, they only have Mace.
They have Mason taser guns.
So we we'd act really fucking tough until they pull the tasers out
with like the ones that fucking shoot you with the prongs.
You're like, OK, where do you want me to lay down?
You know what I mean?
Kind of shit like that.
And then just so like that, I go to confinement, get out.
And then this one time they were because you have locked down at shift change.
So like in Max, there was there was two shifts.
It was 12 hour shifts.
So before a shift started, what do you mean?
OK, so when you say Mac, what does that mean?
The the maximum security part of the jail kind of deal.
So you weren't like in a prison.
No, this was this was still county jail.
OK, got you.
So you're you're you're in county jail until you get sentenced kind of deal.
So you're you're super fucking guilty until you're proven guilty.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like they take everything away, like innocence,
so proven guilty is fucking bullshit.
Oh, for sure. Yeah.
They take they strip everything fucking away from you.
And then so I just you got another thing.
And they treat they treat you like fucking animals.
So that's how fucking motherfuckers act in there.
Right. Like fucking just like just stripped down like fucking cavemen.
So a shift change happens.
They're supposed to count.
They can't make sure everybody's still there.
That's supposed to be there.
And then they leave, but they close the cells and then
that shut all the TVs, everything off so you can't do shit.
And it's usually like 30, 40 minutes somewhere in there in the in the county.
But these these cocksuckers kept us in there for like two hours.
So I fucking get everybody fucking riled up.
We're fucking we're thrown like because it's all
trying to explain how these fucking they're they're small fucking rooms
like a day room, and then you got the cells on the back.
So and it's all like plexiglass windows so they can see you.
So we start hanging sheets like over the bars to where they can't see us.
And we're throwing we're just throwing like wet paper towel
toilet paper fucking wads at the windows.
We're just like chunking shit.
And they get me and like two other dudes for like inciting a riot.
So they put me on this shit called
administrative segregation to where they could put you in confinement
for however long they want with no because usually if you get in trouble,
you get it's like a fucking principal referral.
Yeah. And then you go to you go to the principal and they tell you, OK,
well, whatever you do, you get 30 days down in down in fucking confinement.
But with this shit, it's however long they fucking want to keep you down there.
Wow. So you're in like a solitary.
Yeah, by yourself.
Well, the way the county jail was, it was it's like another big pod.
But you're like you're in a cell by yourself.
Right. Oh, so it's just like you and a bunch of other fucking pieces of shit,
just like you fucking try to fucking pass the time.
And it sucks.
So they had they brought me down and these fucking these motherfuckers hated me.
They they handcuffed me.
They put they like they put all your shit in a trash bag,
like all your fucking commissary where the fuck you have.
These got they squirted like all my shampoo all over all my shit in the bag.
Just kind of like shook it up.
They are there.
A guy walks me down in the cells open and there's fucking shit all over
this fucking cell.
And I go, you're not fucking put me in there.
And he goes, oh, we'll send somebody down here to clean it up.
It's like, I know that's a fucking lie.
You you're not going to fucking trick me.
I'm not going in that cell.
So I got my feet like against the fucking doorway of the cell.
Yeah.
Pushing back at him.
I'm not going fucking in here, dude.
Like I'm ready to fucking.
Right. I'm not going in this cell.
You're going to fight.
And he's trying to he's trying to like get me to come in there
just so he's throwing me in a fucking cell full of shit.
Right. Little shit.
Like there's shit all over the walls, all over everything that
because there's a lot of crazy motherfuckers.
Yeah, right. Right.
And that's a whole other fucking story.
That's so fucking gross.
Yeah. So so he finally gives in.
It puts me in a normal cell.
So I mean, as you just like shown in this fucking confinement,
you're like, OK, this is cool.
You're pretty much just like jerking off and doing pushups.
That's it. That's it.
That's it. And do some lunges for how long?
Yeah. How long do they give you?
I was I was in there.
Well, that was like towards the end right before I got sent.
So I think I did a little over a month in there. OK.
And then but that I mean, that shit's gross.
So like they fucking whip up shit with piss in a cup.
And like if you're fucking the dude like next to you,
doesn't he gets mad at you for some fucking reason?
Because I remember one day he was I saw somebody doing that.
And then I saw him see him throw this cup in this guy's cell.
Like because you can kind of because it's kind of like an L kind of deal.
So like this guy in this cell got mad at this guy.
Yeah. Yeah.
Seeing him throws like that.
And I was like, that's weird.
Why would he throw coffee in his cell?
But then all of a sudden you like fucking you smell it.
It hits you. Oh, yeah.
And then they send these motherfuckers over like bot buckets,
like other inmates are called trustees.
Yeah, like the fucking good dudes.
Yeah, whatever.
So and then they just dump like hot soapy water.
So the fucking shitty soap water just runs into everybody's cell.
So you're just like, oh, my God, you're just like on top of your bunk.
Just like, man, I should have made way better life choices.
And like that was probably the first time in my life where I was like,
you know what?
Now, I know exactly what my parents were talking about.
Another man at that moment.
It all sunk in.
So my last quarter river of shitty soap.
So I like talked to my lawyer.
I was supposed to go get sense this day.
So when you have a court date, they they get you up at like three in the morning.
It's this big fucking ordeal because the jail, you like go underground
and then you go into the courthouse kind of deal.
So I'm like, ready to go, ready to get sentenced.
And then like nothing.
I'm like, God, I'm like, this is fucking weird.
I even woke up fucking at like three o'clock in the morning.
Yeah, because I was kind of excited to get the fuck out of County Jail
because that's all you hear in County Jail.
Prison is way fucking better.
Oh, really?
Everybody wants to just get out of there.
It totally is, though.
Really? Yeah.
I mean, if I had to do the two, I would totally be prison.
Yeah, I've had to pick if I had to do one of the other.
I would definitely do prison.
But but yeah, so I'm sitting there and it's like 11 o'clock.
I'm like, what the fuck?
And you're in confinement so you can't call anybody.
You can't you can't talk to anybody.
And finally, they come and
they put me in a room with my lawyer and he's like, what the fuck did you do?
I go, what? I didn't do nothing.
I just been fucking sitting down in confinement, like rotten away.
Yeah. So he's like, yeah.
But some guard, like I guess they must have put me on some like weird,
like like they have me like kind of red flag to where I'm a threat
to where they had to like bring me out by myself, kind of like
not like Hannibal Lecter, like nothing like that.
But like I had to be moved by myself.
Yeah. No, I know.
It's like, yeah, but I look they wheel you out on this.
Yeah, but I looked I looked fucking insane when I got fucking sent in.
So I bet I know I did.
I was just like, I haven't shaved like hairs fucking all crazy.
And then my lawyer is like, well, this is the best we can do.
We they went down to seven years and I was like, let's fucking do it.
Because like you just you've heard 35 years, then 15 years for so long.
Right. Yeah. You're like that's that's a whole fucking game.
They call it the boo like everybody all the inmates, they call it the boo game.
Because that's like they 35 years, 15 years, 15 years.
And they're in there for months, like almost a whole year of hearing
you're getting 15 years and then they finally like seven years.
Damn, that sounds fucking awesome.
Yeah. And that's what they do.
It's like a fucking gift wrap because you get present on Christmas morning.
Yeah. And it's I mean, it's it's fucked.
I mean, that's it's all a game in the shit's all a joke.
Yeah, it really fucking is.
They beat you down psychologically and they hit those numbers.
That's what it is, man.
And then it was like, you know, 35, 35, 35, 15, 15, 15, 15.
And then they hit you with that, which is still way too high.
And they shouldn't even give you that in the first place.
And they should like actually address the problems
that got you in there in the first place.
Yeah. The people rubbing shit on the walls
in there, they don't need to be in a prison with all these people
who are in there for like drug abuses.
Those people need attention.
They need help to understand why they're doing that.
Oh, yeah, but they jailed.
They jailed like people like that, like that don't need to be fucking jailed.
But a lot of people, I don't know, it's fuck.
You should just kill child molesters and let everything else is fine.
Legalize everything else.
Yeah, that's fine.
So I mean, so after you got the seven years, what happened next?
So you wait.
So I had to go back to confinement
and then I'm just I'm I'm actually really fucking excited now.
It sucks. I got seven years to go somewhere new.
I can go to a new chapter.
What's a new chapter I can get?
I finally know what I got to do.
I can fucking I can walk around outside.
I can fucking smoke cigarette.
I mean, that's all I'm worried about.
Like I can fucking smoke cigarettes and walk around outside here.
Sign me up. Yeah, let's go because you're fucking you're inside all the time.
There's no windows or outside time in county.
I mean, there's windows like this big, but it I didn't like looking outside
because it was so close to home that it kind of it like hurt looking outside.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
Right. You know that 49th Street.
Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, that kind of sucks.
And then you can't you get a little more freedom
being up the road like that than being in the county jail.
So I remember so you go to these
so they usually takes a few like three, four days
because they do a couple of runs a week to go to prison.
So I went to Orlando and
if you have like any self-conscious anything about you,
that shit is gone, dude, so you fucking you're in the you're in the van.
You go to Orlando, they're just pretty much beating you down,
treating you like a piece of shit, taking away everything you are.
Just you fucking you're outside with a chain link fence
in a horseshoe and there's probably like, I don't know, I'd say 30 to 40
dudes standing there, butt ass naked, just like, it's okay.
You know what I mean? Really?
And like everybody's kind of been up all night
because you know the nights they do prison runs. Yeah.
And you're kind of like, I hope this is it or I don't.
Right. This is going to fucking suck because I had no idea.
I mean, you fucking watch TV shows and shit like that.
You don't know what to expect. Right.
Kind of deal. And I didn't really know anybody.
My uncle was the only one I went to prison with,
but I didn't really fucking talk to him about it
because he found God and all that good shit. Right.
The only thing you know about prison is don't drop the soap.
But oh, yeah, beyond that.
Yeah. Yeah. So you get in this thing and they they just they just
call you all kinds of names.
Should you like piece of shit?
You can't do nothing. I mean, you can't you could.
But it's fucking pointless,
dude, because they'll beat the fuck out of you.
You know what I mean?
Like they'll handcuff you and just beat the fuck out of you.
So you do that. You get naked.
You get strip searched and you just you just wait and you with your property.
You got to get your fucking everybody gets their fucking head
and face shaved with like the same fucking nasty fucking papers.
You get your ID.
Just fucking everybody's calling you need to go through medical
and do all this fucking shit.
And then I remember finally get to go to my fucking dorm.
And I was just like, I remember laying on my bunk on the top bunk
and just looking at the fucking ceiling and be like,
all right, there we go.
You know what I mean? Here's the start.
Yeah. So it's like seven.
I had eight months in.
So I figured with the game time,
I kind of I was betting on my game time.
I never wouldn't buy the whole thing.
So I was like, all right, we got over five years to go.
I'm like, OK, five years.
So they call. I remember I just made it in time for like for Chow
and I'm like, I don't want to go.
I'm like, I was just kind of like just laid down and like this dude,
this dude I ended up running into at a couple of camps I was at.
He's like, come on, motherfucker.
They got yard bird tonight.
I'm like, fuck yard bird yard bird.
It's they had chicken like a couple of times here.
So I'm like, oh, wait, what chicken?
So when I first went in, they had they had actually like they had real food.
Like because you go from county, county is just like it's like Alpo, man.
It's so bad. The food like dog food is so fucking bad.
So by the time I get in, it was like six months of like real food.
Like food was actually it was decent.
You know what I mean? Yeah.
And then like every time a fucking new governor comes in, I fuck those boys.
It's not a fucking country club.
So we got all soy products, all real soy products.
Everything was fucking soy.
Well, yeah, because it was cheaper.
But dudes aren't supposed to eat soy because it's a fucking it's a estrogen.
Right, right. It gives you like tits. Well, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I got two of those things.
Thanks for the DOC.
They took one out.
They told me they told me to go fuck myself on the second one.
But yeah. Wow.
Yeah. So, uh, yeah, I mean, it's just it's just miserable.
They just make it miserable.
Kind of just bullshit, man.
That's why I don't know.
We would just do like the dumbest shit.
I mean, I just kind of would act like I am now.
But did you get all your tattoos when you were in there?
Not all of them.
I probably have like seven or you're completely covered.
I probably had like seven or eight.
Yeah. When I went in, but there's not a lot to do.
I played I played poker all the time.
I read, I worked out and yeah, I got tattoos.
OK, I'm just kind of kept to myself.
At what point did you start like getting close to Luke?
Um, it was a couple of years in, probably, right?
It was a couple of years in.
And what made you actually talking to him?
What made you want to?
Yeah, fucking Jesus Christ.
Now that he's gone, I miss him.
I want you want. You can't have. Is that what it was?
Yeah. Right.
Well, it's your brother.
I need to prepare for for this.
You guys want to shotgun a beer shotgun?
Is it that time? Let's do it.
Fuck. It's a good segue.
And then we'll have this.
We'll have to touch on the shotgun legend that you are as well.
I heard that. I heard that.
I heard that you don't even spill a drop.
Oh, fuck, I just cracked it.
You fucking dumbass.
You better choke that one and then shotgun.
Deadhead.
You want a shotgun one, Katie?
You're you're breaking the third wall.
Is that what that is?
Katie's like, this is like a fucking
it's like an episode of
locked up abroad for her.
She's like, holy shit.
Katie's like, get me the fuck out of here.
Totally regret coming tonight.
Jake is the shotgun master.
Oh, oh, Jesus.
Oh, fuck, it's everywhere.
This takes. Oh, fuck.
Oh, it's your first time.
Boys, Mother Trucker.
Hey, Pokemon, just poke it for me.
Here, take this one.
All right, fair enough.
Just poke it.
Poke it up.
Because you got the nice triangle.
You got it all.
I know what I'm doing.
It's not as much as you got the angle.
Danny's got his upside down.
Fuck him.
He's doing over there.
I got.
Yeah, great.
It's a good start.
Have you seen the videos where they you're like, so say me and
Shane are doing it and then.
Oh, and they blow it?
Oh, and they blow it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Instead of like you pop it and you say.
They aim it at you and blow the whole beer in your face.
Oh, my God.
What the fuck?
You guys ever seen that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've seen them.
We're not doing it.
You want to do it?
No, no, no.
I mean, I always want to do that.
I mean, I always want to do that.
All right, well, cheers, boys.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Cheers.
Oh, yeah.
Have we can only have the macho man for this one?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, my God.
We should have that Anthony.
Macho man, nasty savage.
Oh, my God.
This whole room's going to fucking wreak like beer.
Force is going to be pissed.
It smells like my underwear.
He gets mad at me.
He's like, I don't even smoke cigarettes in here.
Who's Forrest?
He's the guy that owns the building, the rest of the building.
God, I knew some fucking weirdo named Forrest.
He's a little imperial.
It's probably him.
Is he your age?
Yeah.
Jewish with sideburns.
Red hair?
No, black hair.
No, this dude was like super cocky.
So I doubt he didn't.
No, it's definitely not him.
Okay.
Now I need a real big beer.
Now I need a sipper.
Need a casual one from time to time.
Now I need something to just coast up.
We forgot to hit the bow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
We forgot to hit the bow.
Wow.
Wow.
Hey, Bubba, can we use that?
Because you ain't doing shit no more.
Bubba, please don't copyright strike me.
Oh yeah, where were we?
I forgot.
Where did we leave off?
We're about to talk about how me and you started talking.
Oh yeah, how'd you guys...
Well, he would come up to see me, but I don't know that...
Even before that...
How long does it go by to your first visit?
Well, I went and saw him in County, and we tried to hang out in between.
And, you know, you can't be around people that are wrapped up and stuff like that.
You try to spend holidays together.
He comes up, he's fucked up.
He doesn't know what he's doing.
You just have to understand that.
Give him a space, and then...
I don't know, I remember exactly where I was when my mom called me.
Just like when you see a train coming down the tracks.
You don't go stand in front of that.
Stop what you're doing!
You just wait as it goes by.
It's like running into the middle of traffic and trying to stop every car that's going by you.
It's useless.
You're just going to destroy yourself.
So you just got to accept the things that are going to go past you.
And it's like, hopefully we'll meet up again one day.
And, you know, time goes by and I'm living my life.
And I remember when my mom called me and...
There was a time in my life where every time my mom called me,
I expected her to tell me that your brother's dead.
Yeah.
And it was like a solid like four years,
any time I'd get a call from her, whether it was good or bad,
I always expected the first words out of her mouth to be like,
Jake's dead.
Yeah, but I can't die, so...
You can't die?
He's a fucking cockroach.
No, I should have been dead like a million times.
I should have been dead.
And I had accepted that.
And it's like, I just accepted the fact like I had a brother growing up,
but I never had a brother growing up.
And it was just somebody that was sharing this experience of me
living in the same space, coming from the same space,
but we never really like had a connection because we were always just so different.
And when he went to...
I was going to make jail or prison?
Prison.
When like you go away and like where you were at for like a couple of years?
Prison.
It's prison.
Yeah, yeah.
Like some time had passed.
And I think I just like asked for your address or whatever.
And I just like started writing you letters.
Yeah.
No, it was awesome because it's like even fucked up,
but like people you used to hang out with,
like you didn't do nothing wrong to them,
but they see how fucked up you are.
So everybody starts backing away.
They cut you off.
Yeah.
Everybody just starts backing away.
And then that's when you start like falling back toward all these other months.
Like you're doing the same shit.
Like it's like the fucking junkie scene or something.
You know what I mean?
Just kind of you fall back into that crowd because nobody gives a fuck what you do.
They don't care if you're dead or alive.
Right.
You know what I mean?
And all that shit falls away and like,
and I kind of saw the opportunity to have the brother that I always wanted.
And I remember very vividly,
I got this Simpsons Anatomy book that teaches you how to draw every character from the Simpsons.
And I remember drawing this like picture of Homer
and then just like writing the note in it about like,
hey, remember when like we used to like watch the Simpsons and like eat checkers
and like hang out and like all this shit?
Eat checkers.
I really miss you.
I would make him actually eat checker pieces.
Not checkers.
Yeah, it was actual checkers.
Oh, yeah.
I didn't eat them.
Yeah.
Well, I didn't eat them.
He like shoved them up my ass and would like laugh about it.
Yeah.
And then throw me off the roof into the pool.
But no, like I...
You're about chug checkers.
I love what a big Buford's just riding up there.
The big Buford.
I mean, would you like lay down like that little rug,
the checkers rug and the fucking pieces or like that?
The cracker barrel checkers.
Yeah, the cracker barrel.
The gofties.
We just fucking...
I'm trying to tell you.
We just shit all over his heartfelt story.
My bad.
We shouldn't have shot him before that.
It's cool.
I've been doing it my whole life.
This is the problem with our relationship.
Like you're drawing Homer Simpson.
You're drawing Homer Simpson.
No, it's like anytime I like try to like talk,
he just is an idiot.
And then we're both idiots at heart.
So it just like spirals.
And we're just like two turds in a toilet sharing this experience,
getting flushed down the drain.
This drain called life.
This drain called life.
The same fate waits us all.
But you know, I'm glad to be sharing the same toilet with everybody
sitting at this table and the person working the camera
who didn't want to shotgun a beer and not to call anybody out.
No, but it's awesome because that's what I was saying.
Like you kind of lose touch with people you hung out with
and like real friends.
They back off.
And it's not because they don't like you.
It's just because you're fucking out of control.
And like me, I'm like, I'm mad.
Like why is everybody backing off?
And then I'm like, well, I'm just going to go fucking harder.
Fuck these motherfuckers.
You know what I mean?
Fuck these nerds.
Fucking nerds.
So I mean, that's just basically how it was.
So I mean, like you're sitting in there and like, you don't hear from nobody.
And then you're like, you're sober too.
And you're like, but you don't, you don't like really get it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah. Like what was that?
What was that?
Explain what it was like after it had been X amount of time between you
when you got arrested, spent all the time in County,
then you finally got transferred to prison.
Yeah. At that point, what was your like,
what were you thinking about like the drug addiction and the pills?
Like was that how far behind you was that at that point?
Oh, it wasn't that far behind me.
Like I was still like, you just kind of blame everything else,
but like the what really happened.
You know what I mean?
You're just grasping on the shit to blame it on.
Okay.
Kind of.
And that's, that's kind of what I was talking about.
Like after like three years, like I remember talking to my mom and she was like,
you're told she came to visit me and she's like, you're totally different.
Like she could tell after a couple years after like three years.
Yeah.
Yeah. Cause that it's kind of cliche to say,
but like a fog lifted off my off my brain.
To where I thought like, I'm like, oh, okay.
Cause it's like, I'm not, I'm not stupid.
I just did a lot of stupid shit.
Yeah.
So, but I mean, that was cool hearing her say that and just kind of reconnecting
with my brother, you know what I mean?
Cause I was a huge fucking dick.
Yeah. Massive.
Yeah.
So I mean, and then it's like, you feel bad.
You feel bad, like shit you've done to people that care about you.
Yeah.
And that you'd always push away.
And then, you know what I mean?
Just, just kind of shit like that.
So you, you deal with a lot.
It was harder mentally than anything like physically.
Nobody fucked with me.
I got in one fight.
One fight.
One fight.
When I, okay.
So when you're, when you're, when you're doing the whole DOC tour in Florida,
you, uh, people transfer all the time.
So, uh, anywhere you go, like if you do something really fucked up at some camp,
there's always going to be somebody at your next camp that knows what you did.
Yeah.
So I was playing poker and it's like, you shouldn't really be gambling while you're
locked up.
If you're trying to stay out of trouble and shit like that.
Cause it was pretty much, it was pretty much me and like a bunch of black dudes fucking
gambling all the time.
And, uh, like they'd call me the great white hope.
Cause like what?
They call me the great white hope because like I'm not fucking a lot of, a lot of white
dudes that go into prison are fucking lame and green as fuck.
Like our fucking big time fucking pussies.
Yeah.
And, um, like I wasn't, and I fucking knew how to gamble and I'm not fucking stupid.
So I remember one time we're gambling.
It's just with this, this big ass fucking, this big ass dude from Tampa.
He calls me a bitch one day at the poker table and he said, go get some more money,
broke bitch.
And I told him, don't you fuck.
I was like, don't call me a fucking bitch.
And he goes, all right, bitch.
And I go, I took all the chips I had and I threw it in his face.
And he, you tell him, get there.
And that's like a part of the pod to where they can't see you fight where the guard
station can't really see you.
So I'm like, all right, well, I'm about, I thought I was going to get the shit beat
out of me.
So I was like, all right, let's do was that big?
Oh yeah.
It was bigger than me, but he was just a, he's a big fucking goofball anyway.
But we ended up being friends like after being at different camps and all that.
So, uh, so he, we were fighting.
We were lined up and he like, you fight like down this wall.
So he like kind of kept running from me, like backing up.
And it was like, I just want to fight and just get this fucking shit over with.
So I ended up like hitting them one good time.
And he was like, oh, I'm done.
I'll go, all right.
Cause that's how I am like fighting with me is when I lose, I'm cool after man.
Like I got it off my chest.
Like I don't, I don't give a fuck if I get beat up.
Cause if you have not getting beat up in your life, you have not fought anybody worth fighting.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So, but after that, I had to stay up for three, four, five minutes.
I had to stay up for three.
Fuck it.
That was a good quote.
Fucking strong.
Yeah.
No, it's the truth.
Burn that on the side of that.
If you have, if you have never gotten beat up in your life.
That's an epic quote.
You have never fought anybody worth fighting because you're picking and choosing weak people
to fight.
Right.
And then that's, that's a whole prison thing is people prey on the week.
Yeah.
That's basically what I'm getting into.
So, but after that, I mean, it's just, he was from the guy I fought was from Tampa and
there happened to be like, like four other dudes from his neighborhood in there.
And for him to stop against a white boy, it was a, that was a big whole fucking thing.
So I had to stay up for three days straight.
So I did not get my fucking head bashed in with a lock.
Just to watch your back.
And so.
Well, no, because a lot of times, cause people, it's, it's people are fucking, or people are
scared.
They act tough, but they're fucking scared.
Yeah.
So I've, I've waken up.
I've waken up.
I've waken up in the middle of the night when I was in there and people will take your,
their belt and put it on because we have like the school master locks to put on our, our
drawers or like our commissary and all that.
So, but like, I've waken up, I've waken up at three in the morning to like a dude next
to me is getting his fucking head bashed in with the fucking lock.
Yeah.
So, but it's like all I'm hearing for like, like it's all lights out.
It's probably like midnight now.
And then I'm like, Oh, you let that cracker get over on you.
And I'm like, okay, cool.
Well, I'm going to be up for three fucking days.
So I'm like trying to read books and I'm just like, I'm pretty much just like eating instant
coffee, trying to like stay awake.
And it's just like, Oh God, it's like the worst feeling because you're just waiting for
somebody to come at you or retaliation because you're anticipating something.
Cause a lot of people, I would say fucking 90% of people in prison are fucking pussies
that they would wait and sneak up on you or wait till you're sleeping.
When you say this guy below, you got his head bashed in like, did he survive?
Oh yeah.
He survived.
Yeah.
Were people killed?
I never saw anybody get killed.
I mean, I've seen, okay.
So like shit you see in the movies and on the shows, it happens.
It doesn't happen every fucking day.
Like I've been, I've been 20 feet away from like these guys, they were chasing this guy
around and he, when he swung, I was like, wow, he fucking hits like a bitch.
You're right.
But I'm like, why the fuck is he punching them like that?
And I go, Oh my God, he's stabbing them.
These two guys are stabbing the fuck out of this dude.
But I'm like, those guys hit like fucking pussies, right?
But I'm like, Oh shit, they're fucking stabbing them.
And I'm like 20 feet away.
But it's like your fucking heart's racing, dude, because you're like, Holy fuck, man.
And like we wear light blue, like canvas uniforms kind of deal.
And it's just like, there's no blue left.
It's all red.
Yeah.
So like I've seen that happen.
Yeah.
It's just like, I've seen all everything like you would see in a show or a movie.
Yeah.
But it doesn't happen all the time like that.
Yeah.
Because most people are just trying to chill.
I mean, like you got a little bit of freedom.
Yeah.
You're not really trying to fuck that up and go to confinement to where, right?
Cause you are always fucking hungry in there.
And like being able to hit that commissary window is like,
It's everything.
That was everything.
Yeah.
If they ever took commissary out of prison, I would, I would have killed,
I would have killed everybody and then killed myself.
I'm over it.
No, it's like, there you take my honey buns.
My honey buns and my good steak coffee.
Dude, I mean, that's all you got, man.
I mean, you got to think about it.
Like people would get in fights over a fucking raiment noodle soup.
Oh yeah.
It doesn't matter.
It's the principle.
Like that's the whole thing.
Yeah.
It's the fucking principle.
Yeah.
But it's like, it's just hard to get down to that petty.
It's a soup.
It's a goddamn soup, man.
It's like, do you really want to fucking die over a fucking raiment noodle?
A 50 cent soup.
Yeah, I know, man.
I know.
It's fucked, man.
Like it's like, I try to explain it.
People are like, what's it like?
I'm like, it's really gay and just like a whole another like subculture of a subculture.
Really gay?
Really gay, yeah.
There's a lot of gay shit that goes on.
Yeah, they do that.
A lot of people think that if you're, if you're gay for this day, it's okay because you're
not on the street.
Like I've heard conversations like that and it's just, yeah.
Oh, the soap dropping.
If you're gay for the stay.
Gay for the stay.
Yeah.
Some people are, they're okay with being gay in prison.
Oh, I've, I've, no, I've also heard, I've also heard, I've also heard, this is a funny
one.
This is a real funny one.
So I'm laying, I was at Polk.
I had like, I probably had like two years left and you know, like sometimes you're just,
you're just fucking over everybody.
You can never get away from anybody.
Yeah.
I'm in a two man cell.
I'm laying on my bunk and the next cell next to me, usually it's like, there's these three
guys talking there.
He's like, how am I gay motherfucker?
He was sucking my dick.
He's a fucking cocksucker.
And then, and then like the same conversation.
It's like, no man, he's gay.
He's like, he's gay, gay.
He's like gay on the street.
Gay.
Like that's like kind of the mentality.
I don't know.
It's just really weird.
I don't got no problem.
I don't got no problem.
I mean, it just sounds kind of fucked to even say, but it's just like, this is shit.
This shit.
People like, um,
It's the things that you tell yourself to get through what you need to get through because
it's like the, the, the reasoning people have for doing shit in there is insane.
It doesn't make sense to.
It doesn't make sense to people like that are outside.
Well, even for me, it didn't really make sense because I was like, just logical, just like
logically thinking about stuff was just like, right.
You got your dick sucked by a dude.
Well, I'm not even like, yeah, but that aside, just like the way, I mean, but a lot of people
just, I mean, that's just like a mental thing.
Like you're, you are traumatized, but nobody would admit that in there about, about that.
But people, you know, your mind, your mind makes, helps you get through it.
And some people just do weird fucking shit while they're in there.
You know what I mean?
You come up with the stories that you need to tell yourself to justify your actions in
there and you're coping.
Yeah.
Because you have nothing else to do in there.
And it's like, there's no human affection other than the people that are around you.
If that's what you need to do to get by, then that's what you need to do to get by.
Yeah.
But that's, that's, but yeah, that's, that's all good.
But it was like, people were just, just like the, the reasonings.
Like I would hear people reason about just every little aspect of the whole.
Right.
They're coming up with a reason for everything.
For everything.
Is there one thing that happened in the entire, like one part of the entire experience that
just sticks out to you is like, that was the most fucked up thing I ever saw.
What really fucking bothered me was, um, okay, when I first went in and like child molesters
and shit, Florida is so fucked.
Um, I would fuck with these dudes so bad people would, I remember getting on top of this one
dude, he was in his bed, like I would call mom and ask because people were like, Oh,
he's a child.
He's a Jo Mo or whatever.
So, but I would, so I wouldn't know that for sure.
I would call my mom.
I would call my mom a lot of times, even if I was hanging out with somebody.
I'd call my mom, tell her to look them up.
Okay.
Like, so I know what they're in there for.
Oh, okay.
So, cause it's like, I do not want to be fucking hanging out with the child molester.
Right.
Right.
Somebody like did some really fucked up.
Like we all did fucked up shit, but for you to like do that to a kid.
Was it, was it easy to kind of figure out who did what?
I mean, some people were, and then I remember this one dude, I got on, I got on, he was,
he was taking a nap.
I just went on top of him, put my elbow in his throat.
He woke up and then I fucking had a big old mouth full of skull.
And I fucking spit it all in his face.
And then I slapped him.
I got up.
He just looked at me and was just like, well, this fucking sucks.
He didn't even fucking say nothing.
You know what I mean?
Because it's like half those motherfuckers know, man, like it's fucked in like people
a couple of times when I would do it, people, people would like try to fight me.
But it's not like they would just talk shit.
They're not actually trying to fight me and kind of deal like that.
But just for you to stick up for somebody like that.
I don't know.
I know.
Maybe they didn't know he was a chum.
Oh, they all knew.
They did.
Everybody knows.
But a lot of people will cut.
Some people will stick up for those guys because if they buy them like commissary and
she'll like that.
So, but you're kind of like selling your soul to the devil.
So it's like, fuck, I don't know.
I just don't, I just don't get it how you could.
Yeah.
I don't know.
So you would call your mom.
I would say Florida.
Look at this guy up.
Look up who's in jail and nobody's in Florida.
She would look him up.
Oh, no, you can't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can go online.
Yeah.
I would do that for you though.
Yeah.
Because there was a few people I kind of like hung out with.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I was fucking fresh.
Shout out to mom for fucking looking it up.
Well, you kind of like have to, man.
I don't.
Right.
But Florida is, Florida is fucked, dude.
Like in every aspect of Florida, not even not the prison, but Florida is a hellhole.
But for every aspect of Florida, it is, it's fucked.
Nobody gives a fuck about anything.
Nobody, nobody's like.
No morals.
There's few, there's few people who are true to what they do.
Yeah.
Who really give a fuck.
And I think it's just from everybody moving here.
There's no back.
Like there's no background.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like you go to New York or you go to Pennsylvania.
Like there's generations and generations.
Right.
Exactly.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's just like a fucking.
And I, I don't know.
There's just a bunch of fucked up Floridians.
It's a bunch.
It's just a bunch of rich fucking white people fucking up this whole fucking state.
A bunch of rich white people and a bunch of fucking addicts.
Making all the laws.
Yeah.
The thing that always fucked, uh, fucked with me the most about like how you explained
your experience was, you know, it's a little detail.
And like when you talk about it, like it doesn't really seem like a big deal, but the fact
that there's no air conditioning in any of the prisons.
Oh yeah.
Summer time is so fucked up.
That is.
Oh no.
Summer time dude.
Like there is no sleeping.
That's oppressive.
Like you take, you take, uh, like you go to sleep at night, you're probably waking up
five, six times.
Like just drenched in sweat.
Like you piss the bed.
Like that's how fucking wet it is.
Wow.
Cause you're sleeping on plastic fucking mats.
It's, uh, they have windows, but it's, it's that big, but they put a piece of metal
over it and there's probably like 10 or 15 drill holes, little holes, little drill holes
like for barely getting in here, but we would, we would throw up in the window, what we call
the AC, you take it, you take a couple of forks in the trash bag and I don't know how
the fucking this works, but you would bring it out to where it would catch wind and blow
it to your bones, to your bones.
Right.
There's some genius shit that happens.
Oh dude.
There was real life fucking MacGyver.
Like fucking.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's amazing.
Like, but I mean, that's the whole thing.
It's, I remember my dad coming to see me and he's like, how do you do this?
And I was like, you're either going to do it or you're going to lay down or I mean,
like, if you get thrown into something, you're going to do it and you're going to figure
out how to make it the easiest way possible.
So it was just, yeah.
That's crazy.
There's a lot of.
You didn't have a choice.
Yeah.
You had no choice.
I'm just here for the ride in the honey buns, baby.
Icing frost, frosted the honey buns or just plain frosted all day.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Come on.
That was like, I was like, when I got out, I was in like the best shape of my life and
I was all, dude, I probably ate five ramen noodles, soups a day.
When you got out or when you were.
No, when I was in there the whole time, like, I probably ate five ramen noodles, soups a
day, like at least two honey buns, just eating total shit dude and you were still in the
best shape.
Yeah.
I remember when he got out on work release and like we were trying to work out together
and he's like smoking cigarettes, drinking instant coffee and like eating, like, doing
push-ups with my mom on his back and like, motherfucker, keep up.
You guys were trying to work out together when you got out.
No, we were working out together.
How did that go?
Hey, man, you want to work out?
Where were you?
Bond.
Where were you working out at?
Oh, his, uh, that place fusion that he was living at in St. Pete.
Okay.
Was it at the house?
Yeah, at the house.
Oh, yeah.
My mom and dad's house.
Okay.
So you guys were working out, like, in the driveway or something?
It was like working out in the driveway.
Like, he was showing me, like, what they used to do, like, to pass the time and work out
and it was just like all squats, push-ups, and just, like, lifting random shit.
Like, all the different kinds of push-ups I always thought were, like, really interesting
because, you know, you got, like, your basic ones and you got the ones, like, where you
crawl and it's like, okay, we're going to crawl all the way down the driveway and then
do push-ups and then you just, like, kind of doing this army crawl, but you're push-upping
too.
And the whole time you're smoking, dipping and drinking instant coffee.
Oh, yeah, dude.
I would be on the rec yard doing it on the pull-up bar with a mouthful of skull in, like,
a top roll-up cigarette smoking it.
Dune pull-ups.
I mean, that's how you had to add resistance.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Didn't you say at one point they banned cigarettes?
Yeah, they, they, they took the cigarettes out.
I forgot what year that was, but they gave us a year notice.
So we're like, oh, it's a year, but then that shit would buy so fast.
Right.
Like nothing.
The next day.
So it was probably like, it was like October one year and then we saw, like, flyers everywhere.
It was like, wait, what?
It's like, that's pretty much all you have.
And you know what I mean?
Right.
It's like a little bit of freedom.
Yeah, yeah.
So, um, they were going to ban it the next October that year, but they were going to stop
selling this September before.
So, like, the whole year goes by and then at the end, everybody's fucking scrambling.
Everyone's going crazy.
They're burying them on the fucking yard.
Uh, so they stopped selling them and then, I mean, the price of a $5 pack of top went
up to like 200 and just kept doubling.
Like it went to 10, then 20, then 40, and then it got all the way up to like 250 bucks.
I heard some of the reception centers when people first come in, yeah, they were going
for like five, $600 for one fucking like small ass pack of top.
Wow.
So that was, that made it easy to quit smoking.
Yeah.
I like to eat.
Yeah.
I like to eat.
Commissaries.
Nice.
I don't like smoking fucking $40 like pin joints of tobacco.
A little pinners.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
So.
Now, what about, what about when you finally got out?
Like, what was it like?
Skinny Vinny.
You remember when it was like a meeting up to your lease?
Um, like, like leading up to like, I was at, I was at work release.
Oh, okay.
This is another fucked up story.
Oh yeah.
You went to a camp after that or what?
I, I went to work release at the Largo Goodwill.
It was right across the street from Diamond Dolls on 19.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
So fuck yeah.
But before I got there.
Fuck yeah.
Is that by celebration station?
Uh, it is at right there.
Yeah.
It's closer there.
It's close.
Not that close though.
So not close enough.
So I go to this, I go to the Goodwill, it's shut down now, but I went there, but before
I got there, there was a motherfucker that raped some chick at fucking Diamond Dolls that was
out there.
And then another guy killed, it was at least one or two people and then set the house on
fire.
Damn.
That was at work release.
I mean, work release is you have less than a fucking year left.
Right.
You know what I mean?
Right.
And what do they make you do for work?
Oh, you go get a regular job.
You just go.
You can go out.
And you're living in like a halfway house or?
No, I mean, it's.
Or they just take you out of.
It's pretty much like a halfway house, but it's still DOC.
It's not like, it's not like an actual prison.
Okay.
It's like super low custody.
Yeah.
So, but you don't have that much fucking time left and these fucking stupid cocksuckers
did like the dumbest shit and I don't know, they it was that whole thing and like doing
that much time.
Like that was the first time like me really doing time.
So being that gone that long, I'm like, I can definitely wait.
No, I'm good to go do like all this dumb shit.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So when you, you rode your bike, like how far to go to work, I worked two jobs.
So I would leave the center at like five in the morning and ride my bike from there to
to Indian Rock Beach.
So I was doing like, I was doing like 22 miles a day, but I would leave the center at like
five.
Where was the center?
The center was right across the street from Diamond Dolls.
On 19.
19 East Bay.
Okay.
Okay.
That's far as fuck.
That's a far as bike ride.
That's a far drive.
Yeah.
That's a far.
That is a far drive.
I worked two jobs.
I don't even drive that far.
Honestly.
That's a far drive.
I would get back by like midnight, 11 o'clock or midnight.
And I think it was 11, I'd get back because that was like our curfew.
So I'm, then I would get like two hours of sleep and I would just keep doing it, but
I was so fucking pumped just to be able to just write your feeling a little bit of freedom
and shit.
Right.
Just riding my bike, working and just kind of feeling normal.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Just kind of being like a normal person in the world, I guess, well, not really normal,
but right.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
But you're not in prison anymore.
I'm riding a bike.
If you're riding your bike in Florida, then there's something wrong with you.
Oh, that's like the people on the bus that take a bus in Florida.
You're like, God, he's a fucking drug addict or you got a fucking DUI.
Yeah.
He's no license.
I mean, that's fucking normal.
That's what you do.
But down here, you just, you look down at everybody that's fucking riding a car.
You see somebody walking on the side of like DUI.
Definitely.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
So, I mean, I love that.
But so, but that shit came to, they, after those guys did that shit, I remember one
morning woke up at like three in the morning and all the, like, it was like the, it was
like the riot squad.
I forgot the fuck their name was in there for prison.
They all came in all of our doors said, all right, motherfuckers, pack your shit.
You're going back to prison.
I was like, no.
Oh God.
So I had to go back to one of the, that reception camp I first went to, went to that whole fucking
shit again.
Back in Polk.
No, that was Orlando.
I was in Orlando.
Yeah.
So I had to go through like that whole shit when I first went back to prison and then
so it was like, was that like two or three months?
Yeah.
Then you went to Polk.
Then we went to, no, that was after Polk.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Put you back in it.
No, no, no.
Were you ever in Coleman?
No.
Okay.
Coleman.
Oh, no, that's federal.
That's federal.
That's federal.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Coleman's federal camp.
That's a, yeah, you got to do like a lot real big shit to do that.
Yeah.
You do.
Yeah.
That's like, that's like the Harvard for criminals.
Yeah.
Remember, that's where Matt Cox was, right?
Yeah.
But you remember, we went to the camp.
What about Mike Oxpig?
Was he there too?
He was definitely there.
That's your change.
I heard about him.
No, but Dave Clark.
You remember him?
Yeah.
Remember Dave Clark?
He's a Coleman right now.
Still?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Was that one of your buddies?
His get-outs, his get-out is 2037.
2037.
He's done.
But he loves guys.
Yeah.
He's super religious.
That is really all that matters.
Yeah.
Especially in Florida.
Yeah.
So you didn't find Jesus in prison?
Yeah.
Jesus actually.
Jesus in Florida.
Actually, we don't get along.
You and Jesus?
Well, yeah.
I mean, we really don't get along because all these Christians out here, they're always
talking about forgiveness.
Yeah.
And since I've been out of prison, it's every time I try to go do something, it's like gross,
you're a felon.
You can go fuck off.
You check that box.
Fuck you.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
But that's like, all of our laws, whether you like it or not, are based on Christian values.
Yeah.
But everything is based on Christian values, which they say church and state is separate,
is bullshit.
Yeah.
Because it's that whole fucking forgiveness thing, you fucking cocksuckers, that I'd
never get forgiven.
Even when I was just in Pennsylvania, when we got the house to rent, there was a few
places that would not even talk to me because of my background.
And it sucks because, I don't know, just not even talking to somebody before and just kind
of judging them on that.
Like that, yeah.
Because they don't know you.
And you have made like a, I feel like a full fucking 360 from where you've come from.
I've learned that there's more, Jesus Christ.
We can answer that on the air if it's good.
Yeah.
Answer it.
Answer it.
Oh, hey, what's up, babe?
Oh, you know, it's fucking sucks.
These guys fucking don't know what they're doing.
You're live.
You're live on the air.
You're not live.
She's stoked.
You sound like you don't.
She's fucking stoked.
You get your room cleaned up or what?
I'm sleeping.
All right.
Go to bed.
I'll be home later.
Hey.
Love you.
Love you.
How long do you think you'll be?
I don't know.
We're still in prison.
A couple hours.
We're still in prison.
We haven't even made it to MDF yet.
What?
Do you want to tell the story about how we met?
Yeah.
That'd be sick.
Yeah.
What?
That's an easy one.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
Okay.
Well, I'll see you in a little bit or a few hours.
We'll see what comes first.
You just prolong it and being on the phone right now.
You're just prolonging it and being on the phone.
Love you, baby.
Bye.
So that's your shoutout to your wife.
Shoutout to your wife.
Yeah, shoutout to our wife.
Wait, how long after you got out did you meet your wife?
I got out in February. I met her in May. It was like love at first sight. You know what I mean?
I guess three months later. Luke, you were there, right? Where did you meet her? I orchestrated the whole trip.
Did you really? Yeah. What was it? Give us the story. So like another thing that helped me and Jake
and our relationship was heavy metal and you got him into it, right?
Yeah, I helped guide him towards the healing powers and
righteousness of heavy metal. It is way better than Jesus. I highly recommend heavy metal over Jesus.
The Jake that I remember is like
completely different. Although I will say Jake did have like the Trap House Gucci Man CD when it first came out.
Did you really? I remember my mom like picking it up. I was like, look at this girl cooking at the stove naked.
That looks amazing. Please let me borrow it. I went through, I went through a lot of phases, kind of trying to like find yourself.
Yeah. Well, you've found yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, that's kind of the problem with down here because that's like goes back to the whole thing about
nobody's really into anything down here because you got all these old fucks and all you do, all they do is drink.
There's just like, there's really nothing going on around here. If you think about it for
for young people, I used to skateboard all the time. I had my hip surgery. I couldn't do that anymore.
So I had nothing. I had nothing but drugs and rap. Yeah, because when I remember Jake, it was like when we were young, it was like
the hot boys. Yeah, like big timers. Yeah. Jake, early cash money. Yeah, cash money and respect your wife. But Jake always had.
There was like always the parties at your house. Jake always had the baddest bitches all around town, for sure.
I remember like seeing like titties for maybe the first time was definitely like with Jake. Were they mine?
No, they weren't yours. It was like the first time I seen a real pair of like women's titties was definitely probably a party
at your house. I always saw a girl screaming from like. Oh, yeah.
I remember Luke tell me a story one time. He was like, he's like, I walked into my room and there was just this girl.
And Jake was like, yeah, go in there and check it out. And she was just spread evil on your bed.
Oh, I forgot. I forgot the chick's name, but she was like. He's like, that was the first time I seen a pussy forever.
No, she was like, she was like Luke's size. You know what I mean? She was like one of those like small girls.
No, it was like they kind of looked like the same age. She was also in fourth grade.
And we were in like middle school. Very middle school in our fourth grade.
You were the fucking the coolest back then to me for sure. I remember like going to like
Reddington Pier and smoking black and milds with you when I was in sixth grade. Yeah, right? This is living.
We would party at the house and we would go like ride our bicycles to Luke's house.
And you would already be there and all your friends and fucking mad girls and
In the mutton room and with the scoreboard on the wall. I'm glad you guys like carry that tradition.
Yeah, they're definitely weighted.
I mean, that's kind of how like our scores were. There was only like two of us that actually scored on the scoreboard.
But that was that was so sick back then. Yeah, I mean, yeah, you gotta have fun. I mean, I just kind of
I just kind of floated through life my whole life. Yeah, I did not knowing
It wasn't a bad. I mean, it was not a bad thing, but it's like I kind of went through life not knowing
How to do anything, but fucking party. Yeah, you know what I mean? So
So, but I guess I guess prison probably was the best thing that's ever happened to me.
Guaranteed. Honestly. Yeah. If I had to do it again the same way I would.
Really? Yeah. Because you'd be dead if it was. Well, I can't die, but my life's a lot better.
Yeah, you're immortal. I guess. That's right, dad.
So, yeah, man, it's just it's just weird how everything kind of just kind of keeps working out
and learning shit. I mean, I learned more from prison than I have from anybody in my whole life.
A lot of people that I've talked to that have been in prison for a long time say they've met
a lot of their best friends in prison. Well, I met a couple of buddies. I mean,
I don't say they're best friends, but I still keep in touch with two of them. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Shout out to Chunk and Doug. Chunk. Yeah. What up, Doug?
Hey, Chunk, hit that truffle shuffle, bitch. He's wider than he is tall. Yeah. He's my buddies.
He's five foot tall and five foot wide. Wow. Yeah. It's kind of like that girl on
Willy Wonka, the blue one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just like her. Oh, hell yeah.
But he doesn't float, he thinks. Oh, it's really short hair. He's super thick, man. He is. He is so
thick. He's like 10 C's. He's like a full Snickers. Oh, King size. Way, way bigger.
He's like, gosh, yeah.
Oh, fuck. So back to heavy metal. Yeah, where were we? Heavy metal. Heavy metal.
It's the law. God damn better believe it. Heavy metal is the fucking law. And if you don't agree
with that, then you just need to tune out right now because we don't have time for you. Let's take
a five second break so these nerds can fucking tune off. A moment of silence for the nerds.
A moment of silence for the fucking nerds that think Metallica started at the black album.
Fuck you. Fuck load. Fuck reload and fuck anything after that. I just found out that load is the
album cover is actually blood in semen. I always thought that the album cover was Guy Fieri's
four arms. It's real blood in semen on that album cover. I just found that out. Who's blood
in who's semen? I have no idea. Guy Fieri. It was the first time anybody has been taken to Flavortown.
Somebody call Billy Mays for the oxy green.
Anyway, back to the heavy metal. So while Jake was partying doing all those things
and doing all that shit, I discovered heavy metal listening to Metallica Slayer and all the things
that you find out early on in your journey through non-commercial music. Me and Shane went to a
couple casualties shows. Yeah, a lot of casualties shows. A lot of casualties shows. That was one
of the first shows I went to. For sure. I remember when Who Almost Got Beat Up by the lead singer.
Was that Alex? I think it was Alex. It was probably Alex.
That sounds about right. Yeah, I think he like... The guy who almost whooped his ass.
Who's not the lead singer anymore actually, but yeah, I remember them. I don't know. We were
crazy back then. We were just like, we were just wild out at those shows and throw beers on stage
and fucking. We were like 16, 17 drinking beers out there and getting fucked up, but that was a good time.
Yeah, that was fun. So, you know, that whole thing progresses and you just dive down the
bottomless pit that is like the legacy of heavy metal. And it's just something that always stuck
with me. And I feel like once I discovered that I had my thing and the thing that like I could
really own. And as Jake was going through his thing, like I had my thing. And, you know, as he was
suffering through whatever he was suffering through and going through whatever he was
going through with my parents, like I just had like my Slayer and Metallica albums.
And it's it's very typical, but sometimes typical and cliche is what you need to get
through the really hard times. Yeah. And I always wanted him there and I always wish that like he
could understand why this music was good and like why there was something there for you. There's
something there for everybody. Like no matter what emotion you're feeling, no matter what you're
going through, you can throw on any one of those classic albums and work through it. And it just
stuck with me. And so you passed it to him. Yeah. For some reason, like when we started writing and
corresponding with each other, uh, while he was in jail prison, prison, prison, uh, he was
thanks for keeping bringing that up like that. Not the feds. Not the feds. I'm a bottom of the
barrel fucking criminal. He got a cockroach criminal. He got a music player and he was able to buy
like single MP threes. Oh yeah. And as I was writing him, I would like tell him to download
shit. So they download like some Nile download some Slayer. Here's like some suicide silence
or here's some this or whatever. Slayer. Everybody should listen to Slayer die by the sword.
And I don't give a fuck like who's out there. If you got like some shit to talk about it,
the first suicide silence album is fucking amazing. I don't care how true you think you are,
that shit fucking rips. But anyway, Jake had that on his iPod or his prison pod at one point. So if
anybody, not my prison pocket, his prison, but it was in the prison pod was in the one point.
It was in somebody's prison pocket. Yeah. And then I just kept sending him stuff to listen to.
And you know, I was going through my journey through heavy metal playing shows doing my thing
and he was still just like locked up doing his thing. And you photoshopped some sweet pictures
like a waffle house. Me, Jake and Obama visited a waffle house at one point. Those stickers.
Okay. So funny about that was my dad's side of the family did not know I was in prison
probably for four years. I don't think we ever told Grammy. Well, no, she knew. Oh,
because you slipped up and told one of our cousins. Oh, so anyway, so I mean,
loose Luke. That's what they call me. My dad's side of the family thought I was a hotel manager
in Tallahassee. Cutting trees. I was cutting trees in Fort Walton Beach for a while.
I was doing this all this shit all over. They, I guess they were embarrassed to tell them I was
in prison or something. Wait till they see this. Yeah. They're like, they're super fucking right
wing fucking Christian prophecy fucking weirdos. Yeah. And I guess that doesn't go with that.
Revelations. Yeah. But nobody, nobody gives a fuck about our little family on my dad's side.
So that's why we're here. Who gives a fuck. So are in Florida. Yeah.
So we started making plans for this thing called MDF. That was when we were still working together.
Yep. It was getting close to like a year of him being out. You got to buy tickets for it like
probably like six to eight months out. So I was like, fuck it. I'm going like full fucking MVP
package spent like all the money getting all the wristbands doing all the shit getting everything
lined up. And he's like, Hey, we're doing this because the one thing that you need to get over
like something that's bothering you is like you need a goal to work towards. And I thought this
was like a really great thing for him to look forward to. And also a really great thing for me
to look forward to because I saw him getting out as like the start of our actual relationship
as brothers. And I was just really grateful for that like fourth chance that I got to like
be there and like hang out and like be cool and be human together. And I was so pumped. I told him
and I got him through it and like we were talking about it the whole time leading up to it like
through your work release and everything. And I'd bring him donuts while he was on work release
and like we drink out drink coffee before you'd have to go to work. And then like I'd come up to
like Clearwater like jacked up off of like fucking four apple fritters and like quadruple lattes
from Lighthouse Donuts. Shout out to Lighthouse Donuts. Shout out to these.
No, we actually never. Where was the work release? Well, we never got quads. We ordered quads one day
of lattes and the guy goes, we don't do that. Like it was just totally out of line that we
wanted quadruple latte. Yeah. And we got through it and we made it to the trip. Yeah. Oh, that was
amazing. Just kind of opened my eyes to that there's more to life than Pinellas County, Florida.
Yeah. Although Pinellas County is a great place. This part of Florida is really great.
It's really great if you're like 60 and coming down and you're not an ex-con fucking scumbag
piece of shit. Or if you're a washed up WWE wrestler. Yeah. Or a burned out fucking BTLS
disjockey.
Oh man. So what's next on the on the journey of Jake? On the journey? What's so what's so what's
what are you looking forward to? Like what's right now me and my wife, Ryan, Ryan, James, shout
out. Bow out. Bow out. We're about to we're moving to Philly on the 11th, moving up to Philly. She's
from there and just more work opportunity for a piece of shit like me. Yeah. She got a badass job
up there. So like any any city we go to, we know somebody we can stay with and ride the couch and
yeah shit like that. And it's it's it's been awesome. I met like I've met a lot of fucking cool people
just all over and it just makes you want to be like there's there's more to life than just right
here. Yeah. Right now where I'm living at. Yeah. I've lived at my whole life because I mean the
house I'm living in right now is across the street from the house me and Luke grew up in.
What would you say to that? What would you say to the 2007 Jake James who's sitting right here?
Oh shit. Thank you. It's been a wild ride. Oh yeah. No, it's been nuts, man, but I mean it's just
who knows. I kind of believe in all that like don't change. Like I wouldn't change nothing just
if that's how it worked out. You know what I mean? Yeah. So everything's been forged and
steel and so good, man. Yeah. I would go through all that again to be where I'm at right now.
Basically. It's been an epic journey. I mean the whole thing it's like
maybe someday I will do something with myself but you know what I mean? But I mean I'm doing
I'm doing the best I can for what it is and I mean I love it. I love I love my life right now
more than anything. That's awesome. What did change anything? Hell yeah dude. That was fucking
legendary dude. Yeah. Thanks for coming out man. Thanks for sharing dude. I know a lot of people
will be able to take this and learn from it and I'm sure there's a lot of people to relate to your
story as well. Oh yeah. I doubt it. Hope not. Hope not. But can I say one thing? Like I hope
I know you know he's leaving and he's moving on the next chapter of his life. Yep. So I hope you
find what you're looking for brother. Whether you think you can or you can't you're right.
Never forget that. God damn right. What'd you just say?
