Hello, world. In 1999, entertainment reporter Tom O'Neill accepted a three-month assignment
from a film magazine to write a story about the infamous Charles Manson Tate-LaBianca
murders that changed Hollywood. Tom missed his deadline, but continued to investigate
the murders, falling down a 20-year investigative rabbit hole that birthed his new book, Chaos,
which is the product of those two decades of meticulous research, hundreds of interviews,
and falling out with publishers that led to financial and legal repercussions for Tom.
Tom's book, Charles Manson, the CIA, and the Secret History of the 60s, presents his
research into the background and motives of the Tate-LaBianca murders committed by the
Manson family in 1969. The evidence Tom has uncovered blows massive holes in the official
narrative of the Charles Manson story, and exposes corruption and cover-ups, and Manson's
connection to the CIA's MKUltra LSD testing and psychological warfare mind control programs.
Tom's book is The Holy Grail of True Crime, and on this episode, Tom tells some shocking
stories that had to be left out of the book. So without further ado, buckle the fuck up,
and enjoy this terrifying episode with Tom O'Neill.
Mr. Tom O'Neill, thank you. Thank you so much for coming out here, man. I really appreciate
you being here. So your book, Chaos, what a fascinating journey this has been for you,
a 20-year journey to create this thing. 20 years, it actually came out two years ago this past week,
two-year birthday, and I've never stopped continuing to report on the same subject.
Really? Did you think you'd be able to just kind of wash your hands of it afterwards?
Well, I knew I wouldn't be able to do it entirely, but I hoped to, and I think I didn't work for like
two days after it came out, and then it was just all of a sudden going right back to the open-ended
stuff, and the good thing is I get lots of people that reach out to me with information once the
book came out, and you know, you get a lot of nuts too, but one out of ten is somebody with
good information. A lot of people, once they saw that I was a legitimate, credible person,
then they started trusting me with stuff. So I get people from places that I would never be able
to find them on my own. A lot of them are retired military, retired law enforcement, and they'll
say, okay, I know a little bit of this, a little bit of that, and then I go through it, and the ones
that are giving me stuff that I can substantiate, I'm going back to, and talking about doing a
second book with my collaborator and publisher. Yeah, but it opened up a whole new can of worms
of things, that people that are coming to you now because of the book that you probably never
would have known about with you being the one doing the outreach. And the other thing is there
are people who are even more obsessed with the subjects in my book than I am, and some of them
had all this backlog of information and didn't know what to do with it, and they didn't know what
I was doing because I was working in a vacuum for 20 years, and a lot of them sound like they
never get out of their house, but they get access to documents, they do FOIA requests, a lot of
it is government stuff that's really kind of buttressing what I have in here, but it's adding
to it and giving it more of a foundation. And I told my collaborator all along
that I didn't want to do a second book unless I had something really explosive to add
to anything that we began in the first that couldn't finish, and he said we have so much
stuff we didn't put in the first book, it's the second book and it'll be pretty quick to turn
around because a lot of it was already written and we just set it aside because it was already too
long, but we're probably going to decide in the next couple of months how to go about it, whether
it's going to happen, I just know it is, I'm not going to do it alone because I can't take another
20 years, this guy, he and I became such a good team in two years, we turned around a book that
I'd already been working 18 years on. Wow. So you like my shirt? Marilyn Manson? Yeah, you got
to be careful with where you're wearing a shirt like that right now because he's been canceled,
I believe. Yeah, he's been canceled, officially canceled. And you're a big fan? I've always been
a big fan of Marilyn Manson, yes, since I was a little kid, the first thing I ever saw was when
he did the MTV Music Awards or whatever, I think I was maybe 10 years old, something like that,
really, I was super intrigued and followed his music ever since. Yeah, well, I mentioned it. He
may have been a piece of shit person behind doors, but my opinion on it, my far away 20,000 foot
opinion on it is that if you're getting into a relationship, a romantic relationship with that
guy, you kind of have to have an idea what to expect. It's not going to be normal. Yeah, well,
unfortunately, I think the visit was kind of, I mentioned earlier that he invited me up to his
house in, I think it was last February. Did he really? The last, I can't remember now,
it was well before the scandal. After your book came out? He had the book and he started reaching
out to my agent to see if I would meet with them, and he was so cryptic in emails that my agent
didn't think it was really him, and he told his secretary to get rid of him, and she was a fan,
so she said, if I get on the phone with him, I'll know whether it's him or not, and she got on
the phone with him, and she said it's him, and he just said I would love to have him come to my
house, I have something to show him that I don't think he knows about or that he's ever seen before,
and it terrifies me to even possess it, so she said, he said you could call him, so he and I
got on the phone, he didn't think it was safe to tell me what he had on the phone, he wanted me to
come see or hear it, he was being very vague, and the fact is he didn't need anything, I mean I love
going into unusual situations, and I thought, I wasn't a huge fan, you know, I actually became a
little bit of one when I did some homework, but my collaborator is a musician, he's an ex-drummer,
and he loved them, and he had just finished and published a book on Prince where he was working
with Prince on his memoir, and then Prince died, it's actually how I got him as my collaborator,
because when Prince died, their project came to a screeching halt, and then he had to wait a year or
two to figure out whether or not he had enough material to finish the book without Prince,
but I told Dan, my collaborator, I said, how would you like to go with me to Maryland Mansons,
I don't know if I want to go up there alone, and he goes, are you kidding me, so he got on a plane
just to go up there, so we went to the castle in the hills, and he,
I don't know if he's ever going to listen to this. No he won't, I've been trying to get him
on this for years, he'll never do it. Number one, I did love the guy, but he didn't have anything
what he had was an audio tape that he thought he had found in the house,
he lived at the Tate House where the murders happened, he and Trent Reznor moved into that.
Oh they recorded an album there, right? Yeah, well they were living there and recording an album,
and while they were there he found stuff that had been like left behind by the previous owner
and tenants, and one of them was an audio tape of Roman Polanski's police interrogation,
and I had it already, you know, and it's, and you can get it, I had it actually 20 years before
when nobody had it, but in the last five or six years it somehow got out and their bootlegs,
and you can buy it online, right, so it was difficult because Maryland was you know already
partying, we didn't even, he said don't come before 11 o'clock at night, so we got up to 11,
and it was actually a historic night if you're a fan because it was the first time he and his
guitarist who he threw out of the band a number of years before. Twiggy. Twiggy were together and
they had reconciled recently, but they hadn't met yet, so he invited Twiggy over to hang out with
me and Dan and him and talk about Manson, and Twiggy I guess had been through rehab and everything,
they were both really sweet guys, but Twiggy was sober, and Maryland has this amazing screening
room that feels more like a harem, unsurprisingly, there's no furniture, you just sit on pillows and
it's pitch black, and there's just you, what would have been a huge, beautiful window with a view of
the valley because it's high up in the hills, but it's all blacked up with bricks because I think
all the windows in this house were like that, I'm not a hundred percent sure, so we just spent like
three hours talking about the book and he was trying to find the point and the tapes that he
said, well even if I had them you probably don't have this, and I'm pretty sure I do Maryland,
and then I thought well I'm just going to humor him, I didn't mind, we were still having fun,
but thank God for Twiggy because Maryland didn't know how to operate any of the technical stuff,
so Twiggy was going through everything. Were they just little cassette tapes?
Yeah they were cassette tapes, and we finally, when we were done listening to them at about
three or four in the morning, let's just say there was a lot of substances offered to us,
and Dan and I were on an adventure, so we accepted them, Twiggy stayed away from everything,
and I think he left at about three in the morning, and then the even better stuff came out because
he didn't want to have to, because he didn't want to tempt Twiggy, and then at about seven in the
morning I said to Dan, I go, because Dan's 20 years younger than me, I said, Dan, if I do any
more of this stuff I'm going to have a massive heart attack or a stroke, I go I can't die in
Maryland, Dan's in his house, he's got enough problems, you know what that's happening, so we
literally left, I think at seven or seven thirty in the morning, and it was fun, I mean the one
thing I can tell you about him since you are a fan, is he's one of the smartest guys and funniest,
I mean he could be a stand-up comic, the problem was he was so kind of let's say
feeling good that he slurs a lot, and he also talks under his breath, and he doesn't,
he's not performative, he'll just say these off-the-wall remarks that almost make you piss
in your pants, and I missed so much because he was slurring a lot, and I thought this guy could
have a whole like ten other career, I know he acts now, but you know he's a really intelligent guy,
you know he was having problems with his fiance then, it was the night before the Oscars,
and they had had a huge fight because they disagreed on what he was going to wear to the Oscar
party, they weren't going to the Oscars, but they were going to the Big Vanity Fair party,
and he helped Dan and I help him decide what to wear, oh really, yeah, and he had already,
they had been supposed to get married two or three times already, and they kept fighting him,
and cancelling it, she was somewhere in the house, we never met her, who, which one, which
woman was it, she's his latest, she's a filmmaker, I can't remember her name, she's beautiful, I mean
he and I, Dan and I, when we looked at her up the next day, she's a beautiful woman, I don't know
if she's still with him, or if she's made any of these allegations, but he went through all his
old ex-girlfriends with us and told us stories, and really, he should have made a sign in NDA,
but he can trust us, you know, right, yeah, he, um, did you drink any absinthe? He had it, yeah,
I, not, he brought out tequila, and when Dan looked at the tequila, I don't know my tequila,
he said this is like a 300 bottle, bottle of tequila, and of course we're sitting on the floor,
because there's no furniture, and you get kind of uncomfortable, and after you drink a lot of
tequila and do a lot of other stuff, you're not as mobile, and at one point, he had brought out
a second bottle of it, and I knocked it over right after we opened it, and he has a shag rug,
and I'm like, oh Marilyn, I'm so sorry I spilled a bottle, he goes, oh man, I got cases of them
in the basement, don't worry about it, so um, yeah. Oh my fucking god, what a story. Yeah, yeah,
you know, he was an open book, we were talking about the rumors about, you know, the rib being cut
out, and, oh yeah, what did he say about that? He said it wasn't true, he had a scar there for
something, I can't remember half of what happened that night, luckily Dan took notes the next day,
so I called up Dan to refresh, I should have done that, I didn't know you were a fan. That's one
of the most classic rumors about him is removing the rib to suck his own dick, and he had a bunch
of funny, witty answers when people would ask him that in articles, but yeah, he's incredibly
intelligent and witty, like on the spot being able to just destroy people. Yeah, and he had just
finished his record which had a song, or maybe it was a title, had chaos in the title. Oh yeah,
we are chaos. Yeah, you know, my book's called chaos, and he's like, don't you try to sue me
for plagiarism, I didn't steal it from you, it's a common word, I got no, don't worry about it,
don't worry about it, but when you're performing it, you know, hold the book up or something for
your millions of fans, but I guess he's not gonna tour now. Yeah, I don't know if he's doing anything,
I don't think he's been in the public at all since Evan Rachel Wood came out and said all that stuff
about him. And then a couple other piled on, I think. Yeah, but I think one of his ex-wives
actually said that yeah, like he does do a lot of dark, demented shit, but he never did anything
that that. That was Dita Vontiz, I think. Dita Vontiz, right, she's like, you know, he would never
do anything as far as like rape somebody or like do something. I think he should have stayed with
her because she was the one he had the nicest things to say about when we were talking. Yeah,
it was a trip. And then he texted us, I knew he wasn't going to bed, and he had mentioned at some
point that he never gets up at four or five in the afternoon, and he did text me at like five,
thirty or six saying he just wanted to make sure we got home okay and we were fine. I said I couldn't
do that a second night in a row, but whenever you do it, after I've had a few days rest and
relaxation, just let me know, I'll come back. And then a couple months later, he texted me
Easter Sunday morning, so I know he hadn't gone to bed yet at like seven in the morning and just
said happy Easter, Tom. And you know, and I have Marilyn Manson, you know, into my phone, so Marilyn
Manson happy Easter, Tom. Wow. Oh man, man, it's kind of just so bittersweet, just his story, his
like, you can't be that age and sustain that lifestyle. Yeah, yeah, I don't know how. So yeah,
it was, he played us some new music that hadn't been released, some he had a music video that
hadn't been released, and Dan got to talk to him about music, which made him, you know, so happy.
Yeah. But I'm older school, I'm like before Marilyn, my music was Patty Smith. Right, right.
The Ramones and stuff like that. Yeah, well, his obsession was with, you know, those days with,
you know, just the American obsession with and the combination of someone like Charles Manson
and his story being a serial killer, he was just as equally, you know, such a part of American
culture as Marilyn Monroe was. And that mixed with like the Kennedy, the Kennedy assassination
and all the obsession around that. And just, it's just, it's just fascinating how obsessed
people are with true crime and these kinds of cultural iconic American stories.
Definitely. So, so what, what do you, what is the next book going to be as the next book?
How could you possibly expand on everything that you went through over the past 20 years to create
this book? Believe it or not, it wouldn't be that difficult. First of all, for your listeners,
if they're, if they don't know anything about the book, I don't want it to be oversold. It doesn't
answer the biggest questions it raises. Basically, that's why it took so long. I kept looking for a
smoking gun to prove the thesis is there's more than one in here. And my agent kept telling me
after like the first five or six years, you've got enough stuff, you don't have to prove everything.
You definitely completely blow apart the official versions of, of the Manson murders,
the reason for the murders, the fact that there were more people involved in the commission of
them and the manipulation of Manson. That's huge. That's enough. But I was never satisfied because
I always felt like I was, you know, one day away and going on and on. So, that's what keeps you
going, right? Yeah, for better or worse. So what, what I've gotten since the book came out is I've
gotten a lot more substantiation. It's like building a pyramid and I'm almost at the top.
And I'm thinking, I told Dan my collaborator a week or two ago, I said, I think if I can get
a few more things in the next month, then we can just, I can stop and we can go and start on it.
If not, I do think we have enough anyway, even if I don't get it, but I'll still want a little
more time. We didn't write anything about the Sirhan case in the book, the assassin of Robert F.
Kennedy. The assassination occurred about a year and a month before the tape murders in Los Angeles
and the same cops, same attorneys, same players. And I uncovered a lot of new and pretty compelling
information proving that Sirhan was a Manchurian candidate, somebody who was programmed to be in
the pantry. Believe me, I'm not the first one to do that. A lot of really respected writers and
authors have been trying to get this case reopened for years. I have some new information,
but we couldn't link it to the main psychiatrist in our book who we allege manipulated Manson.
He was a good candidate, but I said without linking it, it would have been two or three
whole chapters that wouldn't have stayed on our narrative through line in the book.
When we do the new book, I think I will be able to link it. That's one thing, for instance, that
will be in the new book and also the Jonestown case with Jim Jones and the mass suicides and Guyana.
All this stuff happened and the petty hearse kidnapping. It's basically just kind of undoing,
unraveling a lot of stuff that are pretty much landmark historic crimes in the United States
that occurred in the 60s. And I try to stop in the 70s that were presented to us by media,
a media that was complicit with the government and the CIA to cover up truth and realities
of how many of these things were provoked. How frustrating is it knowing that there is
evidence out there that basically would give you the answers to all this book? What is it?
The guy, Tex Watson, there's those recordings of him. There's tapes that are somewhere that you
just can't get your hands on. But it must be so frustrating to know they're there and they exist.
Actually, the book kind of ends with me trying to get those tapes and I won't spoil the story, but
that was incredibly frustrating. I hope that comes through in the book because
number one, I discovered these tapes existed. They were in a safe
in an attorney's closet in Texas that he had kept since November of 1969.
What he had told me were 20 hours of audio tape of Tex Watson, Manson's kind of right-hand man who
did most of the killing and all the murders. Manson was absent from the murder scenes. The second
night of the Lobby Anka murders, he tied them up and told the others what to do but left before
the murders happened. So Tex, before anyone knew who he was, who the Manson family was,
they weren't in the papers yet. Only the police considered them suspects, had been detained. He
had fled home to his little town in Texas where he was from and the LAPD wanted to interview him
as a suspect. So they called up his cousin who was a lawyer in the small town that he lived in
and he was a sheriff of that town and the cousin agreed to take his uncle, nephew into custody
while the two LAPD cops came down and he called a lawyer, Bill Boyd, and Bill Boyd came over and
said, I'll represent him. He said, what are these guys coming down here to talk to you about? He said,
I have no idea. He goes, well, something happened in Los Angeles and he said, it beats me. So the
two cops came down and sat down with the lawyer, Tex, his parents, and his uncle, the sheriff,
and they said, where were you on the night of August 8th, 1969, August 9th, 1969, and the others
put it together and someone said, are you talking about the Sharon Tate murder? And he said, I
never knew or had nothing to do with that. So Bill Boyd said, the others, can I have a few moments
alone with them? And they said, yeah, so they left and then he said to Tex, Charles was his real name.
He said, Charles, this is a pretty serious allegation. I want you to think about it and then answer
as honestly as you can these detectives' questions and I'll represent you and make sure
you don't go to that death penalty because he already knew he could tell that he was
getting caught up in some lies. So they left Tex alone for an hour or two and then Bill went
back to see Charles and again alone, just one on one, he said, do you know what these men are
here for? And he goes, you know that girl Sharon Tate, that actress that they mentioned? He goes,
yeah, he goes, I killed her. And he said, okay, I'm going to tell them you're not talking to them
but that I'm going to represent you. So he said, you're done with my client. You can come back,
you know, with a subpoena or whatever, but right now he's my client and I don't want to
answer any questions. So then he went and recorded Charles for two days, just telling everything
about how he met Madsen, what other people were around. And I called him this lawyer in 2008,
I think, to interview him and he made the mistake during the interview of telling me, you know,
I have these tapes that nobody's ever heard and they were before anything had been written in the
newspaper. So they're probably like the purest account of what really happened. Charles was so
honest and he just talked for about 20 hours. And he said, he even described other murders that
the police had never learned about. The minute he said that, I thought, number one, he's implicating
his former client who's always your client in other murders. And number two, he's never going
to let me hear those tapes. So when I said, so you're talking about murders that the police hadn't
discovered and he said, yeah, other murders. And then all of a sudden he realized what he was saying
and goes, not that Charles had committed, but that Charles was aware of the others had done.
And I said, well, who were they? He goes, why haven't listened to them? And I guess then it was
like 40 years because I know there were a couple bikers they killed. And I was already looking
into these missing bikers who had been last seen with the group in Death Valley. And I said, Mr.
boy, is there any chance I could come down and listen to the tapes? And then he got really
nervous because then all of a sudden he's realizing he violated his confidentiality. So, well, you
know, I couldn't do anything without Charles permission. And but I'll ask him and then that
was it. He wouldn't take my phone calls. His secretary would always say, oh, he had no time
to see him. He's traveling. And after like three months of blowing me off, I told the secretary
to tell him I was going to write to Charles in prison, tell him what he said and asked for an
interview. And she had just told me he was in China on business. So she said, I'll tell him.
And she hung up and the phone rang a minute later. And my caller ID said McKinney, Texas.
And it was him on the phone. Don't you dare write to my client. If you if you say that I said all
that all the night, God damn it. And I said, but you said it all on audio tape. He said,
I didn't give you permission to tape me. I said, not only did you give me permission, you did it
on tape. God damn it. So he died two months later of a heart attack on a treadmill at about age
68 or seven, I think. I hope I had nothing to do with it. Oh, you definitely did.
Long story short, the tapes went into his firm had gone bankrupt. So they went to the bankruptcy
court. And for about two years, I tried to get the court to release the tapes to me,
rather than put them up for auction or destroy them or whatever they were going to do.
And again, it's a very long story, but I'll keep it short. The the trustee in charge of them,
ended up contact contacting the deputy DA in Los Angeles, who knew what I was doing and really
wanted the tapes to and was kind of advising me. And I said, if you don't think I'm legit,
you can get in touch with them. So she did. And then of course, stupidly, I was naive enough to think
that that wouldn't ruin my chances. But sure enough, Patrick Secura arranged to get the tapes
from her. And he had always promised me that the minute if he got them first, I would sit down
with him and listen to them for the first time. He was Patrick. He was the deputy DA who was in
charge of all the parole hearings to the Manson family. So he started, he called me up really
excited. He said, I can't believe what they're going to release the tapes to me. But we can't
let the press know because if the press finds out and text finds out, he's going to stop it.
But somebody down there in Texas found out, oh no, the trustee told Watson's current attorney
because she had to. I don't know why Patrick thought that wasn't going to happen. So then Watson
immediately went to court to stop the tapes from being released. And then there was a two or three
year process from the county court to state, court to state Supreme Court, where they finally decided
that the tapes should be released. And then the LAPD and the DA's office got them. And then they
wouldn't talk to me anymore. And to this day, they're sitting in a vault because I believe those
tapes tell the truth about why things happen, how they really happened, and who was behind the
scenes manipulating Manson. Austin, can you hit the power button on the AC real quick?
What camera?
This camera. I think it just needs to move up a little.
Okay, hold on.
Oh yeah, scoot to your right a little bit, Tom.
Just hit it down to like 75.
Um, so that's maybe a stupid question, but Texas is in prison for life. So he does get parole
hearings. Okay. He has four children that he's had in prison. He got married and until the late
70s, prisoners were allowed, even convicted murderers on death row were allowed to have
conjugal visits. Sharon Tate's mother, Doris Tate, when she found out that Watson had had his first
child, she spent I think 10 years lobbying the legislature, the state legislature of California.
She became a political activist and she finally got them to write a bill saying no more conjugal
visits for prisoners in California. So because of the late Doris Tate, prisoners can't get laid
in prison anymore. But he managed to have four kids before she prevailed and they're now grown
up. One of them is in the Marines. The wife, he had them with divorce them and I think he's
remarried to a new woman. That's so weird how women love to marry people on death row.
Yeah. Bruce Davis, another convicted Manson family member is married. You might recall the
year or two before Charlie died. He was engaged to this young woman that really looked a lot like
Susan Atkins, star, who is interesting now. She is now the lover of, oh shoot, I forgot his name.
He's an actor and he was a Manson obsessive. There was a movie called Buffalo 66, offensin.
Ah, can I look? Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Because this is fascinating and it's
never been reported before to my knowledge. She was engaged to Manson,
living outside of the prison walls in Corkerim with a guy named Gray Wolf, who was Manson's
communication man on the outside. Like when I interviewed Manson, I had to go through Gray
Wolf. To get to Manson, everything had to come through him. So Gray Wolf was an old hippie in
like his 70s. Star was living with him and visiting Manson every weekend that she could.
They were this close to getting married and then Manson found out that she was fucking Gray Wolf.
So he ended his relationship with her and his relationship with Gray Wolf, who had literally
devoted his life to making sure Manson had money, got his mail. Any interview that Manson did had
to be approved by Gray Wolf. Right. And a friend of Manson's who I kept in touch with said that
Charlie cried himself to sleep every night after found out he had been betrayed by both Star and
Gray Wolf. And I thought, you know, she couldn't get laid with Charlie. So she was maybe thinking
of Manson when she slept with this guy who looked a lot like him, the same age, but maybe a foot
taller. I would imagine a guy like Manson would have already been able to cope with that idea
by that point, having spent his whole life in prison. Of course. Like having not thought of
that scenario already. And I mean, when he was Manson, he was sleeping with five women a day.
There was nothing about monogamy in their lifestyle. But you know, I guess when it's,
when you're an older guy and it's done to you, maybe.
And the girl, Star, she was much younger. Yeah. Yeah. She was like in her 20s or something.
Yeah. And she shaved her head. She did the swastika on her forehead. I can't remember if it was
scratched in or maybe tattooed or something. The actor's name is Vincent Gallo. And he was kind
of an underground indie actor, but I'll show you a picture. Pull him up on the, on the screen, Austin.
This guy?
That guy. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah.
Huh. He looks kind of like, he looks like a freak. Yeah. He was a Calvin Klein model.
He used to live around the corner from me in little Italy in Manhattan in the 70s and 80s.
Oh, really? Yeah. And he did a lot of really good movies. He directed a couple.
He moved out here. He does character parts in some films. And he's obsessed with Manson.
Yeah. So I think he got to know Gray Wolf and they were interested in, he would buy stuff at
auction, you know, Manson's paintings and things like that. And somehow Star got in the mix. So as
soon as Gray Wolf threw Star out, my sources told me that she moved out to Malibu and he took her in
and they became lovers. And now they're in New Mexico or Arizona or something.
Wow. That's wild. Yeah. Yeah. That's totally wild. A lot of soap opera drama even to this day.
So you met Manson face to face? No. No. You never got in the same room. Unfortunately,
when I interviewed him in 2000, he was what they call it in the whole
in solitary confinement. He wasn't allowed to have visitors. He was only allowed out of his cell
like for an hour a day and he was allowed to make phone calls one night a week. So during the period
that I had finally set up the interviews, I couldn't go in. And you always want to face somebody.
And it's really frustrating, especially with a guy like him that plays so many games.
Yeah. So we talked on the phone two or three nights. One of my claims of fame is the first
time I spoke to him, I went to premiere the magazine who had commissioned the article because
my editor didn't want them having my home phone number. So she's like, you have to do it at the
offices. I don't want them to know how to find you. I'm like, if they want to find me, they're
going to find me. But I agree to do it. Who's they? Manson and the people that are on the outside of
prison. His crew outside. So I went to their offices and you know, it was nighttime, like
nine or 10 o'clock. And all of a sudden it occurred to me it was Valentine's Day. And I'm like,
wow, this is tragic. My Valentine's Day is a date with Charlie Manson. So when he answered the phone
or when he got on the phone, he called me and I go, hey, Charlie, how are you doing? He goes,
real good, man. How are you? And I go, great. I go, happy Valentine's Day. He goes, oh, thanks,
man. Same to you. Charles Manson was your Valentine. Yeah. Marilyn Manson texted you on
Easter. I was at a wedding in London about 15 years ago and there was this very old man there.
And we had a competition to see who had the greatest brush with evil. He won. Mine was the
Manson thing. Happy Valentine's Day, Charlie. He was a Jewish man who when he was about seven or
eight years old was playing with some friends and the Fuhrer out of Hitler was surveying this little
community he lived in that was, they had already been partitioned off the Jews. And he said to
this little boy who was like seven or eight, you're a cute little boy, which like an ice cream
cone. And he said, yes. So Hitler bought him an ice cream cone. What? So at the wedding they had
a vote to decide who had the best brush with evil and they decided that getting an ice cream cone
from the out of Hitler was scarier than Manson saying happy Valentine's Day. Jesus. Yeah. I would
say it trumps the Manson Valentine's Day. Holy shit. Yeah. Okay. So let's backtrack a little bit.
Tell, explain to people who don't already know how, how did this whole thing start for you? Like,
how did this whole journey start with, with you just being, you weren't initially interested in
this story at all. You just kind of like came stumbling across this job. I didn't even want to go.
Yeah. I was freelancing. You know, I'd moved out to LA for what I thought was going to be two years.
Sublet My Place in New York was going to go back the following like six months later. My editor,
who I'd written with at another magazine that we had all left. It was called Us Magazine. It's
still around. It used to be an entertainment magazine that was mostly about motion pictures,
music and TV. And Jan Wenner, who owned it in Rolling Stone, had decided to make a much more
tabloid-y reality TV. He was just starting and he wanted us to do stories about the Kardashians
or reality people. So all of us at the magazine let our contracts go and quit and they all went
to Premier Magazine, all the people who I worked for. So she said, you should come over with us,
but you got to do one great piece here. And she said the Manson, the anniversary of the
Tate LaBianca murders are coming up in August. This was March. And she said, do a story on it.
I'm like, a story on what? And she goes, read the book. You'll find an angle. I go,
come on, Leslie. I go, number one, I've never read the book. Hasn't it been written to death?
And I didn't say that to be funny. I didn't realize it till after I said it. And I just said,
there's nothing about that that interests me. And she said, well, it's what I got for you right
now. And I know you need the money because I hadn't worked for a few months. And she said, here's
something I'll tell you. Now that I put his name into your head, you're going to realize that you
hear him referenced sometimes every day. She said, I hear he's always compared to the most evil person
in the world described as a metaphor for evil, popular culture, news. And sure enough, all of
a sudden I'm here seeing his name in newspapers, just as a descriptive, like an adjective or
something. So I agreed to do it. And it was supposed to be a three month job. And I read
Helter Skelter. And I circled stuff or noted stuff that seemed a little bit, you know,
something that I thought could be explored a little more. And there were lots of stuff that
Buleosi, who was the author of Vince Buleosi, and also the prosecutor who convicted the
Manson family group in the trial in 70 and 71. There was a lot of stuff I could kind of go along
with. But I'm like, Leslie, this is so amorphous. I don't know how. And she said, once you start,
you'll find an angle you always do. I've been working with her for like 15 years in the magazine
business. And she was always my editor. And we thought alike. And she was great. So she said,
if you can't find anything else, just find out how it changed kind of the culture of Hollywood.
Because, you know, that's when everybody started retreating from public places, stars, you know,
putting walls up, buying guard dogs. They didn't feel safe in their homes anymore.
That didn't interest me either. But I thought, all right, I need the money. But what I did
was I read Helter Skelter. And then I interviewed Vince Buleosi first, spent about six hours at
his house. He was very generous with me, talked and talked and talked, said a couple things that
are too complicated to explain in an interview. It would take like a half hour. But if you read the
book, it takes chapters. And it's not to the very end, you realize why it's so important. A couple
lies he told me. But after that, he basically told me everything. I'd already read him. He'd said
to other interviewers for years and years. I thought, why don't I reach out to people who've
never talked about the case, principal witnesses. Because at the time, people really were frightened
of the Manson family members on the outside. So the prosecution witnesses, the guy that owned the
Tate lobby, the guy that owned the Tate house that rented it to him, has always been pursued by
journalists because he's never talked about his pivotal part in all this. Terry Melcher,
Doris Day's son, who also was connected to Manson. So with the passage of time,
I thought maybe they won't be as frightened. Maybe people who wouldn't talk will.
So first, actually, I reached out to people like Sharon Tate, Roman Polinsky's crowd. They were
very close friends to dozens of Hollywood people, but most close to Robert Evans, the producer,
Ali McGraw, when Michelle Phillips, John Phillips of the Mamas and the poppers,
Warren Beatty, Jane Fonda, Roger Vadim, none of them would talk to me. No one would talk to me.
Started getting really frustrating. And then I went to the witnesses, people who actually were
lesser known except in the Hollywood industry. And I got a couple to agree to talk to me. And I
realized it wasn't that they were less scared, but nothing had really happened to them since then.
A lot of them, their lives went off the rails, being associated with this, especially this one
guy, Rudy, who owned the house where the murders happened. And he was a principal prosecution
witness for Biliosi. He had to testify about Manson having this visit to the house before
the murders to establish that Manson knew where these people lived and how to get into the property.
And Rudy had lost his life savings. He had owned that house,
kind of became a drug addict, went through everything, had to sell the house to Trent
Resner of the Nine Inch Nails, and was living in a shitty like garage apartment in Ben Nye's.
What year did you sell the house to Trent Resner? I think it was, I think he owned it for 20 years
after the murders. So that would be 79, 89, maybe around then. And he had a long-time
business partner who was his lover. That guy had died. And he was being kept alive,
and his bills were paid by an interesting group of his former clients. He was a talent manager.
Dick Van Dyke, Jack Nicholson, Jimmy Darren, who was kind of a pop singer actor,
and Sally Kellerman. So they would give him allowance because they all felt so sorry for him.
So I started trying to get him to talk to me, and first he wanted me to pan, and you're not
allowed to pay people. I said, I'll just take you out to a really nice meal. That's the best I can
do. So we went to the famous Musso & Frank restaurant, which if you saw once upon a time in Hollywood,
it's where Al Pacino's character has his first big dinner with Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio.
It's a classic Hollywood movie location restaurant. So that turned into weekly dinners
for about two or three years. Weekly for two or three years. I mean, because he was lonely.
After the very first dinner, when he was driving home, he said he was chased off the road,
got in a car accident, was almost killed. He thought that it was because he talked to me.
Everything did happen. He did have an accident. Somebody hit him and ran. He did have to go to
the hospital. I tried not to get paranoid. Nobody ever did again. He got notes and stuff from people
telling him to stop talking to me. But the point being, he didn't have enough money to buy another
car. So then I had to drive out there to Van Nuys from Venice, which is he always wanted to go about
five or six o'clock. So that meant a two-hour drive with rush hour traffic. Then he always wanted
to go out at swank places in Hollywood. So that's another rush hour traffic. It could be 45 minutes.
We get to a restaurant and he wouldn't order food for two hours because he wanted to have all his
martinis or gin and tonics. The next thing you know, he's grabbing the waiter's asses. He was a
real character and he got away with it. Then I'd have to on the way home stop at the supermarket
at midnight. I didn't pay for his groceries, but walk with him through the store and it
took forever. So it was like an eight hour investment. I had to drive all the way back to
Venice, but he was giving me information. That's how you get it. You have to really kind of
embed yourself into people's confidence and lives. He was the first and then there was like
dominoes because people knew he was talking to me. More people talk to me. But it doesn't happen
overnight. So that's when the story changed and evolved into something that wasn't going to be
a magazine story anymore. My editor-in-chief of Premier became obsessed with what I was finding.
So he kept extending my deadline. He said, we don't need to do it for the anniversary. This is
too important. So I think they paid me for a year and a half, a monthly salary, just to report the
story. Then that editor-in-chief got fired and I went to my editor who worked under him and I
said, please tell me Jim didn't get fired because of all the money that he had spent like a hundred
and like $150,000. Not just on my salary, but on my expenses for dinners and stuff and I would
phone the London to interview people. She said it didn't help. So a new editor was hired and
I got a call the next day from that him and he said, sounds like you got a really exciting story
there. I go, I hope so. He goes, well, I'm really going to be proud to publish it and I'm slating
it for the issue after the next. I can't finish it. Jim would have told you. He goes, no, no,
Jim's not here anymore. He goes, you've got to have it in. So at that point, I got a book agent
and I didn't want to put out what I had because there were so many loose ends and I thought,
once I put out the most important stuff, the LA Times, maybe I was grandiose,
the New York Times, they're going to put their teams on this and they're going to get
good. They're going to finish it, right? Yeah. So my agent got me out of my contract with a caveat
that I had to reimburse, blah, blah, blah. Definitely the right thing to do. Yeah. So at that point,
well, sometimes I wonder because the next thing I knew, I didn't sell the book for another five
years. In 2005, I sold the proposal, but I got an enormous, it was going to go to auction,
so the publisher Penguin Press gave me what's called a preemptive bid, which is higher than
they'd normally pay, but for, I think it was 48 hours, nobody else could try to make a deal with
me. And if I didn't take their offer in 48 hours and they would withdraw, then it would go to auction.
Okay. So I said, yes, my agent said they're really the best publisher in the business. You know,
they do like presidential memoirs and they're boutique and powerful and just publishing with
them is going to give your crazy conspiracy book complete legitimacy. So I did and they gave an
advance that was like record breaking for somebody who had never written a book before. I'd just
been a magazine journalist and that looked like it was going to be a real happy ending, but then
they got impatient in 2011, a long story short. They canceled the deal and worse, they then sued
me for a return of the advance, which had been spent by me on all my reporting. So from 2012 to
about 14 or 15, everything was frozen. I couldn't go out and try to sell the book until the lawsuit
was resolved. I would get a pro bono lawyer. So I just kept reporting as if I was going to have
something. How are you paying your bills? I was living, borrowing money and living off of what
little was left from the advance, but I lived very frugally. I mean, I'd done it in New York for years.
You know, I was a struggling journalist. I drove a horse in carriage in Central Park for eight years.
I knew how to hustle, but I didn't have any real full-time job during that period because I worked
seven days a week researching. So once the lawsuit was resolved in 2016, I think, or 15,
I got down as a collaborator and we revised my book proposal. The original book proposal was
book length. There was 220 pages. In fact, when Anne and Scott, the two people at Penguin Press,
bought it, they said, you know, you've written the book. All you have to do is fill in some of the
this is the guts. Just fill in some of the stuff. I'm like, yeah, easier said than done.
They're still reporting. So once I got this wonder kid on and only because Prince died,
if Prince hadn't died, he would have been working with Prince for three more years. Prince died
and all of a sudden his agent said to my agent, you know, I heard you're looking for someone.
Dan would be perfect for this. He can't pick up the Prince thing for at least two years until
that estate is figured out because they were all fighting over whatever Prince, you know,
his money, his future projects. So Dan had like two years off and he and I turned it out in two
years. And it came out literally, we turned in the final draft. I mean, after all the edits and
notes from the publisher, the day before what would have been the 20th anniversary of the
magazine assignment. So it was literally 20 solid years. That's incredible, man. That's incredible.
But I don't advise anybody to do that. It took off 40 years in my life. It was brutal. I mean,
you keep thinking it's going to end and it doesn't. And the scariest thing is if the book
had never come out. Yeah. That would have been, I would have been the tragic figure who, you know,
spent his whole life writing a book and then never publishing his book. So I mean, now I feel
like if I got run over by a bus today, that's fine. Yeah. This is still here. Right, right.
You hit the, you achieved your goal. You got, you've got it out and you can wash your hands. But
you're still, you're still, you know, obviously going to put out more. Yeah. And now it's not
going to take 20 years this time. So, okay. What was the guy's name who owned the house? Who sold
the Trent Resner? Rudy Altebelli. Rudy. And he's, I think you tell an interesting story about him
that just happened recently. So Quentin Tarantino released his movie, you know, a few months after
my book came out once upon a time in Hollywood. And I think it was his most successful movie
box office-wise to date. And I had two mutual friends of his. And one of them is one of his
producers and his longtime first AD. And the other one was an ex-girlfriend, who's one of his only
ex-girlfriends who remain friends with him. So both of them gave him a copy of my book, an advanced
copy that I had signed months before my book came out and months before his movie came out.
And they both, they said we're not going to give it to him unless we read it first. We know you,
we love you, but we want to make sure it's something that he'd like because everybody
wants you to give something to Quentin. So they did. And, you know, he never read it. And I wasn't
surprised because, you know, he's about to release one of the biggest movies of his career, a lot
of publicity. So about a year after, like last fall, I think it was, I got a call from one of
our mutual friends and he said, can Quentin call you now? Excuse me, I needed him like two years
ago, but sure. I go, why? He goes, he's obsessed with your book. He finally got to read the one I
gave him. And he has a million questions. And, you know, if Quentin Tarantino has a million
questions, that means it's like, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So he called me from Israel,
where he was living. And, you know, I just read an interview with him a couple of days ago.
I knew he was there and I didn't know why I knew he had married an Israeli woman and had a baby
there. But he, when the pandemic hit, they wouldn't let him back in. So he got, I guess,
hopefully he's not still there now. He was on Jimmy Kimmel a couple of nights ago. But he was
there doing a lot of that. And the interview I read said, I think he was in Tel Aviv. He
didn't say anything about, you know, bombing violence or anything. He just said how much he
loved it there. So he and his wife and kid have now moved back, I think, in the last month or two.
But so he started calling me. And it wasn't just because he had a million questions, but it was
because he was doing the novelization of the movie, where he's adding, fleshing out characters,
adding scenes. And he'd always wanted to write a paperback book, kind of like a pulpy paperback
book. So that comes out Tuesday. And he, talking about Rudy Altabelli, and like our second or
third conversation, like, Rudy, how did you ever get Rudy to talk to you? That's amazing. He goes,
damn it, you know, I've got his character in the book. I didn't have him in the movie. But I have
to, you know, fake his name, you know, or he goes, or do you think if you reached out to Rudy
and ask, would he take like a quarter million dollars from me to let me use his name in the book
and promise not to sue me? I go, Quentin, Rudy's been dead for 10 years. He said,
kid me, you just saved me a quarter million dollars. And you know, I'm still in debt,
hundreds of thousands of dollars. And I'm like, Rudy, or Quentin, give it to me. Or I should have
said, give me the cash and I'll deliver it to Rudy for you. Oh, yeah, you definitely should have
done that. So the book comes out Tuesday and I'm hoping. You know the name of it? It's the same
name as the title of the movie, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. Yeah, yeah. So I think he was on
Jimmy Kimmel a night or two ago and I was flying, so I didn't see it, but I read the recap of the
interview. But I'm hoping, you know, for the in-depth interviews, you know, if he was telling me the
truth, he said, oh my God, he goes, I thought I knew this and I didn't know anything about this
character, that character. I'm hoping he'll mention the book because all the Quentin fans
then might be interested and get the book. Right. Yeah, so we'll not. But it's already, you know,
it's going to be a bestseller because it's a Quentin Tarantino book. It's the first one he's
ever written. And he keeps saying, I didn't just turn the novel into a script. He goes, it's like
a whole fresh take, new characters, much more about the Manson family, the murders, all this stuff.
Because there was literally barely anything about Manson in the movie. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He released
a trailer, the publisher released a trailer last week that he put together for the book. So it's
like a two-minute trailer and he has scenes in the trailer that are in the book, but they were
cut from the movie. So there is a scene between the Manson character at the house looking for
Terry Melcher and they don't show who he's talking to. But in real life, it would have been Rudy
out the belly. So the guy who was in the house, he went up there looking for him. So I'll know a
lot when the book comes out Tuesday. I hope he gives me an acknowledgement if I saved him a
quarter million dollars. Oh, right? Yeah, he definitely needs to put your name in there,
shout you out somewhere. Yeah, yeah. Fucking Quentin. So Rudy, so when you talk to Rudy,
I mean that, what was it about Rudy that opened, what did he tell you that opened Pandora's box
for you? It began very slowly. He started telling me that he had suffered more than anybody else
who was associated with the victims, Sharon and the boy, the boy Jacob O'Cowsey, Abigail, you know,
they were all his friends too. He lived in the house behind the main house. So Rudy owned this
beautiful property at the top of C. L. O. Drive. It was like a French designed country house.
One story with like beautiful views everywhere. There was a pool and then there was a guest house.
So he lived in the guest house, bought the house I think in the 40s. And he, among the tenants who
stayed there were Catherine Hepburn, Clark Gable, Carrie Grant, and then Terry Melcher,
who's the son of Doris Day. He was a music producer. He moved in there in 65, moved out in
January of 69. And they all rented from Rudy. And Rudy always stayed in the back house because
that's all he needed. But he only rented to people he thought he'd party with. He was a huge partier.
He was one of the first out gay guys in Hollywood who flamboyant, didn't care what people thought,
real character. And when Roman and Sharon moved in, he and Sharon became very, very close, Sharon
Tate. So they moved in in February of 69. And then in March, the two of them went to Europe,
him to do script notes and fixing on the Day of the Dolphin, which he was going to direct in London.
And Sharon went to make a devil movie called The Thirteen Chairs in Italy. And then Sharon came back
in July. And Rudy never came back. He went over with Sharon. He flew over there. He wasn't her
manager, he was just her best friend. So they flew together. And then he went off with an actress
named Olivia Hussie, who was in Romeo and Juliet, which was his big sensational 1969 movie.
So his relationship with Roman and Sharon and Terry Melcher was really important to what became
the line of inquiry I was doing. Did people in Hollywood have relationships with Manson that
were concealed by either Hollywood, the machine, the publicity machine, or law enforcement?
And Rudy started kind of telling me, yeah. So he'd get drunk. I'd usually drive him home,
and he'd always want me to come into his shitty little apartment for one more nightcap.
And that's when he'd start talking. And he had a few drinks. And he goes, you know what?
Terry went on. He had a great career, produced all these bands. He was still alive then.
Romans never suffered for this. He was the only one who lost their house, lost their reputation,
because people thought he had a relationship with the family, even law enforcement. They
eventually said he didn't, but a relationship with the Manson family, that was another reason
for them to come up there. He was just bitter and angry. And he said, if the truth ever came out
about Roman and them and Terry and Dennis Wilson and the Beach Boys and some other people,
he goes, nobody would believe it, but it's true. And I could tell you. And so he ended up starting
telling me how to prove that the district attorney, Buleosi, had covered up the much more involved
relationship with Terry Melcher, for instance, and then government people who were involved with
Manson. And it's hard to say if people haven't read the book, and I don't want to give too much away,
because part of the font of the book is, you think it's gotten pretty crazy and it's over,
and then like the next couple pages is like, no, what? It's even crazier.
So the official narrative of Manson is that from a young kid, his mom was a prostitute.
And he was just involved in a bunch of petty crimes throughout his life in and out of prison,
and he kept getting out of prison. And then eventually there was one point where he went
in for seven years, and then he came out different in 67. And he immediately violated his parole.
He was paroled to Los Angeles. Without permission, he went up to San Francisco to the Bay Area,
turned up at the parole office and said, I want a parole officer up here. They looked him up and
they said, you're not allowed to be here. You've got to go back to LA. They wrote to LA. LA demanded
he come back. He didn't. And then all of a sudden something happened, which I can't find the paper
record of. The reason I have the records I do have is I did freedom of information requests
to the Bureau of Prisons, and I got a part of his parole record for the time he was supervised
from his release until the murders, which paints a whole different picture. He got assigned to
a parole officer in San Francisco named Roger Smith, who was a criminology student at Berkeley,
and also a drug researcher, and working out of the Haydashbury Free Medical Clinic. And that's
where things get really crazy. Was he connected to Sidney Gottlieb? Not that I know of, but
Jolly West, who was a psychiatrist, who went to the Leave of Absence from the University of
Oklahoma to study the explosion of the Summer of Love in 1967. He somehow anticipated that,
like six months before, he went to the hate. He opened what he called a hippie pad, a laboratory
described as disguised as a hippie pad, where they put up posters, and he had grad students.
He told them in January, grow your hair long. I want you to staff this hippie pad, and we're
going to study the young kids that are going to invade the hate in the summer. He knew this all
in advance, and there's a whole reason that I won't get into here about how he knew it, because
it was basically engineered by a bunch of these people to happen in government.
And Jolly West had been working in the CIA's MK-ALTER program since 1953,
which was a program that their ultimate goal was to learn how to create programmed assassins.
People who would kill without recollection of not only the killing,
also their programming, and that was what this guy's specialty was. He was a very well-known
psychiatrist, and in the 70s, 75, this information about this secret program, MK-ALTER, came out
because a State Department person who found the records, what was left of the records,
blew the whistle. There were congressional hearings. He was identified as one of the CIA
researchers who gave drugs to prisoners, to people in fake apartments to study them,
in the hate in New York and a couple other cities, and he was finger, but he denied it,
and he was never investigated. At that point, after 69, he went to Los Angeles to UCLA and became
the head of the psychiatry department there until he retired and then died. The year I started this
book, it was the year he died. Oh, wow. And he was actually murdered by his son.
What? Well, he was dying of cancer, as was his wife, and his wife was a doctor, too.
They had a family plan that if they ever became terminally ill, that the son would give them
administered lethal drugs to them. So nobody knew it at the time, but after both of them were dead,
and I think the son waited a number of years, there's no statute of limitation on murder,
but for this kind of thing, I'm not sure why, but he did publish a book in the early 2000s.
So they died, and both they died like six months apart. His parents were killed by the son,
and that was 1999, and the son published a book in about 2011 called The Last Good Night,
where he describes the planning and the killing of Jolly West and his wife, Catherine,
by lethal drug administration. Where is he now? You want to know. That's weird. So the son wouldn't
talk to me. Before he wrote the book, he said, I will never talk about my father. It's too dangerous.
He had too many secrets. I couldn't get him to talk to me. Then the book comes out in 2012 or
13, where he talks about the rumors of his father being CIA, but he doesn't say anything more.
It's mostly about just the human family drama of what it's like to have to be talked into it by
both your parents, and then to actually carry it out for them. I mean, he got a lot of press. He
was on Good Morning America, you know, all the talk shows. So when the book came out, I thought,
well, now he's gone public. I'll try him again. But I waited a year or two,
and found out he had died in the previous year or two, and he would have only been about 55.
I can't find any record of where he died, how he died. He has two sisters. Neither of them would
talk to me. One's in Europe and one's in New York. I beg them to let me interview them.
So I don't know what happened to him. I just found a death notice on Ancestry,
and no record of him at any of his old addresses.
That's so weird. So he didn't get any trouble for killing his parents,
even though they wanted him to kill them? He didn't, yeah. I mean, I have the book,
and somebody asked me recently how he got away with it, and I think it was something
technical, like he enabled them to inject it themselves. He gave them everything. He did
all the concoction, but he didn't do the injection. Something like that, or so he said, who knows,
he did it to a way, he had lawyers advising him, and there was definitely a risk of him getting
charged. But I think it would have only been an accessory. And maybe it was that, that if it's
only an accessory after a certain number of years, they can't charge you, rather than the actual
murder. I'm not sure that's a good question, though. Wow, what a crazy thing, huh? So Jolly West
was working at the Haydashbury Free Medical Clinic, which serviced the community in the summer of
67. It was built to take care of the needs of all these runaways, and it was opened by a guy named
David Smith. This gets confusing. David Smith allowed Jolly to recruit subjects for his studies
of hippies and LSD around the corner in his hippie pad, laboratory disguised as a hippie pad,
and Roger Smith, who was the parole officer at Manson, had Manson come to the Haydashbury
Free Medical Clinic where he was working on his own drug research and doing his parole,
and it was during those pivotal two or three months. Manson got out in March of 67. He was just an
ex-con. He'd been in prison half his life. He was 32, I think, was 17 years in and out of federal
institutions. For dumb stuff, like stealing cars, robbing grocery stores. Yeah, he was never in a
county jail, except waiting for federal trials. Yeah, stealing a car and then taking it across
the state line, which makes it federal. The last thing he went to prison for was stealing an envelope
from the mail, which made it a federal offense. If that had been stealing, there was a check for
$37 that he cashed. If he had just stolen that check and cashed it, it would have been a local
thing. He probably wouldn't have even gotten jail time, but since he took it from a mailbox,
he got a 10-year sentence. We're going to go into that more in the second book about
it looks like they wanted him in these federal places for all those years. Even Buleos, he
admits in the book, why every single time he committed a petty crime, stealing a car is
not that serious. It happens all the time, but he always happened to go across the state line,
maybe just for a few hours, and then come right back. He said it was weird. Buleos, he admitted it.
Well, I found evidence that he didn't go of his own volition. He had no reason to go to the next
state because they were doing this research in prisons. I don't want to say it now because I
haven't proven any of this part yet, but I'm building a case now that this all began when he
was still in prison. They're experimenting with him. Have you ever met a guy? Have you ever
heard of Stephen Kinzer? Yeah, he wrote the Sydney Gottlieb book. Right. I talked to him
about that. The way he explains MKUltra is just fascinating how he had to go to different countries,
went to Germany just because he was violating the human rights. The stuff he was doing,
he had a license to kill from the government. He was destroying people. So you had him on the
podcast? Yeah. How'd it go? It was great. Maybe it was you guys. Somebody asked me if I would go on
a podcast with him, and I said... Yes, it was. Yeah, I wanted to have you guys both on together.
And I said, I don't think he'd do it. His book is very straightforward. He's a New York Times
bestselling author. It's not academic, but it's very sober. I don't think he'd want to be
in my category. He kind of shut down a little bit when I started to ask him about Charles Manson.
Yeah, of course, yeah. I'd love to sit down and ask him why Louis Jolly West isn't even in his
index in his book. And this guy, my book was already out before his book, and nobody wants to
take somebody else's findings. Even you would obviously acknowledge them. But I have the documents.
I show that he was Gottlieb's first psychiatric partner when he was at the Lackland Air Force
base in Texas. I have all the letters that I found that West accidentally left in his archive at UCLA,
where they're page after page after page describing what kind of experiments they're
going to do. They're all illegal on human, on patients. And West says we can hide it from the
other doctors on these wards because the patients are already suffering from mental illness. So
what I do to them is just going to look like another one of their, but it's going to be with
my drugs and hypnosis. And Gottlieb's like, well, you have to double, you know, all the
ways they're going to hide their correspondence. Gottlieb had an alias. He wanted West to have
an alias, but West didn't want one because he thought that would draw attention if anybody
caught that. So he did that for from 53 to at least 67, 68. I've got a paper record of him
corresponding with Gottlieb. And nobody has the unredacted record like I do. Like everything
Kinzer saw, here's a little bit of my sour grapes, was stuff he got through other people's Freedom
of Information Act requests. And it's all redacted because I read his book. He doesn't have new
information in there from documents. He's got he's got a lot of great stuff in there that fills
him gaps. But for him to completely ignore the scientists that John Marx, John Marx is the whistleblower
who was a State Department official who found these financial records for MKUltra, went to
Congress, told them about it, caused a congressional investigation. Seymour Hirsch, the famous investigative
journalist, worked with Marx and he wrote the first big stories in 1974 or five on this horrifying
program that our government did since the early fifties where they were testing drugs
on people without their awareness, making them human guinea pigs. And some of these people died,
you know, committed suicide or had massive nervous breakdowns. So I didn't think Kinzer was,
if he hadn't even mentioned my findings, I knew that he didn't want to have anything to do with
my book. Why would he, what would be his reasoning of ignoring the stuff about West?
Do you want to know what other people tell me? Yeah, I do. I'm fascinated by it.
Do you know what a limited hangout is? What's a limited hangout? A limited hangout is when an agency
uses a media person to release more information than they've released before because it's coming
out anyway or it's about to come out to try to keep people from suspecting even worse. So
people accuse him of being, actually I would love to have him see this podcast and reach out to me
and tell me he's going to sue me or something. So people I know who are serious researchers think
he's paid by the CIA. Really? It's called a limited hangout guy.
Wow. So because people would question it if it came directly to the government agency.
There's not a lot of new information in this book. So there's only been a couple of really
good books about MK Alter. They were all written in the 70s. John Marks, who was a whistleblower,
wrote the very first book. It's called The Search for the Manchurian Candidate. Seymour
Hirsch wrote about it in a couple books. A guy named Optin and Lifton, I think their names. So
they wrote a book called The Mind Manipulators in the late 70s. And nobody really wrote a book
just about MK Alter until Kinzer did. And I think his book came out like six months after mine or
something. I think that, I mean, there's a lot of stuff that's not substantiated in this. Unless
you read it cover to cover, it sounds crazy. And that's why, I mean, I don't want to, I know that
I was on Rogan and Rogan's audience is an audible, you know, they listened to books. And I'm so glad
that people are buying the book much more since they've been on a show, but almost all of them
buy the audiobooks. And I listen to audiobooks now, but if you do the audio, you're not seeing
all the sourcing. Hold it up a little higher so we can see it on the, there you go. Yeah, I think
it's 60, 70 pages of end notes. And I don't know if you're an author, but what authors do in the
end notes is we cheat by adding more information than you really should, because it doesn't fit in
here. You don't want to stop the reader with like where this came from. Right, it disrupts the flow.
Yeah, it disrupts the flow. So you put in the end notes, but then what you do is you give a little
more that you had to cut out of the main narrative because it gets too detailed. So some of my end
notes are like a half a page long. And there's just so much information in the end notes. I'm more
proud of the end notes half the time. Really? Yeah. So yeah, so people that get the, they also,
you don't get the pictures, right? In the audiobook? No, you don't get the pictures.
It's just people, I mean, nobody has the, with all the, you know, media on your phone and everything
these days is people don't have time to do anything. I can't blame them on the same way.
You know, who has time to sit down in front of a book for hours on end. So this is Rudy in the
guest house having a party and that's Candice Bergen. And this is like 1966. Rudy Altabelle.
And then this is him when I would go see him in his apartment. I took that picture of him and
he had like 20 cats. Wow. Yeah. That's incredible. So
What? Yeah, yeah, he hold it up by your face.
There you go. And you can just point to it that way. The camera can see it right now.
This is Rudy with his kitten. Yep. Yeah. He took care like 20 straight cats and had three crippled
dogs and got mugged in his neighborhood like once a month. And then when Rudy lived in the
guest house in the 60s, whoever was in the main house became especially the women will be like
his pet. So Candice Bergen and he were very close. She was Terry Melcher's girlfriend.
So that's a party he's having with Karen or Terrence or Candice in the guest house.
That's that's Candice and Terry Melcher. But yeah, if you guys didn't get the if you only get the
audio but you don't get this. No, I'm going to order. I'm going to order the hard the hard cover.
That's a picture of me when I was young when I started the damn thing and didn't go white
until my threats. Wow, man. Look at your computer. Oh, yeah. The computer really tells it all.
I know. And the one at the bottom is me more recently in my office with. Okay. Oh my God.
What a bookshelf that is. That's incredible. Yeah. And the thing about about MKUltra is they
like all the studies they did on the prisoners like Whitey Bulger. Yeah. Apparently like what's
the story with him and MKUltra? Well, the government admitted after he died.
That's when it came out. I can't remember who I think it was a journalist or something or maybe
it was during his trial. I thought he was like openly talking about it. Yeah, he was talking about
but nobody would believe it. But during his trial, I think it was his lawyers were able to get his
prison records and somebody sent them to me recently where they have the dates that he's given LSD
and this was all in the 50s. You know, before Manson was in prison, but
in the 50s, he was still a kid. Well, he got out of prison in 67 or 32. So 57, he would have been
22. He was in the same prisons that were treating people like Bulger experimentally with LSD.
So one of the jurors who convicted Whitey Bulger reached out to me when my book came out and
she's gotten a lot of national attention. She didn't know that there was a little bit of mention
in the trial, but the judge wouldn't let too much of it in. After he was convicted, he started
writing her and telling her all about the experiments and she is a very good reporter.
She's not a journalist, but she lives in Boston and she started looking into it, working with
researchers and found out that it was much more extensive than anybody ever knew and could have
been the reason he became such a violent sociopath in the years. When he was very young,
it didn't happen. Then he became a notorious killer after. And then entire time being protected
by the government. He was a federal informant, you know, and well, with two agents who the FBI
denies anybody, but the agents knew that they were rogue agents that were paying him to get
information and provoking him and stuff. So she wanted me to write a book with her.
And I just said, I can't do something just on Whitey, but keep coming to me with your
information. So we've been sharing information since I haven't talked to her for a few months,
so I don't know if she found another author. But yeah, Whitey Bulger had what happened to,
I believe, Manson in prison on paper. I don't have a record yet like she got,
but I'm working with some people now trying to get records from when he was in prison and they
won't release them because they say they're medical records. But he's a convicted, dead,
notorious criminal. So I've got, I actually have a lot of work to do. I have to find out how
they got the medical records of Whitey. I think, I think it was because Whitey was alive and Whitey
shared them and he had access to his own records. But I don't think I'm ever going to get the rest
of the records from, if you read in the book, it took me like two years to get the records I did
get from the Bureau of Prisons about Manson. And the trial, when he was convicted, his defense
attorney was trying to get his prison record and they wouldn't release it to him. And this was
during the death penalty phase of the trial. And when I talked to experts about that, they said,
they can't, anything should be allowed to be introduced when somebody's life is at stake.
So the state was arguing for Manson and the others to be executed. Irving Canary, the defense
attorney, wanted to show that Manson had always been a docile prisoner, had never been badly
behaved in prison, never been violent. And he couldn't believe that the government, the U.S.
government wouldn't release the record. And he screamed and hollered. And since the trial was
such a circus, and Irving Canary was pretty crazy too, nobody took him seriously. And it wasn't,
I talk about it in my book, the attorney general in 1971, John Mitchell, who ended up going to his
prison himself for being part of Nixon's cabinet and part of the plumbers and stuff, you know,
mid to late 70s, he sent a representative of the Department of Justice who worked beneath him
to argue to the judge against releasing Manson's file. I can't find evidence of that having any
other case in the history, but I believe that's just like the Watson tapes. There's secrets in
there about what was going on with Manson's head and what they were doing to it that they're
never going to share. So the record I got was, I think, 70 pages out of probably 300 or 400.
They described it, one of the, Canary got somebody to describe what the parole record looked like,
I think they said it was like two phone books thick. And I got like that much.
So who was his parole officer before he went in for the seven years?
Well, that was interesting. The parole officer who violated him in 19,
so he got convicted for the stealing the letter in the mailbox.
Yeah. And that was a 10 year sentence. And he was released, I think after two years on parole.
And then within a month or two, he didn't show up for a parole hearing, not a parole hearing,
an appointment with his parole officer. They immediately violated him, sent federal marshals
to Texas who went into Mexico where they had information that he was in Mexico.
The Mexicans turned him over to the marshals at the border of Laredo, Texas. They don't do that
for these small time criminals. And then they brought him back to LA and then he was sent to do
the next eight years of his prison sentence, which would have taken him, I think, to 69 or 70.
But then they decided to release him two years early in 67. So you could go and do what he did.
But what's so ironic, and I mentioned this in the book, he got sent back to prison for missing
one appointment, one meeting, you know, you're supposed to go either once a week or once a month.
Roger Smith, when he was his parole officer, he wouldn't show up for meetings and then when
he was down in LA for months at a time and he was never violated. He was getting arrested for rape,
for drug possession, for pimping during 67, 69 charges dropped every time. In my book,
I have a scene where I take this record that I had gotten, what few pages they released to me,
you know, the prisons to this retired district attorney named Louis Watnick
in Van Nuys. See the judge? He was a judge, yeah. So he had been a DA and then he became a judge
in I think it was Van Nuys. And then he retired and he was sick and dying and he's like on a
oxygen machine. So he's raspy, but I had a tape recorder and he's going through my documents
and he actually, Manson had come before him when he was a judge on some petty charge. And he said,
I dismissed him on that case, I remember because there was no evidence, but it was something like
breaking into a car or something. But he remembered very well, but then he was looking, he said,
I had no idea. And he said, there's something, this is chicken shit, this is all chicken shit.
And I'm like, what's chicken shit? He goes, well, you know, obviously people make mistakes
or bureaucratic system, but this is like almost on every other week, he's getting picked up,
taken in, booked and then released without charges. All of these are violations of his parole. He
should have been sent back 10 different times on this stuff you're showing me, but he also
should have been prosecuted on half of these things. And they just dropped the charge, dropped
the charge. He goes, somebody wanted him out. He was more valuable to people outside than inside.
Somebody worked to keep him out on the street. Like he was an informant? So what I said, you mean
like an informant. He goes, well, people confuse what an informant is. An informant doesn't just
provide information. Sometimes, and there's a history of it, they can provoke other criminals
to commit crimes. They can conspire with them and then walk away. And then the police know what's
going to happen right before it happens. They can be much more proactive. So he said, to me,
he goes, you got to find out who he was working for. I go, how am I going to find out? He said,
I don't know, you're the journalist. And I go, well, who do you think it was? He goes, well,
I'd start with the Los Angeles Sheriff's Office, then go to the LAPD. He goes, they're not going
to tell you, but that's who you should look at. And I go, is that it? And he goes, no, DEA, FBI,
he didn't say the CIA. But he said it could have been any number of agencies who he was,
either sharing information, was sharing something with, and they wanted it to keep going. But there's
no way this is an anomaly, like just a couple of mistakes. He goes, this is a pattern. There's no
way we would have missed this. And what was important about him was he, he was in law enforcement
from the prosecution side and then as a judge during that same period. So a lot of times,
if I show it to somebody now, they'd say, well, of course he should have been picked up. We have
computers, but he didn't. So he was important because he knew exactly how they shared information,
how it came in. And even Roger Smith's relationship with Manson, his parole officer for the first
year, while he became Charlie Manson, he came out of prison, he was panhandling playing guitar in
the Bay Area, gets hooked up with Roger and within a couple months has his following of women,
you know, the first six months, I think he had anywhere from four or five to 10 women
that were following him all over the Bay Area, going to the clinic, he would leave the women with
the doctors to get tested for VD and get some of them were pregnant and get pregnancy attention.
And he'd go in and meet with Roger for his parole hearings and everybody, you know, they described
it to me. I'm not the first one to report it. They said that the women would follow Manson,
they never stood beside him. They always had to be behind him. They wouldn't spoke unless he spoke
to them first. They would pick things up for him. They were like slaves. How did he become this guru
in a few months? How did he develop the skill to all of a sudden have these people do whatever he
said? And then within two years, do whatever he said, including go kill some strangers in the
house that you've never been to before except for text and do it, you know, with as much brutality
as imaginable and then come back and not even be remorseful about it. So that's the kind of thing
that, you know, the book shows what was basically withheld from the public and that's what Buliozi
did. You know, he wrote the best selling true crime book of all time and Helter Skelter. To this
day, you can probably go into any bookstore. Yeah, even if you Google like Charles Manson
documentary book, there's also a documentary called Helter Skelter. Well, no, there's two
scripted movies. Oh, okay. So the first one that was made in 70, the book came out in 74,
I think. And then the first TV movie, it was a two night movie, which they didn't do back then.
It was like a big event, I think was 76. And to that, at that point, it was a highest rated TV
movie in the history of television. It took one and two spot, I think number one or number one
was the second part. Number two was the first. Then he remade it in the early 2000s. He updated,
I mean, it was the exact same story, but it was right new actors, you know,
Bulyosi's narrative. Bulyosi's narrative again. Yeah. And then, you know, in my book,
they'll see it opens with our confrontation, my confrontation with Vincent in his kitchen,
where he's threatening me and trying to stop the book and writing to my publisher and calling me
at all hours of the night. Now, what obviously your your first meeting with Bulyosi was very
pleasant. Yeah. So the first time I went over there, and this was what was interesting too.
People listening who aren't familiar will remind you, Bulyosi was the prosecutor, right,
on Manson's trial. Bulyosi was an unknown prosecutor in 1969, and he was given a career
making case. You know, this was the highest profile murders in the history of California,
the craziest case. And not only did he know it was his ticket out of the DA's office, and he
wanted to run for president, and or be a famous author. Not only did he know it was his ticket
out, he got a book contract and hired an author to sit in the front row of the trial every day
for a year and a half, which today would get you disbarred. But back then they didn't have,
the Bar Association didn't have rules about it, because nobody did it until he did it.
People never knew he did it until I reported it in my book, because Kurt Gentry, his co-author,
told me, well, the cops told me, you know, who were at the courthouse every day. You know,
he had a damn author in there, he was playing for his reading audience, he didn't care about justice,
he was making it as sensational as possible, and Kurt Gentry told me that's the truth. He said,
I had a spot in the press thing that Vince reserved for me, and he would be pissed if I wasn't there
every single day. So, yeah, so he wrote the book and it became the best-selling book of all time,
is it still the best-selling book of all time? True crime, yes. I say that in my book and Little
Brown's like, we have to fact check that, and they said, you know what, we're not going to fact
check it, we know it's likely, but we can't get records from all the way back to 75, but we do
know that it sold millions and millions and millions of copies, I think it sold like 18 million or
something over, it's always reprinted. So it launched his career and he left the DA's office
right after and he wanted to run for, he did want to be president, so he was famous, he was on talk
shows, interviewed by everybody in the world, and he ran for the district attorney of Los Angeles,
and a few months before the race, he was the Democratic nominee and he would have won,
except a couple came out and went public, Herb and Rose Wiesel, this is the craziest story,
Herb Wiesel was a milkman in Pasadena in 1964 and the Buleosis were on his route,
Vince had his first child, Vince Buleosi Jr. in 65, I think it was, within a year of the
baby's birth, Vince decided that it wasn't his child, that it was the milkman's child, so he
started stalking the milkman and harassing him, and the milkman didn't know who was accusing him
of being the father of one of his customers' child, except that it was a man who had eyes
everywhere, what he didn't know was Vince was using investigators for the DA's office to trail him
and report on him, and he told the investigators that he was a witness in a murder case,
lied to his own office to get info. Because he was just paranoid about, did he actually believe
this guy was the real father or was he just... He did, and so much so that he picked up the kids
at school, and when the parents found that out, they had to, they said to the kids, you can't
ride the bus home anymore, he intercepted them on the way to the bus, picked them up, the daughter
told me this story, she caught in touch with me after the book came out. Scoot this way just a
little bit, you're... Scoot to your right just a little bit, yeah, you're just getting out of frame,
there you go. The daughter wrote me an email after, and I wrote about a lot of this, but what
I'm telling you now, I didn't, I knew that the parents thought he was gonna do something with
the kids, because he talked about when they got out of school, he would write these anonymous letters
to them, I have one or two of them on my Instagram page, because I post stuff about it,
and they're threatening letters saying, implying that he's gonna hurt their kids.
The daughter wrote me after, and she goes, you got everything in your book about what he did to
our family is right, but you didn't get a lot of other stuff, which I'll share with you, and I'm
like, what kind of stuff? And she goes, well, for instance, he picked me up at school, took me to
a toy store, I told me I could buy whatever I wanted, brought me home, left me on the sidewalk
with this pile of toys, I was five years old, my mother comes to the door and vents waves to her
and drives away, and she said my mother just burst into tears, because she had already been,
you know, they knew that there was this man who was a danger to their kids, and he was sending
them a message, I can win your kids over if I want. This is while he's a deputy DA, prior to
getting assigned to drive. This guy's a psychotic piece of shit. Yeah, and then what happened was
the milkman finally hired someone to tail Vince, because he would sit in front of their house
and watch them. So Vince knew he was being tailed and he was about to be exposed, but he didn't
think the milkman would go public, and the milkman wasn't going to go public, he just wanted him to
stop. So Vince sent his wife Gail to the door to insist to the other wife to talk her husband
into taking a blood test. So Gail goes to the door, Rose answers, and this is all in the
depositions that came out later, and she said my husband is mentally ill. That child is his child,
but he won't believe me, and the only way to get him to stop this is for you to get your husband
to take a blood test. And she goes, I absolutely won't do it, and we are going to sue you for
everything as soon as we find out who your husband is, because they still didn't know his name.
So I think it was that day or the next day, they did get Vince's plate number, they found out who
he was, they contacted the DA's office, no they contacted, first they found out that Vince had a
private lawyer, so they called him. That lawyer arranged for a meeting between the couple and
Vince and his wife, and Vince admitted everything. He said, I'm sorry, he goes, I thought he made
my wife pregnant, and I wanted to know whether this is my baby or not, what's wrong with that?
And they're like, you've been sending us threatening letters, you park outside our house,
you picked up all this stuff. You lied to your own office and told him it was murder,
searching them for murder? So the lawyer said, Vince, you can't do that anymore, and if the DA's
office didn't know about it, he said they're going to find out about it, so I'm going to have to tell
them, because it's better coming from us than you, you have to pay them a financial settlement and
promise you'll never follow them. So Vince offered them $200 in cash, and the wife said, we don't
want your money, we want your word that you will never bother us again. And he didn't.
A year later, the Tate-LaBiaka murders happened, the DA's office knows about this history of Vince,
and they give him the highest profile job in Los Angeles, and you'll see in the book,
I believe they needed somebody that they could control as a DA who would break the rules,
and Vince was compromised. Someone they had leverage on. So this story didn't become public
until he ran for district attorney of Los Angeles, after the Manson convictions,
after he left the DA's office, he runs for the DA, and the YZELs never wanted to go public with
this, but they thought, that's the most powerful law enforcement person in the city. He's insane,
look what he did to us, so they went to his opponent and said, we have a story to tell,
the opponent said, well, you tell the public that, and they said, absolutely. So they stood on a stage,
there was a press conference, and they told, what I just told you, actually I might have told you
more than they told, because they didn't, I don't think they knew about the DA's investigators until
they actually had the civil suit. So Vince responded with his own press conference, and he told the
media, here's what happened. That man was our milkman in 1964, and he stole $200 from our kitchen
table. When I was at work and my wife was upstairs, he delivered the milk, and he stole $200. I was
investigating him for the theft of $200. Now, the press didn't ask these questions, but he
basically called him a thief. The lawyer for the YZELs didn't say it then, but he told the police,
or the reporters later. Number one, that story can't be true, because Vince wouldn't have been
investigating him in 1966. Whatever the date was, the statute of limitation on home robbery or
whatever was two years. So he was saying he was investigating him for a $200 theft more than two
years after. He said, I called the Pasadena Police Department. Why didn't he ask them to
investigate it? They have no record of this theft being reported. So we're going to sue him for libel.
Then it went to court, and Vince paid them a fortune. The agreement was they could never go public.
He admitted to telling the lies. Then Vince lost his election, and then two years later,
he runs for attorney general of California, even bigger position. A woman comes to his
opponent in Virginia Carwell, and she said he shouldn't be the attorney general. He beat the
shit out of me. He held me captive, made me lie to the police. She had gotten pregnant with his
baby, and he gave her, I think, $300 to get an abortion, and called the doctor, and the doctor
said she never even showed it. I mean, the doctor's not supposed to say anything, but since it's
been hit, yeah. The doctor said she didn't come in for an abortion. He went to her house, and she
said, I'm Catholic. I'm boarding that baby. He beat the shit out of her for like four hours.
She went to the Santa Monica police department. I have the photographs, you know, black and blue
everywhere. She had a miscarriage. After he beat her? Yeah. Then that night, someone saw it on
that, one of the journalists at one of the papers saw it on the ticker or whatever. You know,
they see everything that comes in and out of the police station. Buleosi accused of assault and
kidnapping by a woman. The next day, it was in the LA Times at Los Angeles Herald that this
famous prosecutor had beaten up this woman. This is before he ran for attorney general.
He was writing the book at that point, Helper Skelter, and then went back to her house with his
secretary, held her captive for four or five hours until she agreed to go to the police and
say she filed a fake report. The secretary typed up a receipt, and the story they came up with
was that Virginia, who had recently gone through a divorce, had consulted with Vince about custody
payments. Her ex-husband wasn't paying for the five-year-old kid who was in the house when all
this stuff happened, and had never had a sexual relationship with him. He'd never been to her
house, and so she was going to go to the police station, and they called her up because they
wanted her to come back in for more questioning, and Vince was in the house with her, and so was
his secretary. She said, what, you want me to come? Okay, you're going to send a car?
She said, oh, no, I'm fine. I can go. They knew something was funny, so they sent the cops anyway,
and Vince was still there. He wouldn't let them in the house, and I interviewed the cop
who came to try to get her out of the house. He eventually did. Then what happened was the
police interviewed Vince, and he lied to them. He said, she's in love with me. She's stalking me,
and it's just over a $200 bill. Again with the $200? $300, yeah. She still told the story to the
police that she had made it all up because she was angry at him for charging her, because she
was terrified of him, and it wasn't until a couple of days, and the papers reported that she was
crazy, and she was charged with filing a false report. Vince was vindicated, and then a couple
of days later, her brother said, she told her brother, and he said, no, we're hiring a lawyer.
You can't let this go unaddressed. They quietly filed a lawsuit against him. He admitted to
everything, paid her, I think, $10,000 or something, and then a year later runs for
attorney general, and she did the same thing the Y Zells did. They violated their NDA, and she
violated hers, and she knew he'd call her a liar, but she knew he couldn't sue her because he'd
have to answer the questions. He lost the race again because of that, because everyone believed
her and not him. So he was a monster. That was the end of his political aspirations,
but he did write probably 15 best-selling books for the next 20 or 30 years until he died.
Now, when you guys got into that heated argument, like the last couple of exchanges before you
published the book, what parts of the story was he pushing back on the most? What was the
the biggest part was Terry Melcher, because Terry Melcher, he called one of his most important
witnesses, because if it weren't for Terry Melcher, Manson never would have known that this
house existed. So Terry Melcher had met Manson through Dennis Wilson, the Beach Boy drummer
at Dennis Wilson's house. The official story was he met him once, and then later agreed,
oh, and then Dennis drove Terry home with Manson in the back seat, and Manson saw the house and
saw where Terry lived, and the official version is Manson knew Terry didn't live there anymore,
but the Tate House, but he wanted to kill whoever lived there to send a message to Melcher,
and then to the world that Helter Skelter was happening, and he wanted it to look like the
Blacks, and this is all Vince made, most of this up. The Race War. The Race War, yeah. Explain that
for people who have heard of Manson. Well Manson did talk about a race war that he said was coming,
and he called it Helter Skelter, named after the Beatles song that had come out in the White
album, I think in the winter of January of 69 or something, and he did talk about it and
prophesize it, but he never, the only people that said he wanted to ignite it by committing these
murders before were three former Manson family members who bullio see, let's say, manhandled
into saying that. You know, there was a truth that he would talk about it, but not that the
murders happened for this. So Terry, you know, it was really difficult to convict Manson of
the tape murders because he wasn't in the house when they happened. It wasn't as hard to get him
for La Bianca because at least he was in the house, accessory, but Vince had to show that
Manson knew the house was there, knew what kind of people lived there, maybe not who they were,
and then ordered these people to go and kill. So Terry had to get up and testify about, yes,
Manson had seen my house, and then Terry said it was part of the official version. He went out to
the Spawn Ranch twice to audition Manson in June before the murders, and then he said he wasn't
talented, and I didn't tell him that. I just said he'd be better as a TV documentary, and then I
never saw him again. But what I found when I got access to Sheriff's Files because of a cop who
I think felt sorry for me, a retired cop called another retired cop at the barracks and said,
let this guy in the back door, because his job was to be the security guy at the archive. So I
was there the whole summer of I think 2000 going through the entire Manson file, and I found all
these smoking guns about the fact that Melcher, Rudy had already told me that Melcher had Manson's,
one of his followers, Dean Morehouse, living with him in the house, and the girls were up there,
and Manson was up there all the time. In the Tate House? In the Tate House with Terry Melcher
before Roman and Sharon moved in, and that Rudy said he told Melcher they had to leave because
they scared him. And I got cooperation with that from other people, but then what I found in the
files was that Terry went out to see the family right after the murders happened, and there's an
eyewitness account in the police report, a guy named Paul Watkins said that Terry fell to his
knees, and he was crying and begging forgiveness to Manson, and that Manson said they all had to
die, all the pigs had to die. Now the frustrating thing for me is the sheriff who took the report
was dead, so I couldn't ask him what that meant. These are notes, so I didn't have a tape recording,
and it's like shorthand. They all had to die, Terry falls to knees, crying, begging for forgiveness
from Charlie, first week of September 1969, so like a month after the murders. Paul Watkins,
who told the police this, who was one of the acolytes of Manson, was dead, so I couldn't ask him.
Paul Watkins was one of his followers? He was one of the followers. He's the one who told the
police's story. About Terry falling to his knees? Yeah, and then Terry denied that the story was
true, so I couldn't verify it from anybody else except that report. Then I found other eyewitness
reports of Melcher going all the way to Barker Ranch in Death Valley to have another meeting
with Manson, and this was like two weeks after the Spawn Ranch won, and it was a substantial
trip. It was like six hours to get out to where they were hidden in Death Valley at that point,
and there were two or three different family members who talked about Terry coming, going off
in the car with Manson, and the two or three family members who told the police that admitted it
wouldn't talk to me, and then Terry denied it, and the cop that took it was also dead, or I
couldn't find him. So I found out that Terry's relationship was significantly different than
he said under oath. He said he barely knew Manson. He met him once at Wilson's, and then twice at
Spawn Ranch, and it was all about music, you know, maybe producing him. So the fact that, as Stephen
Kaye, who was Buleosi's coprosecutor in the trial, said to me when I showed him these documents,
Stephen Kaye, who's Buleosi's coprosecutor, he was an assistant DA who helped Buleosi prosecute
questions people. First he said, you will never be able to convince me that Terry Melcher had
anything but a fleeting acquaintance with Manson, because I'd already told him what I found, and I
said, now I want to show you the documents. I had like three meetings with him in his office,
because he was still in the DA's office, and he said, you'll never convince me of this. He goes,
I knew Terry. He goes, I cross-examined him on the stand, not only at the main trial, but at the
Watson trial. Then I showed him the documents, and I described it in the book. He's shaking his
head, and I don't know what to think about this anymore. He said, I've been going to these parole
hearings for 30 years at that point. Every time a Manson family member wrote a parole hearing,
he had to go represent the state, and he had to go through the official story. It usually took two
hours. How the person who was on parole met the Manson family, what they did in the murders,
everything. He had this blueprint story that he told again, and he goes, now I don't know what to
think about this anymore. Clearly, this is Vince's handwriting. He had taken these interviews from
these people. This changes everything. He said, and more frighteningly, if Vince lied about this,
what else did he lie about? That's why, for instance, that revelation about Terry was really,
really important. That's why when I took the stuff that I took to Stephen, to Terry's house,
I'm like one of the two people he's ever talked to about these murders. He gave one interview in
the 70s. He released a solo album of himself singing. Then he agreed to talk to me in, I think,
2001. It was only because he knew that I had something on him. He had just moved down from
Carmel, where he had lived with his mom, Doris Day. Hadn't recorded music for years, but had
decided to do Kokomo with the Beach Boys, which I think is the worst Beach Boys song ever. It was
their best-selling song of all time. Then worked with Lou Adler again, who had produced all his
early stuff. He was getting back into the music business after being retired for 10 years. He
got a penthouse on Ocean Drive in Santa Monica. He says, don't go to my apartment. Just go right
up to the roof. I have to go to the doorman. The doorman said, yeah, he said, don't go to his
apartment. Just take the elevator to the roof. I got to the roof. It was, there's a pool. There's
an outdoor diner, but he was the only one up there. It was the fourth of July, three in the
afternoon. It was weird. There wasn't a single other person on this beautiful roof, but it wasn't.
I thought at first, am I going to be on a bare roof? He was there, and big bottle of wine in
front of him, about three in the afternoon, and he's already wasted. I knew his drug. I don't know
how to pronounce it, the Laladon or something like that. It's the drugs that he liked to take.
It's like Xanax, but it's called... Kalanapin? No, no, it begins with the DILU. I can never
pronounce it. So he's stoned and high, and he's got sunglasses on. He looked like Jim Morrison
from the photos I'd seen, because he used to be a blonde, young, good-looking guy.
He was bloated, and his hair was long, and he had these aviator glasses on, and he's slurring.
I sat down with him for an hour or two on tape, showed him the same documents I had shown Stephen.
Wouldn't even look at them. So I'm reading them to him. They go, that's
people just trying to be famous. They're always trying to... Terry, this is serious. I mean,
you purged yourself in a capital case, meaning you lied and gave testimony that resulted in
people getting the death penalty. All seven of them got death penalties, but the Supreme Court
overthrew the death penalties in the early 70s, saying it was unconstitutional for anybody,
so they suspended the death sentences, and that's the only reason none of them were killed by the
end of the 70s. They all got their sentences commuted to life in prison with possibility of
parole. But for you to purge yourself in a death penalty case, you can be susceptible to the same
penalty. So it's found out that you lied in a death penalty case. You can get the death penalty
if your testimony convicted and sent someone. I think if they got executed, so it's a serious
charge. And I go, it's not... And again, it's not like one little lie or fib, but everything you
said about Manson and how you knew him, where you met him, who else... You had them living with you
in that house. And they asked him, you know, he was on the stand for like three or four hours,
did you ever meet this person? No, no, no, no. I go, almost every word that came out of your
mouth was a lie. So finally he's like, who sent you? Why are you doing this? Who wants to fuck with
me? I go, I'm a journalist. He goes, listen, here's what I offer you. Nobody has... I've never
written my memoir. I've been asked so many times to write about my mother, my life producing the
mamas and the papas, the beach boys, my mother's records about her life with Sammy Davis. She was
part of the rap pack, Frank Sinatra, all those guys. I could tell you stories that would shock
the world. We would have a bestseller. You want to do it with me? I'm like, Terry, you know what
this sounds like? I said, number one, why would I trust any of your stories when you lied about
this? But number two, you're trying to buy me off. Right. And he said, yeah, it'd be a much more
since nobody's going to believe this bullshit. I'll give you my book. We'll do it. Let's do it. I
can tell you're good. I go, no, sorry. Then he said, okay. He goes, I have lawyers and he starts
naming these lawyers and I had heard of some of them who will crush you if you try to publish this.
I will crush you. And he said, in fact, right now I'm going to take your briefcase and throw it off
the roof. I'm like, Terry, you know I have copies at home. I wouldn't have been stupid. Yeah. So
that's, you know, there's a lot more of it in there. But that was, yeah, I mean, the same thing
with Vince. He was calling me and threatening me. And when I was at his house saying, we're quarters
off, we turn the recorders off, he goes, I will hurt you like you've never been hurt in your life.
And I said, what does that mean, Vince? He goes, that's, you interpret it whatever way you want,
but I will hurt you like you've never been hurt in your life. I go, is that mean you're going to
beat me up like Virginia Cardwell? You know, are you going to stalk me like the milkman?
You know, it's crazy. Austin, can you tell them to quiet down? Okay. So the reason,
you want another water? Yeah, I have a mind. Okay. Will you do a sparkling water?
Awesome. Will you grab a bottle of water from the fridge out there? Thanks, man.
Um, okay. So when I go off into the weeds, just go like this. No, no, no, you're good. I love it.
I love it. I love it. I'm just right now, I'm having trouble understanding how, okay, I understand
the evidence that you found throws off the official story and it throws off the helter
narrative. Um, the fact that Terry Melcher met with Manson in the weeks following the murders.
What? How is that significant? Right, right. Like, obviously it's significant because it's,
it's changes the whole story. It shows that their shit was covered up. Shit was false. But what is
it's suggest that, I mean, it opens the door to the possibility like, were these people killed
because of something Terry had done? Why would Terry be begging forgiveness? Thank you. Forgiveness
for what? Um, why did the most important thing is just that the prosecution withheld this.
For instance, when I showed this stuff to Paul Fitzgerald, who was probably the sanest of the
defense attorneys, he was Leslie's attorney. No, Patricia Cranwin goes. And as bullios,
he said in the book, the smartest and the best. We were having lunch at a dim sum place in Chinatown
and he starts pounding his hand on the table. He goes, this is amazing. He goes, I've been interviewed
a thousand times about this. It was probably like 2001 or two. He goes, this would have gotten the
case thrown out. This principal witness lied under oath and then scripted the lies. He goes,
everything at that trial, just like Stephen K said, now is questionable because he lied with
his own witness and he knew the witness was lying. He goes, he would have been arrested
for that disbarred automatically and he would have been charged. So, um, you know, other stuff I
found out, this isn't in the book, but that makes the whole health or skeleton thing fall apart,
is I found out that there was an attempt on the lives of the same four people, Sharon, Vojciak,
Abigail Folger and J. C. Bring. The night before, at J. C. Bring's house, he lived down the canyon
from Sharon lived at the top of the C. L. O. J. lived in a castle on Easton that was a famous,
they thought, haunted castle because this film director, Paul, I forgot what his name was,
was murdered there by probably his wife, who was a famous 1930s starlet. But the studio protected
it, made it look like a suicide. J. lived in this house, had wild parties there, had secret doors,
was into S&M, had drugs. Well, the night before they were all murdered, he had dinner for Sharon
and Vojciak and Abigail, Gibi and him. And while they were having, when they finished dinner,
he had installed cable TV. Now, when I first read this in a police report, that's how I found out
about it, because it's not in the popular literature, it was in the police files. I thought they didn't
have cable TV in 1969, but then I looked it up, talked to experts and they said, they started
introducing cable TV in the mid-60s. The public didn't have it. You had to have a fortune, but
you could subscribe and they had it, and only some very wealthy people had it. Jay had cable,
and they were going to watch a movie after dinner in his bedroom. And then all of a sudden, there
was, according to the police report, from an electrician who was, he had installed all of the
wiring for Jay's house. His father was Jay's lawyer. He was a law school student, Paul Greenwald,
and Paul went to the Sebring house three days after the murder, because his lawyer, who was
Jay's lawyer, said, go get a suit for Jay to be buried. It was probably two days after. And when
he was there, he told the police that the night before the murders, Jay had called him because
the cable had gone out. And he went to the back of the house when he went to get the suit two days
after, and the police were guarding the house and they interviewed him only because he came there.
And they said, what are you doing here? And he said, well, I think you should know this.
When I went to the back of the house, the lines had been cut. And I could tell by the gradation
that they were deliberately cut because they were all sliced in the same direction. There were
like four lines and two of them were cut. And he said it couldn't have happened. It couldn't have
been a gardening accident because it was nine o'clock at night. There wouldn't have been gardeners
there. It wasn't an animal that chewed through it. But it seems significant that the night before
those same four people died at the Tate House, somebody cut the wires at Jay's house. Now,
if you know the Tate murder scene, the first thing they did was Tex climbed the pole and cut the
phone wires, just the phone wires, not the lights to the house so nobody could call out.
So Paul Greenwald, I found him when I found this report. And he said, oh, yeah, I remember following
that. I mean, telling them that like it happened yesterday. Clearly, someone tried to kill them
the night before. And I asked him for more detail than was in the report. And he goes, well, what's
interesting is the lights were on in the house. They only lost cable. They didn't know what they
were doing. You know, they were trying to cut the, they thought it was a phone wire and it was a
cable. They'd never seen it before. But they, they cut, they hit another wire. And he said that
causes a surge of electricity. So every light in the house would have blazed and he had lots of
light. Yeah. Just for like a second. And then they couldn't watch cable. So Jay called, and this
is in the police report, Jay called Greenwald at nine o'clock, said, I have Sharon and Gaby and
Vori check over. We've lost cable. We don't know what happened. Can you come over and look at the
wires? And Greenwald said, I finally got this girl to go out with me, who I've been trying to get to
go out for three months. It's nine o'clock. I got to be at her house in like five minutes. Please.
And Jay said, I forget it. We'll go to the Daisy, which is what they did. They went to the club.
The very next night, Watson cuts the correct wire at the Tade House about, well, a couple hours
later, it was about 1130. They go in and slaughter those same four people and then Steve Perrin,
who happened to be in the back house visiting. So if, if this is all true, and it is, you know,
I have the contemporaneous report that the Greenwald gave in August 12th when he went to get the suit,
that means that the whole argument that Bulliozzi made that these people were strangers
to their killers, that they picked people they didn't know, just that they knew had to represent
Hollywood and glamour because Manson, new Terry used to live there. So that meant that whoever
there was now was likely in show business. It meant no, they were stalking and targeting specific
people. At least one of those four people, maybe two of those four people, maybe all four,
Bulliozzi kept all that out of the book. And again, the only reason I found it was because I got
access to, after I got into the sheriff's files, and I got an LAPD cop who had caught, he was a
sergeant who was in charge of the Tate murder investigation, and he had copied the entire
file. I heard about him through collectors. He was selling it for $200,000. And he was the only
one who had the whole file. And he wouldn't consider letting me look at it for free. I flew
out to Sun Valley, Idaho, and this is when Bruce Willis and Demi Moore were still married.
This cop who had retired lived in a mansion next door to Bruce and Demi at a beautiful
millionaire's mansion. He was a really corrupt cop. So I spent two days there, went to the house
twice. He had a great story. He had married a homicide detective, a woman. He and her left their
spouses in the middle of the night and ran off together and got married. And they were still
married all these years later. So I got drunk with them for two days. They were both alcoholics.
I'll do whatever I have to do. I'll shoot heroin if it's going to get me.
Man, you had a lot of fun escapades with your subjects.
So at the end of two days, he agreed to read from some of the stuff he had on these principle
witnesses. Long story short, that was like 2001, I think. It took me until 2008. They relocated
from Utah to Palm Springs, Palm Desert, but a beautiful house that used to belong to Russ Meyer,
this famous pornographer who made all these 60s pornography films. And they lived there then.
So I started visiting him there about once a year. And finally, I broke him down.
And he said, here's the deal. I want to write my own book. He said, if you organize all I've got,
he had like two or three boxes, alphabetize it, index it, put it in an organized way. He said,
you can copy whatever you want. So I spent a week there in his garage taking everything,
copying almost all of it, if not all of it, and then putting it in hanging files in these boxes
with labels and everything. Except every day at lunchtime, he'd come out, time to go lunchtime.
Oh, God. So they'd take me to this little steakhouse every day. And they didn't like it if I didn't
have a martini with them. And they didn't like it if I didn't have two martinis. So we get
rip-roared and drunk at lunch and then go back to the garage. And I try to keep working. And he
keeps drinking and just sitting there in a folding chair telling me stories. And Elsa, his wife would
stumble out and go, would you leave that fucking kid alone? He's got to work. And I go, I was staying
at a friend's house, but it was a week of that. And I got everything. And that's where I found
that report about the wires. Oh, my God. But that's why it takes 20 years. It took me
seven or eight years to get him to finally let me look at it. And that was probably
10 visits to him. One in Utah and then nine in Palm Springs until I won him over. He died a
couple years ago and then she died last year. And I know that the son, I shouldn't even be saying
this on this. I don't care. The son is a cop now. And he has the files. And
I've always been worried that he's going to sell them. I guess it doesn't matter now because I
took the best stuff, but there's another box of stuff there. I'm not going to say it because
I don't want to publicize. I'll tell you after the show. But it's really, really important
that he wouldn't let me look at then. And the son has it now.
Whoa. Yeah. This is just kind of to give you the overview of why an investigation like this
doesn't happen like it does on TV. Right. Yeah. Have you ever considered doing any sort of like
docu-series on it or anything like that? Has anyone approached you about that? Yeah. I mean,
especially since you've done the Joe Rogan thing that probably blew it out of the water.
Yeah, it sure did. But before Rogan, actually before the book came out, I told you that my
first publisher sued me and everything stopped as far as me being, and my agent said, he goes,
frankly, you're getting sued by the biggest publisher in the business, the most respected.
That's why we went with them. I might never be able to sell this book again. Even if we
resolve the suit and settle, he goes, you've got a black mark against you because you couldn't
deliver that book. I'm like, thanks, Lonnie. I just want you to know the truth. So I actually
reached out to, I don't know if you know who Errol Morris is. Errol Morris. Isn't that Hamilton
Morris' dad? I don't know much about his dad, but I've heard the name. Well, his dad is a lot
more famous than Hamilton, but Hamilton has got his following. I know Hamilton now. Errol made
his first movie that kind of broke him out was The Thin Blue Line about a wrongly convicted
killer in Texas that got the guy out of prison, and it kind of changed documentary filmmaking
back in the mid-80s. Just phenomenal technique, everything he did. So every movie since then
has been a big story. He won the Oscar in, I think, 2005 or 2006 for a movie called The Fog of War,
where he got the Secretary of State, Bob McNamara, who prolonged the Vietnam War by lying about it
under President Johnson, never admitted before that they knew we were going to lose the war,
that they had reduced the number of casualties. They basically lied to keep the war going.
Errol got McNamara on camera to admit about all these lies and break down and cry when he was
like 90 years old, and won him an Oscar for best documentary. So his last film was about Timothy
Leary and his girlfriend that came out on Showtime last year. So in 2015, I reached out to him because
when Penguin was still working with me, they thought he would be a good match for me as a
collaborator because he also wrote books. And I said, I'd love to work with Errol Morris because
I'm a huge film fan. So they sent him my proposal, and Errol said, I'm not going to write a book with
this guy. I want to make a movie about him. And they said, no, no, we got a book. We'll get back
to you when we're done the book. So it occurred to me when I was desperate and broke. And when my
agent said we might never be able to sell the book, I said, I'm going to go see if Errol wants to
make the movie now. And I had his email address. I'd never met him or spoke to him, but I had it on
the bunch of things from the agencies. So I just emailed him out of the blue and he called me that
day. Again, long story short, he and I worked together for a year. So he came out to my place in
Venice with a crew and shot for three days, I think. They wired my whole bungalow with cameras.
There were like 15 cameras on remote tracks. And then they went in an empty bungalow across the lot.
And they had like 10 computer guys with these massive screens controlling the cameras. Yeah,
they'd be tracking across my ceiling. And then it's just Errol and I in the bungalow. One other
woman who was pulling focus on one camera that you couldn't use remotely. And then like a crew of
20 or 30 people on the whole property. And then we went to a soundstage and they moved half of my
apartment to the soundstage, like my desk, my chair, all those books you saw in that picture,
which is a nightmare. You guys just we have to put them back exactly where they are. They promised,
but of course they didn't. Then they recreated my apartment on the soundstage in Hollywood.
And then they had a camera like 50, 60, 100 feet in the air swirling down like when I'm going through
my stuff. And then he has smoke and all his he does a lot of weird, beautiful stuff. So he sold
it to Netflix and it was going to be a series about me and the book. And it was going to be six
hours. And right after he sold up, but before I signed the contract with Netflix, he changed the
focus. And there was another guy who he decided he wanted to combine our stories. This became a
series called Wormwood. It was on Netflix about four years ago. And it's about a guy named Eric
Olson, whose father was murdered by the CIA in 1953, thrown off a building at the Statler Hilton in
New York City, because he was going to be a MK ultra whistleblower. And to this day, the government
only admits that it used him in an experiment, but that he committed suicide. But what Eric,
the son, who's 70 something now has spent his life trying to show that he was murdered,
got enough evidence together that Errol believes him and most people do. So Errol wanted to
combine, blend our stories of Errol, Eric chasing his and me chasing mine. And I said,
oh, that's not what I signed up for. And my book isn't written. If my book were written maybe,
but you know, right now, you're the author of this story, I'm not going to give it up to you
if I'm sharing it with a whole other story. No, you've dedicated way too much to this.
So I walked out on it. And I would have made significant money. And I was getting a victim
from my apartment, not for not paying it because they were demolishing it. And I was fighting
that it was the lowest time in my life. But you know, I walked away, he was furious. There was
nothing he can do because my contract gave me an out until I signed the deal with the first deal I
signed with him. And it was just to work with him and nobody else until he sold it. And when he
sold it, because he invested a quarter million dollars to shoot all this with his own money,
until he sold it, I would work with him. But then as soon as he sold it, it would be my last chance
to quit if I didn't like the direction it was going. And so I quit. And it was a tough decision.
And he hated me. And then he ended up just doing Eric's story, which is like, wait, that's what
I wanted. And it's called Wormwood. It was a big success. You can see it on Netflix. He used real
actors for the first time in the documentary. So he blended documentary with scripted.
So Amazon Studios option this, they got a hold of the proposal that Dan and I,
my original proposal was 220 pages. And we shrunk it down to about, I think, 30 when we decided to
take it out after the lawsuit was resolved in 2017. So we sold it to Little Brown. They published
it. But before we'd written it, they, somebody got a hold of the proposal, even though it was under
NDA, brought it to Amazon. And Amazon came to us with an offer to option it. So that meant that
for 18 months could develop it, even though there was no book, but just own it until the book came
out. And I didn't want to do that because they wouldn't say whether they were going to do a
limited series or feature film. I knew it was going to be scripted. I preferred documentary,
but I knew scripted was much more money. And I'm a lot of debt because my resolution with Penguin
was that. Right. The books out, fuck it, scripted, it gave me the money. But it would be a million
times better if it was an actual, a proper documentary. That's where this is going. And it
might be a happy ending. So what happened was my agent said, you can't get them to commit to one
or the other. You have to hope that when they get the book, they'll see it could only be a limited
series. And I said, how much are they going to give me? And he said that he goes, you know that
if they give you that, then you and Dan can write the book full time. You don't have, at that point,
I started driving Uber, which is horrible. Oh no. All you can do is the book and you need to do it
and get it done in two years or less. Right. So I took the money. They renewed the option when
the book came out and hired a screenwriter. He finished his feature length script, not limited
series, pulled his hair out. You know, he told me he goes, now I know why I took the 20 years.
Right. And I don't know how to, I don't know how to condense this at two hours, but that's what my
assignment is. Right. So he turned it into November to Amazon. And, you know, he did a good job,
but it just doesn't reflect the book. It just jumps across. So Amazon pulled the plug and
they didn't say it was because they didn't like his book. I don't know if this is true or not,
but they said it's because they're pulling away from movies with white middle-aged protagonists
that they want to do people of color and women protagonists that really was the whole me too
thing and all that. Wow. Yeah. I don't think that's true. I think they were trying to make him feel
good. I don't know, but whatever they, but they pulled the plug. Right. So I called Errol. I go,
I don't know if you're mad at me or not. You know, I hadn't spoken to him for five years,
but just so you know, it's available again, because I wasn't allowed to do a documentary
where they own the script. Right. So Errol and I are, oh, I'm not supposed to be talking about
this. I don't care. He wouldn't care. We're negotiating now to do, Netflix has already said
they'll do it. Oh, that's amazing. So we're going back to start. Fuck yes, dude. But I, you know,
I don't get my hopes up anymore. No, not with that industry, man. You can't. You can't. It's
just full of let downs. I used to be a part of that world. Really? Yeah. I've pitched many TV
projects and have my heart broken too many times, which has got me to the podcasting YouTube world.
Which you probably love. Yeah. That's amazing. It's so much fun. I love it. Yeah. No one to answer
too. Well, when we're off camera, it doesn't even have to be today. I want to ask you because I've
also been thinking obviously about doing something like this. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Well, thank you
so much for coming in everybody. The book is called Chaos. It's a beautiful book. It's a masterpiece.
Thank you. And I'll link it below. Great. Thanks. Yeah. I appreciate it, Tom. Hopefully we can do
this again once your documentary is out or your alleged possible possible possible possible
documentaries out. Yeah. Cool. Or the next book in 4020 or the next book. Yeah. I'm looking forward
to that as well. Not 20 years. I'm looking forward to that. Yeah. Well, cool. Thank you. Thank you,
Tom. Okay. I appreciate it. Great. Goodbye, world.
