Hello, world. Ralph Blumenthal was a reporter for the New York Times for 45 years where
he worked as an investigative journalist and crime reporter. He's also written seven books
based on investigative crime and reporting on cultural history. His latest book, The
Believer, Alien Encounters, Hard Science, and the Passion of John Mack, is the first
biography of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Harvard psychiatrist John E. Mack, who risked his
esteemed career in psychology to investigate the stupefying accounts of human abductions by
aliens. Nothing in Mack's four decades of psychiatry had prepared him for the other
worldly accounts of a cross-section of humanity, including young children who reported being
taken against their wills by alien beings. Based on Ralph's exclusive access to John
Mack's archives, journals, psychiatric notes, and interviews with his families and closest
associates, he reveals the life and work of a man who explored the deepest of scientific
conundrums and further leads us to the hidden dimensions and alternative realities that captivated
Mack until the end of his life. This is a good one, folks. I hope you enjoyed as much as I did.
Please welcome Ralph Blumenthal.
Thank you for doing this, Ralph. I really appreciate it. I just finished watching the UFO
documentary on Showtime, and you made a few appearances in there. I did. Really, really
great documentary. Thank you. Yeah. I wasn't responsible for it, but I liked the part where
they used me and I don't subscribe to all of it. I think there were some sketchy things
in there, but really, which is true of the whole UFO field. I mean, it's, you know, to
pick and choose, but I try to keep it on a, you know, a level, comporting with reality,
let's say. Which part specifically about the about the documentary?
Well, there were some references to, you know, U.S. government working with aliens in a secret
space. Things like that, I think, are kind of way off.
Right, right, right. Yeah. There is quite a bit of, quite a bit of varying theories about
what's going on when you sort of dive into that world. So briefly, why don't you, for
the people listening who aren't familiar with you, if you wouldn't mind give me sort of
a brief background on who you are and what your background is with your career and everything.
Well, I spent my whole career at the New York Times and I was very well grounded in this
reality, let's say. I covered stories from the Mafia, the World Trade Center bombings,
including the first one, the truck bombing, which was a kind of a precursor of 9-11, although
investigators never realized that till too late. And I covered political corruption and
politics and investigative pieces. So my background was not in UFO reporting at all.
And I got into the UFO story and John Mack through a series of circumstances I can go into.
But I really had very little interest in the field until, you know, very late in my career.
What originally made you want to become an investigative reporter?
Well, you know, every reporter who goes into the field feels that he or she can, you know,
right wrongs, you know, as they say, afflict the comfortable and comfort the afflicted.
I always felt I could, you know, make a difference by reporting. I think you can change the world
in different ways. One is by, you know, political activism. Another is by exposing the wrongs.
And I found early on in journalism that that was the best route for me, and I got a lot of
satisfaction from it. And you did a lot of overseas work as well, right? Like in Vietnam
and other places? Yeah, I covered the Vietnam War from 69 to 71. And the Cambodian War, which
was part of that. And I was overseas before that in West Germany. So I had some foreign experience.
Wow. How old were you at the time when you were doing that?
20s. Wow. Very, very young. What was that like? Well, in journalism, you know,
you get your best assignments when you're, when you know the least. Right.
When you're young and mobile, you don't have a family yet, you can move around quickly.
So that's when you get your best assignments later on. The more you learn, you are encumbered by,
you know, your, your family life and other commitments and you have a home and things
like that that you have to, you'd have to sell. So little by little, the world closes around,
around you. But so I had, you know, wonderful assignments early on in my career. I continued
to have very good assignments, but my foreign work was really early on. Now, are you still with the
New York Times or? No, I retired in 2009 after 45 years, but I still was able to contribute,
including my most recent stories on UFOs, which we can talk about that I did those after I had
left the staff, but continue to contribute. Okay. Okay. Now in 2000, correct me if I'm wrong, but
the first legitimate article to ever be released by the New York Times on UFOs was 2017. Is that
right? No, no, no. The Times did a lot of reporting on UFOs over the years. So I definitely wouldn't
call it the first legitimate article. And, you know, the Times has a long history
both covering this field and ignoring certain things in this field, both. But
if you go back into the archives, the Times was reporting on UFO incidents, you know, way back
to Kenneth Arnold and Roswell, of course, and, you know, all the things that happened in the
40s and the 50s, you know, the 60s throughout history. And so I would definitely not call my
article or our article because I collaborated with two fellow reporters the first. But it did open up
some new avenues, let's say. It was a groundbreaking article in the sense that
it, well, it exposed this unknown unit of the Pentagon, ATIP, the Advanced Aerospace Threat
Identification Program, which no one knew existed. And with the release of the three
Navy videos that came along, two and then three that came along with that, I guess it kind of
changed the tone or the paradigm to suggest that mainstream media was taking this field seriously.
Right. So the 2017 article for people who aren't familiar is the one where you talk or the videos
or the radar videos were released from the pilots who were operating the Super Hornet,
the Super Hornet fighter jets, and they captured the Tic Tac craft that was going at
thousands of miles per hour, which was estimated almost colliding with one of the Super Hornets
at one point. What was it about that article that made it so groundbreaking?
Well, first of all, we exposed the fact that the Pentagon had been tracking UFOs, even though the
government said it was out of the UFO business with Project Blue Book in 1970. So the government
obviously has not been straightforward with us throughout. It said that it closed the book,
Blue Book on UFOs 50 years ago, whereas this secret unit, ATIP, was operating in the Pentagon,
tracking UFOs and collecting information that started in 2007 under another name and continued,
well, today it continues to the present under another name. But so we revealed the fact that
the government was continued to be interested in UFOs. That was interesting. We revealed that
Lou Elizondo, the head of the program, was resigning in protest against the lack of support he was
getting within the Pentagon, and that was groundbreaking. And then to suggest that,
or to prove, to show in the videos that the Navy had actual physical evidence that these things
existed, was groundbreaking. I mean, for a long time, people were dismissing UFOs as mental
aberrations, fly specs on the windshield, marsh gas, the planted Venus, you name it.
But all the thousands of accounts by people throughout the years certainly gave the lie
to that, but the government never admitted it. So now the government was saying, yes,
we have a unit investigating UFOs, and here are Navy videos, they weren't the whole videos,
we only got parts of them. But what we got was very interesting.
How did the article, when you guys first began working on it, what were those conversations like?
Okay, this is how it came about. In October 2017, my colleague Leslie Kane, who was not at the New
York Times, but was a preeminent, or probably the preeminent UFO reporter, an investigative
reporter who had written an excellent book in 2010 called UFOs, The Generals and Pilots,
that go on the record, which was a very, very meticulous and well-grounded
account of how other governments, particularly in Europe and South America,
were researching the UFO phenomenon. Anyway, she and I were in touch because
she had been the companion of Bud Hopkins, who had gotten John Mack interested in UFOs,
and we'll go into that story down the line. But anyway, so Leslie and I had been in touch for
some years, and in October 2017, she told me she had just attended a meeting in Washington
with Lou Elizondo, who was quitting as head of this ATIP, that this organization existed,
ATIP, that we didn't know about, and that we could probably get these, she saw and we could
probably get these Navy videos of some of the encounters. So I realized this was big news.
We didn't know that this organization existed. Harry Reid, the then Senate majority leader,
had gotten the funding for this. We told that story, and so we took the story to the New York Times.
I still knew a lot of editors there. I had left, as I said, in 2009, but I still knew people there,
and it was an easy sell. The story about a secret Pentagon unit investigating UFOs,
and the director quits because he's not getting enough support. I mean, that's a no-brainer.
And I should say, Danny, that we had all this on the record. We had no anonymous sources.
We had the names of everybody we talked to. All the officials were speaking on the record.
We had the documentation. We had Lou Elizondo's resignation letter. We had an official comment
from the Pentagon, which another colleague we worked with, Helene Cooper, Pentagon correspondent,
had gotten from the Pentagon saying, yeah, this organization did exist. So we had this nailed
down. So it was not a hard sell to the New York Times, and they put it on the front page
on Sunday, December 17th. So the rest is history. Wow. Were these pilots at all discouraged from
talking about this kind of stuff for the first time? What was your feel from them?
I think they were wary. Now they're not, by the way, because of the reporting that has since come
out. But at the time, there was a little reluctance to speak because traditionally,
pilots who reported these encounters, both commercial pilots and military pilots,
were referred to the psychiatrist. They knew that it was a career killer to report these
incidents, which, by the way, were common. But it wasn't sanctioned, let's say,
certainly not encouraged to report these encounters. But as time went on, and we followed up with
some other stories, the Navy and Air Force a little bit later did encourage pilots to come
forward. And now they say they want the pilots to come forward to report these encounters because
they need them for the database. Now, for example, in the UFO docu-series on Showtime, Commander
David Fraver talks about how after they told them about these things, they wanted to go check out
and they come back after their flight, they go back downstairs in the ship,
and there were some people there taking all the footage away. So obviously, there's a lot
more footage than- Yeah, there was an incident which we were made aware of that
personnel on the ship told us that unidentified military people came on board afterwards and
confiscated the data records, okay? And as far as I know, that still remains unexplained who
those people were, why they took the database away, did they know what was on it, did they not
want it to go further? It's just not known. I mean, you know, I want to say, Danny, that in all
reporting at the New York Times and in my book on John Mack, I've been very meticulous in not
going beyond the information that I can verify. As you know, there's a lot of crazy stories out there
about UFOs and aliens and encounters and they're very interesting stories, but unless I can
confirm them to the extent that at least I know who's telling them what the circumstances are,
et cetera, I'm very wary of committing that to print. So I'm very cautious and I don't know what
happened in that incident when they confiscated the data. Obviously, the data still came out.
So we have the video, we have the radar tracks, so they didn't conceal the actual encounters. It
was just some record that somebody wanted to have, but more than that, we don't know.
Right. I mean, most of these conversations are just speculation, right, other than what you can
what you can get from somebody. Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't say most of speculation. I'd say that
there's a lot of speculation, but there's also a lot of factual information there and people
are coming forward. People on the ships, you know, radar operators and people, we've been in
touch with a number of them, other pilots who have spoken to us, you know, on the record.
And so there's a lot of information. Do you give any merit to the idea that these
crafts could be a part of some sort of secret defense program or secret military weapon program?
Well, that was, you know, an immediate thought and a possible explanation,
but that has been increasingly ruled out for the following reasons. First of all,
it was pretty much debunked in the latest UAP report. You know, the Pentagon changed its
terminology from UFO to UAP. UFO being unidentified flying object, which was a term that
was popularized in the late 40s along with flying saucers, which is totally out of use now,
to what the Pentagon now calls unidentified aerial phenomena, UAP. So in the UAP report that came
out in June, just this past June, they examined all the possibilities, what these objects could be,
and one of the thoughts was, well, maybe it's our own secret technology that, you know,
one hand of the Pentagon is trying to keep secret from the other hand, you know,
or it could be foreign technology, China, Russia, you know, another earthly adversary.
First of all, the U.S. explanation has really been ruled out conclusively, I would say, because
everyone we have talked to on the record, off the record says we do not, we, the U.S., do not possess
this kind of technology. Hypersonic speeds, ability to operate underwater. In some cases,
these things have been seen entering and emerging from the water, cloaking, you know, turning invisible,
all the things that go along with the, you know, the reporting of this phenomena,
these phenomena rules out the fact that it could be American technology, aside from the fact that
it's very, very, very unlikely. We would be operating our own secret technology in military
airspace where it could collide with one of our jets and cause a terrific scandal, among other things.
Same goes with foreign, you know, explanations. Nothing suggests, and everything to suggest
to the contrary that Russia, China, or any other country on earth has this kind of technology.
So the answer to your question, long, long, long roundabout is no.
Nobody seriously suggests that this is our own technology that there's, that they're seeing.
Do you, I mean, obviously everyone who has any sort of familiarity with this space is familiar
with the Bob Lazar story and his whole story about being invited to work at S4 and back engineer
all these crafts, which he describes almost to the tee to be what these tic-tac objects are doing.
Do you, what is your, what is your feeling or, or do you have any sort of opinions on his story
and idea on, on what he talks about? Do you give any credibility to that?
You know, Danny, I have not looked into the Bob Lazar story. I'm very familiar with it.
It's a sensational story to be sure. There's a lot of very provocative stories out there
told by people who have good credentials. But I, you know, I have to say I have not
checked that out myself. There have been a lot of stories that we looked into at the times about
retrieved, you know, craft that may have crashed and were retrieved that the government has possession
of. We got made a little headway into that story, last story in the times, suggesting that
or stating that congressional committees were briefed on some shown briefing slides of some
instances of retrieved crash materials. Okay. We didn't go beyond that. We didn't say, you know,
what had been determined from that, just that Senate committee staff were briefed
on crash retrievals. That in itself is rather sensational, I would say. But to go to the next
step and say that we have from these materials, if they exist, engineers and scientists have
reconstructed spacecraft, you know, reverse engineered them is a big leap. And to say that,
you'd really need the evidence. And I'm not aware of that evidence. So it may yet come out.
But so to answer your question again, I just don't have an opinion on Bob Lazar. It's certainly
provocative and worth, you know, looking into for sure. It just seems the media has been buzzing
around this topic ever since your ever since the 2017 article. Do you think that that article did
anything to change the stigma revolving the subject? I think it did. We keep hearing that,
that the article showed that the stigma is not permanent, that the times, you know,
faced up to the potential ridicule, there still is a giggle factor in this whole, you know, subject,
which people in Congress are afraid to, you know, subject themselves to.
But it showed that a serious newspaper can can deal with the subject in a, you know,
mature and well-sourced way and suffer no consequences. On the contrary,
we were, you know, lionized for, you know, this sort of groundbreaking story. So,
you know, I can't say, you know, we didn't suffer any consequences. It can be done
if it's properly sourced. And as I said, we always just stick to what we know. We don't
speculate on what we, by the way, we've never said that these UFOs are alien spaceships.
That is a conclusion that some people have drawn. And you might say it's the logical conclusion.
Once you rule out all the other possibilities, okay, as Sherlock Holmes said, once you rule out
all the impossibilities, what remains is the possible and the reality. But we never said that.
All we said was that, and I think this is a big, this is the big breakthrough,
that these things do physically exist, okay? They have been caught on radar and there's images of
them and FLIR, this thermal imaging technology from the gunship cameras. So, as I said, this dispenses
with the idea that these things are figments of the imagination, they're archetypes, you know,
they're, you know, natural phenomenon mischaracterized. No, they are physically real objects with
astounding, you know, aerodynamics that we cannot explain, but they physically exist.
So, I think that's the biggest breakthrough since 2017.
Did you have any sort of colleagues reach out to you after that were,
had their feathers ruffled, or did you get any sort of negative blowback about this from,
from other colleagues or people in your field?
No, I would say no. I mean, we have a very serious science section at the New York Times that,
you know, looks over the shoulders of anybody reporting on science and, you know, sort of
make sure that time standards are adhered to. But I got to tell you, I got absolutely no,
you know, feedback negative, particularly negative. I got a lot of positive feedback,
but no complaints from any member of the staff that, you know, we maligned the New York Times.
You know, on the contrary, people are very interested.
Okay, so when and how did you first become aware of John Mack?
Okay, so in 2004, I was still on the New York Times and I was the Southwest correspondent based
in Texas in Houston. And somehow I picked up a copy of a book called Passport to the Cosmos,
which is John Mack's second book. And I'll tell you about John Mack in a minute because
just keeping the chronology, I didn't know who John Mack really was when I picked up this book.
And I saw he was a Harvard psychiatrist who had been gotten interested in the subject of
alien abductions or the stories that people who consulted him told him about encounters,
they felt certain they had had with alien beings. So he got interested in that field
and he wrote two books. And as I said, this was the second book that I picked up.
And I was immediately, as a journalist, captivated by the idea of a Harvard psychiatrist,
and he was a very eminent psychiatrist indeed. I mean, he had won a Pulitzer Prize
for a biography of Lawrence of Arabia. He had founded clinics for
impoverished people, mental health clinics. He had worked on, he had protested against nuclear
weapons because as a physician, he was concerned about the fate of the planet, all these things.
So he was an interesting guy. And now he had written this book on alien abduction and the
stories people told him. So I thought as a journalist, he would make a good interview.
And I thought I would give him a call at Harvard and see if he, if I could interview him now.
I didn't realize, I was naive probably, that he, I certainly didn't know he was as well known as he
was. As I said, he'd won the Pulitzer Prize in 1976, or 77 Pulitzer Prize for a book written
earlier. And he'd been all over TV with his first book called Abduction. He'd been on Oprah. He'd
been everywhere, been in the New York Times, but I had missed it. So anyway, I thought, gee, I'll
write a story about this guy. And then I pick up the paper a few days later, and I see he's dead.
I mean, he was run down in London by a drunk driver. He was there for a conference on Lawrence
of Arabia, a T.E. Lawrence, 30 years after his book had come out. And he was looking the wrong
way down the street, which Americans tend to do in London. And he was dead. So I couldn't interview
him, obviously. But I did reach out to his family. And it was not a great time for them. Obviously,
my timing was poor. They were grieving. But I let them know that I was very interested in his
world story. And I kept in touch with the family, particularly his three sons. And
eventually, they granted me access to all his archives, his therapy sessions, which
taped, I mean, his own therapy sessions, because he, as a psychiatrist, he needed to be analyzed.
And he kept up with his own analysis over the years, and his private journals, and his unpublished
manuscripts, and his tapes of every lecture he ever gave. So I had access to a tremendous
volume of material, plus interviews with the people close to him. I mean, his wife, Sally,
was still alive. She died shortly after he was in cancer, colleagues, family members.
Anyway, so I had access to a tremendous amount of material. And that's what got me going on the
book. From everything that you drew from talking to his family and reading his work and watching
his interviews, what kind of guy was he? From what you could do? He was very charismatic. He was
mesmerizing. He was tall, very good looking, with a ruddy complexion, very tightly stretched skin.
He had a wonderful manner with people, which I guess is the mark of a good psychiatrist. He just
got people to trust him and to talk to him. He was brilliant. I mean, his writing is quite apart from,
you know, the subject matter, and what he was trying to convey, just his literary abilities,
his gifts as a communicator were extraordinary. He spoke beautifully in his lectures.
He was very intelligent. So he was a very commanding figure. Was he perfect? Absolutely not.
He had suffered a childhood trauma in that his mother died, his birth mother,
when he was eight and a half months old. She died of appendicitis. And that affected him
all his life. I mean, he was always searching for the missing woman in his life, the missing mother.
And so he had some affairs. He was searching for something he couldn't quite put his finger on.
He found some outlet in his search for the missing intelligence in the cosmos, perhaps.
He said that himself. So he had some girlfriends, and I interviewed them too, by the way.
And he was a little naive. He didn't understand how revolutionary his claims were in the rather
cloistered, you know, precincts of Harvard and got him into trouble at Harvard.
What he wasn't cautious enough in some of his assessments, et cetera, et cetera.
But all in all, a very compelling figure and very well liked with really many,
many friends and yet some enemies and people who thought he was a little too smug, a little too
smart and a little too sure of himself. But all in all, I found him a terrific subject and really
worthy of the first full length biography. Nobody had ever written about him like this before.
Now, was his first book, The Book on Child Psychology in Nightmares?
That was his first book, yes. He wrote a number of books, one about nightmares, which, by the way,
really registered him as an expert on nightmares. Because later on, people said once he took up
the alien abduction phenomenon, people said, well, you don't understand, John, these people are just
having nightmares. And he said, you know, in effect, he said, look, I wrote the book on nightmares.
First of all, not all these encounters were at night. Some of them were in broad daylight. People
were driving or one case on a snowmobile. People were encountering, having these experiences
at all times of the day or night, not just at night. So his interests were,
he ranged widely intellectually. It was only later in his life that he came across the abduction
thing. And like all of us who come across this subject, he was blown away. I mean, how is this
even possible that people are encountering alien beings? And the difference is, we'll
encounter this subject and say, that's interesting. Wow. But he decided he was going to make it his
career to investigate it. So he was very courageous. I think that's one of his chief attributes. He
didn't care what people were going to think. And he didn't care if he was risking his
his professional reputation. He just thought it was a damn good story. And he was going to try
to get to the bottom of it. Right. Now he spent all that time studying nightmares and child
psychology. Did he ever find any overlap in his studies of abduction or his interactions with
abductees? Did he find any overlaps with those people and with his current knowledge of child
psychology or, or, you know, like night tears with children? Okay, that's a very good question.
Well, first of all, I should say that
he basically concluded that the people who came to him with these stories,
many of them were, were troubled. Indeed, they were troubled, but they were troubled
as the effect of the experiences that they believed they had, they weren't
making up the experiences because they were troubled. And that's a big distinction.
So he said that the experiences that they had, in effect, caused their distress,
not that they were distressed and therefore they made up these experiences. So for example,
some people, some critics said later that, well, these people, some of them were
sexual abuse sufferers, women, let's say, who had trauma in their background and they therefore
concocted a story of, you know, being examined by alien beings in sort of sexually intrusive ways,
because some of these women recalled or seem to recall their pregnancies removed by,
by the aliens for reproductive purposes. There were a lot of these stories.
And he debunked that. He found absolutely no connection. He certainly no reason to think that
any woman who had a sexual trauma was covering it up or, or explaining it through these abduction
stories, no connection whatsoever. Again, these people that came to him with these stories were
normal people, normal in the sense that they had every, you know, troubling incident in their
background that everybody has, you know, neglectful parents, alcoholism, drug abuse,
you know, they, these people lived in the world and they, you know, they were like everybody else,
but nothing that they had experienced explained these stories. That's what Mack was trying to
establish that they didn't explain these experiences at all.
And to add on to that, there was, additionally, there was lots of young children, right?
Well, that was a big factor in the conclusion that he later adopted that these experiences
were somehow real, that there was no other way to explain them. Now, in what reality they occurred
or dimension Mack never could establish and it remains mysterious. But the reason he believed
that these things actually occurred somehow as, as impossible as it is to imagine
rested on various observations that he made. But one of the more important ones was that
little children, in some cases as young as two or three, were reporting these abduction
experiences, saying things like little man take me up in the sky, I fly in the sky.
And so these kids could not be accused of picking this up from books they had read or
movies they had seen, they were barely able to speak. So that Mack found that very compelling
that these children would not really have a motive or an ability to make up
really these astounding experiences. But he had many reasons for coming to his conclusions.
Another is that UFOs were cited by some of these people, many of these people,
around the time of their abduction experiences that was often identified with or close to
a UFO sighting. So they would remember later that they saw a UFO landing in their backyard
or nearby, and then they had this experience as abduction experiences. Sometimes there was
evidence that the foliage had actually been disturbed outside the house, the tree branches
were broken off, grass was disturbed. And again, as I said, these people came from all walks of
life. There was no pattern that explained this, not a pattern at all. That would say that, oh,
yeah, these stories are coming from people like this. There was no
pattern at all to profile to these people, they came from all walks of life, they were
professionals, they were blue collar people, men, women, old, young. One of the distinguishing
characteristics, by the way, was that abduction experiences seemed to run in the family that
often their parents and grandparents had reported experiences like these. And then the parents would
say that, oh, my children are now coming to me telling me that they've had these experiences.
So there seems to be a mac found that there was some correlation, some family
line running through these stories. Another thing that made a very powerful impression on him was that
on occasion, there were third parties who were witnesses to some of these encounters.
For example, he told of the story, he told the story of two girls who had had a sleepover.
And during the night, the mother of one of the girls at the house came down to check on them
and found them missing from their bed. So obviously she was terribly alarmed, she called the police,
they searched all over and couldn't find them. And the next morning, hours later,
the girls turned up back in their beds. And later they remembered seeing a spaceship land outside
their window and having had some kind of an abduction experience. Now, here's a case where
they reported this experience later, but the mother said, confirmed a part of it by saying
she found the girls missing. Now, that's really intriguing. In some cases,
people weren't physically missing. There was another story that came up
at a conference that Mack attended of a woman who fainted in her husband's arms. And while he was
holding her, she had the experience of being transported up into the sky by some kind of
an alien intelligence and flying around and seeing certain things and then coming back to her body
and her husband was holding her the whole time. So she wasn't absent for that experience. So it's
complicated. But anyway, for all the reasons I said, Mack believed that there was every reason
to credit the stories of these people as real to them, certainly, and no other way to explain
these stories in all the, you know, the accounts by skeptics and debunkers that have emerged since
then, nobody has come up with a good expert. It remains mysterious. So at least Mack said, look,
I can't explain it, but I can't credit any other explanation either. So that's where we are. And
if this is a spoiler alert to my book, I'm happy to admit it that I don't solve the mystery, but it
is a mystery. Right. Now, during this time, wasn't he around the point where he started to become
interested in this? I don't know. What was the catalyst or what was the point when when he first
became like, aha, I don't I need to look into this more was it one person that came to him?
I know this was around the same time that he started to experiment with
like certain holotropic breathing exercises and meditation and psychedelic drugs, right?
Yeah. Well, I traced the process in my book. It's interesting, because as I said,
early in his career, he was very well grounded on the earth. I mean, he
he protested nuclear weapons. He got active in Middle East and peace efforts because of his
knowledge of the Middle East and Lawrence of Arabia. He actually met with Yasser Arafat to,
you know, trying to help advance peace efforts. And then a series of things
happened that pushed him in a new direction. So one of them was
he went off to Esalen, which is this think tank on the Pacific, you know, where they
were experimenting in the sixties with with drugs and with alternate forms of consciousness.
And it was very cutting edge and, you know, very, very sixties. And
and and while there he met a psychiatrist from Czechoslovakia named Stanislav Graf,
who had pioneered a form of breathing that changed your that that able to move was able
to move people into into a new level of consciousness, like drugs, but without drugs.
And it was called holotropic breathing. It was rhythmic breathing to music.
And it had the effect of inducing kind of a almost like a trance that enabled people to
transcend their normal consciousness. OK, so John Mack tried this and
he found himself actually carried back to a childhood memory of being in the womb.
And this is his mother was the woman who died in six, eight and a half months after he was born
of appendicitis. But he he recalled or thought he recalled her struggles to give him life.
And it all came back to him, he said later.
And he also had a memory or he thought it was a memory of being a Russian peasant in the
16th or 17th century and watching his son being decapitated by a Mongol warrior.
Wherever that came from. So anyway, he came back from this holotropic breathing exercise,
and he was amazed that I mean, he was a psychiatrist. So he knew
the processes of the mind or thought he did. And here was some new frontier that he was,
you know, learning about where he could alter his consciousness and and sort of catapult himself
into into other other levels of consciousness and memories or realities, whatever.
So that that kind of set the stage. So then at one of these conferences with Stanislaw
Graf, he met a fellow psychiatrist. And her name was Blanche Avustee. And she told him she had a
patient who thought she had been abducted by alien beings. And she had these experiences that the
psychiatrist thought were a signpost of abduction. The woman didn't quite understand what these
experiences were. Anyway, she told John Mack about this, and he was pretty skeptical. He wasn't
there yet. And he said, you know, it sounded kind of crazy to him. And she said, by the way,
I have a friend in New York who's studying all this. His name is Bud Hopkins. He's an artist.
And he has a lot of people he's hypnotizing who have these experiences of abduction. Would you
like to meet him? And John Mack said, No, sounds crazy. But anyway, one of the strange things in
life, you know, the story is full of synchronicities with me included. So he's in New York in 1990,
visiting a friend of his, Bob Lifton, the famous psychiatrist who wrote about Nazi doctors.
And Hiroshima and Nagasaki, very eminent colleague. And John Mack is visiting
Bob Lifton in New York. And he suddenly remembers a Bud Hopkins is living nearby,
and I had an introduction to him. Should I call him? So this is very strange. He says to
Lifton and his wife, you know, I might just call Bud Hopkins because he's interested in this alien
abduction stuff I might call him. And by the way, Mack said, I know, Bob Lifton, that you know
Bud Hopkins from Cape Cod, because you guys both have houses there. Bob Lifton, I mean,
I mean, like many psychiatrists had to get away in Cape Cod, Wellfleet, where psychiatrists go in
the summer, which is why you can't get analyzed in August. And Bud Hopkins had a studio near
Wellfleet. So he said, I know, you know, there's Bud Hopkins, would you like to come with me?
And this is the good part. Lifton's wife, then BJ speaks up and says, no, because Bob has a choice
about getting involved in this and you don't. Whoa, now I heard this. I think I heard this
from Lifton. Anyway, this was an amazing story because here's the wife who sees this whole
thing already happening. She sees John Mack getting involved in abduction. Before John Mack
even saw it, she had this flash of insight. And she was going to save her husband from getting
involved in this. Turns out that Bob knew a lot about abduction, it turns out. But anyway,
Lifton had done some of his own research, but that came out later. Anyway, John Mack goes alone
to Bud Hopkins house. Hopkins is an artist. He's got this great studio townhouse in Chelsea on the
west side, and hung with his sculptures. Hopkins was a very good artist, by the way.
He had been in some of his work as a museum. He was a well-recognized artist, and he did these
flat sculptures, non-objective sculptures, very sort of brightly colored, but ominous forms he
called as guardians, wherever that came from. So Mack visits Hopkins, and Hopkins already got
tipped off of his friend, Blanche, that John Mack, Eminent psychiatrist, is interested in talking to
you. So Hopkins hands Mack a sheaf of letters that he got from the people he had talked to about
abduction. And I should say that Bud Hopkins had already written two books, at least two books,
on abduction. The first one, Missing Time, long before John Mack got interested in the field,
was about this very strange aspect of the abduction stories, which was that people who
remembered afterwards being abducted, lost track of time. And they arrived at their destination
much later than they expected, and they didn't know what happened in the intervening time. And
later, under hypnosis, let's say, they were able to recall things they forgot, or their memories
had been wiped clean, which seems to be another hallmark of this phenomenon that the alien beings,
if you believe their stories of the people, wipe out the memory of what happened to the people.
So Hopkins had written this book, and he'd heard from a lot of people afterwards.
So he had these letters, and he said to John, right here, you look at these letters,
you're the psychiatrist, you tell me. So Mack went away, read the letters, he actually was
off on a trip to Czechoslovakia, right after that. So he didn't get to it immediately, and I tell the
story in my book. But he got to the letters not long afterwards, and he was amazed, because these
people were talking about these incredible experiences that couldn't be true. And yet,
they were so detailed. So that's what started him off. He then collected his own circle of people,
but it wasn't hard to find through Bud Hopkins and others, men, women, cross-section of people who
reported these experiences, seeing a spacecraft, having encounters with these
beings, being abducted on the spacecraft, having medical experiments performed on them,
all kinds of things. So that's where it all started. And the stories he heard were just astounding.
And so that was 1990. And in less than two years, he was lecturing to Harvard
on the phenomenon, which was probably too soon. But he hit the ground running.
How many people throughout his career did he interview that claimed to be abductees?
In your mind, which ones are the most incredible? Well, he interviewed several hundred. I'll tell
you this, that John Mack's first book, Abduction, Human Encounters with Aliens, which came out in
1994, which got him into trouble at Harvard. And I can tell you that story. But that book
is really is a compendium of 13 case studies. Okay, 13 people
who had these stories of encounters with aliens. And they are fantastic. I mean, they are so amazing,
more complicated and more with more twists and turns than you could ever imagine. Very well
recounted by John Mack, just like a psychiatrist would, whose business is recounting case histories.
He talks about their childhood background, all the events in their lives that led up to this.
In other words, he dissects their stories. And then he tells their stories,
the stories that they told him with his insights. And it's really a totally remarkable book because
each of these stories is different. This is what actually was so convincing to him.
The stories are all different in myriad details. But they're basically consistent.
That they see a spacecraft somewhere, that they next remember seeing alien creatures of different
kinds. They are then on the ship subject to various procedures. And that they are then released.
Sometimes they have a scar afterwards of some procedure that healed quickly. They don't remember
having where the scar came from. Some people felt that they had implants put into their body
so they could be tracked later. So in other words, the stories were basically consistent
because they had a lot of common elements, but they were different in thousands of little details.
So it's not like they all agreed on, we all tell this one story. This is the story. It wasn't like
that. Some people had minimal or no contact with spaceships. They just encountered beings.
As I said, a lot of variation and details you would think to yourself, and John Mack certainly
thought, you couldn't make this stuff up. Besides which the people who told him these stories, and
this was another factor that influenced him into believing that on some level, they were telling
the truth. In recounting the stories, they went through all the trauma of the experience. They
wept, they cried, they screamed, they cursed, they thrashed about. And he said they couldn't be making
this up. I mean, people fabricating a story are not that good actors that they can
convey this level of fear and disgust and all the emotions they had anyway.
So these 13 cases in the book, each one is different. Each one is amazing.
I mean, if I had to think of some of the stories, I interviewed quite a number of
John Mack's people afterwards. The people in the book are given pseudonyms to protect their identity.
All the 13, I believe, none of them identified by their real names at their request. But some of
them came out afterwards, pretty quickly afterwards, because they appeared with John Mack under their
real names. So quite a number of them identified themselves afterwards as the person in the story.
And others I was able to identify and talk to them and they confirmed their identities.
I'm trying to think of, you know,
there was one guy, he's called Scott in the book, his real name is Randy. He ended up later
making a film documentary of an encounter of an incident at a school in Zimbabwe.
Southern Africa, where a ship, the children reported a ship landing and
aliens emerging from the ship and the children interacting with these two beings.
We'll tell you that story later. But anyway, so Randy Nickerson, who later made that documentary,
was one of the first people Mack interviewed, his stories told in the book. And he,
you know, remembered playing in the backyard and seeing these big ants, he called them.
And then they put something in his head and his brain and he passed out.
Kind of they had kind of a wand, which you hear in other stories. And,
you know, and many details, but this was in Zimbabwe. No. Okay. Okay. Okay. He made a
documentary later about an incident in Zimbabwe. We'll talk about that. But this is when he was
a child and when he was talking to John Mack, he was one of John Mack's first
subjects of patience. Nobody could ever figure out whether John Mack was talking to them as
patients because they weren't suffering from anything except their experiences. They weren't
like they didn't have a real trial. They didn't have a real reason to be a patient except for
these stories. So they didn't want to call them patients. So subjects suggested they were
research subjects for John Mack. Anyway, we could just call them people who came to John Mack,
but Randy was one of them. Okay. And Randy found a specific interest in the Zimbabwe. Well,
the reason I ask is because some of these experiences or some of these, you know, abduction
experiences that people talk to him about have more concrete evidence than others.
If it comes to physical scars or if it comes to actual eyewitnesses,
in your mind, which ones, which accounts are the most credible?
Okay. So here's a case that became very famous in its own right.
And that Bud Hopkins investigated and told John Mack about,
and it was actually a book by Bud Hopkins called Witness. And this is a story.
Two security guards, they call themselves police officers, but let's say security guards
were escorting a VIP in downtown Manhattan in November 89, I believe.
And this car suddenly came to a stop. And the security guards got out and they saw
a spacecraft approaching an 11-story building near the Brooklyn Bridge.
They saw a woman, a figure of a woman fly out of the window surrounded by three alien creatures,
all flying in the sky. They escorted her into the spaceship and it flew off
and plunged into the East River. Okay. So
I'm telling this story. It's very difficult to tell the story without all the background
or nuances, but this is a case that, as I say, became known as the Brooklyn Bridge abduction.
And John Mack spent a lot of time on it because he was so intrigued by it. It wasn't his case.
It was Bud Hopkins' case. Anyway, the woman later came forward herself and contacted Bud
Hopkins, which is really how the story started. And Bud Hopkins found some witnesses who said
they were stuck on the Brooklyn Bridge when all traffic came to a stop. The power went out.
They saw this woman flying out of the window into the spacecraft. And
anyway, and I tell the story in my book, really, I go over the story. And the thing is,
the story was told to Bud Hopkins by a woman, who said she was the target of the abduction.
And it was also told by these two security guards who said they witnessed it,
who were driving down in Lower Manhattan and whose call was stopped. And they sent Bud Hopkins a
bunch of messages and letters and tapes. But the bottom line is that Bud Hopkins was never able
to identify the two of them. He got their names, but he never could find them. And
because he never could find them. And this is the problem so often in these stories. And this is
why we've been so meticulous at The New York Times in sticking to things that we can confirm
with named sources. This is a case, perfect example, that without knowing who these two
witnesses were, or having them face to face, telling their stories, the story became impossible
to verify. The woman said, yeah, I was the one, I was abducted. And people said, or some people said,
yeah, they saw this woman come out of the window. But the two security guards who were the best
witness who came from the closest witnesses, shall we say to this, could never be identified.
And in fact, took some effort to remain unidentified. So the story basically collapsed.
It's intriguing, but it like so many of the abduction stories, there's something missing.
That is the whole mark of this phenomenon, Danny, is that none of them can produce the smoking gun
that would convert skeptics, scientists, and so on. That's not an accident. That is part
of the phenomenon. Somehow this, whatever this is, doesn't want to be found out or can't be found out.
There's a lot of intriguing signs pointing to these cases. And as I said, there's fragmentary
evidence, all of which convinced John Mack that there was something to this, you know, the affinity
with UFOs outside the window, the broken tree branches, the third party witnesses, the young
children, the emotion that the people had when they recounted all these things, the scars afterwards,
all these little bits of evidence pointed to something, to the reality of these events.
And yet there was something of course missing, which is the absolute confirmation that they
occurred in reality. There's no photographs, there's no video, there's no, and you know,
you say, well, why isn't there? Well, that's a good question. Why isn't there? There is video,
by the way, of UFOs, because they came out, we saw the Navy videos. There's definitely
a photographic and video evidence confirming the physical existence of these objects.
But that's all you can say. There's no connection to aliens or abduction or anything else.
We don't know, it doesn't exist. We don't have that. So all we can say is that, yeah, UFOs physically
exist. We don't know where they come from. We don't know what intelligence is behind the wheel.
As far as alien abduction, we know people have told stories. We have some fragmentary confirmation
in different pieces, but nothing like the Navy videos of UFOs. So that's the leap. And that's
why at The New York Times, we haven't reported on alien abduction. We've reported on UFOs.
Right. Out of all of the people that criticized John Mack, including, you know, I don't know if
you would call it criticism, but, you know, whatever he had to go through with Harvard,
you know, turning the screws on him for his research and what he was doing,
what were his biggest critics theories? Or like, his biggest critics, what did they say to sort of
dismiss what he was doing? Or what the people he was talking to were saying?
Good question.
I've heard about things like implanted memories in hypnosis. You know, it's possible to implant
false memories. I know that's part of it. But yeah, that's a very good question. Well, first of all,
what critics said, including Susan Clancy, who wrote a book about it, put a lot of stock in
sleep paralysis, that it's a very common ailment or phenomenon that people during the night feel
paralyzed and can have hallucinations of various malign creatures. And it's physiologically, you
know, there's something interrupting sleep patterns and, you know, the brain
operates differently and thinks that these events are real. So that was one theory.
Another theory is that the hypnotist was implanting these suggestions in the people.
Basically, and there was actually one interesting experiment that a skeptic did where he
collected a bunch of people and asked them to imagine an abduction experience.
Just imagine it in all its detail. And they did. And the imagined experiences
seemed, in some cases, rather like the actual experiences. In other words, they just made it
up and it turned out to be, you know, sounded like some of the other experiences. And I'll talk about
why these all fall short of a good explanation in a minute. But
let's see, what are some of the other experiments that people had suffered a trauma,
like a rape or attempted rape. And afterwards, they transferred this memory to an alien abduction
memory. But it was based on some real trauma that they had. And it was just put in a different
context, maybe to shield the accuser that the truth was too awful to believe, let's say,
a parent was abusing a child and that the child couldn't deal with that. So it made it into an
alien. So that was, you know, another attempt to explain these experiences. The problem is,
I have looked into these in great detail. And there were whole conferences that were held
with experts, I can tell you about one of those in a minute, where people actually
looked for other explanations. So first of all, the sleep paralysis explanation, which is very
common. And by the way, the so-called skeptics, the debunkers, a lot of them have not done their
homework. If you're going to get into this field, and you want to expose the charlatanism or whatever
you think is going on here, at least you've got to know the field well enough to know the claims
so that you can expose them. A lot of the skeptics have not done the homework, they have not read
the cases. They don't know enough about the actual phenomenon and the scope of it and the details
of it in order to debunk it properly, because I would guess they can't. So they'll choose one thing
and they'll write that. So for example, sleep paralysis. So as I said, yes, it is an actual
phenomenon where people experience helplessness, they can't move, they feel they're paralyzed,
they are often in the course of a terrible nightmare, etc. But some of these experiences,
a good number of them that John Mack investigated and others were not at night,
people driving their cars. So they weren't sleeping in their cars driving and having a nightmare.
Yeah, like the Travis Walton one, for example, is a great example of that.
Well, now that somebody has come forward now and that's been
challenged, but he is sticking to his story, that's an interesting case.
Is he being challenged now? Is this new?
Somebody said that they faked it and one of the people, I guess,
who was in one of the guys who was with him at the time, he disappeared,
said that we staged it. I don't know, it didn't make a lot of sense. Because again,
if somebody comes up with that claim, you have to then go back and see all the other things
that supported the story in the first place. But let me just continue with the idea of
the implanted memories. So that was one common theory was, yeah, that the hypnotists implant
these memories in the people by leading them. Well, first of all, not all these stories emerged
during hypnosis. John Mack used hypnosis and modified relaxation techniques
to draw out memories that were hidden or concealed. Because as I said, one
hallmark of this phenomenon is that people's memories have been either wiped or clouded
by whatever happened to them. So one way to get at that, and that's really the key to the
Betty and Bonnie Hill abduction case, it's the first big abduction case in New Hampshire in 19,
it happened in 1961, it only became public four years later anyway. So
psychiatrists have concluded, researchers have concluded, the only way to get at these memories
is through hypnosis. So, and by extension, critics were saying, yeah, the hypnotists then
implants these memories that are then taken as the account of something real that happened. Well,
first of all, a lot of these experiences were described without regard to hypnosis,
people had enough memory of what happened to recall or think they could recall at least the
outlines of it. So they weren't implanted by the hit, there were no hypnotists in various stages of
this. And once you read through the case studies, as in the 13 cases that John Mack wrote about
an abduction, you could you would have a great difficulty in imagining that a hypnotist could
provide this level of detail to these 13 very different stories. I mean, what kind of an
imagination would you need to have to implant these stories in somebody? I ask you read these 13
case studies and say, oh, yeah, the psychiatrist knew all these details and implanted it in the
person and then the person sort of regurgitated it back, not possible remotely. Wherever these
stories came from, you cannot imagine that they came from somebody who was implanting them in these
people, because they are so bizarre, and so one of a kind, and so unimaginable, unimaginable,
that you could not in fairness conclude that they were given to the person to then feedback. Okay.
Well, real real quick, I want to interrupt you for a second. The interesting thing to me about
the sleep paralysis part of it is that by and large, most of the sleep paralysis stories are
people being feeling paralyzed and dealing with some sort of terrifying being that want that has
mal intent, right, like something that's choking them to death or trying to kill them. But in them,
I don't know if it's all of them, but at least all of the abduction stories I've heard, the beings
that they're, that they're having this interaction with do not have this mal intent. They're simply
just doing, you know, taking samples or trying to communicate something to them.
That's a very good point. That's a very good point that there is a difference. One of the books I
talk about early on in my book, The Believer, is a book called The Terror that comes in the night
by a psychiatrist who, a psychologist who investigated what they call the old hagg syndrome,
particularly in Newfoundland. There were a lot of people who had stories of being paralyzed during
the night feeling a malign presence, a stinking, horrible, you know, evil, evil presence climb
up on their bed and strangle them. And it was so vivid and so clear. And many, many people had this
and told the author, David Hoffman, I believe. And he investigated that and he, the author,
had it happen to him. He himself had experienced this as a student. He remembered the exact same
thing. He was in his room. He was drifted off to sleep, his college room. He felt the door open.
He thought it was one of his roommates calling him to dinner. Next thing he knew, this stinking,
horrible thing climbed on his bed and was choking him. And he was paralyzed. He couldn't turn on the
light. And then it somehow had left and he turned on the light and he ran outside to the dorm
counselor or somebody who was the landlord. He said, did you just see somebody running here?
I know. So anyway, he himself had experienced this. But as you say, that's a rather different
experience. These beings, whatever they are in the abduction stories, were not strangling people.
They were imparting information. They were seeking DNA, perhaps. One of the things we didn't talk
about yet, but it's very much a part of the John Mack story, is that a lot of people told John Mack
that the beings communicated with them telepathically because that was another thing. You mean they
spoke English? No, they didn't speak English. I got the messages in my brain. I just heard the words,
and they were telling me that the planet is in danger. And humans have to get their act together
and stop polluting the planet. And in some cases, the message is this is what happened to us,
the aliens on our planet. And that's why we are able to warn you. Anyway,
but it's a very different experience from the strangulation stories of the
terror that comes in the night, the old Higgs syndrome or so. So what are we to draw from this?
Well, first of all, there's a whole kind of anomalous experiences that seem to operate in
a world that we don't recognize. Another reality that penetrates our world, as John Mack said,
somehow, in ways we can't explain. We have a clear idea of reality. We think we do. Reality
is what you can see, smell, taste and touch. Knock on the table, feel it. But what about all these
other things that may be out there, other dimensions that were a young species as human
beings? We don't understand. Our science is young, a few thousand years old. We don't understand
everything. So maybe there's other dimensions, aspects to the universe that we don't understand.
So, and this really came up in the Harvard investigation. When Harvard cracked down on
John Mack and said, you're very bad, you're making us look bad in effect. And they said,
we have to investigate your methodology. Are you really proceeding scientifically? And John Mack
said, well, what is that? I mean, what is it? Scientists, there's no rules. You follow the
scientific method, but all the great breakthroughs in science came in unconventional ways that
unexpectedly. Yeah, why is that? That so many institutes, so many of the academic types in
places like Harvard are so quick to dismiss these types of topics. Like I've had this conversation
with Avi Loeb, the Harvard astrophysicist who discovered the Muah Muah, what he thinks was
from another intelligent civilization. And some of his astrophysicist colleagues at Harvard would
say to him, they hope to God they never witness anything like this or never come across any sort
of extraterrestrial thing in their entire career. And it's just like, it seems like such an
interesting thing why these people are so easy to dismiss. Well, listen, first of all, as I say in my
book, Harvard is no stranger to unconventional science. William James, the father of psychology,
who taught at Harvard 100 years before Mac, investigated seances and levitation and all that.
There was a lot of unconventional research going on at Harvard. There was and there is
what turned Harvard off, I think was Mac was, well, first of all, he'd written the best seller.
And that didn't endear him to his call. He'd written the best, won the Pulitzer Prize on Lawrence
of Arabia. Yeah, there was jealousy there. He was very, he was very sure of himself. I think he
turned some people off in the way he was so sure of himself. I think he talked to, he announced his
research at Harvard before it was really well advanced. He had heard about the phenomenon from
Bud Hopkins. He had collected his circle of experiencers, which is what he called them,
rather than abductees, because it's less a judgmental term. And he had begun his research.
He learned about it from Bud Hopkins in January 1990. In December 91, he held a grand rounds,
a lecture at Harvard, so less than two years later, where he introduced some of the experiencers.
On stage, he had a tape of a session where a woman was screaming that her pregnancy was removed.
He outlined everything he had found out. So again, he hadn't given it enough time.
He didn't realize the opposition that was going to build at Harvard, because it was very unconventional
research. He didn't lay the groundwork for that. He didn't peer publish. It wasn't entirely his
fault. He tried, but his articles were rejected because they were too complicated. One publisher
in the Journal of Psychology wanted more information and shorter. He wrote a hundred page paper on
what he had found before his first book. He brought up his findings, a hundred pages. He sent
us a journal, said, we can't run this. It's much too long. But by the way, could you add some more
detail? So they had him and he said, I can't add more detail and I need all the space. Forget it.
So he took it away. And the New England Journal of Medicine wasn't interested.
They wouldn't even open up his envelope. So look, it was a difficult subject to address,
period. And it probably needed a book. An article wouldn't do it. It needed a book. So anyway,
we were talking about Harvard. And so you ask Abby Loeb why Harvard has been so antagonistic.
I'm going to be on with him in the next couple of days on another program. And I'm going to ask him
what his experience at Harvard has been like. Because in Max's case, they gave him time to
I guess you could say gave him gave him enough rope. And then they try to hang him with it.
But they cracked down on him in 1994, about the time his book was published. So
he had given that big lecture to Harvard in December 91. So in December 91. So
two, three, four, so, you know, three years, two years later, they were on his case.
But, you know, it's an interesting story about the Harvard investigation, because as
Mack himself wrote in an unpublished manuscript, it was a clash of worldviews. He was trying to
explain, look, I came across this mystery. I don't know what the answer is to it.
But it doesn't respond to the usual scientific, the ability to get to the bottom of it. I mean,
we don't have any scientific proof of it, but we can't contradict it either. We can't figure out
what's going on here. And Harvard's answer basically was, well, if you can't prove it
scientifically, you can't, it's not there. And he was saying, well, there's something there,
but I can't explain exactly, you can't explain it. So it's not there. So that that basically was
the clash at Harvard. There were two different worldviews. One is the scientific materialism
of the Harvard committee, led by a critic of John Mack, we had clashed with once before,
Arnold Relman, very eminent position. And Mack, who was saying, well, I can't explain it, but
this is what the people are telling me. And it's good evidence. It's good compelling evidence,
but it's anecdotal in most cases, almost every case. There's fragmentary bits of evidence that
seem to back it up, but not conclusively. So I don't know, on and on. And the committee kept
saying, well, if you can't prove it, it's not there. So anyway, that was the clash at Harvard.
But in the end, Mack was exonerated. He had two wonderful lawyers that exposed Harvard's
weak arguments, I would say. And he would basically, he was reinstated. He was never,
he was never uninstated. He was allowed to continue his research. No sanctions. They just said,
please be a little more, be less enthusiastic, they said to him. And he said, okay, you're right.
I was a little too enthusiastic. I'll be less enthusiastic. Because he acknowledged it. He was,
that was one of the hallmarks of his nature was to be, he didn't hold back. What he thought
you could see in his writings, he was not devious. Even in his, even in his love affairs,
a few of, you know, outside his marriage, he didn't, you know, sneak around his wife.
She knew what was going on. He was just attracted to other women searching for this
missing thing in his life. And he remained devoted to her. They had a good relationship,
you know, difficult, but good at the end of his life when he died. But he was not a sneaky guy.
What he was thinking, you could see in his writings and his speeches, etc.
So, and that had a downside too. He wasn't very careful in how he structured his approach. And
he might have gotten further at Harvard if he'd been, I don't know, a little,
you know, a little less enthusiastic, a little more cautious. But in a way, that was his nature.
Right. Well, it's fascinating, Ralph. I really appreciate your time. I know we're at a time now,
but I thank you so much for doing this and sharing your story with me and let the people
listening and or watching where they can find more of your work if they're interested and buy your
book. Okay. So my book is called The Believer, Alien Encounters, Hard Science and the Passion of
John Mack. It's available everywhere. Amazon Independent Bookstores, Barnes & Noble. It's
available as an e-book. It's available as an audio book. And as I said, independent bookstores,
if they don't have it in stock, we'll get it for you. I'd love to support independent bookstores
because they've been very good to me and they're great. All the information is on my website,
RalphBloomenthal, B-L-U-M-E-N-T-H-A-L.com, RalphBloomenthal.com, and has a bio,
might work at the New York Times, et cetera. So that's how they can find out.
Awesome. Thank you so much, Ralph. One more sort of personal, greedy question. I've always wanted
to ask someone like you who's had the amount of experience you have being in publishing and
investigative journalism, especially working with a company like the New York Times for decades,
what is the best strategy for coming up with headlines? Because I do so many of these talks
and they're all published on the internet, and I can never figure out the right formula for a
headline. Wow. That's a good question. Well, you know what? When I teach journalism,
I tell my students that poetry is a wonderful exercise among other things. It's enjoyable,
of course, in its own right, in compressing language. With a headline, you've got to compress
the story and make every word count. And poetry more than prose. Obviously, every word has to count
multiple times in terms of impact and power. And in prose, you have a lot of leeway. You can throw
in extra words. You can't do that in a headline. You can't do that in poetry. So you have to get
at the essence of it. And it's almost like a zen thing. You've got to think, what is the core
point that I'm trying to convey here? And don't try to tell the whole story in a headline because
that's the formula for disaster. You get much too complicated. You have to zero in on the one point
that is the essence of it. So it's almost like you have to wipe away, wipe out everything you
know about a subject and think about the one thing that comes to mind when you first hear about it.
What is the question in everybody's mind? Or what's the one word or one phrase that will make that
come alive? But what you're asking really is the hardest thing. How do you come up with a good
idea? How do you... How do you sell it, right? Because you spend so much time in this thing.
You could just make something fall flat without the right headline. Absolutely right. Absolutely
right. And again, you still have to remain faithful to the truth. You can't take liberties and say,
sex. And then my real story is about UFOs. No, it's about UFOs. You can't play games with a reader
or a viewer because they notice it right away that you're not... You are playing games. So it's
tricky. And sometimes it helps to do it in a group. So you bounce headlines off each other and say,
what about this one? And someone else will have an idea. But it's difficult. I find that... I mean,
I do that all the time when I work with journalism students. I come up with headlines for their
newspapers. And as I say, it's almost like you have to not think about what you know and try to
think about it fresh, like how would somebody come to this who doesn't know anything about the
subject? What is the one thing that they want to know? Or what's the one thing that will come to
mind when you bring up this subject? I'm doing a talk at my college at Baruch College next week
on UFOs. And I'm calling it, Can You Believe It? UFO reporting, the recent UFO stories.
That just seemed to encapsulate. And you can read that two different ways. Can you believe it? Or
can you believe it? And that just sort of came to me. As I said, experience helps.
Also, be a reader of the tabloids because the tabloids have the greatest headlines.
They really do. Yeah. I mean, Headless Body and Topless Bar.
Wow. I haven't seen that one yet. It was the New York Post headline. Very famous.
Headless Body and Topless Bar. Really? Wow. So that was a brilliant one.
So anyway, but that comes with experience. And it's trial and error. And sometimes you think you
have it. And sometimes, you know, you think you have it and then you say, oh, that was in bad taste
or that didn't do it. The important thing is not to err on the side of making a terrible mistake
because if you have an unintended double entendre where you malign somebody or introduce a taboo
subject or something, then you really hurt yourself. So you always have to remain within the bounds of
good taste, you know, and that kind of thing. But in other words, don't take a shortcut just to be
clever if it's going to subject you to criticism. So try to err on the side. You know, even if it's
a little dull, try to err on the side of caution. Right. And don't piss off anyone that was involved.
Yeah. Don't, you know, cross the line. Put it that way. Right. All right. Well, that's very
helpful. Very helpful information, Ralph. I very much appreciate your time. You're very kind. And
I'll hopefully we'll, we'll be in touch, be able to do this again in the future.
Okay. It was great being on with you, Danny. Thank you.
