We are officially back with the Riddler of Real Estate and the Messiah of Mortgage Fraud,
Matthew B. Cox.
Matthew's been doing the rounds, he's been doing the podcast rounds, he's been hitting
all the major media outlets, all the podcasts, gurus, you just got back from Miami, you did
the Vlad TV interview, how'd it go?
I mean it wasn't great, it wasn't great because I thought it's not as casual as this and he
asked specific questions so you tend to jump and every time he would say something he would
jump three or four like stories that I thought, well if we're going chronologically those
are kind of interesting stories, people are always shocked by those stories, so I'm like
do I say something, do I interrupt him, do I tell him, do I tell him hey look?
Yeah, get it a little closer.
Yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
It's good.
Because they always complain and say we're louder than you two.
They don't like hearing nothing, they like hearing you.
Oh Jesus.
But I think we just have a little better microphone etiquette.
I can't, this is my mom.
Just answer it then.
Oh yeah, let's put her on.
She's live.
Put her on.
I really, this is, I can't, this is, hold on.
Matt Cox's mom.
Hold on.
Mom, I'm actually, I'm actually on TV right now.
Can, okay.
Yes, you can see me, I can see you.
Is Celine there?
No.
Okay.
Celine, can you go to YouTube to the Concrete channel on YouTube?
The Concrete?
Okay, I'm actually doing a podcast right now.
Can I call you back?
What's your number?
I can text it.
You can go to Concrete with a K on YouTube and she, right, and she can watch me.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Bye.
Bye mom.
I love you.
Mwah.
You want to type in?
See you later.
Her number and I can send her a link.
Yeah.
So you don't see it on the air?
Yeah.
Does she have an iPhone?
I think she does, though.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
What the hell is going on?
I don't know.
I think she does have an iPhone.
Shane, how many milligrams are those gummies you're about to eat?
I'm fifty deep right now.
Goddamn son.
I'm going to throw a couple more in the mix and see how it goes.
How many milligrams is that total right there?
These are 10.
I don't know if she's going to...
30 a piece.
Figure it out.
Oh shit, well, I ate four earlier, so that's actually about 20.
So your mom's gonna watch the live stream she's gonna try I mean she's 90 so she yeah
I talked to her already. I talked to her once today. She and some she'll call me sometimes twice a day
Really, we face nice that you kept your relationship with your mom through all this
She didn't disown you for going to prison. No, she came to see me every two weeks, bro
I love you really good. You're really good. You're mama's boy, huh?
I mean, what you're listen, that's listen, that's the only
That's the only woman that's the only one that's gonna stick with you
You get 26 years. You think your girl's hanging out your girl's gone
You know unless you've got million the only guys I know that their wife hangs out for 10 or 15 years
They're waiting for a lot of money to come back out
They're worth like 30 million dollars and they keep them the house and they've got kids and they so then they they stick around
They don't see you and everything but if she's got to go get a regular job and
Has two kids to raise. Yeah, she's out of there. She's done. She's like listen. I'll answer your calls, but we're we're done. Yeah
John LeBron's got a good
Relationship with his mom as well. Yeah, I see her. I've seen her come. It's crazy
So a friend of mine not really a friend. He's like an acquaintance past a friend friend from the past
Just got locked up in Coleman the same exact place you were
He calls me and I get the call you getting a call from a federal prison
and it's him and he happens to be in the same exact block as
Frank on Midea the Emperor of the world the Emperor listen, you know what I want to do. Oh
I'm gonna tell you look. I'm turning Frank story. Go ahead. Go ahead finish your shit. That was my shit
I was just whatever I was setting you up. Go ahead. No, I was gonna say I'm finishing
So the story which is on my website inside true crime
Okay, so the story in
It's insanity I'm gonna turn it into a book like I'm gonna blow it out
Maybe 70 70,000 words turn into a book
I've got a couple of Amadeo's people to two people that we used to work for him
And they're gonna give me a couple other people so I'm gonna do interviews with them and blow it out to a whole book
Here's what I'm thinking wouldn't it be cool to do like t-shirts that say like
Frank Amadeo for Emperor 24
2024 whenever he gets it whenever his out date is, you know
And you could do all kinds of stuff and send him one. Yeah, and you can even do shirts with his quotes on it
Oh people will die people will die
Anthrax your entire village, you know, I mean he's got he's got a great quote
You could do that and then you could do a podcast on the yeah
Yeah, the book of the story and sell the teacher. I've been talking to him via email
He's has the email system at Coleman and he's been talking about he wants to call in and do a call-in podcast
That would be great. The only thing that sucks. You got to break it in into 10 minute phone calls
15 minutes, you can do 10 or you can talk for 15 minutes or did they limit it? I think it's now 10
So crazy that all those people in the prison. It's like four people
Well, that I've been shipped out of the prison because they got sick. They caught the virus
Hmm. What about we're about you two bucks. Yes. I'm just in two bucks. Who's that? Did they ask a question?
Nope. Did you have an assistant?
Don't you're assistant who Austin?
Oh, no, what's her name? Oh, Katie. Okay. I can't bring Katie around when you're here, man. So anyway
Anyway, you purve out too hard on her. Yeah
Referring to her as a hot chick is exactly
So good things doesn't hurt what I've said about it
If you have her called the prison you got to arrange you can arrange to have Amadeo put on a telephone and get a phone
Call with them for an hour or two
But you're gonna have to make the calls and fill out the paperwork and remember we talked about yeah
I do but then I have to actually act like a legit media company. Yeah, you do have what it's it's true
You are a legit news company. What was it? It has to be like a news station. Yeah, but it don't matter
Bubba used to do that shit and get into the courtroom. Yeah, you just have like a nice PDF with your logo on it
Yeah, you're good to go. He'd send in like you're the perfect person to help us do it
Yeah, you've never been on a live stream on the have you? Oh, yeah, you was on both Jake
Yeah, everyone is my second podcast. I'm Luke James king of the clips helping out here. I'm grateful to be here
We have a whole YouTube channel
Dedicated to clickbait run by Luke. Yeah
You know that you like we're like you're all crazy
No, I don't like he's never seen make this
So now we have we have two serious. We have two people with fine arts degrees at the table
Stinky stink line 69 run in the switching board is also a proud owner of a fine arts degree
See, there's three people give it away
How much I got to pay to get one depends where you go, I can give you one for about 50 bucks sold
Oh
Stop doing those those fucking photos are horrible. It gets clicks though
So what's wrong with just a normal picture? I mean, it's not that interesting
Can't you do just like the people who are on YouTube?
They need something extra to push them over the line because it really takes a lot to make that click
I mean, it's not even that bad a clickbait compared to the other shit that's on YouTube
It's our clickbaits pretty mild. Did you see value tame it? His are always very very
conservative very tame. Are they really? Yes, there's he doesn't do anything insane. Well, maybe Vlad will give you a real nice one. Yeah
That's probably gonna
Crucify me. Oh, yeah, Vlad will give you lads are always very thumbnail
He's his are good. His are normal, too
There's just like the guy that he never has anybody making some weird face or catching them going, you know
See, I'm afraid to make a face right now
Oh my gosh, I mean, it's I think my favorite one was the one about the Ponzi schemes where there's like 10 heads coming out of you
That one. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I saw that one
I want to all see one and first the Russian doll for a split second
I get pissed off and then I think wait a minute calm down. It's Danny. Nobody watches this channel
No viewers nobody watches this shit. Nobody cares
People want to learn how to make money people want somebody to follow people want somebody to tell them what to do
It's like Trian saying you have to call this guy and you can talk to him about real estate
You should not take real estate advice from me. Yeah, I mean, that's not it's just you know
I could tell you how to do it legally
But you know what the problem is people want to buy real estate with no money down and can you do it?
Sure, there are ways to do it and there are legal ways, but you have to build no money down
Sure, how do you buy real estate with no money down? You borrow the money
You borrow the money from a hard money guy that gives you all of the money, but you have to build a relationship with that guy
How do you do that? How do I build a relationship if I don't know any hard money lenders?
You well you first you start flipping houses you go find a house for
$50,000 it's going to once it's renovated with $25,000
It's going to be worth a hundred and twenty five thousand dollars and they're out there and you find a hard money guy
That will lend you 65% of its aftermarket value or you know once it's repaired and then you basically have
You have your repair money and you have your down or and you have the purchase price
Okay, then he gives you draws as you fix up the house
But you need to buy the house first no no you can fix it up, right? No, he'll buy the house for you
Oh, so he'll buy the house look for simple numbers. Let's say you're buying the house for $40,000
Dude, this is just I'm leaving out a bunch of you're buying the house you found a house for $40,000
I just said for simple you want me to jump to a million. No, just let's do a hundred grand
That's what I'm saying. So so let's we like big numbers around here Matt costs 40,000
So let's say for the sake of argument
80 and you find a rundown piece of the garbage house for $80,000 and can you find a piece of garbage house for $80,000?
Sure you can
So for 80 grand and it needs a bunch of work right it needs about $50,000 worth of work
So you bought it for you go in you go to a hard money guy you say listen found this house for $80,000
But once it's renovated the appraised value in the area says it'll be worth
200,000 and he says you know what you're right if you put 50,000 into this it will be worth 200,000
Okay, so I'm gonna give you a 65% loan to value. That's a hot on a two based on a
$200,000 aftermarket value and appraised value of 200,000. That's a hundred and thirty thousand dollars
You're buying the house for 80. Mm-hmm. So I'm gonna give you the 80 to buy the house
He buys the house. He's got a mortgage on it. There's 50,000 left over right? He's giving you one for 130
So there's 50 grand left over. He says I'm gonna hold the $50,000
Until you start fixing up once you start fixing it up
I'll give you draws so you go in you fix up you put
$20,000 worth of work into the property and you don't have any money
You have to convince the guy to put on a roof the drywall and say look as soon as you're done. I will
Cut you a check
For that money once that's done. You call the hard money lender. He comes out. He says you're right
You got a new roof. You did the drywall work. You did some paint. I'm gonna release $20,000
He gives you $20,000 you pay those guys back then you go and you do the next phase of the repairs until you've done $50,000
With the repairs he continues to give you draws now. He's released all the hundred and thirty thousand dollars, right?
Mm-hmm the fort or the hundred and eighty to buy the house plus the fifty. Yeah, and the repairs you owe him
130 you sell the house for 200,000 supposedly you make 70,000 it never really works like that
There's always something that goes wrong and you do have to make the payments on the hundred and thirty thousand alone
While this is happening
But it is possible
Now you're saying the other thing is how do I get a drywall guy to do the drywall and a roofer to do it
Yeah, you gotta follow all the trades people. Okay, well great
You're gonna have you may have to put some money into it or you have a credit card or you get somebody to lend you the
Money to do that, you know, so there are ways to do it
But what let what hard money guy is gonna lend money to a guy who's never done it before
So you kind of have to partner up with something you have to do a few of them
You have to slowly ease your way into it before you know it once you've done four or five with this hard money lender
He'll get to a point where we'll start lending you 80,000 or 80 percent
90 percent a hundred percent because he believes in you, right?
He knows you've always paid you've always done what you said you were gonna do so that it's possible
But it's highly unlikely and it's certainly gonna take time and the problem is most people want a quick fix
They want to make money right? Well, how do I make money right away? Well, you don't right, you know
It just doesn't work like that if it was fucking easy if there was something some guru that could tell you then
Kids these days they want instant gratification, right, right? I wanted instant gratification
Yeah, I just had to I and I got instant gratification and then eventually it caught up with me and then I had to go to prison
You know so a lot of people want you as their guru. Yeah, and I've had that happen a lot and I always think what are you doing?
You can read why would you what do you I just got out of prison?
You don't want to take advice. I mean not that I don't have good advice or anything
But I'm not in a position to give you I have guys who say I want to come work for you. I can barely pay my bills
Yeah, it's like what you said talking Mike
Oh a lot of people like don't look at your past
But they see like the way that you're able to talk and the way that you're able to carry yourself
And they don't look at like the criminal part of what you did
They see like how you were able to get to that point of it being criminal and then they're like, oh
Well, if he could do it, I could do it and if I just listen to him then I could be like him, but I'll be smarter about it
I won't get caught. Yeah, that's what I thought
Yeah, it's it's it's just yeah, it's an illusion. That's the problem with gurus
It's it's an illusion. It's like, you know what I said never meet your heroes, you know, cuz yeah
You're always it's always a letdown it is false idols. What is it? What is that word is a term for that? I think false idols
Yeah
What is dogma?
What is dogma false profit false profit? That's what the word is false profit. Yeah, believe in yourself
That's all you got to do. Well work hard and be patient. Yeah, listen to Gary. Listen to Gary V
Persistence
Bro, you gotta listen to Gary V persistence. Yeah, he's great. He's great
Oh, of course, his whole thing is work hard keep your bills low and be patient. Mm-hmm. That's good advice
Yeah, I mean stop but people want to hear that. No because it's not a quick fix and doesn't put it in my pocket
I don't want to hear that and I know it's true. I mean, but that's what I got to do. Yeah, so she's have to do it just sucks
Well, we're done. He said this
You should just practice what you preach and you should just start doing your own podcasts on your own YouTube channel
I'm you won't you're waiting for the big payday from Netflix, which is never gonna come
I'm not even doing that anymore. Oh, what I'm doing is exactly what we talked
Remember I told you this is that it's a problem is that you you go in and you've got 11,000 subscribers
Which is what I have on my on my channel inside true crime, which everybody should subscribe
So where's the camera? Are they all on they're all on Matt you should talk to this one though
Okay, so inside true crime. It's my YouTube channel. You need to subscribe so like right now. I've got 11,000
Subscribers right so the issue is this let's say I do a podcast a
3045 minute podcast
I break up all my stories into three or four sets three or four sections
Yeah parts whatever and I do little 30 minutes and explain the story and I get a co-host so we talk we do the whole thing and
I explain I pull out the documents and I go through it
You know, it's kind of interesting great people like it they get the whole story and they see how it all unraveled perfect
The problem is you do that. Well, I have no subscribers
So I get barely any views 11,000 subscribers blow all my content and I don't really get any hits
And so you're basically doing it for free, you know that yeah, let's say what's your video gets?
50,000 hits in in a month. It's a few hundred dollars. It's not people like oh, you're gonna make like five grand
Are you out of your fucking mind? You're gonna make no money
I it's not even worth doing it to make a couple hundred dollars
What you have to do is you have to get a bulk of subscribers
You need to 300,000 subscribers even if you had 150 you have a shot at 150 to 200,000 subscribers, right?
So how do you get 150 to 200,000 subscribers you put out content?
Do I blow all of my decent content then what do I do then I'm doing these videos where these guys are going?
Hey, look, here's what a commissary looks looks like let me tell you about commissary every one of these prison shows
Does it oh ten ways to get thrown in the shoe?
Here's what here's what the shoes like. Here's how you can get stabbed in print. I mean fuck. Are you serious?
I can't do that, bro. I'm not gonna do those are ridiculous, you know
Here's a let we're gonna go over
Good hygiene in prison. Are you serious? Who's watching this? So what happens is they blow all their content and
Then they start doing these ridiculous shows and then they get the point where they start interviewing other criminals
Well granted, I've got a bunch of content, but I don't want to blow that content
Upfront what I want to do is get a bunch of he's putting the carriage before the horse. No, I'm not because here's what I want to do
I want to do the reviews. I want to review movies. So I'll review movies
I'll review do 30 episodes put out every five days. I can do one time
I'll do one up for 20 or 30 minutes on uh on
Catch me if you can I I'd love that movie
I got other movies that I've seen that like um, what's that movie? It's called. Uh, I think it's called con man
It's horrible. Did you ever see con air? No
Well, yeah, I'm there with Nick cage
No, it's about cons not con air is the only movie with con that I know. Yeah, there's a movie called con man
I believe you it's horrible. Is it better than con air?
There's not much is better. You seen con air. I'm here with Nick cage
No, it's I've seen the movie. It's horrible. It's an amazing movie first of all. I first of all
I'd love to see that do that movie. I've been on con air. It looks nothing like that Steve Buscemi in con air. Yeah
Really creepy. Oh, yeah, it's been too long. Yeah, last time I watched it was John Malkovich. Come on. Yeah
But come on con air is not like that. I've been on con air. It's not Danny Trejo. Isn't he?
It's an all-star list con airs to be the best great actors Nick fucking cage come on out
It's not that's not what's happened. That's not real. It's not there's no yeah, it's a movie. Of course. It's not real
No, that could be true. I could actually see it happening based on a movie
Well war dogs was a movie is they stole your memoir. Yes, they did
You know, you could do you could watch all those con movies and then you break down the con and talk about where they went wrong
And what they could have done that's a genius idea. Oh my god Matt. You should take his advice
So I mean did you guys get together and decide to try and
So we broke down a bunch of fucking great comments on the internet on Instagram on our Twitter and the YouTube channel
We got people to ask
Real-estate questions. No, just any or just any questions. We got to ask questions for you Matt Cox and the fans have spoken and
The people have spoken these are genuine and now they're gonna now they're gonna get the straight from the horse's mouth
What they need to do with their lives and Shane is gonna read the questions
Are you want just general comments or hopefully the gummies kick in more and more
Thank you stew ball appreciate you
Read his name first read the guys his name on whatever social media platform I'm reading all these
Yeah, just start with one. We'll start with one and then we'll expand on it and then we'll move on to the next one
all right
This is Scott's thoughts
T.H.O.T.
Five months ago. Yes, five months ago thoughts T.H.O.T.S
This man literally mastered the same system put in place to financially trap us. He's the Robin Hood of fine arts
You know the question is I mean hey Danny printed these out
Hey, half of them are questions half of them are just comments. All right. Here's a here's a question next question
When did he start grifting again? Was it 10? 15 years? He was doing it if he was 37 when he got caught
15 years living like a king for 26 years in prison and now he's an author with movie royalties coming in
Morality not withstanding sounds okay to me freedom is whatever you have the privilege to do with it poverty is a prison without bars
Can someone else please? This guy's a poet. That guy's that's poetic. I mean
Everything he said was wrong
How so can you expand on that? It's out. I don't even know what the question was but the first one is when did he start grifting again?
What does that mean? What again first he says again, so again
Let's go with let's just go great
Listen, did you see the movie grifters great movie?
Never seen with John Cousette. No. Wow
That sounds like you guys are probably better if Nick Cage was in it. Yeah
He can't come next time
so
Here's a we're not answering that. No, we gotta answer. He's gotta answer. Let him answer
Okay, so what I'm saying is bit the first time I ever committed a crime. Mm-hmm was was the one of the first mortgage
I ever did
Debbie Boyd
First mortgage. I ever did I cut that's like white it out of a 30-day late
So I wasn't there was no
Grifting or anything. There was no short cons. There was no build-up to it was a I was in desperate straits and
I committed fraud and then I continued to commit mortgage fraud now those types of that type of fraud ends up lending itself to
Credit card fraud identity theft
There's all these other frauds that start to take place right bank fraud that sort of thing because you start to really figure out
What under how underwriting works and what they're looking for and what debt to income is and how they verify things
So suddenly other frauds develop as a result of that
So there's lots of other fraud that isn't directly related to mortgage fraud. Yeah, but
So I mean I did that and then I eventually got caught and I went to prison. I got 26 years
I did 13 years and it wasn't 15 years. It was 10 years and
It was not worth it
It sucked and now I'm writing stories. Are you an author with royalties coming in like they say?
I am but not big-time royalties. I mean I might make
15-16 hundred bucks one month. I mean, I just got out of prison. I just started releasing books
If you would have won that lawsuit over war dogs, you'd be getting a little bit more. I will we settled
Oh, you settled. Okay. Yeah, we settled and I get royalties from some of the other books that I've had that I printed
What are published while I was in prison and I get royalties? Well, I get options
from
When they re-option some of the film rights, which was the one that was in Rolling Stone magazine jet
Dukes of Oxy I get every time they option it I get a check for that
But you know, it's not like it's massive money. I'm working on it man. I just got out of prison
I haven't been out of prison a year. I haven't been out of custody a year. No, I'm not rolling dough. Did you see my car?
Yeah
It's embarrassing
At least you got one. Don't you? No, I crashed mine a couple months ago
Total dead bad boy doing don't sleep on the highway
Anyway, next question you're behind the wheel
Next question
Matt, can you give us all an update on how things are standing with some of your stories being contracted for movies or series?
If you can say anything about it yet
Who's who asked that question?
Eves Min Chang Wow
Thinking he's Asian
Possible you can't tell yeah, it's definitely possible. He's got sunglasses on in the picture just a name. It could be anything
You know, it's funny
I'm actually trying to put together a story right now about these an Asian gang in the late 90s
That we're robbing
Computer chip manufacturing plants where all over the United States really I mean, they're going in they're getting orders
From supposedly from from China. Hmm. So Chinese manufacturers are coming in and saying look
We need these chips and they're giving them like this this manufacturer
Has, you know, whatever a hundred thousand of these chips. We need them. There's no security
So they this Chinese gang would go in there
Eight guys would go in they zip tie everybody all the guards and everything
Load up all the chips in a van and then take off and go sell them for two million dollars
I mean literally it's like pulling up into a vacant
Parking lot and some Chinese official comes and gives them a thing gives them two million dollars in a briefcase
And they hand them over the chips and they leave. I mean, it's that kind of
It's amazing. How did you find out about these guys?
Um, a buddy that I was in prison with did some of the legal work for some of the guys and there was like like
There's like 40 of them all over the country. They got arrested. They they they robbed like 10 or 15 different manufacturers
There ends up being a murder. Of course, yeah, listen, it was so bad
I want to say that it was Clinton or I want to say it was Clinton that basically gave like a
presidential order that said all
all manufacturing plants
Have to have armed security because it was so bad
There were so many chips playing it's getting robbed today. I'm working on that story right now
I'd love to put that together. That'd be super cool, but back to what's his name's store question
Oh, I forgot the question. Oh, I don't even mention the question was how are my things progressing? Okay
So I have like 15 to 6 I think I have like
17 of them on my website, I think but a couple of them have already been like one of them's the war dogs one one of
Them's oxy rush, which was the which was that connected to that option
So those are already kind of done. I've got two right now. I have
Two of the stories are getting I'm being represented by gosh who's it?
Supposed to be signing a contract with
Zero gravity productions and they're gonna represent me and is it 50 cent is interested in the story of
of
Jamar towns, which is the guy it's called cash logistics. It's on the website actually I just
It's one of the it's on the on the YouTube channel
It's called cash logistics, and it's about a guy that gets a job at a at a
Cash-moving company, you know like like Brinks. Yeah, he gets a job there. He sets up an inside job
They rob it for like three or four million dollars. He hasn't he gets himself robbed
Yeah, you know you remember anything. Are you telling me this story? Oh, it's a great story. So anyway, anyway, so I don't know how to read
You can't even read so that's the I there was a woman a producer
named Anne and I talked to her and she went they looked over the website and
She pitched it to 50 cents
Manager and he's gonna pitch it to 50 cent and they're talking about option possibly optioning it
So zero gravity is gonna represent me on that and the other one is Amadeo's story
they're interested in and
Representing me on optioning Amadeo's story. That's a great story. Fuck an amazing
Fucking amazing story. So that one's good. Well, what about he said the thing?
So, I mean, I'm some of them turning into I'm doing stuff with I apparently we got to move faster than I saw my fault
The fact is some of the stories are being I thought I mean, there's 17 of them
They're all and they're all we don't have to go into depth about them. Okay. Well, this is a rapid fire
I wanted to answer. No, we want to make it last a little bit longer. That's fine. Yeah, don't don't don't rush
We got a lot of questions. Can't rush fine. Let me just drop 10 bucks. You said there who did it? Who did it?
Where's this money going to me rice Bayans Rick?
It was gonna be food. He said
He said nothing open for him to take us out. No, he said he was ordering crab legs
What are you serious? That was an idea. We were gonna do that for God. I didn't eat because of that. I haven't eaten
I mean, what's today?
Actually, I'll order right now. I'll order something because somebody send this man some crab legs. Keep going. I'm gonna order fucking
Shout out to Bryce Bayans. Thanks for the the 10 bucks. Appreciate you. This guy's little crabby bills
I'll send you I'll send you the equipment to do your own podcast. No, you should do your own podcast
I want to encourage you to do your own fucking podcast. You don't need me, okay?
You don't need me to hold your hand Matt. He's gonna want to take some of the money
I have no problem with that. All you need to get to that point. All you need is a microphone
Here do your half-ass fucking podcast what doesn't matter start somewhere does matter start at the top Matt
Wherever it doesn't matter what Matt wants to come out professional
You know, he doesn't want any low budget
Start creating content
He's got good quality content. I didn't start creating right. Listen. Let's listen. There's nothing wrong with that
There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with wanting a professional thing. Listen. Here's the difference
The difference is some people go in the bank and they slip on the note
They walk out with thirty five hundred dollars if I'm going in the bank
He's getting a hundred everybody we're going in the fucking vault
We're going in and if we when we walk out if shit goes wrong, we'll deal with it. That's what I love that
I'm not gonna take your credit card and run it up for a thousand dollars
I'm taking the whole fucking house, and I'm walking away with half a million. Well good way. It is. Yeah, so you see
I mean, I'm trying to tell you let's go for the house, and you're saying what about a credit card
Matt listen you want a million subscribers before you put out any good content. I want a couple hundred thousand subscribers
I'll go with good fucking luck. I don't know how to fucking do that
I'll you got to put out your best content first you do you do the reviews you do every five days you do a review
Do you 30? Okay, we'll put out that mediocre shit and see if it gets you a hundred thousand subscribers
What about that great idea that I had for that show stop? I just say I'm silent
you and GQ and and
Vanity fairer doing it right now Larry Lawton got six point nine million views in less than a year and he did for it
It was 20 minutes. Can we talk about your vanity fairer deal?
I got more questions
Heard from them yet since oh you haven't I talked to him. I did a little thing with them
We didn't have a couple Matt is gonna be the cover of vanity fair. I'm not gonna be on this not what happened
Oh, that would be sad people do tell us what the truth is. What's the truth about vanity?
No, they talked to me. I'm gonna do an article on you. No
They wanted they want to do a series a video series with them. Oh, no, they
Want to do the same the Larry Lawton thing where I do four or five con man movies, and I review them
And I said, you know, that's what we ought to do. I don't do one
They're doing a series they do one with it's so frustrating being on here
It was bad enough when you have Danny, you know ADD and then now you're here and this guy this guy's never had one thing
He hasn't said one thing to help. It's nothing, but he's not here to fucking. I'm not here to help. I'm here to encourage
Oh my god
so
Yeah, they have a I guess you call a series
But they get like they'll get Larry Lawton and he'll do he'll review some heist movies
Then they get some FBI guy to do some FBI movies
Then they and they were gonna have me do some con man movies
But that's cool. They were like first they wanted to do it Skype and I was like really you really want to do it
Skype, I mean, you know, they're like, well, you know in the current situation like that's kind of fucked up
It's half-assed. I was like, but I said look I said, what if I got somebody I was gonna have you I said
What if I could get you somebody that could do it and they said, yeah, let me let me think about that
Let me get back with you. What I haven't heard from in a sense. Okay
So hopefully I really hope that it happens. I think that would be great. I
Mean it would be one thing. I'm saying do a whole nevermind. It's over. So listen. I got this. I got I
What is this is listening you guys bicker just read?
It really is I mean
This is you ready for the next question
Live chat question we got
Jermaine Wells if you didn't get into real estate
Did you have any other career dreams you wanted to pursue and he also wants to know
Additionally since we're watching live, would you take any special orders on your book during this time and add a signature or a doodle on the cover?
Honestly
I've had a I have at least one guy a one or two of guys really a week mail me their books
I sign them like if you included
If you include a piece of paper like tell me like you want to certain say like I'll put like you know to John, you know, I'll put
My favorite partner in crime, you know from Matt Cox's Secret Services most one and then I send it back to him
Some of the guys listen 90% of guys don't even give me like a return envelope. I'm paying
I had a guy from from Canada. I paid $20 to ship his book back to Canada. Damn, man
You know, which I don't I mean out here because to be honest, it's it's
You know, it's flattering to have somebody want you to sign the book
So if I have you know, I don't want to take a hit that was a that was a hit
But you know, I wouldn't be doing that all the time
Normally I mail it back because you mail it back and even if you break even it doesn't matter
It's it's so mail your book to Matt. Yeah, I'll send the return postage in there. Don't be a cheapskate
That'd be nice. He'll sign it. I'll sign. I'll send it back to you. Say, hey, do it. Where do they send it to?
I'll do a doodle on the front. Are you just giving your address out or I got a PO box your social and everything
I have a PO box. Okay, which social nice
But what about the careers? It's no crab good. I'm gonna get to snow crab. I'll take I'm gonna get to
I'm gonna get to snow crab trays
Do they have a snow crab pizza we can get a lot of snow crab and call me now
Right now get snow crab don't get the blue crab. You're actually order a snow crab. Yeah
Where you get snow crab delivered. He's a big shot the crispy crab crispy crab is a gas it is fire
Yeah, they got boiled peanuts. You guys want some boiled peanuts. I love in garlic sauce. You do. I love I was gonna get some earlier
And then he's like, yeah, fuck him. Are you really are you kidding me? I love I I'm gonna get sausage
Listen, I'm see come on. Should I listen to my mom?
He's like, no, he said no, just get him the double shot
The plane just tastes like good old water here's the sinuses
This guy says you hurt Danny's feelings
I wish I'd done it. It's guy I know it. Steve. Oh, that's funny. All right
We're ready for a role in another question. Yes, Steve. Listen Steve is the guy that owns a production company that I've been talking to that wants to do
That wants to do all the reviews the movie reviews your idea just now that you just came up. It's a great idea
I hope somebody runs with it. Absolutely. I think so and we've already talked to a we already talked to
What is her name? God, I always say her name wrong
Carolina, but the zoo
Yeah, so anyway, yeah, she's gonna set up the production everything. It's a great idea. I think it's a good idea
Let's do it. I mean, that's the hard part with anything is just getting started and getting over that initial step of not feeling like it's good enough
We got two plates of crab on the way
Getting everything in you know in order you go you do it you put it and then I'll put it on my channel
That's what I plan on doing. Hopefully in a month from now
I start having content on my channel and I'm gonna have it on there for six months
And I'm gonna have about a hundred fifty two hundred thousand subscribers and then I'm gonna do a true crime podcast
Then you're gonna go then you're gonna be like
Go Matt go Matt everybody subscribe that's listening right now
Exits
Inside true crime on YouTube even if you have to drop it again
Even we're gonna drop the link in the chat right now so you can go subscribe to Matt Cox
Wow, I look bad there
Even if you have to and I did nothing to remove your subscription from from concrete
Yeah, just unsubscribe and move it to to inside true crime. I encourage reasonable. Yeah
Danny won't be offended. Yeah
We got ten pounds, what is that equal in American money ten pounds. Yeah, Matt come on you got to know this
I sound confident
Ten twenty bucks what the show idea. Yeah, yeah, because here's the thing to like let's say let's say I review
Boiler room, you know how many guys I know that ran boiler rooms
Yeah, like I know that's not how it works or that is how it works
Look, I know guys that ran Ponzi schemes not one or two. I know multiple Ponzi scheme guys
They have great stories horrible stories. I mean they've destroyed people but the point is
Some of the stories are interesting especially how they get into it. They never they never it's always something goes wrong
And it evolves because if you if you get into a Ponzi scheme
Like if you said hey, I want to start upon I'm gonna do a Ponzi scheme if you knew from the get-go
I'm gonna start a Ponzi scheme, and this is a scam. Yeah, it's so easy to set up a Ponzi scheme that isn't in your name
You set up a fake identity
You dump a bunch of money into a decent website some brochures
You do a little bit of advertising you do a couple of events people start giving you money
They don't expect the money back you keep telling them their money is growing
Periodically you give them dividends. They usually typically say oh just keep reinvesting it before you know it
You've got 10 15 20 million dollars, and then if you were to disappear
They don't ever know who you were to begin with problem is most Ponzi schemes start off legitimate and it morphs into a Ponzi scheme
And the next thing you know they're trying to balance this Ponzi scheme of a hundred million dollars, and they're like I'm fucking over my head
What what went wrong? Well, what went wrong was when things went bad
You should have just been honest with your investors and taken the hit
Yeah, I follow you know given them what you could back and follow bankruptcy now
You got a hundred million dollar Ponzi scheme. You're going to prison the rest of your life. Yeah, so
But yeah, that would be great to do you do all kinds of different movies, and I know most guys that have run those types of schemes
People just want to hear you talk. I mean you could interview anybody and they would fucking
But the guys that I could watch Cox talk about paint for six hours
People like to hear people honestly they just like to hear somebody who?
Can speak concisely and confidently, and they'll just listen to you all day you speak not really I'm like a nice guy
I'm a babbling idiot. Um
Yeah, I'm retarded a babble. I don't fucking talk. I stutter. I don't know what I'm talking about
I don't speak as charismatic and confidently as you do. I'm no Matt Cox. You're a good storyteller
You're a very good story now you switched it earlier. It was let's bash the shit out
It's building back up back down again. He's feeling good about himself yank the carpet out from underneath
All right, let's do the next one
Next question. Yeah, all right. We got real underscore Joe Biden
Damn, thanks Joe shout out to Joe. Good. What are the most flagrant weaknesses that exist in secured lending including mortgages today?
What?
Are you paying attention I am but you let's face it you didn't read all that great. What are the most high?
Grant weaknesses. I can tell what he's talking to me is I started watering and he's got a hundred. He's about a hundred milligrams deep
All right, what are the most flagrant weaknesses that exist in secured lending including mortgages today? I
Mean I would so I used funny. I actually talked to a guy who I went to the title company spoke with a guy
That's starting a company that
He's he owns a title company. He's starting a separate company that monitors people's titles because it's becoming
rampant real estate with people
Removing people's deeds on their homes and putting them into other people's names
So he we were talking about what I had done and he was like oh what you did back then is easier to do now
He said now public records. You don't even have to have the original document
You can make a copy of the document and put a stamp on it. It says that true and that you witness the true and correct it
true and correct
actual document like oh, I've seen the real document file this one
It's not even an original document doesn't have to have an original seal doesn't have to have anything just a stamp on it
That oh, I saw the original this is and so this is good. They'll record it. He was telling me all kinds of little things
I was like are you fucking serious and he goes yeah, he goes it's easier now
To do what you did than it was back then I have all these guys in the comments saying you can't do that anymore
Really the guy that owns a title company is telling me it's easier now. So it's still it's still public records public records is just a
It's just
Right for fraud. I mean, it's just it's a it's a huge gaping hold
But what's nice is most people don't understand how public records works and so they don't take advantage
They don't commit fraud you just using public records because they don't really understand how it works
So if you're an if you're someone who worked at a title company or you have any
Any experience in that and you say look, I'm gonna go ahead and use this to my advantage
I mean, it's it's it's a huge opportunity for or it's a huge issue as far as frauds concerned
But there's such a limited amount of people that can do it
So and then of course if you have overlapping skill sets
It gets it gets outrageous and I'd say that's still the the main problem with real estate is public records
You can say oh you can make W2's, but yeah, but that's been done and they people do it
And they're always gonna do it and it's virtually impossible to catch it and stop it
So the one thing that's a huge I don't want to use the word opportunity a huge issue is public records
That's the problem public records if you could secure up problem public records
But keep mine to the left hand doesn't know what the right's doing right and the government and then when things go wrong
It's not a big enough problem
That there's no reason really to stop it and it doesn't cost the government anymore
Any anything because when it all goes wrong, it's the title companies that have to pay
So it's kind of you know the government's insulated from it. So there's no reason to try and revamp this system
Why would we revamp a system? It doesn't cost us anything and when it does cost anybody it cost the banks the banks all have insurance
Or there was real estate or there was title insurance. So it's kind of if you notice like it's like the credit card companies
Most of them didn't want to replace the credit cards with chips for a decade. They fought
Because their whole thing is yeah, but the fraud is already built into the interest rate
So we've already got this money set aside. So it's not really hurting us. It's hurting the customers
There's not really it's not really hurting us. Yeah, so why would we correct it until eventually the government said no
You're gonna do the chip and they forced them to do the chip. Is the chip any more secure?
No, not really cuz I before they even came out John
You remember John Boziak the guy at the credit card kid. I wrote that story
Mm-hmm called it's called bent and he was manufacturing credit cards for the Russian mob
Great story, bro. This guy's amazing super smart now wait you haven't seen him now
I mean he's caught in tattoos. Oh guys got tattoos everywhere
He looks like a straight gangster and but really when he was in prison
He had like a tattoo here and someone is and I know his arms and stuff, but he's 135 pound
How old was Justin Bieber? How old was he when you met him in prison?
29 and 30 that's crazy. And so now it's been five years and if you go to his Instagram account
He's just covered in tats. He just does tats just tatted up
But he was saying before the chips in the US even came out. They had already cloned them
And even have you ever gone? Have you ever gone to the store and you put your card in and the chip won't work
They go just slide it. Yeah, okay, so we're back to the old shit. That's easy. Yeah, okay. So what does it matter?
What are we doing? Yeah, what's the worst case scenario? They say can I have you see your ID?
You think if I can man if I could fake a yeah
We're good. Yeah, go ahead and take your Rolex watch and leave. Thank you. I mean this is not
Securing it just added an extra layer which nobody's paying attention to
You know
That's so fucking funny. I just stopped myself from saying thank god. That's so sad. That's just why I just have issues
This is why I'm on supervised release
So
Hey, how is your probation officer doing? You know what I was thinking was funny
I actually thought about this and I thought there's no way she even the suggestion. She'd be irritated at me
I was thinking Danny
I should suggest to Danny that she that he asked her to come on the podcast
Oh, yeah, she'd never do it. No, I know she would never do it. Yeah, she's already told me
Basically, right? I don't know that she can't but I think she her whole thing is she's like
I don't want to be famous. Do you understand like she doesn't like it when I mention her
She's like like oh, she hasn't said don't mention me again. Yeah, but she's like you do understand, mr. Cox
I don't want to be famous, right? I heard the podcast last night. You mentioned me
I don't want to be famous and I'm like, yeah, I know I feel real bad about that. Sorry about that. It's my bad
They asked me
You know, what am I gonna say? Yeah
But she's I'll bet you she's got some stories
I think people will be into it just like hearing like the people in your orbit who have the stories about you to get
Maybe some of the details that you're leaving out or to get just a different perspective on it. I think would be really interesting
Oh
She's she's she's she you know, I don't feel like she trusts me
She probably doesn't feel like we have we don't we're not close like that. I feel like that. I feel like she's uh, she's very
She's she's she's your probation. Yeah, her job is not the trust. Yeah. I know. I know but it hurts
I'm still I'm feeling because he can't get the edge
He's the one person she can't get the edge of it. Did somebody donate a hundred norway
monies? Yeah, I thought it was a hundred bucks at norway monies
What do they call it knocks maybe six dollars norway agent coin somebody converted it to nine dollars and one cent
971 oh, that's cool. Yeah, thank you read their comment. Yeah. Yeah, I got I got some comments from the people who are paying for their questions
Appreciate you. Nice. You're paying for the crab and we are super grateful for it. Yeah, I will be here soon
This one comes from joseph
Berkeley
Matt what element of the con did you enjoy the most? Was it the money or did you get more of a rush by duping the system?
This is a horrible
They paid for it. Truthfully. Truthfully. What was it?
Truthfully, you know why it's horrible? Let me first. Let me tell you why it's horrible because I'll answer it and I'll get
40 people that'll be like, oh, this guy's awesome. He's amazing
He's it and I'll get one guy that's like this guy's a fucking scumbag low life bragging piece of shit
They should have killed him and I was like and I'm like no matter what you're gonna hit that guy
Yeah, that's everything on the internet. That's everything on especially on youtube
And if you're gonna have like the number one trending scammer site on youtube, you're gonna be getting a lot of that
Thick skin. Well, I'm pretty thick skin, but it's still I a lot of times it's like, you know
They're talking about chopping some of his head off or you should bury him under the bridge
Like, you know, you've got an anger management problem. Yeah. Yeah, they get more than an anger management problem
You got some that's why you got that's why you're we're in the back cave
You don't put yourself out there because you know
So what what is your answer to that? That's probably going to be the fact it's going to be me doing this and that's going to be
your thing
And then I'll make your eyes all weird and
Nice bloodshot
Um, what would be the best?
That's a hard question bro
Because honestly look
If I had a million dollars, I had like 1.3 million in the bank. I've had a million in the bank. I've had
I I didn't I didn't live in a million dollar house. It's a lot of commas
I wasn't living in I wasn't living in a half a million dollar condo. I wasn't driving a Lamborghini
You know, I was driving in a decent sports car
Not not red silver black something very what kinds? I mean, I I've had I've had outies. I've had uh
Mercedes I've had um
You know, I've what if infinities
But you know, those are just those aren't like amazing cars. They're 60 70 thousand dollars
They're not it's not a 300 or half a million dollar 400 thousand dollar lamborghini
Right because then everybody's looking at you and people start asking questions and then so, you know, just something something nice
Yeah, lamborghini's like over the line lamborghini everybody and I've known five guys that have had lamborghini's
Every one of them didn't you just meet two guys who drove twin twin ferrari's ferrari's who were those guys?
Those were the doc that the plastic surgery plastic surgery
You bet them on the bubba the love sponge the love son show. What's a twin ferrari?
Well, it's not well these are twin brothers, right? They'd both do plastic surgery
No, no one has matching ferrari's one does black plastic surgery, but they're both attorneys
And they both had black ferrari's but when I told them when I mentioned they were they were matching they go
No, no, they're actually different
Are those the guys from the billboards that look exactly the same? Yes. Yeah. Oh, they are
Yeah, because now they're both they they're lawyers. They're both diaco one of them has a goatee in the other dozen
That's how you tell them apart. Oh, really? I didn't I'll check the billboard next time
But this guy's a creepy
uh, what was it was it
Winters and no, what was the fucking last names? Was it diaco or was it winters and yonker? No, no, they're they're diacos the diaco
Okay, I was gonna say
Yeah, they were the doctors are you thinking to call pepper curling call pepper curling. Yeah, they
Want to set a diacos, right? Yeah, that's my bubble. He got a set of diacos diacos. Yeah. Oh because he did the
He put the titties on the girl. No, don't let's not say that don't don't don't do it. We can't go there. We're live
There's no editing. No. Yeah, don't don't don't do it. That's just mean spirited. You're killing me. So listen
Um, okay, so what would be the best part? I mean
What would you say? Listen the base the best part for me honestly and you tell me it's
Um
This she says why can't I find the live version?
Really? Who said that my ex-wife
She's funny. So it's
How do I how do I think send the link just I don't know you got texted to her. Okay. Well, that's a link
Can I just put concrete?
Yeah, I'll text you a link right now. Yeah, keep going. Keep going. All right. I'm sorry. All right, so
Listen, is it fooling somebody? I don't know. I listen. There was no bigger thrill than walking in the bank
Putting down an id that was issued by
The state of florida or south carolina north carolina. You walk in you put down your driver's license
You hand them all the fake documents
You sign some documents
They hand you a check for $250,000 and then they thank you
For ripping them off and tell you and tell you you've been the best customer. I've ever worked with with mr. Black
Well, thank you. Thank you very much. All right. Well lee you have a good day
Jennifer you have a good day too and walking right out. I mean, let's face it. There's just that's amazing walking through passport control
And giving them a passport and they go, uh, mr. Solomon. Are you here for a business or pleasure? You're like
I'm here for pleasure and they're like, okay. All right. Well, thank you mr.
Solven. Thank you very much and sign here and you're good. Thank you. You walk out and you're like
This is ridiculous. You feel like james bond. Hell. Yeah. So is it the thrill? I would have to say it is the thrill
It's not that i'm trying to make somebody look bad. It's just that you're it's amazing that I guess that you're getting away with it
Of course
You walk out you get into a nice car. You go stay at a nice hotel. You're dating an amazing looking chick. You're
You've got tons of money. I mean, it's a great
Feeling you know, I mean I hate to say that but I mean it's it's you didn't spend your own money
You know, so I mean is it it would have to be the thrill, right?
It's got to be thrill
I mean, it's because it's not the money because I wasn't living like a like a multi-millionaire or anything
It wasn't blowing money. I wasn't driving a Ferrari. I mean, I'm just
Having a good time bad question. Anyway, if Shane had $50,000 in the bank, he'd be driving a Ferrari
I'll surely if I got 50 they'll finance me a Ferrari. Yeah, I got this look what I got. I got cash. We're good. Yeah, 50
Oh, you sent it to me. Okay, cool
copy
Next question awesome
You got more money questions. Yeah, we got more money questions
Tell Danny to shotgun a beer. Tell me paid five bucks for that. Tell me to shotgun a beer
I'm not shotgunning a beer for five bucks
Fuck that. I'll eat. I'll eat a crab leg for five for five bucks. I think you're up. I'm already like five deep
Matt, do you want to shotgun a starbucks for five bucks?
I don't think I can now I can't
Chug the rest of that frappuccino. It looks like it's got alcohol in it. No, hell no starbucks
That's a starbucks double shot. They have calua, right? Calua's got doesn't it? It's like coffee, right? Yeah, that's not
No, you're good on that. Oh, let's check on the crabs. You were that's crab
This is pretty good. I figured you like white chocolate
Oh, I don't know why that's better
There's some sexual content. Do you like it? This is good. You guessed right
Oh, man, will you go out and get it for us? Yeah, get me my crab
So this is one two. What's the next question? Oh, wait. Wait. I had a guy call me a metrosexual today
They're all printed. I don't know what's metrosexual. It's like to me. It's
It's somebody who's like a guy that's like so into himself
He's almost like a girl like he gets everything has to be so and he gets face peels and what's kind of like what you
That sounds more like
What's her name? Sam. Sam. What's a metrosexual?
She doesn't have a mic
was
See, okay. She didn't know either. She didn't know. I don't really know. She's not qualified to answer the question
Well, you got a shit with a plastic surgery, right? You got the uh, the laptop. Look it up. Let's look it up. Met. Google it up
We're learning here. Yeah, what is the show is all about growth?
What is the definition of a metrosexual a young urban heterosexual male with liberal
Political views and interest in fashion and a refined sense of taste. Hmm
Wow is way off. I mean, I thought all they missed was the fine arts degree
Why are you laughing? Yeah, you have a fine arts degree. I know I'm comfortable with my fine arts degree
I'm just jealous. I don't have one
This is the fine arts degree side of the table. Yeah, this is the no degrees side of the table
Oh, listen to this
I'm I'm jogging right today. I looked at I found a cell phone an iphone
I mean, this is like one of the big nice like I was like, wow, I was like pick it up. I look around
Nobody's there. It's on the sidewalk. I wait about five minutes listening to the radio. Okay
Finally, I call Stacey and I go, hey, I found an iphone. How do I find out who's it is?
And she goes, is it locked? And I said, yeah, it's the thumbprint thing
She goes, okay. Well, take it with you. They'll call you eventually. So I'm jogging back
I jog for like five or 10 minutes. Somebody calls the cell phone. I pick up the cell phone. I answer it
the woman says
Did you find a cell phone? I said, yeah, I found your cell phone. She's oh gosh, I go, where are you?
And she said I'm here. I said, okay, I'm here and she says, okay. Well, how can you bring it to me?
And I went, well, I'm
Five 10 minutes away
You're here. Can you meet me halfway? Just just head down
It was a bell lake road
And she goes, well, I'd have to cross the street then
And I went, oh, well, we wouldn't want that
I said, uh, okay, I'll bring it to you. So I jog all the way back there. I give her the cell foot
Listen, this is I thought well, maybe she's I didn't you know, maybe she's in a wheelchair
I don't know like I don't know. Yeah, she didn't want to cross the right the high the road. What I don't
It was cold here. I mean, it was it's too late. There's not a big deal. Anyway, the point that's not gonna happen
So I give her the phone. There's a uh, like a little button on the side of the iphone
It's and if you hit it if you switch it, it'll make your phone silent
And it just vibrates when people call it doesn't bother me. It's really cool. It's a really cool invention
I mean, well, we are like on a talk show right now. I mean
You're killing me, bro. So
Uh
What are you doing? So anyway, yeah, I give her the phone. She probably she just takes the phone. She says thank you and turns her on walks off
I just jogged
You couldn't cross the road. You're like what would she look like? I mean, she was frumpy. You know what frumpy looks like
It's not good. A little baggy. Yeah. Yeah. All right. She needed that. She should have met me halfway
She needed to meet me. Yeah, I know that sounds mean spirited, but the fact of matter is
She was a big one
Anyway, the bikes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, nothing, you know, I not here's the thing like Stacy goes. She tried to give you some money
I said, well, no, and I thought you know what?
I'm not gonna take any money. Like she said, let me give you $20
I would I'd be like, no, no, of course I don't want but it'd be nice if you offered
I found your phone. I returned your phone jogged it to you. I jog back like tim and now I have to go back again
Double time. Listen, I'm not being nice anymore. It's karma. My therapist tells me oh, you have to do selfless acts and everything. That's over
Over they say no more selfless act. No good deed goes unpunished. That's true
What's what's the next question? Wait, I have something that is probably the best thing I've seen in the live chat from daniel gmail
We have confirmation on what a metro sexual is nice and should be defined as from here on out
Someone who is sexually attracted to trains
Oh, oh shit
Metro literally
It's just silly to name for a train. It's just silly. Thank you daniel. Thank you daniel gmail
All right, next question
I just really went off the rails there
That was a hard hitter that was a hard one
All right, we got uh bobby underscore mccutchen
How much left of your restitution is there to pay?
What's a good question five million
900 and
970,000 I paid off about paid off about a little over 30
Probably close to 35 made me 35,000 really?
I had a job. I mean, I'm not I didn't have a job. I was in prison 35,000 cents. When did you start paying it? Oh, no
That was almost instantly they were selling stuff off
So when I got the six million a month or two later, they had sold some stuff off so they went towards restitution
Sold some stuff like your cars and no like no, they'd already sold all that
Like they sold all that none of that went towards restitution
And and the restitution that they hit me with they wanted they were saying 9.5 million and I was arguing
Hell no, I've never seen 9.5 million. That's ridiculous. Yeah, I never got 9.5 million
So we start arguing and we got them down to
Six million they were like, well, is it this much? I'm like and they're like look the FBI saying it's 11 and a half million
We we went 9.5. I'm like
So we went back and forth and I got it to to six million
But then as soon as my sentencing was over they were selling stuff off
They ended up selling some vacant lots or something and they got like 30 grand in and then since then I've been paying
I pay $150 a month
No matter what you have to pay 150 and then anything I pay 25% of anything I make over $2,000
So I pay 150 and if I make an extra if I make 3,000
It's 150
Plus 25 of the extra thousand. So it's 250 plus 150. So
It's whatever 400, you know, that's 400 bucks. So I've been paying
360 200
500 150
You know, I've only been doing that for about a year. I don't know what that's come to it
It's maybe come to two or three grand something like that. Not that much. I mean, you know
What are you what are you gonna do?
You know, you can only pay so much. I still have to pay bill. I still have to pay my rent. I still have to
How long till you pay off that uh, that's for you for me you got a butt chug it butt chug it
I don't I think we'll get kicked off youtube about butt chug it. Nope. That's what everybody wants
I
How long until you pay off that
My ex-wife just said in a question. What did she text you? She just did you have sex in prison?
That's a good question. Yeah, by my yeah, my step by myself. Um
Then she said did you meet and marry your ex-wife just to piss off eddie serralis?
Which was the guy that was dating my ex-wife when I
Eddie serralis was dating her. She's going that was my boss. That was my boss at the time
So he he's dating this chick
Kayla Burgos
And she comes in and he to get a mortgage
She applies for a mortgage. I know he's dating her, but he's also engaged to some some chick
So i'm like I start hitting on her and she's like i'm dating
I'm dating eddie and i'm like, yeah, but it pisses off his fucking fiance. So I was thinking maybe that's not gonna work out for you
So anyway, I I keep asking her out. I ask her out like probably four or five times over the next two weeks
And eventually she goes
Okay, she says yeah, we'll go out but she was also turns out she was the she worked at the bank
I banked with and checked my bank account
And then decided yeah, I'll go out with you
After she checked how much money I was depositing every month. Well, and and that's not just me. She'll tell you that
So i'm just saying
You know
That's but did you have sex in prison?
No, we you stop. Did you have sex in prison?
asshole shut the fuck up
Then she's pissed off. That's great. I mean, that's what you get. That's what happens. Everybody wants dany to shotgun a beer
I'll get
I'll shotgun it
What it how are you?
He's the gang. I didn't know what is that?
Don't you need a pencil or something? No, he thumbed it. He's got a strong thumb
Oh
That's what i'm talking about. That's what's up
That's the only kind of content you can get right here live on concrete. Wow
He set it off. Oh, this is great
This is great. That was good. Now you get
What's we got
Matt, I got another question question
Bubbie main
Oh, bubby man. Did you ever utilize the dark web during your times of fraud? I read that question. No, there was no there was no dark
I wasn't out back. I don't think there was a dark web. That was back in i got arrested in
2006 November 16th 2006 that was before the internet, right? I don't know. That's nice. I like that
Oh, fuck that was that
What do you mean right?
Yeah, sure that hurt
That's fine. I won't come next time
Fuck if I know all right. I got another one
uh
Matt from
Michael rodriguez
Have you ever ran into someone you've scammed before? If so, how did the situation occur and how did they react?
I've never you know, I've never scammed anybody
Well, like what about the people like maybe the names you used? I was just gonna say there was uh, there was a guy named
You saw him at like the Walgreens. No, I mean, I've never saw like like
Like there was a guy there was a guy named Scott Cugno and I used his identity and
I actually got
Like when I was doing research on on my book
I actually got documents in where they talk about talking to him and going to him and saying
They knock on his door and they just like show him like the marshals or the fbi forget
Which they like show him like my picture. They're like, he's like that's Matt Cox
They're like, well, he just used your identity to cash like $400,000 worth of checks and he's like
So I've always wondered if I bumped into him what he'd say, you know
Like look I feel bad. We gotta get him on because I knew him. I knew him. He was an account rep
I actually the way I got his information
We'd done a loan for his for him. So I had his date of birth. So security number
Um
So I had his date of birth. So security number, but I didn't have his mother's maiden name and the place of birth
So I I end up talking. I end up saying, hey, so Scott, what's up? How's it going? He's like, oh, what's up?
How's it going? I said, hey, I said, I go Cugno. I go Cugno. I go, what is that German?
Is that and he and he goes, no, no, it's English and I go, oh, are you are you a hundred percent or whatever it was?
You know, oh, it's it's scotch or whatever, you know, it's it's italian whatever it was and and I go, are you a hundred percent?
He goes, no, I said, what's your mom's last name? He goes, oh, my mom's last name. Boom. Just blurts it out
Okay, now I got your mom's last name and then I go, so were you born here and in florida and he goes
Yeah, I was born right here in Hillsborough County. I'm like, okay. Boom. I now I got everything
I got your name date of birth. So security number and I have your mom's maiden name
We don't even need to talk anymore. So I was slick son of a bitch
He actually was telling me a story about how his parents met
As I was ordering
the documents
To steal his identity. I mean, I'm sitting, he's talking to me and I'm downloading the Hillsborough County application for your birth certificate
I found out that while he's talking, I'm filling it out while he's telling me, you know
And he's like, oh, yeah, and this happened. I'm like, that is a funny story. That is a funny story
And I fold it up and I send off the shit and
A week later I had I feel bad about that. Don't don't judge me. I'm not and I liked scott scott's a nice guy. I mean
Why did I listen, you know, I'm only here. I need everybody to buy a book buy a book buy some books
I go over all this product. Where do we buy them in print and and nobody's Amazon on and on me and uh,
Amazon bro, Amazon. Yeah. Yeah. Is it on Kindle?
It's on Kindle and I have a guy who's turning it into an audible right now. And they want they want you to read the audible
Yeah, I read some comments. They want you to read it. I got a ton of them. You should read it. They want you
They want your voice. Listen, he can't read. I read like a fourth grader. Yeah, he does. Have you yeah, he's heard me
It's embarrassing
It is it's bad everybody at this table reads like a fourth grader. You've heard him reading questions and he's reading questions
I'm bloated reading these
Have some more gummies, dude
It's bad. It's nobody like they're like, oh, it doesn't matter that you haven't heard me read. You can do it
You don't know it's bad. So I can't read the fucking book. It's still it doesn't even matter
Trust me not with this attitude and the dyslexia
All right, let's move on to the next one. All right, um, let me check on the crab
Where's my crab? We got betcher j
What was his favorite book he has written and will he be doing more podcasts?
What what?
What is the favorite your favorite book you've written? Uh-huh. What was the second part?
Will you be doing more podcasts? Shane is teetering right now
Look at him. Can you zoom in on Shane's face on the camera? No, you can't
Need a super zoom
I'm trying to think uh, my favorite book. Yeah, bro, writing my book was hard
That's hard like writing it because your own story. Yeah, his own story. He's definitely his favorite sociopath
Nice. So narcissists narcissists. Well, I'll associate that too probably but the point is um
What's my you know what honestly? I I really liked writing
Because it's hilarious and everybody's read it which has only been a few people because I haven't
Like publicized it at all or even mentioned it is a book. I wrote called
Called the program which is about me in prison. It's only like 110 pages, but it's on amazon too. What's it about?
It's about me being in prison and I was
It's like the last couple years I was in prison when I knew I was getting out and I'm writing a bunch of guys stories
And I keep going into the drug program
So they won't ship me to a camp
Because my mom came over two weeks
So the closest it if colman's is colman. It's a low security place. Yeah, and it's only an hour away
From tampa. My mom drove there over two weeks. So what happens is
I was so close to the door and my points were so low
That the b.o.p kept saying we have to ship you to a camp
You have low you have camp points
And I kept saying I didn't want to go well eventually they said we're shipping you
Well, the only way to keep me there at the low was to get what's called a management variable put on you
And they like if you're in a in an education program, they won't ship you
So and they're good for a year. So I go I say look I can't you can't ship me. I'm going in the drug program
I have a drug problem. So and they're like well if you go in the drug program. Yeah, we'll we'll have to keep you here
So I go in the drug program and they they put a management variable on me, but it takes a month or so
So by the time the when the management variable comes on me, I immediately drop out of the program
It's supposed to be good for a year. Yeah
Three months later they call me and say look we're taking the management variable off you we're sending you to a camp
And I'm like, well, what are you talking about? It's supposed to be good for a year and they go
Yeah, but Cox there's a real push to get you guys like you into camps and you shouldn't be here
And I'm like, no, no, no, I got a problem with drugs. I got to go back to the drug program
And they're like you dropped out and I'm like, I know but I didn't realize how bad it was and you know
I need to face this. I used to it was so fucking bad. But I mean I I totally put it on I sold it
Like they're like, okay. Well, if you really you really need it, huh? I'm like, yeah, I do
And so I go back in again for four or five months till they put the put it back on me and then I drop out again
But it's I went nine months of the program and the fucking program is hilarious. I mean, it's
What are you doing because it's it's a it's not a drug program. It's a
It's a cognitive thinking program where they're trying to retrain the way criminals think
So they're trying to fix your criminal thinking
So you have criminal thinking errors or pattern errors or whatever they call them
They're trying to and they try and fix it. So there's there's it's a whole program based on it
So you're I'm there and these other guys like if you can go through the program and you can get through and graduate
You get a year off your sentence
But I'm so close to the door. I don't have time to get a year off my sentence. So
If I'd gone through the first time we've got maybe six or seven months off
And and and that would have been great six or seven months
But I was like look if I fuck if I get if I fuck up and go back to prison
I'm gonna need that year
I'll go to the program if I come back they give me three years
I'll go in the program then I'd get a year knocked off and get six months halfway
I'll be right back out the door. So I'm not gonna do it now. What if I have to come back save that one for
So what do they do to alter your criminal cognition or whatever it is?
Have you do things which are called like rsa's which are um
Oh god, what's an rsa? This is a rational self-analysis where you as soon as something happens you go through these steps in your mind
What you know what it
They teach all you you think like a normal person
And a criminal doesn't think like you do like you think if I jumped up right now
I said fuck you and threw something in your face. You might immediately be like
But before you do anything you're probably going. Okay. Where do my alter what?
What are the my possible choices if I do this then the cops come and this happens and this happens and this happens next
You know, and then you immediately think I have a child. I have a wife. I have bills
So before you know, you're like, you know, fuck you cocks just get out
But a criminal doesn't think like that
He's he has a criminal thing. I'm gonna kill you
And fuck the consequences. I'll go to prison. I don't even think about the consequences because I'm gonna get away with it
You know, so it teaches them to slow down and calculate all your the thoughts that normal people take for it take for granted
These guys, you know, they don't think like that
So they have all these little things that you do and they explain they go through
Why did you commit crimes or why did you do drugs? Why did you so you kind of really get into
all the different
um
All the different reasons that you are committing criminal acts and the other thing is they all held each other
Accountables they take everybody that is in this goes to the program and put them in one unit
So you've got 150 guys who are all holding each other accountable
Which means that if I see
If I see shane smoking pot in the fucking bathroom
Then in the morning meeting there's 150 guys in the morning meeting. We're all sitting there facing each other
You had a rat each other out, right? No, it's holding you accountable
So because I care about you. I'm I know it seems like the wrong thing to do, but I'm looking out for you
Shane I you're not taking your program
Seriously, you're not taking your your your therapy seriously. I'm sorry, right, but that's not gonna be good enough
So it's gotta be more than that. So I'm really sorry. You have to stand up and in front of everybody. They say look, here's what you did wrong
Here's what you're not taking it seriously. You you made these errors
You should have done this and here's what you need to do to correct your behavior and then they give you assignments
That's what I hated you want to pull me up and say matt you were rude the other day. I saw you do this
I saw you do that you mouthed off to some guy. Okay, fine. I'm fine. That's true. But then it's like
Basically to fix this you need to do this
You need to write a letter home to your family and tell them what you did that you jeopardized your program and you're one year off
You need to go around to five or 20 different people and get there get their
Their take on how you behave you need to next thing, you know, you got five fucking hours worth of work to do
I'm trying to write a book, bro
I mean I got you got me taking classes. You got me in the meetings. You got me doing this
I got a memorized cards. I'm trying to write. Oh, I hated it
But it's comical guys getting the fights in the bathroom guys are fucking swinging on each other
We were there one time you got a a guy who's there for
Like cheating the irs like he lied on his taxi got like three years
He stands up
He's caught this guy smoking k2. Yeah in the bathroom like twice
Now this is a guy whose mom is sick
And she's probably gonna die if he doesn't get the year off and get out. He's let everybody know
Anybody pulls me up. I'm gonna fucking beat their asses. I'm sure I got to get out of here
But he's also an idiot because he's still smoking k2. So this nice guy who's like a ceo stands up
He's like 60 years old stands up
This is a gang member by the way. He's like a crypt or a blood from
From hawaii who's already been to
Beating the state twice on murder charges happens to be here on a drug conspiracy
He stands up in the morning meeting. I'd like to pull up mr. Uh, mr. Whatever his name was
Uh, the other night. I saw you smoking pot in the bathroom again or k2 a band
You know and and and so he starts giving him the you know telling him you got to do this and this and this and this
And then he goes and then they give you have something called the damaging consequences
The damaging consequences to your behavior are and the guy goes I got your damaging consequences
The guy's like six foot tall six foot two. He swings on him. He punches the guys like it's chaos
150 guys are jumping. He's swinging. He's punching this guy. He's hitting this guy
It was fucking hilarious. I mean, I was never in danger. I'm like, I'm 40 feet away
I'm like, this is great if I wasn't I wasn't in the mix. So you're writing a story in your head
The whole time I was there. I was like, oh, this has got to go in
So I have all this this is in the book. It's in the book. It's hilarious
Guys are getting caught having sex in the bathroom. Guys are smoking dope guys are uh,
They're drinking hooch. They're they're threatening to kill each other like like no, I'm gonna have to pull you up tomorrow
He's like, you do that. I'll beat you to fucking death in your sleep, motherfucker. And they're like, oh
Holy
He's like, I fucking shit you not. I will beat you to fuck. I'll take a fucking sock
I'll beat you to death tonight that night
He said because you're gonna lose me my year
Fuck you
And and and then of course the guy's like a sex affair and then he's like look
B. O. P. Don't give a shit about a sex offender getting beat to death
So the guys might think it he might be thinking we probably won't kill me
Yeah, but you're gonna lose an eye if I start hitting you with a fucking you're asleep
And I start hitting you with a lock you're gonna lose an eye and you're gonna get shipped and I'm gonna break your nose and
I mean, it's it's it's vicious and you know, it's really funny is like
You have guys that are like owners of banks
Being told what to do by crack heads
So you got some little crack head who comes up. He's like, um, uh, listen
I noticed the other day you you had your your coke on the uh next to the computer and you're not allowed to have that
It's the second time and if I have to address you again, then I'm gonna address you in the morning meeting
I'm gonna pull you up and uh, you know, you're like
I'm a fucking CEO of a bank. I cheated on my taxes
You've got a prison gd
The fuck is how how did I get here? How is this guy telling me how to live my life? Yeah, I mean fucking crazy
Shit hilarious. So the whole everybody's read the book is like that's gotta just crush morally fucking crush. Oh, yeah
Oh, listen, you can imagine my ego being told having some fucking guy come up to me and say
Uh, Cox, can I talk to you? Like, yeah, what's up? They're like
Listen, bro. The uh, I noticed the other day your your bed. You don't do the hospital corner
And you know, you're supposed to do that. I'm like, what?
I got you joking and they're like, no, I know it sounds funny, but you know, I mean
I'm just bringing it to your attention, you know, and there's certain key words like
Do you have a minute? Which is basically they're saying they're gonna confront level you like I want to discuss
So that's the first step you have to confront love someone if they don't correct the behavior you get to pull them up
Well, you have to pull people up to graduate the program
So they're always looking everybody's on edge. They're always looking for something
Danny, I noticed that your shirt isn't exactly
It's not been ironed recently and uh, you know here in our dap we hold ourselves to a higher standard
I just want to bring it to your attention and right then, you know, right then that does not teach you how to be normal
No, this isn't listen. It's a completely fucked up program. Let me tell you one thing, you know
I got one for you one time a guy is talking to this chick. He's been
Talking to her for like a year or so
He's telling her i'm getting out. I got no money. I got no money. He convinces her to send him money
So when I get out, I have money. I got a couple grand three grand on my books
So when I get out, I'll have three wins. I and he's been
Doing getting her to send him money. Well the deep the drug treatment specialist
Start listening to his phone calls and they hear
Him telling her that
And they come to bring up in the what are you doing? Well, I mean, I need money and this and that. Yeah, but don't you have a girlfriend?
Well, I mean, yeah, I got a girlfriend when you're not being honest honesty is the it's the key to oh, yeah to change
It's a foundation. So you got to send that money back. Oh, no, huh?
Yeah, the three. Yeah, send the money back. Oh, they'll they'll write
They'll have guys write a letter home to their family
And they have their family write a letter back
That they then read and the the letter is how did your
How did your loved one?
Hurt your family hurt you how did his drug and alcohol or in criminal behavior harm you?
So you got guys that are getting letters and then they're reading it in
group therapy sessions
and
If your mom writes a letter
About what your crimes have done to her and how she feels about you
She's never told you this. Yeah, and it's red in front of the 20 guys that are in your group therapy. Oh, that's you've got guys
gangsters
crying like small fucking children weeping
Because mom
Just told everybody how you've embarrassed them how you're just a scumbag how they're they're humiliated by your behavior
How I mean you got guys that are just listen
It's there there's a lot of stuff they do that will fuck you up and guys do some guys
Are irrevocably changed by that program and some guys are just faking their way through it
But the book everybody's read the book is like bro. It's fucking amazing
They're like i'm laughing one minute and then when this happened, bro
I was in fucking tears
You know to bro this the doctor that runs the program there
Her name is dr. Smith
Bro that she for some reason the second time I went and she like took interest in me
She starts bringing me in all the time asking about my son
My son my ex-wife my mom my dad. Do you have a son?
Yeah, bro. Listen, it got so bad. I was like pavla's dog walking to the office. I start tearing up
Because I know fuck. She's gonna ask this. She's gonna talk about this. She's gonna and I mean
I'm just there's certain things like I'm like a complete sociopath on certain aspects and there's maybe three four things
You can ask me about
That I'll immediately start crying like a fucking child is your son one of them
My son would be one of them, which we're not gonna talk about. Um, we never talked about that in the podcast
I assure you we're not gonna talk about it. It's fucking horrible. Maybe that means that is yeah, we should no
Listen, I think we should listen. I will beat you to death with this heavy fucking thing
My two friends will definitely help me
He's not in a position to help anybody. I can't help you too much. He's stumbling. He'll be stumbling. I'm sorry. I might be able to
Take you Matt. I
That's a fair fight. No, I'm just joking. I'd pay to see it
Who else is going to see it? Who's going to drop some money in the chat to see that happen?
Me and Matt will wrestle right here on top of this table for the right price
Yeah, and depending on how much it gets depends on how nasty it gets
No, I'm dumb out
nah, man
So, uh, what else what are we doing? What's going on? What happened?
Well, it's actually one what you were talking about is really interesting like that program to help heal people
The crabs here the crabs here the crabs here
Do the crab please because you can get like that criminal sociopath brain
You're able to fake your way through anything
So, how can they like call you out on you like upholding your truth and not just being a complete sociopath criminal and saying what you need to
to get through it
how
I mean, here's the the problem is that well, sorry
Here's here's why I think and a lot of people go through the program and they know he's faking
They'll dr. Smith think keep in mind. She's seen
A thousand Matt Cox's she's seen a 2000 this guy five that she
As soon as you walk in she's categorizing. He's got a this personality type. He's got this. He's got this
As you're sitting there you sit down as she's talking to you she can sit there and go
Okay, so one of your parents has an alcohol problem. Is that right? And you're like
The fuck do you know that? I've never had a conversation with you, but within three or four minutes. She's already
Listen, I remember I used to say I feel horrible for her her husband or her ex-husband because he's never won an argument
Guarantee you can't win an argument with this chick because you can just like stare at you
Oh my god twist this twist that one of those I would walk in there and
Immediately I felt like the room was closing in I only time I've ever had a conversation with someone the whole time
I'm sitting there. I'm thinking how can I get out of the room? How can I get out of the room?
How can I get out of the room even before you're in the room?
Like you were talking about something like she's just in your head that much to where you know
The things that she's going to ask right so she would and there were people
What would people will be people graduating the program and she'll know he faked his way through the program
He didn't really this but he did everything was supposed to do he went through the things
I can't really change that he's going to get his he's going to get the year off and he's going to move forward
And there are other guys that she knows this guy has irrevocably been changed
And I think he's a better person as a result of of the program and listen there that honestly that type of a program
Should be done throughout the b.o.p
Like to knock off times because guys are genuinely trying to learn the material
It's the first time you can see guys that they're really trying some of them are like, oh, I'm faking it. I'm faking it
Yeah, you're faking it, bro
But I seen you crying like a baby in the in the morning meeting because they're the real thing
Right so you can sit here and tell all your gangster buddies
You're faking it but the truth is when they read that letter from your mom or your grandmother
You weren't faking it
So you can tell they they do change some people do change and maybe they change temporarily, but I think it's a good way
to help retrain how people think and criminals
there's really
There are programs, but the programs are pretty much a joke
And you can't really expect these guys to go out of their way and try and change when they don't think they have an issue
But if you gave them an incentive you said look you've passed this nine month program and you get a year off
They're gonna try it's gonna lower recidivism for sure
but
But you know, it's it's a limited program
But I they ought to do it across the board like they ought to say you get 20 off your sentence if you pass this program and do like
Oh man
You do really see some some changes
I think stuff like that is super important too because you know, you reach a certain point in that
Sort of pattern in thinking to where you don't even recognize the way that you're thinking like that anymore
And then it just like brings attention to it. Well, that's all helps you get over it
In that nine months that when they they teach you to do these certain things
You have to take workshops and all kinds of you have to go through rsa's and um
Where there was the other thing is uh, you're um
God there's two different types. I forget the other one. I actually in the book I have my um
They're not rsa's. They're uh
Attitude checks. I have attitude checks throughout the book
So you actually get to read my attitude checks not all of an attitude check
It's like um, you know
Today I was in the chow hall and the guys were standing in front of me
They were screaming and hollering and being disrespectful and but you you know, but you can't get away from them
They're screaming hollering it and all I could think about was hitting one of these guys in the head with a baseball bat
You know, and so you're sitting there thinking, you know, it was everything I could do to tell them to shut the fuck up
You know, and then you go attitude check you said what was what attitude was I struggling with and you go to your humility
And then you say, you know, then you say, you know, I had to tell myself that you know
They weren't raised in the same type of environment and to them
They didn't they didn't realize that what they were doing was being rude. You say what attitude was I
You know what attitude was I, you know, was I displaying and then you say whatever it was humility or
You know
Giving or forget. I don't know what the fucking attitudes are and then you say if I continue this behavior
Or practicing these types of self, you know talk or whatever
Then I'll be able to deal with you know, these complete jerk offs that scream and holler and spitting people's faces
You know, you know, you you kind of you talk your way through it instead of being like, hey, bro
You want to keep your fucking mouth? You want to be disrespect with what you gotta be?
You know next thing, you know, you're in a confrontation
Right
That's a way of processing these emotions that you're not used to processing other than dealing with it
Just like raw rage. Right. Right. And here's the thing is that
It's funny because
The some of the guys that have the hardest time
Are guys that like the smarter guys that have smarter crimes that you would think would sail through they do sail through
They sail through the first second third phase and by like the fourth phase or is it the third phase?
I forget just before you graduate when they really expect you to show some emotional changes
That's when they tear guys like like I don't know that I would have graduated the program because that last phase
They destroy me
That's where they really call you out and get you right. That's where because and that's and so graduating the program
I'm probably could have maybe I could have graduated me. It would have been hell. It would have been me and tears for
Two three months straight. I can't deal. I'll try to do the year. Yeah, I'll do the extra
That's emotionally taxing too. Yeah, especially if you've never felt those emotions for that long
Like a year of just staying within yourself rather than a couple of months of sharing with everybody that year sounds pretty good
Yeah
But you're crabs here and that sounds pretty good too
We have a
We have a crab fucking snow crab leg platter here crab bouffet
Cannot oh
Thank you
all right
Bone appetite dig in right are you are you not hungry? No, I'm hungry. I'm gonna eat some fucking crab
I'll tell you that shout out to jaymie walker drinking bud light smoking sigs and watching hell. Yeah, appreciate you
Like this is fucking ridiculous. This is a podcast safe food, right?
Answer questions
Stink lines killing it behind the board shout out stink lines come get some bold peanuts or crab
All right next question
That's your guys box. All right matt
cm cubes
44 minutes ago
What has been your favorite car to drive?
Wow
Look at these peanuts did I have an Audi a8? It was they were like it's like 90 95 grand or something like that
We're gonna have an Audi a8. No, I don't know what you had. It was like a four door
God that thing had a ton of horsepower was like four hundred and like 60 or 80 horsepower or something honestly the r8
The a8 what did you say? No, I think it was it was like a four door. Look at this peanut
It wasn't like the sports car. I think with the Audi the sports. It wasn't that was your favorite though
No, I'm saying that was a nice nice car, but honestly I
I had an Audi quattro tt. You're the little one
Like but people I don't think people think that's like a cool flashy car anything, but that was a nice car
I love that little car
Yeah, I mean that you know it's like
I don't know people have a weird perception of me or something like i'm doing crazy stuff and it's just not
I think they equate like getting that much money with living like a super lavish lifestyle
It's just not you know, I'm not that guy you were just like in it to be doing it. It seemed like you need napkins. Yeah
You're in it. Listen, I need to see somebody eat some of these fucking things. What what do you do?
Seriously, yeah, I mean, what am I doing? I don't eat. I've never I don't think I've eaten crab legs, but I break it
Like that I get the meat out
And I'm supposed to be I mean could you have picked a fucking so then I'm supposed to what
Suck the fucking meat out. Come on, man. I mean, I'm this right suck the meat
Mmm, you couldn't have got pizza. Yes. I said pizza like three fucking you didn't say it. Yeah
No
You complained that I didn't get your crab. You said crab legs and then I said, I'm gonna pizza
I'm gonna pizza. Oh your eyes lit up when he said crab legs. So that's why he ordered it. This is ridiculous
Aren't they're like tools aren't you supposed to have tool?
Fuck this is ridiculous
You got 10 fingers. You're supposed to eat real close to the microphone too. No crabs only have like two
Matt Cox asmr asmr muckbang Matt Cox. I mean, how do you get it out of the
map
Are you gonna have crab legs before I've had them before but they were like things you could crack them open with
They had tools and shit
This ain't Ruth Chris matt
far from it
Damn, it's good though. Mm. Well peanuts are fire. Yeah
All right. What's the next question?
I can't touch my computer anymore
All right, I got this guy. It's not really a question, but Danny printed these so I'm gonna read it. It says
uh, Kevin
Love doll four months ago
I need this guy's phone number. I only owe a third of my home's value and I can't even get a call back from a bank to refinance it
It doesn't seem right
You go hard money guy. I wonder what his DTI is
What's the DTI mean? Listen, is that like DTI? I can't even get a call back
I don't know. Probably they're pulling his credit. Maybe his credit's bad or something
But even then you could get a hard money loan, but hard money loans fucking
It depends on what he wants to do with the loan
He's just want to pull a bunch of cash out and what's he gonna do?
I mean, is it worth and he could be he could be saying the wrong thing
Like I've had guys come in before and the mortgage company they come in and they owed
They owed a hundred thousand on a 250,000 dollar house. That's a that's a that's a no-brainer, right? You're gonna do that loan
and then
When the bank says well, what do you want the hundred thousand dollars that you're going to get out?
What do you want it for? Oh, I'm going to go open quit my job and go open a go open up a business
Yeah, we're not lending the money
Because so you you had a stable job, which is how you're going to pay them back
You're now saying I'm going to quit my stability
And I'm going to go start a venture that has a good chance of failing
Because what is it? Is it three out of four businesses fail? I have a question matt
The first three years or something like that. I figure what this should be good. How do you
Set up pretty good. Yeah, this is great. How do you think the mortgage business is doing?
How do you think the banks are doing with mortgage with mortgages home mortgages right now during this plague we're going through?
Oh, I'm sure it's fucking horrible, right? Really? I don't know. I don't how I talk to a banker today. He said it's amazing
It's great. He says they're doing all kind of doing loans more loans than they've ever done
That's funny. I wonder and they're doing a lot of new construction loans too
Yeah, okay
Maybe he's just trying to sell me. I don't know what the I mean
Listen, so how are you proving these people's income or are they giving them some kind of exception where they're saying?
Look, you don't have to prove your dti because you've been out of bit out of work for a month and a half
Right, so you've been out of work for a month and a half and I'm going to give you a loan
We don't even know when you're going to have another pay stub. I'm I'm asking you for your last two pay stubs. They can't provide them
Oh, I have unemployment really. So you're getting like a third of what you would be getting. I mean, I don't even know how that works
Maybe they're saying, oh, no, we're giving you an exemption and we're doing this and it okay. Well, that's possible
You know, but I mean, I don't do loans by I can't imagine they're doing great. Yeah
I got a question. Sure. You know a lot about mortgages
Do you know anything about morgan and morgan?
I don't know morgan and morgan. That's that's the the lawyers for the people for the
No, I don't know anything about them. Why I'm just curious. Why I don't know anything about me. How does that have anything to do with morgan mortgages?
I don't know. It rhymes with mortgage
Starts with an M. What's happening?
Shane's fucking baked right now
Shane, you got any questions? Crab's hitting
Crab hit different
I can't scroll through the question. I gotta use the back of my hand to scroll through these questions
All right, oh, that's potato
Big potato. It's a big potato. They're all yours. There's no fork or anything. No, sorry. Unbelievable. Unbelievable
Next question, Shane
They're looking they're all kind of like the same. They're always like, what's your biggest regret?
What do you do? Is it worth it? No, it wasn't worth it. No, it was 12 years. No, you used the dark web
I didn't use the dark web. What was your favorite car?
All right, here's a different one flash underscore gordon
Since you've made lots of fast money does working a normal job to you
To make money seem extra mundane to you now
I don't have a normal job
so I paint paintings
and I write and
I get you know, I
Sell books and I get money and I got a little bit of money ever comes in every once in a while from a royalties
and I don't have a normal job and I'm trying to
I'm working on getting a series. Would you ever get a like a regular normal job?
Yeah, I would do that. I would do that
Like just a jiffy lube or something. I mean working at a gym. weren't you like working at a gym doing like cleaning up?
Yeah, yeah, I was like
I'd love to
I don't know where that went bro something dropped
That's a little dog in here. We'll find it. Um, I mean when I was in the halfway house. I worked in the gym
It's a little dog wait. Oh, bro. The weirdest shit just happened. I can't even explain it right now
Shane knows what's happening either. I can't believe I'm the one who's on probation here. I really
I
Everybody this table has been on probation at some point. That's very true
Next question I have a legitimate question though. Hopefully I can recover. We learned our lesson matt
They corrected our criminal thinking. Yeah, did it work on you?
Me so far so far
So on the uh
The american greed series and they go into the the the art that you would leave behind
No, this is like a legitimate question about it
Like I want to know like what are some of the things that inspired you to create the pieces
And like where did that come from like the sculpture that you left in the apartment?
I I where did that come from and like was there any meaning to it?
Or was it just like a spontaneous act of creation what tater?
Tater up
I have no idea if this is hot as hell my lips are all fucking there's water right there's bottle of water right there
Do you need more coffee? I know I I brought the wild water peanuts and we got spicy ass boiled
This is the spiciest boiled peanuts I've ever had
They're good
Didn't we have a talk about not getting spicy?
I have what I just said. Yeah
Wow, um, and you don't listen never does he he does look he just doesn't care he listens to himself
probably true
so
The I would love to
I would love to redo that statue like I've tried to completely do it twice
Um
Both times something has happened like and I ended up having to ditch this statue or something for some reason so I'd look
Oh, I know I was actually working on that statue again when I got arrested
in 2006 and the other time was
We couldn't fit in the back of the van
but we had like this
Little suv thing and we packed our stuff and I couldn't get in the back of the van
So I ended up leaving it in the garage
And then they said then when the guy got found the came in the house. He said that I'd stuck it in the middle of the living room
Taunting him. It was in the garage. I mean, you just didn't have room for it. I just didn't have room for it
It wasn't I didn't leave it to taunt you it was sitting in the garage, but whatever. Um
But that was to their credit. They were just trying to make the show more entertaining. Yeah, sure
But it was like the the sculpture itself though
Like that was just like a reoccurring thing that you would just be making
I don't know why I actually draw on that by the way a few times
Like I drew a guy in the same kind of basic position inside of a box. Trion has that picture. I need to get that picture from Trion
Probably feels it's his picture at this point
Been holding it for a while. So
I don't know. It's just uh, uh, this I don't know if it's agony or just being tortured or just just uh
Yeah, I don't know. There probably is I I what would you say gill and why what does it look like to you?
To me it looked like somebody reaching for help
Okay, because you know, it's like kind of like in this position like it's like, you know
He's more like this. He's more like or is he like that? I forget. But yeah
I should walking dead when they have the zombies on the right and they're like cut in half and they're just like stuck there
And it's just the head in the arms. That's what it reminded me of I should redo that. I should
Go get some chicken. Why are you really should I would be pretty cool right there
Somebody would buy that that shit for sure. Yeah, who would buy some of Matt's art out there
Yeah, let us know buy some art
Subscribe to the page
spicy crab
Next question
This is this is
I'm gonna have to go get something to eat
You're not you're not stuffed. I'm I can't eat this. There's no meat in it
And you it takes too much to break it apart and you don't have the tools and it's
You know a metro sexual map. I yeah, um
I
We'll take you to uh mcdonald's after this
Taco Bell
It's only shit. That's open somebody said they've never seen somebody complain about crab legs. You're definitely not from florida
I'm from florida. I was born in florida. I consider myself a florida cracker. I I mean, I you know, I'm sorry that I you know
I unbelievable
Unbelievable unreal unreal can't believe this shit
Which one of his ids do you need to see for you to believe that he's from florida?
That's amazing
All right, what's the next question? They're really all the same shit. Sorry just ask them like
What was your biggest regret while doing why you were doing fraud
What was my biggest throughout your entire career? What's the one thing that if you take back one thing
What would it be other than this podcast? I was gonna say
Wow, see, you know what that's one of those that's a that's a that's a that's a loaded question
Because think about it
What the I know the correct answer is a sausage. Yeah
What is it?
Let me hold that the correct answer is I wish I'd never committed fraud to begin with
Um, right in that the correct answer. No, I want to hear the truth. That's the answer
I mean if if the scenario it also says like was there a specific person or situation you regret doing
I regret doing com joe
Yeah, is there a specific one?
person or or or fraud crime or
I don't know wife probably tax them that looks serious
Time to change the diaper everybody pray for Danny. It's time to probably throw he's probably going outside to throw up bad crab
Bad crab too many shots all gonna be throwing up crabs great. This crab is amazing. The sausage is fire. Oh my gosh
My nose is running. Oh, that shit was too spicy. It's all spice
There's more sausage in there if you want to try it
Sausage is really good. Is it? No, I just no, I'm good. I'm good. This is this doesn't taste like it mixes well with coffee
What doesn't mix well with coffee? I've never sat down for a nice cup of coffee and
played a crab
Let's see. Oh, that's refreshing. What would be
Biggest, okay. I got I got I got it. All right. All right. So one I made people throwing money
You know, I should you know one of the problems when I was in South Carolina
And I had applied for a bunch of loans and one of the loan officers actually like I was closing the loans and one of the loan officers
left
And went on vacation and then came back and processed the loan
So the actuary the actuary the abstractor went down to public records to check public records
But as loans were closing so she actually caught several of the several of those loans. Well
I had like
We had like 1.3 million in the bank and we'd taken out like 600,000 or something
The problem was
I remember
She was saying she was going on vacation, but it wouldn't slow down
It wouldn't stop the process no big deal where I'll put everything through
I'm like, okay, so we're still gonna close within the next, you know 30 days. Oh, yeah, no problem
No problem. Well, she didn't and I remember thinking it may be an issue and right then I like it was like
I was like, oh god, what if she doesn't I was like, was she saying she's going to
So I didn't right, you know, I was questioning it, but she seemed like I should have right then been like, yeah, you know
I'll come back or I should have but I didn't
That was an issue. That was an issue. The other issue was
The thing I did with with Alice and Arnold, which was
Where she pretend yeah, I'm done. Thank you where I
Where uh
She pretended to be Rosita Perez
Mm-hmm
Like
That was so there was just no real benefit. It was just Allison saying she wanted to do something. What could she do?
I had everything was going smoothly without her doing that and for some reason I was like
Well, you know, you could do this
It was kind of like I was just trying new things to give her something to give her something to do and it was stupid
I could have given her, you know, I could have just said look, let me give you ting ran
Right go spend this right you could pay you can pay me back later. I'll get you on your feet
No big deal, but instead and I was giving her money. I did run her place and borrow stuff, but I was like
I did it just because it was kind of a
A practice run to see what would happen and this and that and really what I was doing was working very smoothly
And was just pure stupidity. It was like
Trial and error. Well, man, that's not the kind of it's not the kind of business you do trial and error
Yeah trial and error is somebody goes gets caught and goes to prison
And it just it was just a complete disregard for
Everything that I had already kind of knew was and was was
Wasn't going to work or shouldn't be tried and I tried it anyway because I was thinking I'm not going in the bank
So worst-case scenarios they get grabbed. I'll get him a lawyer. Well this well that you know, it was just it was just stupid
Yeah, but you can't always trust people in that situation. Oh, no, you can't trust anybody
Nobody I know didn't turn on me immediately
But I didn't know that at the time
At the time I thought oh, you know, oh, this person won't say anything
But that that just wasn't the case
You know, which is fine. You know, I don't blame anybody
Um, it was certainly it was absolutely my fault. Like I never should have involved Alice and Arnold
And she didn't even do anything. She didn't even know anything. She was just
All right, she was just in a bad spot and I took advantage of the situation. She was there. Yeah, you know, and she I should have known
I mean I I not I should have known I did know and I did it anyway because I thought well, well
I wonder if this will work. Yeah, this should work. Yeah. Hey, we could do this and then what the fuck am I doing?
I'm already I've already got a foolproof plan that's making tons of money
We wanted more. Yeah. Well, I was it wasn't more. It was just trial and error. I wonder if this will work now
It's just like hey, let's tweak it here. Let's do this. Let's do this. Hey, wonder if this would work
You know, it's like, okay, what are you doing? You're getting fucking creative. You got a foolproof money-making machine right here
Don't get cute. Just stick with the plan. It's working. Nobody the banks didn't even know they were being defrauded
I'm buying a house for 50 or 40
Recording the value barring 150 160 walking away with a hundred thousand dollars
Then the house goes into foreclosure six months later. The banks take it back
They don't even realize that they lent 150 or a hundred thousand dollars more on a house
They take it back. They sell it. They take the loss. They think well, we we just lost a hundred thousand dollars that happens sometimes
And that's what they it was happening for a year and a half. They're not even looking
They don't even realize it and then I start getting cute
It was just that that was just pure stupid. I think that answers the question pretty much just stupid
I've got lots of stupid things I did
Hurts me when you ask questions like that. I was screaming better. I didn't
You know, I'm just reading these Danny prinsome. He pays these. Yeah, I got one. Keep that in mind
From David Rene who dropped five dollars in the crab bucket
Thanks, David
If the u.s. Government had offered matt the chance to work for them for 20 years minimum non-negotiable in exchange for no prison time
Would he have done it?
I mean, am I gonna get paid? I mean, I still have to get paid. I still have to live
That's one of those questions. Are you setting terms for the u.s. Government?
I am setting terms because I you know, if they're like, oh, we're gonna pay you
$24,000 a year for the next 20 years. Well, I'm not
I mean, you'd rather just ride it out in jail. I don't know. I mean, that's like
Can I work a side job? Like am I I'm an indentured
servant for the next 20, you know, that's that's a tough but like
Or you go to jail for 10 years or you get 26 years or 20, you know, whatever it is
I need more but I would basically say if the terms were correct, then yeah, I would absolutely do that
Of course
Good answer. Who wouldn't do that? You know, that's the whole frank abagnale thing the catch me if you can
Like everybody watches the movie thinks that the fbi got him out of prison
They didn't get him out of prison
You know, he got out of prison on if you read his book. He actually got out of prison on parole
He was denied. I think the first and second time he was up for parole
I think he did like six years total on a huge sentence of like 14 14 years or something
I think it was 14 years. He ended up doing like five or six years. He gets out and then he starts working
for the working teaching classes like it doesn't happen the way
The way they portrayed it in the movie. He actually did all of his time
And people are like, oh, yeah, the fbi came and they got him out. No, they didn't you all watch the movie the movie's wrong
Read his book
He tells the whole he tells exactly what happens in his book, which is called the art of steel. That's the second book to
Catch me if you can and he goes over a whole bunch of scams and stuff too. It's actually pretty cool. Catch me if you can the book is pretty cool
Really
Is almost the same the book is that same title catch me if you can catch me if you can
It's almost exactly like the like the movie almost there's some subtle differences
We're actually heading in a great direction because we got another question from sandro
Neelos who dropped five bucks
What is the best fraud matt ever heard about and is it still going on?
Also, he needs an audio book version and he wants you to read it
And audio read the audio book. Well, you must have just turned it tuned in. I've got a professional narrator
Doing the audio version of your voice. Yeah, they want your voice. It's not gonna happen
I can't read it read like a fourth grader. It would be horrible and you wouldn't want to read it
Why don't you do your audio book the same way david goggins did his audio book?
He didn't actually read from anything. He basically just did what we're doing
He had like a so he had like a professional story to somebody
That yeah, david goggins did an audio version of his written book
And he basically had a guy like who was a professional like a professional story to a guy who reads books
Basically ask him a list of structured questions to where goggins
Could fill in the blanks talking from the heart. You know what I mean, right?
So it's kind of like a hybrid podcast slash audio book and it was actually really entertaining
I thought it was done really well. You should check it out. That would be a good option for you to do
I think people would love that you could give me the link. I could ask you the question
I'll send it to you. I'll send it to you. Give me the link
We can hang out and eat some crab. Yeah, we can eat crab and read your audio book
Shane is fucking up the crab too much. He is
There's more crab over here. Yeah, you want these crab and taters?
I mean, he's chewing up the bone. I'm gonna let him go to waste
He's chewing up the bone too. I mean, it's the bone
I'm eating crab. I gotta be careful with the juice. Here put it over here
Let me throw this. Don't waste it. Don't waste the juice
Hey, who wants to see dany drink the juice?
If anybody drops 10 bucks, dany will drink the juice 50 bucks. He'll drink the juice
I don't think dany's drinking that juice. He'll drink it
Drop a crab emoji if you want to see dany drink the juice
I need a toothpick
Let me hold the toothpick
We can't even go out to dinner anywhere, Matt. What do we do now?
I can't. I mean, boy, he's he's he's he's playing this. He did the whole he didn't nobody said nothing to me about food
Coronavirus thing he planned it dany to make sure all the restaurants were shut down so that we couldn't go
He didn't have to pay for us. No, and then listen left his crab
You know the best the best restaurant. He's he's brought me to is waffle house
Waffle house. You're not gonna get much better than that. Yeah. I mean, that's the best and I love waffle house
top level for him. But for him
That Amy, he's he's driving a land rover. What is he selling you short? Yeah, he's he's something else
So five stars. Yeah
This guy
When you first came on the podcast, we honestly thought that you might have been hitting on shame
We thought we thought that you might have been horny for shame. Look, we didn't know come on. No
He's you know, did I not say that after the first podcast? Yeah, we got some crab emojis
We were getting some vibes from you, Matt
We thought that you might have nice you might have been playing both sides of the fence
We thought that maybe you didn't leave it behind the gate behind
Listen, if I was gay, I would have stayed in prison. I'd have been perfectly happy
The gay guys in prison are the happiest guys there. They're they're really okay with everything
It's like it's like being in a women's prison. You're like, yeah
Where are we at? What are we doing people are drinking crab juice
There's a lot of crabs in the chat. A lot of crabs. Where are my crabs at?
We got a lot of waffle house and crabs
All right, let's let Shane finish eating these crab legs and I'll drink the juice
Oh, are you he's done? I know your joke. Where are we at? We're about to watch you drink some crab juice
I said the crab legs aside
Should we put some jack Daniels in the crab juice? Yeah a little bit of jack
Should we
All right, we have another question here
It's just two hours. We're going on two hours
It feels like we just started
Danny picked the worst stuff to ask
Why would you pull it up so hard? Why is it the worst?
Just long
Stupid questions. Just because you don't want to read it. He can't read that. Yeah, the long he can't read the long
Like he's doing fine. Listen to this one. Not really a question
Well, I feel like not even question. If it's not a question then go read that one. Yeah, read it. It's a great comment
What is it? Oh, they're letting you know it's not a question. We want to know his reaction to the comment
Not really a question. Hey matt, I take criminal justice courses at school
And we had to do a presentation on criminal of our choice
Most people chose bundy the zodiac killer, you know people like that, but I chose you your life
Fuck yeah, your life your life of crime from this podcast just intrigued me so much. You're an excellent storyteller
As well glad you got your life turned around
That's from antonio 53 minutes ago. That's gotta make you feel good. Yeah. Yeah, that's good
How do you feel? How does that make you feel like that? No, that makes me feel good
It's like it's like when the guys that he's got another one. Yeah, there's a lot of this shit like this
I was gonna say there's and then there's the one that you're stopping five months ago. He's the most
interesting self-centered
Narcissist I've ever liked I watched all three videos first two back to back. I couldn't turn it off
It's funny that you completely love the self-centered narcissist thing. I have no problem with it
It's like no, it's not that you don't have a problem with it. You kind of like you push it
I don't because it's true. You own it. Don't you have to own it? Yeah, I mean, look, what could I say?
I could sit here and go that's not true really because you're it everything about you says something different
So for you to sit there and and and deny that
It it just it gives power to the people that are that are saying it in a negative light
I don't see it in a negative light
You know, I under I know it's I know it's a thing. I know it's definitely uh
It's I'm gonna say it's an issue
You know and and in some ways i'm i'm i'm working on it and in some ways i'm i'm running with it
so
you know if I could
If I could tweak it enough so that I actually
You know gave a shit about other people more
That would help
but it's it's it's difficult for me to
Focus in on other people without trying to switch the conversation
Back to me
And it's an asshole thing to do and I see myself doing it all the time
And I'll walk away from a conversation and be like god you self-centered fucking
selfish prick
You just had that whole conversation with this person and every time you you tried to turn you turned it back on yourself
And I'll see myself doing it in the middle of a a conversation. You know what I noticed about
Uh your podcast or not your podcast, but when you went on bubba the love sponges show
Bubba's always turned to stuff about making stuff about him
Right like he's interviewing you and the diaco guys are talking about you or whatever and
Before he kind of like gave in finally and let you tell the story
I feel like he was always talking about something like trying to relate it to himself or talking about something that he went through
And and asking questions. It seemed like he was
well, I think to be in it to
I think
To be an entertainment or to be a personality you have to have a certain
A certain amount of narcissism. Yeah, I mean bubba. Yeah, that's why narcissists. Yeah, that's right
You know, but I think bubba also owns it. Do you think bubba's a bigger narcissist than you are?
I hope so I mean
I mean, I you know
I don't know. I mean, I honestly I way to be modest
For once
I mean, I
you know
I honestly if I could change it
I would and I'm constantly struggling to make alterations to the behavior and it's difficult and knowing it
You would think knowing it like they're like, you know, oh
Admitting you have a problem as part of this, you know, half the battle. It's the first that bro. Listen. I've known it
I've known it for a long time and it's fucking difficult
Sometimes I just get sick of myself. Mm-hmm. So
You know, I don't know. I don't know what the question was
Do I
How was the bubba podcast? I heard the bubba when you went on bubba's show, how many times did you go on bubba the love sponge?
Uh twice
I was excited just to go on because I grew up with big shot. I grew up with I grew up, you know
He was the Howard Stern of the south. Yeah of the Tampa Bay area. I think he worked with Howard Stern
Yeah, he's a good friend. Yeah. Yeah
Um, yeah, I mean I thought the podcast was uh fine. I went on it twice and uh, but you know
Here's a problem is too is that it's a much different format and it's it's it's a fraternity club kind of guys screaming holler and kind of like this but
but
But amplified. Mm. They really talk over each other. They were with a couple of lawyers and then bubba
Yeah, but the lawyers were the lawyers were better than bubba
um
But it's the same thing
It's a lot of cutting up and and that's what people want to they want to hear that when you when you're listening to a radio program
that's kind of what you want to hear but it's like, okay, but
I'm not one of the
personalities here you asked me here to tell my story
And then I start telling the story and they keep they interrupt and they laugh and they choke and it's like
Right, you can't tell the story. I feel like I feel like I'm supposed to get through the whole story
That's what you asked me to do and you keep interrupting and it keeps stretching. And next thing, you know, it's three hours
I haven't told really gone through the story and it's like I feel like I fucked up like I thought you wanted me to tell
Like I can't stop you from
Interrupting and talking. Yeah, so it's like what did I fuck up? Is it me or
Am I not understanding and the other thing is you go on these podcasts
And like you never talked to the guys like the guy from value attainment
I figured okay. Well, I'm because like even with you when I got here
Well, the first time we were here we I got here. I sat down you said, okay
Well, here's how it's kind of gonna be and you kind of you explained everything, you know, you said, yeah, we'll just talk about this
Just tell your story. How long is your story? What do you want to talk about?
What do you think? So what's the best you kind of had a little it was only five minutes
But we had a discussion when I went to value attainment
I walked in the guy sitting there. He's like, hey Matthew Matthew Cox right. Hey, how are you?
How are you? I was a great impression of his voice, by the way
Oh, yeah
And so he sits I sit down and I'm like, hey, um, he's like, okay. Well, uh, yeah
We're gonna go ahead and roll and I'm like, well, we're are we this is it. We're gonna he's like, yeah, yeah
I've already read everything on you. I know the story. I got you everything. I was like, oh, um, okay
So and then boom it just started time is money
I
I had no
Understanding what was gonna happen. Same thing with uh with Vlad. I sat down his picture comes on we talked for maybe a minute or two
about
About a release he asked me to sign
And I was like, the way it's worded this and this I'm not quite sure I don't feel comfortable with this
He's like, well, you can write this in right fix fix it. However, what do you want to write say?
I said, I just want to say this right here
And he's like, okay, that's fine. I don't have a problem with that. So we we changed a couple of things
So you literally signed a physical release even though he was on skype
So the camera guy had a release. Yeah, I had a release with vlad
You know for the podcast same kind of thing I signed for value payment, but you know
Basically what they they asked you for like everything
Yeah, and so you're you're kind of almost it's not like you're signing over stuff
But they act like oh, it's not a big deal. It's not a big deal, but
I've been in the situation where it's not a big deal
It's not a big deal and you sign and then later on it's like, oh, well you signed here you signed
Yeah, but you said that wasn't what I was signing. You said it was this and oh, that's what you sign
You're like
Well, fuck so I always kind of read through it and say look I learned the hard way. Yeah, I'm not good with this
And and they're like, you know scribble that out and I'm like, look if you're only going to put it on your platform
You're not going to sell it for a for a documentary. You're not going to no no no no
It's just for my platform. It will only be up. Okay, great. Let's say that and then I jot it down
So we had a quick discussion. He said no problem. I jot it down take a picture and the next thing you know
He's like, okay, let's go ahead and start
boom
so
Really, this has been like probably one of the best well those guys I've been on the even though
He's crazy and it's it's long and it's like but it's it's more casual
And you don't what's more casual you this oh
It's a for me
The valutainment guy was good was pretty good too. They're all good. They're all good. They're all good. They're bad
They just those guys have been doing it way longer than I have or than we have those guys have been doing
There was like one-on-one interview type shows for a long time
And they've done a shitload more than I have that's for sure
But you're not so they're put yourself in the store. You're not trying to you're not trying to
Dictate the story. You're like so what happened? You're just like so what happened next?
So what happened it so you get to tell the story that you want to tell well neither is vlad
I mean vlad's not even on camera. He's just no, but he does. No, he's not he's asking questions
and he's jumping
So if you have a certain like for me, I have a chronological story that I basically tell
It's my story. You say tell me your story. Do you jump from
College back to high school and then to when you worked when you were 50 and then back to and then all the way back to the beginning
Or do you tell your story if you had to tell your story, would you tell it chronologically?
Say chronologically these guys are all some of these guys are all over the place and sometimes they're asking questions like
So what do you think about mortgage rates right now? Oh, fuck. I'm not in the mortgage industry
Been the mortgage industry for 15 years. How would I know what what rates are gonna do?
What do you think the current real estate market's gonna do? I don't own anything
I don't own a piece of property. I don't have any I don't have my
My finger on the pulse of real estate. So I don't know
So it's it's it's funny that they would even think
That I would have it any idea of what's going on. Well, those guys know what they're doing
Probably so more than we do so
It's out it next question
Not not really questions
All right
Flowmaster 925 four months ago before his plastic surgery. He looked like Theo Vaughn. You did look like Theo Vaughn
What's a Theo Vaughn? Who's Theo Vaughn has a podcast Shane knows who he is. You look nothing like this guy
Wait, let me see. Let me see. Here's a mullet. Here's a mullet, but he has like the same nose you used to have
You stand
If you had his hair parted down the middle
Yeah, yeah the center hair part. Yeah, this one could be could be I'll take that. I'll take that. That's a compliment
There's worse things to be compared to yeah, Theo Vaughn's a good looking dude. I suppose
Go ahead next uh Dan Bowman three months ago. You think Becky spent the whole 29k on more coke
Oh
Becky looks like she did a mess a whole mess of coke. I don't I don't she never did coke when she was really that no
I find that so hard to believe. I mean she may have that not with me. I don't know the 29 grand. What's 29 grand?
I don't know. Where do you say 29 grand? I don't know where you got it from
I did cash a check one time. I think for 29 grand
Maybe that fell in the story. I somehow I don't know everybody wants Danny to take a swig from the jack daniel's bottle
From the jd bottle. Yeah, okay, straight up the bottle. Do you want to give any money for it?
No, but they're dropping a shit ton of sun emojis. I'm gonna drop five bucks. I'll take a swig somebody drop five bucks
Take a swig
What the heck?
He's a jukebox. I'm not a you don't play for free. My name's not shoenice motherfucker
All right next one. I got one from
Ben
Lichenovsky
Will matt ever release merch a shirt that says you're assuming i'm gary sullivan
Yes, that's a deep cut
That would be a really good one
The next uh merch line should be matt cox merch line. Yeah, we could do a whole merch line
You're not doing that. Look at him. He's like he's thinking how how can I make more money?
Yeah, how can we get collaboration t-shirt one one collaboration run and we'll put it off
We'll give you all the proceeds, huh? We'll give you all the we'll donate all the proceeds
That's not what gary sullivan to gary sullivan
As soon as we figure out a search
That's fucking great. Yeah, that would be
Oh, here's another one. You know what was becky a freak
Who is becky? Which one was becky becky was the girl in the first story the bonnie and james mckay
The bonnie that went on the run. Yeah, she was doing short blonde hair. Yeah. Yeah, people would buy it
Typical what becky would look like short blonde hair. Look like she did a lot of coke
People are into the merch
I probably could do I should do and I've had multiple people say you gotta do a merch account. You gotta do a merch, you know
We can do it
Yeah, no, I listen i'm this it's too much listen
this guy
Really? I mean honestly, I seem surprised. I yeah, I I don't know. I don't know
All right, I guess I I guess I'm I'm naive
He seemed the first night we did the one podcast and we went out
And and we went uh, we went somewhere in eight
He dany when I walked away. He was like that. I remember everybody was like, so what was that guy like, you know
Who said that just people were you know stacy or people that had watched it like so what was dany like?
So what was he like was I was like, you know, he's really just a nice guy like he started concrete
Like I kind of thought he was kind of jerky kind of like a jerk
I said, but he's not he's really a nice guy and he he started this whole thing just because he wanted to give people a
uh
Of platform to tell their stories and you know, it's like it's not even his full-time gig
He just does it because he likes it. He really enjoys it and this and this you know, and then you know
He ever since then I slowly my first impression was
He really built him up. Yeah
Then it's like, you know, it's all downhill in there. Wait a minute. We had somebody donate some money for you to take a shot
How much money?
50 and okay
The hell's a n okay
It's okay for you to take a
And it's okay, and it's okay you can do it now
Since you skipped the crab juice
I won't touch my lips to it because I know we're all drinking out of it
All right, Matt
Uh
Brandy dot kitchen. Hey, I want to know what his opinions is on the current real estate market in florida
We just had this conversation. I know that's what I'm saying all this shit is the same shit
Next move on no idea. I read them all I got one from Pablo zero eight three two
What's the best restaurant you've been to on the run best meal
Was there a cheap food snack fast food that you've always went back to even when your pockets were at the fullest
What's your favorite restaurant? That's the question they wanted the people has spoken
No idea no idea. Oh, I mean I there was a place we used to eat at in um charlotte, north carolina we uh beckon I had a
Had a an apartment charlotte, north carolina. We used to eat at a place called the brick
It was
It was great
But it wasn't like a high-end restaurant. I'm not a food. I'm not a food guy. I'm not like it's not like I'm
$150
Going to waffle house. Yeah, bro. I like I love waffle house. I love a good greasy spoon
Yeah, what's your order? I could eat scrambled eggs and bacon for every fucking meal
Damn, right and a fountain soda a fountain coke not pepsi a fountain coat gotta be coke. It's gotta be I I mean I can't come on
It's gotta be you got coke. No, we got pepsi. You think so you don't got a coke
Yeah, um pepsi's there's there's a huge difference. I think big difference. Yeah, that's why it's two different brands
It's gotta be from the fact. It's gotta no, but it's gotta be from the fountain drink too
So you like the fountain better than the can of course
There's no conspiracy, but what if like the the ratio is off at a restaurant? Well, that's turning you off water
Yeah, sometimes. Yeah, and and I and the fact that like I'll notice that
bothers me because I'm like
Are you gonna say something? Are you that prick? Are you the prick that goes? Hey, you know, you know your syrup ratios a lot? Yeah
Can I get some more?
So who do you think has like a perfect ratio? I said consistently
I know I I didn't lose them, but I don't but I just got out of prison. I'm barely a bit
Listen, the few I've only now a few times that's when when I get Danny to
To cough up the money when he peels off. Yeah a couple dollar bills for you
Do you want to talk about start talking about that now you want to open up that can of worms?
He's the one who said it. I'm just having a conversation. Yeah
Want more of these are you rip one off a motto here we go
Brian underscores zamowski
Can you please ask matt if he thinks the fraud was worth doing
He had to do prison time and has to pay it back. What does he think now looking back?
Same old fucking question
Absolutely not not absolutely not worth it. Yeah wasn't worth it. All right. Here's this one
NFC
Yeah
My girlfriend doesn't want to stay with her mom because her mom isn't a good influence nor a good mother
She's 17 and i'm 17
She lives with me now
The mom says she's going to report her a runaway and have me arrested for hoarding a runaway
No human deserves to be taken as a joke
Especially a young lady. How can the mother track us down if she decides?
To and her phone location is off
What how can they get tracked down if her phone's phones off?
They're gonna report her a runaway they're on the run
Fast story
They're on the run
They're on the run. How can they be? How can they live with it? How can they how can they be tracked?
How many months ago was that?
Sounds to me like they only have to hold up and say that it seems urgent
This was uh, 12 minutes ago
It wasn't 12 minutes ago because I I remember that was one of the things I read earlier today
Yeah, it was on the instagram store. It says 12 minutes right here. Yeah, that's why i took the screenshot
Like how can they be tracked if her phone's off?
I don't know
You know all about the fbi tracking phones. They're on the run and they're waiting right now
What should they do? Should they throw their phones out of the window?
No, you don't talk about you're probably watching right now. They're trying to figure this out
And you're reading this question isn't gonna help them. You're just drawing more attention to it
They're not they asked the question track you down through your phone for a fucking runaway. They're gonna fill out
She's 17. Does it matter fbi's not getting involved. They're not fucking they're not popping you off cellular towers
If they're not doing anything like that, they're gonna fill out a police report
And if she gets caught by the police doing something they'll run her name and it'll say hey you're a runaway
Let's you have no contact with the police that you don't have to worry about you. You'll be all right, bud
Just chill out. You'll be fine. Chill the hell out. This isn't a question
But it's a great comment
Listening to this guy read is like watching a drunk guy walk on ice
That guy donated some money
William so cool, could you donate some money so we can send Shane to the burn more more beer 200 pound hat rack
Matt I have a legitimate question
So since you've gotten out of prison
What have you been doing and what would you suggest to somebody else who is trying to take their credit score from
Really shitty to really good. So how do you how do you go about how do you someone like you go about?
building their credit score and creating a
Fucking eight hundo credit score
I mean, it's the fastest way. What's the fastest way to build your credit score? It depends if you have no credit
Yeah, what was your credit? What was your credit like when you got out of prison? I had nothing zero
I got three secured credit cards
And I made the minimum
I made that I really didn't put anything on them like I got secured credit cards
I put up like 300 bucks and 400 dollars and 200 dollars on three different ones
I kept the balances low after six months of making payments. Bam. I had like seven
I think I had like a 730 or 740. Yeah, because
It would have been higher, but you know, it will become higher if you keep them below 30 percent
So you use 30 percent of your balance keep it below 30 percent of the balance of the available balance, right?
Keep it below 30 percent
And then you just have to make those payments and maintain it and the longer you have that credit
The more history you have the higher your credit score will go up 30 percent. Keep it at 30 below 30 percent
What's your credit score right now?
man, I
Right now, I think it's still like seven something like I I had uh, I had listened my car
What do you mean still like seven something because it was up it went up
It was like 740 750 and then it went down like 710 or 750 was it ever eight something no now
ever
Since before after prison. I don't think so. I don't think it it was never
it was always in the
mid sevens because
I was constantly having these mortgages come and go and I buy a car and then six months
I drive it for eight months and trade it in and get another car
So you you're never really having that that longevity longevity longevity that longevity, you know that history
On so the best way is to open up credit cards and just keep making the payments keep below 30 right and right
And then your credit first of all, you don't need an 800 credit score
Okay, the the minimums are like 650 like the minimum scores are like 650 you want to get a better credit rating
Yeah, okay in the mid 700s, but very few people have 800 credit scores
It just doesn't make a massive amount of difference in your credit score
I mean in your interest rate that you're borrowing if you have an 800 or 750 you're underwriting a loan
What's best case scenario for the person applying for that loan the what the the magic what they're looking for
They're looking for someone that has two or three
credit cards
major credit cards
American Express. Yeah visa american express discover right
so
so three credit cards
A mortgage and a car loan. That's like the perfect mix like five. They have like five trade lines
And that's it. So if you have eight credit cards two car loans, you know, now they're like something's going on
This guy's getting loaded up with i'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have to interrupt this
We have to put this on here
Is that bb?
You have a previous call. You will not be charged for this call. This call is from
Brian English. Oh my god
It is made at a federal prison. This call is being recorded and is subject to monitoring
Hang up to the client call or accept dial five now if you wish to block any future calls of this nature
Hello, boy. Hey, you're live on youtube right now
Donny boy, you're live. You're live with matt cox on youtube
Tell tell matt cox where you are right now
I'm at uh colman nice b3. Are you in b3 colman resort? Are you in b3 with the emperor?
Nice
Nice
So
We're we uh
We got a podcast coming up with the emperor of the universe frank amadeo
So tell me what's it like in there right now
We don't
Yeah, we're gonna pick you up. We're gonna make a documentary about him
Tell me what is it like right now inside colman federal prison during this pandemic plague that we're dealing with
Um, there's no going out. No going out
Lock down here. We go to we just let out just to go to walk to get our food to the start from the comeback
Hopefully something might change on monday or tuesday and maybe go to the yard for
an hour
by each each unit by themselves
But yeah, it's been like oh how many days
Ask about the the worst part is what
I was gonna go to the end of the month but now I'm closer to the mic
What's the worst thing about being in there during this pandemic? What's the worst thing you've seen?
There's no fresh air no fresh air
No, nothing crazy in here a couple people just dragged out and but they came back and they didn't have corona
And speaking about corona, I like a line with mine
It's purple and that's purple
In the background. Yeah, that's your buddy
Two of your buddies are here
I think I'm gonna need an orange
apple
With a couple purples and you know, which one?
Yeah
I want to be able to drive a little bit on the way home
I'll let you drive
Yeah, I'll drive and talk has anybody has anybody in colman that's in there locked up with you been tested positive for coronavirus
Not anybody in my unit, but next doors they locked us both down a couple people have gone out. They've come back
But uh
You don't hear from me tomorrow, you know
Come on. Tell me tell me. Well, what's what's going on with the shoe?
The shoe is full. Why is the shoe full? Nobody else
Because there's people who come they don't know they're not letting them out
We have open we have open beds all over our I have five of the beds in the in the bowl
Oh, he's in the fish bowl. You're in the fish bowl
Yep, I'm in the fish bowl
Five five out of ten. Oh, everybody got lower bunks. And what's going on with your roommate? John uh, john
Uh
One still not here
He thought it was at sandals
Hey, you're far. Hey, you're nowhere near ricky tees
You know what ask him if LeBron is doing yoga is LeBron doing a lot of yoga in there with you
Matter fact, he's right. He's right next to me on the telly. No
Wow
The emperor might need to come out do a little yoga with us. What's he doing right now?
Hey, have you read have you read the Matthew Cox story called it's insanity about
Nice
Can you go can you can you wave down the emperor real quick and get him over there?
I can't I can't okay
You can't summon the emperor on impulse like that
So what are the are the security guards the prison guards treating you any differently like what's going on there?
Give me a paint a picture for me
Where's mass you're supposed to wear your mask when we leave the dorm
You're supposed to wear your mask in here. You're supposed to be social distancing six feet apart by all now
That's what's happening. You'll see what I'm talking about when you see me
There's some illustrations
That's what's in your house
So you'll be ready prepped and ready. We're gonna have a you're definitely gonna need somebody else
Hold the cam and
We'll bring a whole crew
I'll bring your buddy. Yeah, we need some people to donate some money in the comments to the
For the commissary here
Johnny apple seed
Remember Johnny apple everybody drop some money for our boys in commissary
Hey, you're talking to you're talking to a couple hundred people right now on the internet right now
If you want if there was one thing you wanted to communicate to the outside world
If there was one thing you wanted to communicate to the outside world right now about what you're dealing with
What would you want to let them know?
No social media and if it gets in here, we're done
If it gets in here
I can touch three people right now from where I'm standing and then I show you the rest it's like
If it gets in here, there's gonna be there's gonna be people dropping like flies
You know, they're trying to keep it out. The only I guess by the only way it's can't get in here is from staff
You know, we don't go out. I really leave the dorm really leave our unit. So how can we bring it? No, no visitation
You know, you can't get over the phone. Can you?
All right, kid
Have a little care package
See you wouldn't want to be a
Huh see going to a halfway house, I don't know who knows okay, I have no idea
That was fucking crazy that that just recently found out he was in prison. Listen. He's new
How long not the first time but he's this is a new how did he go?
Previously he's been in there for over 10 years previously for a cocaine charge. He's been out
But he's a new charge. This was the 90. He missed the 90s
He was in prison in the like for throughout the entire 90s and then he just recently went back for some other charge
So he's only in there for I think a year and a half or two years right now. Okay
Huh
But what are the chances he's right where you were live? I mean that's crazy. Well, you know, I was thinking about the corona thing
They're literally set that up the phones are like this
So you're you're sitting there talking on the phone. The other guy's right here
I mean, you know, there's a phone booth this wide. Yeah, and they're stacked beside
So you've got this much room with a phone. So the other guy's right next to you and his phone
So you're all basically shoulders shoulder
Talking and that's how it is in the in the the cells
Are about double the size is this right here. No, and I've been double the size of this about to here
So they're like six foot by
Maybe 10 feet
Maybe 11 feet with the bunk beds in there. So when you're counting, I mean, you're literally you guys are standing in there
You're a foot away from you're always a foot or two foot away from everybody all the time
So if it gets in there, they're pretty yeah, you
I just always say that that every time if one guy started coughing
Yeah, within three days you could lay in bed and just hear everybody all night
Just constantly
Because you get sick immediately. So you just start to wash your hands all the time
I'd have to you have to sleep with a towel wrapped around your head because people are screaming all the time and yelling
It's ridiculous
Yeah, what do you want a laser printer? No, these are like on a letter. It's like really nice like pictures
Those are the uh, like regular paper. No
Those are made for printing on t-shirts. Yeah, why did you use that?
Are we what are we doing? Yeah, are there any more questions? Are we about to wrap this up?
Two and a half hours
I got a question. Yeah, I got a couple more spin rod. Joe Hanson
Can they repo your plastic surgery and make your hair go back to the old days? That's that's nice
That's nice
Somebody somebody wrote a question
I can do them like that. That's fucked up. Someone wrote a question asking about um
Would I do any more plastic surgery and what would I do? Did you see that question? Yeah?
We asked you that in the last podcast and you said you'd get hair grafts done again
I'd get more. I just get more. Yeah, my hair see-through is too thin
But that's crazy how they fucking slice the back of your head
And
It looks pretty good sitting right next to you. Well, I mean
It needs to be thicker and you have like no gray hair at all. You have like zero
Are you kidding? I have tons of gray hair. Yeah, you have a few in the corners. I guess not much considering your what?
How old are you 50? I'm 50 50 living straight 50 years old ladies gentlemen
So 50 and I would get I think I'd get liposuction again. Really?
Where would you get liposuction?
Just in you know, I just like a little tighten up and I like to get like I get I like to get my jaw line down a little
Little a little from behind the ears. You know, I tighten up a little wet vac under
Yeah, a little little. Yeah a little they they take a
A thing they take a thing and they they like a straw and they
And they suck it out. Yeah
Like cheese the dentist thing that they put in your mouth. Yeah, like cheese
You know, they stick the cheese in it sucks it out and you push the cheese down and just you know
Do you get to keep the cheese when they suck it out? I I didn't I didn't inquire about the cheese, but you saw
You saw a fight club where they were taking the body fat
They were making soap out of it. Nice to have a bar of soap made of like me. You could call like me
Be like that that there's something for plastic surgeons. They can there's some merch. Yeah, matt cox
The fat bag that soap that cox fat bag or soap fat soap fat
Would anybody would anybody listening buy a bag of
Matt I thought we were gonna make it into soap a fat bag
I was thinking a baseball when he's drinking a bag of fat when he's trying to psych somebody out, but
The soap makes much more sense for shipping
Of course
You can't ship a bag of fat. You can ship some bars of soap. Yeah
You want some soap?
Leave a comment
Oh my god
Have we run our course? I mean it's it's oh, you know, I can keep talking. Yeah, I'll talk forever. You want to talk about
I'll tell you what, you know
Tell you what I buy a book that's now that we have some downtime like I have books on amazon
You can buy a book. It's cheap. It's a pretty good book
It's pretty good. It's a fucking great book, bro. Hell. Yeah, it's a great book
You wouldn't know you don't read don't read don't ask
It's uh, it's it's definitely definitely buy a book we got and got to join the channel inside true crime
I got a whole bunch of my stories on
Um, they're podcast, right? Would you that's podcast, right? They're they're narrated
And our books whatever working on some stuff. I got
I got uh
Got stuff going
Matt, what was what was the most favorite part of the whole
The whole deal the whole shebang the whole crime spree. What was like the the one time you're like kicking back
You're like, this is it
This is the omega peak level right here. This is hard. You remember I didn't I sell this when you were on you were
Like overseas, right? Yeah on a yacht. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I remember briefly
It was on a cruise ship. It was on a yacht. Wow. It was a cruise ship and we were in our country
Yeah, it was a cruise ship and I remember in Greece
Yeah, we were going through the um
Mediterranean sea. Okay, and we had been to Greece. We went to Greece. We went to
Italy and we went to Croatia and we were going through the Mediterranean and
We were laying out on the top deck and I remember
The waiters bringing us, you know
Drinks remember I looked over at the girl I was dating. She was like 25 26 years old and just and you were what like 35
37 there's just like a month or so
Smoking hot and I remember she looked over at me. I remember she lipped
She said she said I love you
And I looked at it. I remember thinking fuck no matter what happens. I love this moment is worth it
I mean, I got a ton of money in the bank. I'm got a 26 year old chick. I mean everything's gone. I'm a Mediterranean
Mediterranean sea. I'm just fucking cruise. This is it. This is this is amazing
What this moment's worth it. Is it and I was absolutely wrong about that
You felt like Jordan Belfort. I felt great at that moment, but listen when the after then when the judge sentenced me
I was like, fuck no not worth it. Not sure what I was thinking in that moment
Wasn't thinking rationally
Yeah, she's not calling you. No, no, I never heard. I got a letter. Oh, yeah
Did she out did you give her a credit card? She ever own credit card? Uh, I had paid for everything for her
Yeah, you paid for everything. Yeah, I mean I I had bought her a car
I actually bought her a couple cars
Um, yeah paid off all of her bills when we met paid off everything
Her whatever bills she's running up or just paying and I'll put money in her. I mean, you know
You know
Look at what it's all stolen money. Anyway, right? So
You know, it's it spins like it's ridiculous. Didn't you say, uh,
Jordan Belfort wanted you on his podcast. No the Wolf of Wall Street. I sit. Um, the guy from value payment
They gave me his information and said I to contact him and say that
I should be on his podcast. So I traded a couple emails with his assistant
And the whole corona thing happened. Just like the thing with um Blumhouse the production company
I was supposed to fly out to los angeles
On the 21st of last month because they want to talk to me about doing a series
And we were supposed to fly out there and meet with them for like
Two or three hours
And meet everybody and sit down and talk about the series
And then the corona thing happened. So they didn't fly anybody out. They're like not flying anybody out
And so then we've we've swapped some emails and I've talked to Danny, uh, rothbart is the guy who's uh
With me on the project. Okay. And so I've talked to him the last couple days and supposedly
They want to put together some kind of Skype in the next next week and then hopefully in
A month when everything kind of opens back up whatever I'm supposed to fly in and talk to them
So we'll see what happens with that Blumhouse is huge. They did like paranormal activity
What else they do? What other movies they get out? They get out. Yeah, they just did the invisible man
You know, um handmaid's tale
They do that. They they've got a bunch of they got like four series. I think on hulu and
And uh, and so we've had multiple discussions about wanting to do a series
Where I'm in prison. I like the fact that they do a lot of like smaller independent type movies handmaid's tales do that
Yeah, handmaid's tales. It's great, right? And that grill. Oh, it is so good though. It is
It's it's it's so creepy. Yeah
Uh, oh you gotta you gotta watch that you can't you watch the one or two episodes that's it
It's over. You're just binging on it for the next week straight handmaid's tale. That's why I try not to watch any of those programs
Yeah, they get you hooked on. Yeah, they're made for you to watch them all at once
It's heroin. You can't just watch one. How long are the episodes? I think an hour 45 minutes
It's good. I've been watching the uh, the michael jordan documentary. It's all I've been watching lately
You look good. It's pretty good
It's a series documentary series 10 parts. You haven't seen any of it. That's good. I try not to watch tv
I try every like I got sucked into ozards the other day. Oh, I watched that too
And then yes next two weeks
Every night two hours
Y'all watch waco
No, that was good. Yeah. What's that? That was fucking sick. I didn't watch that. I just watched it
Waco waco about that uh, waco texas church halt in uh, texas
But they flip it and they tell the story from inside the church rather from like the the fbi
Point of view atf point of view that you hear on the news. Yeah. Yeah. It's like about the guy who meant who runs the club
Yeah, david koresh. Yes. Yeah
He's good
He was crazy. Yeah, he was out there
They really focus on his guitar playing in it, which I really appreciate it
The guitars everywhere. He did throw some acoustic shreds. Yeah
There was a scene where he was getting married and while his brides were walking towards him
He was playing here comes the bride on like a sick flying V
Hell yeah, Matt one of the best wedding scenes. Did you watch the tiger king? I watched
One I think I watched two episodes. I've been saying I watched one episode
But actually more I think about it. I think I watched two episodes. Yeah, I just couldn't do it
Everybody's telling me you got to watch it. It's amazing. Well, I mean I watched two episodes and
It's just I mean and I'm not I'm not saying it just continues to get crazier. It's just straight white
It's just just insanity. I'm broke as shit. That's why I love it
but I don't
I mean, I grew up in florida, you know down the street from a trailer park
So I mean, it was you know, we were middle class, but there was a trailer part
So, I mean, I I've been close enough to all the insanity of just
You know drunks and people run around with bare feet and they got fucking
tigers and all that
That's what I've seen it. Yeah, would you do Ozarks?
I loved I love Ozarks is good. It's great. It's great
And I get all these people that keep telling me that like I got friends that will call me
I've had five friends that have called me like, you know, have you seen Ozarks?
Somebody just dropped a hundred bucks. No, come on. Joe la roca
But you got to drink up some crab juice
Ah, that's what I was talking about swear
Wow, pretty. What's to see it?
Some of this to put towards his restitution or at least buy him a few there you go
A few what Danny you gotta get up some of that crab
You left out the last sentence
That says Danny you gotta drink up some about the last sentence
Some selective reading drink the crab drink the crab
Drink the crab drink the crab
This is the only kind of stuff that you're gonna see
Double back because that's good juice. Oh, I don't waste that juice boy. That's who's good
Oh, it's not terrible. It's like butter and gravy. This is the best night of my life garlic and old days
It's garlic old bay and jack Daniels
Fuck
Hell yeah, he's gonna feel that one later. It's like Viagra. It's gonna go in one and come out the other
True later fire up on you
Oh, this is a repeating question, but people keep paying to see it. They want to know about the best fraud story
I know you've already told it tonight, but just give a quick little rundown of it. What's the best modern day fraud
There's any kind of fraud. What kind of fraud would you commit now or like a fraud that you've looked at?
That's where the true crime podcast subscribe and you'll be hearing it
He's saving that way. Yeah, he's saving that that's what that one's going behind the paywall of inside true crime
That's for the next episode
Matt Cox only fan who thinks Matt Cox should have his only fan and only fans
Yeah, drop the eggplant emoji if you think Matt Cox should
Start an only fans
You know how many guys in prison we ever talked to because like the fraud guys always find each other
And I've talked to fraud guys and like they'll come and I'm like, well, what'd you do?
And they're like, oh, I did this and this and this and and you're like, okay. Okay
Well
Why did you do that and then you start talking? I'm like, well, why didn't you do this?
Did you ever think about this and they're like right and then they're like
Fuck I didn't even think about that and they're like
Man, you know, then they start thinking of new ways to do it. We would spend and I don't mean spending
I don't mean spend an hour or two. I'm talking about
Two or three hours a day. Yeah for months. Yeah
And you're perfect. I mean to the point where you're like, how do you get around that?
How do you the big thing is how do you get notified?
That the fbi or whoever secret service fbi picked up on you that they've they've picked up on the fraud
How do you get?
You know, how do you get that tip? How do you get tipped off?
Yeah
And so I mean we got to the point where we're like, here's what you do and you start because here's what they're gonna
Here's how they're gonna start the investigation
So they're gonna do this the first thing they're gonna do is they're gonna go here
Well, if you're that person, they'll contact you and say look it's fbi or they'll walk in or that
I mean, we've literally laid out there
I'm there's got to be like four different ones where we had just you're so bored
Right and you've got picture perfect, you know how many times you would meet somebody that I would meet somebody who's
How well, how'd you get your money? Oh, I would transfer it to bitcoins. I would do this
I would buy gold. I would do this and you so now it's like, okay
Well, now I have another tool that I didn't have before and then you would say, well, do you ever think about doing that?
Next thing you know, man, it's it's there are there are some scams that you're just like
A lot of these guys would do scams in their own names or they would
it would just
What are those?
Those are eggplants eggplants. Oh my god. They were an only fan. That's people who wanted to do an only fans
Oh, there's a ton of eggplants. Yeah
The demand is there. So the market is there. It's all about supplying the man. You got a strike while the eggplant is hot
How much for a matte cox painting how much for
You know, it's funny because I sold one recently this guy's guy gave me
He sent me 350 dollars and said look, I'm gonna send you 350 dollars. Will you do a pair?
What can I get for 350 is what he said? I was like, well, look, I can't do a five foot painting for that
I can do a little painting and I sent him a little thing. I can do this. He's like, great do it
And uh, you know and you know send it to me. So I'm actually painting it right now. I sent you a picture
I think I saw a picture. It was beautiful Graham
Um, the joker. No, no, that that's a finished one. This one's not done yet
I just started painting it and it was a joker
I said, I can do it. I'll paint a joker for you and put a little thing and he actually told me this is
This is the quote. I want you to paint in it. So I'm gonna paint it and done and be done with it
What was the quote?
Oh, his quote was he actually gave me a really long quote
I'm like, look the painting is not big enough to put all that shit in there. So you got too much text
Yeah, it's too much to cut it down. It's gonna be uh, some people just want to some people
We ended up with some people just want to watch the world burn
And so I'm gonna put that and it's the joker. That's perfect for the joker. Yeah
It's a it's a painting of the joker
So how much it could be look if somebody said, hey, look and I've got another guy said, you know
Um, I'll give you 500 bucks for something. I haven't done it yet. Yeah, but I would for 500 bucks
I'll tell you look. This is what I'll give you. Yeah, you know most of the paintings I sell are like
750 uh, I had a guy the other day do one that was like
Um, 1400 and I but two it's gonna cost 200 bucks to send it to ship it to him. Okay, so
um
Usually they're like 750 850, you know 650. I've had some guys that have been like 500 bucks
I've had a bunch that were this 500 bucks. I mean
You know the problem is it takes time. Yeah
and you know, so it's
the reason I like doing is that
I can do the painting and I can answer comments and I can answer emails and if
Davey needs to talk to me for an hour
I can do that or if I need to set up a Skype or
Talk to somebody some producer that's like wants to that's looked at some of my stuff and is saying hey
We're thinking about this. You know, can you do this? Absolutely
I can do that in the middle of the day if you have a job if I'm working at FedEx
I can't tell my boss. Hey tomorrow. I gotta I gotta at one o'clock
I gotta talk to these guys for an hour and a half. They're gonna be like
Bro, no you're loading boxes. That's what you're doing tomorrow
How do you get through work on the construction site when every Thursday at 11 o'clock in the morning?
You have to log on to the supreme app on this to the supreme app
I thought you said the Priya app and cop the latest drops
How do you tell your boss? How did your boss deal with it at 5 o'clock in the morning? Yeah, but every 11 o'clock. That's lunchtime
11 o'clock's lunchtime. Hell, yeah
11 o'clock's lunchtime anyway. That's perfect. Okay. That's my question because every every thursday at 11
Me and Luke we're talking about it every thursday at 11. You're always cop and supreme always got it
So we're wondering like what if you're what if you're like mid-poor? It's preset the day before
Everything's ready to rock and roll. So you tell the boss. It's ready. You tell the boss the day before
I'll tell him nothing. You don't need to know just presets. You are the boss phone nowadays
What do you mean a presets on your phone? You have a bot that automatically cops it for you?
Yeah, there could be things like that
Might be fraud. I don't know could be fraud have another gummy kid
That's more crab
The crab looks tempting it is some tempting crab
Oh god, what were we talking about?
Who sent that what was that about I'm sorry that's that's this guy that the guy that wants to produce the other show
He's saying that this is good. This is he doesn't like the background here. Nobody likes the background
It's your mom. It looks like you're in your mom's basement and first of all and all the great look
It's a horrible color combination. Nobody looks good anybody with olive skin looks horrible with the with these colors
I look horrible. What kind of colors what colors if you had a fine arts degree, what would you say?
Matt what would you have fucking ed hardy in the background of your podcast? I don't know who ed hardy is who's that affliction
What would that come out during the year 2006? Yeah, that was locked up for that whole 2019. This is ed hardy
Oh, okay. Yeah
Okay, that would be sick on that one. Yeah, that would be pretty cool
see
Listen anything would be better than this. Matt. We were going for it. We were going for like
An old
80s 70 60s 70s
Uh
Psychiatrists and you achieved it. It was what you were going for was wrong. Really? Oh, it was fucked up from the start
You know what I liked before the the one we're fucked before we even started the big. Yeah, I didn't like that
Why it looked more professional. It looked like you were in a studio. Hmm
Yeah, it looks like some fake-ass news shit. Yeah, it was whack. It looks like we're uh, yeah, it looks like we're uh fake news
Fake news looks like we're a fox news
Looks like we're fucking cnn or bay news 9 or some shit matt. We're not trying to be futuristic here
Plus we have god creating man, and I feel like that's what we're doing here
Yeah, okay. Well, that's fun. But what if it was like two crab claws touching each other? Oh
That would be cool
I wouldn't I wouldn't mind it matt. Could you get use your degree and make and turn that into crab claws?
Could you use your degree and turn that into two crab claws touching?
Can we get a crab sculpture?
Wow
All right, I'm gonna just read another question for the shit of it. This is ricardo villar
Here's the thing though. I love this guy
He he really didn't go into it trying to rip people off like Ponzi schemers who actually ruin many personal lives
This guy just robbed banks with a pen and a degree in fine arts
Is he a scumbag sure
That's probably the best that's probably the best one you've read. What's the best kind of scumbag the kind that ripped off insurance banks fuck them
There's no uh, yeah, there's no question. I like where his head's at. That was a good one
Oh, man, I'm drunk on crab juice
You realize it's it's almost three hours
Is that too long for you that time? No, I'll keep going but you know
We gotta somebody needs to should we wrap it up. Let us know in the comments
The the crab juice is talking at this point. We'll sit here and fuck her and fuck around for another hour
But I mean if you guys are getting bored, we'll sign off. Yeah, you gotta you gotta come up with some come up with some decent
Questions so we can actually move for not common. Do you want a 50 milligram? I don't know what that is
I feel I feel like I'll I feel like we'd man. It's called a turpicana
I feel like I will fail my urine 300 million definitely fail any test. Yeah. Yeah, I can't I can't Clarissa's
I'm sorry. Grab me a bl will you?
I can't yeah, don't uh
Yeah, yeah, break it
There's some more jd here if you want some jd
No, yes. No, maybe so, you know, do they get too close to my mouth hole when I was too crabby at this point
Oh
People want you to keep going. Are you do they really? Yeah
Keep going. I got another question on here. Not really a question, but
Max more three months question max three months ago. Like what they call me michael. Where's michael cox never
Michael cox a lot of people didn't call you michael cox. Yeah, people want to know where the money is
Oh, yeah, I've heard that one. Where's the money mat that one? I wish that it's in his hairline
Nice, what's the uh, all right, this guy says max
I work at a bank and we don't do that kind of stuff unless they have a debit card
They can either enter a pin on
The id is legit and matches records and they can answer as many questions as I want them to ask
I don't understand what that is. I don't either. That's not even a question
That's what I'm saying man. Danny printing this shit for me to read on purpose. I think dumb shit
That's why you're reading it
Couldn't even got the good ones
Have you ever been a victim of fraud? Oh, yeah, I saw that one. I saw that one. Have you ever been a victim of fraud?
honestly, great question have
Have I you know, I mean stupid stuff like one time. I don't even know if this was fraud is like one time
Like I don't know what was like 40 or 80 dollars or something came out of my ATM
And an ATM that I was nowhere near that was like across the state wasn't mine. It was just like I think it was a banking error
I mean, I've been burglarized a few times. I've had some houses broken into
actual fraud the only thing close to fraud for me, I think
Is that recently I tried to file my taxes through like turbo tax and they said someone else has already filed taxes using my social security number
Somebody got your social they call they call that the the drop where they you file for someone's taxes before they oh, yeah
Um, and so I I had to mail in my stuff with a letter to the irs and a I tried but here's what they're saying
Is someone else using my shit? So I sent that off, but I just already got your trump check before you
No, no, I got my trump check. Oh, you got a trump check. Yeah, my man
I didn't get everybody except danie
I went online and applied
Everybody got a fucking trump check except me. I haven't filed taxes in fucking 15 over 15 16 years
How the fuck I went online and I applied I said, hey, give me my trump check. I've never done it
But I but I deserve all the news where they said even if you haven't applied they said if you haven't
File taxes in the last two years. You can still put your info in you can go on the iris and then apply I applied and I got it
I got a hell yeah a couple days ago and I actually actually sent something to my probation officer and said, hey
Am I do I have to pay do I have to pay restitution on this?
We're we're exempting all those checks
Oh, they're exempting restitution during the pandemic. No, no, they're not only no just they're saying the check
Isn't like if you owe 20% of everything you make here saying we're not going to hit your fucking check for that
Nice, so it's like thank god. What'd you do with it?
I paid my I paid my bills. I have that I nothing fancy didn't treat yourself treat myself bro. I paid my rent
You got a red lobster or nothing it paid for gas from red lobster so I could do this podcast
You got the crispy crab
I'm just saying with the trump check. Did you you know something might have went out and treated yourself something nice
I just listen I reimbursed my
All the crap that I had to pay out
It's just $1,200
Listen, I know guys that people are getting like two and three like they got like four kids a wife
That doesn't work and they're getting like three thousand dollars and stuff
Oh, yeah unemployment people are getting like three grand a month something like that four grand a month. Yeah
I don't know about all that
Isn't it three grand a month? I thought it was three thousand bucks a month. Take 600 a week
That's 20 a little over 2400. Yeah, oh close still lots good fucking money
Oh
Yeah, I got another question my goddamn taxes has Matt ever climaxed during sex to Bon Jovi's runaway
That's a good question. That's some that's some hard-hitting questions
dug deep for that
It wasn't from her no no
No, I have not I have not but it's it's it's something I'm gonna look into cool
Look forward to have you ever owned a gun? If so, what kind I?
I had a concealed weapons permit and I had a gun when I had a concealed weapons permit, but that was
Like maybe 20 years. I was I think it was like 24 25. I had a gun
I think I had I had a
I had a
No, I had a 357. Uh-huh and I had a
A
9 millimeter both Smith were Smith and Wesson Wesson both were Smith and Wesson
My girlfriend had a lady Smith the girl I was dating at the time
And then I and honestly I think the I think the concealed weapons permit was good for like two years or four years or something
And then it just expired because when you take that class you kind of realize
I really don't need to be carrying a gun because if I
From going somewhere where I think I should carry a gun
Then I shouldn't be going there right then don't go there somebody just donated 120 dollars
Really?
Come to vegas and blow money with me. Danny better split this with you ps
I just had to one up the last guys
Matt you have a cash app you should have a cash app they could just send you money right now a Venmo
You need a Venmo an only fans. It's an app where you just still get eggplants like your debit card too
People could just send you money or the eggplants for oh the only free
Yeah, they create an only fans matt somebody wants to know if they pay Pal you money
Can you send them a signed book and send it to australia by the way big fan?
I mean I would have to buy I mean I could do that
I could buy that's too much work. They can't well. I mean, you know, I think it they need to buy them
I'm wondering send it to you. Yeah, typically they buy the book and they mail to my p.o box. I get it
I sign it. I mail it back. Yeah, so I'm not sure how that changes that other than I'm doing all the work for you
Right. So you can't ask matt to do all the hard work. Yeah, you can't ask you want the book signed by the book
Send it to him. He'll send it back. I probably honestly stamp on it. Probably should buy like five or six books, but
How often does that happen? I mean tell him look my my email is, you know
Contact matt cock or it's contact dot matthew.cox at gmail.com. That's a fucking mouthful right there contact dot
Matt was taken
Dot wait, what was it? It's contact dot dot matthew.cox at gmail.com
Right and it's matthew with two t's. Yeah, got that
so
for
Never met a matthew with one t
Yeah, really? Yeah, they have matthews with one t. Great question. Never met a matthew with one t. Yeah
Definitely for our book
I don't know. I don't know why but they're out there
God damn 120 dollars. Fuck yeah, that paid for the crab
Straight up. Thank you l.s. Experts. Straight up
We gotta go to bagus with him. I got somebody telling me to fix this fucking drop thing back here
He has his two seconds of that effort
That's kind of regular. We actually have something being built. We have a special backdrop being built being commissioned right now for that
So is it going to be a wall that's like here? No, it's going to be back to where that on the same plane because you want to see the door
No, I don't really care about the door
But if I do it where the door comes like in front of the door, there's not a little hallway to walk behind
There's maybe a little hallway. You just walk around the hallway. Yeah, that sucks. Yeah, that's okay, but then there's like
I'm missing what you're going for here. That's all that's and that's my fault. I don't have your vision
And that's my fault and I yeah, well, you're also 30 years older than us. So it's you can't blame
It's nice that you would throw that out there. You're an old band. So you really don't have the 30 years older 20 years older
You might 20 you just don't understand art like we do I guess. Yeah, what I mean. Yeah fine arts, uh, you know
We're like
We're like
You don't have a piece of paper there you go. We're fine art minus the fine part about it
My degree doesn't keep me warm at night. He and I we're art and and and sam
Sam and sam we're but this is it's art. Yeah. Yeah, it's a different art. This is art
This is art
Oh, somebody just gave you two dollars and wants to know that's great. How matt. How did you use to clean money?
Clean money. Mm-hmm. You didn't have to clean money. Did you?
Well, no because it's coming from alone
Right, exactly. Straight in but as far as like if I
Bar if I think this is what he's saying is like if you if I borrow move it around
Right, if I borrow a bunch of money in the name of gary sullivan
How do I get it into an account where the the government doesn't touch somebody right at that time?
There was no bitcoin and there was no so and I didn't realize I hit I had that I went to prison
I I met a bunch of people so you realize okay. You could have bought diamonds. You could have bought gold
You could have there's ways to launder it. Well, I the only thing I could think of at the time was get it out in cash
Yeah, get out in cash and slowly put it back into another bank account or you could put it in
There's ways to get it. You buy some real estate and just say yeah, I'm paying
Rent is this much and you go buy money orders and you just deposit the money and
So, you know, there's you could buy a house for 40,000 dollars. There's a shithole house. It's going to be worth
100,000 once it's renovated
But you got to put 40,000 renovations
Well, you can put the 40,000 renovations
And you just don't say you did anything
You say I bought it for 40 and I sold it for 100
Well, there's 60,000 dollars worth of money that
You can now say look I bought a house for 40. I sold it for for 100. I made 60 grand
Well, really you only made 10 or 20 grand. They don't know that so you just made 40 grand cash or or you just laundered 40 grand
There's ways to do it like that
But in my opinion, it was like I was just trying to get it out
That's why I would go in the bank and get out like ninth out
I'd open up 10 different bank accounts and four different names and I'd go get
50 or 5,000 today at this account seven this one nine three every couple of days
And then I would direct I put direct deposit money into each other's account
So they didn't just drain they were the balances were doing this all the time then one day they just go
It seems like a lot to keep track of
Well, not really as long as there's money in the you know, you take a cashier's check or you direct deposit here
You take out seven that you put in 30,000 you say oh, by the way, can I get seven thousand a cash?
Sure, no problem that would the balances or
And I would get the money out and then now I've got a fucking
Duffel bag full of money. You just got to put it into another bank. So I mean, I wasn't super sophisticated
Yeah, because there was no bitcoin in 2006. Why would bitcoin or five different?
Well, because then I could just buy bitcoin and then you put it into your electronic wallet
The government, you know, because it's
Because it's encrypted. Yeah, they and you they now don't know where the money is
All we know is he bought bitcoin if you then transfer that money into another bank account
They don't really know where it came from where it came from
Okay, um and where it disappeared to or you could buy gold so they can't track the right
So you go buy gold you go buy diamonds. So I could you go buy
A hundred thousand dollars gold here and go across the street to another gold dealer and sell them the same money
You lose six percent, but
What does it matter right now you deposit it into your bank account or
Or you get a check for it and you go deposit into some corporation or whatever
Look as long as you're paying taxes on it and you can if you're ever audited
They you can say this is where I got the money and there's tons of ways to launder money
But look, I wasn't that sophisticated and wasn't that big of a deal at the time anyway. Yeah, it wasn't that much money and
wasn't that concerned
I don't know. That's that's a
Shitty answer, but that's fine. Someone just dropped ten dollars for your leg extension surgery. Nice
What anonymous american? You are a true american hero
Thank you for your service and we appreciate you being there that hurt
That's just cruel. It's just mean out of nowhere. I don't know. We're just nowhere. We weren't even talking about leg
It's just to do it. This is mean it's mean spirited, but thanks for the money. Thanks for that. That's for danny
Danny didn't and Danny didn't even hear the ten dollars. So he's gonna keep that 10. Oh damn. He's keeping the ten dollars
I'm telling you a fraud. He's a con man. Hey, here's another one
I'll drop another hundred dollars if danny kills the bottle of jack daniels in one drink and matt squirts a bottle of water
In his face when he finishes the bottle
How much is in this?
That's almost half from this angle I thought there was just a little bit
Yeah, that was too much. He ain't coming back. He ain't gonna finish it now
He's probably outside throwing up right now from that from the uh the crab juice. He hasn't been right. He hasn't been drinking the crab juice
All right, um
Let me see if I got one I didn't read yet
People want to know the biggest purchase you ever made the biggest purchase I ever made
Mm-hmm
Well, what we like on why I don't know Monday wise
I don't know like whatever the most expensive car car whatever that inspired car one time
Did you buy like a hundred thousand dollars? What is the biggest purchase?
What does that inspire in your brain for you to talk about like a Rolex or something?
But here's the thing. Well, I mean here's the thing if I buy if I bought a 10,000 dollar Rolex
Well, that's different. That's just you buy one not for 10 grand
I bought I bought like an eight thousand dollar one. I've had a couple of the little that what would be the
ain't nothing the um
Yeah, I've never got like a presidential like a $20,000 presidential
No, what am I? I'm not a retard. I'm not it's just stupid. Um
Like look I had a couple submariners, you know, they're cheap. They're like five six grand
Yeah, I mean that's not I'm not saying that's cheap. I'm saying it's not a $20,000
$30,000 presidential. It's not crazy. It's it's I mean I was about to say reasonable
You know when I see the other day when I was talking and I said I was broke
I only had 80 grand and cash or I had no money guys went nuts like that's not broke you fucking asshole
But I'm saying
So what like a car like I bought a car for like 90 95 thousand dollars. It was an Audi
But it was finance or I bought houses. I bought a 200 and I thought like a
The $250,000 house
You know, I'm not sure those are
It's a tough question because yeah
I mean, yeah, but but is it a purchase when I got the bank to lend me
200,000 of the I only put out 25 grand or 30 grand
So, you know, it's like is that a never went out and bought like something with a big water cash or nothing
like
I'm buying this Mercedes
80,000 cash
Like that no why when I can finance it
It's so easy because it's so easy for me to find you know, I mean like cash off the lot
I wouldn't go buy something for 50 or 60 grand cash when I know I know I can put down five grand and get it financed
No, I because I can I can get it cars houses anything like that anything secure
Right, I can get it by name right not fucking spending 60 grand or 70 grand on a car that I can get financed
right
It's too easy to make some pay stubs and and cover my employment and do a
Fake identity. What do you think about all like the wrappers that go out and spend all the money on jewelry and they're going broke
Trying to prove how much money they they're going broke trying to prove they're rich. That's just it's just complete
stupidity
and anybody who's impressed by that kind of stuff is just
They just they're just uncouth. I mean
The cooth that's that's a word my mom uses
They used to say you have no shout out anonymous american say to people
Drop another 10 what we're talking about somebody just gave you $10 to give me for my leg extension. They actually gave 20
$20
Here's 10 bucks for your leg extensions. Oh my god
I really consider doing that. Listen. I I seriously could I told you Becky
No, I know back then but would you consider doing it now now that you're past 50 years old?
Would you still do it?
I seem so and my arms are so short
I would like to get an arm extension. I would look like t-rex
I would look like t-rex and I'd be walking around. I'd be like long legs and I have these little tiny arms
Can we get Luke to do a mock-up of what you would look like after your leg extension?
I could do the mock-up. You can do the mock-up. Yeah, but luke would do a quick one
I could do if we just put my head on on a t-rex. We can make like a little animation like is in like nba 2k
Your follow me. You could cut this up. That'll be one of your things
It'll be my head on a little t-rex of the arms
That'll be one of your
Thank you. Thank you. Oh my god. There's so much fine arts fucking IQ in this room right now
It's mind-blowing. I can't wait to do that
But we got another one first ball somebody said they'd give a hundred dollars
If you finish the rest of the jack daniels and then matt hits you in the face with a bottle of water
I'm willing the water for a hundred dollars. Hell. No. Yeah, what would it take like a thousand for him for me to chug
The rest of the jack daniels. Oh, yeah, a thousand dollars thousand bucks. You heard it people right? You heard it right here
One thousand I got from megas and then I had to split it with matt
2000
For wow, what a what? No, no, no a thousand. Don't sell it. Talk about it. It's not getting a thousand. A thousand dollars
Short arms and deep pockets. No, I'm like an alligator. It's first of all. You all get the tab. I got it. You already have 80 dollars
Hey, no, wait, wait, wait, wait. I'll get the bill. Somebody give me my beer
My money he's got 80 dollars of my money already. Yeah, yo matt 80 right. Yeah right now keep it on the board sam write it on the board
Put on the board did you hear yourself echo back in your ears?
That's why you
That is gnarly
No, no, that is like a serious surgery do that. No, he was thinking about it, but the girl that you were with like do it
He didn't trust her where how huh? You have to leave the country. No, no, they'll do it here
They basically they can they gave somebody a head transplant
Somebody out of
You're gonna have a new body by the end I guarantee you in Mexico if we get up to like two grand we can extend all for
Oh my god, all right
Matt Cox is gonna look like LeBron James after we're done with his
It's gonna be like 2k when you just max out all this money. Have you think you think LeBron James is spent on his hair?
Have you seen do you know anything about LeBron all that?
It ain't it ain't still going out. I wonder how much you can't hate on somebody for their hair
I'm not hating. I'm just saying if you spent a lot of money for my extensions for like arm extensions
I want the 50 that listen. I need this money coming in for me. There's a money coming in. That's right, man
I'll give it to you. I swear to god. I'll give it to you. What's the tab out right now?
110 you can't add it up. I don't think yeah, it's 60 it's 60 20 and 50
There's a couple hundos in there. Yeah, we got a hundred
But those are for you Jack Daniels. I'll give you something. I don't care. I'll give it all to you
We'll donate it all to Matt Cox. I don't want any of that donation donation all to Matt Cox
The leg extension LeBron Cox. They actually cut your they break your legs, right?
They break your what your shins
The bones they break your shin bones or your femurs. No, no your femurs. What?
What the wait wait wait doesn't this thigh have to be in proportion with the shin?
I have no idea. All I know is they drill into the bone
And then they extend it slowly and the bone keeps trying to grow together
So it they it'll grow together then they break it again. It keeps growing together. They so it takes
Six months to a year to get like a half an inch to an inch or
They can break it and they slide a piece of coral in between the two
Because coral is just like bones made of the same type of there's a certain. Yeah. Yeah same dinty
They did some shit like that in my neck
You got coral in your neck. You put a box in there with a bone to fuse my vertebrae together
fuck
Cut his neck up into the front. Yeah to yeah, because there's a bunch of muscle in the back
It's easier to get through through the you don't look like you don't see any scars or anything
Right here. Yeah, but it's not bad. It could be bad. I've seen people wear the one thing
That still scars me to this day the one video. I'll never fucking forget
The unknown russian soldier. Oh
God dude, that's the I was at your house dude in like high school staking cheese.com. Oh my god, dude
What the fuck that was like the most fucked up thing that was the most fucked up thing on the internet ever
Website still exists. I ain't looking at it. It was a website dedicated to like just gore gore people dying
Or dead people foreign videos
You can find I remember you can find like 4chan before 4chan. Yeah, you could find pictures of daylearnheart like his like
Oh my god, dude. It was so so gruesome. Are you gonna put this back on internet?
Are you gonna put this or is this just gonna be live and that's it or you can actually keep this on so people can watch it
You can come back. No, they're gonna come back and watch it. Yeah, okay. I don't know. Yeah
And then we're gonna make a bunch of clips and funny thumbnails. Oh, yeah, we're gonna. We're gonna cut it up into clickbait
All those times you went like this and stuff. Oh, yeah, of course. I'll be
Oh, so yeah rotten.com rotten
That shit was fucked up
That was a fucked up time now that unknown russian soldier thing is the one video that never left me like it's always stuck with me
Gave me nightmares. It was the most like
Horrifying video this guy. They had like they had like a foot on his chest with this big like crocodile dung de
Serrated knife dagger and just saw it as fucking while he was alive
Yeah, what?
Crazy, but
There's shit like that all over the internet dude like that's like there's the fact there's people that like want to see that
We wanted to see it, but we were like we were like 16 years old though
Maybe that was the fucking audience. Do you think who else is on those websites? Yeah, there were sick fucks
Fucks smoking weed in the pants house the FBI arrested us a whole like there has to be like
I don't know if it's 50 or 200 but any any amount is plenty
Yeah of guys that had paid like they were paying like three or four hundred dollars a month to be a part of a website
Where a father was molesting his daughter
Oh, man, who was eight until she was like 12 or 13 and they eventually got busted
They just busted all these guys who've been paying like 400 bucks a month for like two years
And this guy's like once a week he does a video where he like goes into his daughter's room and oh my
How did you find out about this? There's a whole slew of a fuck in in colman. Oh in colman you of course
Yeah, this guy was in there not not not. I never knew who the guy was no, but there are guys who paid for it
The guys that were paying so I paid for two you like some guys like who's some guy who paid to
500 bucks or 400 bucks for like a year and a half or six months or three months
And these guys are getting like seven year sentences five year sentences and they're like and they would you could be behind them
Like in line
You're sitting there waiting to get your chow and you hear like two guys like this is bullshit
And now I'm gonna pay like $20,000 in restitution to this girl. I mean it's ridiculous
I mean I was only on I only paid for four months and you're sitting there thinking
They're like I didn't do nothing. You were paying someone to rape his daughter
And you're pissed because now you have to it was just like
There's tons of those guys. So there's people that will watch all kinds of weird stupid ridiculous
That is so beyond fucked up
I can't even fucking imagine you ever seen bum fights. God damn
Bum fights. Yeah. Yeah, that was on when I when I was out and I used to watch that and I used to watch bang busts every once
Wow, I'm ridiculous
Or what about do you see back room facials?
No, but I served I served at this beach
Captain stabbin. Yeah
Captain stabbin
What the fuck was that? It's like a dude on a pirate ship boats. Basically
I saw I was it when I was in mexico at surfing at this
The weird secluded beach break and on the cliff was this big mansion and the dude's like, oh, yeah, that was the guy who started
Uh, I forget the name of it now. It was the college girls topless with the girls gone wild
The dude who started girls gone wild
His mansion was on the hill there and it was like
Alison Alison Arnold was in in one of the girls gone wild whatever happened to that guy
The guy, you know, yeah, he he there was the whole thing with him and Paris Hilton and something
Is he free now?
Yeah, I remember seeing someone TV. Didn't he he get in trouble for because some
Well, some of the girls were like underage or something like that. You got busted. I think it was something like that
I don't know. Oh shout out to our sponsor bud light, by the way. Oh, yeah
Shout out to bud light new port puff bar. No, not them. But like do you really have a sponsor with bud light?
Maybe we do maybe we don't
We're trying to we're speaking it into existence. Jack Daniels
Oh supreme
Rumpelmans
Are people still watching this? Yeah, somebody is excited that we mentioned captain stab them. Do you really?
My man
Uh, there's 277 people watching right now 277, that's a lot of people. Is that oh, okay. Yeah, it's a lot
Is anybody in the chat ever heard of fax verse
It's a youtube channel
And the star of the youtube channel is sitting at this table right now
8 million subscribers 8 million subscribers the best place on the internet to find out information and entertainment
You will not be disappointed the best live show every thursday at 1 p.m. Fax fax verse face cts
It was a lot of fax okay fax first. Yeah, okay
And verse we they specialize we specialize in
Infotainment to just let you guys know like top tens about
crazy things that people used to do for hygiene in the middle ages or
10 things you didn't know about paris hilton's shoe size
It's just great stuff that you can tune in learn a lot about and always have something to talk about
And we do a live show every thursday at 1 1 p.m. It's the best live stream show on the internet
That streams at 1 p.m. Every thursday be there
Get in the live chat and drop the kind of money that you're dropping right now
We might not have matt cox, but we got me and that's it and that's all you need is it youtube or is it youtube twitch
It's youtube luke goes on there and he talks um
He like responds to comments and he does like he posts his own animation show that he started
Where it's like yeah, it's like part of it's like really cool
He makes these sick collages where he cuts like people out of like fashion magazines
And he cuts out the mouth holes and the eye holes and he puts his own mouth and eyes
And he creates these sick animations that they're funny as fuck you want to see an episode you should show to him
It's called lambs
It's pretty good
You know who hey, what's the real estate guy that he
Been he interviewed ben you had him on your podcast the oh gram gram. I was thinking
About con I wonder if I don't think he would do he would not he's not up your alley. No, no, no, okay. That's disappointing
He's like I mean he's very it's it's very real estate like what's up guys smash that like button. Yeah. Yeah, he's a youtuber
Yeah, yeah, he's definitely he's super nice guy though. Yeah great guy
Check out this fine arts full screen that thing
I've seen this
Cash
It's a show based on shame
Two stories
Because she has to watch and make these all day
And I'm going out a man gonna lock him up
Listen here, buddy. Those are my bootstraps anybody's gonna be pulling on. It's gonna be me
You got a better chance of grabbing a turn by the cleaning grab my bootstraps
He is right
That's snowflakes
Look at that. He's posting that and he doesn't have a million subscribers yet groundbreaking animation
Groundbreaking making good writing hold on. I pull it surprise worthy comedy
Hold on. What I hit up your boy. What I need right now is a mat cocks fine arts
degree review of what you just saw
Are you walking away from the table? I'm going
Okay, you got a small bladder think about that answer
Are you playing three times? We're about to lose all our viewers
Nobody's here for us. Exactly. That's what I'm saying
You're gonna join him
In the bathroom at the same time, buddy. You more just crab way easy there, buddy. There's my crab
Anyone's gonna be fucking with my crab. It's me gonna be me
Oh, you almost spilled my crab juice. I wasn't even gonna bring the whole thing
Is anybody out there gonna donate some more hair grafts to mat cocks or arm extensions or arm extensions
Or a neck extension
Well, hey, how about the light bulb? The light bulb. We need to get out of wet vac the neck. We gotta get where the second neck
Double neck he needs two necks
What about a dick implant? Has he have you guys touched on that at all?
I don't think anybody's talked about that yet. We should ask him about that when he gets back. Is that a possibility?
Oh, yeah, there's a there's multiple documentaries about that on youtube. I've seen
Multiple
I've never searched it. Don't worry about it. I'm not that I'm interested. It just kind of popped up in my feed
Yeah, that's just spicy as hell
Yeah, it's crispy crab. You never had the crispy crab cross beat crab
That's why I order on my birthday
Where's the crispy crab? Oh, you just got some crab like uh juice on my headphones. You just got three dollars to do another deck hands
Oh, really? That'll cover it. Wow. How much? Thank you, jayme walker. How much three bucks to do
Do other deck hands that'll cover a pack of 305s for shane lee. That doesn't even cover shane's lee beers
You have no idea how expensive it is to have shane lee for the day. No, it's expensive
Are you eating a shell?
I told you he's eating the bones matt the bones
That is it or not?
Have you ever considered getting crab before any rookies?
Have you ever considered getting a penis implant?
um
How much would that cost? I don't know. I haven't looked into that although is anybody in the live chat. I'm sure I should know
Anyone know
um
Subscribe to matt cox inside true crime on youtube buy his book
On the run with the secret service most wanted con artist with a fine arts degree matt cox
Oh my god
Fuck I can't think of anything else, but you eating that crab. I know I'm eating there
It just looks like a huge bug leg
Like it's starship troopers like I love that movie. It's a great movie. It's great. Really? Yeah, you fine arts
Fox you love starship troopers. Are you serious? He never saw it? That's a classic. No, I'm glad we get a great
Finally, what kind of music do you listen to matt cox?
um
Country music really only country
Pretty much. What kind of country they hate hank williams jr. No, like like kit more
um
I don't know who that is. Uh
Kenny chesney. Yeah
The pop country fuck shit
Yeah, what's your favorite movie of all time?
It's uh, I would say why is that funny?
the way he asked it
um
The crab legs be hitting they hit different. Did you ever see gattica?
gattica no
Yeah gattica and probably shawshank
Shawshank really shawshank was good. Yeah, that's that's a class because I never because I remember watching it and just never saw the
Ending coming. I was just like wow didn't you name some of the like the names after reservoir dogs or something like that?
Yeah, yeah the the scam I was running the farming scam mr. Brown mr. Pink. Yeah. There's uh, no
James red brandon green david silver
michael white lee black
william blue
And somebody asked you about that, right? They thought it was funny or something. I thought you told him the story
I'm not told nobody ever caught you on it. I mean, no they no it never came. Well, keep in mind. They were they were all
Separate loans separate places just never overlap. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got you mean when I got caught by the bank
I got caught by the bank. I don't know. Maybe yeah, I was on the phone and the guy I was trying to explain to him
How I got the appraisals jacked up. Yeah, maybe hey his waffle house open. I'm hungry still
All right, they delivered 24 seven. Yeah, it's walking in there. Can you fuck?
They need to open my goddamn shit up open up get us back to work. This is my constitutional right
To go outside and be close to other people and sit in waffle house. Are you scared of the coronavirus?
I want to say no because I almost never leave like I I just say home in paint
But I I do notice that when I go out
I'm hyper visual about a lot of people out with masks and shit. Yeah, it's it's it gets weird and I'm like
so I find myself
being conscious conscious not to touch my face not to do things but
You know which and then I touch my face, but um, you know, like you push the door handle open with your thing
You're this and you're that and it's kick the toilet. It's not like I'm scared with your foot
Stacey has like clients that won't leave the house. Like they're like, I'm not leaving that. She had one client that told her
Um, she's like, okay. I think you're being a little bit. Stacey's your landlord, right? Yeah
Am I a friend of mine? Yeah, and she goes she's like, I feel like you're being going over the top and the woman told her she said
She's I don't feel comfortable talking to you on the phone right now. What? Yeah, she was like and she was that's how nuts she was
I'm not I haven't left my house in over a month. I this I that I order everything. I wash everything
What are you doing? You're fucking crazy here. I mean, you know
I don't listen to the economy what it's doing to the economy and this is just devastating. It's just ridiculous
Yeah, I mean honestly to be honest
Couldn't we just let it run its course? I mean granted
You're gonna lose a chunk of people but some people actually think that this whole thing is made up to ruin donald trump
That's crazy that some people actually think that
I mean, it's not that crazy. I mean, maybe that is true bro. That is absolutely not true
It could be true. Donald trump just cut me a check for 1200 bucks. If I could vote for him, I would vote for him
What if
I mean, I know it's fucking crazy
It seems crazy out there in the universe and we think that it's completely fucking
absurd to think that but
All this aside, what if there was actually some people out there who fucking made all this shit up
Or created or actually released the virus just to fuck donald trump up for some political fucked up reason
Truth bombs that you're trapped over there. You should change your first name to alex
Because you are really
I'm kind of retarded. Okay, the worst thing for donald trump is donald trump and the only thing that's going to prevent him from doing anything is himself
Yeah, totally
Totally, I totally agree with you
But sometimes I fucking get really high and I think about like
I just have this feeling
What if it is that way news or information? I just need this thought that I had what if all this crazy fucking shit?
What if the crazy people are talking about it's easy to ask questions about all that then how do you feel?
Yeah, but but if you are right and then you have to actually explain your thoughts
Have you ever heard now? What do you do now? How do you feel? What do you say now? Yeah?
Have you ever heard shon atwood explain his conspiracy theories about like 9 11 and the clinton shit like
Some of that shit seems so outlandish and bizarre
But it's not that far-fetched but it once he like lays out all the facts. It's true
I mean, maybe somewhere down the road. There will be somebody like that who actually goes
In and finds out all the secrets
And actually proves that this was some big conspiracy theory
Conspiracy theories are like a nice like alternate reality. It's like fan fiction for things that are actually happening
it's easy to like ask questions and
Make up stories about what you think actually happened, but what's actually mean nothing's ever a conspiracy
I think honestly that ever nobody has any idea and things just happen and we're just reacting to it and
And nobody can assimilation. No, no nobody can just accept that things happen
And there has to always be some like huge story behind something controlled. Yeah, it's like oh somebody's controlling
It's like things just happen to be crazy one way or the other
Yeah, but it's really hard to just accept that people fuck up things slip through the cracks and shit just happens
Everything's random. Yeah
Yeah, dan you you just keep asking questions like that have nothing to back it up and then it's like yeah
But you know what like sometimes should be like weird. What about jeff revstein? What do you think?
What do you think about jeff revstein? Do you think he killed himself?
Who knows
That one i'll get on board with that one
That's too convenient
Getting on board with one
He killed himself
Yeah, what about what about el chopo? He ain't getting on now. I don't know. Definitely jeff revstein. There's no conspiracies with el chopo
What do you think of epstein matt epstein? We already asked him to have this
Matt doesn't know look there's people watching this
Matt's a guy who looks good. He's got a lot of plastic surgery
He's really confident and he tells it. He's got a good story. Okay, okay
Everyone everyone is subscribed to the matt epstein. What do you think anything you say really think he hung himself
Why?
I mean because he had a he had a ton of he had a ton of money
You don't think he could have bought his way out of his situation
No, if he would have never let it get that far too much leverage. No first of all, it was too high profile. He's in prison
He hung himself the going from the level
Somebody killed him. Huh? You don't think he was gonna squeal tell the news on everybody
Are you kid? Listen, there's too many people to get into a prison and kill someone is virtually impossible not to have the guards do
It right the guards aren't gonna there's too many guards. There's two and you really think he hung himself
Yeah, you don't think you think it's impossible for that to happen for them to kill him inside there
Didn't you say too many cameras? There's too many there's too many people would have to be involved
I have a question. Why would he kill himself? Why did the cameras go bad?
That's a good idea. Half the cameras don't work. Anyway. Well, what the well, that's a convenient
In general in any prison anyway, tons of the cameras just don't work. That's where my dad went to bad cameras. Yeah bad cameras
That's unreal. There's bad cameras and you're gonna. So you're gonna go get some guard
But they'll catch me going in to do some bank fraud. I bet that some guard making 60 70 thousand dollars a year
I'm gonna how do you I even approach you to say hey look
I know we're gonna you're gonna be on epstein's fucking thing
And we're gonna get you and that other guard billy bob and we're talking to billy bob
We're gonna get you guys to go in and kill epstein. That's never gonna happen. Never. No, it could happen
No, yeah, they're gonna listen. They're gonna be jammed. Well, and then we kill you guys
Then they're gonna kill you too immediately to go and then everything just disappears afterwards and the cameras are bad
There's no case. There's no talk of it
He dies disappears. Everybody's cool. Why do you do that? Why would he kill himself?
What? Well, who's got something to gain from all this?
Maybe killed himself. I don't know. Maybe somebody killed him.
This shit is he's like these people are funny. I bet he ain't eating no snow crab right now.
Yeah, he guaranteed he ain't eating no snow crab
Let's wrap this shit up. What are we doing here?
Are you reading the card? This is just ridiculous. I got a card on the epstein wormhole. Matt, why don't you read one?
Oh, somebody thinks I positive epstein died from auto erotic asphyxiation. He finished before he died though
What about this is that the the recent UFO photos released by yeah, what do you think of those?
Nobody cares because everyone's worried about coronavirus. Would you would you have a real what I ever have a
career in politics
I mean, you would be a great you would you would be a great president of the united states
You'd be a great politician
I'd have to tone down my some of the ridiculous things I say
I don't know you gotta ramp it up. You're nowhere near you're nowhere near donald trump's level. Yeah, but
Yeah, I'm
What a problem he is for himself. I mean that that's the whole problem. It's like the whole narcissism
I love the story you used to tell about about when he got elected when you were in prison
And ever all the prisoners reaction to him getting elected. They were so furious
They were so funny
Yeah, they were upset a lot of well a lot of guys were perfectly happy. Yeah
So but the bulk of them and what's so funny is that the trump administration has probably done more for prison or prisoners than
More for prisoners. Yeah, really? Absolutely
How so
You know, you know, I got time off my sentence because of him because of him
Lots of people didn't I didn't get I was supposed to get something like three months or something not Kanye west
Okay, they're bringing all that people from prison. They are
What what he's eating he's just eating crabs and he's fucked up. He's not even crab. He's just eating the shell
He's just chewing on the shells
These they're shells
Okay, yeah, Donald trump signed one of the bills he signed
The B. O. P. Used to short you about about seven days every year
And so what happened is all these other
Administrations are like, we're gonna fix that we're gonna fix it and they never did
Obama had it had two terms never fixed it. Mm-hmm
Trump comes in within a year or so. He's like, yeah, fuck it. Let's fix that shit
What do I have to sign write it up? Sure. No problem. Boom guys are getting four four months off their sentence six months a year
I was supposed to actually get several months, but I was already in the halfway house by this time it happened
I ended up getting a few weeks. Hmm. I was actually supposed to get a few months
but
yeah, so I mean it's it's
Look, they're they're letting you know, they're letting tons of people out right now because of the corona virus
Yeah, in other countries though in this country
Oh in this one really half the women in the camp and all the camps if you did 50 percent of your time in the in the in the camps
Or in colman, they were letting the girls go
Wow, if you did 50 percent of your time and you were nonviolent
Well, most women have nonviolent crimes. So they're almost non almost all nonviolent. Yeah
So yeah guys are getting out left and right. Uh, also on compassionate relief. He also signed in the second chance act
He he's signed a bunch a ton of bills
Me look, it just doesn't make sense to keep guys
To keep some guys some nonviolent guy give him 20 years and keep him in jail for 20 years
Because he filled out some paperwork and and and you know, some people lost some money and that's horrible
Great get him out. Let him start paying paying it back
Yeah, no, we're gonna give him 20. I feel like they could have like taken you and made you like an intern for this for the cia
Instead made you like a like an unpaid like an unpaid intern for it. Why is it always unpaid? I still have bills
You could have been nobody wants to pay me. You could have been like a what do I want to pay you?
You could have been a you could have been like a low paid intern for the secret service
I mean, I don't have a problem at least you would have been doing something productive other than just sitting in prison
Right. I have I don't have a problem with that
First of all, you realize how much cheaper and then once you've done that for a certain amount of time
You know how much cheaper it is to keep someone on probation that it is to incarcerate them how much cheaper
I don't know. It's got to be significant
I don't know the actual number
But I do know that you know, I'm paying for all my own my own bills and everything instead of the bop playing
It's probably only a couple thousand dollars per year
As opposed to 30 thousand dollars to keep you incarcerated
There's 30,000 to keep me incarcerated in the federal system
It's probably only a couple grand to keep you on probation. A lot of people are saying trump 2020 in the chat
What about we need amadeo 20 when does amadeo get out of prison?
When does he get out of prison? We need an amadeo matt cox bill
No, he's been eating those fucking gummies those hundo milligram gummies and those crab 100 milligram crab legs. Yeah
The crab legs just leveled me back out to plane zero
I'm back to equal. I'm back to when I walked in. There's little there's literally I just started all over there's crab fragments
All over this area right now from Shane eating all those crab legs. You ordered it. No, I'm not complaining. I'm just saying
You paid for all this crap listeners paid for want to share it with all right. Let's wrap this up
Well, wait, we got to find out when amadeo's getting out when to get now. He's gonna do this podcast this weekend
It's calling us soon with our inside connect johnny apple seed. Oh, thanks for calling in
What a coincidence that he calls in how good is that shaman that they're gonna think we planned that but we didn't
It's a conspiracy
That's a close friend
That's an old pal. I got it. I got it. Just gave you 10 bucks. What are you kidding?
Plot twist matt leaves danny and goes to work for uh name. I can't mention
So, look so he gets out um july 26
2028 so we need
Amadeo for president 2028 2028 amadeo for president 2028. That's perfect too. We got to vote for because that's amadeo for emperor
I'm sorry. I'm sorry emperor. You're right. I'm a day for emperor 2028. Nice. That's the way to go
We need shirts and then we need then different shirts with different quotes
All right, we can we can get we can make that happen for sure. That's gotta be that's got that's huge
Thank you. Kyle roberts
Well, we got enough money here for you to like start running and you know
Start a campaign start a campaign get some commercials out get some yard signs going
This has been a great podcast matt
I hope you enjoyed your crab legs and your potatoes and your corn and your boiled peas
It was great to be able to sit next to you too. Yeah, what do you think about luke?
Hang out
You know, it's so funny. Matt. What do you think about me and luke for the first time? I I think luke's great
What do you think about it's a privilege sitting next to him replacing can hat rack with luke. Yeah
What do you think I have yet to have him not get fucked up the whole fucking night?
You know, it would kill every time we do a podcast you always make sure that he's gonna be here
Well, we I need we need a sounding boy. You're you're you're too
You know pencil protector, you know, you're he's a little rigid. Yeah. Yeah, you're you know, we need somebody to kind of be like
Hey, what's um, he's like I prepared for this. Here's my questions and let's answer them
Chaining never prepares for nothing
That's the worst part
You know, he's just killed it. It kills. Yeah, he's yeah completely unprepared. It kills me the the whole
The whole sitting next to you
Um, somebody call somebody you'll send me an email or something and be like, hey, man
Can you okay, you know, and I I'll swap a couple of comments and then I end up talking to him
Bro, it's so amazing to be talking to you and it's so this is and I just feel like
I'm just some douchebag that just got out of fucking prison
And you're like I'm like a huge fan of and I and I emailed this crazy
I emailed this dude and he responded to me right next thing. I know I'm an internet superstar
That's that's Danny. Danny made me an internet superstar
How's it feel any and he has no problem taking complete credit for it
And all the money that's been given in the chat
Yeah
And you've been on blad tv you've been on uh, what's the other one value tame it
Bubba some
Some some rich weirdos flew you down to the Cayman Islands for like an interview with Puerto Rico. Oh, sorry
Get right
Some some fucking rich dudes flew him down to Puerto Rico to give like a two hour seminar
And you know what happened? I didn't tell you this this listen. This is
I think it's serendipity right serendipity
It's where it's like wow
It's like everything literally a couple days before that I get a phone call from someone who says how much they pay you a
Thousand bucks no, uh
It in Puerto Rico. Yeah 1600 and the plane ticket and I stayed over at night at a very nice hotel and they were great
Okay, so but this is the cool part listen to this
The cool part is this is that a couple days beforehand. I get a phone call from somebody saying hey look
I know
This this lawyer. I just met this lawyer. Did I tell you this everybody knows him?
I don't think so no
Okay, so here's what i'm not gonna stop this time
So what happens is the lawyer I know a lawyer entertainment lawyer. I tells him I told him about you. I checked it out
I read the whole thing. He went to the website. He checked out the website
Then he called somebody that he represented. Okay, great
So they talked to this woman named ann and she's a producer
And so he goes she wants to have a meeting with you. She's checked out your channel and all the stuff
She wants to talk she does a bunch of movies and I said, okay, cool
And I go what he like wink and she talked to you and I said well
She can't talk to me on tuesday or wednesday whatever it was I said because i'm going to portorico and he goes
You know what she's in portorico right now on the netflix lady. Yes
And I was like well, i'm gonna be important. He goes so she's in portorico right now
Where are you going? I go well san juan. He goes
Let me make a couple calls. They make a couple calls next thing. I know they call back
They go she can meet you in portorico. She's gonna be there anyway at that night
She's shooting all day and that at that night. She can meet you so I go and I meet the guys
Right, they pay me the 1600 bucks. I get into an uber. I then go to san juan. How do they pay you?
Uh zilla zill
Zell zell. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, like chase quick pay. Yeah
So then I go I get an uber. I go to the uh vanderbilt hotel nice fucking hotel while I could have lived in the bathroom
It'd be the nicest fucking planning. It was amazing
so
I meet with her. I spend three hours with her and that's where I met the guy
kevin um
The guy from entourage kevin, uh, I don't know why can't I say what's his name kevin connelly
Kevin connelly. He plays e in entourage. So I I meet him. He's there. I meet her. I meet uh her the other producer
We talk for three hours
She and so we talk for like three days. She's super cool
And so we have dinner and she ends up saying look we're gonna look over your content
I I like you. I like the content that I see it. I definitely think we can do something
I'll be in touch and I was like, okay. I don't think much of it
So, well, you know, I don't think anything's gonna come of it
So what ends up happening is like two weeks later. I sent her a text and she says, oh my gosh
We were just looked actually yesterday. We were gonna call you and we looked over your stuff
I needed to call you I'm so glad you so I get on the phone
I talked to her a couple times a week later
I talked to her she hooks me up with this other guy
And with this guy from zero gravity and then zero gravity comes in they say look we want to represent you on these two stories
And we'd like to manage you
And that's where I'm right now
We've had a bunch of phone calls and I'm supposed to sign a contract with them to manage that stuff
And you only got to pay us $5,000 a month. We take 30% of all the money you make
Nobody's paying. Nobody's paying. It's none of it. It's none of that's happening. That's the only thing
Um, so yeah, so it that was a great that was a great trip. Oh, and that's that's uh
I think it was thing. I think those like producers are so weird. It's such like a thing of the past
Like to be like a net oh my netflix producer. Yeah, let's meet let's go have lunch
It's netflix we can talk about our our new series that we're going to produce
You know sign a sign a shopping agreement with us and and we'll try to pitch you to hbo and
You tell me that if you tell me that if a producer from netflix or from blumhouse came in and said look
We want to turn your thing into a this we wanted you to be like hey
I'm enough with you. I'm not interested in netflix series
I'm danie and i'm doing my thing and i'm not come on you'd be like well, let's talk about well
Let's think let's look at this from a different perspective. Okay. Let's say that this is actually a successful podcast
Let's say let's pretend this is
Let's pretend that okay. Okay. First of all
Somebody just drop 90 dollars wait somebody just dropped 90 bucks and says danie has to eat one of shane's old crab legs
So hang on i'll pick up a shell. Hey pick out pick up a shell. I'd like to make a point
Yeah, pick up a shell. Ain't no meat left in there boy. No, fuck you. Fuck the refund you're 90 dollars, bitch
Let's pretend. Uh-huh that this is a success a successful god damn jack daniel some crab legs
Goddamn you was that cow roberts who gave that 90 dollar. Yeah, oh you fucking come on man. You got at least nibble on one nasty
Yeah, at least like pick it up
If you can convince miss sniffing to come on the podcast, then i'll fucking i'll do it
Oh, there's some meat left in that leg right there. I'm not touching that leg. Just put it up to your lips
Let's pretend that this is was as a
Successful podcast on youtube
It'd be successful if you had some crab legs in your mouth. Let's say that this was for example
A joe rogan style podcast that got every episode got a million views, right?
Joe rogan have a crab. Why hasn't he taken a deal with netflix or one of these things 50 million dollars a year
Dot dot
There you go. He didn't sign the deal with the devil. He makes his own money
He fucking creates his own content. He owns everything that he does. He has all of his own subscribers
He doesn't have anyone wearing a tie. Tell them what the fucking do
I understand, but you you you think that that's what's gonna happen here. It's not that i don't i'm not impressed
The point is it's not gonna happen here
It happened with it. It would happen with someone that was on his level
He controls everything he does, right?
He's not gonna have no one like netflix can offer him anything that's worth anything because he may fit if it was joe rogan
And he made
Sorry, it's another conversation. Joe rogan and me he made a hundred thousand dollars a year and netflix came in
I think he'd take it
Yeah, but the point is they wouldn't offer him that if he was only making a hundred thousand dollars a year
Because he wouldn't have enough viewers to make any kind of difference on netflix's fucking scale
On their meter it wouldn't it wouldn't do anything for them. Why am I not am I not understand? Is this me? Yeah, you're not understanding
You're completely missing it. I am I am missing it. You are you are i'm saying that you have an opportunity to have a netflix series
God knows what they're gonna pay you god knows the exposure. It's gonna be it would be amazing exposure
It could probably be a great payday. It might run for 10 years
Look, I think it's cool for people that made the tiger king documentary because they spent five years
Filming and producing something that never got never saw the light of day, right? Nobody saw it
But for example, if you're someone who's creating stuff that's
Being published all the time and you're kind of like building a brand and you're building an audience
But you're are you building that brand to ultimately?
Kind of go to the next level or just continue on. Yeah, definitely go to the next level. You're always trying to go
You're always trying to go to the next level is the next level. What the next level is
Just the next is gaining more of an audience gaining building a stronger brand
That's the next level is just constantly trying to grow what you have
And make it stronger and make it bigger. So if someone said hey, we like what you've done with with uh
And
Deck hands with deck hands and we're thinking about taking some of those characters
We'd love to turn that into a netflix series about guys with alcohol problems who work on boats
And we think that'd be great and would you be interested in working with us on some type of series you'd say
That's different. That's different because deck hands are like a one-off series that we did deck hands isn't like
This show
Well, okay, let's let's not say this show because this show isn't me. I'm saying in general
Me going and trying to do something where they say look we like your story
We like to take it and turn it into a series. Yeah. Yeah, I get what you're saying. I totally get what you're saying
My point is that I think that the whole like
Net like like I'm gonna meet with a producer of a of a tv network like
To go talk about pitching a new tv show. I'm like that's a thing of the past
That's something that is not gonna last that much longer because people I feel like the future of this kind of seems seems like it's doing
Okay
Yeah, netflix is definitely doing. What about hulu? They're are they doing all right? They're doing all right, right?
Uh, yeah, they might be my point is that people are making their own content amazon amazon is going on. Oh, no wait
No, everybody in the strike today
Amazon how much money are they making off of their
Content that they're purchasing. I don't I don't know but I know that if they're willing to dump, you know
A billion dollars or half a billion dollars into content
Is amazon what like the third biggest company in the fucking world, but I have a space program
And a content program. Oh, yeah, they're stretched a little thin if they're building rockets
Maybe they're gonna spend some money on content. Matt. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Let's spend some money on like a cartoon
And these space rockets
You just don't dump money that you're gonna lose you just don't do it
You don't say hey, you know, we've got a trillion dollars. Yeah, let's go ahead and throw away a billion
Why well because we're like that. No, you still have shareholders. You still have to answer it
You're supposed to be making decisions that are
That are furthering your agenda. Yeah, so you can't just piss away money
You're a public company and you have to you have billions of dollars. You're accountable for right you have to hedge your bets
In some one way or the other you gotta you gotta not making bad this they're doing like this makes sense here
Now do we lose? Yes, we might end up losing but ultimately we think we're gonna we're gonna make money at it
So they're not saying we're just pissing away. They're buying it. They're thinking
There's some science behind it that says it's going to ultimately pay off and they're making programs
So I'm saying they are making programs. I think that netflix and I think those types of series that are doing it much quicker
I think what's dying off is movies
Hollywood is dying off. That's what I was getting out of those companies. Yeah those companies that
That way of thinking. Hey, we're gonna spend four years putting together a movie
You know, I mean times they've optioned the that that Rolling Stone
Magazine article three times. Yeah every 18 months
It's been four and a half almost four and a half years that they've been optioning this fucking thing
You haven't made a movie yet
Are you serious netflix would have had the movie done in six months matt?
This is a four-hour podcast. It's not my fault people are still asking for more in there, too
People are expecting something from you. Danny. Kyle Roberts gave 90 dollars and you haven't done a goddamn thing for
Not a fucking circus monkey, Kyle
That's great
You got to do something for him. I'm in the middle of doing a live podcast right now
Look, why don't you do something because it's not my show. Yeah, I'm only the facilitator
You're a quarter of the show right now. I am like an eighth of the show. No, you're one quarter there
No, actually no, you're 20 percent
You're 20 because Sam is part of this throw. Sam is 20 percent even around here. There's five
All right
How many subscribers do you have on what eight million?
It's eight million. I know you're joking. No, it's eight point two million wait with the with the mouth thing
Yes, no, no, no, that's a different channel. Oh, okay, but he shows the mouth thing on the live stream
Fax verse everybody go check out fax verse. Oh, yeah. Yeah fax verse fax verse
There's days at one you guys are gonna love this out your boy
eight million eight
Million you do have a cool little robot. Look at that robot. I like the robot. It's nice. It's simple. It's clean
Make thumbnails that cocks approves of the robot design. Look at that thumbnail. That was done on do it to you
I do is everybody the robot was made on fiber
It is amazing that you can mock your your subjects and still get content still get them to come back
I'm shocked every time I see one of these fucking things what that's the any that you've apparently you've done
I see it and I go. Oh, that's it. This motherfucker's gone. We're gone. This is rock bottom
Like this is rock bottom, but there is always
Lower to go. There's always you can always go lower. You think basement, then you think next week
Bunker, then you think no way septic tank. Yeah, I'll show you what they did today
Oh, the shithead super pumped about it was about
Uh 20 gross vintage hygiene trends. That's what I'm doing my fine arts degree
Look at that
How did you not click on that?
Watch me
Wow
That's just
I'm sorry. I don't have a degree
So I'm not making sculptures. Yeah, it is
I'm sorry. I don't like I'm sorry
I don't like waking up at 7 a.m. To have some uninspired fucks making pennies trying to tell me what to do with my life
And teach me things teach me bullshit
I don't understand what was that about. Hey, where we going to that school school
Teachers
Did you have a good time getting your degree? I met my wife in school. Okay
the same no
That is
Um, I had a great time in school. Yeah, it taught me how to think right. I was gonna say you there's there's a lot of problem solving
There's a lot of you know, I don't know how to think
It taught me how to think and how to use photoshop and how to that's I learned photoshop in high school, mr
Barre regardless never learned
Regardless we're all sitting at the same table right now. Yeah, that's true. We're all equals
Sorry, mac cox. You gotta come down to our level. Seriously. I what do you mean? I'm not at listen. Don't I listen
I want my 112 dollars or whatever. Yeah, what's the fucking buck fit me?
I need those leg extensions. Yes, you do. We're gonna need the four
We're gonna make a document if mac cost can get his leg extensions
I will do everything I can hilarious to contribute to that and we will make a full-on documentary
10-part documentary about mac cox getting his leg extensions. What if you got a bunch of legs and you looked like a crab?
You could I'm sure you could do a I'm sure you could do a mock-up
I'll get some mock-ups. We'll do a crab a lobster a crawfish
Uh, shit. We'll even do like a sea slug
A dolphin you ever wanted to be a manatee. What about robot legs? Would you ever get robot like like uh terminator legs?
Drop the legs off get fucking cyborg. Stingray. Stingray. Yeah terminator eye. If I get back to the gym
I'm gonna look like I have fucking uh, those skinny robot legs
You should get a terminator eye, but instead of like finding who to kill it finds who to scam
And like when it tells you their bank balance their credit score
Oh my god, they're so cheap
The ultimate scam
We deserve each other yeah, we all deserve each other
It's time to end this shit. We've hit we've hit rock bottom. This is pretty bad. There's you can always go lower
Let me push the envelope every time. Oh Kyle Roberts just
How I did mr. Jewel, but spelled it jewel. That's how it is spelled
That's how you spell his name for real. It is j u u l
I swear to god
Mr. Jewel Mr. Jewel. That's where I learned how to use photoshop in his class
It shows
Fuck off. That's where Danny got his art degree decent
You know how to open it
He's a photoshop snob
All right, well, it's been fun. I can't I have been real. It's been fun, but it ain't been real fun
I've had a great time. It was a great time. Honestly, sam. You had a good time
Thank you. Shout out to sam aka stink lines for running the camera switcher stink line 69 holding it down on this podcast
She completely crushed it. She did a great job
And thanks to matt cox for coming in here and sharing all his amazing knowledge and wisdom on fine arts and and real estate
Where did the time go and bought and buy a book shark in the housing pool and
What about uh, uh, follow subscribe the program smash that like button inside true hit up your boy on only fans inside true
Crime only fans.com gotta join inside true crime gotta sub it out
So I leave a comment on this after it's done
Letting us know or letting matt know how much you want him to create his only fans account
Because that's gonna pay for his leg extension surgery. I pay to see that
And on top of that we all benefit from the leg extension surgery matt cox benefits because he gets taller
he gets to look more like lebron james and the whole entire youtube universe benefits because
Us three are gonna make a documentary about matt cox getting his leg extensions
You can imagine if like suddenly that was like 40,000 50 thousand dollars came in and you guys come to me and say enough
Seriously have to do it. We're gonna do it. It's not enough. You're gonna do it, right? I don't think it is
It's got depends what country you get it done. Yeah
We could go to fucking peru and get your legs take a road trip
That's probably 10 grand. Do you understand you have to be a mobile you have to be like just station. Don't worry
We'll get you a live cam you can't do anything
We'll get you a live stream instead of somebody take care of you. I'll take care of you right here
Matt don't worry. We'll take care of you. Thanks everybody. We appreciate all the love and support
Hope you like the crab as much as you did the crab was delicious. Thanks stink lines. Do us all a favor and end the stream
You
