I want to take a step, a step, like a lateral step real quick from what we're talking about.
When you, you are in the trenches of brutal combat, running through caves in Afghanistan
or jumping out of helicopters and you have, yeah, like, all the SEAL team guys did that
stuff.
And, and you have your night vision goggles on in the middle of the night and you're running
through a blast, someone who blasted a hole in a wall.
You said that you felt like you and your fellow SEALs were just souls next to each other fighting
against other souls and you, you felt disconnected from your bodies.
Yeah.
Can you, can you explain to me a little bit more what that means?
When you describe that in words, when you, when you really get into it and you're just
doing that, when you're in the midst of it, when you're in the midst of like, let's say
this is like a football team, let's say it's the soccer team, let's say it's anything else.
When you're in the middle of that crucial, that last, you have 10 seconds left and it's
a tie game.
And then that last play starts and it's only going to last for six or seven seconds or
10 or 15 seconds, whatever it might be, that 15 seconds.
Make that entire episode last for about an hour where you start, time starts slipping
away.
You don't know where you are and whatever's going and you don't, you don't see people
anymore.
You just see movement.
You see things happen.
You see the world expanding in front of you kind of in slow motion, but critical.
Does that make a little bit of sense?
It just, it's a blur, just like everything you just, you just go on instinct and you're
just going and going and you don't really.
So if I looked over at David Goggins, who was in one of my platoons, he was a, he was
a new guy when I was a chief, I think.
Oh really?
Yeah.
So I put him through a lot of training.
He, I'm in his book in a few different places.
I think whenever he talks about the chief, a lot of times he's talking about me in that
book.
Oh wow.
Okay.
I was the one, I was the one in Goggins book that we have lockers, we have these huge
lockers where you put all your equipment and I basically locked all the lockers up and
I made them live out of bag.
So they have a bag of all their stuff in front of this giant locker where they could have
spread out and organize and cleaned everything up and they were living out of like two bags.
I didn't let them have a locker.
I said, no, you're a new guy.
You don't deserve a locker.
You haven't earned it.
And they go, what do you mean?
That's just messed up chief.
Why do you, it's just like cruel and unusual punishment.
You're such an asshole.
Can I say asshole?
Oh, sure.
You can say anything.
Yeah.
They, they caught me an asshole.
It was like, I was an asshole.
And I told them, I said, no, just live out of the bag.
And when you guys have earned the privilege to use that cage and the cage was like six
feet by six feet, had hooks all over and racks and you hang everything up, you can wash
stuff down, spread it out, you can clean.
You can sleep in your cage.
They're big cages.
You can sleep in them with hammocks, which people do all the time because we work so
late sometimes you want to catch an hour or two hours of sleep.
You do it in your cage.
You put your hammock up and sleep.
They're big cages.
When you spread out, they're nice and basically I made them live out of two backpacks.
It was like small.
It's like, dude, you cannot have anything else.
What you need is in those backpacks to organize it, live out of them.
And they did that for a while.
I can't remember how long it was.
A few weeks sucked because every evolution we had to go on, they had to repack them up
and have them ready.
I don't expect them.
You know, let's go.
We have 10 minutes to get everything ready.
Let's go.
And all the old guys walk in their big lockers and put everything and put it together.
And it was easy because you had everything spread out.
You could see it all.
So after three weeks out of living out of a bag for David Goggins, I said, all right,
put everything in the lockers if you want to and organize your stuff and get it spread
out.
Do what you got to do.
And they were like, all right, right on.
I didn't, like two days later, they're all spread out.
It's all good.
I said, hey, we have 10 minutes, pack up, get everything ready, go and get in the truck
and load out.
We have to do a recon mission and we're in the water.
Get your fins, get your stuff.
It's going to be really cold and we got to get an airplane to fly out and do a mission.
We're like, all right, so all those new guys, David Goggins included, they were like, everything's
a bag and they were in the truck waiting in like three minutes.
And all the old guys are going, what do I need?
Wait, we need fins and where are my freaking fins?
I got to do that.
I got to get that.
And the older guys took three, four times longer.
You know why?
Because I made those guys live out of the bags for three weeks.
They were organizing exactly what they needed to have all the extra stuff.
They had a totally organized and ready to rock and roll and a second notice.
All those guys did when they walked in the lockers, grabbed a couple bags and walked
out.
They were sitting in the truck waiting for everybody else.
Where was that?
Where were you guys during this?
That was when I was in SEAL Team 5.
But basically what happens is we get lazy, we get disorganized, we have the stuff, we
have too much stuff.
I have three sets of fins.
So I have to go, well, what set of fins?
What's a mission?
What's that?
All the new guys, they had one set of fins, they had one mask, they had everything set,
they had everything they needed specifically.
How cold it's going to be, what's the mission, what's that going to be?
They knew exactly what to get.
Poop, poop, poop, they're done.
We had to get on a submarine with a, hey, we only have room for one bag.
We pack out one bag to live on a submarine for a week and a half to do these three missions.
And the new guys were like, zip, zip, zip, David Gagas, everybody's ready, they're sitting
on the truck waiting for all the old guys.
Because we had too much stuff, we were too disorganized, we didn't know what to bring.
We were like, yeah.
I mean, it didn't take forever.
They did it in like two minutes.
It took us like 10 minutes.
It took us longer because we had too much stuff.
It was a little spread out.
It was like, ah.
So just get used to having everything in a couple bags, be organized, be ready to rock
and roll.
It's life.
Life is like that when you start thinking about people living in a tiny house or somebody
downsizing or somebody living in a freaking 3,000 or 4,000 foot mansion, you say, hey
man, you're going to be isolated out there.
You're going to do this.
You're going to have to go camping for a week, pack up, you have 10 minutes.
The person that lives in a 3,000 foot mansion has 15 pairs of boots and just stuff all over.
We got a person that lives in a freaking tiny house that's 200 square feet and has only
what he needs.
It's a whole different way to live.
Yeah.
I think it speaks a lot to practicing discipline.
Well, what was your question?
I can't remember.
I don't remember what my question was.
I think, no, it doesn't matter.
I think we were originally, well, originally what I was trying to get at was the analogy
of you guys being souls next to each other when you were out there fighting.
Oh, yeah.
And it was kind of like a flow state where you were just disconnected from your body
and you were just so tuned in to that moment that everything was-
Well, that's a perfect example that I just talked about, was me making all the new guys
live out of the bags.
I said, hey, you're new guys, live out of the bags, learn how to do it.
Did it matter if you're black or white, if you're Asian, Latino, if you're European to
say, whatever you were, did it matter?
No, you're a freaking new guy.
All of you live out of the bags, learn it equally.
When you get to a level, okay, here's your lockers all at the same time.
If somebody wasn't getting it quick enough, then the other guys would help man.
We'd all get up to that level.
And so no matter who you are, what you are, as a CEO, after two or three platoons and
after doing all these deployments, after running a ton of missions, all the attributes
of you as a person kind of fall away because you're all operating at such a high level
for so long, you don't think about, you know, yeah, David Goggins is a black dude and,
you know, Kristen Beck, I'm a, you know, white, I'm a, I am a female now.
It's like, it doesn't, none of that matters because we worked so hard at such a high level.
You don't think about that stuff.
It doesn't count anymore.
What counts is what you've been doing for the team and how long you've been doing it
and what's your position in the team.
You're the quarterback, I'm the lineman.
We all work hard at the same level.
So we all get up to that level.
It doesn't matter if I was a Christian Muslim, if I was a Buddhist, if I was whatever, none
of that matters.
It matters what you are in the team.
You're the quarterback, you're the lineman.
I don't care about any other stuff.
Oh, you're a female.
Who cares, man?
Just, you're part of the team and now you're the, you're the linebacker.
Go be a linebacker.
And if you're not a good linebacker, you're going to get fired.
If you can't do them 30 pull-ups, sorry.
Don't give another shot, but you fail it again.
You're off the team because we can't have you there because you're going to get everybody
else killed.
So that's what was like souls.
That's what I was trying to get at was that all the attributes of you as a person, you
don't see any of that anymore.
The stuff that you see it's day to day in America, the prejudice against somebody for
being black or for being female or being Latino happens a lot nowadays for being Asia, Asian.
So if you're from Asia, you're from Southeast Asia, you're from wherever you're from, you
see prejudice every day.
Yeah.
But when you're in combat, none of that stuff counts.
Right.
And especially from the time that, that you served, what year did you retire?
I retired in 2011.
2011.
From the time that, yeah, from that time when you were serving, especially till now, I mean,
obviously the 60s, there was a huge movement going on, but between then and now, things
have changed culturally as far as like social justice warriors and, you know, the way people
react to different things online and the division of politics has changed so much.
Let's get into social justice for one second.
Okay.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
So social justice, you know, what does that actually mean?
And was it even something that people worried about back in the 1950s?
Heck yeah.
And that's why we had so many movements.
We had so much stuff going on, but I want to relate to something else in a second.
And then think about politicians and everybody's yelling about term limits and they're saying
that we need to have term limits because these politicians have been in office for so long
and they're totally out of touch with the people that do that and that, and so we already
have term limits.
It's called your vote.
Every two years, a term limit for a congressperson, it's already exists now because the guy's
a good congressman or because everybody loves him and they all vote for him.
Does that mean that we as a people that don't live in his congressional district, we need
to say, well, the rest of the country doesn't agree with your congressional district and
we want to go against what they voted for and he shouldn't be able to serve past 10
years.
No, we already have term limits every two years for that guy.
Now, if all the people in our district are voting for the guy, then that's what they did.
And the same thing with social justice.
Do you think we have social justice?
I think we have social justice just like we have term limits for congresspeople.
We vote, we act, we make stuff happen, but the problem is like the social justice isn't
uniformly distributed.
It's there.
Do you know what I mean?
And now is it the right thing for us to systematically or artificially flatten the entire earth
to make social justice equal in Antarctica as it is equal in South America or Chile or
Argentina or Russia or China or the United States or Canada?
Should we flatten all the justice out across the entire spectrum of the world against all
the spectrums of cultural upbringing against all the spectrums of religion, religious freedom,
military, against, you name it, would that be fair?
