What's up, man? Welcome. What's up, man? Thanks for having me out here. Absolutely. Absolutely.
So for people who don't know who you are, give me a brief background on how you got into
filmmaking and how you got into creating all these podcasts.
Yeah. So my name is Payne Lindsay. I've been filming stuff my whole life. In 2016, I decided
to make a true crime podcast and go investigate a missing persons case in my home state of
Georgia. And I just started poking around a cold case and six months into the podcast
there was a huge break in the case. And from that point forward, I basically forged this
company, which is Tenderfoot, and we have 20 plus titles now and a whole slew of true
crime podcasts about a whole bunch of different cases.
What made you want to start creating these audio podcasts? They're like audio documentaries,
right? Yeah. I mean, they're similar to like Serial or like Shit Town, those other podcasts
that go deep into like episodic story breakdowns.
It was actually Serial that gave me the idea. My friend had showed me this podcast. He's
like, hey, I know it's like an audio thing, but I think you're going to like it. And we
were on a little road trip together for the weekend and we were driving back from Louisville
to Atlanta. And we just binged through Serial. And I was super compelled by it. I thought
it was really immersive. And I kind of just forgot that I wasn't watching anything. And
it kind of gave me the idea of me, hey, I think you can make something super interesting
and a deep dive into something through this medium. And that's kind of where the idea
for Up and Vanished, my first podcast really kind of started.
Yeah. What do you think it is about those podcasts? Because they're so fucking compelling
when you listen to them. It's like you can't stop, but you're removing all of the video
element to it. And it's just audio.
I think that because there's a missing visual component, there's kind of like this relationship
between the listener and I guess the narrator or the host, where it kind of feels a little
bit more personal. It feels like you're kind of a fly on the wall sometimes. And if it's
an investigative thing, it feels like you're kind of like right there with me or you're
right there with them. And I think that that is like a special thing that podcasts can
especially do that maybe visual stuff doesn't really, doesn't really do that. It's because
that layer is removed, it kind of makes you use your imagination and it's kind of a closeness.
I think you kind of grow from that.
Yeah, that's a good point. You do have to use your imagination.
Yeah.
Because I remember when I listened to probably like the first six or seven episodes of Up
and Vanished in the last couple of days. And when I finally watched a couple of videos
on YouTube about it, it was not what I had in my head at all. Like when I saw the ladies
house and I saw the glove, it's like I had a completely different picture in my head.
That's interesting.
Oh yeah.
So when you're creating these audio documentaries, do you have to go like above and beyond with
the audio? Do you have to like add way more to it just because it's audio to make it hit
or?
I mean, I don't think that you have to do that. I think that that's the approach that
I've taken because I felt that that was necessary. Like from like a filmmaking brain and visually
forward thinking, I wanted to create a world that was a soundscape immersive that felt
like you were actually somewhere that took you somewhere. And so that's kind of the only
way I knew how to do it. And so that's sort of evolved since my first episode of anything.
But there's plenty of shows that don't even take that approach that are wildly successful.
I think just because the host connects well with the listener.
Yeah, it seems like a very fun thing to do too.
It is very fun.
Because like if you could just go like that's one of the things I love about making documentaries
is just going showing up somewhere and hitting the record button and letting it happen. And
when you get to do that with just a couple of fucking microphones, it sounds like it's
so much easier.
That's me. That to me is the the most attractive part of podcasting is, you know, I love TV,
I love filmmaking, but there's so many components to that. And it takes forever and the film
industry is super difficult. But if I'm making my own podcast documentary, I can literally,
like you said, just go hop in the car, drive to this person's house, press record, and
we're doing something and we're in full control of what we're creating.
Do you feel like you get more out of people when you just have a microphone and no camera?
Absolutely. I think that plenty of people are sort of intimidated by, you know, obviously
a film crew rolling up to your doorstep. That's going to be a little spooky to most people.
It's a lot more, I guess, discreet and sort of disarming if it's just like, hey, like,
you know, let's just sit down and have a conversation. Maybe you'll forget that we're even doing
that. We're just actually, it's just me and you now.
And so you came from a traditional filmmaking background. Like what were you doing for work
before you started doing the podcast?
So I was actually directing music videos full time. And it's actually how I met my business
partner. He actually managed an artist in Atlanta. So for years I was doing, you know,
some pretty like high budget stuff eventually for the record labels. And then I started
getting burnt out. You know, the music video thing to me originally was just supposed to
be a stepping stone to try to make a TV show, to make a my own movie. And I was getting burnt
out as a freelance creator, you know, struggling to make ends meet financially with what I was
doing. And so I kind of got it in my head that I needed to make something on my own again.
And that's when this idea for a true crime documentary came to my head. And I was like,
well, I can't really make that the way I want to. I don't feel like raising money. I don't
feel like half-assing this. And so I was like, well, what if I made a podcast that was, you
know, just as compelling as a proof of concept, really. And then maybe that will grab the
attention from the right people, connect the dots to do the bigger thing.
It's so much different making a music video than it is from making a telling a story, right?
There's like one of my favorite things that got me into filmmaking was music videos. And
that's what I loved.
They're fun.
That's still, if I could think about it, like if I could pick any profession, I would just
want to be make music videos and get rich making music videos. I wouldn't want to do this because
it's easy, right? It's fun. It's like it just flows. When you can put music to some sort of
visuals, it's just like there's nothing words can do to make it good. It's just a feeling you get.
Yeah, it's a short and sweet delivery of, you know, making that song come to life, right?
And yeah, you're right. It's easy to get burned out in that industry because there's,
it's like a big bureaucracy and it's a crazy ladder. You have to climb of ass-kissing and
trying to get more jobs and stressing in between the jobs. And the liberation that comes with
creating your own content and being able to self publish it is very different. That is way better.
It's priceless. I mean, that's like, as a creator, if that's, if you're a creator at heart, like I am,
then that's almost more valuable than anything else, right? Just to be able to create at your
free will and it matter or like be a part of your job or your life in a serious way is like
really the ultimate goal for me. Yeah, me too. When I was, when I first worked in the film industry
working on, you know, various studio sets and shooting documentaries and feature films, it was
just, I saw that this was a weird world that I didn't initially expect because it's all I ever
wanted to do was be a part of that world. And then when I got there, I realized that I'm just
surrounded by a bunch of carnies with dental plans that don't see their families ever maybe once a
year and they're just traveling, they get to travel the world, right? But they're alone. They
don't see their wife, their kids, their friends, they, they live out of a fucking truck. Yeah.
And when I saw that, that's when I kind of realized that I wanted to start doing my own shit. And
you know, it's sometimes when you, when you get something and you kind of arrive somewhere where
you feel like that was your goal to get there, you realize this isn't all it was cracked up to be.
There's probably way more than this. Yeah. And I think that that just comes from experience, right?
You lived it, you did it, you took a shot at it and then you realized or came to the realization
yourself that, shit, I want more than this. This isn't, this isn't what it was cracked up to be.
And that's when you probably had to make your own decision to create something like this, right?
Like go out on a limb and take a risk and try to create something on your own that is sustainable.
So up in Vantage, was that your first project that you did independently?
That was my very first podcast and, you know, I went into it pretty much blindly. At the time,
it was, you know, cereal was huge, but there weren't a lot of other podcasts in that exact
vein where they were just like a deep dive investigative narrative that felt like a
documentary or a movie. And so there wasn't really much of a blueprint for me to go off of.
And so all I really did was I tried to make a show that I would want to listen to.
And I still to this day kind of do that. And I try to not really look around to what everyone
else is doing all the time or study that too much. Because I think that I've got to a point where
I like kind of learning from my own mistakes and taking my own risk. And I don't want to be
tainted by, you know, what someone else says you should be doing or something that's working
for somebody else maybe doesn't work for me. Yeah, there's not a lot of podcasts like that,
right? There's really not. There's more now for sure. The most recent one that I've listened to
other than yours is the one about Elizabeth Holmes, the lady who scammed everyone in Silicon Valley
with her blood thing that she had. Yeah, it's crazy. Yeah. That one was really good too. Yeah.
And a long. Yeah. There's, I mean, there's, at this point, there's tons of great podcasts like
that. Yeah. How long does it take to do it though? Because creating a documentary takes a
long fucking time. There's a lot of work, a lot of driving, a lot of, especially if you're bringing
people with you to help you be, you know, camera assistants, audio people, whatever it may be,
it's monotonous. There's just so much thinking that's involved in making a podcast like that.
If you're, if you're doing a story on a cold case and the premise is that I'm going to go to this
town and try to figure out what happened, there's so much thinking involved in so many different
pieces to the puzzle that have to be figured out in your own brain and then sort of shaken down and
put in a digestible form for a listener. And so that process just takes forever. And what I've
learned and, you know, how my team has gotten better at working is we're really kind of quick
thinking and we don't really overthink it. We just kind of pull the trigger and go with the gut.
You can always go back and change stuff. But if you get stuck on one little facet of something,
you might miss out on something you didn't know was around the corner because you're still working
on that thing that didn't really matter in the first place, right? So I like to think just like,
let's just go do this thing, learn from our mistakes, and just kind of keep it moving and be okay with
that. One of the things I like about doing these types of podcasts is that there's absolutely zero
editing, zero B-roll, zero music you have to do. You just record it and you publish it, no matter
how dumb you sounded, no matter what happens. Beautiful. And that's what I love about it.
Is that a similar tactic to what you take or do you put a lot, how much time, I guess this is a
better way of asking, how much time do you spend on between recording and actually publishing one
of the episodes? So I actually admire what you're doing. I'm actually kind of jealous a little bit.
But I mean, we do a similar thing. We'll sit down with somebody, right? But we take that tape and we
kind of, you know, whittle it down to the best of the best of the best and put it as like a component
in a larger story. And so like, it's this, like we get the information in the same way.
So you have a full story laid out already. You have the beginning and already figured out.
Yeah, we have an entire outline and backbone to, I mean, what would normally maybe even be a script,
right, for a TV series. And we're kind of plugging and playing, but also it's a living,
breathing thing. If it's a documentary, there's so much that's out of your control. You might think
it's going to go this way. You might think that person is going to answer the phone when they
don't. And so you kind of have to safeguard yourself and plan around this real life thing
and try to shape the best result for not only, you know, the case itself and the victim's family,
but also like as a listener, a satisfactory ending or something that felt like this was worth
having listened to. So, but in like the case of Up and Vanished, when you released every single
episode, you obviously, that was a long time ago. Yes. When you were doing that, like between
episode one, two, three, four, five, six, did you already have everything like in the canon edited
before you released it? Or were you still in between episode two and three going out there and
getting new shit? That was like my ultimate training as a podcaster. And I don't really do it that way
anymore, but I was really at the time making Up and Vanished week to week to the point where
it would be, you know, Sunday night and I would get a phone call from somebody, I would record it,
edit it, put music to it, and it would be in Monday morning's episode. And then as a result of that,
someone on Tuesday is responding to this. And so it was kind of building on itself when this case was
on fire. It was one of the biggest news stories in Georgia and kind of just, you know, this snowball
effect of everyone's talking, truth's coming out. We shook the trees and now we're kind of just
capturing what's happening around us. That's cool. That's cool because then you get like a vibe that
this thing is not super produced or overly produced to where it seems fake. Yeah, it was very real in
that sense, but I was going kind of the extra mile to kind of frame it and put it in a way for you
where it felt sort of premium, like it was, even though that call just happened last night,
it's playing out like it's, you know, in some showtime documentary. Or like, or that was my goal
was to make it feel that way. When you released the first episode of the show, what was that,
what was that process like for you? Was that the first time you ever published anything you ever
made online? No, it was the first time I published a podcast. And I was, I was really kind of in
my head about it a little bit because, you know, throughout my whole, you know, life and career,
I'd identified as a filmmaker, right? And I looked at radio and podcasts as like a different beast.
And I didn't want to come onto the scene and be like, Hey, I do this now. I kind of felt a little
like imposter syndrome about it. So much so that I was convinced that no one would like my voice.
And everyone always says that. But I really was like, I don't have that kind of voice. I mean,
that's what someone in radio has, right? Like, if that was the case, I would have been doing that
already or something. And so I was really kind of timid and a little nervous putting it out. But
the response in the first week was pretty positive. And I remember it was, I got 5,000
listens on the first episode. And I was like, that's huge because that's more, you know,
followers than I have on social media, more friends than I have on Facebook. So I was like,
you know, something's clicking here. And I just kind of kept making a show that I was sort of
teaching myself how to make in that process. When you uploaded the episode, where'd you
post it? I use some old website. I think it's not even around. Maybe it was called Podbean or
something like that. Yeah, I've heard of that. Yeah, I just kind of like found my own hosting.
Also back then in 2016, it was- So you didn't post like just the audio on YouTube or anything?
You only post it on the audio platforms? I only post on the audio platforms. I was trying to
get it in the same places that I found, you know, Serial and the other podcasts that I was looking
at. I was trying to sort of frame it to be next to these shows. Like, hey, guys, there's another one
of these. I was- There were visual components to it, but it was all like trailer stuff. We
actually shot a- On the last music video that I did, and still the last one I've done to this day,
we rented a film camera and we kept a couple extra reels to film, like a visual trailer,
four up and vanished. And I kind of wanted to put out something that felt super premium and
suspenseful that would make you think, is this a new Netflix series? What is this? It's like, oh,
no, no, it's just a podcast. And you're like, what? But that was kind of my approach to it.
And how did- So your first episode got 5,000 downloads or whatever. How did you promote that?
How long did that take for that to sort of take off? It happened pretty quickly. I mean,
the first couple weeks, I was targeting the actual town itself, Osilla, Georgia. I was paying for
Instagram ads of this visual trailer that I had and was really just targeting it to people who were
right here because they would definitely know this case. And so they would definitely be interested
in this. And once the townspeople kind of got wind of what was going on, it sort of snowballed
from there. And then a month or so into it, there was an audience that was significantly
larger than just the town. And it was becoming something that was a little bit more zeitgeisty
and had a little bit of a buzz to it. And that just kind of kept going. I never knew what the
ceiling of that would be. Never knew if this was even going to make any money. I was still looking
at it like a stepping stone to do some other thing. And then after you posted that first one,
how long did it take for you to post the second one and for this thing to really get viral?
So after the first one, from that point forward, I was publishing them every week.
Every, I think it was every Monday. And borrowing a few off weeks that I kind of took because I
was just in the weeds. But I made episode one, and I had not even started episode two.
And in the week between one and two, I made episode two. And that's how I kind of continued
the rest of the show, which I do not recommend for anyone to do it that way. But at the time,
it's what I was dealing with. And I was still kind of trying to figure out what the hell I was
doing, really. I think that's the best way to do it. I mean, there's something to it. I will say
the results are special. But I really, I lived in this case, in this story, in this podcast,
every day of my life for a year and a half, quite literally. And that was intense.
So I guess we should explain it for people who don't know it. What is the premise of Up and
Vanished? And how did you decide to report on this thing?
So Up and Vanished season one is about a missing person named Tara Grinstead, who was a high school
teacher in Osilla, Georgia. She mysteriously vanished in 2005. And it was a huge unsolved case
in Georgia. It was one of the top 10 unsolved cases on the Georgia Bureau of Investigations
website. And the circumstances were weird. She had left this barbecue and she went to
her house allegedly. They found her car on the driveway, cell phone inside, doors locked,
but she's just gone. And it was like, how does that happen in this tiny place? And then there was
a whole myriad of different persons of interest, but none of them really added up. And so the
rumor mill started going in South Georgia for years and years. And it was almost like an urban
legend at this point. It was totally had captured the lives of everyone in the town. And when I
came into it almost 12 years later, I was kind of starting from scratch. And as a total outsider,
just went to this town and started talking to people and asking questions as some city guy
who has a microphone and apparently makes a podcast. And I just tried to use that to
my advantage, even though some people were like, are you serious? Who is this guy? There was also
a level of like, well, it's a little easier to talk to you than it may be the police or
date line with all the cameras they have. And so I just tried to lean into the sort of
amateur nature of what I was doing to build some trust with people in the town.
So who specifically tipped you off on this exact on this specific case? And what made you decide
on going to this town and starting here? I just had decided that I was going to make a true crime
documentary and I was going to investigate a cold case in my home state. This was probably,
arguably the biggest cold case in Georgia at the time. And so I started poking around and
a few weeks into it, I realized that my grandma of all people was like best friends with one of
the last people to see Tara alive. And so there was this weird sort of closeness. And at the time
I was looking for any signs that this was the right thing for me to be doing. And so I looked at
that like, hey, I mean, if my grandma is giving me tips or talking to me about real shit in this
case, then maybe that's a sign that I'm going the right direction. At least I feel a little bit
better about it. And so I just leaned into that and just kept going. And how did this
thing become cold? And why do you think that this case just got put on the back burner and
forgotten about? I think that in the early stages, it was just a damn good mystery, really. Was
there corruption? Was there coverups by police inside job? What do you think it was? I think that
just what they saw didn't make any sense. There were probably some mistakes made early on.
There was a way for them to have figured this out back in 2005. And that was in their case file.
There was, there were rumors and there were, you know, accounts on record about these two guys,
Ryan Duke and Bo Dukes, who ultimately were discovered as the, you know, who murdered Tara.
And there was a report about them out here on this pecan orchard burning Tara's body. And
I think that it was just so preposterous sounding that these former high school students,
super young, one would even be anywhere near Tara and definitely not doing this, right? And so I
think they just kind of turned a blind eye. But there you go, 10 years later, and now they're
looking at ex-boyfriends, you know, going through her love life. And it's the neighbor, it's this guy,
and it's just this classic, you know, finger pointing in a small town. I love how you did it,
too. Like I was on episode three last night, when I was finishing episode three, I was like,
holy shit, it's definitely this ex-boyfriend who did it, like without a doubt, there's no way there's
this guy who was overseas in Iraq, and his girlfriends here, you know, jumping around town,
being a little feral cat. And he comes back, he's jealous, and he wants to kill her. Like I was
convinced. And then like you freaking, you next episode, you're like, ah, I could be wrong. Yeah.
That's great how you did that. And that's really kind of, that's how I felt. It's like, I really
had no idea who killed Tara, what happened to her. I knew that she didn't run off on her own.
And I would just go down these different rabbit holes with different people,
and you could find stuff that did look weird objectively, right? But it would never go all
the way there. It could never like close the loop. And that was problematic. And then we learned halfway
through the season that there were these other guys over here this whole time. And really, so the
second half, not to spoil it for you, but the second half of the show is really kind of a different
podcast. It's covering the live, you know, as the breaks in the case are happening, as they're
making arrests, and new information's coming to light, it's kind of unpacking the story of these
guys and what really happened. So as far as like the place that I'm at, the thing that I remember
most recently that I listened to was the part where there was a house that burned down and there
was no reason why it was an abandoned house. Snapdragon Road. Snapdragon Road, right. There
was no reason the house would have burned down, but there was a car there that shouldn't have been
there. And the dogs, the guys, you were talking to the guy who had the dogs that were supposed to
the cadaver dogs. And you talked to the fire marshal and they were like, what? How did I not
hear about this? Like you were finding like massive holes in this burnt down house.
Yeah. And at that time, I was like, you know, each time I found something like that, I was like,
is this it? This might be it. And it just turned out to be a red herring. That was weird, but it
never went any further than that. But you could tell just even going back and exploring these
things that there was, there was stuff that was missed or stuff that had a big question mark on
it still. And so I kind of, you know, took on the mindset that, you know, even if I don't solve this,
which, you know, my goal was to solve it, but I didn't think that that was possible really.
I could at least sort of bring clarity and rule things out, right?
Mm-hmm. So there's so many cops involved and all the cops know each other. And there's that
creepy old cop who was, I don't know how old he was when he was at her house, but it seemed like
he was way older, who was a HD was his initials, dicks or whatever. Heath Dykes. He was at her
house and business car and door, very suspicious. And there was like, he had made a bunch of phone
calls to her. Yeah. And so how did basically the little world, the little like bubble you were
searching between all the cops and ex-boyfriends, how did that transition into these other guys,
these Duke guys? Because you didn't mention these, these Duke guys haven't been mentioned at all in
the first six episodes. No. So early on, you know, so Maurice Godwin, the forensic psychologist,
guy who had, you know, private investigator who had worked this case forever, who I met in episode
one, he stays throughout the series. Back in the day, I mean, he was here on the ground like early
on. And before the podcast came out, I was having many discussions with him about, you know, who,
who you think did it, who I thought did it. And super early on, we were actually looking at this
photograph of these former students of Terra's. And we were talking about the possibility of it being
a former student who killed Terra. And I remember thinking at the time, I was like, that just sounds
like I don't have anything really like grounded with that. And I feel like if I start going down
this avenue of suggesting that maybe she had these, you know, peculiar relationships with
her students, that would be really insensitive. Well, she did, right? I mean, you talk about it
early on. And then we discover later that she actually did. And so I kind of just put that on
the back burner and I focused on everything that had been covered before. All the documentaries
that had talked about this case, you know, the names they brought up, Anthony Vickers, Heath Dykes.
Anthony, he's the one. Yeah, I remember specifically you were interviewing him and it was on,
you recorded it and you were like, did you have a relationship with her? He's like, yeah. He's
like, was it sexual? He's like, huh, yeah. Right. I was like, holy shit. He said that. And like, that
was always like a rumor. And no one had ever seemingly asked that guy point blank. If that's
what was going on. And at least that was that mystery was dispelled. It didn't probably look
great for him at the time. But, you know, turns out he had nothing to do with it at all. And
yeah, I think that it was just step by step, kind of peeling back the onion layer and finding,
you know, this little nugget and that little nugget. And then it was all the sudden,
in February 2017, out of nowhere, they have a press conference in O'Sillat, the courthouse,
announcing that they arrest a guy named Ryan Duke, who was a former student of Terra's,
for her murder. Pardon this brief interruption, but I want to take a second to talk about our
sponsor, Verso. Now, if you've heard this podcast before, chances are you already know how obsessed
I am with health and longevity, which is why one of my favorite guests to have on the show is
nutritional scientist and neuroscientist, Dr. Dom Dagestino, who actually introduced me to this
stuff. Verso is a company that is dedicated to translating scientific breakthroughs into products
that hold the potential to increase longevity. The problem with aging is we accumulate these
zombie cells or old damage cells that linger beyond their useful life. These zombie cells
infect other healthy cells, speeding up the aging process, causing things like hair loss,
wrinkles, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and everything in the realm of aging. What scientists have
realized is that we can manually induce autophagy, meaning the cleanup process of the old zombie
cells and replacing them with new ones. Verso's new clean being, which I take every night, is a
powerful blend of synalytic molecules that help promote the body's natural cleanup processes,
like autophagy and apoptosis, promoting better cellular health, supporting lower inflammation
and natural cardioprotective functions, while boosting protection against age-related diseases.
The three main ingredients in clean being are spermedine, lutolyn, and dehydrocorsatin,
which play key roles in the control of gene expression and are essential for cell growth
and proliferation, specifically when it comes to cardiovascular and cognitive function,
skin health, vision, and the immune system. Head on over to ver.so and use the coupon code
concrete at checkout to save 15% on your order. I linked it all below. Now back to the show.
And everyone goes, who the hell's Ryan Duke? What? And was never on their radar, so they say.
And it was a total out of left field. And so it was that day that I had to make a decision.
Am I going to leave it here and, you know, hang up this story for now, my coverage of this?
Or am I going to lean in even more to all the things that I'm hearing on the ground
that are saying, Hey, I don't think it was just this guy. It was this other guy too.
And sure enough, weeks later, he's arrested. And we kind of go down this path of looking into
both of their lives and, you know, were the roles reversed? And there's a lot of evidence to support
that. And so it became like, these cops screwed up, let this guy get away with this for over a decade.
And are they screwing up again? So you personally, through your investigations,
had no crumb trail leading to these Duke guys? I had never heard of Ryan Duke in my life. But
what's funny is that picture that I was referring to, right back when I was considering looking
into the angle of former students, the other suspect, Bo Dukes, who some believe had a larger
role in her murder than he's saying, he's in this picture. So all these guys that are in this picture
with this truck are the guys that they were all hanging out with, the guys that were at the parties
at the pecan orchard, the same friend circle. It was kind of right there. I just had zero clue
and zero context to keep going down that direction. But it's crazy that all the people you talk to,
none of them mentioned these guys. No, it's crazy. I think that it was really a very well-kept
secret. And those who did know something, A, didn't want to believe it, and B, were too scared to
say a damn thing. And it wasn't very many people who knew, but law enforcement had the opportunity
in 2005 to put this whole case to rest and at least interview them, arrest them under
suspicion of something and it would have been over. But they just kind of let it go and then
it fell between the cracks and now this case file is this tall. And it's just one little
file buried in there, but that was the answer. So when they brought him to trial and what
he said was 2017? Well, he was arrested in 2017. He was arrested. The trial was postponed and
postponed didn't even happen until last May. And I was actually subpoenaed and they were really
just doing that to fuck with me. They didn't want me in the courtroom, but we rebutted and filed
some other thing and basically said, hey, I'm a journalist. You can't restrict me from being able
to cover this public case. And so they backed off and I ended up going for a day or two in the
final days. But after a two-week trial, he was found not guilty. So why did they arrest him in
the first place? Because the other guy, Bo Dukes, his friend, came to the police on his own with
this story that Ryan had killed her and that he had helped Ryan burn Tara's body. And so
that's how it all started. And then when they finally went to scoop up Ryan, he's messed up.
He's disheveled. Looks like he's on drugs or something. They take him straight to the station
they put a recorder down and they ask him to confess and he does. He confesses. But turns out
the stuff he was confessing to didn't really make sense. And instead of the police in that moment
saying, what do you mean? Like, you know, making it make sense or pressing in the right places to
get a strong narrative or see if there's any other truth that isn't what you're saying. Now,
I think they were so green. They were so excited that somebody was, you know, that they caught the
bad guy. They got a conviction. That they blew it. So what did he say? Well, how involved did he
claim he was? He just said he burned the body. That's it. He didn't kill her. The story is still
so weird and convoluted, but it goes a little something like this where the motive is also
extremely unclear. He says that he woke up in the middle of the night, drunk out of his mind,
got in this truck and drove about 15, 20 minutes straight to Tara's house for whatever reason
to rob her. And he breaks into her house with a credit card. And she, I guess, appears from
the darkness or something and he got spooked and he hit her one hit, one punch, and she's dead.
And I'm like, what? That doesn't make sense. Maybe that is how it happened, but that makes no
fucking sense, right? And they just took that, just word for word, like it was no big deal,
as if, you know, no one else in the town or any juror wouldn't think that was a little odd, right?
So he claims he went to her house, broke in, punched her in the face, she died,
and then he dragged her out and decided to burn her body. So then he goes back to his friend's
house and the next day he tells him when he wakes up that last night he killed Tara Grenstead.
And I think according to their narrative, he first didn't believe him and then he went and
he goes and shows the body to Ryan or to Bo. And he's like, holy shit, you did kill our former
teacher. And, you know, I think the biggest thing about this to me was that it sounded like
maybe Ryan didn't really remember what happened, actually. Even if he did kill her,
I don't think that he really remembered it. And so like the ongoing building narrative that was
just, you know, that I was not forcing that was just coming to me and is, ends up being a stronger
version of events, is that what if this other guy told him he did this?
Who, Bo?
Bo Dukes says, you killed Tara Grenstead last night. And if you look at both of them,
you look at their behavior, one's a liar, one's abusive, one's nasty, one has, you know, had
trouble with the law, his whole life is a proven liar, is a, you know, for fraud, stuff like that.
Other guy, no one even really knows, is the quiet guy.
The quiet guy is who, Bo?
Ryan.
Ryan.
And so if you just look at them on paper, you're like, it's really this guy? And maybe it is.
But when these things start adding up and there isn't a strong narrative as to
why Tara was killed by Ryan and how he did it, then it makes you wonder, well, why don't I know
those things? Because that should be there, I think. And they fail to do that. And that's why,
in my opinion, he was found not guilty.
What is your tinfoil hat theory on why this could have happened? Not saying that you're
saying that's what it is?
Yeah, I mean, I think that there's no way that Bo Dukes is not more involved than he's said
in the past. I don't know to what degree that is. But until that narrative makes sense to me,
I'm going to have some big glaring questions and there's going to be some big red flags there.
And I think it all goes back to him. And so I don't know exactly how it all happened.
I don't know if, you know, they drove over to her house or if he did that, or if they met in
some other place entirely. But there's no way it happened the way they said it did.
There's no way Ryan wakes up and goes, Oh, I'm going to Tara's house.
Do you have any theories of what the motive could be?
I think maybe they could have been hanging out. And, you know, maybe on some friendship type stuff.
Just like with Tara?
Yeah. And something got out of control. Something got out of hand. And, you know,
she ended up dead somehow. And that would involve, you know, somebody
likely doing something sexual or went to that place. And I think that if you look at the behavior
of someone like Bo Dukes, you know, he does that kind of stuff. You know, he's raped somebody
before. He's in jail for rape right now. So it's not like it's out of his character. And so,
you know, I don't want to, you know, point the finger at anybody. But, you know, there's a big
question mark there. And I think that if we knew some of the, you know, the main pieces,
like how do they ever link up? To me, that was the big one. If we knew that, then I think that
you could piece the rest together. But it didn't happen from some guy waking up drunk out of his
mind. Right. And just saying, Oh my God, my former teacher's house to steal. What? She's a teacher.
She doesn't make any money.
That sounds like absolute bullshit. Yeah.
It's surprising that the prosecutors and the investigators would just be able to settle
with that explanation. It blew my mind that like in the five years.
But it is Georgia. It is Georgia. I mean, they had five years to get their story straight. And
they ran with the same bullshit they did five years ago. And they're mad at me about it. It's
like, okay. Who's mad at you? Some people in the GBI have never really, you know,
liked me very much. And I get it. I'm probably, you know, a thorn in their side a little bit.
Of course.
Some guy coming down and, you know, poking at this case and anything that I find doesn't make
you look good because why didn't you find it? Right. And, you know, it's their, you know,
responsibility to actually solve it. And so I think they just really didn't like the fact that
I had, that I was investigating this case and I made this podcast that got so hugely popular
and put them under the microscope. Right. How many, how many people have listened to this
whole series so far? It's, I want to say it's over 400 million downloads across the series.
And that's incredible, man. It's been huge. And I think it's just really a testament to
like the kind of the style we, we go approach a story like this and it feeling like something
is happening. This is special. We're trying to actually solve the murder. We're not just retelling,
rehashing some tragedy. Right. And I think there's a big difference. Right. Right. There's something to
looking under rock, picking up rocks that haven't been picked up before and looking underneath
them and finding something that has never had light, light shined on it before and then just
going down, falling down that rabbit hole forever. We're picking up the same rock and being like,
hey, like, I know you all picked this up a long time ago, but did y'all look very well? Right.
But I mean, specifically when it comes to like creating entertainment or media or something
like that and publishing it, like when you look at the media landscape, it's all stuff that just
gets recycled and regurgitated and people just want to like follow what's already popular or
what's going to get them more listens or views or whatever. But when you actually like take risks
and, and look for shit that no one's talking about, that is the stuff I think that is extremely
powerful. And that was what was new for me that was the biggest learning curve was, you know,
what the hell am I doing as a investigator, podcaster, trying to solve this cold case?
How do I juggle this? I knew how to do the creative part to an extent because that's what
I've been doing my whole life. And I was just, you know, learning from my mistakes and just kept
building on what I felt was working. But, you know, me being this sort of, you know, outlier in this
small town, talking to strangers and gaining people's trust, that was a new thing in that
sort of way. And that was arguably the hardest part about doing up and vanished was dealing with
the realness and the heaviness of everything and knowing how big of a responsibility it really
was at the time. Yeah. It's like you're just like putting this puzzle together, like playing a game
and these people's lives are actually like at stake. Yeah, it's a listener, yeah, it's a podcast,
right? But, you know, these people are still going to call me, you know, they're real people,
they're living a real life and so am I. It might be a cool listen, but it doesn't end when you
press stop for me. What kind of, how many people were reaching out to you? Did you get anybody that
like emailed you or contacted you about this case that like provided any big breaks or even
leads you on to more stories? There was tons. I mean, it's like endless. It was pretty much all
the big things that were revelations in the show were things that people had reached out to me about
that I sort of verified myself on my own, one of them being that the cops did go and search
that pecan orchard based on that tip back in 2005. Oh, wow. And, you know, that was a huge
piece of information because they also kind of brought up the idea that or the statute of limitations
up on this because if they were looking into this in 05, you know, if it's been past 10 years in some
scenario, there's a possibility that they couldn't be charged with something because they blew it.
Also, you blew it, right? Did they ever find her DNA or any sort of? So they've always been like
real elusive about what they did find and what I've been told and I believe is the truth is that
they found bone fragments, I think specifically teeth that they were able to test. You know,
they burned her body for days and there wasn't much left. Also, it had been over a decade out
there for days and so there really wasn't a lot. And nobody saw that there was no witnesses or
anything to this? I mean, they're just out there in the boonies way out on this private pecan
orchard. I think people knew that there was something burning, but I don't think anyone
thought it was that, right? And so they had a huge property that this could be done on
and sort of get away with it, which I mean, they did. And the building that burned down,
that was just a false flag, nothing to do with it. Yep, just false flag, just a weird thing,
weird coincidence, just like many others in the case and it's all a result of, you know,
not looking down the right direction from the very beginning and looking everywhere else and then
trying to make that work. And that's what the police were doing.
Wow, man. So what are you working on next? What did you decide to do after that,
like more true crime investigations like this, try to dig into more unsolved mysteries?
Yeah, so after season one, I made another true crime podcast called Atlanta Monster about the
Atlanta child murders in the 80s. And it was a limited series, 10 episodes, and it was a
investigative thing again, but also sort of a history lesson in terms of, you know, what was
happening back then in the 80s and, you know, culture at the time and racism and all those things.
And I eventually got Wayne Williams on the phone. And so the last half of the show is me
talking to him and him basically trying to convince me why he isn't the Atlanta child
murder. So he's the guy who was arrested for the Atlanta child murders and he's definitely the guy
who killed those kids. But he would tell you otherwise. And there's some things that are weird
that don't add up, but the guy is a pathological liar. He's a psychopath. And I talked to him at
length for months. In person or on the phone? On the phone. And I was able to eventually get to
the point where I was going back through all the tape I had and could trip him up on his lies.
And sort of, you know, hopefully put to rest, at least for me, that this guy is a liar.
You know, just because this looks weird over here doesn't mean that he didn't kill
these 15 kids over here. So what is the story? What is this guy's story? If you could like
sum it up, like give me like an elevator pitch or what this guy's all about. And like the case
of the whole Atlanta child murders. So in the early 80s in Atlanta, black children were going
missing and turning up dead. And it got to the point where they realized that something was
happening. These weren't, these were all connected in some way. And there was likely a serial killer.
And this is kind of the visors being left out in the public. Yes. And yes. And they were all kids.
They were all black and going missing from, you know, the poor neighborhoods. And eventually,
they find their suspect. And his name is Wayne Williams. And he was a black guy. And he worked
in the music industry. That's a loose description. But he recruited kids. And it was like kind of
trying to make his own band, right? Like a Jackson five kind of thing. And so he had access to these
kids. And they eventually the, the, the smoking gun for Wayne was when they went and searched his
house, they found these carpet fibers that matched several of the bodies of the victims.
And normally you'd say, okay, a carpet fiber, right? Like everyone has carpet. Why is that not
someone else's house? Well, just so happened that this particular fiber that they tracked down all
the way was so incredibly rare that it was in like maybe one or two other houses in the state.
And so the likelihood of these fibers being on these victims collectively on its own is crazy.
But for them, for the, for those fibers to also be in Wayne Williams house, what are the odds?
And so that was really kind of how they were able to close the book on Wayne Williams being the
Atlanta child murderer. He only went to jail for two of the murders, but a lot more are attributed
to him. How many? I mean, some say as many as 30. But I think it's probably realistically
15, 17 of the kids that he, he killed. I think that some of the other kids on the list,
I think that there were other circumstances that, that were weird, but don't really match the motive
and the MO of the other murders. And I think those are just outliers and there's probably a bunch
of different reasons for that. And so he kind of likes to look at those cases that maybe he
didn't actually commit and say, see, I didn't do that. And it's like, yeah, you probably didn't,
but you killed all of these other kids. And so it's a really bizarre thing. And I just got
so tired of talking to this guy. It was exhausting. And eventually I had to
block his number from, from jail, from all my phones after I kind of, you know, let him hang
himself. What was his background? What, why, how did he get involved in this? And had he been in
and out of jail before? Was he, what was his motive to doing this? That's always been a big
question mark. And I think that what the general consensus is, and it's never really been proven,
but it seems like there was probably some sexual nature to the crimes. I think that, you know,
there was probably some sort of pedophilia type, you know, either motivation or something where
he was attracted to these kids. And that's also why he did the music stuff like that.
And he just started scooping them up. And maybe he did something one time
and got away with it. And I think he liked the fact that he was able to get away with something so
terrible. And he was kind of one of those guys who was a whiz at the time in terms of like radio
technology and almost like a, you know, chasing the news. And he even sort of liked to go out to
crime scenes himself and as like a independent reporter. And so he, I think he got off on the
fact that he was killing these kids and they were all trying to figure out who it was and he was
still doing it and getting away with it. You know, it's hard to, there's no good reason for him to
kill a kid, but I think that that's probably in his head what he got from it. Was there any sort of
like racial motive involved? And you say he was black and he was only killing black kids,
did he ever, what did he say about that? And that's, that's the weird thing, right? It's like, you know,
I think that that shocked a lot of people that it was a black guy who, who killed these black kids.
And I bet no one expected that. And, but even the police themselves, and they had said early on,
like the FBI profilers, they were saying, you know what, I don't think that a white guy could have
done it actually, because if a white guy was going in and snatching kids from these neighborhoods,
that would be noticed immediately. And so they had a hunch that whoever this person was, whatever
their color was, he was able to blend in with his environment and go completely unnoticed
while committing these crimes. And so that was kind of a leading factor in terms of the profile
they were building of the suspect. And yeah, that into a lot of people, it's still very shocking.
I don't know if it was a race thing. I think he was just taking advantage of
the kids who were closest to him. When this was going on, was there sort of a media frenzy around
some sort of like, oh yeah, racial narrative around it? It was huge. I mean, it was also
in the 80s when, you know, racism is alive and well at that point. Right. And, you know,
it was at a time where it was super charged and these black kids were going missing. And it seemed
like no one was doing anything about it. And then it eventually became a national news story
for some of those same reasons. And it was really the Georgia police, the GBI, the Atlanta police,
they wanted this thing to go away. It was not making Georgia or Atlanta look very good. They're
like, we need to figure out who the hell this guy is and put him behind bars. And so they really
pulled out all the stops and they eventually did catch this guy. But at the time it was a huge
story that had a lot of implications. And it was a big shock when Wayne Williams turned out to be
the killer. Did he confess to any of that? Or does he still maintain his innocence?
He still maintains his innocence, which also people do that. There's plenty of people who
we know. I mean, O.J. Simpson says he didn't do it either. Right. Also, I think sometimes he did
do it. But yeah, it's not surprising. If you analyze him, and I'm not even like an expert at that,
but even just for the lay person, he's a pathological liar. And he's good at lying. He's
actually pretty charming when you talk to him on the phone. And you're like, ah, stop. He gets you
like going down this way when you were trying to go that way. And he's just really good at it.
And I think he's probably convinced himself and he believes that he didn't do it either.
He's convinced himself at this point. Interesting. Yeah, I get a lot. I'm from what
you're saying. I get a lot of Charles Manson vibes from this guy. Did he seem at all kind of just
like completely lost his mind, full of himself, narcissistic? He's narcissistic for sure. He's
definitely full of himself. He's super charming and quick and sort of witty and kind of unassuming.
Like you wouldn't think that this real old man who's acting all jolly could have done this.
Right. But if you start just peeling it all back and looking at the facts,
it supports the fact that he did. And there are some things that he's lied about that he
shouldn't have. And it's just, you know, you get into a pattern of covering your ass. At what point
are you lying about everything? Have you ever read Tom O'Neill's book, Chaos? No. About Charles
Manson? Is it good? It's really good. He spent, he was a reporter for some sort of Hollywood
magazine and he was tasked to just write a quick report on the 10 year anniversary or it was the
20 year anniversary, I think, of the Manson murders. And he did it and then he just, he started
looking into it and asking for some interviews. Next thing you know, he spent 20 years going
down this rabbit hole in three lawsuits with the different magazines that paid him to report on it
because he was just so invested in it. And he ended up finding all these gaping holes in the story
from everything from Jolly West, who was a CIA chemist, to his probation officer,
who was like working with this free clinic in San Francisco with a bunch of hippies and like
doing these crazy tests with LSD and with amphetamines. And you know, there's like these just
gaping holes in that, in that story. And he never got to the bottom of it. But it's a fascinating
book, how he covers it. And I'm getting a lot of the same vibes from what you're saying about
this guy. So I'm curious, like, did this guy ever go to prison before all this stuff? Like,
how much connection did he have to the law enforcement or the FBI or anything like that?
Because there's just so many weird psyops in history when it comes to like murder cases like this
that get tons of media coverage, especially when there's a lot. I'm not saying that this is what
it is, but it smells fishy like that. And that's kind of one of the problems with the case is that
if you look at it on a surface level, you can draw those assumptions. It's very easy to fall down
the slippery conspiracy theory slope with this case especially, because there's just weird stuff in
it. It's just there's oddities that exist. But the thing is sometimes weird shit happens.
And you know, at a certain point, you have to look at the cold, hard evidence and
to put your blinders on and objectively say, hey, these things couldn't have happened unless he
did it. I don't care how weird it is. Right. So he definitely did it. He definitely did it. And
you said there were 30 kids? There was, yeah, 30 kids on the list. And I think that he probably
killed half the kids on that list. And who would have killed the rest of them? Was it someone
he was involved with or was it just copycat? I don't think that it was a serial killer. I think
that they were all just completely different circumstances. If you dive into the cases,
you can tell that it was likely, you know, some may have been just a one off thing that, you know,
some other person killed this kid or there was family stuff involved over here and just different
kind of scenarios and settings and MOs for every other case that it was kind of like
it not connected to anything other than they just happened at the same time. And because they're all
lumped together into this this list, he just likes to hang on the fact that he didn't kill
every one of those kids. Does he have the death penalty? Or does he have like life in prison?
Life in prison. Life, no death. No death. Does Georgia still have the death penalty? I think so.
If you have life in prison, why wouldn't you just admit if you really did it? You're already in jail
for life. I think because he still gets off on people like me who, you know, wanted to hear him
out. It's like, I'm sure he's moved on to the next one. You know, there's they've done so many
documentaries on this over time, over the decades that I think that to him it's like the bane of
his existence at this point. He likes to be able to preach this narrative to other people. It's
like he's still spending the same bullshit web that he was spending before he went to jail.
And that's just he'll never stop doing that. Strange, man. It is very strange. Are all your
stories based out of Georgia? Do all of them come out of Atlanta, your area, or Georgia in
specific? No, those were the two biggest cases that I covered. But yeah, season two of Up in
Venice was a missing person from Crestone, Colorado, this small town. Her name's Crystal Reisinger.
And then season three was about Ashley Loring, heavy runner missing from a Native American
reservation in Montana. And so really like all the cases that I've covered and the true crime
stories I've made podcasts about have taken me kind of all over the place at this point.
Did you have to move to these places when you start reporting on them?
For a period of time, yeah, I mean, I will get like a part time apartment or Airbnb for,
you know, a long extended period of time and really kind of be there and immerse myself in
the story and actually for season three, we rented an RV and we just went to, you know,
around the town and people we wanted to interview, we would just invite them on to the RV and had a
whole basically like a studio setup because it was really kind of uncomfortable in a lot of
situations to impose going into their house and there was no real good public place to do this.
And so we kind of needed to bring our, you know, controlled element to them to get that tape and
to have these one-on-ones with people. What was that recent case in Florida that happened? I
think it was, was that Gabby Petito? The girl was in that reservation. I forget how that story
went. I did a whole podcast on it, but that was like maybe a year ago. And they found, I think
they found it. Did you follow that at all? You talking about the, where they were out west on?
Yeah, they were out west in some nature reserve and she, they actually got,
her boyfriend got pulled over. They were driving a truck and they interviewed her and she seemed
like psychotic. Yeah, that was, yeah, you could miss that case. That was all over everywhere. It was
like insanely covered. Yeah, I mean, that was a bizarre case. Did they ever find that guy?
Yeah, I think he killed himself. Oh, did he? I think they, yeah, they found him and a gun
somewhere near-ish to where he was last. Everglades or something. Yeah. And there was some sort of,
I think, suicide note. I don't know if they ever released what it said. Maybe they did,
but it was, you know, clear that he had just ran off and ended his life.
Yeah, what is it about like national parks and people disappearing?
I think that there's probably just so many places, so many ways it could go wrong. You know,
you might fall down this crevice. You might get eaten by a bear. Yeah. You might just break your
leg and, you know, you're screaming for help and no one hears you and you die of starvation and
the bear is going to make sure there's no remains of you left, unfortunately,
and so they might never find you or they're aliens abducting you, I don't know.
Or it's the perfect place to kill somebody. You could just feed them to a bear or feed them to a-
Oh yeah, it's like, it's so remote. It's, yeah, you got to be careful out there,
especially if you're walking around by yourself. Yeah, man, that's freaking great. So a lot of
these stories that you're reporting on, you're getting tips from people that are like reaching
out to you and being like, hey, you got to look at this. Yeah, pretty much every case I've covered
at a certain point in the podcast, I'm getting this surge of new information as a result of what
they're listening to. And so because the townspeople know this podcast exists and they're hearing stuff,
they're raising their hand and offering the information that they have and, you know,
I didn't know they existed until then. And so it's kind of a living, breathing thing in that way
where it kind of builds on itself. Yeah, it's weird how when you do something like this, I'm sure
this happened with your up and vantage the first season in Georgia. I'm sure like the whole town
just becomes completely engulfed in the story where it's all anyone talks about. Oh yeah, it's
it was the biggest thing ever. And what I realized had happened before the break in the case,
it was from all the townspeople, it seemed like it was 99% of them love what I was doing. I was,
you know, in their eyes like this good Samaritan who was, you know, going out of his way, putting
himself at risk to tell this story and, you know, uncover the truth. And then once the break in the
case happened and the podcast was so big and polarizing, I think that the people in the town
who were genuinely hurt by what was going on, they either had to say, you know, they wanted to
point their finger at somebody and it was either me or the police. Why would they point their
finger at you? You know, it's a good question. I think that and I think because it's easy to
assign, you know, blame to something, you know, if I had I not been here doing this and maybe this,
you know, you wouldn't have been disrupted the way that you were. And if you would break that
down, it's kind of sounds crazy. But I think that people need to assign that to someone. And I
realized that yes, some people are going to be upset that I've done this and or that I'm doing
this just because I'm disrupting their lives and not personally or individually, but because
it's such a big thing that's happening in such a small place. They can't escape it.
Well, what is there if the family think about it? What is it? What is there? Are you communicating
with them still? What do they say about what you did? I don't really talk to her family that
much anymore. You know, I've talked to tons of her friends and family. I know it's a big family
and she knew a bunch of people. And so, you know, even that's always been a little bit divided,
right? Really? Yeah, I think that people want to point the finger somewhere. And the problem with
doing true crime stuff or an unsolved murder case is that when you find the truth,
it's going to hurt. It's really ugly what happened. It was it's really terrible stuff.
Yeah, pain off the scalp. It's not a good thing, right? No one's having fun. It's the worst of the
worst. And that's really hard to deal with. I've never had to deal with something like that
on a personal level. But I've seen it firsthand, up close to people that I grew close with and
cared about. And so, I know that it's something that is completely tragic and life altering.
And so, I think when something that tragic happens to anybody, it can shape your perception of
the things around you. And, you know, I don't take any of it personally that if someone didn't
like me or they think that when a XYZ, that's okay. I understand. But I'm not going to...
You're just exploiting my daughter's death. I mean, someone might say that, you know? And
it's, I know, I can go to sleep every night just fine knowing that that's not true.
Because having done it and like lived through the podcast investigation of it all and from every
step of the way, I knew how hard that was and how immense that responsibility was and that I
gave it my all to make sure that I did it the most respectful way possible and never ever lose sight
of what matters the most, which was trying to figure out what happened to Terry Greenstead.
And that I led with that and I continued with that forever.
Do you think that your podcast had anything to do with that guy coming forward and ratting out Ryan?
Yeah, so some people, especially on Reddit, it seems, really have a distaste for me.
They say stuff like, you know, Payne claims he solved that murder. He didn't solve anything.
And, you know, my first response is, well, one, I never claimed to have solved anything.
Well, no, you ripped the scab off.
Right. And I think people just misinterpret certain things this way. Like, oh, he played a
a call from his grandmother who said this, I'm like, you would play a call from your grandmother,
too, man. It's not that deep. It was a special thing at the time. It was really happening.
And so I would never say that I solved that case, because that wouldn't be true. But I know for sure
that the podcast prompted Bo Dukes to start talking again.
And I know that I have proof of that because I have text messages from him sending the podcast
to other people before. Really? Yes. Before he ever confessed to anything.
How do you have those text messages? Because they sent them to me from multiple people.
Law enforcement sent them to you? Oh, hell no. Other friends who, I guess,
knocked them out. But oh, shit. Yeah. So I have like the,
to me, it's like I don't need that validation either way. I know that it clearly brought
new life into a case that needed it at the time. And I think good things happen from that.
But it's true that this was on his radar. And I think that he probably, in his narcissistic way,
felt kind of cool about it. And he just couldn't keep his mouth shut. I don't think it was so much
of him being scared. I think that it was everyone in the town talking about this. And then the whole
nation kind of on fire with this podcast. And he knew the truth. I think that was empowering to him.
And that's when he slipped up and started spilling the beans a little bit.
I thought it was interesting how he mentioned, I was watching a video of his testimony and
I forget who was on the stand. I think it was the brother of Ryan Duke. And he was basically
saying he was at a party with Beau. And Beau was like, hey man, I know who killed her. It was your
brother. And he's like, really? He's like, no, no, no, just kidding. Don't say anything. That was
very interesting. These weird exchanges like that, you're like, what? Yeah. It's hard to wrap your
mind around these conversations. And also, you would see why someone like that wouldn't believe
them. Can you pull up the video of Ryan Duke's testimony on the case? He seemed very, very odd
when he was on the witness stand. He was like, he is odd. Like just objectively weird. He seemed
out of all of them to be the weirdest. Yeah, it doesn't matter. Just pull up any part of Ryan.
Like if you skip forward and if you look at the way he answers the questions,
how he like moves his throat to the microphone every time he says something.
It was pretty shocking that they even brought him up on the stand, really. That was kind of a
surprise to most people. Why wouldn't... Yeah, this, yes, right here. Yeah, full screen.
Who were those roommates? Hank, my hand, Beau Dukes.
And did you guys party a lot with him? He's got a lip-er in right now? Yes, sir.
It looks like he's got a big old hog. Yeah. Beau for either in school or no, Hank was in school.
And that's all Beau did. That guy looks guilty as shit.
Do you want to do any drugs? Yes, sir. What drugs did folks do?
Marijuana and cocaine.
Just a little. Your job is Stuart Finance. Was that a full-time or part-time job? It was full-time.
How long did you work at Stuart Finance? When did you finish? That's a country boy right there.
The next summer. So this would have been about summer 2004. So did you ever talk to him?
I never talked to him directly, but I talked to him through one of his good friends,
and as kind of like a conduit when he was in prison.
I mean, he was instructed to not talk to me at all. And that makes sense, right?
Because I'm going to try to ask the hard questions and figure out what's going on here.
But, you know, there's been transmissions between a friend and, you know, he's a weird mystery,
but, you know, I've never said that Ryan Duke, you know, couldn't have done this.
You know, I've never thought that he had nothing to do with this.
I just think that there's a missing piece to the puzzle. And until that narrative of what
happened to Tara, how they got together, makes even the slightest bit of sense,
then if you have this big elephant in the room with Beau Dukes, who's clearly a piece of shit
person, who's capable of doing messed up stuff, I'm not going to feel good about saying that
it happened the way that they said. Do you think it could have been like murder for hire?
Or it could have been the Iraqi veteran boyfriend? No.
Those guys to kill her? No. I think that was just too deep. It's like...
Yeah, but it seems the most obvious, because it seems like the only motive.
The thing is, is that he didn't, he had no reason to want her dead. It's like he broke up with her.
And it's like, if his heart was broken, you could start, you know, spinning the conspiracy
theory that, you know, he was going to take her out or something. But it's, there was no real
motive there. It was peculiar that he was in town during that time period that she went missing,
but so was everybody else, really. Didn't she break up with him first, though? And then he broke
up with her after? Yes. So he claims? Yes. And that's all, that's all, like he said, she said,
relationship drama. It is. If you're overseas fighting across the fucking world and your
girlfriends in the same little town, like jumping around from guy to guy, sleeping with students,
you would be fucking distraught. Yeah, I think that it was really, Marcus Harper had moved on
in his head. He still cared about her, but he didn't want to be in that kind of relationship with her
anymore, just like anyone else wouldn't want to be in their own circumstances. So it was nothing
really suspicious to me about that. You know, the only thing that was like odd, really, was that he
was in town, you know, doing the police ride along that night. But he's out about held up, right?
Yeah. And that happened. But you know, what's even crazier, really, is that he was doing that,
and she still got murdered under everyone's nose. Like the town is not very big. Right. It's just
like the timing and the there's just like the exact moment it had to all happen. It's just so
really weird and just like it's amazing how confusing it had the whole story is and how
many people are involved and how hard it was to figure this out in such a small little town where
everybody knows each other. Yeah, it's it's like I've spent more time than I'd like to admit
trying to put these pieces together. And I can never get them all the way there. And I've just
kind of come to terms with the fact that, you know, we'll never know the full story. And even if
Beau comes back with a new story or Ryan does, do we even believe them at this point? No. Right.
And so I think we'll never know unless there's some other big revelation that
I don't even know where that would come from. Yeah, man, it's wild. And it's I feel like it's
rare to where these outlandish mystery murder stories don't have some extreme element of
corruption of either from law enforcement or some other angle with authority is covering
shit up and shit like that. So I think it's wild that this thing does this story has none of that.
It just has incompetence. Yeah, there's a difference between there's corruption and
there's incompetence. This is incompetence. And I think that you could assign that to a bunch
of different people. And collectively, that created a nightmare scenario of going down
the wrong rabbit holes for a decade that could have been prevented. Did Beau and Ryan get they
got life in prison, both of them? So Ryan, he got found not guilty. So he's free. He is getting
free. He's still serving going to serve some time for what he took place in that he admitted to,
which was destroying the evidence burning Tara's body with Beau. And Beau was arrested a couple
years ago. He went on this, you know, psychoterror and had, you know, abducted these girls and held
them at gunpoint and raped them just out of seemingly nowhere. And so he's currently serving
time for that right now. He'll probably be in jail forever. Eventually time for this.
I don't think that they've they've done that yet. Like, wow, they've been able to postpone that.
And they're going to they're going to hit him with, you know, the most they can hit him with.
But right now, I think he's serving at least 20 in prison. And he'll never see the light of day,
because they're going to hit him with everything else. And maybe it's another 20. If he comes out
ever, he'll be an old man with no friends and no life and no money. What does Tara's parents
or family say about those guys? What do they believe that they're the ones who did it?
They definitely believe that they're involved. I think that they believe
that Ryan Duke did it. They believe that Ryan did it. Yes. And I think that they, you know,
they believe the the GBI's narrative. And they want someone to go down for their daughter's murder.
I completely sympathize with that. And so if they believe that Ryan Duke is the murderer,
obviously, they'd be very upset that he was found not guilty for it. But I think that's more
of a testament of how law enforcement treated this case and how they wasted five years not
making their case any stronger. I don't think the blame can go anywhere else there. What else are
you doing? What other kind of stuff are you doing such this? Are you working on how many podcasts
are you working on right now? Man, we had so many. So I mean, I've done tons of true crime stuff.
About a year and a half ago, I was, I had this crazy idea of making an investigative show about
UFOs, UAP. And, you know, as a kid, I always just kind of liked the idea. Just sci-fi stuff in
general always intrigued me. Steven Spielberg movies, you name it. And so it really kind of started
as just a passion project, an idea that I was fond of, even just the idea of, you know, what else?
You know, what if there's something else out there and we're not alone? And so I kind of went
down this road of trying to, you know, put together an investigative story that was in the same vein
as the other true crime stories I've told about cold cases and take a similar approach to the
topic of UFOs in modern history and today and really kind of figure out what's really up,
like what's going on. And I found out pretty quickly, you know, through my journey that
there was a lot more meat to this bone than I had really even imagined because I'd never really
gone down the rabbit holes to explore it in this analytical kind of way. And I became,
you know, completely convinced beyond a doubt that there is something otherworldly going on
and it's just happening right there in front of us under our noses and no one cares.
And my goal with my new podcast called High Strange was to make a podcast for the skeptic,
for the non-believer or for someone who's on the fence or someone like me who was like,
yeah, they're probably real, but like, I don't know. And not, you know, forcefully
feed something to someone who might have an aversion right away if it pokes their
belief system a little bit. And so I wanted to kind of take a different approach, lay person's
approach and unpacking some of the most compelling and hardest of the bunk cases in our history
and kind of lay it all out there for you to decide, just like I would a true crime podcast.
And with the goal being that I want you to listen and I understand why people would be
resistant to this idea because it, it, there's a lot of implications that come with it. If you
believe that we're not alone, you know, if you're, if you believe the Bible or you believe this or
that, it might be hard to make all these things fit for yourself. And because of that, some people
just don't want to go there at all. And so I was trying to make something where I was like,
hey, before you tune out, like, let me just, let me just share something with you. And I'm not
going to, you know, forcefully, you know, put this on you, I'm going to spoon feed it to you.
And maybe if we can finish this thing together, we can have a real healthy conversation about
this topic. Because I think that's what it needs is a objective, healthy, normal conversation
across the board with the reality that is interesting. So how do you take the approach
with that documentary? How do you start it? My first, the first thing I wanted to do was
go find some of the most compelling stories in modern history that have, that are still technically
unsolved or haven't been debunked, right? And interview the people who experienced it. And so
I interviewed Travis Walton in episode one and two. And, you know, his story is he went missing
for five days in the woods with this logging crew, came back with this crazy story of being on a
spaceship. And I met with him in person with my producer, Mike. And, you know, by the end of the
conversation, we both looked at each other and said, I'm like, do you believe him? And he's like,
yeah, I'm like, me too. And so I was able to walk away with my personal assessment of,
even if he was lying, I can tell you for sure that Travis Walton himself believes it. And there
really is no definitive way to disprove it. And even if, to me, if it was somehow not what they
said it was, the circumstances are so bizarre that the alternative of what could have happened
is almost stranger than what they're saying happened. And to me, that's compelling. And you
can present that kind of case to someone who would be a skeptic and okay, you poke your holes in
this, then you tell me how you feel when you hear this guy talk, you tell me what you think about
this. And I think there's a few cases kind of like that in history, where there's a lot of strong
components to it. And it's really hard to poke that hole that you'd want to poke if you were
some stark nonbeliever of something. Yeah, the odd thing about that phenomenon is that
if these things are some sort of civilization from somewhere else that are visiting us,
they are deliberately only making themselves visible enough to convince someone willing to
believe, but not enough to convince the skeptic. They're not providing enough evidence to convince
somebody who's not willing to believe. They're right on that line. And why is that? And I don't
know if I believed, the thing about people like Travis is he definitely believes his own story.
Of course. But does that mean that really happened?
It does not mean that, no.
We don't have evidence that it did happen. We don't have evidence that it didn't happen,
other than the fact that he's told the same story and apparently he has a couple other kids that
were there that verify everything that happened, according to his story. But there's definitely
a psychological component to that, where at a point it becomes religious.
Yeah. I mean, it does.
And once you come out with that story and it gets that much attention, why change it?
Yeah, I think that there's definitely an argument to be made that, you know, he's making this up
for whatever reason. And shit, that might even be true. I don't know. But I personally think that
if there's any part of his story that's like completely untrue, it's everything that happened
after they saw this flying saucer in the woods. I think these guys weren't close enough friends
with each other in real life to go to their graves with this, you know, this
packed of lies of them having seen something weird in the woods.
And where was Travis for all those days? If his family was genuinely looking for him, then
he wasn't with them or was his brother in on it? And to what end? It's like,
that part's hard for me to rationalize. Like, he would have had to seize the moment and been like,
I'm going to go run off and hide for five days and come back with a crazy story. Maybe he did that.
But that to me is crazy, too. And it's like, well, where were you? You know, because they were
looking for him. It's like, it was like a manhunt. What year was that? 1975.
That's another weird thing to me is how come this stuff has stopped happening?
I don't think that it stopped happening. There's him, there's Ruiz and Bobway,
there's all these these close encounters of the, what is that, the third kind.
How come we don't hear about this anymore? I don't think that we don't hear about it anymore.
I think that if you look at the past 50 years, you can say, okay, yeah, there's that case,
there's that case, and they've become sort of like the legendary staple cases, you know,
that are synonymous with this topic. But I don't think that, you know, it's ever really stopped.
I also don't think it's a common thing. I haven't heard any of the reports of that.
Reports of what? Close encounters of the third kind, similar to Travis Walton or Ruiz and
Bobway or Betty and Barney Hill. I haven't heard any new cases like that since those
cases, since the 90s, early 90s. But if you even look at that for what it is, it's like, okay,
how far are we zooming out? I don't think that something like the Roswell incident or the
Travis Walton incident is something that happens a lot. If they were really happening,
if those are true, I don't think it's a common thing. There also could be like a lot about it.
50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s. Do you know of any cases after the 90s?
After the 90s. I mean, the Phoenix lights and 2000s, there was a mass sighting.
Right. But I'm talking about like abductions, like abduction encounters.
I mean, there's people who fucking every year claim they've been abducted, but the problem
with that is that how do you prove that, right? And with the Betty Barney Hill case,
what's unique about it is because it's so old, it's like kind of like almost like an origin
story for the abduction phenomenon. And so when I look at that, there's not very many,
I guess, things they could pull this stuff from. They had to either, the idea of a craft floating
there, making no noise, being abducted, experiencing loss of time, how many other places was that
before the Betty Barney Hill case? Not many, not that I'm thinking of at the top of my head
in the 1960s. And so did every other case follow suit with that kind of narrative and was influenced
by that? Or did they really genuinely experience something that not many people had on record
at least experienced yet? And so there's cases where people claim that they've been abducted
as recently as yesterday, probably. But did they really get abducted? Probably not. Was it
sleep paralysis? Maybe. But there's no way to verify their stories really anyway. Like what would
it take for you to believe them anyways? I mean, would it be the 4K video on your iPhone of the
spaceship? I mean, that might do it. But then would you say, that's fake because it looks too real?
Maybe. I'm like, I always kind of joke around with Mike like, I feel like, you know,
what is proof, right? Like what would be enough for anybody? Let's just say today,
like right when I left, there is, you know, on Fox, on CNN, on across the board, on all news
networks, there is a spacecraft landing on the White House lawn, and these aliens are stepping
out and shaking Biden's hand. Well, one, I'd be like, that's suspicious, right? But like, I still
think what would happen is people would say, that's a conspiracy. Then that's not true. Or this is,
in like, doesn't matter what it is, like you're going to believe what you want to believe.
I just think the, you know, I don't know how far the abduction stuff goes. I don't know, like,
to what end the truth, you know, where it ends, I guess. Well, you're starting your series with
Travis Walton. And that was kind of a bold decision. You're not really, you're not really
dipping your toe in. You're kind of jumping in head first. And I was kind of like on the fence
of whether or not I should do that. But I felt like his narrative was so compelling. If I could
just smack you in the face with quite possibly the nuttiest story that there is, and you,
you know, are still here in your seat with your headphones on, then maybe
then you'll definitely finish the series. Interesting. And that was kind of like a,
I'm like, am I going to spook everybody? But I made sure, I tried my best to have like this really
sort of like objective approach to it, where I wasn't taking it or myself too seriously.
And so it felt like a little, you know, soft-handed. And it was, you know, I would say, like,
yeah, that's, that sounds crazy. Like, I would probably say what you're thinking if you thought
it was crazy. So yeah, I don't know where those stories end, or if they're all true or not. But
I do believe that there are, you know, crafts in the sky that aren't from Earth. And that's been
happening for a while. Really? I do believe that, yeah. Which craft specifically? What
what reports do you think aren't from Earth? I mean, there's tons that like I could reference,
but I would say I think that the, the tic-tac stories are definitely something not from Earth.
If, if we're believing the accounts of the Navy pilots and, you know, everyone else in the military
who was genuinely spooked and perplexed by this, I, if we're believing them, then I think that
there's your, there's your biggest account. There's also way better footage of those things.
And I don't know why they won't release that. I mean, maybe it's, you know, top secret,
whatever. If it's a fucking balloon, who cares? But I don't think it's a balloon.
Well, I think if it's a balloon, or if it's some sort of technology that we're developing
secretly, that's why we wouldn't want to release it. I think that's a good reason to keep it secret.
It's always a possibility that what we're seeing sometimes is, you know, our own stuff,
or it's an adversary. Even if it's an adversary, I think that would be a good reason to release it,
right? To, to put this out there so people see what it is, so we can start getting more reports
of it and to expose this sort of technology that we don't understand if it's something that we
really don't know what it is. But if it's something that we have, and we're secretly developing it,
and we don't want other nations to know about, I would imagine that would be a great reason to
keep it secret and not to release the actual good, compelling footage of it.
But then you would, if you were going to go with that theory, then you'd have to add the
anecdote of, well, they lied to us then, because they said they don't know what they are.
But that's what the government does. They lie to us.
I mean, sure. But like, at what point do you believe them now, or do you believe them then,
or do you believe them this time? Right, you can't. You never know.
You know what's like. You never know.
That's a bold statement. So that's either, either the person, you know, that was, you know,
approved that statement, believes that is true, or there's some other like deep,
dark, like small, black operation that would, you know, that's going on that like,
is developing technology that like our smartest F-18 pilots don't know about.
There definitely is. That definitely exists.
Sure. But like, to what end as well? Like, do we think that they're, like, we've reached the point
where we can do stuff that these F-18s can't, like, you know, seemingly defy laws of physics
with things? Have we gone there? I don't know. But that would also have to be one more asterisk
with that way of thinking of that they're all ours, which who knows what they are, but they're
not what we're used to seeing. There's so many different.
And they go back a long time. Right.
And that, to me, is also odd. That's very odd. When you go back to the 50s,
then you start to get freaky. To me, those are the most compelling cases,
because you can go back like as a researcher and you can look up like literally what happened that
day. Right. And we know exactly where technology was to a point. Right. It's a Kodak film picture
that wasn't photoshopped. Right. So what the hell is that thing?
Yeah, I think if anything, I think the sightings and the videos and the accounts from like the
50s and the 60s could be definitely alien. But when it comes to the new stuff, I just don't know.
I don't trust the people that got us into the Iraq war under false pretent.
Yeah, it's harder to believe that stuff now when you see it. Like, even if it's super compelling.
Have you seen, you could find, I don't know if you've seen the article yet, but there's an
article posted on Warzone where the journalist Tyler, if he had his last name, he found out the,
have you ever heard, give some context, have you ever heard of Ryan Graves, the Navy fighter pilot
who recounts seeing these objects on his radar? Yeah, I actually spoke to him on the High Strange
podcast. Okay. He recounts seeing this thing or not him seeing it, but he saw it on his radar.
But one of the guys that he was flying with saw a something he described as a cube inside of his
sphere. Yep. You remember that? Yep. What do you think about that? That's just weird. Yeah.
I'll be honest, like my reaction to that when he described that to us for the podcast was like,
I'm going to text you something, Jordan. That sounds like, you know, oddly specific. Right.
And it's like, you know, you have this sort of trope idea, this Hollywood image in your head from
all the, you know, sci-fi movies over generations that it's this flying saucer all the time.
And not something that is maybe none of those things at all. Like, what would that be? I don't
know. Like you could speculate, but like, it doesn't sound like a craft. Also, it sounds like
nothing we've ever had ever. So like, is it like a energy thing? Is it like a portal? Like, is it like
a drone that looks really cool? Like, I don't know. Yeah. So, so this article that was done by this
guy on the war zone, he basically discovered the patent that was, I think, approved in the 80s,
I think, for a radar deflecting device that is basically propelled into the atmosphere.
Does it look like it?
Via a submarine. It's a balloon with a radar deflector inside. Go down, you can actually
see the diagram for the pilot. Oh, weird. Yeah.
So, it's a tetrahedron. Is that the right word? But it can easily be mistaken for a cube if
you're flying by it really fast. Yeah. I mean, it looks kind of similar.
And they were developed during the Cold War and they were actually tested over Cuba.
So, why would these things be floating out here now in their airspace without their knowing?
Right. And the interesting thing is, is that they only started seeing them once they upgraded
their radar in their F-18. Yes.
So, they could essentially be testing their own stuff on their own radar because they,
essentially, it's like deflecting the radar was working on the old radar when they,
when they upgraded instantly they started seeing them.
Yeah, we're not going to tell you it's there. You tell us if you see anything as like the test of
scroll down. It actually shows you everything about the patent. So, can you zoom in on that?
Is there, are there any images of the real thing?
US, US patent number 2463-517 titled Airborne Corner Reflector.
Interesting. Yeah, you can do a deep dive on all of this stuff. It's literally on use USPTO.
Yeah, you never know. Like it could totally just be this thing, right? Something that we
don't have much knowledge of that is not alien but foreign enough to spook a Navy fighter pilot.
Right. So, what they were doing was they were deploying these things from submarines
over Cuba and then they were like shooting like phony radar signals trying to confuse
just scramble stuff and like scramble Soviet radar. Yeah, yeah.
During the Cold War. That's wild. That's a good find.
So, there's lots of things, man. I don't know. Ever since the Tic Tac and the, and this thing,
I just have been super skeptical that, you know, this is, and then the recent thing that came out
a couple days ago that pilot shot over. Well, what was that recent one, Jordan?
What was that? It was like in Venezuela or somewhere like that.
Or the Colombian one. Columbia. That was where. Oh, yeah. I like that one. Yeah.
I mean, it does look cool. I'll give them that. I don't think that shit is aliens. I think that's
got to be our technology. And maybe it is, but that's a very UFO looking thing, right?
They didn't, yeah. They made it look like we want them to look like them.
Yeah. Yeah, it looks like a manta ray or a disc flying. I don't think that it's like a traditional
balloon because I feel like it would move differently if a plane passes it like that.
Yeah. How fast is that plane going? Like a hundred miles an hour?
I think so. Something like that. How fast would something be if you're driving on the highway
and you passed a sign? How fast would it be going compared to if you play that back again?
And to say it doesn't seem to be moving very fast. Yeah. So I don't think it is moving very
fast. It optically appears that way, but it's not. Right. But I think it is moving.
Right. Yeah. It's just also super high up there. Like it's like, you know, maybe it's not an alien
spaceship, but I don't think it's a balloon that flew away from the party city parking lot either.
You know, else it's super high up there. Then it looks like a craft, like a thing that does
something. So yeah, so that to me is either like some advanced balloon or like technology.
The thing is there's shit that we don't know what it looks like that we are currently developing
just like the example I just showed you. That thing that there's a literal U.S. patent on that
no one has ever seen before. And these fighter pilots weren't even aware that these things existed.
So how do you kind of, I guess, rationalize why there is a UAP task force? Why do anybody
in the, or does anybody in the government feel like it's an important thing to explore these
unknown objects in the sky that had been ruled out pretty much everywhere else if it just was
total bullshit? My theory evolves almost weekly on this, but right now I think it's a limited
hangout. Limited hangout? Yeah. I think basically it's just, that's like a dumb CIA, it's CIA jargon
for just a distraction. We're going to give you a little bit of truth here to distract everybody
from what's really going on. And what's really going on, you think? I think it's, I think it's
secret projects that we have going on through stuff like DARPA or Skunkworks that we're developing
and that we're testing that we don't want foreign entities to know about. So is your feeling that
none of them would be something otherworldly? I don't know, but the more shit that comes out,
like all these crazy acronym tasks force, all these people talking about it and people making
careers on this stuff and the more shit that comes out about it and the more headlines I see in the
New York Times, the more I start to lean towards limited hangout and that is just a distraction.
Yeah, I mean, false flag. I just don't like instinctually like to give the government too
much credit. I don't think that they're that smart. I don't think that they're smart enough to
plot this whole like, you know, deep campaign to make you look over here and do this. I think that
they're not that smart. They've done it. They've attempted to do that before, but they also didn't
succeed. So it's like, when did they attempt it? Just like Project Blue Book stuff. Like, you know,
like, sure, some people were probably affected by their misinformation campaigns and, you know,
thinking that you were loony or you're crazy if you saw something in the sky that you thought was
an alien spaceship. But like, people never stopped thinking that really. Some people did, but like,
it's like, what is the, at what point is it like, is something true? Like, even if it's 0.1%,
the universe is so big, it's like, it wouldn't be impossible for it to have happened.
Definitely not. And so it's kind of, so with that in mind, it's hard to kind of,
I guess, break down the things that we see here on earth. But it's something that's been
talked about for literally centuries. Like, as far as you go back in history, they're describing
shit like people still describe they see in the sky. Right. And so like, you go back far enough,
none of those things existed. Right. We weren't even flying planes yet. So definitely. And so
there's no doubt that they're, that the government has some pretty cool badass stuff up their sleeve.
I don't know if it's stuff that, you know, I don't know if it's stuff that they've,
we've developed on our own. If it's stuff that we've found, that we've sort of
reverse engineered, figured out how to use. Maybe. It could be both. I don't know where the
trip is. How do you feel about that whole theory of, because that's kind of the low key rumblings
around, you know, other journalists that I've talked to, there, there's a common,
there's this common knowledge or idea that the government has, like alien spacecraft,
and they're reverse engineering it. I think it's totally possible. Yeah. I think it's totally possible.
And they're doing a damn good job of keeping it secret.
Yes. I think that for that to be such a big secret, I don't think that many people know about it.
I don't think that they're sitting up there, you know, Congress or whatever,
you know, lying through their teeth. I think that they just don't know. I think that there's a
little like private company that a few people know about. Yeah. There's a company called Betel.
Is that what it's called? Is it one in Vegas? There's a, no, no, there's a company called
B-A-T-T-E-L-L-E. If you look it up, they, they have most of these contracts to work on these
things. Actually, just recently. Are they rumored to be one of the ones that? I just learned about
Betel recently through another podcast I did, but these guys have some of these crazy futuristic
anti-gravity contracts. Oh, cool. And like even, even like light photon
like propulsion shit, like stuff that you can't wrap your mind around. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That
they're doing and it's all, it's all. That's badass. Based on, based on national security and war.
Man, I hope they're doing that, except it'd be pretty damn cool. My friend, the guy who was just
on here, he recently went to the UAP that hearing a couple of days ago and he was talking to one
of the congresswoman about this and she had never even heard about Betel and he was like talking
to her about it, trying to like explain it and teach her about it. And she'd go, oh, we got to
go there. I never heard of this before and it's crazy because this is like one of the longest
standing like. Yeah, like you maybe, you maybe should have heard of this one. Yeah. I'm on the
fence about it. I don't know. What do you think about Bob Lazar? So, to me, Bob Lazar is so frustrating
for two reasons. One, if he's lying, why are we still talking about it today? That's annoying
that he's still like, it feels like there's still some gray area there. And two, if it's true, that
we're considering the fact that he's lying. Because if he's telling the truth, it's like, damn, that's
all the information you ever wanted to know about like UFOs in Area 51 is right there.
My biggest problem with Lazar, he's a very believable guy when you hear him talk.
Very believable. He seems nice. You want to believe him. But the whole college thing,
I can't let it go. The fact that he lied about where he went to college. And it's like, if you're
someone like me who's gone and, you know, investigated a cold murder case, these would be
red flags in someone's character. And if you lied about this, where do your lies stop? He has,
to my knowledge, no one's ever asked him outright why he's lied about his background.
And I would just love to know his response. Maybe you have a really good response, but I can't
imagine what it would be that would make me feel better. I think that...
Well, he would have a good reason to lie about MIT, right? Because MIT has a lot of secret programs.
Yeah, but like he's not in the yearbooks, the teachers that he named were like teachers somewhere
else. Right, that's true. And it's like, okay, like we're talking about like a long time ago.
They didn't just scrub you from like the digital database. Right. Like, are you implying that
they like erased you? Well, someone there would remember you. Anybody, right? And the fact that
there's nobody, I think that he just said a lie one time, a long time ago in the 90s,
not really thinking about, you know, what we'd be saying 30 years from now. Right.
And I think he just avoids it at all costs. And that makes me question everything else
about his story. Yeah, for me, the thing is Jeremy Corbell really kind of like ruins it for me
when I saw it. How so? He ruined it for me specifically when he debated Stanton Friedman
about it. And Stanton Friedman is a legendary physicist. Okay. I highly recommend that watching
that debate on YouTube. It's fascinating. You haven't seen it yet. Stanton Friedman questions him on
the degrees too. And he goes, why did he lie about this stuff? And I think Jeremy's response was,
come on, man, haven't you ever lied to try to get a chick before? Okay. And he made the case like,
look, we've made multiple offers to Bob. I don't know. I think that interview was close to
seven years ago, that debate I was referring to. And Stanton said that like, look, we've
reached out to him many times, offered to debate him on it to talk to him about it. He won't talk
to anyone that knows anything about physics. He'll only talk to layman people about this stuff.
He'll only talk to George Knapp, Joe Rogan, people that aren't physics, don't have physics
backgrounds and don't understand physics language. Right. So you're saying like the physics in what
he's presenting don't necessarily make sense according to another physicist. That's what
Stanton was saying. Which would still be an opinion versus an opinion that's not like this guy is
like, hey, I've built one of these things and that's not how you do it. Right. And that's what
Eric Weinstein is saying too. I mean, Eric Weinstein publicly reached out and offered to
debate him or to even have a conversation with him about this stuff. I wish that would happen.
And he's never done it. He's never talked. There's no documented. That bothers me. I don't like that.
And the other weird thing to me too is he's always had a handler. Like before he had John Lear,
or a Gene Huff, rather, John Lear story is weird too. But the Gene Huff thing,
and now Jeremy Corbell, like anywhere he goes, even if it's on Larry King or Rogan or whatever,
he's always got this person right here to basically like fill in the gaps for him.
And I actually, I know Jeremy Corbell personally. I've never asked him straight up about
the Lazar College thing, but now I want to. And I mean, I really would rather ask Lazar himself.
Like I want to know not what Jeremy says or this person says in response. I want to like
look someone in the eye and ask them a hard question and see what they say. Because that,
like that's the linchpin to me in most of Bob Lazar's story. And I can't really reason with the
idea that, well, maybe that part he lied about, but the rest he didn't. I don't know.
And then there's the fact that he got a job at Area 51, right? So he got a job at Area 51
right after his wife's killed herself. And he married somebody else also like days before
his wife committed suicide. Yeah, he's a weird dude. He's going to work at the most top secret
fucking base in the United States of America. You don't think that that would be a red flag
into hiring you? Yeah, it's hard for me to see why he was the best pick for those kinds of reasons.
Like, wouldn't you try to avoid situations like that? Absolutely. They would never fucking hire
somebody whose wife committed suicide. Unless there was some other motive to it. And it was also
the tie to the Hell's Angels that his wife had that she went to jail because of some sort of
something happened with the Hell's Angels. Yeah, there's all kind of weird stuff with like his
personal life that's odd. And then the other thing is Jeremy Corbell's documentary. I don't
know if this is right. This is what I've heard from multiple people in red. So take it for what
it's worth. But in the beginning of his film, where they're talking about the FBI raiding him
for having element 115, apparently that was, there was a FOIA done on that FBI raid. And it was
specifically because somebody just bought some sort of chemical from United Nuclear and used
it to murder somebody like their wife or something. Yes, that is true. And then basically, so Jeremy
admitted that was true. You made that up? No, that is actually true that there was a murder
investigation. Right. But I actually do still find this one a little bit odd. Maybe like,
why are they going pulling out all the stops? Like, I would love to know
exactly how they pinpointed this specific element and tracked it all the way to Bob Lazar.
That's a convenient, you know, person to track it to if anything he's saying is true.
And I don't really know what happened with that. I mean, he didn't go to jail for that.
Right. But like, you could easily look at that as like a good excuse to go raid his place or just to
fuck with him, ruffle his feathers. It's just still weird. Like, it's like, you guys still care
about this guy or something. Or what are the chances that he gets wrapped up in some weird
murder investigation? But no, everything's good, though. But I don't know one who's been,
house has been raided for some element that they have. How did they even track that?
It was just a chemical somebody bought, like a common chemical somebody used to kill their wife.
And it was the guy literally bought it from his website. That's why. Okay. Apparently. Allegedly.
Then why isn't he imprisoned for that? Because it's not illegal to sell the chemical just because
you sell bleach. So what were they looking for? I forget. I don't know what the name of the chemical
was, but I guess they were looking for maybe you can find it. I don't think they even said what
they were looking for. But they mean the murder investigation is why they were there is what
they said. But I'm like, what were they looking for exactly? That's a good point. Like, if you
bought bleach from Ace Hardware and you went looking for more bleach, I don't know, why is the FBI
going to raid Ace Hardware? That's what I'm saying. Maybe maybe maybe because he's maybe they just
needed to prove that he sold it or something. I don't know. Maybe. But like, what would they
have needed like a physical printout of something? And here's here's another question I have about
him. If he is this whistleblower, right, if you blew the whistle on this most the government's
one of the government's most top secret programs in history. Yeah. Why is why is Jeremy on that
interview or that debate with Stan Friedman bragging about how Bob still has all these
federal government contracts with the company United Nuclear? Edward Snowden, does he have
any government contracts to any of these other government contracts? I don't think so. No,
they're ready to scoop that guy up whenever they could. Right. Yeah. So if he is this whistleblower
on the government program, why would the government still be doing these secret
government contracts with him? Yeah, what is he even doing? Or what is he even saying he's doing
with them? Jeremy, you have to pull up the interview, but Jeremy Corbell is basically pull
up the Jeremy Corbell, Stan Friedman interview, but he says at multiple times during the interview
that he's doing all kinds of crazy cutting edge science based studies for the government,
for secret government programs. Yeah, it's like, it's one of those things where, you know,
everything can't be true. Like, it's like, it can't all be true. And so if you look at bizarre,
Lazar through that lens, it's like, same thing. Like, it can't all be true. Yeah.
Bob Lazar, during your talking, I don't remember where it is, maybe go like a quarter of the way
through. Now that we had that, he said, great, that's going to be, was, well, let's say I have
his file, he graduated in August, not with his class. That usually means you failed the course,
you know. Okay. He took a lot of science courses, didn't he? She says chemistry.
What else? Chemistry. Okay. Was he valedictorian of his class?
It doesn't mean you failed the course. It may be you just took, you didn't take a class and do
the required credits. That's again, a thing that doesn't quite make sense. But I feel you.
Let me finish it. He didn't have any other science courses. Then I asked, was he valedictorian?
No. She laughed. He's talking about his high school teacher. And I have to give you the background.
Why, yes, that question. I was valedictorian in my high school class in Lyndon, New Jersey,
1951, a long time ago. And I was accepted in MIT, except I couldn't afford to go.
Tuition was $950. What is it, $27,000 now? So I resented the kind of implication that this guy
had graduated from one of the top schools in the country. And MIT qualifies. Was he in the top 10
his class? No. How many were there in my team? No. Now she's laughing. Top 100? No. He was like
265 out of 366, which is the bottom third. Can we cut to the chase here? The point is that
the notion that he went to MIT doesn't stand up. Nobody could find him in a yearbook. None of five
people there, I talked to him, including the registrar, had any connection with him. And he
was in the bottom third of his class. And MIT admissions office says you got to be in the top
20%. They'll bend if it's more than 15. So he was lying about having gone to MIT. I'd called Caltech.
They never heard of him. He was asked in Rachel Nevada, home of the infamous little alien,
to name some of his professors. He said, let's see, Bill Dockson will remember me from Caltech
physics. I looked in my directory. There's Bill Dockson. I called him. He never taught at Caltech,
only at Pierce Junior College, which is a long way intellectually, if not geologically,
from Caltech. He checked. Bob had taken a course under him at the very same time when he was
supposedly at MIT, 2,500 miles away. And if you can go to MIT, you don't go to Pierce Junior College.
Right. So we've got some dissimulation. Is that a good word on it? Love to say something about that.
Can Jeremy speak to that now? Sure. I've got something else. You've got to give me a second.
Basically, let's just get to the crux of it. The crux of it is, none of this is really the point.
I mean, really, the point is, how did he know that, go ahead and clap. That's a good one. Bob,
that's for you. None of this is really the point. Okay, the point is this. How did Bob know that
on Wednesday over Papu Strylake that there'd be something? I didn't say he watched the whole thing,
but has he ever really defend the college thing or no? No, earlier in this interview,
when he's asking him about it again, his verbatim response was, haven't you ever lied to get a
chick? Okay. So Jeremy seems like he knows that it's weird and it's not a good look for him,
but he just doesn't want to talk past it. He's looking past it, right? He's kind of accepted,
like maybe Bob lied, but I don't care. I have a horror time looking past that. Yeah, I do.
And then there was another college called Pacifica University that was convicted,
and they got shut down because they were allegedly a degree mill. They were selling
degrees, and he had a degree from that place too. There's so many crazy stories. Yeah,
why has he had this kind of convincing narrative, and he's a believable, nice looking guy,
and all these weird parts of his past, you can't overlook that stuff if you're trying to figure
out if someone's telling the truth or not. Right. But I mean, if I'm Jeremy Corbell,
I'm willing to avoid the truth to tell a great story and to create a great documentary because
it is a great documentary. And it's a hell of a story. Yeah. You know, it's like a party
wants it to be true. Yeah, absolutely. And then he left out John Lear and he left out Gene Huff,
which is really interesting. I don't know why he left those guys out because those guys were
really important parts of the story. I mean, John Lear was literally like the beginning of this
whole thing. Yeah, I wish I could sit down with Bob Lazar and ask him these kind of questions
and just see what the response is and really kind of have a conversation about everything and
be able to make my own personal assessment that probably won't ever happen. But
hey, Bob, if you're listening, it's on the table. It'd be cool. Yeah. Well, listening to
all of his interviews, man, I was sold. I was completely sold. Very believable. His body language,
the way he talked about shit. Yeah. That's like, that's the annoying part. He's like, oh, I just
like, it seems like he's telling the truth. You want to believe the guy, but you can't overlook
obvious things. You can't. Or they need to be addressed head on. Right. Like if Bob Lazar told
me that, look, dude, I lied because of XYZ, I might buy that actually. But okay. I still think that
it was weird. But if you're going to like dodge it or seemingly dodge the question
and not just come out and say, hey, like all this shit I said is true. This part isn't. I'm
sorry. But this part's still true. I feel like you should do that if you're him. Yeah. I feel
like the next big documentary has to be somebody that actually blows the Bob Lazar story out of
the water. Because the story of Bob Lazar has been told. It's been done. It's the biggest podcast
that Joe Rogan ever did. There's a freaking incredible documentary that Jeremy made. Somebody
has to look at it and really pick it apart and convince people. It's going to be hard to do. I
think he's kind of elusive like that. It seems like he has a small circle. There's people around him,
I think, that could know. Yeah, I think so too. But what you need though is Lazar's responses to
the hard questions. Right. Like that. You know what I mean? Exactly. Even for me, for every other
listener or viewer. It'll be very telling if he never does that. If he never takes the opportunity
to talk to somebody who understands physics. Yeah. Then I can't wholeheartedly believe
anything until that's done. Right. That's the thing. Getting back to the beginning of this
conversation is like once you start to gain this freedom of creating whatever you want and posting
it online and being able to be an independent, free creator basically just reporting whatever
is interesting to you. You have to remember not to just lean into things because you get the money
or because you get the clicks on it. A lot of people do that and it's extremely obvious when
people start to just lean in and lean in and lean in until they've completely forgotten who they were.
I mean, the news does that every damn day. Yeah. It's like every headline, every click,
every YouTube thumbnail. It's like everyone is about the clicks.
You can't do that. You can't operate with that mentality if you're truly objectively
investigating anything. Right. You really can't. It doesn't mean that you don't button it up and
make it sexy and make it something premium that you trust or enjoy but you cannot fall for the
bullshit because then you're putting out bullshit. Right. You can't not just fall for the
bullshit. You can't fall for your own bullshit. For your own bullshit. Just try it just because
you're seeing so much success in one thing or one narrative. That's cheap. That's low. I don't know
if you follow sports at all but the greatest example, the greatest modern example of this to
me is Skip Bayless. Yeah. What he has become over the years from being a sports reporter to just
being this fucking clown talking head. It's bizarre. It's so obvious how fake his narratives are and
how he just does that because it's part of a show that he's putting on. Yeah. Like the hating little
like brawn shit. Like that blows my mind. I'm like, is this just a gag or what? It is. It's so.
It's also like the brawn is really fucking good. What are you talking about? Right.
Yeah. It's so obviously just a fabricated narrative that he's created this just,
he's created this giant labyrinth of people that love to hate him and he's seen so much
success from him. That's his thing. He just leans into it and he doesn't want to try to
challenge his own beliefs anymore. He's just going to keep leaning into it. Just keep saying that and
saying more of that and doubling down on that and distorting that even more and going further and
further down that rabbit hole. Right. When you know it could have been something else. Right.
And I see a lot of that in the UFO topic, man. I like to see more. I like to see more of an open
conversation about it. I like to see more people talking about it and making content on it like
you are and other people are like I even am. But I think that's good. I think that's good that
people are doing that and building an economy around it. I think that's important. But at the
same time, I hate grifters. I hate to see grifters. There's just been like all the most of the content
over the years in the UFO space has been really geared and targeted towards
believers of something. Fans of UFOs and aliens. I get it. It's like it is fun.
But at what point do we try to have a healthy, realistic conversation? You can't just target
the people who are already going to talk about it. We need to expand the conversation. We need
more people in this room. Yeah. And that was one of my goals with High Strange was to
try to expand or elevate the conversation, push it forward in any way at all. Where if you were
someone who wasn't thinking very open-minded about really anything, that you maybe you're a little
bit more open-minded about anything. Because the reality is I don't know what's true and what's not
true. I don't. But I also know that we don't know everything yet. We learn so much every day.
You just look back in history. It's very obvious. I think that we forget that sometimes that we're
still learning. And there's something to all of this. I believe that. And someone else may not
believe that. That's fine. But you should still be in the conversation. Have you seen James Fox's
new documentary, Moment of Contact? No, I heard it's good though. Oh my gosh. Is it good?
Fucking amazing. Yeah, that's on the list. It's one of the best documentaries on this topic I've
seen in a long time. Probably since the phenomenon. His work is incredible. Damn, yeah. No, I'm pumped
for that. But there was like literally, there's like hundreds of witnesses in this little town in
Virginia, Brazil that saw a live alien running around the town. Yeah, I know the story. Yeah.
So what do you make of that story though? I think that one's real. Right. Some of them you're like,
well, what was it then? There's no way all of these people came out and talked about this. These
military people, these cops, these... And those sisters or whatever? Like school girls, walking home
from school. What's their incentive to totally fabricate this thing? All the people, I mean,
he had so much, he had to do so much work in convincing to get these people to go on camera
and talk. Isn't there allegedly like a video of it? Like rumor to exist, but it's, you know,
where is it though? I don't know. Right, there is. Well, what happened right after this is that
apparently these quote unquote men in black came and started knocking on people's door,
offering them money and basically saying, you know, I hope you and your kids have a long and
healthy life. Here's some money we're going to offer you and let us know if you need anything.
Weird. So like weird sort of like intimidation tactics that were being done by people that
seem to be Americans according to these people in Brazil. Yeah. I mean, there was a military
response to the whole thing. You guys therefore landed there the next day. Yeah. Also kind of odd,
right? It's like, what are you doing? Why are y'all doing all this if it's absolutely nothing?
Right. You know, and what is the lady's name? The New York Times reporter?
Leslie King. Leslie King. Yeah. She just was on video a couple of days ago,
confirmed, she said that she talked to some of her sources in the government, I guess in the
Pentagon and they, her sources according to her said that the story is true. Really? Yeah.
That's, that's pretty, pretty big. That's pretty fucking big. I know Leslie pretty well. Do you
really? I've interviewed her a few times for High Strange and she's a, she's a straight shooter
really. Like, and she has spent a lifetime developing pretty strong relationships with people.
So, I mean, if Leslie's saying she heard that, I believe that she did hear that.
Yeah. Find that Leslie King. It's like a three second, it's like a five second video of her
talking about that. It's while she's sitting next to James while he's telling the story about this.
I want to see the video, man. If it exists, I hope we get to see it one day. Yeah. I mean,
it's just like another thing is like the crashed flying saucer thing seems so bizarre to me. Like,
how do they crash this thing? If they're so advanced, how are they crashing it? And this,
and this fucking living entity or a biological, biologically engineered creature is here. Like,
we've crashed our planes and lived. Yeah, right. Travis Barker survived a plane crash.
He's drumming his brains out. So, I think it's possible. I think it's like, I don't think that
because you could be so technologically advanced or something that there isn't some element of error.
I don't think they meant to crash. If they've ever actually crashed here,
I guarantee you they were like, oh shit, we fucked up. Leslie King, James Fox.
Um, just type that in and see if that comes up. Click on videos. I might have seen this on Twitter.
There it is. That one. Yep.
But I would love Leslie to talk about what she's been, if you wouldn't mind. Turn it up,
give me some more volume. I don't want to push the envelope here. So, if I'm going to say something
that's going to make you uncomfortable, you tell me. Because she reached into some deep people
that deep, deep in her back pocket, that it made some confirmations for her.
Took James 20 or like 12 or 15 years to make this documentary.
Geez. 15 years. I mean, that's incredible. I did speak to a number of people, you know,
with high clearances or been in this issue for years and years and years, some of the insiders
that I consult with. And I mean, it basically verified that this happened. You know, it's a
movie like that comes out. You could see all kinds of people reacting and saying,
oh, are you crazy? Something creatures? You know, no, it's the opposite. These insiders were
confirming this. Um, so that was really exciting, really exciting. It was great for James. Yes.
Told you. And the fact that there, there was US involvement and most likely, uh, debris and
even bodies from that case reside now in the United States. I'm not able to find out where.
I can't get that information, but never give up. And I also wanted to say about the medical. I mean,
I was able to talk to this doctor in Brazil who he didn't actually perform. No, he was the doctor
of showing me in the hospital. And so he knew a lot about what caused his death. And the autopsy
report was really interesting because of the nature of the microorganisms that were found on him,
which have all kinds of suggestive components of coming from some kind of a non-human creature.
And I still have to do more, more work on that, but it's very evidential.
That's the thing that I wish we had more information on was the toxin that killed.
I believe it was Marco Chirisi. I don't, I'm not sure about that one. I think that could have been,
basically, they killed him because they didn't want him to talk. Which one was that one?
He was the guy, he was the cop who actually handled the alien. Oh yeah, and he got messed up from it
or something? Yeah, he literally died like less than 24 hours later of complete immune system
shut down. There are, I mean, dozens of stories kind of similar to that where there's like, you
have people claiming that if you get too close to something or there's something
unsafe for humans with certain types of interactions with either UAP or extraterrestrials.
I mean, the military was even looking like into that, studying that, like as part of their...
Really? Yeah, that was in their, I mean, their previous, the one that Lou Elizondo was a part of,
whatever they want to call it now, I don't know. But yeah, they were researching UFOs and part of
their study was into like if they've harmed us or in instances where people have claimed that they
experience some sort of harm or even like sexual encounters and stuff like that.
Like they were legitimately exploring these kinds of claims. And I mean, I feel like that would
just be a tremendous waste of time and money if there's zero chance that it's any of it's true.
Right. Unless they're just big sci-fi buffs, I don't know.
Yeah, it's crazy, man. There's so much to it. There's so much to it. And I wish I,
you know, I don't know. Like I said before, the more I see big publications talking about it,
that have ties to the Pentagon and the Pentagon releasing stuff and the more I get suspicious.
And also the more Annie Jacobson books I read, the more suspicious I become.
It's so easy just to like fall down into this mess, this web of like complete nonsense. I mean,
in all sense, we just don't definitively know anything, right? Like we don't definitively know
enough to stop racking your brain on it. And if you rack your brain too hard on anything,
drive yourself crazy, you might enter the conspiracy hand or the, you know,
some nonsense might come a spewing out of your mouth before you know it.
Right. Well, I love the quote that, what's the difference between the truth and a conspiracy
theory? It's six months. It's so true, though. Dude, well, thank you again for doing this.
Had fun. Dude, that was awesome, man. Thank you for having me out here.
I guess tell people where they can find your podcast and follow you online and all that stuff.
Yeah. So I'm Payne Lindsey. My social media, Instagram, Twitter is just at Payne Lindsey.
And my new podcast that investigates the UFO phenomenon in American history is called High
Strange. It's an eight part series. It's available now wherever you listen to your podcast.
Sounds fascinating, man. Thanks again.
Thank you so much, man. I appreciate it. Hell yeah, man. Cheers.
Good night, everybody.
