Hello world! Today's guest is Ben Mezrik. Ben is a major international New
York Times best-selling author. He likes to write books about young prodigies who
make tons of money. Many of his projects have been turned into feature films
such as The Social Network and 21. One of his latest projects is called Bitcoin
Billionaires which is about the Winklevoss twins. The two brothers who founded
the Harvard Connection website that Mark Zuckerberg stole and eventually
turned into Facebook. Anyways, this podcast is eye-opening and gives a
unique perspective on Zuckerberg and the way he does business. That's my sales
pitch for this podcast. Please welcome Ben Mezrik.
So cool man, I mean let's just jump right into it. So you've authored many
super interesting books, lots of which have been turned into feature movies like
the movie 21, The Social Network. And didn't you write for the X-Files at one
point? Yeah, so early early early in my career I worked for the X-Files. I wrote
a book for them. So it was like a standalone thriller starring Mulder and
Scully. So this was a long time ago. But yeah, I started off my career writing
techno thrillers, medical thrillers. I wanted to be Michael Crichton. That was
kind of my goal. And nobody read those. So they didn't do very well. And it wasn't
until I started writing nonfiction that my career kind of took off. But yeah,
the X-Files is one of the first things that I worked for. Yeah.
So Mayes, did you ever work with Vince Gilligan?
I mean, phone-wise, you know, they were up in Vancouver shooting a show. So I went
up there once. But I wasn't, you know, on set or anything like that.
You get pitched a lot of stories, I assume, every day, every week from
different people. Out of all like the different stories and ideas that get
thrown across your desk all the time, how do you choose which ones to pursue?
Yeah, I mean, it's tricky. So basically, ever since I wrote bringing down the
house about the MIT Blackjack team, and that book kind of exploded among
college kids. And so after that book came out and then the movie came out,
people would just email me or send things to my Twitter. I would get pitched
two stories a week. And usually, you know, it's somebody in prison trying to
try to make their case or it's some story that isn't going to be, you know,
something personal, someone wrong them or something like that. So most of the
stories you just know aren't going to be the right story. But for me, I'm always
looking for something that's like big enough that everyone in the world will
recognize it in like one sentence, but not already so well known that you've
already seen it a million times. And so it's that tricky kind of, you know,
sweet spot between something you don't really have to explain to something
that you don't already know. And it also has to be a movie. Like I won't write
a project or even start a book if I don't think it can be a major movie.
And in fact, for the past, I would say 15 books, I've sold the movie before I've
sold the book. So I write a proposal, sell the movie rights and then sell the
book rights and write the book. So I won't even go into it if I don't think
there's something big enough to be a big Hollywood movie.
Wow. And was the first book that you wrote or the first book that you
offered that turned into a movie? Was it the movie 21?
You know, I had a TV movie way back in my crappy techno thriller days.
I wrote a book called Reaper, which was about a computer virus that makes the
jump to the biological world and people start getting sick from their TVs and
from their phones. And yeah, I wrote that a long time ago and that was made into
a TBS's premiere movie back in 2000, I think it was.
Start Antonio Sabato, Jr. and Robert Wagner.
I think you can find it somewhere on eBay.
But my first feature film was 21, which was bringing down the house
and came out, but I think the movie was like 2007, the book was 2002.
So could you give me the sort of the back story on that, how that all came about
and how you got into that story or how that story came across your path?
Yeah. So I was writing, you know, thrillers.
I was trying to be a thriller writer and they weren't going well.
Nobody was reading. I had gotten myself hugely into debt,
hugely into debt, like million and a half dollars in debt.
I had IRS agents calling me.
I was like, you know, I was in a messy situation.
I had something like seventy thousand dollars in credit card debt.
And and I basically had a stack of business school applications that I was
filling in because I was thinking there's only one way I'm ever going to get out
of this whole like Doug and that's to go to business school and go to Wall Street.
So get some more student loans.
I was in a troubled situation.
And then there was this group of MIT college kids.
I was introduced to them by the girl on the team who was a friend of mine from college.
I went to Harvard down the street and they used to hang out in this local bar
called Crossroads in Boston.
And I would go in there and hang out with these MIT kids.
And they were telling me these crazy stories.
The main character's name was Jeff Ma in real life.
And Jeff would tell me these amazing stories about him and his buddies
going to Vegas every weekend and using math to beat the game of Blackjack.
And I went to his house and he had like a quarter million dollars
and a hundred dollar bills just jammed in his laundry.
And I was like, this is really cool.
I got to start going to Vegas.
And so I started going to Vegas with them and I thought this was better
than all the crap I've been writing.
So I wrote it up.
I sent it to my agent and he said, well, nobody really cares about cards
because this was right before Chris Moneymaker won the World Series of Poker.
So cards in Vegas were not yet hot.
This was like 2000 or even the late 90s when I was started writing it.
And so I sold the book for a tiny amount of money and it exploded.
I mean, when it came out, it was just a huge book.
It was on the New York Times list for 63 weeks.
And it was just one of those things that life changing moments.
And and around the same time, I had written an article for Wired magazine
about this MIT Blackjack team and Kevin Spacey read it.
And back then getting a phone call from Kevin Spacey was like a good thing.
And so, you know, Kevin, Kevin called on the phone.
And I remember getting the phone call and I didn't really believe it was Kevin
Spacey, you know, like I ended up hanging up on him.
I thought it was a prank on call, but it really was Spacey.
And he invited me out to LA and said, I want to make this into a movie.
And that became the movie 21.
And so it was kind of this, you know, life changing story.
And suddenly I was a nonfiction writer, not really by choice.
But that was the book that that did well.
And suddenly, you know, everyone started pitching me stories.
And that's where my career really started.
But he didn't have any ulterior motives when he flew you out to LA, right?
You know, Kevin, Kevin was always great with me.
I don't know why it wasn't his type.
Kevin was always wonderful.
He was, you know, a phenomenal actor.
Oh, yeah. You know, he was odd. Kevin's odd.
I mean, you, you know, you knew stuff was going on.
I mean, you thought you didn't know what was really going on.
But you knew he was living, you know, a different lifestyle than maybe you might guess.
But but no, I never really, you know, saw anything that was that was, you know,
what what came later at the time.
He really was helpful.
He set up this movie, said he wanted to star in it.
And that's pretty much the only way to get a movie made, you know,
is to have a major actor or director or someone at an A level involved in it.
And it took years, though, it took five years to get that movie made.
It wasn't like an overnight kind of situation.
But the book was on the list for a couple of years, which was amazing
and and started off my career in a really great way.
Yeah, that's interesting.
He called so he called you directly.
Yeah. So his assistant at the time was a guy named Dana Bernetti.
Dana actually is now a very big producer.
And, you know, we worked together on a lot of projects
and he went on and helped me do the social network.
And then he did 50 Shades of Gray and made a pile of money.
And now it's like a prepper living in Northern California.
But Dana Dana was his assistant and basically found my phone number
and just called with Kevin on the line and said, you know,
we want to we want to make this project.
And, you know, it was a crazy time in my life.
I was massively in debt. I had no money.
I flew out to LA and met with them.
And I remember their pitch, you know, they they took me to the Playboy Mansion.
I landed and basically they drove me straight to the Playboy Mansion
to to woo me into signing the deal with them.
So so it was a kind of a wild sort of Hollywood moment.
And and at the time they I was in mask, you know, I had no money.
And Kevin and Dana said, we want to make a movie.
And I said, great, how much are you going to pay me?
And they said nothing.
And I was like, what do you mean?
They were like, we're going to we're not going to give you anything.
But, you know, we'll make this movie.
And around the same time, another group of producers
offered me seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the rights.
And so I went back to Kevin and Dana and said,
let's see, other people are offering me three quarters of a million dollars.
I'm majorly in debt.
You have to give me something.
And Dana said to me, if I gave you a big check right now, what would you do with it?
And I said, well, you know, I probably spend it
because that's what I was living this crazy lifestyle.
I was blowing through all my money.
That's the way it was living.
So he said, we're going to give you something better.
You can use our name.
You can use Kevin's name.
You can go out there and promote the book.
And we're definitely going to make this movie.
And it's going to be worth way more in the long run.
And so I ended up turning down the three quarters of a million dollars
and taking zero to make the movie with Kevin.
And and it ended up being the right choice
because I booked a today show, went on the today show and talked about it.
And the book just skyrocketed and everything kind of worked out
and the movie got made.
So who knows what would have happened if I'd gone the other route.
But but it was one of those sort of wild Hollywood moments.
Wow, that is super interesting.
What a weird moment.
Going straight to the Playboy Mansion with Kevin Spacey.
You know, it's funny.
Now that sounds very different than it did then.
Yeah, right. Back then it was, you know,
I said I was a kid living in Boston, you know, it was it was a it was a long time ago.
And you walk in there and it's like, wow, at the time,
it was the greatest place to be in the world.
And it was amazing and wild.
And it was it was neat.
I've always sort of looked at Hollywood as this place that I can jump in and out of.
I never wanted to live in LA.
I never wanted to be in Hollywood.
But I love the idea of being a Boston guy living in Boston and being able to sort
of go there when I need to for a couple of days and then and then get back out.
Yeah, I'm with you on that.
Hollywood is a weird place.
I'm not a fan of that area for more than two 24 hours to 48 hours.
I want to get out just like Vegas.
The best days when you get there are the best two days, the day you get there,
the day you leave.
Yeah, nothing ever good happens after 48 hours in Vegas.
It's pretty much all you really need in that.
And yeah, I used to go with a group of people who wouldn't even get hotel rooms.
He would just go and do 48 straight hours and get back on the plane and go back.
So it's a second of town.
How much time did you have to spend in Vegas when you were doing the work
like researching for the story?
And yeah, so for bringing on the house, I spent about six months
going back and forth with the MIT Black Check team, learning how they did it,
you know, carrying money on my body, watching them in action.
And then to write the book, I actually wrote it in Vegas staying
in a different hotel room every night.
So it was actually I wrote the book in about 16 days.
So it was a very quick book, but I wrote it, you know, staying.
I stayed everywhere.
I stayed, you know, the worst hotels and the best hotels because I wanted
to get the feel of what it's like to sort of be a part of the card counting team.
So then when we made the movie, we shot for over a month,
maybe two months in Vegas.
So I was on set for that as well.
So I spent a fair amount of time in Vegas and over the years,
I've always there for five times a year, I would say, you know,
back pre pandemic speaking gigs and and and that sort of thing
brings me to Vegas a lot.
But back when I was writing that book, I would say I spent a lot of time in Vegas.
Yeah.
So what did you contribute during the filming of the movie?
And what what do they like ask from you creatively?
So the author of the book is like the lowest man on the totem pole.
They don't even really want you there.
You're like they they tell you to go hang out at the bar, basically.
I've always said a producer's favorite author is a dead author
because you give them the book and then they can go make the movie.
But 21 was actually a really fun movie to be a part of because it was a whole
all young cast. Everybody involved was really young.
You know, it's Kate Bosworth and Jim Sturges, who was amazing.
And Aaron Yu and, you know, it became very good.
Josh Gad, who went on to play Olaf and it's just this incredible actor.
And so they were all hanging out.
We shot for a couple of months in Boston, so they were all just hanging out in my apartment.
And we were playing video games going out to bars.
And then we were in Vegas and we were hitting casinos with a whole movie crew
and card counters.
So it was this kind of wild traveling circus where the security didn't want
the card counters near the Blackjack tables, but the actors, they did want at the Blackjack table.
So we were kind of mixing in card counting and actors.
And it was just really fun.
I would say in terms of what I contributed, you know, once they've got a script
and a director, the author contributes very, very little.
You're basically hanging out until we ended up getting some of us kicked off the set
because the actors were getting too drunk with the card counters.
But but it was, you know, in the end, I had a I had a blast.
It was Robert Lukadek was the director who had done legally blonde.
So everything looks beautiful.
It's one of those movies you can watch 21 just for sort of it just feels like you're in Vegas.
It's I think it's a very good movie.
It's not rounders.
It's a very different movie.
You know, people who love cards understand what rounders is and understand what 21 is.
And there's a sea between those two movies.
But 21 is that movie you watch on the plane on your way to Vegas for the first time.
And I think it's kind of perfect for that.
Yeah, it's it is an amazing movie.
I think the first time I saw it, I was it was probably close at 10 years ago.
Right. When did it come out 2010?
Something like that.
I think it was 2007, I believe.
Yeah, OK. Longer.
Yeah. And.
So what about the social network?
Yeah. How did that come about?
And who did you originally meet that introduced you to that store?
I believe somebody emailed you out of the blue.
Yeah, yeah. So it was basically 21 was about to have its premiere.
And two in the morning, I got a random email from a Harvard senior.
And he said, my best friend founded Facebook and no one's ever heard of him.
And, you know, I'd heard of Mark Zuckerberg and never heard of anyone else.
And this was you got to remember 2007 around that period.
So Facebook was not a big thing.
It was it was little.
It was, you know, college kids.
It was a little bigger than that.
But not everyone was on Facebook.
Yeah, it was my space.
Yeah, my space was bigger.
You know, Friendster was still kicking, I think.
I went out for a drink and in walked Eduardo.
And Eduardo Severin at that point had never spoken to anyone.
No one had ever met Eduardo.
No one had ever heard of Eduardo.
His name had been taken off the mask head.
And he started the conversation by saying, Mark Zuckerberg sucked me.
And so at that point, I was a journalist.
So I said, tell me more.
And he proceeded to tell me this great story about, you know,
him and Mark meeting in his underground Jewish fraternity
and how they, you know, Mark had almost gotten kicked out of school
for making that website where you could vote on who the hottest girl at Harvard was.
And and then he'd met the Winklevoss twins.
And and it was this incredible story.
I mean, everyone knows the story, but it was this wild, never heard before story,
you know, and and I was blown away.
And so I basically hung out with Eduardo for a few months.
He talked to me and talked to me and talked to me.
It turns out, and I found out much later that he was attempting to use me.
It was this Machiavellian idea that he could talk to me for a little while
and then scare Facebook into settling with him.
He was in the midst of this massive lawsuit suing Facebook demanding,
you know, to get his percentage for having co-founded it.
But I didn't know this at the time.
I thought this was a great book idea.
So I wrote a 14 page book proposal and I sent the book proposal to my agent
and it leaked online.
It was actually Gawker.
You remember the Gawker?
Yes. Yeah.
They published my entire book proposal, which I'd never seen them do before.
And everything exploded at once.
That day, Facebook settled with Eduardo for five billion dollars.
And if you look at the settlement agreement, it says you may never speak
to Ben Mezrich again, because they were trying to stop this from happening.
They thought that they could stop him from talking to me
and there wouldn't be a book and there wouldn't be a movie.
So Eduardo cut off all contact with me.
He got a legal restraining order and sent it to me.
He broke up with his girlfriend because he was dating my wife's best friend at the time.
And then he moved to Singapore, never to be heard from again.
So I've never spoken to Eduardo since then.
I ended up getting him five billion dollars and he never even called
to send me a little gift basket, maybe a couple hundred million dollars.
I don't know. He never reached out again, which I understand because he had,
you know, he had to run away from me based on the settlement agreement.
That same day, Aaron Sorkin saw it online and said,
I want to write this as my next movie.
And David Fincher saw it online and said, I want to direct this as my next movie.
David Fincher, he did Fight Club, right?
Fight Club, Seven, Zodiac, so many incredible movies.
Fight Club really was my favorite, you know, of his at the time,
but really brilliant director.
And Aaron Sorkin, of course, had done the West Wing,
but had had written so many incredible movies.
And it's just one of the greatest writers, I think, around.
And the two of them reached out and said, I want to make this.
And which was great.
Yeah, I had written the book, though.
So it was one of these things where you're like, you know,
I sold the book to these people and then locked myself in a hotel room
and just started writing.
So they were reaching out to you just based off the 14 page synopsis?
So all of my projects have been sold on 14 page treatments, all of them.
You know, there's a magic art to writing these things, these treatments.
And in a lot of ways, they're an easier thing to sell than a full book.
But anyways, yeah, they came running into Boston and I sat in the hotel room
and I was handing chapters to Sorkin as I went.
And when I finished the book, I wrote the book in about 12 weeks, I would say.
And then he wrote the screenplay in the next three, four weeks.
And it was it was brilliant.
I mean, the guy is a genius.
And and the movie was made within a year, which was incredible.
I mean, you never that never happens.
And so it was just this kind of crazy, wild experience.
So, yeah, it was just a lucky random email reaching out to me.
And it was just one of those moments.
And then the movie, you know, was was an incredible hit.
Through it, I became close to the Winklevoss twins.
And they were actually my main one of my real major sources for the movie
in that when when Eduardo came to me, the first people I reached out to
were the Winklevoss twins, I just found them on Facebook.
And I wrote a message saying, hey, you know, I want to talk to you guys.
And we became close and they started handing me, you know, interesting things
and all the legal stuff, which we were able to then build into into the social network.
So that's how I got to know the Winklevoss twins.
I got to know Sean Parker as well.
Sean became a really big source.
Sean was trying to broker an interview between me and Mark Zuckerberg.
Mark was not happy. I was writing this book.
He was very unhappy.
He knew that Eduardo was involved.
He knew the Winklevoss twins were involved.
He did not want that story being told.
He wanted to tell his own story.
And so he kept turning me down, kept turning me down.
Sean and I would hang out and Sean would send him questions that I wrote.
And then Mark would refuse to answer them.
And it was kind of this back and forth for a good year.
And in the end, I ended up having to write it without Mark's input.
But but yeah, I had Sean.
I had the Winklevoss twins.
I had Eduardo and I had.
So, you know, I feel like it's a very true telling from all these points of view
other than Mark's Mark would tell a very different story.
But but I think that it's a pretty accurate story.
So going back, who exactly was Eduardo?
So Eduardo Savorin, you know, was was basically in the rooming group with Zuckerberg.
He was his friend. Eduardo came from a wealthy Brazilian family
and actually come to America and his family moved to Miami
because of kidnapping threats down in Brazil that kidnapped kids.
And so his family had moved him there.
So he had some money.
And so when when, you know, him and him and Mark were both very socially awkward,
geeky guys, spend any amount of time with those guys.
I promise you, those are socially awkward, geeky guys.
It's not hard to see.
Eduardo, you know, became a member of a finals club.
He had wealth and connections.
So he made it into the Phoenix Club.
Mark couldn't get into the Phoenix Club, which was one of those old work, you know,
those those fraternities, basically, their final steps.
They go back hundreds of years.
And they're basically the social life of Harvard, although that's changed since then.
But anyways, Mark got upset, went out, got drunk one night
and and and made this website, FaceMash, where you could vote
on who the hottest girl at Harvard was.
You know, he'd hacked into computer servers.
He'd pulled up pictures of all these girls and and it leaked out all over the
all over the college campus, got him in huge trouble.
He almost got kicked out of school.
Wasn't he comparing pictures of girls to farm animals?
Yeah, so in his blog, which he kept along with the thing, and we have his blog.
So we know what he was doing.
He was writing, you know, we should compare them to farm animals.
All this kind of stuff.
And and even when he got in trouble, you know, his argument was, well,
the girls were beating the farm animals.
So he shouldn't be mad.
He doesn't really understand or at the time did not understand why it was
such a bad thing to be doing.
But he caught the attention of the Winklevoss twins because they were
working on their own website, TheHarvardConnection.com, which was kind of
a dating website with some social interaction in it.
And so it had some of the things that did end up, I think, in Facebook.
But it was more oriented towards dating and socializing.
But they hired Mark.
They wanted someone to work for them who knew computers.
He was in the newspaper for almost getting in trouble for a computer
program that went viral.
So he went to work for them, blew them off and went to Eduardo.
So Eduardo had some money and then Mark went to Eduardo and said,
I've got an idea for a website.
People will put their own pictures up so we won't get in trouble.
If you put up the money, you can be the CFO and you can have 30%.
And so Eduardo put up $1,000, which ends up being the greatest investment
in the history of the world because it turns into $5 billion.
But anyways, he puts up the money and Mark writes the code for the Facebook.
And basically it launches all over Harvard.
It spreads, it spreads, it spreads.
And it was just huge.
And the Winklevoss twins realized that they're cut out, that they're not involved,
that Mark had been lying to them and leading them on.
So they sued him.
And Eduardo, eventually what happens is when Facebook starts to take off,
Mark moves to California, meets up with Sean Parker.
And Sean was like the cool kid of Silicon Valley.
Sean had started Napster when he was in high school, which ended up getting
sued out of existence.
And then he was the, he founded something called Plaxo, which he got fired
from when he was caught with cocaine.
And then he became the first president of Harvard until he got caught with cocaine.
So allegedly, I guess.
But anyways, Sean is a wild guy, fascinating genius, a true genius, I think.
But Eduardo did not like Sean, did not want Sean to be involved.
And when Mark and Sean got together, they essentially cut Eduardo out.
They left, he stayed behind in Boston to finish college.
He got so upset that he froze all the bank accounts of Facebook at the time,
which was all his money at the time.
It was 18 grand when he froze the accounts.
So they went to Peter Thiel.
And that's when Peter Thiel invested half a million dollars.
But said, who is this guy listed as your CFO?
He's not even in California.
He's not part of Facebook.
So they cut Eduardo out.
So Eduardo ended up suing as well.
And that's where I came into the picture.
That's when they settled for $5 billion and he moved away.
Yes, we're at $9 billion now.
He's living in Singapore.
Well, he came back through COVID.
I don't know where he is right now.
Yes, I have not seen or heard from him since.
So if anyone out there give Eduardo a call and send him,
you can send me a little gift basket right now.
Yeah, that movie was beautifully shot.
The cinematography in that movie was amazing.
All on super tight lenses, super low light.
Like it was just a beautiful movie.
Were you involved in that and the shooting of that at all?
Yeah, so I was on set for a lot of it.
I would say that wasn't a fun set.
It was not a party.
David Fincher, Scott Rudin, who was a producer,
Aaron Sorkin, and Kevin Spacey, who was a producer as well.
It was a very big personalities
on a very dark, intense set.
And David Fincher is absolutely incredible.
And that movie, shot for shot, is beautiful.
But the way he does things is very intense.
I remember one scene where a bus load of girls
pulls up to a finals club and these girls get out of the bus.
And that's all the scene is.
It's like a five seconds of scene.
And he shot it from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
Just over and over and over again for 12 hours.
And I don't even know what he's looking for.
I don't know what it is he's seeing.
But when it's on screen, it's perfect.
But he really, I mean, that's how he shoots a movie.
So it was really intense.
But I was there.
Yeah, it was wild.
It was incredible.
And I remember the first time you read the script,
it was like, wow, that's an amazing script.
And then the first time you sit in the movie,
and the movie opens, and it's a conversation,
and it goes on for 10 minutes,
and it's brilliant, it's intense, and it's incredible.
As you say, it's dark.
And you wouldn't expect a movie about Facebook to be that.
I remember when they came to me with the title,
they were like, we're gonna call it the social network.
And I was like, that doesn't sound like a good title.
I mean, that doesn't even say anything.
But now when you watch the movie,
it's actually a perfect title.
Because the idea was, it wasn't really about Facebook.
It was something much bigger than that.
And it was really a character style,
even being Mark and all of these other people.
And also about this massive change in all of our lives
with dark undertones.
And I feel like what's happened since then
has only made that movie more and more true.
Mark has become more and more the character
from the social network.
And Facebook has become more and more what he created then.
And so I feel like Fincher and Sorkin
really captured something very true
that 10 years later feels very real to me.
Yeah, it's creepy how accurate that turned out, huh?
Yeah, I mean, everything Mark's done since then,
you can see the underpinnings of.
And how he dealt with his friends
and how he dealt with people who were involved
with the project and what his goal is all the time.
And then sort of this kind of darkness in a way
that hopefully will slowly recede.
Yeah, a lot of people think he's an alien.
I mean, I don't think he's an alien.
I think he's a genius, for absolutely brilliant guy.
But I do think he thinks of the world differently than we do.
I think he really, really thinks,
if we were all on Facebook all the time,
sharing everything with no walls between us,
it would be a better world.
And that if data were free,
if we were living in this Facebook village,
but at the same time,
there's a little bit of control issues.
He knows that he's right and everyone else is wrong.
And whenever Facebook does something
and everyone is angry about it, he wades through it.
And then in the end, we all give up.
So maybe he is right, but over and over again,
they've done things to upset people and just pushed through.
And I think that speaks to Mark's character
is that he believes what he's doing is correct.
And that's why he's retained total control.
And even when it's pointed out
that what he's doing may not be correct for everyone,
he sticks with it until he really, really needs.
So I don't know how much better
anything will ever get in that world.
So how did you eventually come to meet the Winklevi?
The Winklevoss thing, the Winklevoss.
So I reached out after Eduardo came to me
and I was looking for sources.
I found them on Facebook.
I had seen an article somewhere that they were suing,
but I didn't really know much about why
or what was really going on.
So I reached out and I met with them in New York.
And they walk into the room
and it's like something out of Greek mythology.
It doesn't look real.
They look like they were invented on a Hollywood set
because there's six and five identical
twin Olympic rowers, at the time they were still in training.
So they ate the same, they worked out the same,
they were the same.
And they're physically intimidating guys
and they come from a privileged background
of immense wealth and that sort of thing.
So you immediately think there've got to be
the bad guys in the story.
Because I grew up in the 80s and every 80s movie,
they were the bad guys.
They were the ones dressed up in skeleton costumes
chasing the karate kid around the gym.
And so immediately you think Mark's the good guy
and they're the bad guys.
But you kind of know Mark's not the good guy
because you also know how people have reacted to him,
how he's dealt with people around him.
There's this kind of angry nerd thing going on there.
And so it was a nuanced story.
But originally when I met the Winklevoss twins,
I was definitely in awe of them
just because of who they were.
But they were the guys who were suing Mark
for stealing their idea.
And that's all they were at that time.
They were angry, very angry.
Even though they had settled this Mark,
they wanted to throw out the settlement
because it was never about money for them.
They didn't care about money.
That's one of the cool things
about the whole social network story.
Nobody cared about money in that story.
Mark never cared about money.
Money was meaningless to him.
He became one of the richest men in the world
but never cared about money.
When he was in high school, he came up with an idea.
Microsoft had offered him a million dollars for it
and he turned it down because he just didn't care.
He said, I'll give it away for free.
And that's the guy who created Facebook.
Eduardo didn't really care about making money
because he came from a wealthy family.
He just wanted to prove something to his family.
The Winklevoss twins didn't care about making money
because they came from a wealthy family.
Only Sean Parker really cared about making money.
So that's kind of cool about that story.
But anyways, the Winklevoss twins-
He was kind of like the snake oil salesman
of the whole story, right?
Well, that's how Eduardo described him.
I mean, Eduardo did not like Sean.
He really thought he was just trying to sell something.
And Sean, Justin Timberlake captured the character perfectly.
And I think Sean became more and more like Justin Timberlake
after the movie came out.
But he wasn't really a villain.
I think Aaron Sorkin made Sean Parker more into a villain
than in my book, Accident of Billionaires.
In my book, I think Sean really has his eyes on the prize,
wants to create a billion-dollar company,
wants to make a unicorn, and he's got this vision.
He sees Facebook and says, this is it.
But he's not really evil.
But when you watch the movie,
he certainly comes off as the bad guy
tearing at the relationship between Mark and Eduardo.
So I think that's a little bit more
what Aaron Sorkin did than what I did.
But yeah, I find Sean very compelling.
I think he's a really smart guy.
And I would write about Sean again if given the opportunity.
But anyways, the Winklevast twins, at first to me,
I like them always, and I respected them
because they never lie.
These are guys who were very much
this sort of 1950s ideal of right and wrong.
You don't cheat, you don't lie, you don't steal.
That's all real, this whole men of Harvard thing.
They really, the thing about Mark
that upset them the most was that he lied,
that he was duplicitous,
that he pretended to work for them and then didn't,
that he created this company behind their noses
when he could have simply come to them
because they were working together and they had money.
So he basically cheated them.
And that to them is the ultimate sin.
So for them, as long as you're honest
and you're telling the truth, they respect you
and I respect them for that.
But in the story of the social network,
they definitely were the guys who were,
the bad guys in a way,
because they were the guys who were the big jocks
who had this dating website that Mark built Facebook,
maybe after seeing their code or whatever,
but they were suing him
and you couldn't tell whether it was right or wrong.
It wasn't until much later
that I kind of changed my view of the Winklevoss twins.
Interesting, and speaking to that as well,
wasn't there some sort of a settlement meeting
at a lawyer's office where Mark was freaked out
those guys were gonna beat the shit out of them
or something so anyone could go in?
Yeah, this is in my book, Bitcoin Billionaires.
This was not on the social network,
but basically they had been involved
in this negotiation for a long time.
And finally, the Winklevoss twins said,
you know what, let's just sit down with Mark,
just one-on-one, we're a bunch of college kids,
we used to hang out,
let's just all get into a room and talk this out,
no more lawyers.
And so they sent this request over to Mark's lawyers.
Mark's lawyers come back and say,
well, he agrees in concept, but he has a concern.
And it turns out he was concerned
they were gonna beat him up.
So Mark made this rule that only one of them
could come into the meeting.
So the meeting took place in this glass office
with all the lawyers sitting in a circle around it.
And Mark met with one Winklevoss twin.
As if he could take one of them, right?
Right, he's gonna fight a six-foot-five rower.
But anyways, they sat across from each other
and they kind of attempted to work it out.
After that meeting, Mark settled with them
for what was originally $65 million.
The twins were not happy with this agreement.
So the only way they accepted it was to accept it in stock.
They took, they didn't want any cash.
Their lawyers argued with them
and they ended up getting into a massive argument
with their own lawyers
because their lawyers wanted to take the $65 million in cash.
But the twins wanted to be a part of Facebook
because they really felt that they had helped invent it.
So they took their portion in stock
and that ended up being worth half a billion dollars
after the IPO.
So how did they originally only get 65 million
but Eduardo got five, six billion?
Yeah, so Eduardo, Mark had agreed to Eduardo
in the very beginning to give him 30% of Facebook.
That was the agreement between two college kids
in a dorm room.
There's no lawyers, there's no contracts.
And so the question always becomes
if you and your buddy come up with some idea
and then he goes and makes the company
and he bills into this billion dollar company,
what are you, what do you deserve?
And when I asked entrepreneurs that question,
they always say, you know,
well, he doesn't really deserve that much.
But if you ask venture capitalists that question,
they say, oh, he deserves half
because he was there at the beginning,
he put up the money, he should get his percentage.
So the settlement was not, you know, was based on that,
was based on what he was supposed to get
from the very beginning.
So Mark sort of, he sort of did honor
his verbal agreement with him.
No, he didn't want to.
I think the book made him.
I think they really thought they could stop this book
in this movie from happening.
So I really think the book was the reason he settled.
So the twins, after they took their 65 million
in shares with Facebook,
this is where everything sort of goes to your story
on the Bitcoin billionaires.
Yeah.
What do these guys become Bitcoin billionaires?
Yeah, so basically the Winklevoss twins get this settlement
and they decide they're gonna become venture capitalists.
So they're gonna go out to California
and start seeding companies.
And they go out there and find out
no one will take their money
because everyone's end game in Silicon Valley
is to sell to Facebook.
And if you have the Winklevoss twins, you know,
on your ledger, Mark won't buy your company.
And so the Winklevoss twins are upset
and so they went to Ibiza to party,
which is what you do when you're upset.
And so they were on the beach in Ibiza
and somebody came up to them and said,
have you guys ever heard of Bitcoin?
And they had not at the time.
They didn't really know anything about it.
Bitcoin at the time was a few dollars, you know, five,
$10, it was a brand new thing.
And they looked into it and were kind of blown away by it
and thinking either this is total bullshit
or it's the next big thing.
And they became convinced it was the next big thing.
And then they bought in hugely.
They bought 200,000 Bitcoin at around $7 a coin.
So their goal was to own 1% of all Bitcoin.
And part of that story as well
is the person who had come to them
was an associate of Charlie Shrem.
Charlie was one of the first, you know,
initial Bitcoin entrepreneurs.
He was an 18-year-old kid living in his parents' basement,
who basically fell into Bitcoin online
as a lot of people at that time did,
thought it was cool and started a website,
something called BitInstant,
where you could buy and sell Bitcoin, that was the idea.
Because at the time, to buy Bitcoin, it was very hard.
You had to go through this weird Japanese website
called Mt. Gox, which was very corrupt,
which ended up going out of business after it was looted.
And there was no good way to buy Bitcoin.
So Charlie started a company where you could give him money
and he would give you Bitcoin.
It was like a middleman Bitcoin company.
And the Winklevoss twins were one of his first,
they gave him a one and a half million dollars in financing.
Roger Ver was his other financer.
Roger, if you know who he is, you know,
anarchistic, libertarian.
He was one of the first Bitcoin investors,
they used to call him Bitcoin Jesus,
because he had funded so many of these companies.
He's a billionaire as well.
But he believed that Bitcoin would bring down governments,
that Bitcoin would bring down taxes.
He does not believe in the military.
He does not believe the taxes should happen.
He really is a true, you know, revolutionary in a way.
And so he and the Winklevoss twins
are complete opposites in how they approached this world.
And there was a lot of tension between them
and ended up being the core of my book,
Bitcoin Billionaires.
Charlie was in the middle.
Charlie was a kid who was caught up in this world of Bitcoin.
He has the Winklevoss twins on one hand
who are the men of Harvard.
They believe in right and wrong.
They believe that Bitcoin should be a financial instrument,
part of, you know, all the different financial instruments
that it should eventually be on the stock exchange,
you know, as a commodity basically.
And you have Roger Ver,
who thinks Bitcoin should take down governments.
You should be able to buy drugs if you want,
total freedom, anarchy and libertarianism.
And so Charlie gets pulled in both directions.
Meaning like that it should be completely autonomous
of banks or anything like that?
Well, they both believe that.
So the cool thing about Bitcoin is there's no middleman.
There's no need for a bank.
There's no need for a government.
There's no need for anybody in between me and you.
I can buy and sell Bitcoin to you
without anybody being in between us.
The same way I send a text or an email.
They're all like that.
But what Roger Ver believes
is that there should be no regulations.
It should be basically Silk Road all the time.
You wanna go buy drugs on Silk Road,
go buy drugs on Silk Road.
You don't wanna pay taxes,
keep your money in Bitcoin, no one pay taxes.
And that's not the way the wink of us twins see it.
They see it as something
that should have some level of regulation so that it's safe.
That Bitcoin will never be popular
unless my mother can use Bitcoin,
without worrying that it's gonna get stolen
or that she's gonna get attacked by the IRS
or something like that.
So they believe that Bitcoin needs to get away
from the sort of cowboy past.
The idea that it's just for criminals and things like that,
as opposed to someone like Roger Ver
who believes that Bitcoin was made to be anonymous
because it gives you the powers that anonymity gives you.
The ability to sort of not be involved in the real world
and to not have a government looking over your shoulder
to not pay taxes, for instance.
And that's a very different way of looking at it.
So what are the, what are the Winkle
by Winkle Voss twins doing today in regards to?
So the Winkle Voss twins are billionaires
because of this investment.
They have launched something called Gemini,
which is an exchange where you can buy and sell Bitcoin.
It's regulated, it's part of the New York financial
sort of network over there.
It's guaranteed, so you don't have to worry about your money.
So Gemini is their main project.
And they're also proselytizers.
They travel the world promoting Bitcoin,
explaining why it's the money of the future.
There's a big question of whether it's a commodity
or whether it's a currency.
Is it gonna be like gold,
something you grab and hold on to and increases in value?
Or is it gonna be something that you use
to buy and sell things?
Right now, for the most part, it's like gold, but better
because you can carry it around on your phone.
It's not something to bolt from where,
and it's instantly transferable
so I can send you a Bitcoin, can't send you a piece of gold.
It's not something you can touch.
Right, it's not, but it exists.
So it's kind of this weird thing
where it's both virtual and physical
because you actually carry it around with you,
but it doesn't really exist anywhere.
So yes, it's an interesting sort of phenomenon, but...
What do you mean you can carry it around with you?
Like meaning that it's like,
it's stored just like a file on your computer?
Except for it's not in your computer.
So you get a hash, you get a specific address
where your Bitcoin is,
and you have a code to get your Bitcoin.
And that's all you have.
So that code is your Bitcoin.
Your Bitcoin isn't held anywhere.
There's something called the blockchain.
So when you exchange Bitcoin,
that is logged onto this thing called the blockchain,
which is like this virtual brick wall.
And each brick is connected to the other brick,
connected to the other brick.
So that's how your exchange happens.
But the reality is that code you carry around
or have in your brain,
you can't really remember that many numbers.
Some people get tattoos of their Bitcoin,
some people put it on a ring.
The Winklevoss twins is a great scene in Bitcoin billionaires.
Well, what they actually do for security reasons
is they print out, first of all, they used a dice.
They used those dice you used in Dungeons and Dragons,
which had like 20 sides on them.
I don't know if you're as dorky as I am, but.
I've never played that, I've never seen that dice before.
You're probably too young.
Dungeons and Dragons used to have these dice
that have like 20 sides on them.
So the Winklevoss twins made their code by rolling the dice
so they get a random, a truly random thing.
Because it turns out if you just pick numbers off your head,
it's not truly random.
Because your mind usually settles on things.
So this is a truly random number.
Then they printed it out
and they cut it up into little pieces of paper.
Then they put it in a backpack
and they traveled all around the country
depositing these little pieces of paper
in safety deposit boxes in little banks
all across the Midwest.
Then when they got home,
they destroyed all the computers
that they had printed out on.
They destroyed the printers.
They even destroyed the wireless routers.
So that all of their fortune is hidden
in these deposit boxes all across America.
And unless you know where they are
and put the pieces of paper back together,
you can never find their code.
And so it's a really interesting way
to keep their Bitcoin secure.
But it's really neat.
So that hash is your Bitcoin.
And if anyone ever got it, they would have your Bitcoin.
But it's as secure, it's unhackable.
It's incredibly secure.
And it's an interesting,
it's the future of money in a way.
Yeah, it's also very confusing.
It's hard to figure out.
Yeah, I never wanted to write about Bitcoin.
It's interesting.
And had it not been the Winklevoss twins,
I never would have.
Over the years, people have pitched me stories
about Bitcoin.
You should write about Bitcoin.
I was like, I'm not interested in that.
The word blockchain is like the worst word ever invented.
It's like math, it's horrible.
But then you see these two giant twins,
billionaires out of the blue,
and they were the bad guys in the social network.
Well, suddenly you've got a great story.
And that's the whole reason I ended up writing it.
And are those guys still in Silicon Valley?
Didn't...
I know, they're New York-based.
They're based in New York.
So after no one would take their money
in Silicon Valley, they headed back to New York,
which is where they're from originally.
And they're from Connecticut,
but their father was part of Wall Street,
and that's where he made his money.
So they ended up being a part of that whole thing.
And so their offices are in New York City,
and they're doing very well.
They have tons of employees,
and they're worth many billions of dollars.
What did you say the company was called again?
Gemini.
Gemini.
What was it?
Didn't Zuckerberg try to make another company
that competes with it?
Yeah, it's really funny.
The Winklevoss twins launched Gemini,
and then a couple of years later,
a couple of years, I guess a year ago,
Zuckerberg announces that he's gonna launch
his own cryptocurrency, and he's calling it Libra.
And so to me, it seems like way too much of a coincidence
that the twins would have Gemini,
and Zuckerberg would have Libra.
And so I envision that as much as the Winklevoss twins
wake up every morning with their hatred of Zuckerberg,
Zuckerberg wakes up every morning
with his hatred of the Winklevoss twins.
I feel like there's this connection of anger
between them that is never going away.
Libra ended up not happening yet.
We'll see what happens with that.
I think Facebook is not trustworthy.
People don't trust it enough to have it hold our money.
It's already got our data and our photos and our lives.
Do we really want them to be our wallet?
And I think people got very nervous about that.
Yeah, definitely.
And did you guys make the movie for Bitcoin Billionaires?
So Bitcoin Billionaires is gonna be a movie.
It's basically, it's set up.
Greg Silverman, who used to run Warners, is producing it.
And it's gonna be really, really cool.
Hollywood is frozen right now.
So when things reopen, I think we'll get moving on it.
But we have set up the movie, yes.
This brings me to the most fascinating topic
that I wanna talk about with you, which is aliens and UFOs.
I love UFOs.
Can we talk about that stuff?
Of course.
Your book's called The 37th Parallel.
What is the 37th parallel?
Can you explain what the significance of that is?
Yes, the 37th parallel is,
let me go back a little bit, okay?
The reason I got into the story about UFOs,
and I'm from a family of scientists.
My dad is a scientist, my brothers are both scientists.
I never really believed in UFOs.
I'm as skeptical as one can be.
I got a call from a Hollywood producer who said,
there's this guy in Colorado, he's a sheriff.
His name is Chuck Zukowski.
And he was just fired from his job
because he'd gone to investigate a cattle mutilation.
So cattle mutilations is this really strange phenomenon,
happens all over the Midwest,
where cows are found lying on their left side,
missing their organs.
Usually they have cuts on them that are circular,
that look like they were cut by a laser.
The cows are completely drained of blood.
There's no footsteps, there's no footprints,
there's no evidence.
And this is a phenomenon that goes all the way back
to the 50s.
It was such a big deal in the 70s,
so many cows were being found like this,
that three governors got together
and demanded an investigation.
There was an investigation by 100 FBI agents,
and they found nothing, not a single shred of evidence.
So Chuck Zukowski was a cop, he was a sheriff's deputy,
investigating one of these weird cattle mutilations.
He was looking at this cow, and he started to think UFOs.
So he went to the police station,
and he said, he started to say,
I think this is related to UFOs, which sounds crazy, right?
He was immediately fired.
And he became obsessed with the idea of UFOs,
and he started studying all of these UFO sightings.
And he put them all down on a graph,
and he discovered that the majority of UFO sightings
occur along the 37th parallel of the United States,
which is a line that runs across the United States
along a latitudinal line.
He also discovered that almost all cattle mutilations
are along the 37th parallel.
It also turns out that almost all of America's
military bases, secret underground ones,
are on the 37th parallel of the United States,
from Cheyenne Valley all the way across to...
That's also...
It's also where, yeah.
I think historically, it's also where a lot of nuclear testing
has been done, right?
A lot of nuclear testing has been done along there.
It also turns out there's somewhat
an underground cavern system around there.
There's lots of strangeness around the 37th parallel.
So Chuck Zukowski called it the UFO Highway,
or the UFO Super Highway.
I went out and sort of hang out with him
to write this book, 37th parallel.
In the process of writing it, what I discovered
was that there's a lot of weirdness going on
in the world of UFOs.
Not the people who know about UFOs,
who are usually pretty weird.
But the US government has been studying UFOs for a long time.
And this just recently came out.
So it turns out what I wrote in the 37th parallel many years
ago is now actually coming out in the New York Times.
But the US government never stopped investigating UFOs.
They pretended to stop after Project Rubel in the 1950s,
after Roswell, and that whole story.
But what happened is they ended up outsourcing it
to a company called Bigelow Aeronautics,
a guy named Robert Bigelow.
And this is all true.
He's a billionaire who lives out in Nevada,
who runs a major aerospace company that
has deals with NASA.
They make the inflatable gaskets that
are used by the International Space Station.
Well, it turns out Robert Bigelow
has been studying UFOs for many, many years,
in conjunction with the US government.
And in fact, if you look at an FAA manual of what
US pilots are supposed to do if they see a UFO or something
they can't understand, they don't
report it to their airline because they would be fired.
They don't report it to the US government
because the government is not officially investigating
UFOs.
They report it to Robert Bigelow.
This is right in the FAA manual.
And so it's this really weird situation
where a private billionaire who makes things for spacecraft
has been secretly and privately investigating
UFOs for 30 to 40 years.
Now, who is it?
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
I just wanted to go a little bit.
A little bit more on Bigelow.
How did Bigelow, where did he come from?
Where did he get his money?
And how did he start?
Bigelow was a kid in Nevada who had become to believe in UFOs
when he was a little kid.
And his mom had, he was in a car with his mom.
And there was some weird sighting on the road.
So as a kid, he'd seen bright lights.
He'd seen aliens, you know, whatever.
As he got older, he made his fortune in hotels.
He was a real estate guy.
It was a, I believe it was travels,
budget suites of America was his.
Once he made his money, he decided
to pour half a billion dollars into essentially UFO studies.
He created something where he hired
all of these actual scientists, put them together,
and said, we're gonna study UFOs.
Because the weird thing about UFOs
is no one's allowed to study it.
If a real scientist starts to look into it,
everyone calls him crazy.
If a journalist decides to write about it,
everyone calls him crazy.
And what's interesting is this date back to the 50s
when the Pentagon and the U.S. Air Force decided,
and there are memos about this,
that the best way to cover up their own research
into this phenomenon is to ridicule
anyone who attempts to do it.
So back then, when there was a conference about UFOs,
the U.S. Air Force would actually send someone
to the conference to essentially make it a big joke
and to mock it, to get up on there.
So yeah, there's a little green man.
That whole thing was a double-speak mission
to make it hard to investigate.
Because they were actually investigating it
for a different reason.
They believed it was the Russians.
So the U.S. government back in the 50s
believed that Roswell was the Russians.
They believed that any of these sightings you saw
was black ops either by their own division
or by Russian spies.
And so they had reason to cover this up
that had nothing to do with aliens.
But that carried forward.
And so every time a Navy pilot sees something,
it immediately gets covered up.
Not because they're hiding aliens from us,
but because it dates back to the 50s
when we were hiding Russians from us.
And so it's an interesting phenomenon.
And so very recently, the Pentagon is now releasing
these files saying that there are things
we don't understand, that there might be vehicles
that we're now saying are not necessarily of this earth.
You know, that's really weird.
But if you read 37th parallel,
I get much more into detail into all of this.
And it's quite fascinating.
Yeah, it's super fun.
It's a super fun subject.
And it's a crazy subject just because that there's...
I'm gonna move rooms.
Is that okay for a second?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, no, what I was gonna say was
it's such a fun subject.
And it's such a weird subject to navigate
just because there are so many crazy people
that are super into UFOs and studying and looking
into aliens and so many of them are full of shit.
It's hard to sift through all of these people.
Yeah, I mean, that's the interesting thing is that
so 99% of UFO sightings are not UFOs.
99% is a flare, a drone, some sort of military thing,
or nothing at all.
And there's a lot of people who see something
and their entire life changes and they go down this route
because it's easy to go down.
We want to believe.
We want to believe in conspiracy so badly.
Everybody wants to believe.
And you can see it happening today all the time
with what's going on with COVID.
Conspiracies are our bread and butter.
Our minds are made to look for these patterns, right?
That's how we got out of the jungle in the first place.
But the reality is there are some real conspiracies
dating back to the atomic bomb.
And this I get into in the book.
The development of the atomic bomb
was one of the biggest conspiracies in history.
100,000 people were involved
and only about 12 actually knew what they were doing.
The rest of them were doing something they had no idea.
They were even fake cities made
full of all of these engineers
who had no idea what they were actually working on.
Cities that then vanished afterwards.
There were efforts to take the word nuclear
out of all newspapers.
They even took it out of cartoons.
Even the Buck Rogers comic book was censored
because they wanted to take the words nuclear and radiate,
anything having to do with nuclear weapons out of it
so that people wouldn't even think in that realm.
So there have been massive conspiracies in history.
And looking at the UFO world,
there's no question that the Roswell investigation
and what happened afterwards was covered up.
There was a cover up.
And so that's what feeds this whole thing.
If they had been more open about it earlier,
perhaps less people would believe in UFOs.
That's the interesting thing.
Is hiding it is what's made it
into the sort of crazy world it is.
Yeah, and it's such a fun subject.
It's such a fun thing to get freaked out about.
Yeah, I mean, listen, you know,
I think it's coming out now that very clearly
pilots have seen things that we still don't understand.
I think it's pretty clear that there are,
is in the possession of the Air Force or Bigelow,
some objects that we still don't understand.
And so, you know, we'll see what happens.
Yeah, the guy who was in the US Air Force in San Diego,
Captain Fravor, I believe his name was,
who shows that he, which originally came out
with that video of his radar tracking that object.
That guy was, you can hear that guy's voice on the video.
He's freaked out.
This guy's a rock solid military man.
I mean, he's not a conspiracy theorist.
It's got no interest in UFOs or aliens.
No, it is absolutely.
There's absolutely been things
that radar operators and Navy pilots have seen
that cannot be explained yet.
Whether there are some sort of weird technology
that somebody has figured out here
that we can't conceptualize yet.
Okay, that's a possibility,
but you can't throw out the extraterrestrial thing.
And that's part of the whole point of my book, 37th parallel,
is that 20 years ago, maybe even 10 years ago,
you could throw it out,
because we didn't know
that there were so many Earth-like planets out there.
We didn't know that some of these planets
aren't really that far away.
And we used to think that it was impossible
to traverse these vast distances
because we didn't have the technology,
but that's actually changing.
We're at a point right now
where we find new planets every day
that could support life, right?
And we also are at a point
where our technology has advanced to the point
where getting to one-fifth the speed of light
is not technically impossible anymore.
One-fifth the speed of light,
you can use solar sails to get there.
It's been theorized that, you know,
that you could,
and there's something called the Starshot Program
where they're gonna make postcard-sized probes
attached to massive solar sails,
that you could actually get these things up
to one-fifth the speed of light.
If that's the case,
you can get to the next Earth-like planet
in about 20 to 40 years.
And that's not that long.
So the idea that these vast regions of space
are just too far, it's not really true anymore.
And so the reasons to not believe in UFOs
has definitely changed.
Have you ever heard of a guy named Robert Hastings?
I've heard the name, yeah.
Yeah, he wrote that book, UFOs and nukes.
Yeah, I have that book.
Fascinating.
So yes, a lot of UFOs, things around.
But that could be evidence of Russians as well, you know?
Yeah, that's the scary thing.
That's what the government's everybody's freaked out about,
is that this isn't some extraterrestrial thing.
This could be China or Russia.
Right.
And there's a great book, I just lost the name of it.
This woman wrote, what was it called?
Shoot, about Roswell and what her belief
with Roswell was, was actually Stalin had sent
over a fake UFO to try and scare the Midwest.
It was a brilliant book, I can't remember what it was.
I think it was called Area 51, was that what it was?
But yeah, I mean, there's lots of different theories
that don't involve extraterrestrials
that could explain it as well.
But because of the policy of keeping it as secret as possible
or outsourcing it to Robert Bigelow,
who keeps it as secret as possible,
it makes it very hard for anyone to know
what's really going on.
So did Bigelow, did Bigelow do the initial archeological dig
in Roswell in Area 51?
So Chuck Zuckowski was involved in that.
It was actually a television show
that did the original one that I wrote about in my book.
But what happened was Chuck found something.
He found a weird piece of metal
during this archeological dig.
And he basically went online and said,
is there anyone out there who can help me analyze
this piece of metal?
And he was approached by Bigelow's people.
They said, yeah, we'll analyze it, this is what we do.
So he sent them the metal
and then they never sent it back to them.
So he actually ends up going and trying to get it back.
It's a really interesting story,
but Bigelow's people were involved at the time
basically investigating any UFO sighting
or anything that could have any legitimate connection
to UFOs or Roswell or something like that.
He was well-funded.
His team had had the funds, real laboratories
and they would go out and research this stuff.
Roswell has been investigated numerous, numerous times,
many, many times.
What happened at Roswell is still completely
masked in mystery, I guess.
Something was found there.
Whatever that thing was that was found still exists,
but nobody knows what it is.
The reason I have trouble with the cow mutilations,
especially relating to skin walker ranch,
like, yeah, it's super weird.
There's no blood, there's these surgical incisions.
But there's no hard evidence, really, of anything
ever happening there.
No, there's no evidence.
So skin walker ranch and cattle,
they're two separate things, but take the cattle mutilations.
I mean, cattle mutilations are a weird phenomenon.
It's gone on for a very long time.
There's no good theory of what they are.
The FBI at first thought it was a cult rituals.
Then they thought it was a motorcycle gang
that was doing this for some reason
as some sort of ritual to join the motorcycle gang.
But in the end, they concluded that we don't have
any evidence of either of those things.
So nobody really knows what that is.
Why it would be related to UFOs, I could not tell you.
The only reason that people relate it to UFOs
is a lot of times people see lights in the sky
or hear weird noises or things like that
if you talk to these ranchers.
So that's the connection, but there's no evidence
that a UFO would have any reason to do that.
So yes, that's just one of the weird phenomenon
that seems to happen along the 37th parallel.
Skin walker ranch was this weird, crazy ranch in Utah
where lots of things were seen anecdotally
weird changes in time and monsters appearing,
mutilated cattle, and then Bigelow bought it.
Bigelow's people actually bought Skin Walker Ranch,
set up a bunch of scientists to work there for years
and put down what they saw.
But again, no evidence ever came out.
It doesn't mean there isn't evidence.
And so the question is, what's going on at Bigelow?
He's got lots and lots of files,
which he's never spoken about, never shown to anyone.
And he's moved into a legitimate aeronautics business,
which makes pieces for your national space station
and just sort of brushes over that whole UFO thing,
which he was involved with for many, many years.
So the question becomes, are there files there?
Is there info there?
Are there objects there?
What does he have?
And we don't have the answer to that.
What is the most unexplainable or questionable thing to you
about your book, about everything that you study
and everyone you talk to,
making the, or writing the 37th parallel?
So I think number one, and this has come out recently,
I had seen files talking about unexplained materials
and objects that were not old files.
So I knew that at this point in time,
there are still things that the Air Force has
that they can't figure out what they are.
So I knew that before this recent release.
So I think that was the number one thing that spurred me on
was the idea that people at very high levels in the Air Force
have, you know, are talking about internally materials
that they can't understand.
And that's weird because if these were things
found in the 50s, by now we should know what they are.
You know, our technology has advanced to the point
that we should be ahead of anything
that could have been made in the 50s.
So that means it must not be by us.
That, the Bigelow stuff is very intriguing to me.
But in general, it's just sort of fascinating to me.
I loved Close Encounters as a movie.
And so I always kind of wanted to write something
in that realm.
So I'm on the fence, you know, I'm not, you know,
someone who's just a true UFO believer, I believe,
you know, in everything.
I am a believer though that there is evidence
that has not come to light.
And there's information that still hasn't been explained.
And so I guess that's where I land on this.
I would love to see everything that the Air Force has
on this subject.
I would love to know, you know, all of their sort of
details about these objects.
And I would love to know what Bigelow has,
you know, in his own possession.
So those are the things that are most intriguing to me.
But yeah, I guess that's it.
So what else are you working on?
Do you have any projects that are coming up
in the near future?
Yeah, so recently I wrote a serialized novel
for the Boston Globe, which appeared one chapter a day
for 20 days.
It was a thriller, like a Da Vinci code style thriller
called The Mechanic, which ended up being very popular
in the region.
And I sold it to Spielberg and I'm writing the movie now.
So I'm writing the screenplay.
And it's going to be a big book next fall.
And then a sequel the following fall.
So that's kind of the main project.
So it's like a Da Vinci code style thriller
about a mystery going all the way back
to the American Revolution.
It's really cool stuff based in real facts.
And then I think you'll like it a lot.
We're working on the movie for 37th parallel,
working on the movie for Bitcoin Billionaires.
And I have a couple other projects in the works
and film and television.
I recently wrote for the show Billions on Showtime.
I was a producer and writer for season five of Billions,
which was really, really fun.
And so those are kind of the main projects right now,
but I'm always looking for that next big
nonfiction story.
So you said you mentioned you're writing the screenplay
for the movie you sold to Spielberg?
Yes.
Is this the first time you've written a screenplay?
This will be my first screenplay for a major studio.
I've written an independent film here or there
that hasn't been made.
So I've written some scripts before.
I tried to adapt one of my earlier books once.
So I've done some screenwriting and I wrote for Billions,
which was television, you know.
But this will be my first major feature film, yeah.
What's the biggest change for you
writing a screenplay versus writing a book?
Well, you know, you don't realize when you're writing a book
how much of the story is just taking place
in the character's heads, because an awful lot of it is.
You know, every sort of, every time they see something
and think about it, there's got to be a way to show that.
Nothing appears in the screenplay
that doesn't appear on screen.
So there can't ever be any interior thought.
There can't be any explanation.
There can't be description, really,
beyond something that you would visually see.
So that's a big transformation for a writer.
You know, most book writers aren't as cinematic.
Now, I've always written four movies in a way.
So all of my books are somewhat like that,
which critics sometimes don't like.
They often review my book saying this should be a movie
and not a book.
But for me, it's probably an easier transition
than some authors.
But yeah, it's a learning curve.
I mean, it's a process to learn the format
and how to make sure everything you put in there
appears on the screen.
I love being a book writer
and I've always wanted to write books.
But I've always seen the book as a platform
for telling the story.
I've always wanted my books to be bigger
and live beyond just the bookstore.
My goal is to be Michael Crichton.
And what I always was fascinated and loved about him
was he would tell a story and it would be almost seamless
and how it became this huge movie,
like Jurassic Park or a television show
or something like that or Westworld.
I mean, it's just, the idea is I'm a storyteller.
I don't care how you devour that story.
I don't care if someone-
Not attached to a medium.
No, I don't care if someone tells you that story.
I don't care if I'm on YouTube
or do something like that.
I only care that you are hearing the story and enjoy it.
And so my goal is to tell these stories in as big a way as I can.
For me, it's been movies.
It's been writing a book that can become a movie.
If you write a book that can't become a movie,
it has a shelf life, you know what I'm saying?
It's like doing it in a much smaller of a way
than it could be done.
And you're only gonna reach a certain number of people.
There has to be that bigger dream, you know?
In a lot of ways, you have to delude yourself
when you sit down to do a project
that everyone in the world is gonna read it
or everyone in the world is gonna see it
or everyone in the world is gonna hear it.
That's the only way I can do it.
I can't sit down and write a book
because it would be a few people would like it.
It's just never been me.
There are writers who do that who write wonderful stories
and they do it because there's a great story there.
For me, it needs to be bigger than that
and it needs to be entertainment for a lot of people.
I guess I've always kind of been driven that way.
I never wanted to just write a book.
That was never my goal.
My goal was always to be a storyteller
in as big a way as possible to write 20 books,
to have 10 movies, to have 10 television shows.
I want that and so I think that's always what's driven me.
So I won't sit down to start that process
if I don't already think it's got that life beyond the pages.
That's a really cool way of looking at it.
Like you can see potential way beyond just pages of a book.
That's really, what's one of my favorite things about you
is that you do so many of these talks online,
like on YouTube or whatnot, so many podcasts,
so many, whatever it is, TV shows, movies,
it's a really cool way of, you know,
you are all about the story, not about the medium itself.
Absolutely, 100% and what I've seen gone on,
you know, listen, when I started my career,
there was none of this, none of this existed, right?
And now the world you were in, the podcast world,
what's happening on the internet,
it's, and then the streamers,
you look at what's going on in the streaming world,
it's wonderful, we're at such a golden age of storytelling
because there's so many ways to tell a story
and there's not as many sort of walls as there were.
Anybody with a great story can find a way to tell it,
which is also bad because anyone with a great story
can find a way to tell it.
But the goal is that if you can live in this new world,
if you can figure out ways to tell your story
in as big a way as you can,
you can be very successful now and so I love it.
I was able to transition because I've always looked at it
that way, I was always looking at it as just not books
because to be honest, books are not doing that well.
The book business is a very different business
than it was in the 90s because people still read
but there's so many ways to read now
and there's so much competition
in terms of what you want to do with your day.
You just look at Netflix and Hulu
and all of this kind of stuff
and where's their time to sit down and read a book?
And so Michael-
Even audio books are huge.
Audio books are huge and I love it, listen, I love it.
I think it's fantastic because I can tell the story
that someone can listen to an audio book
or someone else can watch as a movie
or someone else sees on a streamer,
someone else hears a podcast about
or someone else sees my TED talk about.
There's a million ways for you to get,
you know, the 37th parallel is a perfect example
where that's a story which has reached so many people.
It's not a book that sold so many copies
but I know the story has reached so many people
and I think to me that's great.
And so that's always been my goal
and it's just to reach as many people
as I can with my stories.
And so, yeah, I won't sit down to do a project
unless I see it having that life.
And so, yeah, it's fun.
That's awesome.
I don't know how much time you have.
Is it cool if we talk about the Russian story or?
Yeah, we can do a little bit.
I don't have that much time left
but we can get into the Russian story a little bit, yeah.
I eventually, by the way, one day
I want to get you here in the studio to talk
because it's so much of a different vibe.
I'm getting one-on-one and I find you so fascinating, man.
Thank you, yeah.
Now, when this all ends, I'll be down there
because my parents are right down the street
so I'll be down there.
That's perfect.
I'm gonna hold you to it.
Yeah.
So, yeah, so tell me about the once upon a time in Russia.
How did that story come about?
Tell me in brief background on that.
Yeah, so I never intended to write about Russian oligarchs.
Let's just put that on the tail right now.
I don't think it's wise to write about Russian oligarchs.
I think that's something most writers should stay away from.
Basically, I got a call from a director,
a big Hollywood director, who was always pitching me stories
that were really dangerous.
He'd continually pitch me stories
that were about gun runners in Miami
or drug dealers and wherever,
and I'd say, how dangerous on a scale of one to 10?
He'd be like, oh, they're an eight.
I'm like, I'm not gonna do an eight.
I wanna do a two.
So one day he called me up and he was like,
I got this incredible story.
I want you to come to London and meet these guys,
but I'm not gonna tell you what it's about.
And I was like, well, why won't you tell me?
He goes, because if I tell you, you won't come.
And I was like, well, that doesn't sound great,
but I decided to go.
So I flew to London.
Who is this guy, by the way?
Brett Ratner, the director, Brett.
Okay, did he do once upon a,
once the gun runner with Jonah Hill?
He, I believe he was involved in the production
of that story.
Brett did Hercules.
He did the Rush Hour movies.
Okay.
And then he got me too, that of existence.
But anyway, pre-muted.
Sorry to interrupt a bit.
Yeah, no.
So I go to London and there's this bar.
I'm supposed to meet him at this bar.
And I, when I get to the bar,
there's all the security outside.
There's all these like armored limousines and,
you know, these guys with earpieces on.
It was just a crazy scene.
So I go in the bar and sitting at the bar
is a very famous Russian oligarch.
Billionaire, dangerous person, you know,
as these Russian lawyers often ask.
And I immediately think, oh God,
there's no way I'm gonna be involved with this story.
But I sit down and they proceed to tell me
this incredible story of how these oligarchs
basically put Putin in power,
how these guys made billions and billions of dollars,
essentially looting Russia.
And then Putin, once they put him in power,
chased them all out of Russia.
That everyone who stood up to Putin
is either dead or in exile.
And the oligarchs who stuck with Putin
are still oligarchs today.
And it was this incredible story.
It's about Boris Berezovsky,
who was one of the wealthiest men in Russia
until he went against Putin
and then was eventually found hanging in his bathroom
from a scarf, Roman Abramovich,
who was a young orphan from Siberia,
making children's dolls,
who then became the biggest oil magnate in Russia
in his 20s, was partnered with Berezovsky
and then ended up staying on Putin's good side
and basically paying off Berezovsky to go away
and then Berezovsky was found hanging.
So it's an incredible story, intense people.
I spent a year going back and forth to London
to meet with these people,
having terrifying conversations.
I remember one conversation,
there's a scene in the book where Roman Abramovich
and Boris Berezovsky and a couple of other Russians
need to get this guy called a red director
who runs a Siberian oil plant to sign off on their deal.
So they fly to Siberia and meet with this guy
and he says, no, I'm not gonna sign this deal.
So they fly back to Moscow and that night,
that man goes swimming in the Irkutsk River and drowns.
His bodyguard, who was the only witness,
gets into a bar fight and dies.
So I write this scene and then I call up the oligarchs
and I'm like, you know, the scene,
it seems like you guys had his guy killed
and they are, well, it seems that way, yes.
And I was like, well, is it okay
that I write the scene like this?
And they said, oh yeah, that's totally fine.
And I was like, well, why is it fine to write a scene
in which you guys obviously had somebody murdered?
And they said, well, you have to look at 1990s Russia,
not like 1990s America.
Look at 1990s Russia, like 1890s America.
In the 1890s, if someone refused you, you killed him.
And it wasn't a big deal.
That's how business was done in the 1890s.
And so in 1990s in Russia, that's how business was done.
And they were very mad of a fact about it.
And these are really intense deeds,
but it's just an incredible story.
And it tells you more about Putin
than I think anything else has.
If you read my book, Once Upon a Time in Russia,
you will understand Putin in a way
that I don't think our government understands Putin,
that I don't think most politicians
have ever understood Putin.
Putin has been underestimated from day one
when the oligarchs found him.
He was a low-level KGB agent
who was working for the mayor of St. Petersburg.
Boris Berezovsky and this group of oligarchs
were looking for someone to replace Yeltsin.
Yeltsin was old, he was drunk, he was dying,
and they needed a new president of Russia,
but they wanted someone they could control.
Boris Berezovsky knew Putin
because once he'd set up a car dealership
in St. Petersburg, and Putin had greased the wheels for him.
So he flew to St. Petersburg, he got Putin,
he said, we're going to install you.
So they installed Putin as president.
The first thing Putin did was he invited all the oligarchs
to Stalin's old house.
This is a house where there are bullet holes in the walls
because Stalin used to line people up there and shoot them.
So he invites all the oligarchs there,
and he sits down with them and he says,
you've all made an enormous amount of money,
you're all incredibly wealthy,
you can all keep your money,
but from here on out, you stay out of my way.
And on that day, everything in Russia changed.
Any of the oligarchs who stayed out of Putin's way
are still oligarchs today, worth billions of dollars.
Any of the oligarchs who stood up to Putin
are either dead or in exile or in jail.
And there was no middle ground.
Putin was one of these people that like,
he knew from the very minute it's all about Russia,
his greatest regret was that Russia
was no longer the Soviet Union.
He really and truly believed
that it should be what it was under Stalin,
and that he would be the leader for life.
And from the very beginning, he was set out.
Now, he's beloved in Russia.
Often people ask me, are the oligarchs
gonna band together and get rid of Putin?
It's the other way around.
Is Putin gonna get rid of the oligarchs?
They love Putin because Putin is a very strong leader
who truly believes in Russia first, Soviet Union first,
really feels like they should be
the dominant country in the world,
and is fine with corruption,
is fine with breaking eggs on the way to an omelet,
as long as it's done for the right reasons.
So he allowed every oligarch who made his money,
no matter how they made their money,
to keep their money as long as they stuck to the plan.
And so guys like Roman Abramovich
are still very powerful and wealthy,
and they're considered Putin's cash register.
When he needs money, he asks them and they give him money.
And that's the way it works.
And as long as they maintain that and support him,
they'll stay in power.
Holy shit, man, that is-
But I will say, I was terrified
the whole time writing that book.
I remember another meeting where I'm at,
with all these oligarchs, and there's all these security guards
and bodyguards around, and this guy comes up behind me,
as in London, and he just sticks something
in my back pocket, and I'm like, holy shit,
because this is like where people were polonium poisoned,
you know, you hear all those stories,
and he goes, don't look, don't look, don't look.
I'm like, all right, so I get back to the hotel room,
and finally I pull this thing out,
and it's a computer keycard.
And I put it in my computer, and it has on it
thousands of pages of legal documents from Russia,
with depositions of Putin's head of state,
going all the way back, telling the whole oligarch story.
And I'm like, holy shit, so they wanted me
to have all the information.
And now I'm like, I gotta fly back to the United States
with this, I have no idea whether this is legal,
whether I'm supposed to have this.
So I made sure there was a lawyer waiting
in the airport in Logan Air from Boston,
and I flew back and ended up being the information
that I ended up using to write my book.
So crazy stories like that.
I remember another time, I'm walking down the street
in New York City with this Russian strongman.
This is a guy who has definitely hurt some people.
But he's very nice, like I get along very well with him,
I've been interviewing for weeks,
and we're walking, and there's these NYU kids
walking behind us really loud, drunk NYU kids,
it's a Saturday night, and he's getting more and more annoyed.
And this is a burly, scary guy.
And he turns to me, he's like,
these people are very annoying.
And I was like, that's college kids.
And he goes, should I do something?
And I was like, what?
He's like, should I do something?
I was like, no, don't do anything.
Should I whack them?
I know, and I was like, this guy is gonna kill these guys.
Like literally, he's a scary guy.
I mean, some of these people were terrifying.
But it was a fascinating,
so I would never write it again, I don't think,
just because, you know, I have not been back to London.
I have not been back to Europe since writing that book.
In America, I feel it's very unlikely.
And in the end, by the way, the oligarch liked my book.
And I had word that Putin has actually read it
and did like it.
Because in the story, Putin's not the bad guy.
It's very different than Red Notice,
which is another great book about Russian oligarchs
or some of the other books.
In the scope of my book, Once Upon a Time in Russia,
Putin is the good guy.
Because even though he's vicious and murderous,
he is doing it to chase the people who are anti,
to kill his world.
He chases the oligarchs out of Moscow,
the ones who are corrupt.
He changes the corruption
so that it aids the people of Russia.
Previous to Putin, the oligarchs were looting Russia.
They were taking the resources.
They were stealing the money
and then taking it to France with them
or England or whatever.
Once Putin came into power,
every penny the oligarchs made went back into Russia.
If you wanted to maintain your status as an oligarch,
you needed to become Putin's cash register.
And he used that money for the betterment of his country,
as he saw it.
So in a lot of ways, he was the cop who came in
and scared all the bad guys away.
He's the ultimate mobster.
But in the same way,
the godfather takes care of his people,
Putin really does believe he's taking care of his country.
And so in the scope of Once Upon a Time in Russia,
I don't think Putin is the bad guy.
Wow, man, that is fascinating.
I have to say, that is,
I couldn't imagine there was a,
wasn't many times where you weren't scared for your life.
Yeah, I mean, I definitely had some questions.
You know, I'm not a risk taker.
I'm not one of those journalists who's gonna dive
into like some scary jungle somewhere to write a story.
I would never have written the story
had I not sort of been tricked into hearing it
and then realizing what a great story it was.
And to be frank, it was a very hard story
to promote in a weird way
because it did very well as a book,
but the movie we just couldn't get made.
We still might, and it's still a big movie possibility,
but we were very close.
Warner's Studio was about to make the movie
and then North Korea hacked Sony,
if you remember the hack, where North Korea hacked.
And after that, the movie studio just backed away, too scared.
And so, you know, one day it will get made hopefully,
but it wasn't the easiest story to promote or sell
or anything like that.
And I was afraid to go back to London afterwards
until I knew, I feel now very strongly
that all of the oligarchs who were in the book liked it.
But you never know.
And then I read about one of them hanging,
you know, getting hung or falling out of a helicopter.
And you're like, oh, shit, I know that guy.
So, you know, it's a little creepy.
I know that guy.
Oh my God.
Jesus Christ, man.
Well, hey, thank you so much.
I really appreciate you doing this.
You, your stories are so great.
Thank you.
Let me know when it's gonna be up.
The paperback of Bitcoin Billionaires is out now,
so anytime you can go up soon, it'd be great,
whatever, you know.
Okay. Yeah.
So tell people that are listening or watching
where they can find your stuff, find your books,
follow you on social media, et cetera.
Sure. So Bitcoin Billionaires is out in paperback,
so you can find it pretty much everywhere.
You come follow me on Twitter is probably the best.
So it's just Ben Messrick on Twitter because I respond
and that's where people send me stories
and it's a great way to keep up with people.
But the books are available everywhere
and the social network and 21 are both on Netflix,
so enjoy them, but thank you very much.
Awesome, man.
Thanks again.
