Hello world today my guest is Roger Reeves
Roger is a former pilot and international drug smuggler who ended up in prison for 33 years in
26 different prisons in seven different countries spanning four continents his friends and associates
Spanned the globe from the Medellin cartel kingpins George Ochoa and Pablo Escobar to mr.
Nice Howard Marks and the infamous Barry seal who was Roger's close friend and employee in his early 30s
Roger was making over a million dollars a day flying back and forth from Colombia
And he eventually hired Barry seal and on the podcast Roger gives vivid details to their relationship up to the very end of
Barry's life Roger escaped from prison on five separate occasions was shot down in both Mexico and Colombia and
Tortured almost to death in a Mexican prison. It is with great honor. I introduced to you the gripping tale of Roger Reeves
All right, good morning Roger and good morning to you Danny. Thank you for being here
I really appreciate you traveling all the way from the West Coast. It's my pleasure
so
to open this up
You served 33 years in prison
26 different
26 different countries no 26 different prisons. Oh, okay seven countries on four continents
33 years 26 prisons seven countries on four continents. That's right
Wow
How did all of this happen, how did you end up here?
Why don't you give people who who who aren't familiar with who you are?
Give people sort of a brief summary of your story and who you are
Alright, I was I was born down in St. Augustine, Florida in 1943 during the war
My folks went down there in the war to work and I was born there
And
Then after the war who moved back to Georgia on a three-move farm the back and cotton
Hard work and I stayed on that farm for 25 years. My daddy died when I was young. He was an alcoholic and
Seven little brothers and sisters just let doorsteps and I went to work at 14 years old in the grocery store paying the lunch money
It started off three dollars a day and the lunch money was three dollars a day
And I got a raise the next year it was four dollars a day, so I never didn't have a quarter left over
So I think it kind of make me
Appreciate some money
So I I got out of school and finished school and went up to Canada. I'd work in tobacco
Since we had a tobacco farm way around Ontario County
They had a lot of tobacco and the the Belgians are growing it and I went up there and I was
Working tobacco for $20 a day and I went to a carnival and I rousal to bear in a carnival for a $500 reward that I didn't get
And the bear beat me up
So I went to the beach the next day and there's a pretty girl on the towel and I talked to her and that's Mari
It's been 60 years ago, and that's your wife. Oh wife. Yes. How old were you in your matter?
18 18 years old
That's incredible. We got married a couple years later and so we have three children and
I got a job on the railroad and
I started making whiskey and I borrowed money and
Finally she and I wound up with 36,000 chickens laying eggs and the price of the feed kept going up
Eggs kept going down until I had to do something. So I started making moonshine whiskey
And I made a thousand gallons a week and I had four big vats 1,800 gallons each and
Those things blew up. I thought the revenuers had us and anyhow
I had quite a quite a run with them shooting at me in the bloodhounds and getting away from that and
We decided
We might all leave we kind of ashamed to go to church and people pointed the fingers at us and the grip
But the grand jury didn't indict me. They voted 12 12
so we moved out to California where I went to work in construction and I was a
Painting and working in concrete and framing and any other thing that had hard work to it
Then I got on the fire department in Redondo Beach
and I drove the back of a 108 foot hooking ladder truck and for several years and
Then we went up to Alaska we went fishing how the salmon trawler up there
and then
We came back and went back to work on the fire department. I just took a year's leave of absence and
I was hauling antiques that was a I met a fella and
I was buying antiques around Los Angeles like one of the first pickers. I had my truck. I'd go and get them
Take them to antique row and sell them every day. I'd make me a hundred dollars two hundred dollars and
So this fella says, why don't you go to Missouri? There's more antiques there than you can see
I said, why is that? He said well with back in the settlers
The 1800s they would come on the train to the Mississippi River
And they take the ferry boat across and take all their pianos and the big sideboards and the tables
And they couldn't get them in those two to becker wagons. I didn't realize it
The covered wagons was mostly stew to beckers scoot this thing up a little bit closer to you. All right
so
We loaded up hauling started hauling the antiques out of Missouri back to California and putting them in auction and I was reading a
National Geographic book and
it's talking about
Mercury and
Mexico was worth
It was worth 13 times more in the United States and I said I should go get me a load of that stuff mercury mercury
Just an article in National Geographic just something to talk about. We bumped along
45 miles an hour with a load of antiques and
So he says, oh that stuff is so heavy it knock a hole in the bottom of your airplane
I had a little system 182 by that time. Oh, you already had an airplane. I had an airplane. Yes
At what point did you just know what point did you decide you wanted to learn how to fly me a pilot? Oh
When I was young I read the book jungle pilot and he's a man Nate Saints started missionary aviation fellowship
And I read that book in my heart burned all I would just love to do that
And he started missionary aviation fellowship. And so it spread all over the world these men
Flying missionaries in and out sick people in another jungle. They fly
Medicine and he would he would just drop it with a cord in a bucket to him until they could cut out a little script for him
And I thought boy that would like to do that. I'm not made to be a preacher, but I could do something good like that
Yeah, so that was my idea
To learn to fly so I learned to fly Douglas George. Yeah, really? Yes
How long did it take you to learn to get your license and everything? Oh, I flew a long time before I got my license
I'm not one of them stickers for it, but it took me about eight hours before the instructors
Bought a session of 152 and I flew that thing all the way to normal Alaska before I got my license Wow
And yeah, I had an air experience up there chasing wolves
Chasing what wolves really taking the little instamatic camera taking pictures of wolves
And I got right down real slow and low and that thing stalled on me right above the wolves
And just almost turned upside down right across the tundra. I think that's just one of my lives got used used up. Oh my god
So anyway, that's how that's why I learned to fly and that's when I went to flying
And so I just kept getting a little bit bigger planes until I got a session one
Did you ever think that you could make money being like a private pilot or anything?
No, I just get it. I was working on the fire department. I had a little extra money
I had a paint and crew and buying and selling antiques and
So I just was into chips. I bought me a little airplane
And I think paid $7,500 for 182 those things 300,000 now. I'm thinking one about how much did you pay?
I paid $7,500 for $7,500 for a Cessna 182
Cessna 182. Yes. Wow. And now they're over 300,000 if you want to buy a new one
Of course mine was used at that price, but they still weren't much
So he says
What you hope you hold marijuana? That's the hottest thing. I don't know anything about it. I've heard the kids smoking it
I said, what would it pay? And he said, I think they would pay $10,000 for a trip down there. I said, I'm all for it
I said, what would they do if we catch you said nothing?
Probation. He said that thing's almost legal out here in California
So he introduced me to a fellow said you got an airplane you'd fly down there. I said, yeah
I'm going down there fishing all the time. Anyway, they don't ever bother me
Where were you going fishing in Mexico? Were you really? Yeah, I'd fly down there on some of my days off Murray and I
Take the children down there the baby and
So we just had a nice nice life there. We went far from Mexico and then Southern California, right?
so I
Went down and did a load and
And I come back they give me $10,000 on a paper bag that was two years pay on the fire department take home
And I shook it on the bed and Murray put her hand up over her mouth. It's oh my I don't believe it
The baby grabbed a hundred dollar bills and crawling around and we just left. We didn't know any money
We knew nothing so we went out dinner and then put it in a lock box
So what was that like the first time you actually flew down to Mexico to pick to to pick up marijuana?
Oh, I mean, it was just picturesque
It really was I mean what kind of people did you did you meet with and what was it? Was it what you expected?
Was it shady at all? Not at all
I went to a place called a lot of air cruise is the capital of the state of air cruises up in the mountains
And it was like Bible times the people who had like stone basins in the street
And they were scrubbing if the clothes of women were and I went under church a Catholic church
And I walked around and and there was the stations of the cross
I'd never seen those carved all the stations of the cross in a Catholic church
I understand now that they have to protect them because they're such valuable art pieces
and I was impressed with that and
Then I went out early in the morning to the airport to load the marijuana
And I had my fireman's badge in my wallet and so the old guard on duty
He was kind of suspicious of it in my show to my fireman's badge, and he was all helpful
So then I taxied down to the end of the runway and they met me with a van and put the stuff in and I
Was coming back across and didn't have enough fuel
I knew I would not have to land somewhere so I landed a little a little
Abandoned strip with a little stone house at the end of it and the man that owned the marijuana got in with me
So I put him out there, and there was a little little boy herding goats and his name was Lazarus
So we put the marijuana in a stone house, and I flew into I forgot one of the cities of
Mexico and refueled and came back out and sat there and had lunch with a little boy
And paid it back in and flew on home
Were you worried were you nervous at all? Not a bit and you were flying and you flew down there alone
Yes, but the man that owned the marijuana flew back with me
Okay, so we just we just having a trouble bit and then at what point did he pay you when you landed back in the US
Yes, they came the next day and paid and then the next load they cheated me out of it
That was all they had so the second load they didn't have to pay me really. Yeah
So I took it I found him and how to send a detective after we found him in New York
And I went up there and took a gun in his ribs and took him down to the wharf
What and he was so nervous he couldn't even light a cigarette
He thought they're gonna kill him of course
I won't hurt him at all, but I was gonna scare him in to pay him my money. So I took his dog
Wow was named Leslie a beautiful long-haired
Setter and he was so upset about taking his dog. He said take my wife take my wife
I said no, that's illegal. I'll take your dog
So I dog napped and I kept the dog and the children put bones in her hair
Because this guy didn't pay you for the second trip right so anyhow
He never did pay me so he called so much heat till our friend out there said give him his dog back Roger
You're gonna bring us all down
How so how did you find it you hired in a private investigator to like hunt him down or something?
He went up to a cabin where bill this guy's name was Bill and where he lived and in the in the
Fireplace with some burnt
Papers and he looked at it and there was where the dog was shipped to Vancouver, Canada and from their transship back to New York
So he he copied the numbers and all down before
Before he touched it. It's disintegrating. He found out we're right. He addressed where bill was
Wow
He wasn't really a private detector, but he's better than private detector
He was the guy that first introduced me to these people. Oh, he was the guy who introduced you
Riding across country, right
So then what happened? Did you have an itch to keep doing this stuff or oh?
Yeah, I thought that while this is just easy. I want to see a jet
I want to see you had absolutely zero fear of being caught or getting in any kind of trouble. No, well, of course I would flew
Just at the treetop level sagebrush would sometime be in my wheel wells
And I was afraid of hitting old power line at night or something more so than I was getting caught
What was the reason for flying so low?
Keep a keep off a radar. They had they had radar on the heels around there
And so they were trying to catch people they catch pilots every once in a while. Oh, okay. What year was this?
1973
73
Wow
So I went to the lawyer and I said lawyer
What like what'll happen if I get caught with a load of marijuana bring it in he says you work on the fire department
Yeah, and he said yeah ever been convicted. I said never had a traffic ticket in my life
No, no, no never a moving violation
So you'll get probation at the most you get a year and serve four months
Raking leaves on a military base. Oh
I kind of like that story. So I went bought me a bigger airplane of Cessna 207 that thing would cure 1100 pounds
And I could make $40,000 in a day. How much was I playing?
$35,000 Cessna 207, right
It's a stretch 206, but that's the same engine. Just it's nice 150 mile an hour
Cures 1100 pounds and go a thousand miles so great big old tires
so I
Started hauling so I bought me a new Cadillac. I didn't I didn't know about all this
About making people look at you and I had my mother and my baby sister come out from Georgia
And I took them to Disneyland in my new Cadillac and mother said
What are you doing boy?
I said, I'm hauling pot mom
She says how much you making I saw making $40,000 any day. I want to go down there
He said, what do they do if they catch you? So I told her about what the lawyer said about four months at the most
I said, what do you think mom?
She said, do you need a copilot son?
Wow
My mother was this boy. That's amazing. So did you ever bring a copilot with you or did you always?
No, I was flew bone. Yeah, okay, and at this point you're how old?
30 30 years old flying down to Mexico every day making $40,000. Yeah, we got word about once a week
And then you had six months or something. There was no pot
Okay, so you had to you had to work while are you still dealing with the guy who you had to hunt down and steal his dog?
I just I just got in touch with him a few weeks ago. He he got in touch with me on Facebook
I mean, I mean at this point when you're when you're routinely flying to Mexico and back. Are you still dealing with the same guy? No, I
I
We we separated a little bit ways. Okay. Yeah, but no hard feelings. I think that he just didn't want to get very involved in it
So you found somebody else you could do business. Well, I didn't even I didn't have anybody. I just did it myself
So what did you do? You just flew down to the same location and said hey who's got pot? Oh, he had it this guy walking is a
There's a little a little river come there just north of Mazatlan in the state of Santa Loa
And it came through a cliff in the rivers and had a like a waterfall
And then there was a poor poor village called peachy linky starving donkeys look like starving people and
On the bend of the river in the sand was a 900 foot runway if you could call it a runway you rutted
Yeah, that's a real short but the test of 207 would make it so but it wouldn't take off with a load
So this young because the runway was too short too short too heavy you need longer
You're right
So I would I would take enough fuel down with me and Mari and I would go to the grocery store and get little goodies and apples
And toys for the children and I'd pass out the boxes of those and they just loved them
So every day more and more children show up for that runway. They had heard of the American Santa Claus. It was coming
American Santa Claus
Yeah, we so I hauled mini loads out of there and one time I do it at I
Did it?
13 days in a row. I'd haul the load every day and so on day 13. I had that little thing in my stomach
I have a warning we all do like watch out watch out. Don't do it. So as this guy walking
It hair lip guy just ugly man. I said walking. Are you sure this place? Yes?
I'm paying the federal is off. No problem. No problem. This is I mean, this is the same routine you're taking every day
Yeah, you're you're used to it 13 times on the final day. Yeah, well what no final
I was I was on a roll. They had marijuana stacked up by tons. Okay, I'm just hauling all I can haul out of there
Right, but this guy Pedro would get into plane with me and more keen would tell him where he was gonna block a highway
Sometime it'd be 20 30 40 miles away and I would
Pedro getting a plane with me. He was light and we'd take off and go over and there would be a two-ton truck black in the highway with a
Rifles or machine gun on it and about a mile down the road would be another one blocking the highway
So I was on a major freeway. Well, why now why did they block the highway? That was my runway
Holy shit
So no so no cars could come and so I'd land they'd put 1,100 pounds in that plane
No, they'd like a bucket brigade off the truck
I'd shake hands with all the Mexicans with their sombreros and I'd get back into plane takeoff over the next blood without oh
My god, we every day we did it in a different place on different highways
so on day 13 I
Had the bad feeling all night long. It was just like ooh
I have that. I just have a gift of it. It was just like oh my and
the next one I went down brush my teeth just at daylight and
10 or 12 men walked down with me and
I got an airplane Pedro got in and I fired it up and it went bow. I
Thought a tire busted. I looked over leisurely
We did I have a busted tire and Pedro's yelling police see a police see a police see a and I'm not at the end of the strip
I'm a partway about halfway. So only got about four or five hundred feet in front of me
I usually just go there and taxi back down and turn around
so I just put
Put the power to
Right to the firewall cold engine and all just went tearing off down down the end of that strip and
When it got to the end of it
I was doing about 40 50 mile an hour and I rotated and when I did they was four of them two on each side
And they just shredded that airplane with machine guns
there's 80 bullet holes in there and they shot me down and
All the
Winters was shot out
I was shot across the top of my head and my knee and my toe was shot off nail off
And what were they shooting you from both sides of the runway from the ground from the ground
You see I just run between them right as I went to lift off your spring. They just riddled it
It looked like one in Bonnie and Clyde cars
so I
Went into shock. I reckon because the world just turned yellow
And time slowed down and the gasoline was just pouring in on me where the bullets had going up into the tanks above my head
and windshields was out and a bullet had hit the the strut right in front of me and
Pieces of splinters of it was all in my face in my chest and I
Just saw a head of me in the river the cliff was coming quick
And
It looked like in the river goes on your knee deeper less
With stones and it was big as this table look like great turtles just at daylight was in there
And I thought I'll I'll crash on top of those and maybe I can live into the water
So I just pulled the power and I didn't have no control over the yoke whatsoever over the elevators and
It went went straight in and when it did on the first hit the wings came off in the second hit
The nose came and went underneath the airplane
And I'm sitting there. I guess I was knocked unconscious from the jolt and Pedro was shaking my come on Roger
Come on Roger
And I just stepped out over the nose of the plane right on to the into the water of the river and those federales was coming
They were still shooting it
So a couple of them hit the plane and there was a pistol in there later on
I'd get used to carry pistol to start with and I found it more trouble than it was worth
But anyhow that morning I had one and a nine millimeter browning and I just reached and pulled it out of its holster because they're
now the
Radio where it was taped to his upside down. So it's just right there and I popped a few caps at those guys and they ran in the rocks
And so we took off and then I saw that Pedro's foot was nearly shot off
It was just and it wasn't bleeding all that bad. It was just like white
Muddling so I took my t-shirt off and tied it. We went on up the up the mountain
And there was a old donkey look like she was 30 years old swayed back
And he knew her sharp IT sharp IT and he read and we jumped on that donkey without a bridal or saddle
And we rode I understand now it was seven miles
And we came to a little house in a clearing and there was a small man
And he was plowing and he had a a little horse hooked to a little cow
And the two of them with a wooden yoke across their back was pulling a little plow
In some muck some stumps and he was trying to make a living out of a burn place
I this the natives do that sometimes and we went in his house and his wife and his daughter
Put some cloth on my wounds and poured diesel all over it to keep the flies off diesel fuel diesel fuel
And so he took off and he was gone all day and late that afternoon
Bunch of horses and mules come trotting up into the yard and there was a doctor there Dr. Benjamin social a red doctor
Red cross doctor and he gives a shot of morphine and
Tetanus shots and he tried to find the bullet I still have one in my foot and
He looked for it and he said we had to get to hospital and
That paid Pedro would die if he didn't get to hospital if they had killed one person on the ground
There they tried to run away that morning
So they took us to a road we rode a long way on on them mules and we got to a truck
It was a two-ton ten-wheeler loaded with corn in the ear
So they dug holes on one side for me and holes on the other side for him and buried us down in that corn and covered
Us up and they kept a little place for my face
But that was a real rough road and every time that truck would roll one side the other the corn to roll in on me in the
It's like and take it back off my face and we went through three road blocks
And they said they had a platoon of soldiers and over a hundred of them looking for an American shot down believe dead and
So we got to the highway after some miles and went into a house and had a white pan and
They just kept changing order. I think I changed it 20 times before I got the blood and older
Crue it off of me from that episode and
They got a taxi and they got a new taxi to take me to Guadalajara because they said the roads all north was blocked
So the man was a little dwarf of a man and I love this story. I was high on them
Morphine pills and shot that I had and I laid back on a big blanket and that little fella talked all night long
I said senor, do you have a family? Oh, yes, I have a beautiful wife door and three sons
That may tell you how I got my beautiful wife door
says I
live with my mother
My withered mother and you can see no girl would look at me
but I had my eye on door across the way and
So one day she's playing the flute in the back of a band is coming by and I
Opened the gate and pull her into the yard and my mother helped me get her in the house
And she sits in the chair and she sits there stiff all night
And I tell her I love her and I want to marry her but she won't even look at me
And so seeing you over the next morning
We have to let her go. Well, what could I do?
So she went home and just at daylight and she knocked on her door
And her heart hearted father says get away from here you prostitute you spend the night with some man
You're not my daughter anymore go away
So she hung her head down and walked away and that's when I went up and told her Dora
Let's talk to the Padre and senor. That's how I got my beautiful wife Dora
And said you won't believe it
But one year later. We had a beautiful boy
And I was driving a Ford dog for the taxi. It wasn't you so we named him Ford
and
Senor the next year we had another boy and
That year I'm driving a Dodge
So we called him Dodge and
Senor, I know you won't believe this but the third year we have another beautiful boy and at that time I'm driving chivalry and
the priest will not
Cristen him chivalry so I had to teach that son of a gun to drive before he would christen him
Chivalry and senor that's how I got my three boys for dodging chivalry
That's incredible
Wow
Yes stories one after the other my book. I have I believe
41 chapters and
Many of them are just like two pages or ten pages long. So on that last
On that last story you told where you got shot down by the by the federal is and you got you you got shot in the
toe and the knee and in the top of the foot across the top of the head and the top of the head
After you went and got all fixed up and you were getting transported through with the corn and
Where did you eventually end up after all that?
I went to grow a Lahore and got on the airplane and flew back to Los Angeles
Okay, and Murray took me to Wilmington where I got medical care in the hospital there
Okay, how old were you at that point was that one then was that your first time actually being shot at?
No, the revenues had shot at me back in Georgia before the who the federal revenues back in Georgia when I was making whiskey
They shot at me eight of them shot into their bullets at their pistols at me in your plane
No, I was on the ground running. Oh from a whiskey liquor steel. Holy shit
Yeah, they meant they mean to kill you they don't care if they got a badge and a gun and you you don't do what they say
They'll just kill you right. It's like all right
We got a license to kill him, but it was your first time actually in the trans when you when you got into the transporting business
Flying drugs back and forth. It was the first time that you encountered any kind of resistance. Yes
and so after you get back home to LA and
You're with Mari you get fixed up at the hospital and
I'm sure your wife's trying to convince you to stop doing this, right? Not particularly. I was pretty cool about it
We we went to Hawaii and I had to put my foot up in a on a crutch
So I had to keep it higher in my head for a month or two that thing thralls
And so the children bring me Pina coladas at the hotel in Hawaii and then we went to how bad did your fuck get messed up in that shot?
That was not bad. It just took took a toenail off of the top of the big toe and
One slug got into the foot and went right back at the joint a part of a bullet
Okay, so I wouldn't hurt bad
I mean to be Nick to be she could have been killed and I'm and one scraped right across the top of your head
Yeah, I got scar right across where it went across the top of my head. Wow
And so
So then we went to Dubrovnik Yugoslavia and we rented a rented a little
Volkswagen thing my foot was stuck out the window
So it was above my head and a in a military boot all tied up
And I had my Chevy's wriggle between me on ice and Maury's driving and she's going fast in that little Volkswagen convertible
And he's almost on two wheels going down towards Albania and the Russian troops come out or the Eastern Bok troops halt
So they explained that we've passed a certain path
Up the way 10 kilometers and we got here too fast or you're speeding and it's gonna cost you 500 dinars
And Maury's laughing trying to take that pictures and I said 500 dinars you have to take her to jail
Well, she straightened up right quick over
And so then I I paid it was $5 a hundred to one. Oh, okay
So that's what we did and then I came back and I bought a twin engine the twin beats that belong to the Beach Boys
It was a famous plane
And a twin engine what when it to a twin engine beach craft. Okay, they call twin beaches are beach 18s
Okay, and I bought 12 of those in my life. Is that one of those sea planes that lands in the water? No, it's just a big two
It's like a oh
It's a big it's a big twin engine plane with radial engines great big round engines on front of with the like motorcycle
Oh, okay, so they were wonderful point. Is that the biggest plane that you had owned so far?
Yeah, oh, yeah, I felt like I was really really in the big times Maury was in Atlanta and I bought it in
I bought the plane in
Wisconsin, so I flew down to Atlanta to pick her up and they were saying I remember the name
November 797 Juliet Fox truck keep your speed up 180
747 over to your right on runway such
Boy, I'm in here and I landed in taxiway and you're flying with the big dogs
I'm helping now. I was just gonna have a smile on my face
And so I'll tax it a long way and went up to hangar one and they rolled out the red carpet and Maury walked out there
And it was come out with a Surrey and got in the plane and we flew away
So that was that was a that was a step up like I should have been flying a 747 from
That's incredible. So what happens next? Oh, I flew that thing
Every every I need I just keep
Tear them up
One bogged down another one. I hit the end of a ditch in the night
Landing not to run what so you immediately start taking that new big plane to make to do keep now
I'm making what was I making about $80,000 a trip
Okay, and going to the same spot. No, we do different places. Okay
I even went to Columbia and
Panama and in a Jamaica. I like to I like the one in Jamaica. I
Had the fireman down there would load me
Oh, really? Yeah, and I'd get at night and I after
Midnight or something and I would I would taxi the taxi
We was almost two miles long there at Kingston and I'd go to the end of it and I'd say
Kingston Tower
whatever my number was I have a
fire a cabin fire lights up and
Boy, all of a sudden the fire trucks would come out of the station and come down
They threw a ton of pot right in his fireman wood. Wow
We got it fixed now. Thank you. Kingston Tower not take off. Wow. That's awful creative
I think they was only and only but it covered everybody so you weren't always landing on highways stripping highway
No, that was the only time I did it to that spot. Okay. Yeah, sometimes I landed military bases all kind of stuff
Right. So so you continue doing this day in day out making $8,000 a day. No problems. No, no
Probably you're in the season. I'd probably give her two weeks because I'd wait on my money and
It wasn't just automatic. Right, right. Yeah
So
How long does this last before?
10 years this lasts for 10 years. Yeah
With no hiccups. Oh, I had a lot of hiccups. I wrote a whole book of them
I mean, how long does this last before before the police got on to me before something else have not not like necessarily
before you're arrested but like
The story of
I remember there's a story where you're flying and you have to make a landing and your your your
Tires get stuck in the mud and then you end up getting stranded out in the jungle. That's that's one of my favorite stories
Let me tell that story. How did that happen?
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by raid shadow legends
It's been brought to my attention that a lot of people like to hate on their ads
But guess what? They got a lot of money. They got a cool ass game
And I don't see y'all paying for this state of the art podcast studio
Shadow legends has millions of players and dozens of sick ass characters when I first opened up this game
I was truly stunned by the graphics in the artistry and they've just introduced an entirely new playable faction called shadow kin
As you can see the shadow kin are heavily inspired by the mythos of medieval japan along with a load of eastern asian influences
They got ninjas samurai and a whole host of mythical badasses
They've only just arrived so get ready to meet new members as they arrive in game
I would highly recommend yoshi the drunkard raids just past their two-year anniversary and this month
They're releasing a new batch of epic and legendary champions, which look pretty amazing
They're also releasing their second version of the doom tower
But also two brutal looking bosses the celestial griffin and the eternal dragon
If you want to get a huge head start and raid all you got to do is hit the link below
And you'll get a free epic champion jotun 100k silver
50 gems and three agent shards all this treasure it will be waiting for you here
These rewards will only be available for the next 30 days and only for new players
So hit the link below and I'll see you in the game brother
Um
I went down and was this and what plane? I mean, I'm sure this is how many planes did you go through over this 20 25 different points
25 different planes. Yes that I can remember
And out of these out of the 25 planes like what happened to most of the planes?
Were they crashed or were they where they shot at most of them I'd sell and buy something different
Okay, so I just move them around but I guess I must have tore up. I think four that I tore completely up
Four yeah, and one of the pilots had tore up another one for me. So that's five. I can think when you say tore up
What do you mean by that? You just crashed them. I just crashed them. Yeah
Finished oh one of them was bogged down in the sand
But in the runway and here comes the helicopters you run off and leave it
So you just you just abandoned the plane after you ain't nothing else to do
Jesus
Okay, so we're talking about the the the story where you're playing you're trying to land it and I had bought a beautiful
Beautiful dc3. I mean museum piece. I believe union oil had on it and it was lovely
The
The pieces where you're in front of the seat let down was exotic wood carved in different colors for the countries
I had to take that
interior out what I did and I went down to columbia
And uh, I had to wait
Wait on a strip for time to go because I was over in the gorilla country
And while I was waiting I was I went over and I went to sleep under a under a tree
There was four of us had a co-pilot and the man that was who came me up to it
And he had some other fellow both to be nowhere to go
And I was in a hammock asleep after lunch
And I was under a tree and I just heard a terrible roar and I
Woke up rolled out of that hammock and I looked up into the ass end of two
military jets going straight up but after brothers going
And then they turned around just like the wood on an air show and they come up the airstrip
And just tore it up with 50 caliber bullets
And I said whoo whoo whoo
And I jumped out of that and I ran for the airplane
And I just give the guy 80 thousand dollars and he took off in the truck the other way. I should have went with him
But I was thinking about getting out of there
So I got in the plane and uh, I uh, I took off and the co-pilot got him with me
And uh, the two fellas and we had about 10 or 12 barrels of gasoline in the in the
Uh
Back in the baggage area or where the seats used to be in the cabin
And there's 55 gallon drums of aviation fuel. So I took off and uh, the two jets got right beside me and the pilots were so close
Almost like the you and I just and they kept telling me to go to viva incencia military base
Were they telling how are they telling you on the radio or no, they was pointing towards you
You could see them that close. Oh, yeah, we were just
They had their wingtips over my wingtips. They wanted me to go to the military base. They were pointing at it
And I just put up the old hippie sign. No, I'm shooting my hand at them. I didn't think they would shoot me
So they just kept swarming on me and I kept slowing that dc3 down until they were just standing on their tails burning all kind of fuel
Black smoke coming other tails
Those planes aren't meant to go that slow. No, so anyhow, they kind of went under me and started shooting them 20 millimeter cannons
Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom just shaped the airplane
So I pushed the nose over so they couldn't get under me. I'd fly a treetop level
And later on they said that I tried to crash into one of them, but I really did and I didn't know it
so uh
Later on they come and they they uh shot holes in the tail with 50 caliber just with a sweet
Just put a few and uh, oh boy that got my attention and then they then they shot up the left wing tip
And I said oh my and there was a there was a one of them left. I guess for fuel
so
There was a black rolling clouds ahead
Well wait first off under store first off. I couldn't get my wheels up. I didn't take on a dc3. They have
pens that you stick into struts so that if the hydraulic collapses the plane won't go down all the way on the ground
Okay, so it's just like a strut goes up down and I'd left those pens in I got into go so fast
So I uh
It was a big pasture up ahead. So I landed
and it was rougher than it looked in the and the
Fuel caps popped off all over the place
And uh, so on the world series baseball game it interrupted this baseball game to tell you there's american dc3
It's just been shot down by columbian jets. This is the first plane that's been shot down reagan new world drugs
And then uh, then in a minute it says oh, he's up up in a way
We'll keep you posted. I took off again
This was in the middle of the world series that you were getting chased by these columbian fighter jets. Yes
We have copies of that transmission. Yeah
There's actually like a recording of it. Yes during the world series. Uh-huh. Wow
So, uh, that would be a cool thing to find if you can I would I think I got my friend jerry's got a copy of that
really, yeah, okay, so
We went on and I went into these ball took off and I went into these boiling clouds and the clouds stick close to the mountains in the tropics
And those mountains go up 20,000 feet there and that part of columbia in the andes
And I was afraid to go in much further. So I I went on up to about 20,000 feet and I started getting some ice
So I came back out again and there was that jet right there boom boom got your plane. That's it. Wow
Was it all metal like that too also like shiny metal like uh one of those uh
those airstream bands. Yes that one was but they uh,
That one that thing is beautiful was a blue and white one
so, uh
Where was I
Oh, yeah, so I mean boom boom boom. He's shooting at me again. The pins the pins are in the struts. You forgot
I already I got them out caps popped off again with no no fuel caps on top. Oh, oh, oh you let you crash landed
No, I just landed on a pasture just straight up just a big cow pasture
Okay, those things got huge tires big as a semi truck. So they had stuff like that
Okay, that was rough. I mean it was up and down and I got out and took those pins out and took off again. Holy
Shit
So but I was afraid that he was going to hit one of them tracers shoot through the fuselage and hit
That fuel I should be able or hit the gas tanks. I'd just go up in a ball of flames
So, yeah, I was I was serious about it. So when I went back in I thought okay
I can't get away in the place the plane was icing up real bad at that altitude
So I just kicked it over into a stall into a spin
spin right down to about
2,000 feet and I just came out under it. It was just beautiful down on there
So okay explain that again for people who aren't familiar with uh with flying an aviation
So you took off again from the cow pasture. Yes, and you flew up to how hot 20,000 feet 20,000
I suppose about that and that plane wasn't made to fly that high. I want to go that high, but you need oxygen
Yeah, but you can stand you're not supposed to go 15,000 feet without oxygen
But you can stand for a while without it for sure. You can't right you lose your
Uh
You get fuzzy. Okay. And so what was the reason that you you purposely stalled the airplane vertically?
Oh to get away from that to get away from jet. I was gonna leave him up there
So I just stalled it and when you stall one you you put it up into a stall and put it fall over one wing
And it's like a falling leaf. It'll just spiral and it'll spiral and it's just almost go down as fast as you if you dropped it
I mean it really goes fast. It's like it's falling on one wing
Is this something that you had done before like I mean this seems like a crazy maneuver to try
No, people learn do you so you learn this when you're yeah, I think a lot of people learn to spin and and
The reason that you stalled the airplane was to get off of his radar or just just to get away from him
Just do something maneuver real quick just so like I don't know where you stop and then drop and then you lose you
Well, I didn't know that you would be he did right? So I got away from him and I and now I feel bulletproof. All right
Your adrenaline's pumping. I won't I'm gonna go get that load of marijuana
It's three tons waiting on us down there, but we can't go back to the gorillas because they don't run us off
We've got to wait till about dark to get there. Right. So I'm uh flying along the guivieri river
It's way on down in columbia closer to brazil
And it's on the same flight. Yeah, this is right after that's where I was supposed to go to start
We're okay. We waiting at that other farm right until we could go in the evening to the gorillas, right?
So I see a long grassy strip
It looked like it's 20 feet above the river and I said I gotta find a spot
We won't have enough fuel to fly all afternoon and then and then fly on
Uh
So on this grass, I guess it was about way steep and I just I just touched the wheels down lightly and I made a half a mile
strip and the wheels are
18 inches wide I guess
The first tray it looked good and the second row it looked bigger and the third row and I went four or five times and
Put a little more weight on the tires each time and it was hard as a rock
And so I told so you kept circling and going down touching down and and going to make you're making your own runway, right?
So wow, so I did it and uh
Where did you did you learn how to do this? Is this something that you learn?
Like, you know, but on the on the farm and a tractor you do all kind of stuff to get there didn't you know
It looked like it was smooth, but what I didn't know
And so I had the co-pilot's name out
And so when we was almost coming to a stop I said get your feet off that brakes out
I don't have my feet on the brakes and what has happened those that thing weighs 30 tons
And uh on those two tires, they were breaking through the crust. It was like
Oh, I guess about eight inches is deep a real hard clay like and beneath beneath that was soup where the water had stayed
So the wheels went through and it just started slowly doing a handstand until it went right straight up
And the nose and all just came in slowly on us and we fell in between the seats
To save our lives because it was collapsing on you the nose
We're just in the plane was coming up on its tail. Just like this. You're just like that
And it stopped right straight up and down 90 degrees. You couldn't have put a
A ruler on it any straight
And there's two big engines. You see those big engines. They held it up. Yeah, and uh
So I just undid the uh, emergencies
Uh hatch and step down in the grass
Al came behind me and we reached in and got our suitcases now the two guys back up in the in the fuselage
They got kind of banged up
With all that drum cases and it's a hundred feet not a hundred feet, but it's high up there to that door
I mean high so they tie a couple of the fuel hoses and they shimmy down
And we set out walking
Unbelievable man, and that was uh, that's when I they went down the road and I went through the jungle
So you're the middle of nowhere in columbia? Yeah, and I said listen
I'll eat snakes in this jungle for a year before I go down the road
After the jets had done what they did and what we did and
So I went through the jungle and after 11 days. I came to a place
I kept asking the indians don't just die of the ounce. Where are airplanes?
Loma Linda Loma Linda. Where is it? They hold so it's far
And I kept going where our airplanes. Where can I find an airplane? Okay
Where in the spanish don just die of the ounce aviones
So I speak into the indians and I eat brown sugar and drink the water and I had a
st. Paul
Bag from the cleaner plastic and I'd put the brown border block of brown sugar and I'd put that water in it and
I get along pretty good on that. Huh
There's brown sugar and water and brown sugar and water for some days when I didn't have anything to eat
So I uh, finally I came to a place
and
Wow, what is this place like Hawaii world war two
green roofs
Pasture a nice long runway several airplanes a tower and I knocked on the door. I said, what is this place?
How did you get here? My name is katie suit and a lovely voice
I said, I'm touring ship. We don't get tourist here. So
What is this place you don't know this is loma linda headquarters for missionary
Missionary aviation fellowship for the amazon
So god just tapped me on the shoulder
The same people that I had learned to fly
These are the people that went to their place and one in one of their pilots with an old missionary from canada
Flew me out the next morning and we flew to the same military base where they tried to get me to go
And the policeman reached in and got my bag out of the out of the airplane and put it in a taxi
Wow
And the other fellows went on to prison for some years down. They went to they went to prison. Oh, yeah, I knew they were going
Sure, I knew they were going I said come with me, please
wow
And that was the part where
I remember in the book there's a there's a specific part where you guys are in a jeep
And you're riding through the jungle and you see there's a checkpoint and they all went through the checkpoint
They thought they could pay them off
Yeah, and you got out of the jeep and you walked the other way we went some ways to start with that first
First day or the second day we got a jeep to take us and so we went. I don't know 20 30 miles
So it was at that checkpoint where they got they I'm sure it was I never talked to him
So yeah, I saw one of the guys in prison
He got real mad with me trying to beat me up really because I left him down there. I did you fool
So at what point at what point in your life? There's a chapter about
The the creation of the Medellin cartel
Yes, now was that the party that you went to yes out the airstrip that was supposedly
All of the drug gangs around columbia coming together and forming the cartel
What had happened was the way I understand it was it
They was uh, 10,000 people killed down in columbia killing each other
The price of cocaine was 10,000 dollars a kilo in columbia at that time at 50,000 dollars in the united states
and
One fellow to have 10 or 20 kilos and he'd give it to another person to take to
So I got a pilot or I got a way to get it there
And they would look into paper and oh in new jersey. I see 40 kilos was busted. Oh, I'm so sorry seniors yours was busted bang bang bang
Of course, he was being ripped off and he knew it. So he was killing them, right
so um
The ocho brothers and Pablo Escobar and a guy named gaucho
and the mexican
Several other ones they got together and says all right
We will we will form a they didn't call it a cartel. They're just like an insurance if if we
We will send it to the mexico to miami for you for five ten thousand dollars a kilo
If it gets busted anywhere between here and your man in miami, we will replace it in columbia. So you can't lose
Which can cost you ten thousand dollars ten thousand dollars just to get it to miami safe
That's right. So they was so they got in you dated with a hundred tons of cocaine
So they were they were like, uh an insured
Transportation company exactly and I'm their pilot. All right there at the beginning of it. I was there
So you were there at that party that that that purpose of the creating this alliance?
Well, I don't know that was a purpose of they they reached some kind of agreement at that time
But you had no idea when you were going there. I didn't know I was just down there trying to get some work
Did you did you meet any of these guys any of these like big time?
Oh, yeah, I'm at all of them. You met eskibar was there. No, I didn't see eskibar at that party
But I saw a lot of the other ones down there and I got a job the achoa brothers
No, they weren't there either, but they were behind it. Okay. There's police chiefs. They was stand-up comedians. They was actresses. They was
all kind of
All the people that these were all lower level. I don't know. They're pretty big
There's one guy that I did the first load
He had got caught with a a ton of cocaine and columbian and 16 judges were murdered and he was rather nervous
Wow, I did a load for him and I didn't like it the man. I gave it to we got shot in the stomach
It took a while to get paid and I just saw I don't know who were those so then
okay
So what I'm okay. Let me just tell you I'll tell you how it happened. Okay. I back up and tell you a little bit
I
I sold an airplane to a woman
from Bolivia
Sonia de Attila
She was like a black widow. I understand she had a lot of people killed and
I sold her an airplane and she wanted me fly base from
Columbia enough, but I didn't deal with her
But through this I met a man named
Jaime
Jaime Carrillo
Brilliant man kind of like church Hill
Um
Beautiful apartment overlook in Medellin at 20 floors up
And he was a drunk, but he had cocaine and lots of it. He had a lovely wife. They were older people
And he says yes, I pay $5,000 a kilo. I need y'all you want
So in sachets this woman from Bolivia and she kisses him on both cheeks and she has ferv rabbit fur coats and boots and
so
I have this lawyer with me. Uh this introducing me robert robert davila davila from bogota
And uh, she says she's going to the united states to buy a plane
So he winks at me and he said rogers over here's got some planes for sale
And so she looked yes, uh, yes, and so he's doing his fingers like this
So
I tell her yes, I have a queen there. Oh queen there. She likes to name queen there
For
Anyway, I have the planes rolled down and I have to go to columbia
To get my adieu to bolivia to take her in a trip her on charge to to get my money
And this is a gruesome story
Anyway, we uh land there the queen here the plane that you guys fly there. I yeah, okay
I had you I had several queen so you take her there to get the money so she could pay you for it
So, uh, it's just a con interest story
And so, uh, we land and oh
They just bow to her the police and all and they get a limousine with flags on it from bolivia
And they we get into cars and we go through town and we go out to the water tank and there's look something
A marble house that looks like a mausoleum but a
Razor wire fence all around it
Like it's a prism with itself
And they opened the gate and the helpers are all crying and red-eyed and
And
What is what's the matter with you people? I'm out. She's just really nasty
Your lion ate the baby
What are you main leaving a baby on the floor in front of a lion?
She had a cougar in the house. I went in behind her and there's that cougar with blood on his mouth
Diaper and shit blood all in the room. What? Yes
Oh
She hugs the line and runs all the people off you idiot you idiots. I never want to see your stupid faces again
The lion's just ate the mage baby
The mage baby the mage baby
Holy
Shit
So I got my money and got on out of there. Are you fucking kidding me?
and uh, James Clavel wrote the book um
Deep cover and he also wrote the the big white lie the cia and the crack cocaine epidemic and it's got a
A couple of I got a couple of mentions in it one of them says that I was in more more more dea files in noriega
And uh, who is who wrote the book?
uh
James Clavel James Clavel the same one that wrote deep cover
He was a dea i up in the cia he tried to kill him for exposing him about the crack cocaine
Okay, so he wrote the big white lie the cia and the crack cocaine epidemic
They developed it put it in every every city in the united states on one weekend
So the cia yes
What's the story behind that I don't know that they just wanted to sell their stuff. I suppose wow
I mean
So he said that you were on more dea reports than noriega. Yes, and then he's asking her if she can find me and says
We've been looking him for five years. He's on the 10 most wanted list
And if you can tell us of anywhere to find rogeri's we'll give you anything you want
That's that's in the book the big white lie
wow
so you saw this lady you're playing and then
This fucking lion eats a baby
and and then so at this point
What at what point do you become aware that?
Amid the america is looking for you
Oh, they weren't the dea. This was years later that this has happened. I'd uh
Okay, so I hold and how much money are you making at this point after you sold sold her your plane
I'm not making much money at all. I mean, I'm in fact losing some I'm losing pretty good much airplanes and
Different different reasons. I'm not I'm not doing very well during those few years there about early 80s
It was kind of a dry time. Mexico had got so hot and I'd been shot up down in tortured in a Mexican prison
Until I didn't want to go to Mexico anymore
Well, you you when did this happen? You were you were tortured in a Mexican prison. I almost tortured almost to death
Let me tell you about that. I'd like to tell I'd like you to tell me about that. Yeah, please roger
Oh, and this and is this
Before or after?
Oh, this is the medicine cartel was formed. Oh before before this is why I didn't go back to Mexico anymore
The couple of episodes happened down there that I that was not healthy. Okay. Um, yeah, please tell me about that
anyhow, I was arrested in Mexico and
My seven agents and
I won't get into that long story where I went ahead and got away from all of them with the bullets flying and got away
But I had a pilot coming down an older gentleman and he landed at Hermosillo at international airport
He was supposed to land five miles beyond at a cattle ranch a feedlot
And he just I don't know why he did it
But anyhow, he had my phony name and my room number
in his pocket
And he had $5,000 and the federally tried to take it from him and he rousal with him. No, no, roger said give it to someone
so
See anyhow, they arrested me and put me in prison down in mausoleum
And they number on him up in hermesea and he told
So they want me to confess
I
So I just can't believe it. I haven't done anything. I'm just in a swimming pool and I'm in my
Women shorts and I get handcuffed in the pool when the guy shakes hands with me
Where like a house or something there in a real nice hotel a real esoteric
So they take me to the prison and I sit there and I sit there and I mean it was miserable and it was so hot
And after about three days in that little in that cell we just were all the drug addicts and drunks were thrown
They've taken me back there to the torture chamber in each side
I'm going to tell and they hold my head under a gaseous water until I can't stand it any longer
And then you just fight like crazy to come up. I mean burns you daylight held your head under the underwater
Yeah, it's like a tub and it's got some kind of
Bubbly it's if you inhale it it will make you nearly explode your head
Okay, it goes up your nose any after one time of that you it take four of them to hold you down. Wow
So anyhow, I had that and then I was beaten all over till I was just yellow and black
What were they asking you or were they trying to get anything out or they just signed the papers and it'll all be over
Sign it. It'll be over. They grab your hair and shove it up signed the papers
So over the papers for just to confess that you were marijuana smuggler and you're gonna get six years in prison
Okay, I thought well if you don't sign it, I knew
They can keep you two years for nothing, right but
Uh
So, uh, they give the uh
um
They they uh, the room was about five foot square and 14 feet high and it was hot
There's a little spot on the door about that big
And they brought a man in he's a black man and he was wrapped in uh, he was frozen
And he was wrapped in newspaper about inch strips around just like you'd wrap something like a mummy and you're completely frozen
And they stuck the ice hook in his rib
He must have been used over and over again and they hung him on the wall
And as he thawed out
His eyes the water run down his face and it looked like he was crying
And then of course the water the the formaldehyde ran out of his orifice as other ones do
And the old paper come running off of him and later on you could see his liver where it's pulled apart
And they'd open the door you next son of a bitch you next
and
So anyway
That didn't scare me so bad. I'd butchered large animals all my life
But I the smell was awful with that formaldehyde puddling on the floor and the floor didn't bother you that much
Well as far as liver and a dead man. It just that that didn't scare me. It's okay. All right
I like it, but it was no more than if you had a
whatever yeah, so
I had to sleep that floor was filthy and on the wall
Dried blood where they that was just one of the room that they hurt people in they kid you back there
So I went to sleep and I put my head down on the bottom of that door
To breathe like that and I'm breathing the fresh air from that side
But I'm getting a formaldehyde over close to me and I went to sleep
And I had I knew where Walt Disney got some of his cartoons from I had pink flying figs and horses and all kind of
colorful animals flying around in my
in that state of mind
From from breathing the formaldehyde I was
Something and so then when I woke up and I saw that dead man hanging there
It took a minute to figure out which was a nightmare and which was real
I had to kind of pinch myself to see which
Where the reality was right?
And then they took me out and they bent me over naked
and buttered my rum bum
and
packed it full of hot chili
a ground chili
And I'm talking about streaming and talking ugly. I did some of it. I looked at their faces if I can find you
I will kill you if I can get out of here
Oh my god, and then uh, so just one day
After after that they put me back in general population for a few days and you didn't sign anything obviously
Of course, I didn't sign it. I would have died for what signed up six years for nothing. This didn't do it
Uh
So back there. I got a word out and tamari and some other people
And then one morning they just come said come come quick and they took me out the back door of the prison
And they put me in a pickup truck brand new and it had a horses
He had on the door and they sped through the streets of mauset line and they went to a bank
and
I went into backerspoke english and he said listen walking. That's where I got shot down that morning
And I slowed I went back after
Has given
robert of the 17 thousand dollars that you paid for the loan and he has paid it for the
To get you out of this prison. Are you satisfied with that? I don't ask man
So I went to the hotel where marie was and we got on the 747 and I didn't believe I was out of there
I looked terrible. How many days were you there about three months three months?
Yes, so I got out of that place and uh
When the when the tires of that 727 was a brand new plane. I just couldn't believe they're not going to come get me again. I was
In the wheels went up to ka plump next stop logans leaves
I was like wow that was on the 4th of july 1974 after that
I got a statement. I would have been like ready to call it quits. I didn't I didn't want to go back to Mexico anymore
That's one reason I kind of quit. I had another encounter that was bad there too
So after after several of those encounters
Okay, I uh, I decided to go to columbia
Columbia they don't they don't treat you as bad if you go to prison there. They're more professional or professional
You didn't go to prison. You just had professional people loading you had good gasoline and okay
They had a better operation going all they were these other people were
Where peasants said, you know, some of them maybe couldn't even read and write it had something going. Oh, man
so at what point
Did you meet berry seal?
I'd been flying uh flying cocaine and uh
Maury and I decided we'd or I decided we'd look for a place of it was in Honduras
So we flew down look for a place a place of a ranch a place of kind of a hideaway a beautiful place in the mountains
So we could have sort of have a place and I had all this money. You were going to purchase a play of a ranch a ranch, okay
So we flew down to Honduras and oh we we did go to a beautiful place and uh, but we decided
Not to buy it. It's just too too remote. But it was just beautiful
So we came back to san Pedro Sula
And our clothes is all muddy and dirty from a week up there on that ranch and food around by Lake Azul
and uh
So we took them to the cleaners and he said I'll have them ready tomorrow afternoon, of course
They weren't ready. Well, okay first thing tomorrow morning
So Maury had the the children with her with us. We had the three children and uh
I said well you go into the airport because it's easier for me to get out to New Orleans on
Just one of us if all of us miss it's gonna be hard to get out
So she went onto the airport and I went after the clothes. Of course
It was slow getting I got on an old taxi and I had a wad of them and plastic bags
And I give the guy a hundred dollars and to go faster and he just blew the horn more
So I got there and the plane's taxiing out on the tarmac
And uh
So I run and I got the clothes on my back and I waved to the pilot nicely and fell and he waved back
Then I see Maury's face into cockpit. Yeah, and then I see the the nose wheel go down and he stops
And he laughs and he lets the
Stairwell out for me. Yep, and then he pulls it back and takes off again a little bit like a hitch
I could gonna stop not gonna pick you up. She had some fun
So finally he put it out and I go on with that load of clothes and the whole
180 passengers are clapping for me when I get on that's so funny
So I go down and I sit down and my daughter's sitting in the middle and she saved me a seat about halfway down on the airplane
And I sit there and we take off and the wheels come up. I guess she's about nine years old
And then he's going up about 5 000 feet it went could clump
She said what was that daddy? I said he just turned his autopilot on
Oh
So fellow leaned over I done looked at me had nice clear blue eyes. He just looked too sharp. I said he's dea
Be high ci or something really that big fella sitting there. He looked like rex tellison
Where did you guys take off from again? San Pedro Sula Honduras San Pedro Sula. Okay, it's over on the carabin side. Okay
Death capital of the world for some years
The what the death capital the murder death murder capital murder capital the world for a good many many years later just some years back
But at that time it was laid back and wonderful, but a nice halfway stop coming up
So when I said that he leaned over said you fly these things
I got a few hours. Mr. My name Barry seal. How you doing?
And so then he got to talking to him and we talked to airplanes and so forth
He said I just got out of prison this morning in Honduras. I got caught down here. I didn't believe him one bit
And he said it he had been a transfer of airline
Captain and that it was I don't believe he told me his xc. I but commercial. Yeah, he was flew 747s
I believe he was the youngest 747 pilot that the twa ever had
and he took a load of explosives
down to the
Cuban Contras and got caught with a dc6 loaded with 10 tons of explosives and he lost his job with a
twa
So then he was working doing whatever he can like this freelance and he got in trouble
So I didn't believe him a bit, but we chatted about airplanes all the way on the new one
He's straight up just told you this on the airplane that I just got out of prison this morning, you know
flying explosives to
To the contrast that was before I believe he had he got caught with 100 kilos in a little piper
Okay down there and he served a year. Okay. I didn't believe it a bit. I thought he's just trying to pull me out
So when we landed in New Orleans
I took hands with him a nice fellow
And got out there and here's 20 or 30 people
Women and children hanging on him crying begging hanging his neck and I thought that guy's telling the truth
Ain't no way he could stay sat
Wow
So
I went over to him and I'm already to write our name and address and the phone number on it
I said barry. I might have some work for you if you're interested
Come out see me in Santa Barbara
All right, I'll do it
So a week or two later he comes out and
I had a didn't learn his lesson, huh? Well, he's ready to make some money. Oh, yeah
So I said I I'm holding cocaine out of Columbia and would you be interested? Oh, yeah
Well, let's see what you can do with flying. I didn't know what kind of power people all kind of policy people get the license deal
Can't fly. I don't know right so
I had uh, what was your biggest concern with him when uh, he came out to meet you in Santa Barbara and you were
Talking to and you were talking about hiring him. What were you worried? Were you worried about anything like?
Like obviously his flying skills or like where you had did you have any sort of suspicion that he could have been
CIA or undercover or anything or not after that not after she and his family and I found out he was already in prison
All that sort of stuff. Just they don't do that. Okay. I was comfortable with him. Okay. I really liked barry. He was my friend
We you see the door for some people or we were just like
You guys got along where you get along good really. I liked him and uh
So I had a 690 aero turbojet aero commander that thing when you're in you. What's it called again?
Aero commander or 6 6 90 that's uh, 6 6 90 6 90 be be aero commander
Yeah, and it was it had a little jet engines that turned propellers that thing was fast
It'd go to 300 or something miles an hour and it go right on up there right with the jets for a while
anyhow, he got in that thing
And I said show me what you got and he said show enough
I said, yeah, and it wasn't but the little while I said you don't have to show me no more
He was like bob hoover. He just did the I mean he was aerobatic like the really oh, yeah
I fly all right, but that guy was like the blue angels. I mean it was just like
Like and then he cut the engine and he just let it fly sideways to sideways till it comes hits the ground
The only person I've ever seen that's in this air show with bob hoover the world champion
So he was that good. He was good. He had a thousand parachute jumps
And in that movie they made about America made about him. It was so wrong
He was such a gentleman. They had him coming out of whore houses and the women hanging all over him
And yeah, that was just I never heard him say damn
He didn't smoke. He didn't drink. He didn't do drugs. He was a businessman. He was a pilot and a gentleman
So after you were so impressed with his acrobatics and his flying skills, then what'd you do?
I said, uh, Barry, I gotta explain each tanking. You know somebody you said, yep
Needs what need tanking? I need it won't go the range
Oh, and these tanks in it. So he said, yeah, I got a mechanic in uh,
Meena, Arkansas. It keeps his mouth shut
And so I gave him $10,000 and he flew away in my new airplane
A few days later he called and said come to my house. I went to his house and it was all tanked up
And that's when I told him, you know, I've been stopping it. I'll hire you to fly
You know, I'll give you $2,000 a kilo. I was getting five
And so he was happy with it and I said, but now we don't need this plane tank
Oh, first off, we did a few loads
And he would fly down and meet me in Belize at a ranch. I had you know, orange walk
And we would change the load over but then it got dangerous. I figured, you know, we got 15 20 million dollars
The cocaine changing planes here and I would go into Jamaica
Uh, because I didn't mind flying out of flying that southern end, but I was scared across the u.s border
I'm not scared, but I'd rather not fly. All right done
So, uh
Well, then I told him what you we can refuel in in the military base in
Nicaragua
Well, he just couldn't believe it
So that that's the only time I really ever impressed him
I said you didn't come out of Bolivia out of columbia anywhere and they had that military base
No words just come right in they'll fuel you up give you steak and eggs and
Polish your airplane. You'll be on your way really. Yeah
So
Barry flew and I mean he would fly but he wouldn't fly another until I paid him
So he did 500 kilos it to load and so he was a million dollars he made
and uh
A million dollars for one flight. Right and uh, he hired this guy in meal camp
I had to give the 20 000 dollars for him to go down get a meal out of the Hunderinian jail
And he meal wasn't much of a pilot or he could fly but he wasn't
He just get him around right so
The two of them flew together great big fellows. I said good and it's gracious two of y'all you can put 400 kilos into where y'all sit
But anyway, he wouldn't fly without it. So, uh, you might like this little story
He uh, he wouldn't mown and groan until I paid him. Well, I didn't get paid until they got paid
So I had a pipeline coming and sometimes they had owe me six or seven million dollars
It'd take three or four weeks to for them to get money and then I'd get get what they did
So I was paying him before I got paid. So I was like a loss. I'm I'm back
Right. You're front. You're front in that money. Exactly. Yeah, so
Uh, he wanted so you were you were paying barry. Uh-huh. How much would you pay him on one trip?
Uh, two thousand dollars kilo. I paid a million dollars a trip. So you'd give barry a million dollars cash
Yes, he would fly where?
He would fly we we he'd fly out of uh, where we wanted to up in arkansas or lusiana
And he would come over to a little radio station like where would he go?
Where would he fly like to he'd fly to columbia? Yeah
But but we didn't know where we were going a lot of the times
Uh, we would uh, we would come over el banco. It's at the forts of the magdalena river there and uh
Behind barranquilla and there's a radio station. I believe it's still 720 a.m. On your aisle
And we come at 10 000 feet circle
And pretty soon there'll be a plane you'd see it might be already there be like usually a sesson 180
And he'd be circling and you'd get right behind him and you wiggle your wings
You might go 100 200 miles and he'd get land in the jungle. Oh, and they would tell you where to land
They wouldn't say a word. We didn't speak
We just followed that other just follow the plane follow him where we'd go and there was a signal
They would do with the with the wings. Well, we just knew it was him. It just yeah, okay, and uh
So follow that plane did that sometimes some of we go to the same place
But if there was a new place we'd follow that plane. Okay, that was pretty neat
And then uh, you come back stop it
Nicaragua refuel and come all the way on he go and he went to manor
And this is uh, what so so he had the million dollars in cash
Yeah, I give him the million dollars every week. What would he do with that million once he landed there?
So that was just his that wasn't for his cost to buy the cocaine or anything
No, we just I got paid five thousand dollars kilo
So I got paid two and a half million dollars and I give him one million
Okay, but wouldn't they have to give him the all of the cash though? No, they didn't give him anything. Okay. Okay. He just give he
All right, he would land in minnow arkansas
Okay, and then he would put it in three different cars
Okay, and and every day I had a fella buying me six cars a week great big ones. So he was okay. Okay. That was where I was confused
None of the transaction revenue is going through the pilot at all. The pilot is just a delivery person
He's a truck driver. Okay. Got it. So but anyway, he would I had
He had the drivers. I didn't even want to meet his drivers
That's how I was afraid to meet people
Right, they get caught they're gonna tell on you all dead. So exactly. Uh, I had somebody buying cars
And they buy these ltt's or the forward
Forward or mercury marquise and they had big trunks. We put air shocks on tires. It wouldn't go flat new hoses
Boom boom and then I gave those to the columbians
and they would be
Trunk full of cocaine and
Duffel bags
They have rattlesnakes on it. Some of them have cow horns that meant this one went to this one that went to that one
Oh, wow
so
I had to just point the cars out to my friend lito and give him the key
Bam, and I never want to see that car again. I said it's going to your safe house. I don't want it back
Right. It's five thousand dollars to you, buddy. Oh, I said you take it to new york. Count it where you want to
It's it's as good as you can do. So they liked it after a while
Wow
So anyway one time barry was a belly aching a little bit about might be being slow on pace. So I was in the store
And I saw see stay free mini pads
Pretty package stay free mini pads tampax. Oh
Oh
Australia tampa and uh
So I got a million dollars and put it in the box and I put those tampons on top of it stay free
And wrap that thing up put a bow on it
That's great barry loved it. He made a place on his mantelpiece for those for the stay freeze. That's amazing
Yeah, that is absolutely amazing
So how long did your and barry's relationship last? Not two years
Two years two years. Uh-huh. And what when did it go south? What happened when it went south? I got arrested in august 1982
Okay, so that that was the end of it and then he was still and then he went straight out full on working
And he bought the planes
From me he gave marry the money for all of them and what zoe and all that he he took care of 100
But he cut me out of the deal. He ought to give me a little percentage after that, but he didn't right
So you how did you get end up getting arrested?
Oh, I just flew down the loon. I had 15 million dollars in a in a jet and I charged it out of san antonio
and I flew down to
What kind of a jet it's like a
Falcon I believe it was
And I and there's two pilots and I was laying on top of the money and I took it to the bank and put it into bank
And the pilots said they wanted to stay for the weekend. Oh, man. It's holiday
I said, all right, I'll catch a jet back to miami. Okay, which and so when I landed miami
I was arrested and they charged me with all kind of stuff
But marijuana all marijuana stuff all marijuana. They didn't get any cocaine charges nothing
They didn't know anything about it. So I did two years
And I got out and by that time I found berry was
Had been working with him and he'd been working with all over north and he'd been picking off
How did you find out he'd been informant and working with these guys? I had heard it already
Okay, so I was scared of him so when you were in prison, but I will just tell you now berry had it paid off
He's whenever I I wanted to land in lusiana. I had a
Sheriff there sheriff there in a place that could put $10,000 or I landed on interstate 10
They was building it was beautiful. I followed that thing all the way across texas landing on is they was building interstate 10
The best runway you could ever find wow
With a truck there and turn light on that's it
My long 10 mile long runway
We go out in the next morning and rub the black marks off where I land
Oh my goodness so so after you got out did you try to get reach back out to him or you you were done with him
You didn't even try you want to know what wasn't it wasn't that I I couldn't think that very I didn't know what the deal was
so I was uh
Watching I was having breakfast
And uh, there was ronald reagan's blue eyes right there on television
We said we have absolute proof that the communist sandinista government is in the cocaine running business
And there was that old fat lady the c126
On the runway in nick roug will bear belladine and I oh
She let you sold the plane too
No, that was one that berry on uh
He bought that after me, but I knew what he was doing and I knew that they was into it
so
But berry i'm going to back up now. He wouldn't land anywhere else
He says I got paid off to the governor. I got paid off just as high as you can get this
But it's going to cost you $50,000 every time my wheels touch the ground in minna arkansas
So every time he landed I had to pay $50,000 wait wait wait what what yeah
well
What part of the story is this you're backing up now you're backing up but this is before you got a
No, I'm talking about you talking about berry
wanting to land at minna arkansas instead of
Louisiana
He when when I started flying with him. He said I will not land
anywhere else except minna
I got it paid off. I cannot be arrested. I cannot get caught in minna arkansas
Okay, so he claimed he had some sort of a deal in minna arkansas where he he could not get he wouldn't get caught
He was protected exactly so later on we know that it was a cia
And they were shipping guns back down with him, but he also said he was having dinner with the governor
So mr. Clinton was uh
Not far away
He was a strong man or the governor in his his home in minna and the the movie that tom cruise made
Yeah
Was written and played out as minna the name of the movie
And the democratic party got so hard behind him until they couldn't come out with the movie
Until after the election with hillary clinton
Because it shed bad light
Wow
So the director quit
And that movie was changed all around and changed into america made in a very poor movie, right?
But so they were hitting too close to home
So what did barry did what kind of details did he tell you about about minna arkansas and his sort of like
This is a cloak of invisibility. He just said listen. It's gonna cost you 50 000 dollars every time my planes hit touch her down
I cannot get caught listen plane out. I cannot get caught in minna arkansas
It's 100 protected immunity. He said from the highest of them right on out
And then time or two. He said i'm having dinner with the governor tonight
I don't know where he was or not, but uh, that was what he mentioned to you casually. I'm having i'm having dinner tonight with the governor
Wow
So and then later on we know the ci was putting some small arms on his planes
To take back to the contour so they could load it up with cocaine
Can you imagine what they thought they was going to do with a piper full of ak-47s in a war?
That was just a front
What do you mean? It was a front
The ci are some outlaw ci agents
Are saying okay, we're gonna supply the war
Uh congress won't supply the arms that we need to fight the uh the communist in uh nicaragua
So we're gonna have barry and uh, he's gonna take these guns down for us in his piper
Right. It's like a bb gun. It wasn't enough guns to really make a difference on anything for anything nothing absolutely
But we're gonna bring tons of cocaine back to pay for them
Oh my gosh
So what uh, I mean, i'm not super familiar with the story
But what were they doing so if if barry was bringing back tons of cocaine to arkansas
Yeah, who was buying it? It was spreading it all over. They're putting it in that crack cocaine business. I was supposed to suppose
And so anyway, they the
They they had to hammer down
Yeah
Now so you're you're saying that actual like politicians and stuff and and cia
Officials were purchasing this cocaine and spreading it out and selling it to people
They were having it. They were buying it in in columbia
Shipping it up by barry and of course they were distributing it. Oh, they had their people distributing it
That's mean. That's what the whole story is about. It's there's no secret that this is what i'm telling you. It's just real
wow
and you and
You kept in touch with barry. So after you got out of prison
You kept in did you keep in touch with barry at all? No, I didn't keep in touch with him
marry did somewhat marry because marry sold planes to him after he well
He just came and bought her the money for the planes and said marry. This is this is straight
So I didn't I didn't think too much about it anymore. I was all right
So when I got out of prison, I went out just a short while
And some days when I saw ronald regan blue eyes on the television
Saying that the communist sandinista government was in the cocaine business
And my guts turned to ice water. I said, oh barry has done it
So then it was later on that afternoon. I got a call from him
He said i'm coming out tonight roger. I'll meet you at this little um
French restaurant town. I didn't know what was there
So I'll be there at nine o'clock. Where was this in for santa barbara? Okay
So, um
I came in the door at seven at nine o'clock
And he was leaning at the back of the wing and he'd gained weight and he was leaning back
And I walked up to him. I said are you wired barry and he said no, I'm not I said well
I'm not gonna say anything just tell me
So he just started talking and I looked around and I says uh
DE agents he said everyone uh
There's about 20 people in the room blue jeans ladies with leather skirts and all on and
So the room was full of DEA agents and I'm
I'm on this hot seat
So I he started telling me and he just said roger they they wrapped me up and they uh
Left me holding the bag
I couldn't do anything but testify
I couldn't do three lives in this and he put his hands up over his eyes and the tears ran down between his cheek
Between his flankers. He's I just couldn't do it. I just couldn't do it
He said so I've gone to congress
He said I went to see edwin meese. It was attorney general at the time
It flew my jet up there and I knocked on the door and told him that they were bringing tons of cocaine out of
Columbia and he wouldn't believe me. He kicked me out and the next day I went back and I said I can prove to you
They're doing it. So get the guy jake Jacobson
He put him with him. He was a DEA agent
and uh
we went down and
Did one and a half tons and I billed the plane in at nicaragua
took a thousand pictures
And I testified before congress and I've told them all your part
But you're under my umbrella as long as you testify with me exactly what I say and we use my lawyer
You can have your passport have your money you can live anywhere in the world you want to
I said barry. They're gonna kill you friend. Oh, no
Old chore brothers this and the other he's in spain the other one dead and this and that and other
and uh
So I uh, so the the DEA agent came over and they sat down
We had chevros regal and ice and we had a nice time. I liked him
He's a I think crop duster from Alabama. We'd have been on the same team. I'd have been all right
I really did like the man. Yeah, and he just said listen you can you can come to miami tomorrow and change
Or you can come first class with mari
It doesn't matter to me, but you're going to testify before federal grand jury
And if you do you can keep your money your passport you live anywhere in the world you want to live
But if you don't the only place you're going to ever see your family again
Is in a federal prison visiting room
And he said and you got to have your pilot from Santa Barbara
You got to give him up very new that I was flying had another
Airline going same as him did more than he did
But he didn't know who columbians told him. I didn't ever tell him right right. They trying to give a little competition. I think
so
I just my guts turned to ice water and I went to see my friend
My friend Jerry I'll see his name and me and been him been friend 50 years
I wouldn't know where I could tell on him just couldn't do it. I mean I was just sick
So I went told him I said jerry. I don't know what they're gonna do
But they cut my tongue out. I won't tell on you
It's not gonna do it
So I thought well, I better go down to Miami and see what I can do
So I went into a fancy lawyer's office and
He was on the treadmill and he got off and I talked a little bit and he said well
Being a snitch is like being pregnant. You either are or you're not
Interesting way to put it no no no it ain't that man. I've got to say something
I'm in a mess. I got he said well if you say something you got to tell him everything
You leave anything out there use everything you did you're gonna get several life sentences
I went to see another lawyer and he was just kinder, but he said the same thing
You you fool with him. You've got to tell him everything you leave anything
You work with him. You gotta go all the way all the way you gotta tell him it's all or nothing
So I couldn't do it not even on my life. So
I went to the festival restaurant that night. It was on my birthday january the 26 1985
And Barry knew that was I liked that restaurant. It was lovely restaurant. No name on the door
In Miami. Yeah, and carl gables
so
I went in and him and his wife came in
Debbie she was looking real pretty and Barry was and we had dessert together and I just told him Barry. I just
Just can't do it. I said they're gonna kill you friend. He said, oh, no
I hugged his neck. No, who are you telling him was gonna kill him?
The club is gonna kill me. Sure. They're gonna certainly they're gonna kill him. Of course they're gonna kill him
If he testifies against all you're just gonna die, man. You ain't got no choice, right?
And you can go now, but you guys are ruthless because no matter where you are, they'll find you, right?
It's almost anybody you tell like that most of these people kill you
You're you're destroying their lives and their families and children and all that sort of stuff
And you did it and you did it with your eyes wide open and you made a deal. You just
You just can't tell
So most people don't live by that honor and so a lot of them get killed
And uh
So anyhow, I hugged his neck. I may have kissed him anyhow
I marina and the children fled to brazil and the next day or what? Oh, yeah
Right away. I think went back to the house and got some things and we were gone
and uh, so we're living in brazil and
I got word I was up in somewhere in brazil and I was calling the columbian
They owe me a bunch of money. They owe me three and a half million dollars
So I was trying to collect some of that and as long as barry was alive and this thing was going they was gonna pay me
But when barry died, oh have good news. Good news. They killed barry seal last night
Or yesterday or sometime and I cried and I told maria and the daughter cried. So anyway, how long after this?
How long after you moved to columbia? Do they tell you this six months six months after you?
I'm sorry after you moved to brazil. I think that it was
January of 26 of 1985 that I was would vary
Yes at the restaurant. Yeah, and then I think he was killed july of 86 just there about
About six months later. He was killed. Wow. So now they have no case against me
See he was the only thing they had against me and
On the first loop that I flew. So how so what is
How did he died? You know exactly how he died? I mean, I know there's the story
I mean, what what is that the official story of how he died?
Well, of course, he was assassinated by a gun
Yeah, they're still three. I'm still in live and doing life in lusiana prison
Uh, the guys like renaldo was a trigger man. I know him quite well
I'll tell you a little story about renaldo on the first load. I did for somebody. I don't know where it was
I think it was this guy. Hi me
This guy's just a hit man
And ugly fella anyhow landed at a banana plantation there somewhere in
jungle
and
Had a turbo prop and it was a small wheels a large wheel well
And they put 300 kilos of cocaine in there and this guy got in with me with a mac 10 shot
Pistol and he's to make sure I go to lusiana
I could have went to argentina. He wouldn't know which way it was
So anyway, uh, we took off and the wheels
It was muddy and the wheel wheels filled up with mud and the wheel and the and the gear wouldn't come up
So here I am doing 200 miles an hour set of 300. I'm not going to get home
2,500 miles. I'm just not going to make it
so
And uh, beliefs where I used to land and refuel
Hot planes with marijuana really nice fellow mr. Carter there
For $10,000 I could stop and refuel
So I told this fellow we got to stop no no no lusiana and he put the gun right to my head and mac 10
I said well shoot me fool. You're gonna die too. You know, I wasn't worried about it
So we landed this cattle farm and uh police and uh, oh, he was a terrible beside himself
He didn't know where he was
But uh, anyway
The mr. Carter sent a boy out to wash the plane clean the wheel wheels out
We went and had chicken and potatoes stew and he was all happy with it and we flew on we flew on up to lusiana
Wow, that's when he met Barry. So he's the guy that actually shot and killed Barry
Okay, so his name was renaldo
Wow
Now what is it? What's the story with with how bush was involved with barry?
I don't know anything about that barry has two pictures
of george and
jib bush walking away from his plane in opalaka airport where they just bought two kilos of cocaine
That's all what he said
That's what barry said and they got a package
And he snapped their picture as they go away from the plane. So I don't know and I think that's been on the internet some too
Is it possible that the um, I mean, isn't it true that the american government?
Or the cia or the de whoever it was the dea
Made it extremely easy for the columbians to kill him and to find him
to barry. Yeah
I don't know. I don't think so. I think that they was yeah. Well, I tell you I don't know who did it but
Uh, do you do you think that they wanted him dead? Do you think the u.s. Government wanted him dead the dea and not particularly?
I think that I think that the police in lusiana wanted him dead the dea in that area right where they've been chasing me
Just say
You guys ain't got sense enough to catch me or i'm not doing anything today. He's gonna be burning that government gas up
You know, he just made him a little bit. Yeah, they wanted to go and take his picture
Make sure he was dead
But I don't think that he did anything to make people really hate him that bad
But anyway, he was flaunting it in front of him, right and uh
And the judge is the one now who who influenced the judge the judge killed him
Because he has already testified against all these columbians and the judge gives him six months
Uh in a halfway house every night at six o'clock. He's got to come in
So the judge said him so that's his death sentence that death sentence 100 percent and they he's attached to that fucking halfway house
And they're definitely gonna find him there
He got to go every night at six o'clock and the dea stood up in court and said your honor
This is a death sentence. They will kill him. He said he should have thought of that before he did this
Wow, and he said what he going to have a bodyguards. No a guy in prisoner can't have bodyguards
Can't have arms. He can't have nothing that he got to drive right up into that
Halfway house every night at six o'clock and they was waiting on him just riddled him
You see the pictures on the internet. He just they said he put his hand over his ears
He shot him like 50 times in that in the car when he came
It was sad. How did you feel? Where were you? What were you doing?
You remember what the moment when they came to tell you? Oh, we got great news barry. I call mario in columbia
And that's when he told me. Oh great news great news. They kill barry seal. You know, well, I cried
I went to mari and miriam. They cried. He was our friend even though he had he testified
He put me in there's he did the best he could
They the cia had left him holding the bag
100% they set him up and whenever all that oliver north stuff come about arms for
cocaine and an iran contra deal
They just they just split
Everything was in his name everything. He was a one. What's he gonna do?
His own people. See he was a cia man. Did you know that?
Barry was with the cia
Prior to all this prior to the airlines right and he had over a thousand parachute jumps and he was george bush's
Real good friend. Oh the old man. He was his protege
And when he died
George bush's personal phone number was in his wallet and the lawyer called
And he said hey barry. How you doing old buddy? And he said they just killed barry last night and a click
And he hung right up and right up. Yeah
Jesus christ, man
Wow, what a fucking story. I'm glad to be out. I thought one time I'd never get out of prison
So you're in when you got the phone call about barry. Where were you in brazil?
Yeah, I was in brazil
And what what was your next move after all this? What were you thinking?
Where were you in your life at this point? What did you want to do next like what?
Did you have any sort of plan from you guys wanted to just like to stay in brazil?
And just lay low there for the rest of your life. Well me and marie had different plans. Okay
I kind of like brazil. I would not like it
It was opportunity for me to go into into the interior and grow soybeans. I'm a farmer
And I I mean the land was six dollars an acre and it was just like
Easy to clean all you got you don't know fertilize nothing just plant the seeds right need combines
So I took marie out to see her 30,000. Let's see 30,000 hectares is 75,000 acres
and
She just cried said roger if I die in this godforsaken country, please don't leave my bones here
So I just felt sorry if I didn't matter to me where I had a lot of money and just go where I wanted to
so
And was all was all your money in cash or did you keep it in bank accounts or what?
You obviously had you had tens of millions of dollars, right? Yes, but uh, I
I I invested it with crooks
With crooks everybody's just about to crook if you give them your money
Yeah, that's that's that's it just don't come back
I don't know that's the way it works no matter what business you're in exactly just you let somebody else hold your money
And it's gone. Yeah, so I I invested with a lot of people in huge real estate deals
and
One thing I did buy I bought the world's most expensive coin
It called a brasser de bloom
Really? Yeah, I paid 350 thousand dollars for it
And marie needs some money
So she sold it for 750 and the guy turned around the next day and sold it for a million four
And it's worth 10 million dollars now. What it was a coin a coin
How do you say it brasser de bloom brasser de bloom?
I'd love to get a picture of this on the screen
A de bloom is the pieces of eight you've heard of those. Oh, yeah. Well, that's an eighth of a de bloom
Is this it right here?
Oh, yeah, that's it right there. There you go. There's five of them
I had the the unique one
There they are
I don't know that that's it that know that don't look like it
No, I haven't seen it. It's got a wheelbarrow on one side and
Look up brasser de bloom. Yeah, that's what he typed in. Okay. Well, that's what it would be then
So that thing is worth over 10 million dollars now at today. Yes, and you paid 300,000 for it 350 to be exact in it
in a little story to go with that they uh
It was in I can't pronounce it but the the coin newspaper need new mystic
A paper and uh the bank of miami read about it. So they went to sam the coin dealer and says
It says mystery buyers but buys most expensive coin on earth, you know
Really?
So that was just one thing that brought a little light to me. So I uh
They said
We would give you a million dollar insurance policy against it if you were on it for us to put in our bank
So they built a pedestal in the bank of miami an old marble down there and they put that coin in it with lights on it
And they give me the the uh insurance policy sam did so if anything happened to it you get a million bucks
Maybe well, I had that in a lockbox in grand cayman island and guess what it was on the judge's desk
Oh my god
Oh
They was
Unmerciful did you have bank accounts set up in cayman islands? Oh, yeah, really?
Yeah, and it's got that money got stolen too the guys out in bakersfield live in large
Who the banker he took the money out of the bank and just closed the bank down
Now you live when I got arrested now. He's out in bakersfield and if I even say boo to him. I'll go to prison for
Extortion or something wow
So after he finds out you're in prison. He just says fucking i'm taking his money. He just shut the bank down and took my money
That is wild that is just that is just wild his name is
steven
What's his name?
Mac taggart you guys remember his name
I called him how much money did he steal from you? Oh, I'm not saying
You don't want to say oh
Three and a half million dollars at that time. Okay
Good lord
good lord, so
Mari doesn't want to be in brazil anymore
But you guys are still in brazil you guys so we went down and we went all the way to the tip of argentina right down to the
Right to the bottom of almost to the straits and
Use wire and then we we visited argentina and looked at all the glaciers and the ranches and things and
We just couldn't find it
So we got first class tickets to hamster down mari where she's from and her eye was just sparkling
She got on that plane with the dutch people and speaking her language
And we went to holland and they went lived in france for a year and they went down to mayorka spain
Oh, mayorka. That's a hot spot where I met mr. Howard marks
The uh author of mr. York is the big island, right? Yes, it's not very big, but it's an island. It's like you take a ferry there
Yeah, right
And so I met Howard marks
The infamous Howard marks who was Howard marks. He wrote mr. Nice
A famous book one of the first ones about marijuana smuggling ever come out. Oh really? Yeah, he was uh
He was sleazy
What do you mean by the sleazy? Oh, we did some deals and and whenever he knew he was his time was up
He hired me to haul a load out of morocco for two million dollars and he turned me in instead of paying me. Wow
Bastard
Nice word for him and I was and I escaped from police three times and I still couldn't believe he did it to me
I couldn't believe it
So you were in spain. You're still doing deals. You're still running shit and I was I bought a ship
I was hauling hashish
On a ship now you're you giving up the planes and you're you're taking ship taking ship ship
Hold a 20 ton loads out of pakistan and 20 ton loads out of thailand
How how did you get where did pakistan come into the picture here? We just buy hashish there
You go over there and camels and rides the camels around with the fillers up towards afghanistan
So this guy this guy said hey, we got hashish in pakistan. We can do if you move it
We can do it. So we did and he had all these connections. He had connections. Okay, the real nice fellow
They all did now, but anyhow, it was a good fellow. So you bought a ship and you sailed to pakistan
What was that like nothing nothing just nothing
You know, was the well, you know the experience wasn't anything not particularly
It was in malton a taxi drivers
The they had some guys from north africa that that killed the taxi drivers
And they galloped their eyes out and reached in there to get the little bullet out
And and throwed them in behind the ship and they came up all around the the taxi drivers did around the
Turn of the ship. That was the most exciting thing would have all those policemen all over me
cheese
20 tons of hashish from pakistan to where?
To canada to canada
How long did that take?
I don't remember. I really don't more than a couple days. Oh
Six weeks something like that. I reckon six weeks
I didn't do that part of the trip
But I met the trip with a float plane and then I flew the so you didn't stay on the ship the whole way
No, I took it over there. Okay, and then I uh
Uh, I bought a sesna 206 on float catch catch them and on floats. I love the way you say it
It's basically it just means you get landed on this on the ocean, right?
Yeah on the water and you could taxi out to the side of the ship
No, we they unloaded it and piled it up and then I hauled it down across the San Juan Fugus Straits
Between Canada and the United States and I landed on the lake in Washington state
And I hauled load after load and that's naughty weather
You couldn't see nothing. Just pull the power coming and land on the lake and hope you didn't hit nothing
cheese
That's insane, man. That's just so box such a crazy story. Just like it's amazing that you're sitting here alive right now
After all that you've been through like it's just like
Yeah, I almost got killed on the first load of that
Uh, I cross the uh, it was a moonlight night full moon and I'd been to that lake lake old set
I believe is how it's pronounced in Washington Washington state just over on the
In the olympic mountains just on the coast. It's a pretty big lake got some islands in there
It's got a radio station at the end of the lake and you can make your approach right over that radio station and land on the lake
And uh, so I'm coming and I think oh, I'm a little early. I must have a tail wind
It's clear
And I see the lake and I see a white line white sand around it. I didn't remember a beach on the lake
But okay, it's nice to be nice. So I pull the power to land
And I get right down almost to land and I see that it's not a lake
It's a burnt over area where it's been clear cut and been set on fire and it's black like the lake
And I see stag sticking up 10 15 feet high everywhere and I'm down in them
And I just pull the power and just go out to the jaws of death just trying to pull that thing straight back out of there
What I didn't realize is that what I thought was a beach was a logging road going around this cut over area
Oh my god, so you can just sometimes your mind can just fool you something terrible
How much are you making when you're starting to run this stuff from pakistan up to
We didn't make much. I I don't remember how much we paid for but we should have made a lot
But it had too much yak fat in it and it wouldn't stay lit and I think we find too much
Why yak fat they take the fat they take the fat from the yak and take the marijuana
um the glue of the
uh
the
the juice from the marijuana and
And and rub it with their hands like this till it gets hot and they make hashish
And if they put the yak fat in it to make it stick together and if you put too much on it won't stay lit on their cigarette
So it just brought the price way down. So just wasn't that it's what no no more cocaine deals once you went over to europe
No, I stayed away from that. Okay
Uh
So yeah, I did I did another I did a load of cocaine to australia the biggest ever in the history of australia
I got caught with 400 million dollars worth down there. When was this after you moved to europe? Yeah
How did this how did this deal come about and who who are you doing business with it? Was it the same guy that you met in mayorka?
No, we don't we don't split now. He's done. He doesn't rip me off real bad. I got to prison. I escaped from the uh, I
They arrested me in spain. I I escaped three times
In the third time they put me in jail there in mayorka
And oh you were in jail in mayorka. Well, and so it was prison in mayorka and so
I was they took me to court for extradition. I had double extradition
Germany's asking for my extradition for this hashish
I hired a guy to haul the load
And the united states is asking because I owe them 25 years special parole
And they're asking for that and they say that they got me from moving
Several million dollars with the gold coins that they said they could have
Before money laundering they said he moved these gold coins at the united states government would have seized had they named it
Known they belonged to reeves. That was the indictment
Wow cared five years and I got five years for but uh
Germany wanted me because so they just made up some bullshit
Oh, just it's anything to get you to extradite me. So now because now barry was gone
They really had nothing else on you. So they just made something up
So, uh
I paid the the german captain of my ship 400 000 dollars to haul a load of hashish and he
bought me bought him a long cigar and a long
bmw and
The police arrested him they found the money and they said if you'll tell us who it is you'll be home by christmas
But they didn't tell him which christmas you got seven years up in germany
So now they've arrested me in spain after I got away from so much
They handcuffed me this way like over my hands this way
Everywhere I go and it's very painful if you left that way overnight
Oh, yeah, I could imagine you can't get out on that way. So
Let me see. So anyway, they take me to court
And marry's there and my son and I there for the extradition hearing
And I have four guards guarding me all my paperwork says use maximum restraints
So because you had already escaped so and they got my
history from uh interpol
so
I'm sitting and I talked to the lawyer. I says I wonder I'm above the palm trees high high as this place
I'm on the third floor
And he said you were cute yourself and I said I'm dead anyway. I've got
This thing three and a half tons of hashish charging germany and
25 years parole in america plus the coins
Right
So I bound across when two of them leave to go smoke
I bound across the room and jumped up on the desk of the sonographer
Which is nine months pregnant and I kicked the window out of the court room and I jumped up on the ledge. I'm handcuffed
Like not like this. No, I'm in front of you're in front of you in court
and uh
So I look down and it's an awful awful long way
I thought there might be some power lines or telephone lines
I could grab on the way down and break it but they wasn't and there was a car parked a little bit up on it
It looked like it was a station wagon
And I'd worked on the Los Angeles fire department practice jumping in the net from four floors
So I bailed out and hit the top of that car
Wham
And the roof what was the what was your strategy when you were falling from the I hit right on my heels in my butt
Right in and the roof caved in saved my life
But it went down and destroyed that car
And the and the uh like in a sitting position you landed. Yeah, okay, but more on my feet
And okay, and I still have a dead spot in my back from that jump
It gets hot if I get upside or something. I have to get it off
so uh
I uh, I mean it was like
Donald duck I jumped out of that car and ran anyhow the next day the newspaper said spider-man escapes
Anyhow they called me and I they asked an item to Germany
And Germany gave me eight years for using a german citizen in an international crime
They didn't have any hash issue nothing, but because I'd hired a german citizen and he told
If he'd kept his mouth shut, there'd been nothing
So I got eight years up there
So you let so you spent the next eight years of your life in germany?
No after one year I escaped from lubeck maximum security prison. What I don't think anybody's ever escaped
So I went out through the bars and got all cut up real bad and hurt and
And lost my clothes and got my shoes and
So this wasn't this wasn't some sort of like tunneling escape or anything
Oh, no
I cut through the went through the bars and went and went up got on the roof and went above the guard towers
Then I jumped down on one guard tower by the sallyport and bailed over the fence into a pile of dirt
Of a sand pile and got away
And a woman was there I watched her and it was raining real hard and I'd lost my clothes most of them
and I had my blue jeans on
and
I watched her and a little boy come
And she brought her husband to the door and when she went back
I jumped on top of the the guard tower, which was one floor below me and the guy went. Hey
It was a tin roof
And they're trained to kill you
I mean they got the same the moves out there and then I went across and I went straight towards her
So he couldn't shoot me and then I went around behind the cars and was running downhill. I mean striding
And here her bam, bam, bam. She's up on the sidewalk knocking the
parking meters over
Trying to kill me
And I jumped behind some car and she just yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah at me and the little boy standing in the seat
She tore the fender off of her car
On another car trying to get me really I jumped over a fence and it cut my hands all up
They had glass on top of it and I had shoes on with 200 dollars that maria had slipped me in the prison
And my shoes went down. I went off with half my knees in the mud and the blood and cut my chest all up
Oh man, and I so I took off running and lost my shoes my 200 dollars now
I'm barefooted and just having a pair of blue jeans no top on and I get away and get to holland
And you got to holland you crossed the border across the border. I had a heck of a time at one point
Did you meet up with marie?
I didn't she was mad with me told me to go back
Oh
Ouch
Why was she mad because you escaped you destroyed my life. What do you mean?
Oh my gosh, at least gonna be here anytime. I can't get the papers out of the house. What do I do with them?
Right bury them under a rock. I don't care go
so
I think she was about she was tired of it at that time
How old were you at this point when you escaped that prison in germany?
It was 1990. So I was uh 47 years old
47 years old wow
And what did you do when you got to holland?
I
I met up with marie's cousin and she had buried a hundred thousand dollars
For me on the on the place there in case I did get out
And she told me you go to the linden took the linden tree
You go to the haystack and you go to the linden tree and you turn right and you go 10 steps
But she didn't tell me there's 20 linden trees
We have we had fun so they were messing with you, huh? No. No. I mean marie just
It's just remembered how she got to where she buried it. So I got an iron rod and just I finally found it
Okay, got some money and then I got me some clothes. I stayed there for a while and got a passport and I went back to south america
And then I went back to see the columbians and the people that I knew and uh stayed there for a while
And uh, then I got a job to take a boat
To australia with a ton of cocaine on it
So I took a boat down there and I got caught took a boat from from columbia
No, I took I bought the boat in homo lusiana and I took it to australia from there. What kind of boat was it?
It was a oil supply vessel one that goes out to the oil wells
And when they get old they can't get insurance on them. So they sold it scrap
But that's when you could eat off the engine room floor. Oh really a museum piece. How long how big was it?
How long was like a hundred footer a hundred footer? Yeah
And how did you um, where did the cocaine come from?
It came they loaded me in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean just above the equator. Oh, really?
A tuna boat came out of an old wooden tuna boat and came to me in rough weather and
Thowed it over just they threw it over this threw it over the deck
They swarmed over and stole everything they could they wanted my food my extra fuel. Oh, really? Oh
There's a bunch of
Savages
Jesus and who how many people how many people are on your crew on that ship?
Three of us the three of you read me by myself really
I had my brother-in-law with me and the columbian that got on in both of them
Was he sick and couldn't stand up and didn't know how to do anything. Yeah, I had to cook and wash the dishes
Oh my gosh, and how long so?
tell me talked to me tell me about this trip from
from
The Caribbean where they loaded up your ship
to Australia
What was that like? Well, that was that was interesting
I uh
I left home a Louisiana. I never never run the ship before. I mean it was a learning curve for me
and somebody left the water on down in
One of the bathrooms. We only had 600 gallons of fresh water because we'd change it all to fuel
So we ran out of water before we got to Key West. So I had to go into Key West and get water
And then I took off and went across the tongue of the ocean through the Bahamas and I went to
Senegal what's the islands off of the the anyhow some island 600 miles off of Senegal and uh
I can't think of the name of them right now. Anyhow stayed there a week the columbians told me they had loaded me there
Like a Barbados. No. No, this is this is uh
Canary
What canary no south of the canary is about a thousand miles
I can't think of it. I know it as good as my own name. I know the prayer is the name of the town
Oh, it's anyhow at Senegal. Okay, and uh
So I stayed there and then the columbians said no come back towards columbia a thousand miles
Now what?
Because I just got enough money just to fuel just barely to make it to australia
I have to go back a thousand miles and then they're not there and I have to go three or four days
cruising around up and down below the radar of the other satellites
and finally they show up and throw the stuff on and uh
Then I go down and I go follow the center of the Atlantic ocean down
Because the current goes counterclockwise in the southern oceans clockwise in the northern oceans
And I went far south of Cape Town and went down
um
Went down about 50 degrees in the great southern ocean near Antarctica and I came with it and uh
I woke up one morning and the waves was I fished in Alaska. You remember and yeah, these waves was just
Indescribably tall. It wasn't rough, but they were just mountains
Giant swells just swells and they were sharp
I mean almost straight up and down and the boat would come and it would just come up and it would stop and go
And then the propellers would come out of the water and it'd be a curl surf down it
And then surf down it and the nose would stick in the ground under water they'd come back over
Well, I was real uncomfortable
So I spoke to go under towards Melbourne. So I I got out of it and I turned north
North to get out of that sharp latitude and I went unloaded uh
I went unloaded up about the middle of the west australian coast
And the real desert area and was arrested there
But I um I have visions
In two weeks before I was arrested. I had a crystal clear vision of me being arrested how it was and my feelings. I uh
I was they was on my back with the hands and putting a handcuffs on me
And I was in the sand with it down there and I was crying and I was just laying poor poor poor marie
I knew our life was over together
And it happened exactly like I saw it in that vision
So I turned my ship from it went 500 miles from where I went boat to go
But the snitch was waiting on me. So I didn't have any choice. Who was the snitch?
The guy named edward over the uh the owner's brother
Uh friend and he had been working with him from the day one. So they knew all we were coming from before we left
So your vision of this all this happening everything all apart came came to fruition. Yes
So what happened after they arrested you? Oh, they put us in a
Bulletproof vans one of those things like armored trucks and took us to prison. Wow
And how many and you ended up obviously so you didn't escape that prison, right? You stayed no no
I didn't I uh, I could have one time and marie wouldn't send the little money needed
Have some help marra was pissed at you. She ain't gonna help me get out
Were you were you guys in communication at all? Did you guys communicate?
Every day australia prisons are so much nicer than american prisons. Really? Oh, they give you a long time and it's hard
But they treat you
good
The food's good. The officers seem to go to school to have a little more
Intelligence than just the scumbags that they have the officers are way different in there. Oh, yeah
I feel like I've always I've always thought with all the people that I've talked to that
I've been in and out of prison and especially on this podcast
Is that the people that end up in the united states that end up being prison guards are like the people who couldn't even make it as cops
They couldn't make it as
security guards
They are so the lowest life scum on the face of the and it seems like the people that are the security guards are prison guards in
this country they're they are
Not people that are there because that's what they wanted to be
It's because they failed at something else and they just they got a job and they got a badge
And they got authority and they just right right you woke up. Well, you get talked ugly too. They kill people in there
They hurt you
And the prison guards in australia was it like they were they were paid better. They were educated more they actually
All of that was there like more of like a a sense of like a mission to get something done there like we got a
Oh, it wasn't good, but it was just not it wasn't such hatred as these foods here have for you
It just didn't really ring for it. Oh, you had some nasty ones once in a while
Right, they'd be like
One out of 20 or 30 might be nasty. Hmm. Okay, but here you get every other one. It's nasty
Right good 50 of them. There's some nice ones here too, but it's rare
So how many years did you stay in that prison in australia 18 years 18 years
And it was the most maximum security prison that there is in that country
Most most secure prison in the southern hemisphere the most secure prison in the southern hemisphere is known as yes
Wow
And what was your experience like there for 18 years?
Oh
When I first went in
I've been in a week or two and when they've got my paperwork that I escaped from five different prisons
They came and arrested me right where I was having supper and they took me to to that prison. I was in the hakiah prison
They took me to uh, kazzarina prison
And they put me in a shoe
And I was in there for over a year
And uh, and that's the shoe is basically just an isolated box just by yourself
Well, there was five of us in this. Okay, and it was uh, we had room for 12 prisoners in there
And they had uh, it was like kind of like the silence of the lambs
That was a big cage. And they had uh six guards on the other side looking at you through a one-way mirror
And they come in the morning with all of my
Big clubs and they opened the door and they brought food in we cooked it ourselves
And then they come in at six o'clock and locked our doors and that was it
That's all we had in them. You had a little you could talk to them through a through a speaker
And that was all it wasn't bad. But it was just like how long am I going to be in here?
and that's when I had the uh
I wondered okay, I've got 25 years in America and I escaped from the german prison. I've done this got life here
I might never see my children and my grandchildren. They might ever know me
I believe I'll write about when I my grandma bought me the little horse
And they had a computer room in there. So you were you were there for life. You thought you were there for life
I was hoping I'd get out. I certainly behaved myself. I had to go 18 years before I could ask for parole
so
Um
I'd write it down. Okay. I when I got to mexican pinto and I'm gonna write that story tomorrow
So they had the little computer room there
And I didn't know how to turn the thing on
And it had a thing called a paintbrush. You didn't have a program on it
So I could type so I could type one line
And then the next day I think about when my daddy was robbed in chattanooga and I'll write that little story
And then I got where I'd write two or three on my day
And then the end of about three or four months. I had over a million words written in one line
Wow, so when I got out of the shoe, they gave it to me on on disk and I went and
Uh, I got out and they they let me buy a computer. They let me let you buy a computer. Oh really?
Yeah, they wouldn't hooked up anything but you could
Do all the
You go put a lot of programs on it like encyclopedias and like a laptop or something. No, it was a full-on computer
And where did you keep it in your in your cell?
Really had a cell with a door and a lock to it and
Yeah, oh wow. It was pretty nice. They know why about it now compared to america. It's quiet and
No internet though. No, okay, nothing like that
But you had telephones and it wasn't expensive. I call them hurry every day for 20 minutes
So anyway, I do it that thing out and it took me two years to straighten out what all I had written
So what it was all different colors where I'd misspelled and I just put what my thoughts were
So you went through and edited it and revised it. I had to write it really because I was just writing my thoughts as fast as I could
Right. Just put them so that's how I did it. So I took it out and I I got uh, uh, I
Took two-thirds of it out. So there's only 520 pages. They'd have been 1500 pages if I'd put it all in there
Wow
And you haven't published into a book now, which is called what's it called?
Smuggler the smuggler. They're just smuggler. Just smuggler. No smuggler. Roger Reeves a memoir a memoir
it's on the
amazon best-selling list and
uh,
so
Done good. I enjoyed it. It's a it's a it's a fascinating and you have the audio going to be done soon
It's already done. I'm just waiting for amazon approval. Yeah, right, right? Yeah
So, what did you take away from from all of this from this crazy
Amazing life that you've had and after after all the time
Well, well, actually, let's go back because you were you were in
Australian prison for 18 years, but once you got out of prison there you went to another prison, right?
Horrible. I was treated something terrible when I there was three marshal three
Australian marshals with me. I come back handcuffed because there's a warrant from the United States from parole from 1977
43 years ago for possession of marijuana
I got off the airplane laughing and chatting with the Australian
guards
I was slammed upside the wall
by border patrolty
Eyes forward eyes forward kicking my legs apart putting handcuffs on me so hard to cut the blood off leg irons
irons for
And they want me about a hundred yards. Turn me over to the marshals
The marshals took some of the leg irons and stuff off
Chained me to the wall and left me there all day and then they took me to the Metropolitan Detention Center on conair
No, I was just they in a van. There was Los Angeles. They took me to Metropolitan Detention Center in Los Angeles
And put me into isolation
I said what in the world am I in isolation for to nothing and
I was there three or four days and I talked to the lieutenant when he'd come by the morning. He said nothing I can do for you reeves
So there's a guy came there and he was in a suit and I just looking for you opened it up. He said hello reeves
I just want to see what you look like
my name is
Associates warden short
And I saw your national geographic documentary me and it does me pleasure to keep you in isolation
And he shut the little Judas window and that's the last I saw I never could get out of there
So I stayed in nine months without a hearing
Which the pro board has to give you one within three months. They never did give me one
I paid the lawyer $7,500
His name was uh kennon
up in san francisco
He never once made a phone call never somebody got to him
What was his name body?
christopher kennon christopher
Christopher kennon the lawyer in san francisco that the pro board said don't touch it
And he stole my $7,500 and never made one phone call that bastard. I mean thoroughbred thoroughbred. Yeah, wow
So what was the documentary he was talking about? National geographic come down to australia and they did one only called australia's hardest prison
And they did one uh, I got some some action in that one because I was looking for that online
I couldn't find I saw something on that on a history channel. They take it off
After a while, I understand the national geographic doesn't and they put it back on it was real big at one time. Okay
Yeah, I remember searching for it and I couldn't find it. I got a copy of it. Okay, I got several copies of it
So how long did you end up staying in los angeles metropolitan? They sent me to um
They sent me on con air to uh,
oklahoma
And there I got put on the shelf floor, but I had to report to the officer every two hours or there's gonna go back into shoe
So
I couldn't believe it and uh
I just saw the corruption of the con air and whoever whatever congressman the senator on sat
I met. Oh, yeah, I explained that that's I met people from wake rolls, george. Uh all many george or jacksville, florida and uh
They got caught with two grams or something
Three grams five grams
They're facing five years and they mentally probably a little problems with mental a lot of prisoners do
And uh, they were being sent to los angeles
for psychiatric evaluation
And it takes about three months to go and a month or two to come back
And they stay in oklahoma and they go from one place to another on con air until they finally get to some doctor in los angeles
It says that they have a problem or not and then I met the ones from los angeles in san francisco
And they were going to atlanta georgia to have psychiatric evaluation
So no matter where you got busted for these small-time drug offenses, they would find a psychic or a psychiatric
Uh
Psychologist on the opposite end of the country so they could shuffle you back and forth
So they had a reason to fly con air all around the country. It's just blatant ripping off off the government
That's as bad as I've ever seen who owns con air is con air. Thank you better ask
I might be back in prison
That's interesting
Who can you find out maybe on google like who owns con air? You would think that would just be part of the blp, right?
No, it's it's somebody owns it other blp wouldn't be doing that. How many how many
Airplanes do they have this con is on the con does I saw three big jets
There's three jets much and then they got a lot of that's all I know
But that that tower in in uh, oklahoma, which is center is got 1800 rooms
And those planes are landing and coming in there day and night
It's just like grand central station of federal prisoners. Wow. Are they moving them like that? I don't know
Somebody's making big big money
Whoa, that is kind of wild. I had no idea about that. Yeah
He's trying to inch it over
You just double click the top. Yeah
It probably tell you the truth
Fleet size 59 parent company con air group ink headquarters
Abbotsford british columbia canada
They have 59 planes con air group ink. So it's a corporation
Yep
Whoa, they own some politicians. I guarantee you. Oh, yeah
They're uh
Wow, man. Wow, that's
What a world we live in roger
World we live in I'm telling you that is incredible incredibly corrupt. Yes, the whole system is yeah
Let me just tell you about the drug war
Today, I'm not talking about but done
A policeman gets a job here in any town
He's a 10 or 15. I'm going this year
And one of them he's a go-getter
And he lets his hair grow and he gets some tattoos and some dirty clothes
And he goes under the bridge and he gets one of those poor mental
mainly ill people
bombs
Hobos and they sell two or three or five grams to their neighbor over there and he arrests both of them
federally
Now he's got two and next month he does it and he's got two more and the end of the year
He's got 15 or 20 major drug bust
And he does that for two or three years
and uh
The other fellow he's he's at a desk somewhere and this guy makes captain
This guy's a captain the guy at the desk one no the one that the one that makes all these little tiny bust
All these insignificant nothing. He's just putting poor people in prison. Right now. He's captain now. He's lieutenant now
He's captain now. He's he goes up the ladder
Rocket
Now the prosecutor the one that can say I got him I got him
He has two grams of methamphetamine two grams of ladies and gentlemen of the jury
He has five give him five years in prison no matter about his poor wife and children crying give him put him in prison
We need we need fodder for this for these private prisons and for the federal system
Oh boy, we got him and if I'm a prosecutor and I get enough convictions. I got a 98% conviction rate
I'm gonna make judge and I'll never lose my job at $500,000 a year
It's all about climbing the ladder this time the ladder and make him money
Wow, yeah, that's exactly how it works that judicial system is just so so corrupt. Are you familiar with the story of um
Uh ross albricht
No
He's uh, uh, he was a kid. He was in his early 30s when he got busted and he got like two
life sentences for uh, he started this website. It's like a
It was it's called silk road. It was basically like this dark web
Place where people can go buy any kind of drugs they want
So it's like an online marketplace for people to buy anything they want
As long as it didn't like their only rules were you can't harm people or you can't like you can't order people to get murdered
Or you can't there's no human trafficking allowed, but it was mainly used for drugs
so you could buy any kind of drugs that you wanted online and it was
Kept anonymous like each all the buyers and sellers were protected because they used this form of currency called bitcoin
Which is a cryptocurrency and it's it's easily you can easily keep the
people making the transactions anonymous and he was just
Created a website basically that anyone could go on there and make a transaction and he took a small fee
And he ended up getting two life sentences
Because he didn't take the deal. They obviously offered him a really big
A really big plea deal and he didn't take because they thought he could beat it
And there was a bunch of corrupt corrupt agents involved in his case and the kid got the kid got
Basically, he got double the sentence
that El Chapo got
And he was just some 20 year old kid that made a website an e-commerce website
That's I mean that story really hit home for me
As far as exposing like the real issues of the just judicial system in this country and they made a documentary about it and
It's just disgusting. It's it's disgusting vomiting sick on the floor
I mean here. I am I served 33 years mostly for marijuana
And I woke out big billboards
Relax. We deliver your marijuana to your house
It's just like in the prohibition
This guy's got 12 years in Alcatraz for making whiskey. They went when they got out
And the law was passed the next year. Yes, but you broke the law then
So you got to stay and after 12 years they walk out of Alcatraz and walk across the street and get them a drink out of the bar
Right. That's the same thing's happening. It's insane, man. It's stupid. I mean president Jimmy Carter had it all
Most of the prison a great portion of the prison is from mentally
Incapacitated or people that are are somewhat have some problems. They had problems from probably their early childhood
They were unwanted unloved orphanage
foster home
beaten abused
Men and women and they come to prisons and they treat other people that way. We need help for these people. It's a health issue
It's a social issue. It's an issue that society owes to the people that we have here
Is there any country that's doing it right?
Like obviously we're doing it worse than anybody. We have more people locked up per capita than any other country in the world, right?
Is that
Is there anybody who who's doing this right the same thing we can take from another country and learn from them? I understand it
What's that?
Oh, holland holland. Absolutely. Holland's great at it and oh didn't holland legalize like a heroin or something
I don't know exactly what they where you can you can go
I heard that you that if you uh, if you're addicted to heroin or you want to if you want to use heroin
You can actually go to a doctor and they'll give you like a clean needle and they'll give you like a small yes
That's been a long time there
And uh, even birmingham england does it and they got proof. Listen the people clean up the prostitutes clean up the people get a job
But america goes into birmingham and says you can't do that. You can't set a precedent like this
We must have our prisons full
So they fight so hard the american
Judicial system the dea
They won't they want this stuff to go on. It's wrong. I mean it's wrong in the eyes of man and god
It's just wrong. They take these people and
Take them away from their children their
Families and they take their homes. I mean they work for forever the inherited from their grandmother
They just you better believe that they some money in it. They're there to get it
So it's just wrong
Do you think it'll ever change what would what do you think there's a of course it's going to change
It can't be this already swung hard the other way now
It's just god too
It's just
Ah, well, what's the answer like how like what kind of what sort of steps do you think it's it's gonna
We're gonna have to take to make this be a health issue if a guy's got a heroin addict. Let's just say heroin egg
They know right now that they this krat krat on
If they will take those tablets they have no withdrawal whatsoever
but the
federal drug administration
Kratom kratom. Yeah, they fight it hard. They don't want it. Right. It's just like the marijuana oil
All these pains they don't want it. They fight it hard and they pay their politicians
They got lobbyists walking the halls of congress
You get trips and you get money and you can do anything for you
We got big pharmaceutical companies that produce pills, but we got oxy cotton
We got what we got like it in you got to go get go to the doctor and get a prescription to some opiates
That's the answer. Yeah, not this unregulated stuff
Exactly. So they it but it's it's coming to light. It's slowly slowly slowly coming to light. This is this is wrong
It is it's it's it's terrifying and and then another thing is is parenting
I feel like parenting is is so important
And a lot of the people that end up in prisons a lot of people that end up in the streets homeless
addicted to drugs it seems like the
The catalyst the one thing the most the one common denominator across all these people is
Is messed up childhoods and and absolutely and parents that weren't prepared for children
my mantra is
that
A couple should have a permit before they have a baby
That might be mean but a little sparrow builds her a nest before she lays an egg
The problem is how the problem is you can't stop them from having babies though, right?
You can't stop them
But you you have to permit have to have a permit to ride a moped on the streets of America
Right how much more important is to bring a child into it my daughter who's a doctor
She delivered a baby to an 11 year old child your daughter delivered a baby from 11 year old child
Four generations in the waiting room all on welfare
Wow 12 14 youngins
That's the problem is
Even if you put in a law like that
People are still going to breed and people are still going to have babies
I don't say they wouldn't but i'm just saying that's the answer to it to educate people or to encourage people to
Have a mother and a father have a home have a living have a something you get babies
We won't
Instead of babies that we just going to get for the welfare check. That's awful to encourage the wrong people to have babies
It is you'd encourage the right people to have babies
I don't know the answers roger. I don't think we have them but anyhow, that's the question now now gets the answer
It is a question. It's a very hard question. Are you gonna stop this? It's a very dicey
It's a very dicey subject and it's it's
I don't know
I don't know what the answer is but yeah, I totally agree that having
You know having a child is definitely one of the most
important
Like serious decisions that you could possibly make. I mean you're you're creating another life
I mean that is going to set up depending on how you
raise
that
small
baby child
depending on
How conscientious you are how prepared you are how willing you are to be committed to doing that
I mean that's going to send that human being
Into a spiral one way or the other whether it be good or bad and
The effects the consequences
The repercussions of
Of it going wrong of it going the bad way
are exponential
so it's just
Yeah
I don't know the answers. It's it's it's a
Definitely a dicey topic because you can't take away people's human rights to reproduce
But at the same time, you know, I can you know, it's the logic is is obviously there
Like you can't just have people reproducing just because there's a financial gain or
Just for the hell of it, you know, let's have a kid and then you know, it's on its own
exactly
A um
I don't know what to say about it, but there is an answer. I know that if the government
Would take this as a health issue and part of it is being family planning
And spend a tenth of the money that they did on eradicating the marijuana from
The country right what a world we would live in right? It's all about money, right? It's all about money allocation and teach these children
Right education is huge, right? What was it? Victor Hugo says, you know, what in here's uh
Close the school open a prison
right
Yeah
Because
I mean, there's so many stories of people who
Who had abusive childhoods who had parents that that weren't there
They were neglected all their lives. You have you there's so many stories of like the biggest success stories
They're people that had messed up childhoods, right?
and
What it shouldn't be obviously it's rare it's rare not all kids that have messed up childhoods end up
end up successful
But if they had the access like if they I think it puts like if you're
if you come up
from an early stage in your life with
Lots of obstacles in your way and you and you over you're able to overcome a lot and you have to deal with this
You don't have an you have you've a very difficult life
It puts something in you. I think that it makes you hungry, right? So I think if
If
Those people are hungry and they have access
To get educated or to go learn or say hey, it's not going to cost me, you know
I have to go out and figure out a way to make a hundred dollars this week. Am I either going to spend my hundred dollars on
Food or drugs or am I going to spend my hundred dollars on getting an education?
They're obviously going to choose survival or education
So but if those kids had access to some sort of a free education
And we took care of people who didn't have money who actually wanted to learn and wanted to get better
That would be better for society, right? Because we would have in the country would have we would have less losers
We would have less people that are just that are just leaching off the system
Does that make sense it makes sense
But also you want to have people that are educated you don't want to have you that that's the goal like in our community as a country
Like you want to take care of we want to think of the country as one community
As as unfortunate as as it is we think of people as right and left democrat republican
Whatever we wanted so polarized we if we thought about it as one community and we want to educate our community to make it better
You want people to be you want people to have the access to the education to get better?
I'll tell you what for a son
Maybe a daughter too if they had a father to put their arm around them and send son
You should study this or you should do this
I encourage you to do that
That's needs that in in in addition to the choice
Where you're going to do that another you need good parents to make make recommendations
And also
You shouldn't put such high standards for college and that sort of stuff to everybody right they should put I mean
You know you know by seventh grade eighth grade where the child's going to be
Certain university material or not
Start them in trade school right and our our prison system should be only trade schools
Yeah, you get a young thief comes in there and the judge says are they giving them a rung said okay
You could be an electrician. We need electricians. We need plumbers. We need okay
Your sentence is to become an electrician
When you get a class a license to be electrician you walk out the door
You see them straighten up and stop taking the drugs and uh
And right and that way when they get out they actually have a pass you go to work 30 $50 an hour or whatever
And I mean it's not fair to the people out there, but if they do a crime
Well, I just set them there just in the cell right
You can have one teacher to 20 30 guys. Mm-hmm and when they pass the test and they can do it
Let them lose that's that's their sentence
And we'd have workers and the hardest thing also about about the whole the whole prison system is that
I've talked about this before but
Once you're once you're in the system
It's almost like even once you're out once you once you get released. It's almost like you have those shackles on you for life
because there's things like probation there's things like
Uh restitution, you know, you're always checking in there's only certain things you can do certain things you can't do
If you do accidentally slip up once bam, you're done
I had 30 years of that. They give me 25 years special parole
Anytime you violate it you can serve all apart and on top of that sir
I'm giving you 5 000 hours community service. You can do it shoveling horseshit in the zoo
And on top of that you're gonna pay all the cost of prosecution
And on top of that i'm giving you 30 years
For this five more years for that. It's just ridiculous
How what year did you get out?
I got last year last year you got out 14 months right now
Wow, man
Wow
I stayed in another nine months. It was harder than the 18 years in australia
In isolation here for parole violation from 1977 for possession of marijuana
That somebody was after me
They wouldn't let the lawyer talk and they wouldn't let me out of isolation
So what happened after you were in that nine months isolation in los angeles?
They let me out and I went home and I was a free man
No, I was on parole and I didn't know how long I'd be on parole
But you were at least you were able to go home my wife and uh and the covid was out and the
parole officers didn't come and so after a year they said
We dropped the parole you're free. I got my passport. I got my driver's license. I got my pilot's license
Wow
Ready to go wow man
What an incredible fascinating story
So he went back and got my pilot's pilot's license and went and went down and rented the plane for a day
Had a good time
So what's your goals now? What's uh, what's what's next for roger reeves? What's next on the in the uh, what's the next chapter for you?
I just don't know what's gonna. I'm gonna take it one day at the time
I'm just happy to be home with mario no more plain loaves of marijuana. No, that's that's over
They got over the horizon radar
Oh, that's incredible you and your wife, uh the bond that you guys were able to form and the the way you guys were able to stay together
For that long period of time even though you were gone for 30 33 years
Is this is so amazing. I never heard of it. I've never heard of it. I've never heard of that
I mean, it's rare you hear of that with people that don't didn't go to prison
Yeah, let alone did have to be isolated for 33 years. It's just on it's just unbelievable. She waited that long
What is the key? Well, what's the what's the what's the secret? Tell me the secret. Well, she just she's a christian person
She's lovely. I mean she's like too good for this earth. I said, what did you tell him? Are you a beautiful one?
She said I told him i'm not available
And said that worked
Yeah
So bless her heart
It waited on me all that time. I tell you when I came home
There was the same table a round oak table that I had sanded in and there was the same placemats that I had left 35 years ago
Last thing there was the same silverware in the same plates
I just sat there and cried
Just like oh just just it took me three days
I couldn't even look at pictures of her when she was 40 and when she was 50 and when she was 60
I wasn't there. Yeah, so how did it make you feel? Maybe feel sick
Still, I don't want like to look at the pictures and I was going that many years. I have for my life
I was in those prison cells. It just was
Oh, maybe I certainly I broke the law and my outlaw
But I'm not much of a criminal. I don't I don't hurt nobody. I'm I'm for good in this world
just uh
It's got caught up in this and did it. Yeah
And there were so many people like you too that got caught up in that in that part of history
You could you can pull up to almost any point in the world and you just say real and say
I'm gonna pay all of you a million dollars to hold this load of cocaine
We might get caught you could sink the ship with young men and women to get on it
So true man, it's so true
Well roger
I think uh, I think we did it. I think we covered
Pretty much everything. Is there anything that we missed that's uh important that we left out?
I can't thank you enough for coming down
A baby deer in alaska marie wants to bring up a baby deer. Oh
What happened with the baby deer in alaska? We can wrap it up with that story
Oh, that's just a whole another story in itself
We went to
Might not fit right in now. We it's okay. We can still tell it. All right. I'll tell you about the baby deer
Let's tell us what we're gonna wrap it up with the baby deer story. All right
marie and I went to alaska in 1972 and bought a salmon trawler. Mm-hmm
It was an old sailboat. It was a Bristol day
Gielnatter and somebody put a little gasoline engine in it. I think 38 feet
And we went salmon fishing with our little daughter at five years old
and uh
Oh, we catch those greats king salmon and put them in and the ice and
Uh, we come into god at hot springs and anchor the boat in the evening sometimes they go for the hot spring and shower
Oh, it was nice and
Sharks would cut the salmon in two on the way up sometimes and we'd hang the head up and get several stakes behind it
And then uh one day a little boy was crying on the radio that his
Boat was on fire that he's blown up. His daddy's legs was crooked and
Blood was coming out of his ears and help help help and so pretty soon the
Coast Guard was flying and I said what's strong where I was here
And uh, so they told us to be watching for
an overturned boat or float
Burned boat. Yeah, I had the little boys cries on on my mind all day and I was cleaning salmon back on the back
And I turned and looked and there was a bow of a boat coming up. I was almost to hit it
so I ran up out of the wheel or fish hole and
knocked the boat out of gear
and uh
Then I saw my mistake. It was not it was not an overturned boat. It was a giant blue whale that was surfacing under my boat
And he blew his stuff all over me. I could have gapped him from where I was
Hey thing was huge
Anyway
I had four cables out there six thousand pound test each and he wrapped himself in those things or they got around him
And he went down and that back of that boat went backwards faster like a cork going backwards faster
It never went forward. Geez. He took all the gear off and all the stuff just bent down my life boat and all that just splintered
So we was out of business
So we said let's take a vacation. So we did all of southeast, Alaska just putting from one place to the other
And uh, we'd go into some of these bays. It was just very seldom visited
And we were looking for glass balls the orinals used to have glass blowers on their boats
And they didn't have corks
So they put these glass balls some of them that big some of this big most of them about that big
And they would put floaters on the on the nets and in the storms and the rot and they lost a lot of them in the
The pacific ocean is 70 million square miles and those things are drifting round and round out there
And in the storms of alaska in the wintertime some of them get caught up behind this the brush on the on the beaches
So mario walked one way and i'd walk the other there's always a bunch of bears and i'd take a 44 and she'd take the
Uh, the rifle and we walked different places looking for the those glass balls
And I came up to a big granite boulder at end and a doe ran out
And behind her was a was a grizzly and the grizzly she turned around because she was kind of caught and he knocked her down into surf
And I just thought oh your rascal and I took my pistol and shot a bow
He stopped and looked at me and then he looked me loped on off
You shot the grizzly bear. No, I just shot shot at him just shot in the air. Okay, wow get out of here
So I walked on up and there was a doe laying there and the little waves lapping up
And I looked oh, I saw why she was giving birth and the little nose was sticking out
Oh
So I drug her out on the beach and I took out a razor sharp salmon knife with a spoon on back
And I cut her open and took the little fawn out
I dried him off and put it down my coat sleeve. I had a red and white plaid. How big was he about big as a cat
And long legs so and I put him down my coat sleeve and I went down marie. What did you shoot?
I said I shot a grizzly and she laughed. I said put your hand down here
I'm not about to put my hand down your sleeve
Anyway, she did the little deer was just just beautiful
And we took him and put him on the boat in a box on the boat
But he wouldn't eat anything and wouldn't drink any milk
So we said he's gonna die
Well, we had left our daughter a couple of days with some friends in sidka Alaska
And we went back and she met us down at the beach
On the dock and when she saw the little deer she held him
Oh, she was five years old and he took her by the ear and started sucking
Just like it was his mama
So we got a little baby doll bottle and put some milk in it put it behind it
And it was running all down her ear and the milk and he got to it. So we we filled him up on milk
Anyway, we took him on we had to put burlap on the boat so he could walk around
And we raised him for the next month or so that we was on the boat and going on vacation
and uh
So when we got ready to go back, uh, I was still on the fire department in Los Angeles
I'd taken a leave of absence we had to go back
And what we do we named him flag after the little flag on his tail after marjorie walters walton's a book the the yearling
and uh
So I bought a big shopping bag with a zipper and I put flag inside now then he's about knee high and he's rather spunky
So marry has two bottles
And I put him on walked on the plane and put him in the seat under the seat my feet over him
And halfway down to seattle he gets to crying for his bottle
So the stewardess come by and marcia would you heat these please? And she said where's the baby?
So I said shall we show him said yes, so we zipped it up and flag popped his head up
And oh all of them had to come look at him that's captain
He says I've smuggled everything on my plane, but never of a year. Well, you let my wife see this when you get so we did
so we took him on to
Redondo beach with us and he got too big he got where he could just jump six or eight feet high
And he was afraid he'd hurt our little girl
So we gave him some people up in apple valley that had a horse ranch
And he stayed up there and we went to visit him had a huge rack of antlers on him
And unusual deer because none none in california like that
So we got a call one day and he said
Some dog scared flag and he jumped that eight foot fence and he got away
He said all right
So the next year we saw an article in the newspaper
That a strange deer and they had picture of flag was nuzzling some tourists in angeles national park
And they took him and they rangers took him and they took him to santa claus village
Where he spent the rest of his life in a petting zoo. Oh my god
What a santa's reindeer. Yeah. Wow. What a story that is
unbelievable
Roger, thank you again. Thank you. I appreciate you doing this. Uh, tell people listening and watching
Where they can find your book find it on amazon
our kindle
Smuggler by roger eaves. That's right. And i'll put a link in uh in the show notes below. Okay. Good. It's been a real pleasure
My pleasure too roger
You
