Hello world. Brad Abraham's is a documentary filmmaker from Canada who's currently based
in the USA. Brad's documentaries feature some of the world's most odd and interesting
characters. For example, he spent three years documenting David Huggins, a 72 year old man
who claims he lost his virginity to an extraterrestrial alien woman hybrid, and also claims he had
multiple children with her. Brad also focuses a considerable amount of his work on conspiracy
theory culture, dissecting the minds of people who believe in the most outlandish theories
and ideas. This was a super fun episode. We got to jump down many different rabbit holes.
Without further ado, please enjoy this episode with Brad Abraham's.
Brad, you are an interesting dude. You have some great work. Thank you. I've been watching
all of your documentaries for the past few days. Again, I've already watched them once.
I've watched them for the second time. Appreciate it. What the hell draws you to these types
of characters? Yeah, so it's two things. One is really the
biggest draw is... Scoot this thing a little bit closer. Sure. The biggest draw is a fascination
with belief and wanting to understand why these people believe in these things. But a
smaller draw, maybe it's about a quarter compared to the 75% of that, is I also want to believe.
There's a part of me that holds out that UFO abductions are maybe real, or Bigfoot is maybe
real, or some of these conspiracy theories are real. I think that's what draws all of
us to this subject matter, really. Even if we're just watching and laughing, we still
want to believe that it could be real. I was telling you right before we started the
guy, Mike Clelland, who wrote the Messenger books about the owls and synchronicities.
I had him on here for a couple hours and we were talking. For me, as far as my experience
talking to people who claim to have been abducted by UFOs, I just started to question him so
much the more and more we started talking. I started to lose... I wanted to believe him
at first. As we started going down the rabbit hole and he started talking more about these
synchronicities and how he believes he was some chosen one, and he had been abducted
so many times. His calling in life was to tell this story. Personally, I lost my personal
grip on it. First of all, let's introduce this guy, David Huggins. Tell me about that
documentary that you did.
David is a mild-mannered, nearly 80-year-old man in Hoboken, New Jersey. He claims that
he has been having extraterrestrial experiences since he was, I think, like nine. Once he
hit 17, these experiences turned sexual. He says he lost his virginity to one of these
extraterrestrials at 17. I'm glad they waited until he was somewhat age-appropriate. Up until
probably like this was happening in the 50s or 60s, up until the 80s or 90s, he kept having
these experiences and decided to chronicle them all through these amazing surrealistic
oil paintings, which he then finished a painting and put it against his wall. It wasn't for
anyone to see except for himself, until basically I came into his life and saw his studio, which
had like 200 something of these paintings and knew that I had to put his life to film.
How did you discover him again?
It was, I don't actually really remember, it was maybe back in like 2010 or 11 or something
listening to some paranormal radio show. They mentioned him offhand as too crazy for them
to even talk about. I was like, well, this is the guy that I need to try and find. Realize
he had no internet presence. He's never used the internet and doesn't have email or anything
like that. I tracked down his neighbor who had done a little book of his paintings, which
not many people had seen, and she gave me his home phone number and I called him like
a cold call and immediately he was just like, yeah, I think it's time for me to tell my
story. Yeah, we had maybe about like 10, two hour long phone calls where I got every single
detail to try and figure out is this going to be worth me spending years to make a documentary.
Is this going to be worth my time? Eventually I spent a weekend with him as an experiment.
I slept in his ex-wife's bedroom, whom he still lives with, but she was away on vacation
and it was just like a weird wild weekend. I was like, yes, this is going to work.
Wow. Oh my God, dude. That's fucking wild.
I've had a couple, yeah, okay, yeah. So, but he's told his story, he has told his story
before, right? Like with that guy, Bud Hopkins. Was he in his books or not?
He wasn't. So, no, but the Bud Hopkins book, I think it was called Intruders, that was
what David, David basically, like a lot of alien abductees didn't have access to all
the memories and he randomly found this book in the bookstore, started reading it and there
was a chapter called Other Women, Other Men that was about kind of sexual abduction experiences
and as soon as he started reading it, he said all of the memories started to crystallize again,
they all came clear and that's when he started to paint them from memory.
Pardon the interruption, but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by our friends at Geology.
This award-winning men's skincare company will formulate a customized skincare routine just
for you using a handful of powerful, proven ingredients that have been trusted by dermatologists
for decades. In fact, Geology is one of the only men's skincare companies to have retinol
as an active ingredient in their products. If you suffer from acne, dark circles under your eyes,
sensitive, or wrinkly skin, you have to look no further. All you gotta do to get started is take
their 30-second diagnostic quiz and their team of dermatologists will design and ship a customized
regimen directly to your door. That's what I did, they gave me all this amazing stuff. I got the
everyday face wash, I got the dark circle wash because I got fucking bags under my eyes, the
repair night cream is amazing too, it feels so good and smells so good. Their face wash is
incredible, it smells amazing, I love the way it makes my skin feel after using it and with over
4,000 five-star reviews, why not give it a try? Head to geology.com, take their free skincare
quiz and save up to 50% off your 30-day trial or just click the link below and use the code
concrete50 at checkout. That's promo code K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E 50 at checkout. Back to the show.
And he claims that he had multiple children with these alien beings and held the children and
wanted to go, it's a fucking, it's bananas, the story. It gets more and more bananas. Yeah, the
children part was, you know, because there's, you know, I've been abducted, you've heard a lot of
people say that and maybe that's true and then there's, you know, I had sex with aliens,
that's another level of sort of credulity, like, well, I believe that, but then there's,
I've had lots of hybrid babies with aliens that I've seen and held and played hide and seek with
on the spaceship and it's like, wow, you know, I can't really, I can't say I believe anymore,
but I still, I want to believe him in that something happened to him, but that detail and
those details, it's just like too much, that's too much for me in my brain to imagine.
Maybe that's just, you know, I can't think outside the box enough for that.
What was your first take dealing with this guy, like the first weekend you spent with him,
like what was your first reaction? Just totally disarmed by so down-to-earth, so nice,
normal, like, plugged into the world, you know, like into politics and everything.
I would walk his street and meet all of his neighbors and they all loved him, they all
just thought of him as like the grandpa on the street, he'd been there 30 years,
go into his place of work, like David's the best. Most people just didn't even know that
he had had these experiences and talk about them with most people, so I was getting this
impression that, you know, maybe he was going to go there thinking he's going to be unhinged
in some way, but that's not the impression you get at all and anyone that meets David is just like,
wow, and then that cognitive dissonance starts to happen, you're like, well someone that seems so
normal, you're not going to write off as just crazy and he's making it up or he has paranoid
delusions because that doesn't seem like what's going on and so then you really start thinking,
could that be? And then that's, you know, what I'm most interested in.
His massive collection of supernatural sci-fi movies on VHS,
did his obsession with these paranormal sci-fi movies start before? These things happened to
him before he started telling the stories or at what point? Because in the documentary you make
the connection or one of the guys you're interviewing makes the connection saying that
these experience, these real life experiences people have directly affect these science fiction
stories and then it's like a cycle and then the science fiction stories affect the more real life
situations people say they encounter. So do you know, do you have like a timeline of when he
started collecting all these movies and becoming obsessed with them?
Yeah, so what's interesting is that seemed to happen later, you know, just like in the 80s
when he started collecting them but he early on was that movie, did you ever see John Carpenter's
The Thing, the 80s one, where it's like Kurt Russell and it's like just these horribly disgusting
like alien monsters. Well the first version of that, the original version of that came out
the year that he had his first encounter and so or he watched it around that time, you know,
probably in the theater or something and so there's these things, you know, I'll hear things like
that and it's like well maybe then that's in your brain and maybe you still had an experience but
you're like mapping on things that you're seeing but still back in, you know, in the, I guess in
the 50s and the 60s there was kind of a UFO mania too, like there was like reports of UFOs over the
White House and you know, he probably, because there was no internet, he probably had very little
exposure to this stuff but it was still there and around and especially when he started remembering
most of it, that's in the 80s and that's like, you know, prime UFO time.
Yeah, a lot of his story, a lot of his drawings are very similar to a lot of other really
popular events and he doesn't have access to the internet, so how would he know?
Right, yeah. I don't know how much of that imagery he, I get the grade definitely I think
everyone had seen but insectoid beings,
Praying mantis.
Yeah, yeah and the tall people, the alien women, those seem pretty unique. He did see like a,
he had mentioned like a Doctor Who episode that he saw that he had mentioned, he saw it and he was
like, oh that's weird, it's like I'm having a memory and I watched it and it's like these giant ants,
like these ant people that sort of look like his Praying Mantis and so again, it might be that,
that he had these experiences and then he saw these, these mantoid beings and they remind him
of him or he saw those and he's like, oh, I had, you know, mapping that onto in his own brain.
Yeah, it's, it also reminds me of the Travis, the whole Travis Walton story as well.
Right, yeah.
Like with the human slash alien hybrids, you know, which was very odd.
And more terrifying, like David, the Travis Walton story is like truly terrifying
and David is just like, oh, I had a good time.
Yeah, yeah. So overall, your experience with him and Doc, how long did you film with him?
It was, it was, it happened over years, like maybe three years or something, but I would only go
like a couple of weekends per year to shoot with him because it was all self-funded.
I got a little money from a production company, but it, it just takes, Docs take forever and then
it took like two years to, you know, edit it and put it together, but I'd, I'd basically,
the first time I went and saw him was like nine years ago.
Wow.
Yeah. And he still calls me like every other day.
Does he really?
Yeah, he just checks in, he'll tell me if he had a weird dream, if someone buys one of his paintings,
he just wants to know what's going on with me.
Yeah.
I want to buy one of his paintings, these things are amazing.
You got to do it in person.
Yeah. I'll get you to fly there and get it, buy from him.
Pretty much, or if you have a friend in New York.
So is this guy, is this guy full of shit? Did this happen to him? What's your take?
My take is knowing him, he, he didn't make it up. He experienced something.
And it's hard for me to believe that it's exactly as he described it,
but so he might be, he might be like in the movie, the, the professor of religious studies
says, you know, we experienced something, but then popular culture is, is how we
filter it and see it, because we can't even comprehend what that reality really is.
So maybe, I mean, that's what I'm more lean to, that David was having what
classically would be called mystical experiences, which are similar to psychedelic experiences
without the drugs. And yeah, they're like almost like religious experiences that David was having.
Maybe it's like some kind of epilepsy, like there's, I talked to some neuro,
some neurologist or neuro entheologist, and there's like, there are types of waking hour
epilepsy that they're very vivid hallucinations. Maybe, you know, everyone's wrong and he has
some kind of paranoid delusional personality disorder. Maybe he is making it up, or maybe
something really happened to him, like all these things it could be. But I, I, I would just say
that I think that he's just not lying. That's all I can say is that he's not lying that strange
things happen to him, or he experienced strange things. And, and he's telling it as he remembers
it. But I, if I were like with David, when one of these things were happening, I don't think I
would have seen what he was seeing. I don't think they were really happening in our like objective
reality as we see it. Yeah. Sort of it was like, like in almost another dimension, like a dream
like state. Who knows? Yeah. And, and, and I also, you know, I'm not, I want to clarify, I'm not
saying that like all UFO sightings are this either, because I think those can be different things,
like UFOs, which now we have, you know, footage of from the, the military. That's a big leap
still from being abducted and from being, from having sex with whoever's on these UFOs, you know?
They don't have to be the same thing. And I think a lot of people get caught up in that. Well,
the funny thing is about the whole, like, I mean, it's a fun, it's such a fun subject. The funny,
the, the interesting thing about it is, is not that long ago, just like talking about UFOs
was like, had the stigma of modern day talking about abduction. Like right, like now talking
about UFOs is like, okay, yeah, it's, it's been in the New York Times. It's been like, like,
Navy pilots talk about it. And it's like, yeah, we accept it. And, but abduction is kind of like,
okay, now you're crossing the line. But not that long ago, it was like just talking about
seeing UFOs being real, talking about UFOs being real, that was crossing the line. Yeah. So how
much down the line farther down, you know, the timeline we go when, you know, maybe abduction
will be proven right. And maybe, yeah. And then like, okay, we'll wait for sex with aliens for
other 10 years until we accept that. And then we'll all be looking back at David and being like,
damn, he was right. Yeah. But I mean, going back in, in like the Greek and Hindu mythology,
their sex with their gods, right, who kind of look like aliens and come from the sky. And so it
could, you know, it could just be a different form of that. Yeah. He seems just like such a,
such a nice person, such a genuine guy. He doesn't seem like the kind of guy that's looking for
attention. He's not publishing books or anything. He seems like the, like even the art show seems
like something that you guys kind of like, or not maybe you, but other people around him pushed
him to do, like encouraged him to do it. Yeah. Oh, no, I did it. Like I set up the whole show for
him. Yeah. Otherwise, there'd no one would see his work in person. So we just rented a gallery and
filled it with his paintings. And then people just came. It was like in Manhattan. So people
just walked in and it was one is like his basically his first show or solo show. And,
and he got to interact with people and everyone that talked to him were like, wow, like,
you know, I look at the images and they look bonkers, but then I talked to him and now I really
have to think about it. Yeah. It's fucking fascinating. Yeah. What other types of people
similar to him have you talked to or interviewed? Right. So he's sort of the most, the person who's
his most experienced, the supernatural. So there's, you know, I've had, I've done a short
and working on a feature about cryptozoologists, those who study animals that most likely don't
exist or cryptozoologists. Yeah. Yeah. It just stands for it's the study of unknown or hidden
animals. And so bigfoot falls into that. The Loch Ness monster falls into that. And then animals
that were once extinct and maybe could still be alive. So like the Tasmanian tiger or there's,
have you heard of the sealic ant? No, that was, that was a fish that they thought. Seela. Seela
camp. Seela camp. Yeah. Okay. It was a fish that they thought when extinct millions of years ago.
And then just, you know, decades ago, actually found it's still alive and still, you know,
thriving populations of it looks wild, like this wild prehistoric fish. So that would be
considered like a cryptid with this study. And then it goes as far as there's like one called the
Mongolian death worm, which sort of in between, do you ever see that movie Tremors? Of course. Yeah.
So it's, it's sort of like mini or like sandworms from Dune. It's like these, these mini versions
of that, that spit acid. It's one of the most terrifying animals in all movies. Yeah. And,
and so these Mongolian like, you know, yak herders and desert nomads claim that they see these
death worms. They're not that, they're like maybe like that. Okay. And, but they, they can like
paralyze you, spit acid, electrocute you, do psychic things. So that's like far on the,
on the hard to believe end. And then there's, there's some that like, you know, we do find
creatures that we didn't think existed. Yeah. I find it. I love the, the whole, I love the UFO
subject, but when I talk to people about UFOs, I often find that they also believe in Bigfoot.
Yes. And then it kind of just ruins it for me. You know, there's, there's factions though,
there's some, there's some that believe they're connected, that Bigfoot is an interdimensional
being. Right. Yeah. And then there's the real cryptozoologists. They're, they treat it like
zoology, you know, like it's a, it's a science. And some of them are actually like primatologists.
And they would, they hate when people connect like UFOs and Bigfoot, because to them UFOs are the,
the, the crazy stupid thing. And Bigfoot's the real thing. Right. Yeah. Yeah. There is, there's a,
I've heard of that, like, like flying saucers and UFO sightings being directly correlated with Bigfoot.
Yeah. Yeah. That's odd. It is. Yeah. And then I also did a short talk about a conspiracy
theorist and now working on a feature doc about, you know, a group of conspiracy theorists. And,
and that's another kind of. That's another guy that was really, really, really nice guy, seemed like.
Def, and another guy named David. He was named David and an artist. Yeah. Yeah. Synchronicities,
man. Exactly. And he, so he, that's, you know, I, I, I'm not like really interested with the,
unraveling the conspiracies that he was interested in. It was more unraveling him
and his beliefs and his psychology. Because, you know, his, the conspiracies and that they were
like, so out of this world, right? Like, you know, no children died at Sandy Hook school shootings.
And, you know, everything is a false flag and, you know, like mind control stuff,
which a lot of it, you, when you, when you break it down, a lot of that stuff has precedent.
A lot of it has come true. Yeah. Like MKUltra. Right. There have been false flag events like
Gulf of Tonk and start the Vietnam war. And, and so, and like Edward's known with all the
surveillance. So it, it's easier to understand why people fall down those rabbit holes because,
you know, the government's always been lying to us in, in the most outrageous ways. But then
it's taken to a level where, you know, it's like, oh yeah, the, the Jews are injecting us with
microchips and drinking baby's blood and all of that. And it's like, oh, well, yeah. What do you
think it is about people that draws them to those crazy conspiracies? Is there a commonality
that you found that, yeah, between all those people? Yeah. I think one, one is that we, we all,
there's a lot of chaos in the world. More and more so, it feels that way, because we're aware of
everything that's going on. And that's scary. And it helps to try and bring order to that chaos. So
if you, if all this horrible shit is happening, like, you know, the Travis Scott concert,
and in, you're like, why, why is that happening? It's more scary for some people to think that
that just happened, you know, that it was a mistake and it was random versus this was a planned event,
you know, and people are controlling all of this. And so everything that bad that's happening, these
are people that are controlling it. And, and so there might be a way to break free of that control
or I know the secret knowledge and, and I won't be affected by this. And so I think that helps,
especially when it's a little different in this country, because you could, you could say like
conspiracy theories rose when religion fell in a lot of places, but because religion was another
thing that that sort of brought order out of chaos. But in the, in the United States, you know, belief
in religion hasn't fallen. It's seems to be increasing. Yeah, not in Florida. I don't know where
you live. Not in Florida. Not on the coast. Inland, it's probably, yeah. Yeah, yeah. But yeah, and
our God is Donald Trump down here. Right. It seems like it. And then on, and then the people that,
that, so I think anyone can fall into that belief, but the people that go really deep into it, I think
then there's something psychologically that's going on. And it could, it could come from, you
know, there's studies that, that certain people have had trauma. And then that leads them to be
suspicious of authority figures, because maybe that trauma was caused by a parent or a teacher.
And then it leads you to have distrust for any authority or authority figure. And usually that,
the largest form of that is the government. And so that trauma makes you suspicious and
suspicious for the rest of your life. And then there's this, this thing called apophenia,
which is, it's our faculty to, it's related to our faculty to see patterns in the world.
And so that's a good thing, you know, especially when you're like a hunter-gatherer,
and you, you're, you're figuring out like, is that a deer or is that just leaves, you know?
Saber-toothed tigers trying to kill me. Yeah, exactly. But when it goes into overdrive, and
especially in, in our culture where it's not as important, you can start seeing patterns in places
that it doesn't, that don't exist. And, and that spectrum goes into paranoia. If you go to the
extreme end, because you're, you know, everything has meaning, and there's no randomness. But
interestingly, that's also the spectrum towards like creativity. Because like, for example,
apparently like Da Vinci was, had big time apophenia, he would see, you know, in, in the
grains of wood, he would see like whole scenes. And then to him, yeah, and that could be like a
painting. But if you take that too far, then, you know, it's like facing Mars or Jesus in the toast.
Yeah, that goes into overdrive. And, and it seems like a lot of these people have that as well.
And, and similar with like the numerology, you know, like,
like Gamatria, it's, it's like where, where everything has numerological, numerological
significance and can be broken down via numbers. Yeah. It's similar.
Do you, do you notice any commonalities with like people who were just lonely?
That too. Yeah. That because what I've noticed, I just interviewed this guy who did a documentary
about QAnon. Okay. Who's the guy? Colin Hoback. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And from what he gathered,
or what I gather, we talked about it from like the people that are like balls deep into this
deep state satanic pedophile ring. Yeah. Is that it's just people that just lack a sense of community.
Yeah. You know. Yeah. And, and that, I would say that is a big part of it. And it's also
where I think a lot more of the like hateful conspiracies come into play, because if you
take David as an example from, from my doc, he David D's or David D's, um, D's nuts. Yeah.
D's nuts. He, he had no IRL interactions. He was basically a hermit. He'd maybe go to the
grocery store once every two weeks or something. And he had one friend in town who was also a
conspiracy theorist. And, and so all of his interactions were just like online on Facebook
and in YouTube comments. Um, and, and as you know, it's, it's a lot easier to, to start to
marginalize people, to think people are idiots. Um, and to be mean when it's only online. And
on your world gets really small, even though the internet is big, your world gets smaller
and smaller and smaller because you're only interacting with the screen and, and just
your group, you're like ever shrinking group. And so when, when people like, like me and my,
you know, cameraman went out there to meet him, it sort of like blows his world open.
He's like, cause I'm Jewish and, and he's just like, oh, you're a nice Jewish person.
Like you're, you're not trying to, you know, control me. And yeah, he had like a lot of
anti-Semitic imagery in his artwork, right? He did. Yeah. And why was that?
So he would just say he's not anti-Semitic. He's like anti-Zionist, um, which he didn't
even know what Zionism was. Uh, but it's, you know, it's, it, I think he's just influenced by
everything that comes before him and, and beyond, behind every conspiracy theory online, it's like
pretty much the Jews once you, you know, keep, it's for most of them. Yeah. Even, even if it's
not like expressly, um, stated, it's, it goes back to the whole, like that protocols of the
elders of Zion, which is this like famous forgery from Europe and like the, I don't know, like then
1900s or 1800s, maybe even goes before that. Um, that was this fake document that was basically
saying, written as if it were the Jews that they want to control the world. And, and so it was
taken as being real. Uh, wasn't there also something, the whole like Satanist baby eaters
started back then too? It did blood libel. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And so I think that stuff, and that
was always just because the Jews were the other, they were the other in Europe, you know, the
marginalized group that would never assimilate and had strange rituals and they were from a far
off place and they looked a little different, but they looked just, you know, the same enough that
they could, you know, sneak into our society and, and so that's where it seemed to, to start and
never have been able to shake that, especially in the conspiracy world. But, you know, meeting David
and, and, and him meeting us, it was just like, Oh wow, you know, you know, nice, normal guys are
in my life now. And, um, and I can talk about things that aren't conspiracies. And he just sort of
like lit up and wanted to talk about his bunnies and his cats and, you know, art and, and not talk
about conspiracies. And yeah, he seemed like a completely different person. Yeah. How long does
it take you to do something like that, that documentary on him that was like a 15 minute
short? Yeah, that, that, um, so that was another like self-funded thing. So it's like, you just go
there and you try and shoot as much as you can. And so we only really had a couple of days to shoot
with him. We wanted to go back, but he, he died while I was editing. Yeah. And he didn't, he didn't
hint that he was sick. So I had no idea if I had known why I would have like shown him stuff and,
and tried to go out and film with him again. So the editing part took like a year just because
like, I didn't know what to do with it. How did you find out that he died? I just saw this obituary
online. Yeah, I was just searching him to get some like image reference of his work. And then it
showed up in the obituary and, um, yeah, he died two months after we filmed with him. And he alluded
to like very offhand that he might have had some cancer, but that he cured it with by drinking
baking soda is he had read on YouTube or watched a YouTube video that was like, you can cure your
cancer by, if you make your body alkaline enough. And so he just, he never went to the doctor.
And he also had like a, like a, like an emeter, like a Scientology machine. Yeah, it was called,
it looks just like one, but it's different. It's called the Reif machine. And it basically works
on the principle that every like virus and bacteria and parasite, um, operates on a certain
frequency. And if you like tune another frequency into that frequency, then it kills it all in
your body if you hold onto these tubes. And so, and I mean, he got hoodwinked into buying. Oh,
this is it. There's thousands of dollars. Really? And, and the person who sold it to him,
hoodwinked him into buying like 10 of them so that he could resell them, which he was never
able to sell any. And David was poor. So he just went into debt is super sad. Did you, are these
things, what are they used for? Are they nothing? They're just bullshit machines. I, I mean, I would
say so. Maybe I'm, maybe I'm wrong. Reif's world. Yeah. But it's, it doesn't seem like there's
anything to it. And in it, he's like, he's using it. And he's like, and I don't even feel a thing.
Yeah. What do you think he learned about something like, is this something like he found on YouTube
or like? Likely. Yeah. Not, he didn't really go on Reddit except to look at his own. There was a
subreddit about him. About him? Oh, oh yeah. Yeah. I remember you showing that. So he would go on
that subreddit. So basically they would, it was really popular. It was like, now there's like 15,000
people in the subreddit. And wow, they would just post his art and make fun of it, you know.
And we, but it was super active, like to be like, you know, 30, 50 comments on, on these paintings.
And he would go on to read them because it was the only place he could see people like talking
about his work. And so even though they were calling him like schizophrenic and crazy on there,
he still like got a kick out of it. And he would, um, he would make like burner accounts
on Reddit and like argue. What was the, he, you asked him about, um, like marriage or
relationships. He got poisoned by something. Yeah. So he, you know, he had never apparently
had a steady relationship, um, or in his adult life. And, and his reason was, uh, that he,
he had been doing airbrushing as his job. You know, he would do like big billboards and, you
know, movie posters and stuff, which was all, a lot of it was done through airbrushing then.
And he never wore a mask and it's super, it's like heavy metals, you know, aerosolized that you're
breathing in that go, you know, that gets into your brain tissue and cadmium was the major one.
Cadmium. Yeah. And so when he told me that, he said, he said, I got poisoned and like I had
neurological damage from the cadmium. And he was sick for like years from that and never really
fully recovered. Um, and that was like the prime of his life. And it fucked him up enough that
he, his career never recovered and he never was able to, you know, have these, have lasting
relations didn't like make total sense. But I started looking up cadmium poisoning in the
effect on the brain. And there was a lot of links to schizophrenia of it causing
schizophrenic like symptoms. And when he got poisoned, that was also around the same time
that he fell into these conspiracies and getting really deep into them. And before that, it didn't
seem like he was like, no, I never even had any, I never thought about conspiracies or
any of this stuff. Like he was into UFOs and that sort of thing, but it seemed to coincide. And so
maybe, you know, I drew like a thin link to maybe this neurological damage thrust him into
like the deep world of conspiracy. But you know, I shouldn't make even be making that link because
I'm not have any kind of qualifications to do that. But it's like, it's what I saw.
Now, did you notice any like personality traits that were similar with him and people like,
um, how get David, how no similarities, not really. Oh, yeah, no, not, not really. I mean,
they're both, I guess one thing like the cryptos, well, just in these people,
they are tend to be more introverted and a little more hermit like it's been a lot of time
with themselves and self reflecting as well. But then again, those are also like,
you know, people in history that have had like mystical experiences are oftentimes,
you know, people are self-reflective and they go on these journeys alone and yeah.
And you just find like, ever since you started talking to these people and filming them, you're
just, you're constantly drawn to these types of characters. Yeah. Yeah. With beliefs that make
other people want to write them off immediately. Like if there's someone that, that someone else,
or most people would just say, don't waste your time talking to this person. They're crazy.
I want to really dig in and be like, are they or is what they believe really crazy? Why do they
believe it? Maybe if we figure that out, we can understand more about ourselves, especially with
conspiracies, because we have to learn how to have a dialogue about this stuff and with these people
now in our country, more than any other country, is just like, it's just such a split and people
are digging in on both sides and there's, there's like no crosstalk at all. And even in the same
families, you know. Yeah. Well, it's a problem with, with algorithms, right? When you start talking
about one thing, it kind of just like, they hood, they hoodwink you into one little group of people
and there's no outside perspective on like sites like YouTube and Twitter. And it just kind of
like feed you all the same shit. So curious if Facebook didn't exist where we would be at.
I know. Right. God. And then, and then, you know, on top of that, which was something I talked to
Cullen about is the whole censorship thing, how YouTube and Google, especially and Twitter,
they censor a lot of the conversations around the conspiratorial stuff. And it pushes those people
to the chans, like a Chan and a Coon pushes them to Reddit and then shoot and then bit shoot.
Yeah. And then once they get banned off these big websites like Twitter, it just makes them more
emboldened to stand by their, whatever they, whatever it is they believe. And they push it
even harder because they feel like they're the one that's, you know, got the boot on their neck.
Right. Which is fascinating how all these, you know, the whole Q thing blew up from that,
you know, is when, is when the whole Q thing got banned from Reddit and it pushed it to the
chans, which is, which is essentially, if you follow the timeline, what blew it up,
you know, into this massive mainstream thing that everyone thinking that Donald Trump was
some superhero that was going to take down these evil cabal. And still do. Yeah, still do.
And they're still waiting for JFK Jr. to, to come back. Oh, yeah. And in Dallas, you know.
And his, uh, yeah, his, uh, his, uh, memorial is the shape of the letter Q. Yeah. And, and,
oh man, they have a vigil, vigil for him still in like, there was some,
they were waiting for him, I think like a week ago and really in Dallas.
Did you go there and film it? I didn't. No, I, I did not. But the, that Q and,
you know, Q non anonymous podcasts, they, they had someone there, I think. Yeah. They did.
I bet that, I bet you would have caught some interesting characters there. Yeah. Yeah. I feel
like the whole, I've stayed away from the, the Q verse and even the, like the Q verse and the,
the sort of more political conspiracies because everyone else is covering that like vice and,
and other, you know, TV channels and websites and stuff. So I'm less interested in the more
current affairs. Have you seen the HBO documentary? Yeah, I haven't. I really should.
It reminds me so much of your work. It's like, it's, it's so, it's, it reminds me of the same
type of people, you know, these outcasts, the outcast, the people that, you know,
the lone, you know, have no sense of community, don't have a lot of, you know,
it's, it's sad, but it's so fascinating at the same time, you know, and here, like in this area,
it's like, you're, I'm right in the middle of it. There's so many people like that in Florida.
Yeah. It's just, I mean, I'm in Texas. So I've never been to Texas. I've been to Texas. I've,
I've been to the airport. I've never been outside the airport. Yeah. I mean, I'm in the Austin
bubble. Okay. So you're in like the, like the Silicon Valley of Texas. Yeah. It just seems like,
like, you know, other cities I've lived, like I used to live in like Miami and Fort Lauderdale.
Did you really? I did. Yeah. And, and Seattle and, you know, Toronto and, you know,
you've been all over the place. Yeah. Like liberal cities and, and Austin's like that,
but like when you leave. Alex Jones lives there, doesn't he? Yeah, exactly. Which is funny. Yeah.
And he likes it, you know? Well, yeah, of course. He loves, you know, he loves being on all those
podcasts that are in Austin. Exactly. And he just got, didn't, I saw on the news today that he got
charged or he got pled, or he got, he doesn't look good. He's guilty for the Sandy Hook thing,
right? Doesn't look good. I know a filmmaker who, she just, she's, she's wrapping her movie on him,
her doc. Oh, really? Yeah. Alex's war. She was embedded with him for like a year. What? Yeah.
Like working, like doing her documentary with his permission? Yeah. Really? Yeah.
She did that doc, that feel when no GF, I don't know, TFW, no GF, but incels. I haven't seen that.
Yeah. And so she's kind of was in that community and got access to Alex.
And he was cool with it. Yeah. I don't know the whole story, but yeah. Is it,
have you seen the final? No. You haven't seen, because they just wrapped it, right? Yeah. Okay.
It's like, it's going to be in between. It's not, it's going to be sort of like
both sympathetic and showing him for how he, not just like a hit piece, trying to make him look
like a piece of shit. I think that's the only reason why she's human. Yeah. Have you ever met him?
No. I've seen him. Yeah. Just going crazy at Barton Springs, sorry, the green belt,
which is just like walking trail. And at the start of COVID, you had to have like a reservation
to use the trail, so it wouldn't get too crowded. And Alex just showed up to go walking there,
and he didn't have a reservation, and he just like lost his mind on the like poor park person,
just this kid who was like, sorry, I can't let you in. Really? Yeah, and he was just, you know,
ranting about. And you saw him just, yeah. Be rating some kid. Wow. It's on YouTube too. Wow.
Yeah. Have you, have you followed the Bohemian Grove thing? Yeah. I mean, that was kind of great.
I thought that was fun. That was, you know, before Alex Jones was like, had sort of picked
aside politically, he hated all politicians it seemed like. And, you know, seems like he's back
there now. Oh, really? Okay. Just from like lately, I've seen him on a couple podcasts.
And he seems like he's changed his tune on, on, you know, he used to be like hardcore,
like Trump. Yeah. Now he's like anti-Trump again. Okay. He changes with the wind, I guess. Yeah.
I mean, and everyone seemed to hit Bush back then. Yeah. Yeah. No, that document that he did was
pretty fucking cool back then that he did way back in the day. It's on YouTube. Yeah.
So, are you working on anything right now? Yeah. So the David D's piece got me hired to
co-direct a feature length doc where there's going to be maybe like, let's say like 10,
like conspiracy theorists that we're just going to sort of live with and do these intimate
portraits of like conspiracy theorists, people who are ex-conspiracy theorists,
family members of conspiracy theorists, and then intertwine that with,
with like experts, you know, like historians, psychologists, neurologists,
who, who will give context to why, basically like why we believe, why are conspiracy theories
on the rise, etc. Then working on a feature length doc about cryptozoologists, so the people that
study Bigfoot and the Loch Ness Monster and all of those, I had done a short doc that,
that helped to inspire this. And then working on a docu-series, that's about folklore,
like bizarre folklore, and Telos or Bust, the one about Mount Shasta, that's, that sort of like our
pilot in progress for that one. Okay. Yeah. Telos or Bust. Yeah. Explain that one for people who
aren't familiar. Yeah. So, so there's a town in Northern California called Mount Shasta,
it's a really small town, like 3000 people, but it's known for this majestic mountain that, that
rises up into the sky that you see from, you know, miles and miles away and you see it and it's just
like, wow, that this mountain is striking and it sort of calls you to it. But most people just
drive right by and, and don't realize that, that in the town, at the foot of the mountains,
a large percentage of the people that live there believe that, that there's a hidden city
underneath the mountain called Telos and it's inhabited by what they call Ascended Masters,
which are sort of these, these perfect beings, immortal beings that maybe were once human
and they live in this amazing crystalline, interdimensional city. Yeah. And, and they're,
you know, they escaped, you know, Lemurian Atlantis when they sank, a handful of them had escaped to
Telos through the inner earth network of tunnels that exists. So they say, and, and they ended up in
underneath Mount Shasta. And so there's a whole, there's a whole spectrum of beliefs there, like
there's a religion that popped up called the I am activity that is based out of there that has
their own set of beliefs. There's the people that, that kind of somewhat worship the Ascended Masters.
And then there's those that just, they want to like get into Telos and like think it's a physical
city and they look for the door on the mountain and some claim that they found the door and that
you can access city others. It's, it's more like a spiritual place. So they'll lead you into it
through meditation or chanting. And so it's this whole, but imagine like it's a whole little town
of people that, that all sort of believe that, that this thing exists, this sort of metaphysical
thing exists under, under the mountain. Yeah. And so it's a wild place and there's, and, and there's,
for a town that size, there's like 10 crystal shops and they're all like totally busy inside of
people just buying crystals and other, other things. And everyone you meet is like, or almost
everyone you meet is, is super fascinating, interesting character as their own story about how
they got there and why. It's funny when you go to those like weird little like, like remote towns
in these random places around the country, you'll find these types of characters. Sedona is another,
I haven't been there, but Sedona. Yeah. And then in Florida, there's Casadaga. And that's a whole,
that's a city that's, that's all like spiritualists and mediums. So really? Yeah. Yeah. And psychics.
And so it's like, it's a tiny town inside another town, but it's the like highest percentage of,
of spiritualists and mediums. And so if you really want to get a reading or like talk to a dead
loved one, you know, like you want to talk to your great grandma, you go to Casadaga,
and you can talk to your great grandma. Really? Yeah. Do you know what part of Florida it is?
Yeah, it's, it's central little North ish. I think it's near my, my geography is not 100%,
but it's nearer to like Orlando. So it's not that far from here, probably. Okay. Yeah.
I'll have to look it up. Yeah. Yeah. That's, we want to do one of our episodes there. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. Have you ever talked to a medium or anything like that? I'm not, not really. I haven't had a
serious conversation with, with psychics. Yes. But not someone who channels the dead.
Right. Yeah. You have talked to psychics. Yes. What is your experience with psychics? I talked to
this man who's known as, as the great greatest living psychic or the,
he's like the most scientifically studied psychic. His name is Sean Haribans. He's almost 90.
And I found out about him because I'm working on another little short
doc about this, um, this scientist in Canada who he was made famous by his God helmet
experiments. So he designed a helmet that stimulated your brain with magnetic fields and, and
created like the God experience. And, uh, he also, he studied, he's a very, he was, he died. He's a
very reputable scientist and fairly well respected. And he, he had this psychic Sean Haribans into
his lab to study his brain, to try and figure out like what is going on with this guy and also to,
to run studies where he would give psychic readings of people, um, in a, he would do a
scientific study designed around this. And the accuracy was pretty like statistically
astounding. So he told me to go meet with this guy and he lives out, he lives outside of Houston.
So I just drove and met him. And as soon as I walked in the room, he, um, he asked me how
I was doing like post breakup and I had just broken up with like a girlfriend of three years.
Really? Yep. And then he started asking me about my, my work shoots that I was working on. And
there's no way cause I like, these are shoots that I haven't even shot yet. And he's like,
Oh yeah. So you're going to Africa and like crazy shit. Like just as soon as I walked in the room
and I was just like, Oh wow. Um, cause I, you know, I'd never had a reading or even necessarily
where was this again? In outside of Houston. Okay. And the problem is he, um, he, he's like
Trinidadian and Indian and his accent is like almost indecipherable. Like I understood just
half of what he was saying. It was really hard to understand him. Uh, and he's super old,
not in good health. And so I was meeting with him to see if I would want to film with him. But
yeah, I was wild and he's had, um, so pretty much every past president or administration
has consulted him. And he had, he was showing me like the official documents, like whatever
white, like with Bill Clinton, you know, and Bill Clinton's asking him about, he's advising him on
like soybean future prices, like crazy shit. Yeah. Yeah. He's got, he has correspondence with all
these past presidents. And the only one of, you know, probably since like Reagan, um, that he
hasn't consulted was, well, and Biden, I doubt he has, but was, uh, was Trump. So Trump was the
only one that he, and apparently you remember, Trump don't have time for that shit. Do you
remember Corey Lewandowski? Trump's, he was like Trump's campaign manager.
Corey Lewandowski. Yeah. He was Trump's campaign manager. And then he like shoved some like a,
a female reporter in an event and like bruised her arm. And then he was out. And was he living
Florida? No, that was right. Roger Stone. Oh no. And you're thinking of the other guy younger guy.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's not him. But anyway, so Corey, he looked at, looked at guy up, he's
talking about. Yeah. What's his name? Corey Lewandowski. Corey Lewandowski. So, so Sean
Haribans told me, I don't have proof obviously, but that Corey Lewandowski reached out to him
and was like, well, you know, Trump wants a reading. We want Trump to get a reading. And Sean
Haribans basically was just like, I'll give him a reading if he goes and sees like a psychologist
or something because like something's not right in his head. Before meeting him? Before, before
meeting him. He said that. Oh man. Yeah. That's the guy. Okay. Yeah. So he, he didn't want to give
Trump a reading basically. Oh, I wish he would have. Yeah, it would have been. Could you imagine
being able to film that? I know. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, his, I read a bunch of the studies that,
I mean, he was studied at like, I think like Caltech or just some, some like, you know, real
serious educational institutions and some of his like, his hits, like his, his, you know,
psychic hits were like trillion to one odds. Yeah. Yeah. But then other times, like with a lot of
this phenomena, it's hard to reproduce consistently. Other times he was just like as good as chance,
you know, so it wasn't like every time he would, he would be able to read someone
accurately, but other times it was just like scary how accurate he was. Well, is he still alive?
He's still alive. Look him up real quick. Yeah. How do you spell his name?
Sean S-E-A-N and then Haribands is H-A-R-R-I-B-A-N-C-E. Haribands. Okay. Yeah. So the, one of the
things I'm, I'm just coming back to me now. This guy, I mean, he's very intense looking. Oh yeah.
Yeah. That's what he looks like now. Yeah. The gray hair. Really nice guy.
And Houston. Yeah. And so he didn't, he had, he didn't even learn to read or write until like
in his, in his like teens because he had a severe learning disability. And also he,
he has no, his brain has no geospatial faculty. So if he walks out of his house,
he has no idea where he is. Like he's lost immediately. Yeah. Like he has no, he has,
he just doesn't know where he is in space basically, like directionally. Yeah. And there's,
when they had him in the MRI, there was like, it looked as if he had some kind of brain damage
in certain areas. And so, you know, the, the lay theory is like that, you know,
damage in one area could lead to some kind of enhancement in other areas. Yeah. I've heard,
I've heard things similar to that with like people who have had lots of brain trauma. Right.
Yeah. Like they somehow become like excel in some area of their life, whether it be like,
like business or whatever, whatever it is or sports or amazing at math. Yeah. Oh, that's so weird.
Yeah. So does he not leave his house? Not really. And I think, well, with his wife,
he has his wife, so she always has to be with him. Yeah. And he's so old now, I don't think they,
you know, do much. So did you end up filming with him at all? No, mostly because I can't
understand, I can barely understand him. That's the problem. And I like to interview him. You can,
but it's just the interview with him. I don't know what he's, I don't know what he's saying to me.
I don't know if he's answering my question. And, and so maybe his wife was there, but it's, yeah,
that's a tough one. And also a tough one to make, like, how do I make that look interesting?
Because all he does is sort of just sit at home. And his home is, you know, it's not remarkable.
And yeah, that's one of the cool things about your doc, like the first one, the first,
what was the first one with David Dees? Like the, you're just confined to like his trailer,
but you fucking made it look so sick with all of the shots that you made. And even when it comes
to like, you showed the, the montage of him creating that one piece and you had like the,
the wide angle, just doing a 180 to him. That was so cool. Yeah, we had, we put a 360 cam
up in between him and his computer. And we just like in post was spinning, circling it. Yeah.
Wow, that was fucking cool. Do you do any of the cinematography yourself or are you just strictly
directed? I do a little, that one was, was shot by my, my buddy Cody Cobb. He's like an amazing
photographer. And basically like, if I can have, like he did that as a favor, if I can't afford a,
the DP, I'll just shoot it myself, but I always want to hire a real cinematographer when I can.
Like Levin Saucers, that was shot by, or most of it was shot by the guy who did Napoleon Dynamite,
who shot Napoleon Dynamite. What was? Levin Saucers. Which was that? No, the David Huggins one.
Oh, okay. Oh, I didn't understand. I thought you said Levin Saucers. So the guy who shot
Napoleon Dynamite shot that? What? That's fucking wild, dude. That was another one that was shot,
fucking amazing. And the way, also like, I noticed the way like you, like the, that you guys like
spliced the B roll. Like I love the way you cut those things. You know what I mean? Like, first
of all, you started it with like just, I was raped or I was, I lost my virginity to an alien when I
was 17 years old. And then it just like cuts to him, like in a fucking valley or something. Like,
so cool the way you did that. What I was about to say before I went into that, what was, we're
talking about psychics. When, when I first had Mike Cleland on, you know, his story is about like
owls and UFOs, like the synchronicities of, you know, how whenever there's owl sightings, there's
UFO sightings. And his theory is that when people see these owls, what they really are as aliens,
sort of using some sort of, some sort of like visual mind trick to making you think it's an owl.
So you don't think of it as you, you don't remember you saw an alien, you have this implanted memory
of seeing an owl. And the book, his first book, messengers is just basically
hundreds of different accounts, like the most famous accounts of these,
these things happening, these situations happening. And then he, he goes into,
you know, he started telling me that he's seen multiple, he's been seeing psychics
his whole life. And he's like, Oh yeah, I went to this psychic, I went to that psychic,
I've been seeing this psychic, I did hypnotic regression here. I've been in hypnosis hundreds
of times and starts talking about all these psychics. And I'm like, Whoa, like, first of all,
I have like deeply skeptical about psychics. Yeah. So he starts like talking about his like
on on wavering belief in, in mediums and psychics. And he sort of lost me there,
which is the same thing with Bigfoot. When people let I start to start talking about UFOs
people, they start talking about Bigfoot. Yeah, I kind of like lose it. Yeah, I think I think with
psychics, what I think is, is like a lot of these things, 99.99% of it is, is not real. And maybe
that, you know, not necessarily that the psychic is a scam artist, but that they're just, you know,
saying what's coming to them, or they are scam artists, but that there's, there's like enough
there and enough evidence that, that that 0.0001% let like something is going on. It's like,
you know, the, are you familiar with the remote viewing phenomenon, those experiments?
A little bit. Yeah. So that, you know, government program that lasted 20 years,
many millions of dollars put into it that had results. Who was the guy, the billionaire who
did that, who like put a bunch of money into that? Oh, Bigelow. Bigelow. Yeah. So he, I don't know if
he, he did, I don't know if he specifically put money into the remote viewing. He put it into the
like UFO stuff. But for the remote viewing, that was just like Pentagon CIA money. Yeah. And once
the Freedom of Information Act, once they were able to get those documents through that, it painted
a picture of this like whole program. And the people who ran the program at Stanford were able
to write about it and have written books about it in all of the studies that they did. And that
were presented to the military were laid bare. And, and there was like, there was, you know,
there's stuff there that, that even in their own report was like, it was statistically significant.
And there were some hits that were like sort of impossible to, to describe in any other way.
And so I, I do think that, especially with like psychological stuff, this like the sigh as they
call it, that there's something there that, and it doesn't have to be like, like that it's woo-woo
or like magic. It's just, we don't even really understand consciousness or how consciousness
works. So it could just be something we don't understand, you know, it's like a sense that
we have that's incredibly rare that some people can tap into sometimes and, you know, see at a
distance in that we just, you know, simply don't understand what's going on there. And so that,
I think that's, that is pretty interesting and, and like could be real. But that's still pretty
far from like a psychic telling you about, you know, what went on in a past life or, yeah.
You think some people are just born with just like, like say there is another like parallel
dimension to us. Some people are just born with a better comprehension of that, or they can,
they can, they can see it more than other people can, or they have better access to it,
whether it is just like some sort of genetic thing with their, with their brain and with
something that we don't understand, like a genetic consciousness.
Maybe some are more predisposed to it, but with their whole remote viewing program
that the government was funding, the point of that one was, was that they could teach anyone to do
it. And that, so they would just teach people that didn't seem to have any ability. And that was
the point of it was that they could train what they called the psychic spies to, to like, it was
all to like spy on Russia, you know, during the Cold War. And then the Cold War ended,
they're like, well, we don't need to like spies anymore. And we also have, you know, satellites
that are better at it. So how many, how many people successfully did like,
were able to do remote viewing at one time? It was, it was a, it was an all right number.
There was like, you know, a handful that were really good at it, like that consistently pretty
good. But I'll, I'll, there's a great book just called Mind Reach. Mind Reach. Yeah. That's,
that is like, sort of details the program. And the guy who, one of the guys who ran it,
he lives in Austin, Texas. Really? Yeah. So I want to try and he's like, again,
another guy who's like 90 who I need to try and get before he. Dude, these like, these, these
films that you make, they had to take so long to make, especially with like David Huggins,
who said three years worth of them. I have similar experience doing stuff like that.
Before I started this, I was, I did a lot of like similar types of like docuseries stuff.
And, and my experience with it is like, just like you explained, like the first time you visit,
like the first time I visited this one group of local fishermen around here, I did a similar
documentary about commercial fishing and like the, the people, like the lowest level, like the deck
hands. And we met with the first guy and he was like, holy shit, we just like discovered another
universe. You know, we're going to go down this rabbit hole and we filmed for, we filmed it for
like six months. And then I sat on all that footage for like three years before I even
touched anything, started editing anything. Cause it was just such a daunting idea to edit and
package all of that shit. And eventually I don't know what it was, but I just like sat down and
started going through it. And then once I got like a certain percentage cut, I was like, okay,
now I can start like taking bites of this thing and eating the whole thing. Yeah. Like I, I sat
on the Huggins, my first Huggins footage for, for like four years. I didn't touch it. I didn't look
at it. I was just like, I can't like, I just can't motivate myself. I don't think it's going to be
good until I finally like a cut, just like a little thing out of it to show people. And then
that was the motivation to, to get into it. Like cut a little teaser and show people, get the,
like the real world excitement and then make it, it sort of makes it real. You know what I mean?
Put some music to it and then it's like, okay, now I'm going to do it. And that's, yeah, that's
basically also what I learned from, cause I worked in ad world too, before this and still kind of do.
And that was like a good skill to learn is like packaging something and
making a thing that people will actually watch without turning away.
Did you, now when you, when you come up with these ideas to film guys like this,
did you just sort of like have the idea and you want to like fund it yourself until you can
sort of like figure out how someone else can help you fund it and make it better?
Or do you just want to put it out on the internet and just see what happens?
Yeah, it depends. The great thing about docs, making docs is like you can just start.
It's always good to plan and think first, but you can, you can just, I can just go
with a camera and audio. It's not going to be great as good as it can be, but I can do something
that, that like with the D's thing that like we can put online. And you know, I didn't wait for
any funding for that one or anything, but then it did lead to, you know, interest in doing like a
bigger project out of that. So with the series, with the like the folklore series, yeah, we shot
that Mount Shasta thing as a little proof of concept, same with the crypto as well, just stuff.
I think you, you just sort of have to start because, similar like with the ad world, like
people aren't going to get behind something unless they can already just see it and see at least
a part of it, you know, and, and especially now you have to show people exactly what it's going to
look and feel like before you actually make it somehow. My, I don't, I have like a bad taste
in my mouth from that whole world just because like I've done a lot of like short documentaries
like you have, um, not recently, but when I did, like I would have, uh, production companies calling
me or like, you know, production companies that have deals with whatever network it is. And like,
Hey, uh, we like that. Uh, are you working on anything else similar to that? I just feel like
they're, they're fucking real estate brokers, you know, calling me just trying to make some money
on something cool. And it's the same thing with podcasts. Um, a lot of, there's like executives
working at production companies, just scouring podcasts, trying to find somebody to do a show
to sell to Netflix. Yeah. You know what I mean? It just feels just like a fucking,
it's gross, a car dealership. You know what I mean? It's pretty gross. Yeah. Gross. That's a good
word for it. Um, yeah, it's, it's the idea of bitter because I've never, I've never put a
documentary on Netflix. It's just sort of, it's treating it, you know, like disposable, like
consumer goods, you know, like just thinking of it as content as opposed to a story. Yeah. Yeah.
And anyways, I don't know where I was going with that, but, um, doing this was cool because it was
like, it was like doing the documentary, but it takes instead of three years, it takes three hours.
And I don't have to shoot any b-roll or add any music to it. Yeah. You know what I mean? And,
and also, yeah, you can, you've made, what, how many? Right. Exactly. Yeah. You can make hundreds
of them in a year, you know, not one in three years. And what's that? Oh, is it good now?
And also, you know, pitching to someone, hey, come into my studio for a few hours is a lot
easier for them to say yes to, then I'm going to be with you for three years of your life now.
Yeah, well, you don't have to tell them that in the beginning. True. You just be like, hey,
I just want to, can I come to you and film for a day or whatever? And then once I get to meet you,
I'm sure it's not, I'm sure it's easier for them to let you come back. Yeah. Like with David.
And so, well, I mean, what about you with all the guests that you've had and all of their
stories? Have you changed your mind on things or changed your beliefs on, on anything?
Like, as far as what? Oh, anything? Like, have you, like any beliefs that you had held that have now?
Um,
not really. I haven't really changed any of my beliefs. I don't like, I don't know. I don't
really have very many, like, beliefs that you could probably change for me. It's more, I'm more
of just like, open to learn. I've learned a lot. I could say that. I've learned a lot of things.
I've gotten better at, like, before I started doing this, like, I was similar to you. I would just
go out and like, and film something interesting, let the camera roll. And I would just try to, like,
package it into something like a cool music video that was weird to watch. You know what I mean?
And now it's sort of like, now I have to talk and like carry a conversation that's not edited.
So it's more of just me, like, building a skill and, like, learning, like, having discipline.
You know what I mean? To do, like, I make sure I do at least one or two of these a week.
And, you know, you get better at certain things. I've learned, learning a lot. I always, like,
kind of like, I always, I had this, like, inner war going on, whether I should just do these or
go make more documentaries, because the documentary is much more fun to watch than
fucking a podcast, you know? But, um... Well, what about when you see owls now, though?
Oh, I don't see owls. I never see owls. Aliens don't want anything to do with me.
Are there even owls in Tampa? I don't know. Yeah, there's a few. My mom has owls. My mom
sees owls all the time in her backyard. Okay. She's these little, like, these little tiny owls.
So my mom might, might have some sort of connection to, to aliens. Yeah. But, um, no, I don't know.
He was, like, I love having the conversations. Sure. I don't think I could say, I, I don't
want to say the guy's full of shit. You know, he could totally, everything he's saying could be
real to him. Um, but, you know, I don't really think about it that much after the conversation
either. Like, once you do the podcast, I don't, like, I don't dwell on it and, like, and think
about it a lot. I just kind of, like, I remember the conversation. I remember, like, the important
parts of it. I try to, I try to retain as much of it I can, as I can, and try to carry it into,
like, more conversations so I can just keep, like, learning more and so on and so forth and just
keep having, like, better conversations. I try to treat these like documentaries. I try to treat
these like little mini documentaries as best I possibly can. Yeah. So anyways, that's my story.
I'm sticking to it. You've had such a, like, a wild group of people. Yeah. Yeah. Just look at the list.
No, nothing's consistent. It's not very consistent at all, especially when I'm trying to, like,
pitch, like, a legitimate person on here who's not, like, any of, like, the crazy fringe ideas,
cultures. You know what I mean? Like, a, like, a, there's one guy I had on here who's, like, a,
he's a doctor, like, a nutritional doctor, scientist. And then, you know, typically,
when I try to reach out to people, I should, like, show my credibility. Look, I've interviewed,
yeah, well, put aside, they're all criminals and conspiracy theorists, you know. So it's that,
it gets weird sometimes when you're trying to talk to new people. Yeah. That's happened to me
as well. Like, with really, where they're like, they'll go look on my website and be like, oh,
you interview wackos. Yeah. Right. Right. No, I'm not gonna be in your film. Yeah. The consistency
is the biggest thing for me. I was just trying to, you know, remain consistent to it. And
there's a book about it, too, that I really like. I can't, the name is, the War of Art.
Okay. Have you heard of that? No. No, I haven't. It's, it's all about the guy's name is Steven.
His last name is escaping me. Anyways, it's about, he's a writer. And he just talks about,
like, confronting the muse, you know what I mean? Confront, confronting resistance, right? Like,
the muse is a thing you get all your creativity from and like flows through you and just,
your connection with, with, with that, with your creativity is hindered by resistance.
Resistance can be anything, whether it be like eating or checking your emails, going on your
phone, playing video games, watching movies or whatever. And it's like, the resistance is the
one thing that stands in the way of you and the muse. So like every single day, if you're a creative
person, the last thing you want to do is like, get up and go to work in the morning every day,
the same time and have a routine. So his whole thing is, you know, always sit down every day
and do your work, whether you, whether you feel good or bad or creative or dry, you know, always
sit down and, you know, put in the time every single day. And that's, that's what you have to do.
You know, that's what creativity is, is, is being consistent and being disciplined
into it and putting the time into your craft. Yeah. You know what I mean? And I was never
like that before. I would just be like, inspirate, I have to be inspired to do something. So even when
you're not inspired, when you don't have, feel that calling, that, that pull, you know what I
mean? When you don't feel that, still sit down and push. So that's what I gain. You know, I've
made the connections between doing this and that. Yeah. I mean, that's always been my problem.
And it's still my biggest problem is, is not forcing myself or displaying myself to work.
I have to be excited. And then that's why things take years. Yeah. The resistance fucks you up,
man. The resistance, you'll grow old and fucking look back and just be like, God damn. Yeah. You
know, I also feel like sometimes looking back, like in, like in my early to mid twenties, like
that was like, like, man, that was the most creative time of my life. Like, so I'm like made
some of the coolest shit or did some of like the coolest I ever did. And I always wonder if that,
if that sort of like connection to the muse, whatever you want to call it, if that dwindles
the older you get, you know what I mean? Your connection gets worse and worse and worse. The
reception goes down. I mean, even Hunter S. Thompson, I don't know if you've ever seen his,
he had a schedule. He like his, his sort of daily schedule and even, you know, it, which included
all the drugs that he would consume. Yeah. But even he had this set block of time where he would
write no matter what. Really? Yeah. And no matter how fucked up he was, he would sit. Really? Yeah.
And it would end up being at like, you know, midnight or three in the morning or something.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've, I've, I've actually, he, he's fascinating. I've been wanting to like
go down the rabbit hole of his story and his documentaries. I just haven't done it yet.
Yeah. He was a fan of Florida. Was he? I think he spent some time in the keys.
Did he really? Oh, the key. Have you ever been to the keys? You're going there right now?
We're going there tomorrow. Yeah. For a month. What are you doing there? I got invited to an,
an artist's residency. So, so basically they, they give me an apartment and a studio and
to just, and a, and like a bicycle. And for a month and like, it's just a space for me to,
to work on whatever without, what I want to work on without any distractions of like home.
Really? Family and yeah. Yeah. So what are you going to do? I'm just going to like write,
work on a movie, like a screenplay idea, work on these docs, like researching, editing.
Yeah. I'm writing a podcast episode for, for the QAnon Anonymous guys. Oh, really? Yeah.
It's going to be on Mount Shasta about the, yeah, the T-Lex breast story. So just work on all of that
or not, or just, you know, are there, I've never listened to their podcast. Is it like one of
those produced podcasts with like music and editing? Okay. Yeah. I love those podcasts.
They have, and they're like serialized, right? Like they, they tell stories like through
episodes. Yeah. Sometimes they, they'll be multi parts, but, but actually usually it's just like,
you know, they'll get into, you know, some character and the conspiracy verse. And that's what,
you know, it's all about. Yeah. Those podcasts are awesome. Yeah. But they focus. It's just
conspiracy theories. Those, the keys is a fucking crazy place, dude. Crazy. You've never been?
I've gone for like, when I was a kid and then I went like a couple of days some years ago,
but never really got to experience the craziness of the keys. When I was, I think 19 years old,
like when I first started between like 17 and 18 and 19, I was like, that's when I first started
doing like, like picking up a video camera and making money with it. And I got hired by a really
big real estate company who owned a lot of like resorts and marinas and the keys. And through
knowing somebody, they hired me to do video tours of all of their resorts and marinas and they
owned apartment buildings everywhere. And like, not apartments, but like the condo buildings. Yeah.
So I was going to like big houses, condos, all these things all over the keys by myself with a
little Canon GL2. And I was there for, I think two and a half months when I was like 19 years old,
by myself, they gave me like a little hotel room. You know, I would start in each town. So I'd
start in Key Largo, go to Isle of Morada, Marathon, the down to Key West eventually. And I was by
myself the whole time living in these tiny little hotel room. And I had to give me a per diem of
like 60 bucks a day. And I would save it. And I bought, I got a little, I brought my speargun with
me. And every night I would go, I would swim under the bridges because there's bridges,
it's fucking bridges everywhere, dude, like, like every mile there's a bridge. And I would swim
under the bridges at night and I would shoot lobster illegally. And I would, I would, I would
rip the tails off underwater because it's so illegal to do this. And I'd rip the tails off
underwater and stuff my board shorts, pockets with lobster tails. And I go to Publix and buy
corn, canned corn. And I would bake the lobster tails, eat lobster tails and corn every fucking
night, dude. I've saved so much money. That was, that was an amazing adventure. But Key West
specifically is a wild, is a crazy fucking town. Yeah. I just imagine, I mean,
a lot of drug running history. Oh yeah.
Tons. And some like Cuban history. And I hear there's still a lot of illegal, like,
cock fighting. Oh really? Going on there. Yeah, I wouldn't put it past them. Yeah.
Yeah. A lot of crazy shit down there. It's a fun place to, it's a fun place to party. A lot of
college kids go down there and get fucked up. You should have, did you see Square Grouper?
That Billy Corbett's documentary? It's been a while. It's been a while. Yeah, I've seen it.
You should have this guy on, he lives in Everglade City, Dave Shealy. He was in, I don't know if
you saw my short about the Skunkape, which is South Florida's Bigfoot. Yeah. Did you see that?
Yeah. What was that? Was that like Vice or something? No. Maybe, no, no. I think maybe you
saw something else. I just had a guy in here like three weeks ago who lives in Everglades,
in the Everglades. He was like a big weed pot hauler guy. Was that Dave Shealy? No, his name
wasn't Dave Shealy. Oh, okay. The fuck was his name? Why am I forgetting his name? Let me look
it up real quick. Hold on. If you, what the fuck? I feel like such an idiot for not remembering his
name. This guy. Tim McBride. Can I see his photo? Yeah. I don't know him, but he lives in Everglade
City. Google, Google, this is like a bad photo. Just Google Tim McBride. Yeah, he was like one
of the biggest pot haulers in Florida and he has a really long prison sentence.
So Dave Shealy did that stuff as well, but he's also. Tim McBride type in saltwater cowboy after
that. This guy. Oh. Vice did a thing on him. He was like Hulk Hogan. Yeah.
Yeah, so Dave Shealy is kind of like this guy except he also, he has what's called the Skunk
Ape Research Headquarters. Yeah, you, I've seen this. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to say it was on
Vice I saw. I don't remember where I saw it online, but I didn't make the connection that you did it.
Okay. Yeah, yeah. And so, so he, he had that history of like drug hauling in Everglade City
and he also is like styled himself as the foremost researcher of the Skunk Ape
in the Everglades. So he's like a, he considers himself a cryptozoologist and goes out there.
Oh, really? And he has his campground out there. That's, that's pretty, pretty weird. He's just,
he's, oh yeah, he's a character that be super fun. Are you going to talk to him when you're
way down there? No, no, no. He, yeah, he, I haven't chatted with him since I filmed with him.
I'm not sure what he would have thought of the documentary. Maybe he'd like it, but yeah,
he's kind of a scary guy. Is he really a little bit? Yeah. What, why is he scared?
She's got like those eyes that like, those sort of like cold blue eyes that like,
you know, could murder you if you say the wrong thing. Yeah. There's a, there's just a ton of
fucking, there's a ton of history in here in this area of like big time cocaine and weed
pot traffickers. You know what I mean? Like, like just like, I know a lot of people who are in like
their fifties and sixties who were just, just around here that I know who were like,
gone, went to prison for a long time for smuggling cocaine, like a long, like just randomly,
like I'll just find out, like I didn't even know, like you, I was interviewing,
you know who Manny Pwig is? He's like the wild, here's seen wild boys on MTV. I've heard of it,
yeah. So he was like, he's like the guy who, who swims down with like the giant 15 foot
crocodile alligators and like levitates them. Like he puts them into like a catatonic state
underwater. And then he like, go, he like rides, he was the first guy to ride a giant
great hammerhead shark. Just a crazy guy. And he's originally, he still lives in Florida. He was on
here. And I was talking to another guy who went to prison for, I had a guy in the podcast,
he was in prison for 10 years for smuggling coke. He's like, Oh man, he quit. I bet I'm in prison.
Yeah. He used to be a pot hauler. So it's just like this fraternity of drug smugglers in Florida
because Miami was such a fucking, oh yeah, a global hub for it. Built Miami. Yeah. Yeah. It was
just like a, like a retirement resort, basically until it's insane. The cocaine came through.
Yeah. It's fucking insane. Have you seen that new cocaine cowboys documentary or the
real or the latest one on Netflix? You know, I just, no, I just saw the original. Yeah. Yeah.
The original was pretty good. He's a weird way of making documentaries. Yeah. Yeah. Cheesy way.
Yeah. He did, he did that once. Is it called screwball? Screwball. I haven't seen that. Yeah.
I mean, either where it's like kids that are, yeah. It's portrayed the whole thing. Yeah.
You know, who's another really interesting guy that I want to fucking meet? I know people,
he lives in Miami. One of my favorite filmmakers is Harmony Kareen. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He,
there was this, this kind of pirate 35 millimeter movie theater in Miami for a while called Night
Owl that was in a half abandoned shopping mall and Harmony Kareen's office, like his production
office was right above it. And he would sometimes like come and curate. Oh, really? There. Yeah.
Wow. Yeah. Dude, he's, he's got some, have you seen Beach Bum? Oh, yeah.
Fucking amazing. That's Key West. I don't know if they actually shot any of it in Key West. Oh,
yeah, they did. Oh, they did. Oh, yeah. You can tell a lot of it's in the key. I don't know if it's
Key West specifically that I could remember, but a lot of it's definitely in the keys. Some of it
looked like California, but really? Yeah, some of it did. Was it, maybe it was shot in California.
It looked like it was all Miami in the keys. It would make sense if it was, if it was Florida.
Because he lives there, right? Yeah. He lives in Miami. Yeah. I'm, I'm pretty sure he still lives
here. Yeah. A friend of mine, a friend of mine who's a, like an underwater cinematographer who
lives in Key Biscayne. He says his kid goes to the same school as Harmony from Miami. Oh, okay.
This was two years ago. I think you told me that. Yeah, yeah. But I'm sure he has to still live there.
Yeah. He's like, he's one of those weird guys. You don't like hear anything from him or see
anything from him in the media at all. Just like every 10 years he comes out with some crazy film.
Yeah. There used to be this, this film organization in Miami called Borscht
and, and Harmony would do some curation with them, but he never showed up. He would never
just be there. Yeah. He was like behind the scenes. He seems like the kind of guy who would do
what you're about to do in the keys. Just go like sit in a empty apartment for a month and write
shit. Except he wouldn't need to be invited to that residency. He'd just be able to buy it.
Right. He would just do it himself. Yeah. So are you supplementing all of this creative work with
like commercial jobs? Kind of. Yeah. I do, I do like docs for clients and like branded docs,
you know, the buzzword branded docs. Yeah. So it's, it's like, you know, sponsored by Old Spice
or like Alaska Airlines will want like a doc style thing or like I did one for Amazon and
Gates Foundation. Yeah. The deep state. Exactly. Amazon. I love that guy's Jeff Bezos.
David's Jeff Bezos picture. Yeah. That he was working on as we were. Didn't make any sense,
but it was funny. Yeah. No, all of it was just so absurd, but hilarious at the same time. Yeah.
Man, it's so sad that guy died. I wonder what happened to all of his artwork. They should
turn it into NFTs. They, I mean, he would have made a killing. He would have made a, and he was
so poor. Like he was just in debt living in a trailer, basically like a double wide trailer,
like poverty level. And yeah, he could have, I don't think he ever would have been able to figure
it out. Like he wasn't that savvy online. Some would have had to do it all for him.
But this other conspiracy theorist that like lives down the road from him,
who's like a bigger conspiracy theorist, he, he inherited all of David's like intellectual
property. Really? He's got everything. He was even selling like David's shirts
and like hats and stuff after he died. A little weird. That is a lot of strange. Yeah.
Is there, is there like one subject or person that you would want to
document or do a story on like a, like a fucking holy grail for Brad?
No, no, it's always like every day is just kind of a new, a new discovery and a new thing.
So I kind of want to make one about the man a sphere, you know, like, like,
there's, you know, like there's this whole sort of sphere of like men's rights activists,
men and nests. They're called like men going their own way who like have said no to all
women in relationships and cells. And there was a conference in Orlando called the make women
great again conference. And it was, and no women were involved in that. It was just these,
these like men's rights activists, guys who were going to teach women how to be great again.
That whole world seems, seems like basically it's just like, and how it, how it has exploded with the
sort of far right conspiracy world too. There's a lot of intersection there. That would be
a really interesting and dark one to dive into. Yeah, it's scary. Yeah. The whole, the, I haven't
seen the incel thing you were talking about, but those, those types of people are, they seem
like the most dangerous ones. They're the ones that just like blow up, shoot fucking schools up and
shit. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it would only be like, it wouldn't focus just on those guys, but like,
like that whole world seems kind of ripe for, for getting into. It's, it's interesting. Like the
whole QAnon thing, I always thought it was like far right wing, ideologically. Now it's the whole
spectrum. Yeah. There's like yoga moms is a big part of QAnon and, and hippies, you know, like
ayahuasca slinging. See, I had no idea. Yeah. Yeah. Like vegans. It's like, it's captured everyone.
Yeah. That's so wild. I had a guy, I have a guy on here who's a lawyer and he's like a hardcore
liberal. Okay. I wouldn't say like hardcore. He doesn't like go out like flaunting it. Like most
people flaunt their rebel flags, but he, he has this obsession with representing like the most
extreme polar opposite of himself. Oh, wow. Like, like he's representing one of the Capitol riot
people. One of the guys who was on the Capitol on January 6th, like the guy assaulted a police
officer and he's like, he's like defending him in court. And he also, he's like defended like
serial killers. He's invited like invited them into his home because they had nothing else. Like
neo-nazis who's who have killed people like killed people just because they were black,
represented these people and just like gotten into their heads and like spent so much time with
them. It's just like so interesting. I mean, maybe people want to do that. Like this guy, I'm like,
dude, like you need a video camera. You gotta be a fucking filmmaker, not a lawyer, but he's got
way more money than most documentary filmmakers. Yeah, it's weird. It's weird. There's a lot of
that stuff around in Florida. Yeah. Oh yeah. Crazy shit, man. Well, thanks for doing this,
dude. I really appreciate it. Where, where can people follow the stuff that you do online and
find more of your work and do anything they came to support you? Yeah, I have a website,
it's bradabrahams.net and then on Instagram, I'm bradwtf and on Twitter, I'm lovin' saucers.
That's it. Your Twitter is lovin' saucers. Yeah. Yeah. I made it for the film and then it's just
become my personal Twitter. Oh really? That's the one more thing I wanted to ask you. What did
you do to, I bought it on YouTube. Is that, how else are you distributing that one? That one,
it used to be on Amazon Prime and now Discovery, you know, there's Discovery Plus now, Discovery
Channel is around. So now they have the sort of rights to that for streaming. So you have to,
you can buy it on Amazon or iTunes or YouTube or, I think on Tubi, it's free. You can just watch it.
Well, we want people to pay for it. I still get money from it if they watch it on Tubi,
because there's ads. Oh really? Oh, sick. Yeah. Okay. So, but yeah, like any streaming service,
it's on and it's like four bucks to rent it. It's one of the best documentaries I've ever seen.
Thank you. Thanks for creating amazing content like that, dude. You're welcome.
Fucking awesome. Yeah, of course. Goodbye world.
