First of all, thank you for doing this.
Sure.
I appreciate you being here.
I know it took a while for us to make this happen, and I apologize that this is my second
podcast with no air conditioning, but hopefully we can make it work with a fan back there.
I added in a book about all four assassinations of the 60s, which of course is JFK, King,
Bobby Kennedy, and Malcolm X.
That's called The Assassinations.
My two previous books, one is called Destiny Betrayed, and that's essentially about New
Orleans and the JFK case.
My other book is called The JFK Assassination, The Evidence Today.
That book is really an extended critique of Vincent Bugliosi's book, Reclaiming History.
If you recall, that has to be one of the longest books ever written.
If you combine the actual text with the footnotes section and the resource notes section, that
book is over 2,500 pages.
I figured that nobody was actually going to read the whole thing and actually review
the whole thing, so I decided to go ahead and do it because I knew since Bugliosi had
such a big name, he's passed away now, of course, that he would get some press notices.
I also knew that these press notices were not going to be based on the book because
no reviewer is going to read 2,500 pages about the Kennedy assassination.
I decided to take that on myself because I didn't want it to become any kind of standard
in the field.
That's what that book is really about.
It's a critique of his book, Reclaiming History.
Vincent Bugliosi was also a notorious psychopath and a liar.
How many people know him, that side of him?
His book about the Manson murders, obviously, I learned that from Tom O'Neill who did Chaos,
the book about him and basically how he hired writers to come to the court hearings and
everything like that, and he's a very spotty past.
I had met with Tom previously because of my work on Bugliosi.
In my book on Bugliosi, I had never read Halter Skelter before, but since I was going
to do this very long overview of Bugliosi's career, I had to read that book.
When I read that book for the first time, I couldn't believe it.
I could not believe that the whole mainstream media had fallen for what seemed to me to
be a very incomplete story about that whole incident.
At the very least, it was incomplete.
This is what made Bugliosi's career.
I had to deal with it, and I deal about 20 pages in my book.
I deal with that whole Halter Skelter, Tate LaBianca murder thing.
That was my last book before this book.
I guess I should talk about how this started.
I gave a speech in 2013 in Pittsburgh about not really about the Kennedy assassination,
but it was about John Kennedy.
Rob Wilson, who was the producer of this film, and Oliver Stone, who was the director of
this film, JFK Revisited, they were there.
Oliver was not there when I gave, he's not physically there in person on the day that
I gave the speech, but Rob Wilson was there.
Several years later, my publisher, Tony Lyons, got in contact at Sky Horse, got in contact
with Oliver because he wanted them to do an introduction to revised version of the JFK
assassination he evidenced today.
So I went down to his office to give him some ideas, and Rob was there, and he brought up
the speech I had given, and Oliver said, I didn't see that, and I go, no, I don't think
you were there, that was Sunday that I actually gave that speech, and I said it got a really
rousing ovation, and it actually did.
I wasn't exaggerating at all.
So a few weeks later, Rob Wilson calls me up and said, bring down that PowerPoint speech
that you gave in Pittsburgh.
Oliver wants to see it.
So I brought it down, and I showed it to Oliver, and that sort of kind of sealed the deal.
Okay, he said, let's go ahead and do a documentary on this, all right?
And so that's what happened, and Rob was a producer, and I was the writer, and Oliver
was a director, and that's how JFK Revisited started, okay, which is a fascinating documentary.
I just rewatched it.
Right, the documentary.
Right.
There's a four-hour version, which is called JFK Destiny Betrayed.
In this book that we're going to talk about, it has both scripts, plus it has something
that I think is really, really important.
The reason that this documentary created such, you know, no JFK documentary ever had the
impact this thing has had, it's still going, okay, to this day, all right?
And it's because we interviewed almost, I think, 30 people for the film, and this book
has a lot of those interviews that did not make it into the film, because we had 48 hours
of interviews, all right, and like I said, there's a two-hour version, a four-hour version,
so there's no way everything was going to get into the movie.
How do you see the four-hour version?
Is that available?
Okay, yes, it is.
It's called JFK Destiny Betrayed.
Okay, it's a different one.
So if you want to know how this happened, how we ended up with two versions.
Originally, what I wrote was a three-hour script.
That's what my contract was for, a three-hour script, but Oliver really, really liked the
Kennedy stuff.
Okay, there's two parts to the film.
There's a stuff about the assassination, and there's a stuff about Kennedy's foreign policy.
Why he got assassinated.
Right, and that's supposed to be, like Oliver said, that's supposed to be the motive behind
the assassination, and I think we did a good job on that part.
Okay, I'm actually very proud of that, because hardly anybody has ever talked about, for
example, JFK in Indonesia or JFK in the Middle East, but we did get it into this film.
So when we submitted the film, it ended up being four hours instead of three.
So then Oliver showed it to this German financier, Morris, I think his name is Morris Borman
or something like that, and he said, you know, I like it, but you should actually do a two-hour
version for, in case some broadcast network only wants to do it in one night.
Okay.
So that's how it came into a four-hour version and a two-hour version.
Now the four-hour version is actually played, for example, in Australia.
They played the whole four hours, all right, and we really had a big impact in Australia.
They did three major stories in the newspapers about the film, and in Australia, because
it's one country in the continent, the newspapers cover the whole country, you know, 40 million
people, then, then they got me, they wanted to do a television interview with me, okay,
and they drove me down to Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood, these studios they were running
from the BBC, and Channel 9 had me on their program, and then I talked to somebody later
about this, and he goes, Jim, you were on Channel 9, and I said, yeah, he goes, Jim,
that's the biggest network in Australia.
Over a million people could have seen you.
I go, oh, okay, I didn't know that.
Then I got on in this vestia out of Moscow, okay, and they did an interview with me also.
We also made the cover of Paris Match, which is one of the biggest magazines in France,
650,000 circulation, I think.
So the impact this film has had is, for a JFK documentary, it's really, really unprecedented,
and I firmly believe that it's because we got so many distinguished experts into this
film that it's not, that has never been done before, where you have people like Henry Lee,
people like Cyril Wecht, people like Jeff Morley, like Gary Aguilar, et cetera, you'll
never see a roster of luminaries in one JFK film.
It's never happened before, and I don't think it'll ever happen again, simply because nobody's
going to pay that kind of money, which we did, flying these people in from all over.
In fact, what happened is we had so many people that it ended up being cheaper to go to them
than to fly them into LA.
So what we did is we went, for example, to Georgetown, okay, we rented a whole floor
of a hotel, and we flew in everybody on the East Coast that we were going to interview.
Then we went to Dallas, got another hotel floor, flew in everybody from the Midwest
and the West that we were going to interview.
We went to New Orleans, we went to San Francisco, and then we did a reshoot in LA, okay.
Now, when this started...
Were you there for everyday of filming with Oliver?
Yes.
Wow.
Okay.
When this started, Oliver was only going to do a few interviews, and that's actually
what he said when we talked about going ahead with the film.
It ended up, Oliver did about 80% of the...
I give him a lot of credit for that.
He did most...
The overwhelming majority of the interviews himself, what we would do is I would write
the questions, okay, then wherever we were, he would call me into either his office or
his hotel suite, we would go over the questions, and then he would do the interviews.
I think that really helped the film because, like for example, Henry Lee, he brought his
wife, I think we shot him in Dallas, okay, and during that whole on-camera interview,
his wife was running around taking pictures of him being interviewed by Oliver Stone,
you know, like this was a big deal.
I guess maybe it is for a lot of people, you know, and so, and I think that really...
And by the way, let me say another thing about this.
Oliver did...
I give him all the credit in the world.
He did a lot of work to sell this thing, okay?
And in fact, it was him going to the Con Film Festival, all right, that...
And you can see that, by the way, on YouTube when I introduce him at the Con Film Festival.
This huge amphitheater, like 2,000 people, and he gets a standing ovation, okay?
And it was because of that Con Film Festival that he went there personally to promote the
film.
That's what I think really allowed it to be sold.
I think it's been sold in 11 countries now, okay?
And he did a lot of interviews.
He did...
He was doing like three interviews a day for about a month, okay?
And that's what I think really kind of gave it the impact, for example, when he got back
from Con, we knew that we weren't going to get the MSM to really seriously discuss or
debate the film.
Why did you know that?
Because they don't like Oliver.
They like to put it mildly, okay?
They essentially trashed his feature film JFK, but you're on TV in other countries.
Yes, yes, but we knew we weren't going to get it in America.
So what Oliver did was he went around the MSM.
For example, he did an interview on RT with Barry McCaffrey about the film.
That got a million views, all right?
And so he kept on doing that.
And I thought the MSM was just going to ignore us, all right?
But the fact that he kept on doing all these interviews and that he came off extremely
well in these interviews, okay, that's when the MSM brought out the heavy guns and started
blasting us, which I didn't think they were going to do, but they did.
Like Tim Wiener in The Rolling Stone, Max Booth in The Washington Post, okay?
There was also Air Mail, a guy named James Kerchick did a hatchet job on us, okay?
And we replied to them.
And I challenged James Kerchick to a debate, all right?
If you're going to attack us, why don't you get out from behind your computer and let's
go ahead and then, you know what he did?
He blocked me.
He doesn't want any part of me, okay?
And so that's, I was really kind of surprised that happened.
And I guess that is actually kind of in a weird way a good thing because they actually
had to notice us, all right, which I didn't think that they were going to do.
But like I said, Oliver did so many of these interviews, I did a few, but he did many, many
more than I did, okay?
And that's what made them come out of the woodwork.
And to this day, as we're doing this interview right now, when the DVD went on sale, which
I think was about a month ago.
You guys actually sold DVDs, wow.
Yeah, the DVD is a combination of both the two-hour and the four-hour version, and me
and Oliver did a commentary over the two-hour version.
Oh, wow.
It was number one for three weeks, and then this week, it dropped down to number four,
okay?
So in other words, people really wanted to see this thing in its whole entirety, you
know, and Shout Factory, which they did a very nice job putting it together.
So from when the film broke, which was in November, okay?
Was it November?
You know, it was in July of last year.
See, this is what's so exceptional about this.
If you know anything about the movie business, from when a film premieres to when it goes
to sale to public in the DVD version, that's usually what they call a six-month window.
Well, our film had like an 11-month window until it went to DVD, okay?
Which is really, really something, and by the way, it's still on Showtime.
I think they have the contract up until the end of this year.
Oh, really?
It's only one year?
No, it's more than one year.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, and so they're still going to show it.
So the success of this film, as far as a documentary on the JFK goes, it's unprecedented.
And like I said, I believe it's because of all the people that we had in it.
And like I said, and we still have these excerpts in the book.
So if you're really interested in seeing the rest of what these people said, and some
of it is really, we had so much great stuff that we, by necessity, had to keep some of
it out.
But like, for example, the interview with Henry Lee.
For people who are listening who don't know who he is, who is Henry Lee?
Okay, Henry Lee is probably the most famous criminalist in the United States, maybe in
the world.
Okay.
Okay.
He is, testifies at all kinds of trials.
He's a specialist in what he calls reconstructing the crime, okay, from the elements that he
has.
Okay.
And then he puts together what he believes happened.
He's world famous.
He used to be a captain in Taiwan, came to the United States, went to NYU, and he became
this world famous criminalist.
All right.
He, about the Kennedy assassination, he told Oliver, he said, look, in about 70 to 80 percent
of the cases I study, I can render an opinion, about 10 percent, okay, I can only give what
they call a partial, all right.
And then in the rest, I just can't give an opinion.
In the Kennedy assassination, that was the case.
I can't give an opinion.
And the reason I can't give an opinion is because this autopsy material is one of the
worst I've ever seen.
Okay.
It's completely, it's qualitatively and quantitatively.
It's one of the worst autopsies I've ever seen.
And by the way, a student of his, because he has his college up in New Haven, okay,
got online and said, at one of the first classes he was at, Henry Lee went off on the Kennedy
autopsy for 20 minutes on how bad it was.
It was almost like how not to conduct an autopsy, all right.
And so he said that he just couldn't render an opinion.
And then he commented, and this is in the book, he says, you have this bullet coming
in from a right to left angle in Kennedy's skull, the back of his skull.
And then it comes out this angle, okay, left to right, out of his front temple.
And Oliver asked him, well, what kind of an angle is that?
So that's, that's like a 90 degree angle.
And he just sat there and he goes, you know, like, it was something that, that was really
kind of very bizarre to him.
And remember, this guy has seen so many gunshot homicide cases.
I think he said about a thousand, okay.
But this was very, very bizarre to him, this case, okay.
And so that was a very interesting interview that he did with us.
And then we have people like Brian Edwards, who was a police investigator for like 22
years in Lawrence, Kansas.
And today he teaches criminal justice.
And he talked about how he was a sniper.
He was on a sniper detail, a SWAT team, okay.
And he said, look, every time you shoot from a high to low angle, which is what is in the
Kennedy case, because I was also supposed to be on the sixth floor of the Texas School
Book Depository firing downward.
He goes, you're going to miss the first shot, okay, because it's going to be too high.
Okay.
It's, it's, it's very difficult.
Any sniper will tell you, all right, that this is one of the most difficult shots that
there is.
All right.
And then he talked about how he had been a witness in many, many cases.
All right.
And a very serious problem in the Kennedy case is chain at what we call chain of custody,
which means, and by the way, Henry Lee did a nice job on this also, okay, how it begins
at the scene of the crime, goes to the police headquarters and comes into court.
Why, why is the chain of custody so important?
Because if you don't have a good chain of custody on evidence, it leaves a defense wide
open to attack you because what that signifies, and they said this, that either somebody altered
the evidence or somebody could have substituted the evidence if you can't account for every
step in the chain.
And so in the Kennedy case, for example, there is no brain, Kenny's brain is gone.
It disappeared somewhere around in 1965 or 1966.
And nobody can account for it.
All right.
And why is that important because?
You say his brain disappeared, what do you mean by that?
It's not in the National Archives.
They talk about a brain being preserved in formaldehyde, like a fully intact brain.
That's what you have to do.
Now I'm glad you brought that up.
See what you're supposed to do if you're doing a gunshot autopsy with one of the gunshots
to the head, okay, you're supposed to go ahead and preserve the brain, okay, in what you
just said, a formaldehyde solution.
And what that does, and Cyril Weck talks about this in the film, okay, what that does, it
makes the brain more solid so you can do what they call serial sectioning.
And you do that in one of two ways, like either a bread loaf like this or a pie cut like this.
Now, why do you do that?
Because, and Michael Chesser talks about this also in the film, he's a neurologist, because
that's the way that you track the bullet path through the brain, okay, you can see it more
clearly, all right, and if there's more than one bullet, also you can find that.
Well, Kennedy's brain disappeared.
The only record, the actual record we have of it, which is very odd, it comes in at 1500
grams.
Now, why do I say that that's odd?
Because the average brain weight, and they did a Dutch study of this, about 8,000 specimens,
is about 1350 grams.
That's the average brain weight.
So the question becomes like 2.9 pounds or something, yes, a little bit under three
pounds.
So the question then becomes, how is Kennedy's brain way more, when as anybody can see in
the Zapruder film, that Kennedy's head gets blasted, blood and tissue, you know, in the
air, okay, all over Jackie Kennedy, all over the back seat, okay, and all over, you know,
flying around Dealey Plaza, all right, and when the doctors and nurses came out to the
car, there's pictures of the car, and it's blasted, okay, with debris out the back.
And so how can Kennedy's brain weigh more than the average, when everybody can see the
damage of that head shot, okay?
Now in the film and in the book, we talk because I firmly believe that today, this is the best
evidence, okay, that there was a conspiracy to kill JFK.
Because John Stringer, when he testified before the assassination's record review board, which
was the body set up after Oliver's film came out to declassify all the documents on the
JFK case, and also to pursue an inquiry into the medical evidence, when he was shown the
pictures that he was supposed to have taken of Kennedy's brain, he was the autopsy photographer
that night.
He said, he walked up to the pictures because Jeremy Gunn, the chief counsel, had them hanging
from a, you know, a holder.
He walked up and he said, this is Ansko, that's a type of film, I didn't use Ansko, okay,
can you see these numbers here at the bottom?
That means they were in a press pack, they were taken seriously, I didn't do that, okay?
And so Jeremy Gunn then asked him, he said, are you ready to deny you took these pictures?
And he goes, if that's Ansko, and that's a press pack, I didn't take these pictures,
okay?
So this was, this is what you call courtroom evidence, okay?
Because if you're going to present pictures or an illustration, it's part of the tenets
of the law that whoever took the picture of the illustration has to certify to the court
that that's what he took.
This gets back to chain of custody, all right?
And so he said, no, that's Ansko film.
By the way, by the end of the interview, he did say it was Ansko, because he used Kodak.
Okay.
All right.
And so he didn't take the pictures.
And in the film, we talk about this, you know, who might have taken them, okay?
And between that, between the brain weight, okay, and the fact that there appears to be
a front to back shot, okay?
And we talk about this in the long version of the film, because there's a little dust-like
particles in the front, and the larger fragments are towards the middle of the brain or the
back of the brain.
That detains, that kind of denotes a front shot, okay?
So this is very important.
And we got even more of it in the book than we did into the film, all right?
It's very important evidence, I believe.
One of the most, one of the, like, the backbone of this whole conspiracy is the Warren Commission
is doing everything they possibly can to stick to the three-bullet theory.
Why were they, why were they trying to stick to that?
Why were they so, like, it doesn't seem like it would make that much of a difference if
there was another bullet.
Yeah, that's correct.
The Warren Commission says that only three bullets were fired, all right?
Why couldn't they have just said, okay, there was four?
Because there were only three shells found at the scene of the crime, okay?
And so they had to do that, all right?
Because if there's more, that, if so fact, though, denotes a conspiracy, because you
only got three shells, okay, you only can have three bullets.
And so if you, if you said it was four shots, and by the way, they actually said this, Norman
Redlich actually said this, okay?
If we don't have the single bullet theory, then it denotes a conspiracy, all right?
Now let me talk about, from before you could do that, it just seems like from my perspective,
it would be way easier and way less trouble to say, yeah, we don't know where the fourth
bullet shell is than to, on the other hand, have to deal with this whole magic bullet
debacle.
That seems like more of a problem than it would be just to say, oh, there's a fourth
bullet shell we can't find, we don't know.
That's an interesting question, because the FBI, and we talk about this in the film, they
had a different version of the three bullets, okay?
They said all three bullets hit the car, inside of the car, the automobile.
They didn't have a single bullet theory, okay?
And I think we should explain what the single bullet theory is.
The single bullet theory says that one projectile went through Kennedy, emerged out of his throat,
and into Connelly, through his back, out his right chest, smashed, by the way, a decimated
one of his ribs, it then smashed his wrist, his right wrist, and then somehow went this
way into his left thigh, okay?
And which they tested this theory on cadavers, right?
By shooting cadavers.
Right.
And it never duplicated the same result.
No, see, the amazing thing about this is that after going through all that, the one
commission said that this bullet, which is called Commission Exhibit 399, emerged pretty
much intact, and anybody can see it, and we show it in the film, all right, that is pretty
much intact.
In fact, it's only missing something like three or four grains, not grams, you know,
grains, all right?
And if you look at it, it doesn't look like it hit anything, all right?
And we have Joseph Dolce, who was one of the doctors who worked for the Warren Commission,
but they didn't want to talk to him, all right?
And he said, look, we test-fired dozens of bullets in the cadavers, okay?
None of them came out looking like this.
And he was a surgeon during World War II.
And he said, in my opinion, it's not possible, okay, for something like this to happen.
Now, they said that you had one single bullet going through two people.
You had one that completely missed the car, hit the curb, bounced up and hit this bystander
named James Teg, you know, bloodying his face.
And the third bullet is the headshot, okay?
So we're supposed to believe that two bullets hit Kennedy, okay, pretty much where a sniper
would want to hit him.
And this other shot completely missed the car.
And in fact, Teg was sitting on Comer Street, which is a different street than what Kennedy
was on Elm Street.
So you have this one bullet that completely missed the car, completely missed the street,
hit a curb and bounced up and hit James Teg, a bystander.
Now, the FBI did not want to believe that because they thought the single bullet theory
was absurd, which I think most people would agree.
So Hoover, who they had at the FBI at that time, he did everything he could to cover
up the James Teg hit.
He denied it that it ever happened, you know, for years, okay?
And then they actually kind of cemented over the curb, okay, where the bullet struck, all
right?
And sadly, the FBI wanted that to go away, all right?
And so this ended up being a dispute between the FBI and the Warren Commission, all right?
The Warren Commission figured we can't cover up the James Teg thing anymore because there's
too many people talking about it in Dallas.
So what we have to do is to stay with the three shells.
We have to make up this magic bullet theory, okay?
So that's, and this is what they did, all right?
Now, let me add one other thing.
What most people don't know is that there wasn't just one magic bullet in the Kennedy
case, all right?
Because if you examine the headshot, the one that takes Kennedy's life, the official story
has two fragments flying through Kennedy's head, landing in the front seat of the car.
And this is supposed to be the head of the bullet and the tail of the bullet.
In the X-rays, there is a 6.5-millimeter object evident on the X-rays, which anybody
can see.
Now why is that important?
Because 6.5 millimeters is the exact caliber of the bullet that they tell us Oswald was
using that day.
Most people believe that is an object from the bullet that went through Kennedy's skull.
Now if it is, it has to be from the middle of the bullet because you've got the head
and the base of the bullet in the front of the car.
So we're supposed to believe that this bullet comes through Kennedy's skull, it breaks into
three parts.
The middle part stays in the skull, and I mean towards the back of the skull.
And somehow the rear portion of the bullet either goes either up or down to go around
this middle part, flies out right behind the front, and ends up in the front seat of the
presidential limousine.
So this is what I mean.
You really have two magic bullets in this case.
And by the way, that was actually going to be in the film.
I wanted that to be in the film.
Yeah, I'm surprised that wasn't in the film.
Yeah, I wanted it to be in the film, but I wasn't the final editor of course.
By the way, we should talk about that.
We ended up with five editors on this.
I don't think you have that many on your show, but we ended up with five editors on this program.
We had three guys who were really editors.
We had two guys who did the long version, get credit for the long version.
We have another guy who came in, and he did a shortened version, and we had two assistants.
Oliver really likes editing, doesn't he?
He spent a lot of time in that editing room.
I personally don't like editing, but he does.
And we spent literally months on in editing this film.
I would say at least 10 months editing the film, and I think it pays off.
I think the short version, if you've seen the short version, opens with this very nice
montage of what happened in Dallas that day before it gets into the actual story.
What happened was, when CV19 hit, it forced us out of Oliver's offices, and so what happened
was that I was actually there for a lot of the editing going down to his office every
day, but then when that happened, I wasn't there anymore after that.
So I didn't have any control over the final cut anyway.
But I wasn't even there to offer any advice after because of that.
There's so many smoking guns in this story, and it seems amazing that they're still trying
to hide documents, evidence, testimonies, whatever it may be.
To you, through all of your research and all of your studies, the books that you've written
and working on this film, what to you is the biggest smoking gun of this whole thing?
To you, what is the thing that blows your mind, no pun intended, more than anything?
When you just mentioned that they're still hiding stuff, which is accurate, there's 14,000
pages that are still being kept from the American public.
And I believe this is a direct violation of the law, because Trump said, if you recall,
that he was going to let everything go, I think it was in 2017.
The day that this was supposed to happen, the FBI and the CIA go into the Oval Office,
obviously they read him the riot act, what's the riot act?
Well, usually what they do is they give this speech.
If you do this, you'll be endangering Agent X over in the Far East, Agent Y down in Central
America, Agent Z over in Africa, and you will have blood on your hands if you do this.
So in other words, 50 years ago, they still have these same agents in the same places.
Well, most people are dead from that.
Right, right.
Obviously.
So what happened is he caved, you know, Mr. Independent, who was going to blow into Washington
and upset the power structure, he caved.
And what he did is, I believe, in direct violation of the law.
Because you had to, see, the law says that if you were going to delay anything past 2017,
you had to write an explanation for every document you were going to withhold.
Well, he didn't do that.
Okay, so what I'm trying to say is there might be stuff in there that is even more incriminating,
you know, than the stuff we have today.
Right.
All right.
Ask me what I believe is the most serious.
In the film, we talk about the three secretaries and on the fourth floor, the three, the three
ladies, the second, yeah, Vicki Adams, Sandy Styles and Garner.
If you believe the one commission, Oswald has to get the shots off, runs the other side
of the sixth floor, shoves the rifle in between the boxes, walks out the back, flies down
the stairs, okay, and ends up on the second floor.
Victoria Adams and Sandy Styles were coming down those stairs at the same time.
I've been on those stairs.
These are not the kind of short cushioned stairs that you get in modern office buildings.
They're the kind of tall, wooden rickety stairs of old fashioned, because I think the building
was built in the 30s or something.
It's hard enough to believe that they wouldn't have seen them.
It's almost impossible to believe that they wouldn't have heard him coming down those
stairs.
Now, what happened in 1999 as a result of the review board declassifying more documents
is we found this third witness, Dorothy Garner.
She was the Adams and Styles supervisor.
What makes this so important is that she didn't go down the stairs.
She stayed on the fourth floor.
She said she didn't see anybody.
The first time she saw anybody coming up the stairs, it was a policeman, Marion Baker.
All right.
So here you have the two secretaries going down the stairs.
You have their supervisors staying right there.
And nobody saw Oswald, which I believe is really, really, really hard to swallow, okay?
And so the Warren Commission, of course, they understood this.
So even though they knew about Garner, they didn't call her as a witness.
And there's a letter going from the local Department of Justice attorney, okay, who
says that we know about Garner.
She stayed on the fourth floor, all right?
And the Warren Commission got this letter in June, all right?
And so they still had three months to go.
And they never called her as a witness.
Sandy Styles, who went down the stairs with Victoria Adams, she was never called by the
Warren Commission as a witness.
So what they did is they completely distorted Victoria Adams' testimony in the Warren Report
to make it sound like she had gone down the stairs much later than she actually did in
order to make this easier to believe.
Because if you don't make it easier to believe, then you have a pretty good alibi for Oswald
not being on the sixth floor, okay?
And we, if you see the film, we had Barry Ernest, who wrote a book about this, about
Victoria Adams, called The Girl on the Stairs, okay?
And I thought he did a very good job in that.
Now the three keystones that I tried to make in the film that we were going to build the
structure around, fomensically speaking, okay, was going to be this, the Victoria Adams,
Sandy Styles stuff, the stuff I already mentioned was stringer about how this very hard to believe
this is Kennedy's brain.
And the third part is CE 399, okay?
Those are the three keystones that I thought, if we can present those in an effective way,
then I think the average viewer, okay, is going to go along with us, with everything
else that we do, okay?
And I thought that Oliver did a nice job in presenting those three keystones, all right?
But to get back to your original question, I believe that that is very, very hard to
swallow, all right?
The whole thing about Adam Styles and Garner, all right?
And if Oswald's not on the sixth floor and the Warren Commission collapses, yeah, well
the documentary makes it incredibly obvious that this is a conspiracy.
What do you think about Kennedy's speech about secret societies?
You know, we didn't really deal with that in the film, okay?
And to be perfectly frank, I haven't studied it that closely, all right?
There's a lot of controversy about this, about what he actually meant by this, all right?
Knowing JFK though, you know, Kennedy went to Harvard, an Ivy League school, which is
Harvard and Yale are very big recruiting grounds for these secret societies and to go into
places like the CIA or the State Department.
Are they?
Yale?
For the CIA?
Yeah.
The CIA and the State Department, usually Yale is CIA, Harvard is State Department, okay?
And they have a lot of secret societies there.
Well, Kennedy never joined one when the whole time he was at Harvard, all right?
And on top of that, Kennedy didn't like working intelligence.
When he first went into the Navy, he was working intelligence.
He didn't like it.
And so he got out of that, okay?
And instead, he went into these, if you've seen the movie PT 109, okay?
Instead, he went into these little cruiser boats, these patrol boats, okay?
And which are really very dangerous, and he almost got killed on one, okay?
So he kind of didn't, if that speech is what a lot of people say it is, I can understand
where he was coming from intellectually.
Yeah, the reason I bring it up is because just looking in hindsight, looking at this
whole, the whole conspiracy, the whole JFK conspiracy, it is, do you think that there's
people, bureaucrats in government that maybe do know about the truth of this?
And they're just saying like, okay, it's obvious.
We get it.
You all know that we did this, but it's, we can't admit it because it's national security.
Like what, if they do admit it, what's the worst that could happen?
Well, the whole thing would produce a mass, I mean, look.
Would it be good for the United States of America?
Yeah, but they don't care about that.
You don't think they care about what's good for the United States of America?
What they care about is the establishment, and the establishment, of course, is a combination
of the highest institutions in the government with the major media outlets.
That's roughly what the establishment is today.
And both of those groups, they essentially sold out to just create this massive cover
story about the Kennedy assassination.
Now what you said is are there people to, well, it's 59 years ago.
So I really kind of don't think that there's very many people still around, okay, in the
government who are part of it.
We have this thing called institutional memory, all right?
And this is why I think that they continue to maintain this story.
Now I know for a fact, for example, Al Gore, when he went to Congress, he was a friend
of Bernard Fensterwald, who was an attorney in Washington, who was very interested in
the Kennedy assassination.
And they were both from Tennessee, and Fensterwald said, Al, look, before you go home on Friday,
I want you to stop by my office for a few weeks, okay, and I'm going to lay out these
documents for you.
And I want you to go ahead and read them and copy them if you want.
And tell me what you think later.
Well, about 11 months later, Gora said, Bernie, you're right, it was a conspiracy.
So this is the kind of schizoid mentality that America has to live with on this Kennedy
case, where you have this small group of people that really knows what the heck happened,
all right, versus these guys in the media, like the late Peter Jennings, the alive Dan
Rather, okay, who spent their careers, you know, spreading this BS about the Kennedy
case, you know, and that's, I think that's very debilitating, because what it does is
it erodes the belief of the public in both the media and in our institutions or governmental
institutions.
And I think that's been very bad for the country.
Okay, I mean, look what you have today.
You have the rise of QAnon, who thought that JFK Jr. was going to resurrect himself.
Okay.
Have you ever heard of Operation Mindfuck?
No, I'm sure you have.
You have it?
Operation Mindfuck came about, I forget when it was, I think it was in the early to mid
sixties, possibly before, but what it was was, it was a plan to attribute all national
calamities, assassinations, and conspiracies to attribute them to the Illuminati.
And what they were doing was they were publishing all these underground articles on these underground
publications about the Illuminati trying to tie all of these national and international
conspiracies and assassinations and stuff like JFK to the Illuminati to try to attach
this crazy person stigma to all of these things like this.
Sounds like a great CIA operation.
And yeah, it does.
And I believe the documentary that I learned about this was one of the latest documentaries
by, I'll forget his name, the BBC filmmaker who's done a lot of great documentary.
Why is his name escaping me right now?
Oh, yeah.
I think I know who you mean.
Okay.
He did the one on Bin Laden.
No, no, I don't think maybe.
Yeah.
He did one, Power of Nightmares.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Same guy.
Okay.
Yeah.
The rise of Mao and Mao's wife and he intribe and he ties it back to like the history of
the United States and all these other and like the, the opium war in China with, with
Britain, it's, it's a very complicated and very hard to follow documentary, but it's
very good.
And he talks about Operation Mindfuck and how Lee Harvey Oswald and one of his early
roommates were both working on this Operation Mindfuck.
And I was hoping that you might know something about it, but you don't because I don't know
much about it.
Other than that.
I totally disagree with him about Kerry Thornley.
Okay.
Because that, that's the guy you're talking about, his, his Oswald's friend.
Okay.
Okay.
I totally disagree with him about Kerry Thornley.
And Kerry Thornley was the guy who was also a Marine, right?
Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
And that being a very useful witness for the Warren Commission against Oswald.
Right.
Okay.
Very useful.
In fact, of all the Marine guys, he was probably the worst at labeling Oswald as a real communist.
Okay.
Right.
Which if you watch the film, okay, we don't agree with that.
Okay.
We, we think that Oswald was a part of the anti fair play for Cuba committee operation,
which both the CIA and the FBI had.
But that's very interesting.
I hadn't heard of that before.
Jordan, maybe you can pull us a, pull up a proper description of that.
But that, but that sounds exactly, you know, how the CIA, you know, would do something,
you know, which resulted in QAnon, I believe.
Okay.
You know, that's a very, because what they try and do, of course, is they try and distract
the eye.
Okay.
And do a little slate of hand and switch things around from left to right.
Okay.
And so it gets all what we call indecipherable.
It becomes such a mess that people just throw up their hands and say, you know, we can't
figure this thing out.
You know, so here's a description of it on, on New York magazine.
Operation Mindfuck was a free form art project, prank political protest of the 60s and 70s
designated to sow the culture with paranoia.
The key figures behind it were Kerry Thornley, co-founder of the satiric religion called
discordianism and Robert Anton Wilson, a discordian staffer at Playboy.
Through every means available, Wilson explained in a memo laying out a, the plan, the mind
fuckers intended to attribute the national, that's what I was talking about, the national,
the attribute.
Now I'm, now I'm familiar with this.
I read about this.
Okay.
Yeah.
Attribute them the conspiracies to the Illuminati and other hidden hands.
Right.
They planted stories by the Illuminati in the underground press.
And then towards the bottom, it says, when a new, when the new Orleans jury refused to
convict one of the men who the conspiracy hunting district attorney, Jim Garrison, blamed
for the JFK killing, Garrison's booster, Art Kunkin of the Los Angeles free press got
the note revealing that the jurors were all Illuminati initiates.
Okay.
Well, that's, that's, that's something I don't believe at all.
Okay.
All right.
So what do you think about that?
Well, first of all, Kerry Thornley and Wilson or these kinds of pranksters, there's, there's
very little doubt about that.
You know, whether or not this was an effective CIA operation, I don't, I don't know now.
And Adam Curtis is the name of the guy who Adam Curtis, right?
He's the director of the film.
Yep.
Okay.
And I disagreed with his take on Thornley.
All right.
Thornley, I believe was actually part of the plot.
Okay.
And I've written about this at length.
I wrote a very long two-part article.
Thornley denied to Jim Garrison that he ever met Oswald in New Orleans that summer of 1963.
This is a lie.
Okay.
Garrison had something like six witnesses who saw Thornley with Oswald that summer in
New Orleans.
Thornley then became one of Oswald's chief accusers in both the media and before the
Warn Commission.
And in fact, he was on a local TV station, all right, blasting Oswald as a real communist
at the very same time that he was telling a friend of his who he went down to the TV
station with that, yeah, I knew Oswald and no, he wasn't a communist.
All right.
So I have a lot of problems with Kerry Thornley, you know, as to his credibility.
Now this, it might be true.
Okay.
It might be true.
But Kerry Thornley is a very suspect person in the whole Kennedy case.
All right.
From the time he meets Oswald in the Marines to the time where he's with Oswald in the summer
of 1963, all right.
And I believe that, see, Garrison actually indicted Thornley, all right, for perjury
before the grand jury, all right, a lot of people, and as a guy who actually wrote a
book about this, think that he would have been better advised to pursue that perjury
case against Thornley, a guy named Jill Biles wrote a book about this.
And then he would have been in his prosecution of Clay Shaw.
Okay.
Now on the bigger question that you brought up, it's hard for me to accept that Q&A was
just something that came out of nowhere by a couple of guys in their basement, you know,
and it attracted all of these, you know, rabid believers.
And in fact, what has happened is that a lot of people in the MSM, like Stephen Golan,
who's a professor at University of Oklahoma, and he gets printed in the Washington Post,
what they have done is just what you said.
They've tried to group together the critical JFK researchers with the Q&A people, okay,
and what they do then is just mess it all around, stir it all up, and say that it's
somehow all the same.
What in fact, it's not the same at all, all right, because what the Kennedy critical community
is, is a logical, intellectual research kind of group that tries to show the what it's
not the Q&A is really faith based, okay, it's almost a kind of religiosity about it.
All right, we don't do that.
Q&A Q&A is a little bit different because it's more of the people who are heavily invested
in the Q&A are like outcasts or lonely people who don't have a sense of community that find
a sense of community online on these crazy message boards like 4chan.
So that's where it began, right?
It was on that forum that it began, wasn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
I believe it started on 4chan and then it started to develop kind of like develop into
its own organism and so many people became involved in it and it started to blow up that
the people who were in charge or in control of the message board started to just take it
and run with it and sort of started to lean into it.
There's an incredible documentary about it called Q Into the Storm by Colin Hoback.
It's a HBO documentary that goes deep into it and the psychology of the people behind
the message boards that kind of like started that whole flame of what is Q&A now.
And I believe the guy's name who has been running it ever since, he's running for some sort of office, I think.
Oh, God.
In Arizona, I want to say it is.
That's scary.
Or he has something to do with that woman in Arizona.
Anyways, but yeah, the Q&A thing is very, very different, but I can see why they want
to lump in.
Yes.
It's very convenient for them to show, well, see, this is the same as this, when in fact
it's not at all, OK, it's not even close.
Now, getting back to the film, I said that there were these three keystones that we tried
to do and we did this in the book as well as the film.
And what we tried to do was create a kind of like archway, which we could bring all
these other things into play once those things were established.
And one of the things that we tried to put in there was about Admiral Berkeley, OK, Admiral
Berkeley was the only physician who was at the Parkland Hospital when they brought Kennedy
into the emergency room and who was also at Bethesda that night during this horrendous
autopsy.
He was that he was there present during the autopsy when they took him to Washington.
Yes, at Bethesda.
OK, that's the Bethesda Berkeley was there.
OK, all right.
And.
Oh, OK, I know you're talking about now.
And he was Kennedy's personal physician.
Right.
He signed his death warrant and everything.
Right.
He that's why he was in Dallas.
All right.
And so as Doug Horne talks about in the film and it's in the book, there are several times
where it looked like Berkeley actually wanted to talk.
All right.
The one time was in 1964 where he did an oral history with the Kennedy Library.
And the interviewer says something like,
do you agree with the one commissioned verdict on and Berkeley says, I'd rather not address
that issue right now.
OK, then when the House Select Committee began in 1976, which was the second federal
investigation of the JFK case, he wrote a letter to Richard Sprague, who was the chief
counsel.
And the intimation in the letter was something that he had information that would question
the official verdict.
Well, it turns out that Berkeley ended up doing a reversal and he wouldn't talk.
OK, in fact, the House Select Committee didn't even do a deposition with him.
Then during the review board, OK, they tried to get his secret files, which were at his
lawyer's office.
I think his name was William Illig.
OK.
And his daughter originally signed off on this.
She said that she wouldn't sign for it because he had, I think he died in 89.
All right, his daughter originally signed off on this, said it was OK with her.
Then when Jeremy Gunn, the chief counsel, tried to get her to sign an official document,
it looks like somebody got to her because she then reversed field.
All right.
But Berkeley is, I believe, a very important part of the story because it looks like he
has this desire to tell the truth about what happened.
Then suddenly he thinks better of it and says, you know, maybe I shouldn't do this.
I want my pension.
OK, and I wanted to continue.
And by the way, Johnson continued with Berkeley after the assassination.
And Berkeley stayed as his personal physician to the day Johnson left the White
House, OK, in 1968.
Now, was there a reason behind that?
I don't know.
OK, but it's kind of interesting.
And Doug Horne talks about it in the book.
So we thought that if we could bring in these major evidentiary issues that we could
also place in people like Berkeley, OK, who seems to have, you know, kind of conflicting
feelings, OK, and conflicting impulses about, you know, what he really believes about the
JFK case.
And I thought that was an important thing to bring in.
Absolutely.
Going back to Oswald, why explain to people who aren't familiar with it?
What was his involvement specifically with the CIA in New Orleans?
Obviously, we know he was working in Japan for the Marines doing surveillance
flights over China.
And that was well, actually, it's even worse than that.
OK, OK, because one of the things this was one of the things I wanted to put in the film.
OK, when the House Select Committee even assassinations convened, they assigned a
woman named Betsy Wolfe to the Oswald file.
At the CIA.
She requested.
Charters from every division of the Central Intelligence Agency.
I think there's something like nine.
OK, she read through all the charters.
Then from that information, she put a little graph on the wall saying, OK, then this is
what Oswald's file should have done within the CIA.
So then she saw the file.
And guess what?
And then do anything like that.
OK, it didn't go through what she thought it would have done, which was the Soviet
Russian division.
OK, because when Oswald leaves the Marines, he defects the Soviet Union.
So he thought she thought, well, that's where his file should go.
Is the SR division?
They didn't go there at all.
Period.
So she started interviewing people.
Within the CIA, trying to figure out what the heck happened to Oswald's file.
All right.
And so finally, in the autumn of 1978, she interviews a guy named Richard Gambino,
who at that time is the chief of the Office of Security, which, by the way, that's
where Oswald's file went.
It went to the Office of Security.
All right.
And he tells her, look.
It doesn't matter how many documents come in, and it doesn't matter if they're
pre-stamped, OK, to go somewhere.
If you intervene at the first gate, which is called the Office of Mail Logistics,
that is where those documents will go to.
So here she finally in November of 1978, she has the eureka moment.
Somebody rigged Oswald's file from the beginning within the CIA, so would only
go to the Office of Security.
And the only guy who had access to all the files was a guy named James Angleton,
OK, who, of course, is the legendary counterintelligence chief at the CIA.
All right.
Now, how hot was Betsy Wolfe's work?
It was not even transcribed in the memoranda form.
It's all in handwritten notes, which I was very lucky to get from a guy named
Malcolm Blunt, who was one of the consultants on the film.
All right.
Somehow they didn't think this was important enough to transcribe in the
memoranda form.
All right.
And from what I understand, Betsy Wolfe doesn't like to talk about those days.
I think she's an attorney in Maryland.
OK, the last time I look and she understandably doesn't like to talk about that.
Now, having said that, that somebody obviously rigged Oswald's file from the
beginning, it looks like.
Well, it doesn't look like it.
It sure as heck looks like that Oswald was sent to the Soviet Union, OK, to try and
garner intelligence about what was going on there, because there really was in a
heck of a lot of intelligence that the CIA was getting.
So they sent over this string of defectors, Oswald being one of them.
All right.
And the problem was that the KGB understood who Oswald was from the
minute he stopped in Moscow.
So what they did is they kicked him out of Moscow.
They sent him to Minsk 400 miles away.
And instead of him spying on them, they spied on him.
There was a whole ring of intelligence informers around Oswald, as well as
there being electronic surveillance in his beautiful apartment.
They set him up in.
All right.
And so Oswald realized that, well, I'm not making a lot of headway.
Yeah.
And so they brought him back to the United States.
And then it looks like, and again, I think it's even stronger than that.
The CIA and the FBI had anti Fair Play for Cuba committees crusades going on.
The Fair Play for Cuba committee was this liberal group in New York City
that said that we object to what Kennedy is doing with Cuba.
Okay.
And we believe that we should have better relations with Castro.
And they had some very big names like Norman Mailer, who were part of this group.
And obviously the CIA and the FBI, who are very anti Castro, okay, they were
really didn't like the Fair Play for Cuba committee.
So they set up propaganda and infiltration campaigns against this group.
David Phillips and James McCord were two CIA agents who were involved with this on the CIA side.
And Carter Deloach was one of the guys involved on the FBI side.
Okay.
And these are pretty high level guys in those two agencies.
Lee Harvey Oswald has all the earmarks of being in on this Fair Play for Cuba committee
operations to discredit the Fair Play for Cuba committee.
First of all, when he goes in New Orleans in the spring of 1963, his flyers that he makes up
are stamped 544 Camp Street, okay, which just happens to be the building where Guy Bannister
and David Ferry are working out at this time.
All right.
And of course, if you're supposed to believe Oswald's a communist, it's very hard to believe
that he's hanging out with these extreme right wingers like this.
Okay.
So Guy Bannister and their office on 544 Camp Street.
Yeah. Bannister's office is at that building.
And David Ferry was seen many times at that office.
Okay.
And of course, David Ferry knows Oswald from his Civil Air Patrol days back in the 50s.
So when Oswald comes into New Orleans then, according to Bannister's secretary,
actually two secretaries, all right, he had an office at that building.
Okay.
And he was making up this 544.
And when Bannister heard that he had put that address on these flyers, he got livid.
All right.
Okay.
And so then of course, Oswald gets literature from the Fair Play for Cuba committee in New York
and they tell him, we don't think it's very smart for you to try and start a Fair Play for Cuba
committee in the deep South, in New Orleans.
All right.
It's not a very, let's say, propitious way to begin a committee.
Okay.
For the FPCC at this time.
But he, when he goes ahead and he doesn't, he, of course, he's the only member that we know of
in the whole city of New Orleans.
Then he starts leafleting in public in the rush hour in these streets of New Orleans.
Now, I've talked to people who were in the Communist Party at that time and they said,
Jim, that's a dead giveaway sign that the guy is not a true communist.
And I go, why?
Because the last thing you want to do is confront somebody in public with this kind of stuff.
Because it makes them stand out if they accept it and start reading it, et cetera.
Okay.
And all these other people are going to see them.
What we did, of course, is we would go at night and we would slip the literature under the door.
So that when they would come out and see it, they could take it right into their apartment.
Okay.
And not have this stigma of being associated with this kind of thing in public.
That was a dead giveaway to me that Oswald was not really what they said he was,
which was supposed to be a communist or a Marxist.
So the saying he was an agent provocateur.
Right.
Right.
And so then, of course, he does one of these on Canal Street, which, of course,
is one of the busiest thoroughfares in the whole city.
He does one of them outside the international trademark, which where Clay Shaw works at.
Okay.
And this is when Clay Shaw's assistant, Jesse Core, actually called out cameras from a local TV
station.
And that's why we have films of Oswald doing this.
He goes and he hires two people from the unemployment to help him.
Okay.
In this leafletting at the international trademark, Jesse Core, Shaw's right hand man,
had also been at the Canal Street demonstration.
He saw that Oswald had put 544 Camp Street on that flyer.
What does he do?
From Shaw's international trademark, he sends it to the FBI office and he says,
note last page, which is where the address was.
That's very, well, it's more than interesting because it tells us that Jesse Core working
for Shaw knew what was at 544 Camp Street and he was trying to tell the FBI,
okay, somehow, some way, you got to get this guy to stop doing this.
All right.
Which dictates that the FBI was in cahoots with Guy Bannister, which, of course, they were.
Then this culminates, of course, with the fist fight between Carlos Brinier of the
DRE, student director at National, okay, the faction in New Orleans.
And he gets in a fight with Oswald and they actually go to court.
All right.
And Brinier, who actually threw the punch, he walks off Scott Free.
Oswald goes ahead, is guilty and gets a $10 fine.
He was in detention also after he was arrested.
And what does he do in detention?
He calls the FBI.
Now, I ask you, what kind of a communist calls the FBI when he gets detained for getting in
this street altercation?
Very, very, very unusual.
All right.
And then after this is all over, he goes around in a newspaper as it gets on TV, gets on the
radio, starts talking about the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.
So this has all the earmarks of being part of an operation to discredit the Fair Play
for Cuba Committee, especially down to this.
In the newly documented papers, Oswald was writing the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in
1962, not 1963.
He was, he was writing them in 1962.
And the guy who moderated the televised debate, a guy named William Stuckey,
he wrote a letter to the FBI in 1962, asking them if there was any Fair Play for Cuba
Committee representative in New Orleans at the time.
So this has all the earmarks of being a created event and well in advance,
okay, of when it actually happened.
So this is why most people believe that Oswald was not really a communist.
He was really what you called it, an argent provocateur.
I mean, if you can find any communist that Oswald worked with in Dallas or New Orleans,
that's news to most people, because nobody's ever been able to find any communist that he
worked with in either place.
And in fact, it's exactly the opposite.
She hangs out in Dallas with these white Russians, which are the people who wanted
to overthrow the, you know, Khrushchev and bring back Dzar, okay, and he's hanging out
with these rabid right wing Cuban exiles and sympathizers who want to overthrow Castro,
you know, and bring back, you know, Batista, you know, so it's very, very hard to believe,
you know, that Oswald was really what the Warren Commission said he was.
Now, there were two assassination attempts before Dallas, correct?
There were Chicago and Tampa.
Your city.
Can you explain what happened in Chicago first?
All right, I actually just did a column on this for consortium news, okay,
about the whole Secret Service thing.
In late October, early November, there was information that came into the FBI.
That there would be an assassination attempt on Kennedy in Chicago.
All right, and what's so very odd about this is the code name
to one of the informants was Lee.
Was that Oswald?
We don't know, okay.
The other information came in from a landlady who was renting these apartments
to these guys who looked to her like they were Cubans, all right, and they had some
rifles in there where they were staying, plus a map of the motorcade that Kennedy was going to take.
So the FBI gets this information, they give it to the Secret Service.
The Secret Service picks up, I think, three people, two of the shooters and a guy named
Arthur Belay, whom most people believe was supposed to be the fall guy, okay, because he
worked on a building where the motorcade was passing by, I think on the third or fourth floor,
okay, and he had a lot of resemblances to Oswald, okay, and they thought he was going to be
the stooge for this assassination attempt.
All right, they never got any more information out of these people, but a guy named Abraham
Bolden, who worked out of the Secret Service office in Chicago, knew about it and he also
knew there had been a cover-up of this attempt.
Kennedy didn't go to Chicago that day, all right, he said that because of the overthrow
of the DM government in Saigon, that was the official story, but most people think they didn't
go because of this assassination that he heard about to the Secret Service, and so he doesn't go.
And there's a cover-up about this within the Secret Service.
They were not written reports, they were only oral reports.
The documents were all sequestered, okay, and they were not in the central files.
This ends up being a very serious mistake because
the attempt in Chicago had so many similarities to what happened in Dallas, okay, that a lot of
people believe that if that information would have been forthcoming, the Dallas might have been
prevented, okay. For example, you've got a guy who resembles Oswald, this former Marine,
Bel-A, yeah, okay, who had been a trainer, okay, and many people think Oswald had been one of the
training camps in New Orleans, all right, and you're speaking about the people that were training
the Cubans, right, that has to be CIA, because that's yeah, all right, and you had this tall
building that the motorcade was going to go by right off this freeway exit ramp, all right,
and so the modus operandi looks a lot like Dallas, all right, and so if you would have
been alerted to this, you might have been able to prevent what happened. Now, in Tampa, there was
a guy named Gilberto Lopez, who was a former Cuban, came to this country, was part of the
Fair Play for Cuba Committee, all right, after the assassination, he goes to Texas,
then he goes to Mexico City, and he ends up being the only passenger on a Cubana flight to Havana,
okay, that day, that particular, which I believe was the 18th, all right, this time Kennedy was
not going to back out, he came to Tampa, okay, it was the longest motorcade, I think 17 miles,
and it went by the Floridian Hotel, which I believe at that time was one of the tallest,
not the tallest building in Tampa, all right, this time, because of Chicago, all right, there was
all kinds of security, I mean, it was every place, Vince Palomera, who's an expert on the
Secret Service, said if you combine all of the agents from different law enforcement groups,
whether it be Secret Service, whether it be local police, whether it be state police, there were
literally dozens of people crawling on every floor of that Floridian Hotel, all right, and so
they who, if this was really a planned assassination, it was this that stopped it,
Kennedy was so grateful for this, that he insisted on staying after, and he wanted to
congratulate every single person, okay, at that Floridian Hotel that day personally, and he did,
as Vince talked to one of the guys he did this with, all right, so yes, there were at least
two attempts to kill Kennedy in just November of that year, before the actual
murder took place in Dallas, very interesting, you know, because I think
the obvious implication, Kennedy wasn't getting out of 1963 alive, okay, one way or another,
come hell or high water, right, you know, they were going to get them, you know.
Where do you think this goes from here, like what do you think happens, you think that this
stuff, I think, because originally in the documentary, they talk about 2029 being a
significant year for releasing documents? Oh well, in Oliver's film, JFK, at the end of the movie,
he put this crawler on the screen, that the files of the House Select Committee on Assassinations
are classified until the year 2029, this got a lot of people angry, because they didn't know about it,
and so they started bombarding Washington, okay, why, why is this a secret? And this is what
created the Assassinations Record Review Board. So they were supposed to have solved this problem,
except they didn't, all right, it was not enough people, and it was not enough money,
okay, to break through everything. And so they put a lot of documents on what they call time delay,
which means that they would mark a document, like say, they stopped in 1998, they would mark
a document like 1999, 2001, 2003, when they thought it would be safe to go ahead and open up the
document, except that that didn't work for everything. And so because of that,
they had to mark a lot of documents, what they termed NBR, what does that mean?
Not believed relevant. It turned out a lot of the documents they believed not to be relevant
were pretty relevant, like for example, that the mayor of Dallas, Cabell, was a CI asset
from 1959. His brother was Charles Cabell, who was the deputy director of the CIA during the Bay
of Pigs, who Kennedy fired, all right. So most people would believe that that's kind of relevant,
but they just had to go leave in his haste out the door, and they end up, and so this is what
happened. A lot of these documents got either mis-filed, or they just didn't have enough time
to go through everything. And Biden last year opened up, I think, 1,400 pages, all right,
and there's still 14,000 left. Now, we are today,
were those pages significant at all? Did we learn anything from that?
We don't know. Okay, well, to be perfectly frank, I haven't looked at the 1400 yet.
But if you take a look, this is 2022.
If Biden releases all the documents this year or next year,
that will only have saved, what, six years? Okay, so all this hubbub around JFK and the ARB
ends up shaving at the most maybe six years from what the original declassification date was.
And to me, this shows you who really runs Washington.
These people, these hierarchies in power are determined that we don't care what the people
think. If we don't want to declassify these documents, we're not going to declassify the
documents. And that has been, I believe, the signal message of the whole aftermath of the
Kennedy case, the secrecy rules. Okay, and people give an example.
When the FBI went in for their first declassification session with the ARB,
they told them, look, if we want to declassify a document, we have the power to do that.
All right, you can object to it, but we have the final word. And the FBI guy there turns to his
lawyer and he says, can they really do that? The guy goes, yes, they can't. Okay, because
these guys, they're so used to being in control that to them, it was a really bad experience
to lose that control. Because seeing a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit, which is what we had
before the review board, you didn't see the document, but you had to argue why it should be
declassified. You bore the burden of proof, okay, without seeing it. In this particular case, with
the review board, it was different. The CIA or the FBI had to prove that it shouldn't be declassified,
even though the review board had it right on the screen in front of them. All right,
so the burden of proof was on them, which is, I believe, the way it should be.
You know, I mean, secrecy, I don't have to tell you this or anybody listening to this show,
you know, secrecy is the enemy of democracy. You really can't have a democracy if the CIA and
the FBI and the State Department can inform the public, okay, you're going to get to see this,
you're not going to see this. Okay, and that's the way it is. Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. That was always my position, but I don't know the answers when it
comes to national security issues and to, obviously, there are certain parts of the government that
have to keep secrets in order to protect our nation, right? Because you have other countries,
like whatever may be Russia, China, whatever other country it is,
that we don't, we want to keep secrets from for our own good. And, you know, even when it comes to,
like, a great example is Edward Snowden and the NSA spying on Americans trying to find terrorists.
Do, the big debate is, do we, should we be okay with giving up
certain freedoms for security? Should we be able, are we obligated to give up certain
comforts and certain freedoms for the greater good of the country?
Well, you know, Benjamin Franklin said about that, one of his great sayings.
What? The guy who values security over liberty deserves neither.
You know, yeah, there are valid things that have to remain secret, at least for some period of time.
All right. The general rule is, was that after 25 years, it should be declassified.
That was a general rule, except that that's not abided by, okay, very much at all.
Right.
All right. Now, if you ask me,
I believe the review board was a great concept in, in theory it was, okay,
that you would have this five person citizens panel, okay, and they would see the document
and they would go ahead and make up their minds after listening to the case,
whether it should be declassified or not. I think that's the way it should be done throughout the
government. All right. You know, there's things that I believe, you've heard of Suitland, haven't
you? That's the big Pentagon repository of, that's, that's where all the documents are
that the Pentagon doesn't want to give up. What's it called again?
Suitland, Maryland. That's where it is.
Suitland, Maryland. Yeah. And reportedly, that complex is something like 20 acres,
okay, where they have literally storehouses full of documents, you know, dating back to World War
1. Okay. And, and I just believe that, and see, this is the problem we have in this country,
because what happens is that after a very controversial event,
whether it be the Vietnam War, you know, or the Kennedy assassination,
or one of the other assassinations of the 60s, or the invasion of Iraq, okay,
what you get for the most part is people involved in the event, either talking to journalists
or writing a memoir. That's very problematic, of course, because if you're involved in the event,
then obviously you want to put the best face you can on what you did. Okay. You don't want to talk
about, well, I screwed up this and I screwed up that and I should have done better and etc.
A very good example of this is David Halberstam's book, The Best and the Brightest,
which was, more or less, the standard accepted wisdom on the Vietnam War for a very long period
of time. Okay. Today, most informed people like myself, you know, think that that book is a big
propaganda piece in which Halberstam, through his own biases, and through the fact that he
had been a former hawk, which is something he doesn't like talking about in The Best and the
Brightest. Yeah, Halberstam was a hawk. What do you mean by that? What's a hawk? He wanted to win the
war. Oh, okay. He wrote a book called The Making of the Quagmire, in which he essentially says that
prior to The Best and the Brightest. The Best and the Brightest was 72, I think. Making of the
Quagmire, I think, is 1968. Him and Neil Sheehan, his buddy from the New York Times, went to Vietnam
and they thought that the Americans should win this war. And then we were holding back and that
Kennedy was wrong. All right. And we had to eventually commit American firepower and American
troops. All right. They essentially, Halberstam at least, more or less tried to cover that up in
his book, The Best and the Brightest, all right, in which he looks at it now as a huge mistake.
Okay. Yeah. All right. And he completely leaves out
Kennedy's withdrawal plan. All right, which of course, as we talk about in the film with John
Newman and Jamie Galbraith, which he had devised in 1963, there was a big meeting in Hawaii in May of 63,
in which McNamara went over there, demanded all the schedules for withdrawal. When he got them,
he turned around and said, this is too slow. We have to get out faster. And then that fall,
Kennedy goes ahead and signs in Sam 263, which confirms the first thousand troops will be coming
home in December. This will be part of a phase withdrawal plan, okay, which will be completed in
1965. Now, the review board did a really good job on this. Okay, this is one of the best things I
think that they did in making this all, you know, people had dismissed it before, you know, but it's
all true and it's all real. Kennedy was getting out of Vietnam. So here's my question is, why did we
have to wait until 1997 to get these documents out that settled the debate? You know, because that's
when they came out in 1997. And this, that actually, if you can believe it, that actually made the big
papers, the New York Times, for example, the Philadelphia Inquirer with the headline, Kennedy
had planned to exit Vietnam. All right, so in other words, after 34 years, all right, we get the truth
about Kennedy wanting to get out of Vietnam. All right, and this, this is what I mean, this is the
problem we have with, with excess secrecy in this country. Yeah, it's not a good look for the CIA,
especially with operations like Operation Northwoods, I think it was. Right, that's another one that the
review board got out. Yeah, that was astounding that came out. Now, that what that was, was that the
Pentagon wanted to go ahead and create a provocation, you know, of either Cuban government attack in
Miami, or the blowing up of a plane over Havana. All right. On a manned plane, right? Yeah, a drone
kind of thing. And this was going to create the excuse for an invasion of Cuba, which Kennedy
was totally against. Okay, you know, he just did not, and this is why during the Bay of Pigs,
and then during the missile crisis, he refused to do that. All right, he, when the Bay of Pigs
was failing, he accepted the failure, and he was not going to commit the Marines and the Navy,
which is off the coast, to bail it out. And then during the missile crisis, when everybody was
urging them to bomb the missile silos or send in the army, all right, excuse me, Marine Corps,
he refused to do that too. And it's a hell of a good thing he didn't, because we later found out
that Castro had these many nuclear weapons, all right, and I think he had something like 10 of
them. All right, they were small scale, you know, kind of Hiroshima style bombs, all right, which
would have incinerated any kind of invasion force, you know, at that time. All right, and that, of
course, would have escalated, you know, me and you might not be here. Okay, if that would have
happened. All right. And so that was Operation Northwoods. Again, just to not get declassified
until the 90s, until the review board. And the Bay of Pigs, when he found out that the head of the
CIA was, now during that time, the head of the CIA was Alan Dulles, right? And when he found out that
he had been duped by Alan Dulles, that he had been lied to, that was like a really big turning
point for Kennedy, right? Yes. Yes. And we talk about that in the film. How did he change? How did
that change him? Well, what happened was that when Kennedy's brother, Bobby, conducted, well,
he didn't conduct it, but he was part of what they called the Taylor Commission,
which was the White House investigation of the Bay of Pigs. All right. Bobby Kennedy came to the
conclusion, after doing an extensive review, that the CIA knew the Bay of Pigs would fail.
All right. That they knew that these 1300 people, ragtag collection of Cuban exiles,
was not going to be able to stand up to Castro's regular army, which was about 30,000 guys with
tanks and mortar and cannon, okay, on this lonely beachhead. All right. And in addition to that,
Castro had like 150,000 reservists. All right. And so Bobby Kennedy came to conclusion
that Allen Dulles knew that this operation would fail. And he was banking on JFK caving
and at the last minute, sending in American forces to bail out the operation. Right. And Bobby Kennedy
essentially brought Robert Lovett into the White House, because Robert Lovett had been a former
secretary of defense. And he had wanted to get rid of Allen Dulles years earlier. Okay.
And he had been part of a report called the Lovett Bruce report. David Bruce was the other guy.
And they had written a report saying that what Allen Dulles has done with the CIA is unconscionable.
All right. And so Bobby Kennedy brought in Robert Lovett. And he said, look,
we tried to get Allen, get rid of Allen Dulles back in the 50s. But we couldn't do it because
his brother was a secretary of state. All right. So now you have the perfect opportunity
to go ahead and get rid of this guy. All right. And so he has, you know, I believe
completely transformed what the CIA should be, which is an intelligence collection group,
and do a covert action group. All right. And now because of this is Bay of Pigs disaster.
Okay. Now you have a great pretext to go ahead and fire the guy. And so this is what Kennedy
decided on doing. And he is supposed to have said during this thing, this whole 1961 episode,
that he wanted to shatter the CIA and throw it to the wind. Okay. And do a thousand pieces and
throw it to the wind. And he does get rid of the top level. And he does cut the budget. All right.
And then he puts his brother, Bobby, in charge of these secret operations against Cuba at that
time called Mongoose. All right. And Bobby makes sure that this is not going to spin out of control.
I want to see every plan that you submit. Okay. And I want to know who's going to be involved.
And I want to know how many guys you're going to use. And I want to know what you're going to do.
And the CIA really didn't like this. What was the goal of Mongoose?
It was to what they were trying to do was to stop Castro because they'd be preoccupied with
defending the island and therefore not be able to make excursions into South America. Okay. Now,
a lot of people say that was trying to overthrow. There's no way in the world
that these, this ragtag band of Cuban exiles, okay, was going to overthrow the Castro regime.
All right. And in fact, by 1963, Desmond Sherrell says, look, this is ridiculous.
You know, we should just stop the whole thing because I think it's really helping Castro
instead of weakening him. It's making him a bigger hero in the eyes of the Cuban public.
All right. And so that's how it eventually got phased out. All right. Now, what my point was,
though, that the CIA didn't like what Bobby Kennedy was doing. All right. And under Dulles,
they essentially didn't have to submit these kind of plans or anything like that.
All right. And this is one of the things that Robert Lovett complained about in his original
report. He goes, these guys over lunch will make up an operation. Dulles will approve it.
And it will then go ahead and become active the next day. Right. You know, all right. And so
that's one of the reasons that Kennedy JFK brought in the new leadership. He fired the top level
Bissell, Cabell and Dulles. All right. And he tried. He complained more than once about the fact
he didn't know what these guys were doing most of the time. He complained to the French ambassador
when he found out that the CIA was in cahoots with the OAS, the secret army organization,
trying overthrow de Gaulle. And that was one of one of his most infamous quotes is what he said to
the prime minister of France. No, the French ambassador, the French ambassador. Right. He said
that he made the famous quote saying, I don't think I'm in charge. Yes. You know, I can't speak
for the CIA because I don't know what they're doing some. Okay. You know, but he said, you can
tell Charles de Gaulle that I'm in complete support of his government. You know, and so then
he actually promised to send over a fleet from the Mediterranean, you know, if de Gaulle needed it.
All right. And so, yeah, this is one of the comments he made, okay, about not being in control
of the Central Intelligence Agency. All right. And it was utterly true, of course. You know,
Kennedy really, really suspected a lot of the worst things about what the CIA, you know, was,
was really doing. All right. And he actually wants with one of his friends from the Senate.
Okay. He got so angry. All right. With
them trying to go ahead and convince him to do something, which I believe was the assassination
of Trujillo. Okay. That he literally broke a plate over the dinner table. Okay. Saying he didn't
want to hear about any more of this stuff. All right. Okay. And this is the kind of struggle,
you know, he was in, and this is why in, I think it was 62, he issued a set of diplomatic notes.
All right. To all the ambassadors through the State Department saying,
the guy running American foreign policy in each and every foreign country is the ambassador.
Okay. Not the CIA. I want the ambassador to be the ultimate guy in charge,
which makes perfect sense. The guy whose feet on the ground, he understands the people.
Right. But that's not what's happening. No.
And what, so what do you think the fundamental problem is with that? What was, what was the
problem with Alan Dulles? Like, what was his motivation? Or what was the CIA's motivation?
And why, why, what was the root of this conflict or this pro or this, this ambition for the CIA?
Alan Dulles came from Sullivan and Cromwell, which was a very high powered, huge law firm
out of New York City. His brother was the managing partner. He was a senior partner.
Some of their assignments, well, actually a lot of their assignments
work for these big, huge sprawling corporations. And a lot of these corporations
had very powerful interests in the third world. Okay. And so, if you know anything about
what the CIA has done in the third world, like our bends, you know, in Central America.
I've watched a lot of Oliver Stone's documentaries.
Okay. Then you understand what their objective is. And what their objective is, okay, is
the opposite of what America is supposed to stand for, which is supposed to be spreading
democracy. What they were trying to do was keep dictator ships in power so that they could have
the resources of this, whatever the third world country was, being exploited by American or British
or European conglomerates. A very good example being Congo, which we spent some time on in the
film. Right. Okay. And in the book, and we talk about, we talk about in the book with a guy
named Richard Mahoney. All right. And he was one of the preeminent experts on Africa and the Congo.
He's in the film. We did an extended interview for him in the book. Okay. And his book, JFK
Ordeal in Africa, was a milestone in figuring out just who JFK was. Because JFK's stance on the Congo
and the whole episode with Dag Hammerskald and Patrice Lumumba was so different
than what Eisenhower did before and what Johnson did after that it's almost impossible
to compare the three men. I don't think you can, because Kennedy actually backed Lumumba,
who was his revolutionary leader in the Congo who wanted to kick out Belgium.
All right. And Hammerskald, who was a secretary general, who actually wanted to have third world
democracy. Now, in the book and in the film, we talk about what happened to those two men.
Lumumba, who was assassinated with the help of the CIA,
three days before Kennedy's inaugurated. I don't think that was a coincidence.
No. Okay. They got rid of him three days before Kennedy was inaugurated.
And what exactly was the CIA's interest in Congo?
Well, in the Congo, the CIA was in cahoots with Belgium and England to try and thwart Lumumba's
ambition, which was to make Congo an independent state and to have its own resources for its own
people. Okay. To them, he was a very dangerous guy because not just for Congo, but because they
feared that he could spread this pan-Africanism idea throughout the continent. All right. And
Congo, for example, is a very rich country with a lot of great resources. And so they helped track
Lumumba when he escaped from prison. Okay. Because they got Mobutu, who was his chief pentagon,
my army guy, to betray him. Okay. And to have him arrested. And when he escaped,
the CIA helped the Belgians track him down. Okay. And turn him over to his enemies in
Katanga, which was the breakaway colony. And then I believe, and I think this is in the book,
when we interviewed Mahoney and Newman, John Newman, they put him before a firing squad,
buried him, disinterred him, poured sulfuric acid over his body,
buried him again, disinterred him again, poured mold sulfuric acid over his body.
They literally didn't want this guy to exist. Okay. And this is all 72 hours before Kennedy's
inaugurated. All right. Now, Dag Hammerskull, of course, we spent some time on him in both the
book, okay, with Mahoney, okay, and the film. And what we did is we tried to show
that we don't think the Dag Hammerskulled plane crash was really an accident. Okay.
And I think that was in September of 61. Who was he again? Dag Hammerskull was a secretary
general of the UN. Okay. And he was talking to Kennedy about... He was actually pretty good
friends with Kennedy. Right. Okay. And they cooperated on this whole Congo thing. Right.
All right. And Hammerskull, the night his plane went down, Edmund Gullion, all right,
who was very interested in this whole Congo thing. He sent, and I think it was the ambassador at that
time, he sent a telex to Washington and words of the effect. This is not an accident. Okay.
And he was convinced that this was sabotage. And most people today, if you watched that film,
Cold Case Hammerskulled, all right. And if you read Susan Williams' book, Who Killed Hammerskulled,
it's pretty obvious that Hammerskulled was murdered. We show a picture.
You have the ace of spades in his pocket.
His is the only body that is not charred and burned. And he has a car, a playing card in his
tie collar, which the witness who actually was at the scene said it was the ace of spades.
All right. Now, does anybody think that Hammerskulled was playing cards at the time of his death?
And the card blew up and he shoved down into... No, no. It's pretty clear somebody planted
that card there as a message. All right. And so what happens in Congo is that after Hammerskulled's
death, this galvanizes Kennedy. All right. It galvanizes Kennedy. And I believe it was because
of Gullion's message that Hammerskulled, who he greatly sympathized with, okay, was actually
killed. It wasn't an accident. And he more or less takes control of the whole Congo operation
after. And he sees it through. He strikes down the breakaway province in Katanga.
And he appoints... He helps appoint a new Democratic leader, okay, in Congo. Now, all of that,
and again, this is one of the things that we go through very thoroughly in the book,
JFK Revisited, is all this stuff.
Like magic is reversed after Kennedy is killed. All right. And what happens in Congo?
During his funeral procession, they were literally like changing documents about...
About Vietnam, yeah. About Vietnam, right.
Right. And so in Congo, what happens, if you can believe it,
Johnson allies himself with Belgium, the colonizing country, and they CIA sends in the
Cuban exiles to essentially wipe out the last of the revolutionary followers of Lumumba.
Now, there was an excuse for this. It was called the Simba Rebellion.
But everybody who has studied that, like Jonathan Quittney in Mahoney,
you know, that this was a horrible overreaction, okay, to what was really a bunch of natives,
okay, trying to defend the... Part of them is defending the legacy of Lumumba.
And so they brought in, and by the way, I know a guy who was there, Carl McNabb.
And he said, Jim, now remember what Kennedy said about who was supposed to be leading foreign
policy in foreign countries? He was a CIA pilot. He said, we took over the embassy,
okay, during that whole thing, okay, we were essentially running the place. And we were
bringing in all these fighter planes, okay, to go ahead and finish off whatever was left,
whatever was left, okay. And so then what happens, of course, is Mobutu becomes the leader of Congo,
and he ends up essentially embezzling hundreds of millions of dollars, okay, that Lumumba would
have gone ahead and tried to build an economy on, okay, and he became probably the richest guy in
Africa after Kennedy's death. Wow. So in other words, what we tried to show in the book, in the film,
okay, is that, is it really just a coincidence that all these things change
after Kennedy is killed? Is that Vietnam, Congo, the Middle East, their rapprochement with Castro,
the attempt that they taught with Moscow? Could all these things have really just reversed
themselves, you know, out of sheer accident, out of sheer serendipity? And I, for one, have come
to the conclusion, and I write about this in the book, is that, you know, I don't think you can
accept this all as simply an accident. You can't. Yeah. That somehow, when you reverse that many
policies and you reverse them so dramatically, you know, and really, if you really think about it,
it's almost like Kennedy never existed. They were so eager to reverse the things that he wanted to do
that it was almost, within 18 months, it's all gone. It's all disappeared, you know,
between Johnson and the CIA, you know, it's essentially into the ether zone. And I've come
to the conclusion, although I haven't written about this, that what happened between Johnson
and Nixon and Kissinger in their maniacal attempts to completely eliminate Kennedy's foreign policy,
was really the beginning of the neocon movement. Okay, the neocons who felt, if anything, that
America needed to assert itself more. Okay, instead of being what Kennedy wanted it to do,
was essentially a kind of cooperation, okay, with people like Sikarno, with people like Gamalabdil
Nasser in Egypt, okay, and that's all essentially evaporated today. You know, it's gone. And you
know, this is really, if you ask me, this is what we tried to get across, okay, that what happened
to American foreign policy after Kennedy's death is really a kind of tragedy. It's kind of an epic
tragedy, because it wiped out what was going to be something completely different. Okay. And it
essentially, see, I make the argument in both the book and the film that
what Kennedy was doing was a conscious rebellion against what had come before him,
which of course was John Foster Dulles and Eisenhower. All right. And we talk about in the
long version, and in the script in the long version in the book, we talk about the Algeria
speech, which I believe, and maybe I should, should I talk about that and explain what that is?
Yeah, okay, definitely. The Algeria speech, at the time Kennedy made this speech in 1957,
he was a senator. France was involved in a horrible, bloody, atrocious war on the North
coast of Africa against its colony of Algeria. And America more or less implicitly supported it.
Kennedy took the floor of the Senate. I think this was in June of 1967, 57.
And he makes what is probably the boldest and the most
the best word is provocative speech that I can think of any senator making in that whole decade.
He essentially took the floor and said we are on the wrong side of history.
We should not be backing the imperial French empire, which is going to collapse anyway.
We should be backing the people who want to make Algeria free. All right. And it's not just for
Algeria, because this is going to split France apart, which by the way it did, into a civil war.
Okay, the people who want to stay in Algeria and the people who want to get out of Algeria.
But beyond that, beyond that, we should be at work in freeing Africa, the whole continent,
not just Algeria. And then he said, I can't believe that the people in this Senate
don't understand that what is happening in Algeria now in 1957 is the same thing that
happened in Vietnam in 1954. How could we forget Den Ben Phu? It happened just three years ago.
And now we're watching it being replayed right in front of our eyes and nobody saying anything.
To read that speech today, even today in the new century, is really something to see
that a guy would say that, okay, and be so vociferous about being anti-administration and
anti-colonial. Okay, that's Kennedy was. And by the way, this was met
with a hailstorm of criticism. Kennedy's office clipped all the editorials and the columns.
I think, and this is in the book, I think out of about 150 responses over two thirds of them were
negative. Wow. And even the people in his own party, like Dean Atchison and Adley Stevenson,
even those guys criticized Kennedy for making that speech. All right. And Kennedy actually thought
that, did I make a mistake? When on the timeline, did Eisenhower's speech about the military
industrial complex happen? That was when he was leaving. Okay, right. That was at the end of
his presidency. Right. But what I'm saying was, was that after Kennedy took the floor? Yes. Right.
And by the way, a friend of mine, Aaron Good, found out that Eisenhower made his great
domino theory speech just a few days after Kennedy made his Algeria speech. Okay. So in other words,
Kennedy makes his speech that we have to start freeing these third world countries.
And then a few days later, Eisenhower says, no, because there's this domino theory that if one
country goes communist, all the other countries are going to go communist also. And by the way,
I should say that, you know, the whole struggle in Algeria was not communism. Okay. It was and
as Kennedy said, look, this is not about communism versus capitalism. This is about colonialism
versus nationalism. Okay. And we're not going to be able to defeat the nationalism. Okay. So what we
should do is we should try and ally ourselves with it in some kind of a positive way so that when
these people win and take power, they will not look back and say, wait a minute, these guys never
wanted us to take control anyway. It's really an amazing speech to read. And the fact that he made
it in 1957, okay, that early is really and then a year later, I think, and we talk about this in
the book, okay, he, he wrote an article for foreign, I think foreign affairs magazine, okay, in which
he went expounded on this at length. See, we have, we did a long interview with Robert Rakov, which
is mostly in the book. And Robert Rakov is a professor of Stanford who wrote on this specific
subject. It's called, I think his book is JFK, I'll be Jay in a non-aligned world. And he studied
at length both the speech and the article that JFK wrote about it. And he was very impressed
by the foresight and the vision that was expressed in those two instances. Okay, how different it was
than John Foster Dulles. Okay, I mean, with John Foster Dulles, you were either for us or against
us. Okay, there was no in between. There was no being non-aligned. There was no neutrality. Okay,
but Kennedy was very open to the idea of neutrality in the third world. Because what he said was
essentially, look, if we compete with the Russians in the third world, I think we can win. Because I
think we have more to offer. Okay, to these third world countries. And Indonesia is a great example.
Indonesia is a great example. Kennedy, when Sukarno wanted to nationalize a lot of the American
industries there, Kennedy sent an economic advisor over because he wanted a better deal for the
Indonesian government than what the American companies were offering. All right, he wanted
the majority split to go to the Indonesian government. All right, of course, when Sukarno was
overthrown, which by the way, as we talk about in the book, Bradley Simpson, who was probably the
foremost scholar in Indonesia in the United States, very good interview. All right, he essentially says
Sukarno would not have been overthrown if Kennedy had lived. Right. Okay. And when you understand
what happened in Indonesia that year, 65, you know, the estimates go, if you see that movie,
the year living dangerously, there was anywhere from 500,000 to 850,000 people killed as a result
of the Suharto takeover. Okay. And Brad Simpson, who has studied that at LinkedIn in depth, says
that wouldn't have happened if Kennedy had lived. See, this is another thing that we tried
to do is we tried to show that there was a definite cause effect. And see, that's most historians
like myself, you know, you should show that if you're going to make an argument. If you're going
to say such and such is true. Okay. Then you have to show a cause and effect relationship.
Okay. Did this happen because of this happened? All right. And we tried to do that. Okay. And I
think we did in several situations. What do you think the answer is to some of these institutional
problems with the rot that we have in government with people being able to stay in office for
ungodly amounts of time and to be able to have bring family members in and to be in cahoots with
other companies and with lobbying and with just lining up like shit like Nancy Pelosi, for example.
Like if you take a look at how old somebody like Steny Hoyer is. Okay. If you take a look at how
old somebody like Nancy Pelosi is. Okay. If you take a look at how old somebody like Schumer is.
Okay. These people, they have a great job and they have the aura of power. All right. And
they don't want to give it up. You know, they'll stay there forever. You know, if you if you don't
do something about it. All right. Now, as far as the other question, the neocon philosophy, I believe,
has been some so pervasive that is there really a whole lot of difference between
what the Republicans want to do and what the Democrats want to do other than just like optics
and I don't think there's a whole lot of difference. No, I don't think so either.
You know, I mean, of course, we did get out of Afghanistan, but that was such an utter
complete disaster from the beginning. I mean, God, we were there for 20 years. And what did we
accomplish? Nothing, you know. But if you take a look at I mean, when when you got a guy going to
Saudi Arabia, and he fist pumps and BZ, okay, then BZ, the guy who had Kosogi killed. Okay.
The crown prince. Okay. Yeah. You talked about Jamal Khashoggi.
Well, that was the journalist the Saudi Arabians had killed. Yeah. And most people think that he
had them killed. The crown prince had killed for sure. Right. Yeah. All right. Yeah, I think it's
pretty obvious. Yeah. I mean, what 20 guys go over there for no reason, because you're not ordered.
They just want to get rid of him because he brings columns for the Washington Post, right?
You know, and so, you know, and by the way, this is another thing. Thanks for giving me all these
openings. All right. Kennedy, Kennedy did not like the way that John Foster Dulles had turned away
from Nasser in Egypt and toward Saudi Arabia as a counterweight against Egypt. And again,
we talk about this in the book. All right. Is that Kennedy thought that Saudi Arabia was everything
we don't want the Middle East to become? You know, the why? Why was that? Because it was
extremely fundamentalist. The Wahab, the Wahab religion and whatever it is, is an extreme form
of Islamicism. Okay. And they adapted that just for the reason of keeping the Saudi empire in power.
Okay. Whereas Nasser, Gamal Abdo, Nasser of Egypt,
he did, he essentially eliminated the Islamic Brotherhood in Egypt. He went to war against
the Islamic Brotherhood. All right. And he threw them in prison and had them executed.
The leaders executed. All right. And if you take a look at the way he dressed,
Nasser had a suit and tie on. He didn't have this hajib thing that these, this Saudi Arabians
want to encourage. All right. And so he thought that Saudi Arabia was an object of the past.
He wanted to encourage a guy who was a socialist, which was Nasser. Okay. A guy who was a nationalist,
who was Nasser, a guy who really was a progressive, that was Nasser. And he wanted him to be
the example for the Middle East. All right. And of course, you know, that didn't work out. Okay.
For several reasons. All right. But I believe if Kennedy would have lived,
that would have been a different situation in the Middle East. You know, because the last thing
that the guys in Saudi Arabia wanted to see was secularism. All right. They didn't want to see
a lot of kids going to school, learning English, you know, and dressing westernized and stuff like
that. All right. You know, this is the way they keep power. All right. And Kennedy,
he didn't even want to meet with the leader of Saudi Arabia. He actually told his driver as
he was going over there. What am I even doing meeting with this guy? He was in some hospital down
in Palm Springs in Florida. And I think Dean Roscoe, Secretary of State says, look, Palm Beach,
he's like 10 miles away from your house. Okay. He's in the hospital. You got to go see him.
Wait, wait. The king of Saudi Arabia was in a hospital in Palm Beach? Yeah. For what? I don't,
I think it was like a kidney problem or something. So he wanted to see a doctor in Palm Beach.
Yeah. So he wanted to see somebody in Florida. That's fucking incredible.
Incredible. And so, and so Russ says, you got to go, you can't just ignore him. And so as Kennedy
is going over there, he's bitching and moaning to his driver, you know, God, I didn't even want to
see this guy. Wow. Wow. And so we, that's one of the things we did in the book. We have Robert
Rakov, who's a scholar at Stanford. And we have Phillip Muellenbeck, who I think is at George
Washington University in Washington. And I was so glad we got them in because
they have done so much good work on Kennedy's foreign policy, excavating things, you know,
undiscovered things that I, not even I knew about before. All right. And they did two very good books
betting on the Africans and JFK, RBJ in the non-aligned world. And we got two really good
interviews with them that we put in the book. And I really, I really like that, you know, between
those two guys, between John Newman, Jamie Galbraith, and, and Mahoney, I think this is one
of the very first times that you're going to see in this format, the oral history format,
that you're going to see a really strong and look and insightful look at what Kennedy was trying to
do. What was he trying to do with the classified information regarding UFOs? We had a guy who did
a very long essay for the Sheamus Cougan, who did a very long essay on us on his forest,
my website is canadiesandking.com. And he showed that those are fake documents. Okay, so this whole
idea that somehow, and then there's this other Marilyn Monroe thing with. Oh yeah, he was banging
Marilyn Monroe. No, no, no, no, no, that's, please don't even go there. Okay. That's not true. We have
a, I guess you don't read my website. We have a two part on that. Okay, with this whole Anthony
Summers stuff, we're exposing that too. All right. They were supposed to have a shared interest in
aliens. Oh, Marilyn Monroe and Kennedy. Well, it's an interesting topic. Even the people in the
UFO community have admitted that that document is a forgery. Okay. So no, that whole angle
is more or less BS. Okay, so no. So there was no evidence that he was interested in that or
there was no thing that he was going to open up this archive. Okay, about the whole blue book
thing. No, no, that's that's not true. Not true. And in fact, it's been shown to be the opposite.
Oh, okay. Okay, it's been shown to be that pretty much fakery. Well, there is one president who
supposedly, what was the story? One of the presidents took somebody apparently to Area 51.
Was it Reagan? One of the presidents took Jackie Gleason because Jackie Gleason was obsessed with
the UFOs. I think he even had a house built in like upstate New York that looked like a flying
saucer. And that's one I didn't know. Yeah. And who who was the president that took Jackie Gleason
to like flew him? They were like having they were having whiskey one night and he's like,
you want to go see you want to go see an alien? And he like took him to Area 51 or one of those
somewhere in Nevada. Let's tell people that are listening and watching there are people that
are watching and or listening. Let's tell them about your book where they can find your book
where they can read more about what you're doing. The book is called JFK Revisited. And you can get
it on Amazon. All right. And you can probably get it in some of the bigger bookstores. And like I
said, it consists of the two screenplays. Okay, the short version of the film and the long version
of the film. The first one is called JFK Revisited. The second is called JFK Destiny Betrayed.
And then what happens is that at the end, you get the excerpted interviews from all the people
about I think 27 or 28 people that we did for the picture. Okay. And in that sense, it's a very,
very unusual book. Okay. Because like I said, at the beginning, you're never going to see this
kind of a lineup of luminaries for one film. You know, you get Dr. David Mantek, Dr. Cheryl Weck,
Dr. Henry Lee, Dr. Gary Aguilar on the forensic side. And you get people like John Newman,
JFK historian on Vietnam. You get people like Jamie Galbraith, University of Texas professor,
whose father was John Kenneth Galbraith, of course, very influential in Kennedy's Vietnam
policy. You get people like I mentioned, Philip Muellenbeck and Robert Rakove. And it's really,
really a stellar cast that like I said, you will never see, you've never seen it before and you
will never see it again. Okay. And so that's the second part of the book. Okay. That's in fact,
that's quite a long, it's like 200 pages of those excerpted interviews, which I believe are so
fascinating. All right. So in other words, what you get in the first part is what we wrote about.
Okay. Except it's all footnoted. There's like 500 footnotes to the screenplay. All right. And then
you get the actual authorities at the end of the book with stuff that they didn't have enough time
to put into the film. So there's never, I don't think there's ever been a book quite like this.
And I think, you know, it shows that what we did in the film, we referenced it all. Okay.
Where can people watch the full four hour version of the film?
You probably have to get the DVD.
Gotta get the DVD. That's amazing DVD. And then in the second part of the film,
of the second part of the book, rather, you get stuff that was not in either the two hour,
the four hour version of the film. So it's really, you know, it's I'm very proud of the book. I think
it turned out very well. Okay. And it's very unique in that sense.
Well, I appreciate you doing this. I mean, it says a lot about your work and your research
and your writing, the fact that Oliver Stone partnered up with you to make a movie.
Two. Two movies. Yeah. A long version and a short version. Yeah. What's next? Is there,
is there anything? Well, there's actually an historical project that I've been working on for
a long time. And I don't know if you're aware of this. It's based on
the Ludlow massacre of 1913, 1914, which took place in Colorado.
And this was probably the bloodiest, most deadly labor company management confrontation in American
history. And in fact, it's so bad that not very few people know how many people died because it's
very hard to figure out the information. And I've done a screenplay on it, which took me a very
long time to actually went to Denver and got all this archival stuff. And I have a producer named
Bob DeBrino, who is working on trying to sell it. It was a confrontation between the United
Mine Workers and John Rockefeller Jr., who had taken over John Rockefeller Sr.'s empire,
in which Colorado fuel and iron was a part of. And this ended up in an explosion of violence,
where the miners moved out of their company-owned buildings onto a nearby plane called Ludlow
into a tent colony. This went on for months. And Rockefeller ended up financing, because it
bankrupted the state. He ended up financing the National Guard. And they essentially torched a
tent colony. There's actually pictures of this that I found, where they actually burned the
tent colony to the ground. And the miners then essentially went nuts and they brought in all
of these explosives, weapons, grenades, dynamite. They went on a 10-day revenge rampage,
exploding and burning all the Rockefeller's property in Colorado. It got so bad that the
representatives in Congress had to get a private consultation with President Wilson,
and Wilson had to send in the Army to put this thing down. And so this is what I'm working on.
As you can see, I'm attracted to these kind of subjects.
So I thought this was a very interesting subject. And so this is something that I'm trying to put
together now as a screenplay. And like I said, I have a guy named Bob DeBrina who's helping me
market it right now. Also, Gray Fredrickson, who was the producer of Godfather 2. He won the Oscar
for that. He's helping me also. Amazing. So when that comes out, I'll be back down to Tampa.
Perfect. I'm looking forward to it, man. Thank you very much for coming down. And
on behalf of the listeners, we are very grateful for you and all your work. And I will again make
sure to link it all below. Thank you so much.
