I just always wanted to write, and I couldn't find anyone that would pay me to write when
I got out of college, so I got into newspapers, then I got into magazines, then I found my
way to television, and then I was hired by Cable News Network when it started, and became
the bureau chief there, and then I wanted to, I was just tired of disposable news, so
I wanted to get into something a little deeper, a little meatier, and I got into documentaries,
PBS documentaries, and that led to the first book that I wrote because I developed it for
PBS called Space Age.
So I wrote that for Random House, did a couple of other things, and then fell into working
with William Shatner, who wanted to do a book about Star Trek, and so he and I got
together and we wrote that book, and that was a blast, and then I finally was in a situation
where I could write my own books, the kind of books I wanted to write, and I was fascinated
with high technology, but I realized that we were never really going to figure out how
to solve technological problems until we understood what made us tick, so I thought, well, you're
going to go back to the beginning, and you have to talk about or understand evolution,
human evolution, and what makes us the way we are, I mean, we're this very strange creature
when you think about it, so different from anything else on the planet, and so I just
went back and I wrote two books about that, Thumbs, Toes, and Tears, and another one
called Last Ape Standing, and they really kind of try, it's my way of trying to understand
why do we behave the way we do, why do we do the horrible things we do, and also the remarkable
things we do, think about it, I mean, we're leaving other planets, you know, what kind
of creature does that, nothing like this, look at the cities we build, look at the technologies
we build, both destructive ones and remarkably beautiful ones, so that was, those two were
my effort, and then it's almost, with immortality yank, I was, obviously I was writing a lot
of science, and I just was looking around and I was saying, could we be at a time in
human history when our technology is so good that we could actually solve aging, we could
eliminate death, so I started looking around to see if that was the truth, and I found,
that's when Calico was created by Google, I found out Art Levinson who had been at Genentech,
he was the CEO of Genentech, which was the first biotechnology company, he became, he
was asked to become the chairman of that, and then I came across Craig Venter and everybody
knew Ray Kurzweil, who's a big time futurist and inventor, and that's just not, well these
guys are the real deal, you know, they're not snake oil salesmen, you know, they're
serious scientists, so I took a while to track them down, but I finally got to them
and Aubrey de Grey and Robert Herriery, and I kind of stumbled across Robert Herriery's
work in stem cells, and then I wrote the book, I just tried to, first of all, figure out
why do they, why did they even care to do this, and why did, why were they putting all the
expertise that they had to solving death, and then I thought, doesn't everyone want
to know this, so I kind of told their stories and told the story of the science behind that,
and then my most recent book is this novel that I've written called Doppelganger, which
is really a kind of a dramatic way to look at the whole question of artificial intelligence
and the singularity, and all the questions we're now grappling with where we have these
powerful technologies, and we have to figure out, you know, what are we going to do with
them, and how are they going to shift everything, and I don't have the answers, but I thought
it's a hell of a story, and so I wanted to get that done, and I just have a series of
probably 10 books I want to write.
When did you release the immortality book, what year?
That was 2020.
2020.
Yeah, very beginning, it was right when COVID hit.
How long did that take you to put together, including all your research and interviews
and stuff?
Almost four years.
Four years.
I spent almost all of 2016 traveling, and spending hours and hours and hours with these
guys, and getting into their labs and learning the story of what was going on, at one point
because I had heard that bowhead whales don't age.
Really?
Yeah, they found one of them.
Bowhead whales?
Yeah, they're the second largest whales in the world.
And I don't think I've ever seen one of these.
It's fascinating because they, well, they don't seem to get cancer, they don't seem
to have dementia, they don't age, and they thought they lived to be like 70 years old
or so, just like most whales, but, and I met the guy that was there when this happened.
They had a dead whale that they had brought in because they were allowed to be harvested
two times a year by the Inupiat people, and this guy reaches, and he sees a kind of crease
in this dead whale, and he reaches in and they slide it or cut it, and he reaches in
and he pulls his hand out, and it had a harpoon from 125 years earlier.
Wow.
And they went, holy mackerel, this animal is way older than we thought, and then they
started doing genetic research and found that they routinely lived to be 225 years old.
Isn't there a shark that can live like almost a thousand years?
I saw a recent thing where there's sharks that are older than like some trees.
Yeah, Greenland sharks.
Greenland sharks, yes, that's what it is.
Yeah, they can live to be 500 years old, and the theory on it all this is that something
kills them eventually.
I mean, something's going to get you eventually.
Right.
But what doesn't kill you is aging, and therefore, and aging is the main reason cancer kicks
in, dementia kicks in, heart problems.
Almost every problem anybody has happens as people age, or unless you're hit by a car.
Right.
So even if you live a thousand years, you're going to get hit by lightning or something,
and that's what apparently happens to these animals eventually.
Now, from what I understand, the human body hasn't become more resilient over time.
Like if you take a human being from the 5th century AD, and you looked at us now, like
we would essentially have the same lifespan, the differences, the medicine is not as good,
there was more people dying from famine, hand-to-hand combat was more prevalent, but essentially
if you could put those two people in a vacuum in different time frames, we'd live about
the same time.
Yeah.
The big advance around 100 years ago was sanitation.
Most people just got a lot of bugs in their system, and eventually it killed them.
That was 100, I think in 1890s, stomach problems, which was just a generic term, was the main
reason people died.
Nobody died of cancer.
Almost nobody died of cancer because they were dead already before they got it.
People didn't die of heart attacks until the 50s and 60s because they were already dying
before that.
A lot of times it was just sanitation, or a lot of times it was childbirth.
One out of five children died in childbirth in 1900.
Once we started getting just good sanitation, more people lived longer, and then sulfa
drugs and penicillin and those sorts of things, I mean people would routinely die from typhus
or scarlet fever or even, I don't know, just a sore throat.
A bad cough.
Yeah, and we'd just get out of hand, and now all those drugs keep people alive now.
Then statins came along and all sorts of other drugs that are extending life, but one of
the things I discovered with immortality ink was people were living longer but not necessarily
better.
You see a lot of people in their 80s and they're just struggling, or even in their 90s, but
no one's living a great life up to 100, and dementia starts to kick in almost universally
by 90.
You always find good stories of people that are 100 years old and smoking cigarettes and
drinking and they're just fine, but one of the things we discovered in the course of
the book was those are people that mainly don't have very many bad genes.
That's ultimately what gets you.
Bad genes.
Bad genes.
If you have a heart issue, your vascular system is going to break down at some point.
Nobody has perfect genes, but those people that have something closer to perfect genes
are the ones that live the longest.
Interesting.
At some point, no matter how much you work out, no matter how great your diet, eventually
your genes are going to get you.
That's where the work that Art Levinson and Calico is doing, where he's basically trying
to figure out what are the switches that get flipped in our DNA that make us actually age.
There's something going on that says it's time to age.
It's time to start breaking down.
Otherwise, we'd just rebuild our bodies.
We're perfectly capable of it.
That's where stem cell therapy and that sort of thing can help extend life.
What do people like Art Levinson or Ray Kurzweil, what do they say as far as like a timeline
to when we're going to be able to extend our lives significantly and how long and not
only like when in the future did they think that will happen, but how much longer do they
think they're going to be able to make humans live?
Okay.
Great questions.
Well, Kurzweil always has very specific numbers for everything that he's predicted and often
he's quite bright or very close.
He pretty much believes that by the late 2020s, we would have created enough advances and
he predicted this in 2000.
Enough advances biologically that we can begin to extend life longer, basically extend life.
For every year you're alive, you would be able to extend life another year.
So okay, so you could be able to stay stagnant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can keep yourself going and keep yourself going kind of at that level of health, whatever
it is.
And we'll get there in the late 2020s, he thinks?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That sounds pretty accurate.
And then he believes that in nearly 2030s, what won't kick in is nanotechnology.
So basically you can have molecular sized machines that are obviously invisible and they're
just mechanical versions of biology.
So they go in and clean out your heart, you know, or go in and augment your brain.
You know, suddenly you just, you know, with the flick of a switch, you're in another world
because you have nanotechnology in your brain that's just creating that world.
So they're artificial neurons, artificial cells, you know, that can do anything your
body can do except better.
And then that really begins to reverse aging, you know, so that you can actually get younger,
not simply continue to stay alive.
And then once that happens, you know, you could basically live forever and I think
Aubrey de Grey calculated at one point, you would probably live a thousand years.
And then something would get you, you'd get hit by lightning or by a bus.
Something that is so kind of drastic you can't come back from it.
Yeah.
Some random event.
Eating by a shark.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
But won't those people be able to at some point upload their brain to a chip or to a flash
drive and if their body gets eaten by a shark, they'll just, they'll have a backup.
They'll be able to just plug it into a cyborg or something.
Yeah.
Well, and that's exactly the premise of doppelganger.
Okay.
That is precisely that.
And that, the concept or the kernel of that story goes way back to a meeting that I had
with a guy named Hans Morvec at Carnegie Mellon and he was the head of Carnegie Mellon's
Robotics Institute and he was the first, he wrote a couple of really interesting books.
One of them was called Mind Children and he was the first scientist to say we could download
a human brain into a machine, a robot was the way he, because he was a roboticist.
And I remember when I read that and went, whoa, you know, well, and then I thought, well,
what if this guy, you know, uploads or downloads his brain on Friday and he's murdered on
Sunday?
Danny, the aliens are taking me to Zargon and I have too much stuff to pack.
Do they have soap?
I don't know.
I need to bring all of it.
Shampoo, body wash, foot foam.
Steve, pack your one essential.
That's our sponsor, Mando's four and one acidified cleansing bar.
Plus you can shave with it.
So it's like five and one Danny.
What if the pH is off?
Will it mount my skin?
Have you ever seen alien?
It just works, bro.
It was made by a doctor who saw too many people getting misdiagnosed with BO.
So he said, stop the silliness and came out with this gorgeous bar of gorgeosity.
The best thing about their four and one acidified cleansing bar is that it smells delicious.
I like the bourbon leather smell because it's smooth and sophisticated.
Plus when you're traveling, you don't need to pack your travel bag with deodorant or
a cologne.
You just bring the bar.
It does all that work all in one for shaving, for smelling great and for being clean.
Mando starter pack is perfect.
You get a solid stick deodorant, a cream tube deodorant, two free products of your choice
plus free shipping.
So if you enjoy this podcast and you want to help support new customers can get $5 off
a starter pack at shopmando.com and using the code Danny.
Again, that's code Danny at shopmando.com S-H-O-P-M-A-N-D-O.com is linked below.
And then you give him his backup and his backup is from Friday.
So when he wakes up on Tuesday, he thinks it's Friday and he doesn't know that he's
murdered.
Right.
And then, but he would want to know once he finds out who killed him.
And that's the underlying premise of doppelganger.
And it basically buys into the concept that someday we won't be able to completely download
a copy of yourself.
Yeah.
Whoa.
And that of course creates all sorts of other possibilities because then you can make doubles
of yourself.
Right.
And then versions of yourself could go off and do things and then come back and put
it all together in one brain.
I mean, there's all sorts of, you know, ways that it could go.
Oh yeah.
That gets scary.
That gets scary quick.
It was to stop tyrannical dictators from just duplicating themselves a thousand times
and spreading themselves all over the world.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
There are certain people I think we can all agree we don't want to have one of them.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So I mean, the reason, one of the reasons that I was fascinated by this and there's really
documentaries that got me into science, I was, I was an English major, you know.
So one of the things that got me into it was, you know, there's philosophy and there's history
and, you know, everybody has an opinion basically when it comes to those kinds of things, when
it comes to the human, human behavior and, and, and human culture.
But science at least has a shot at truly understanding how things work, you know.
And if, if we can get a handle on it, then, you know, so, so we're creating these powerful
AIs, they could help us solve those problems.
There are some wonderful things that artificial intelligence can do.
And there are an incredible technologies we've created that can solve a lot of problems.
But you know, we have to be very careful because I mean, just take nuclear power, you know.
Everything's a double-edged sword.
Every technology going back to the first knife is literally a double-edged sword, you know.
So do you want to kill someone with that knife or do you want to use it to, you know, have
some meat so that you can survive?
So I just think it's all fascinating and we really are coming to a time in, in human
culture where a lot of these problems, big problems can be solved, but they can also
be incredibly dangerous.
So what are we going to do?
Have these scientists that are on the cutting the leading edge of this life extension research,
do they talk to philosophers about this, about this conundrum or like, like how this
affects like the meaning of life or I don't know if you've ever heard of Sheldon Solomon.
He is a, he came on this podcast a few months ago and he wrote a fascinating book.
He's a psychologist.
He wrote a book called The Worm at the Core and basically the premise of it is that fear
of death is the worm at the core of human consciousness and it's the fundamental driver
of human beings and our behaviors.
I have to read that because I agree with that.
Well before he came in, I thought sex was the fundamental driver, but you know, it's,
it doesn't have to be black and white.
There's multiple things, but he makes a really great case for fear of death being the fundamental
driver of human behavior and basically dictates what we do and why we do it.
Well I think, I think that fear is the most powerful emotion, you know, so it drives an
enormous amount of behavior.
I do think that from an evolutionary standpoint, sex living long enough to essentially get
laid, you know, is what it's all about.
I mean, we're just trying to reproduce DNA is using us to reproduce itself.
You know, it's right.
You know, it's like the egg is really making the chicken as opposed to the other way around.
Have you seen, I'm sure you have Westworld?
Yes.
Yeah.
I love the scene where, where Anthony Hopkins is talking to that lady robot in the, in his
underground layer and he was explaining like the Mona Lisa, the Eiffel Tower, the Brooklyn
Bridge, all these great, you know, wonderful pieces of architecture and fine art throughout
history, all is nothing but an elaborate mating call.
It's peacock feathers.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
There's actually, there was a, I can't remember the things called the mating syndrome or something
like that, but that, that was one of the ideas that just like a peacock, you know,
that shows its feathers and says, look how beautiful I am, how powerful I am.
I have great genes.
So you want to mate with me, you know, that being an incredible artist, you know, or being
incredibly charming, you know, you know, the people find all sorts of ways to attract other
people, you know, and it's so important to us to be attracted to other people.
We have to matter, you know, and I think that maybe that, you know, that might play into
the idea of fear because we do many things out of fear because we want to matter, you
know, that might not be the best reason to want to matter.
I mean, hopefully you want to matter because, you know, you want to connect with other people,
you want to fall in love, you want to, you know, love other people, take care of other
people.
But, you know, fear is certainly drives a lot of behavior.
Like am I going to have enough money, you know, am I going to, am I going to find someone
that loves me, you know, whatever that is, am I going to be able to, to get whatever
it is you want, you know, fear is a big, you know, absolutely is driving a lot of that.
And also it would have to, if we knew, if human beings knew that we could live 400,000,
500,000, a million years, it would literally redefine the meaning of what it is to be a
hero or a coward.
Yeah.
You wouldn't, you would have, yeah, those are really interesting questions because if
you literally, if you basically didn't have to worry about dying and you were going to
be healthy the whole time, your whole attitude toward life would completely change.
The political system would change.
Oh, everything changes.
Economics change.
I mean, imagine the economics when you have someone that, I mean, that's one of the questions
people would ask me, they say, well, could you get Social Security for, you know, a thousand
years?
Right.
Are we going to be able to pay for that?
Well, my guess is that if you have a thousand years to live, you're going to have the time
to figure out what it is you really want to do and how you're going to get there to do
it.
And then you're going to, you know, hopefully have a good life.
But you know, there are always going to be bad apples, you know, so you have to factor
that question in.
Another thing that I was discussing with Art Levinson whenever we were meeting was how
rapidly time begins to accelerate as people get older, you know, as people get older,
like when you're four years old, one quarter, one year is one quarter of your life.
So one year is a huge amount of time.
When you're 80, it's one eightieth of your life.
So they're just going by like that, you know, time flies, well, but if you're 500, I mean,
what's your day like, you know, it just must go by like a nanosecond, you know, and how
does that affect the way you see life on a day to day basis?
And you know, and then again, you know, you could say, well, I'm going to learn how to,
you know, play the piano.
I'm going to learn German.
I'm going to travel everywhere in the world because I don't have to worry.
I'll get to it, you know, and you'll actually have the time to do those things, assuming
you can make a living at it.
You know, but one of the things that Hans Morvek said was robots and artificial intelligence
will eventually take care of everything.
And the day you're born, you'll just start getting checks.
It'll be like social security checks because the economy will be run by machines and it
will make, it'll generate tons of money and the rest of us will just get it.
Of course, that raises all sorts of other questions.
Is that really what makes us tick?
You know, I mean, do we want to just sit there and have anything we want?
I don't think we're built that way.
You know, one of the fundamental drivers, like going back to things like the fear of
death or reproduction, that's also one of the main drives for people to innovate and
create new technology.
And if machines take over everything and we suddenly don't have, they're doing this
stuff for us, what does that mean for us?
And what does that mean for innovation?
If we're no longer responsible for innovation.
Right, right.
And this all plays into that question of becoming than the Andersdahls.
You know what I mean?
Right.
If machines take over everything and, you know, it sounds like science fiction, but
it's happening.
You know, I mean, anybody that's looking at chat GPT can see it's happening, you know,
so it's not crazy to be thinking about these things right now.
But so we, that goes back to what I was saying before that we have to find a way to put a
governor on this and we're going to have to, whether we like it or not, somehow augment
ourselves in the way that Ray Kurzweil talks about, you know, using nanotechnology to augment
the brain and the body, because if we don't, we're not going to be able to keep up.
And there'll just be, now again, the machines might be, Hans Morvik would say, well, they
might just create a nice and verdant, you know, zoo for us on earth, you know, and...
Maybe they already have.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Maybe these UFOs are just future humans or AIs that are flying around just doing their
thing and they got us in their own little boxes.
Yeah.
Who knows?
I mean, we, you really don't know for sure.
But if we just, if we just kind of go by the idea that these machines could become incredibly
powerful and they say, okay, we'll just take care of you.
We'll be very nice and we'll go off and run the universe and, but we'll still be the
new Neanderthals.
I mean, you know, we'll, I mean, it'll be nice, you know, but it'll be like a nice zoo.
We can be just like the silverbacks up in Rwanda.
Right.
So, I don't think that's what we want and that's kind of the premise of doppelganger,
you know, that we still want our liberty.
We still want to matter.
We still want to, I mean, I guess in a way want to be the top of the food chain.
So the question is, can we continue, can we use this technology to augment us and become
partners with us, you know, to make a better world, a better, whatever it is we end up
creating or are we going to allow ourselves to be the bug on the windshield?
Right.
And also if we're allowed to, if we're suddenly able to live for thousands of years, how does
that affect the population of the planet and can the planet sustain a trillion people,
trillions of people?
Yeah.
You know, if you think of humanity as like a virus on a living being and suddenly this
virus turns itself into a super virus that can outlive, that can live forever, how does
that affect the planet because it's, you know, we're not necessarily good for the planet.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's the first question anyone would ask me when they were reading the book or,
you know, would find out what the premise of the book was, you know, and by the way,
the book doesn't say, hey, I believe that this is what we should have happen, although
I do believe that if there was suddenly a pill that was provided one day and which one
of us would say, nah, I don't really want that pill, you know, I don't want to live
forever.
I see these guys if they thought about that though.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In some ways they have, in some ways they haven't, you know, because, you know, Ray Kurzweil,
you know, I'm a big, I really think a lot of his work.
But he's an optimist, you know, and he doesn't really think, he just says technology will
solve all of it.
Right.
You know, I don't think it's, you know, politics don't help the situation.
If it was a, you know, if everyone was in agreement, maybe we would, you know, but that's not,
I mean, politically, if something like this starts to happen, it's going to be crazy.
But, you know, we're trying to go back to your original question.
Overpopulation.
The question of overpopulation, I do think that, so look, it's going to happen.
Here's my opinion.
It's going to happen.
People are going to start living longer and they're going to start living better.
So we better start figuring out how to solve that problem.
Clearly, you can't put trillions of people on the planet.
I think once, in one of the meetings I was at, you know, for one of the documentaries
I was working on, a scientist said 11 billion people is about, is about what we can sustain.
And we're getting there.
So yeah, we're close, right?
How many people on the planet right now?
8 billion?
8 billion, yeah.
So and it's happening fast.
I mean, I think whenever I was writing last day of standing was 6 and a half billion,
you know, so it wasn't that long ago.
So it's moving fast.
So the, so we're going to have to solve this problem somehow or another and clearly you
have to go off planet.
And so you have to solve the problem.
I, you know, I wish I had a simple solution to it, but, you know, whenever people would
talk to me about this, I would go, yeah, how are we going to solve that problem?
And then I went, oh, wait, we got a bigger problem.
It's not, it's going to happen and people aren't going to say no to it.
So we better dig in or maybe, maybe this is only available to like the super rich billionaires
or the people that run the world and maybe only they get it and they keep it.
That's, I mean, that's, if you want to get dark, maybe they keep it secret.
It could, I mean, certainly right now, people that, people are very wealthy who have access
to, you know, the best technology that's keeping them healthier, longer, you know, and better.
And that is true now.
Zuckerberg with all of his doomsday bunkers.
Right, right, right.
And they, you know, it could go that way.
I mean, that's, that's about the politics.
It could get dark.
I hope it doesn't, because generally what you see is that over across human history
as technologies that used to be exotic become more mainstream, you know, you know, nobody
used to have, you know, running water or toilets, you know, now everybody has them.
Well, almost everybody, you know, nobody had access to sulfa drugs or, or, you know, those
kinds of things.
And now they're almost free.
So same thing with cell phones, you know, I mean, they're ubiquitous now.
It used to be only a couple of people had them.
So the hope is that new technologies will get cheaper and then become more available.
But it does, we do have this problem where there's a zero sum issue and, and they had
to have, I mean, these guys have to have thought about that, right?
If they think that 11 billion is the cap for the population, like, what is their plan?
Because we're getting there quick.
And we haven't, we're not even close to getting human beings off this planet.
We have put someone on the moon and in what, since what, 70s?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
70s.
I think that was the last one.
I, I, those people haven't thought about it, to be honest.
I mean, like I said, Rick Kurzweil will basically say, you know, we'll solve it.
Science will solve it somehow.
Someone like our Levinson basically says, I don't expect to, to survive this.
He goes, I'll probably pass away, but I'm hoping that I'll pass it along, you know,
to the next generation and we'll solve the problem.
How old is he?
He's 74.
So I mean, he's got, he's in, he's in great shape and sharp as can be.
But you know, Craig Venture, the same thing, you know, I think biology is incredibly complex.
So we'll see, you know, how, how well we really solve this problem and how quickly we solve
it.
And Rick Kurzweil says, we'll solve it, you know, by the 2030s, doesn't mean we will.
Biology, he's a, you know, he's an engineer.
He's not a biologist.
When you talk with someone like Art Levinson, he goes, it's super, super complex.
But one thing he did say in the first time I met him, he said, I don't know that we can
solve this problem at all.
He said, I don't even know if it's solvable.
He said, but we're going to give it a shot.
And then halfway through, while I was continuing to interview him and do research, he said,
yes, we can solve it.
And it was because they had found evidence that there were mammals that seemingly live,
you know, they don't die from aging, you know.
So he said, there are switches in the, in, in mammals like us that can be flipped.
And so we can solve the problem.
He goes, but it might take 20 years, might take 30 years, might take 50 years.
But he did tell me the last time I talked to him, he said, it's that, it's that whale.
You saw the bowhead whale and what else?
Bowhead whale and a naked mole rat.
Naked mole rat.
Interesting.
Those are my backyard.
Well, the naked mole rats, one of the ugliest animals you've ever seen, but they, they,
they live, most rats live three, four years.
These live 34 years.
And then they, how do they die?
Well, they die from, like if they had an aneurysm or, you know, or another rat killed it or,
you know, but they don't die from aging.
They're still having sex right up to the day they drop.
Wow.
You know, no problem.
I mean, it's just not age, aging, you know?
So when he saw that, you know, he went, okay, we can figure it out, but I don't know how
long it's going to take to figure it out.
He said, but there's something in the genome that's flipping those switches.
And, you know, it's just a matter of time before we find it.
What kind of technology do you think we would use to, to fuck with the genome or to get
in there and tweak the DNA and try to flip those switches?
Are there any technologies that are already being used that could be improved or is it
have to be like a completely innovative new thing?
Well, CRISPR can do it.
CRISPR can do it.
CRISPR can go in and, and flip.
It can edit genes, you know?
So it just, you just have to get better and better at it.
And right now we're using biology to do it.
If you get to the point where you have nanomachines that could go in and just say, okay, there's
the, first of all, you have to find the genes, you know, there might be multiple genes.
And then you have to find out how are they expressing themselves and when do they express
themselves.
And then you've got to go in and have a machine or, you know, some kind of biology that's
going to go in and find it and, and fix it, change it.
You know, I mean, they've already come up with a drug that fixes sickle cell anemia,
you know?
Really?
That's a genetic problem.
How long ago did they find that?
Well, I shouldn't say that they've solved it.
I think they're in the process of thinking that they've solved it.
You know, they're, they're doing tests, testing and, and that's a genetic disease.
And if you can go in and there was a guy that a couple of years ago who changed the genes
of two children that had genes for HIV.
Really?
And the, the, the, the bad thing he did was he did it without telling the parents that
he did it.
Damn.
Can you find, is this a, can we find this online?
Yeah, yeah.
I wish I had a name for it, but I'll find it.
Changed, changed, doctor changed the DNA of people with an HIV gene.
Two, two twins, two twin children.
And they had, they had a legacy gene.
I think it was HIV.
They had a legacy gene, the result of HIV.
Is this it?
Oh, yeah.
It looks like he acted on his own.
Yeah.
All right.
Cool.
Let's see what we got.
China says a doctor who claimed using CRISPR to make gene-edited babies acted on his own.
All right.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
This is a, excuse me.
Can you punch in a little bit?
These investigators determined that the doctor behind the reported births of two babies whose
genes had been edited in hopes to making them resistant to AIDS virus acted on his own and
will be punished for any violations of the law, state media reported on Monday.
Investigators in the Southern province of Guangdong determined doctor, he, I'm not even
going to try to say that, Jiangqiu, organized and handled funding for the experiment without
outside assistance and violation of national guidelines.
Wow.
But was it successful?
Well, he says it was.
I mean, there's-
I guess you can't prove it.
Right?
I mean, I guess you can do a genetic test and see if they have the gene, you know, and
or if it's not or I guess more accurately don't have the gene.
But yeah, what, do you know what the laws are when it comes to CRISPR in the U.S. or in
different countries?
Everything has to be done, you know, peer reviewed.
It's got to be, you know, FDA, at least in the United States, you know, has to be sanctioned
by the FDA and you have to do testing and, you know, and they have very strict rules
about how you have to do that stuff.
So, and then it has to all be peer reviewed and everything, so.
It sounds impossible.
I mean, it sounds like progress would be so, I wouldn't say impossible, but so sluggish
for progress to happen.
Like how do you know that you can remove these things from a human genome and remove cancer
if you're not allowed to test it?
Well, you can test it and you just have to, you know, go through the FDA approval system.
And that's why there's a lot of people that are doing work in Costa Rica and, you know-
Oh, really?
Yeah, Bangkok, Thailand, and, you know, Baja, you know, California, I mean.
Yeah, you have to go down there just to get like stem cell treatment.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I think you can do it here though.
You can.
It's just way more expensive, maybe.
You can and it has to be, but it's has to be prescribed.
Like you can get your shoulder injected, you know, or you can, and as long as what you're
doing is you're basically taking fat cells from your own body and then spinning those
out as stem cells and then re-injecting those into your own body.
There are people that are also using stem cells from other stem cell lines that aren't
yours and using those to boost people.
It's sort of in the way that they use, I think it's called PRP, you know, with baseball
players and that sort of thing where you're using, you know, plasma, you know, injections
to, you know, to kind of boost your system.
From other people?
No, from themselves in that case.
But yeah, they're definitely people.
In fact, Robert O'Reary already, you know, says take your own stem cells and put them
in a refrigerator.
Really?
Yeah.
And save them.
Don't people save, like, um, the umbilical cords of their babies?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I highly recommend it.
Really?
Yeah.
Because, you know, did I do it?
Yeah.
Do you save the umbilical cords of your children or do you have kids?
I don't know if you have kids or not.
I have kids, but they were two, they were, that was before that.
Yeah.
Okay.
And it was before you could do that.
I would have absolutely.
Because basically, you know.
They make it super expensive too.
Well, it's more expensive than you want.
Yeah.
And again, it would be nice if this sort of thing would go mainstream, you know.
But the FDA is kind of watches that too.
But Bob O'Reary is the guy, he's in the book, he's the guy, the first guy to figure that
out.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He was, he was a guy that, I mean, he was, he was a trauma surgeon and so he was actually
dealing one day with a woman whose husband had been massively damaged, you know, brain
damage in a car accident.
And he was trying to console her and trying to figure out, how could I help this guy?
And he went down and his own child before she was born was, his wife is getting a sonogram.
And he's looking at the sonogram and he goes, wow, he goes, there's the embryo.
And then there's this big mass there.
And he realized it was the placenta.
And he goes, wow, he goes, that's big.
What's it doing?
You know?
And what's it, what it's doing is it's pumping tons of stem cells into the baby.
And so he said, we just tossed this stuff in the garbage literally, you know, it's called
the afterbirth.
And he said, so when he said, I realized that what it is is a stem cell factory.
And he said, so that's what he's been working on for 25 years is, and he's, he's making
real progress now in trying to create medicine where you can use the stem cells, your own
stem cells or your children's stem cells and, you know, create a medicine so that you can
either inject or take a pill that would solve problem.
An example would be sarcopenia, which is muscle wasting.
Now everybody gets muscle wasting disease as they age.
Just part of what aging is.
Sarcopenia is something that get, you get, you know, when you're younger and so they
try to solve that problem and it's very difficult to solve.
It's genetic.
So what he's, what he, that's one of the first things he wants to do is to be able to solve
that for aging because as he pointed out, he said, when a 30 year old man has turned
60, he's lost 60, you know, he's just using men, men as an example.
He's lost 60% of his muscle mass.
And he said, when you lose 60% of your muscle mass, you're not just losing muscle.
You're losing almost 100% bone mass too.
You're losing vascular capability.
That's, that's most of your vascular system is in your muscle and that's what's delivering
your immune system.
That's what's delivering all the nutrients to your body.
And so you're just going downhill.
And so he figures if he can come up with a way to re-boost, you know, muscle mass, then
you're boosting the whole system.
Interesting.
You know, so there's, that's where I think the first breakthroughs, I wrote this when
the book came out, I wrote an article in the Hill and, and I basically said, I think there
are four things that are going to happen, you know, within the next, at that time, five
to 10 years.
So now we're four years in, you know, first stem cells, which will boost and, and lengthen
a healthy life.
And the second thing is, uh, genomics, I mean, we're rapidly, and AI is helping this,
uh, you know, we're rapidly figuring out what's going on with the human genome, you know,
which, what the hell, I mean, it's so complicated.
And, uh, and the third thing is really under, you know, what Calico is working on, really
trying to understand what are those switches.
Once you understand that genomics well enough, then what are the systems in the body that
are causing aging and then turn them off.
And then AI is absolutely necessary to figuring that out because you're not going to get
a bench scientist that can get down there and look at cells and, and figure it out.
It's all happening way too fast.
So the guy who was in the violent car accident, was he able to help him at all with stem cells?
No, because, um, well, first of all, uh, it was just the concept, you know, that it was
like the light bulb went off, but then he had to figure out, well, what's the placenta
and you had to do all sorts of research and everything.
He has more degrees than, and is there a difference between using the placenta and the umbilical
cord?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The umbilical cord is what is the connection between, uh, the placenta and the baby and
the mother.
Okay.
You know, so they're, you know, but it's, it's this little engine that's just, it's
what makes them cells.
So you want to save the placenta?
Yes.
Yeah.
Milk accord.
Right.
Right.
But people do also, there's a lot in the cord blood.
Cord blood.
Okay.
A lot of people do that.
Uh, but if, if I were giving advice to anybody and I'm not a doctor, but you know, I would
say look into, if you're having a child, you know, saving the placenta, don't throw away
the afterbirth.
And what is the benefit of having the placenta of your own child versus people who just get
stem cells from, how does it work?
Otherwise, does people just get random stem cells?
That's a really great question.
It's a really important one too.
Um, if you, uh, are using your own stem cells, then they recognize themselves.
And so they, they will literally go in and boost you.
Okay.
You know, if it's somebody else's cells, then what happens, uh, is they'll go in and
your body goes, okay, this is boosting.
And there are these, uh, um, communicators called exosomes that every cell has and they,
and they create the communication between different cells and there's billions and billions
of them in, in every cell.
And so what happens is when somebody else's stem cells are injected, they're released
and they seem to boost your own cells, but the stem cells themselves, you know, within
a week or just, you know, go out of your system.
But if they're your own stem stem cells, then let's say, uh, I don't know.
Let's say you have heart problem, you know, and you get your, uh, your body injected with
your own stem cells into your own body, your body's going to start, you know, looking around
for trouble because that's what it does.
That's what stem cells do.
They, they're replenishing your body all the time and it's going to find trouble and it's
going to fix it.
But even like a jammed artery, you can do that.
Well, it'll make it younger, you know, it'll make it more pliable and make it, you know,
it may not get rid of the plaque, you know, but, uh, it'll make it, you know, be able
to handle it better.
Son of a bitch, Steve, I have to have another kid now.
I thought I was done.
It's wild.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, you know, uh, even it's still not too late.
I mean, no matter how old any of us is and or how old your children are, it's, it's, it's
relatively simple to, uh, save your own stem cells.
So if you have young children, you can still save their, yeah, you can, you can have the
fat, you know, have some pad pulled out.
And once you, once you have the stem cell, then you can create lines of stem cells, you
know, so you can create millions and millions of stem cells that are all identical copies.
Okay.
And so it's not like you need to constantly re-inject.
So where do I take my baby?
Uh, I got a one year old.
Oh, wow.
Congratulate.
Can I just go to CVS and take the stem cells?
Uh, wouldn't that be nice?
Let's, let's, let's get, let's get to that soon.
Is there a drive-through?
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I mean, I'll put you in touch with Bob Hariri.
Really?
Yeah.
He created the first company to, to save placental stem cells.
Oh, wow.
In fact, I think he did cord blood first.
So what are some of these guys that, some of these like, you know, big shots that are
working on this stuff, what are they, are they doing any kind of crazy protocols themselves
to stay younger, to like make themselves last to where, I know like Ray Kurzweil talks
about he takes a bunch of vitamins and stuff, but like, are there any like crazy things
that they do to make themselves younger besides stem cells?
I honestly don't know because they haven't shared with me.
I'm pretty sure that, uh, uh, well, Peter Diamandis, who is, uh, one of the founders
with Bob Hariri of Fountain Life, it's called, uh, he's been pretty open about using stem
cells in his own body.
Uh, Ray Kurzweil hasn't, but I'd be surprised if he hasn't because he's been talking about
this stuff for a long time.
Right.
And, uh, he's close friends with Peter Diamandis.
They work together.
Um, I don't think Art Levinson is doing anything, uh, but if, if he creates a drug that comes
out of the work at Calico, I'm sure he would, you know, uh, but, but his, his, his hope
is that there'll be like a drug now it could be outrageously expensive at first, but eventually
once the drugs created 15 years later, you know, the patent expires and then it's, it
can be used by anybody.
Yeah.
It gets way cheaper.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a, that's a scary thing too.
Like when the pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical companies bid on these things and drive the
prices up and, you know,
Yeah.
They spend, you know, they spend billions of dollars.
You know, I think it depends on the company.
Some of these companies I think are really well run and, and they're, and they're doing
things the right way, you know, they spend billions and billions of dollars.
So they've got to recoup those costs.
Otherwise they'd go out of business.
But I think some of them are predatory and that's been proven, you know, so you just
have to, yeah.
Yeah.
Let's look at the lawsuits.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
And, you know, so you just have to hope that the predators don't win on, on that count.
But again, it, it raises all these other issues that we've talked about.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a, this can, what's, what's, I think interesting at this time of human
history is that there's this convergence of incredibly powerful technologies, not just
one technology.
It's not like just nuclear power, you know, or rocket science or something like that.
Or the internet.
It's, it's artificial intelligence, which is rapidly moving forward.
And it's, you know, these, these drugs that are, you know, going to change the way people
live.
The internet itself, you know, creates communication in ways that are both good and bad that change
politics and economics are changing rapidly.
And what, you know, people would say, you know, what's going to happen in the future?
And my answer is it's going to get more complicated.
It's just going to get more and more complex.
Now is there going to be a way to using some of these genome technologies to essentially
like take a sample of your blood and do some sort of a minority report analysis of like
everything that's going to happen to you in the future?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's that I think is part of the genomics question, you know, that kind of phase two.
Because once you, like I've already had my genome sequenced, but it doesn't help me a
whole lot.
How does that work?
Getting your genome sequenced?
Yeah, essentially, essentially, they take blood and then there are machines that will
sequence, you know, take a look at your genes because Craig Venture was one of the first
people to sequence the first human genome.
So you know how to sequence the genome.
So you go, okay, this is what your genome says.
The problem is it's like reading hieroglyphs, you know, that you don't know what it means.
You know, it's just a whole lot of information and you go, yeah, what does that mean?
And so that's why one of the things that Venture was initially trying to do was get a million
genomes in a database so that you can then, the more information you have, it's like the
more you understand Japanese, you know, the better you speak the language.
So the more data you have of the human genome, then the more information you can put together
and say, oh, okay, these do this, this does this, this does this.
And this, you know, does this for you, you know.
So once we get to that point, then you would have the sort of situation where you say,
okay, we're sequencing your genome.
And now we know you're going to have atrial fibrillation, you know, probably around age
60, you know, or you're going to start to have basket or problems at such and such a
time or, you know, I mean, we'll simply know that your eyes are blue and you know, what
color your hair is, that kind of thing.
It's going to be much more, and that's when you can begin to tailor drugs.
I mean, one of the reasons when every time you see those commercials that are on, you
know, television that say, get this drug, and by the way, this, this, this and a long
list of horrible things that can happen to you.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, the reason why that is is because everyone genome is different and for some
people it works and for some people it's lethal, you know, I mean, that's why you see,
you know, concerns of people have about COVID and vaccination.
Some people, the vaccinations are not good, but the vast majority they are, you know,
so everyone's genome is different and the goal is that you get to the point where you
can look at every, you know, your genome and everybody else's genome and go, we know exactly
what kinds of problems they're going to have and now we can build the drugs to address
those problems.
Right.
I mean, who knows?
Maybe the nanotechnology already have kicked in.
Yeah.
So many things working at once.
Yeah.
Robotics, that's another big issue.
It's rapidly moving forward.
Robotics.
Robotics.
I mean, we've got machines now that can, you know, play soccer, can't knock them down.
Yeah.
You know, I mean, they're, they're amazing, you know, so what would they be doing?
Yeah.
And then put them together with AI.
Yeah.
There was a story a couple of months ago, I think I saw that there was some sort of
killer robots that they were putting on the streets in San Francisco or something.
I think, I think I, yeah, I saw something about that on the internet and I'm not sure
it's real.
Yeah.
It looks, doesn't, something about it, it doesn't look.
I heard that it was like something that they had in the works or something like that and
then it got so much push, like backlash and media attention when it came out.
They were like, okay, let's just show off this.
Yeah.
What was this?
It was a, it was a headline somewhere.
It was like law enforcement are using killer robots in somewhere in Northern California.
I want to say it was San Francisco to free for law enforcement robots that had the autonomy
to kill.
Yeah.
Yeah.
To pick up a, yeah.
An AR.
There it is.
Yeah.
San Francisco police department may resubmit proposal for killer robots after policy
was blocked.
So it was a policy that was put forward.
Oh, wow.
Robots with the ability to use deadly force may be back on the agenda in San Fran.
Wow.
That's just like a year ago.
That's kind of my room.
Dude, San Francisco is insane.
Me and Steven were just there a couple of months ago and it was like, you can't, people
are allowed to break into cars.
Oh yeah.
They're not penalized.
What?
Yeah.
It's crazy.
Like he, like the guy we were going to visit there, he was like, he was like, don't leave
anything valuable in your car, whether you lock it or not.
He's like, it's going to get broken into.
We were, we're walking to lunch and there was like at least two cars that we saw with
purses laying next to them, nothing left, just like a couple of like useless things
scattered like throughout the road.
And he's like, yeah, he's like, this is just normal.
They just loot cars and they don't, they don't get in trouble for it.
That sounds crazy.
Yeah.
I used to be the bureau chief at CNN and it was very different then.
It was a great city.
Oh, in San Francisco.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
That was in the 80s.
Oh, wow.
You know, it was a, it was a perfect city then.
It's a beautiful, it's, I mean, the geography and the weather and just the, just the landscape
there.
That's why everybody is there.
The ocean.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And yeah, it's unfortunate.
It's starting to feel like New York now.
And it wasn't like that when I used to.
When's the last time you were there?
Oh, I was there just a couple of years ago when I saw Kurzweil.
Oh, really?
He has offices there.
He actually has an apartment there.
So I, I was like, wow, it's gotten so big.
Yeah.
So much traffic and everything.
It's too bad.
Yeah.
So I guess this killer robot thinks on the shelf for now, but they're going to resubmit
it.
We'll see what happens.
This is my favorite quote from the thing.
It's too soon.
It's triggering.
It's painful that when you're discussing ways to kill us, how maybe an officer could
be protected by having a robot kill us instead of the officer.
Yeah.
Right.
Maybe it'll be better.
You know, maybe the robots will be able to make better decisions.
I think so.
Stephen, he really, really trusts the future of AI.
He trusts, you know, he can't wait until cars are able to pick us up and drive us to
where we're going and robot police.
And no human.
He wants robot police.
Yeah.
It's getting very, very close.
I mean, they're making, they're making them in Pittsburgh.
I mean, that's where they, they created the first self self-driving cars.
So, yeah, I'm for that.
I'm just scared about when it gets to like minority report level to where it's like,
we know you're going to commit a crime in next week.
So when you catch this Uber to the airport today, you're not going to be able to get
out.
You're going straight to prison.
And then something yesterday I saw on Twitter, they're creating this new, this new prison
technology where if you go to prison, you'll have the option.
You can either go to jail for 10 years or you can be downloaded into the, you get put
into this like matrix looking pod where they scramble your brain and wire you with, with
new memories.
What?
This is real?
I swear.
Yeah.
You can find this easily.
If you just Google new memory implants for prisoners, you'll find it'll be the top thing.
That is right out of where they basically rebuild your whole life and they, depending
on how violent your crime was, click on the, click on the link.
That is science fiction.
That is nuts.
It's wired.
Yeah.
That's it.
This is it.
Prisons of the future.
Prisons of the future.
Criminals could get false memory implants.
There's a, there's a really cool video if you can find it, it's probably on this article
if you scroll down.
Oh my God.
Why am I blanking out on the famous PJ?
Keep going.
Go back.
And then prisoners, click that.
Is this, is this?
No, that's Facebook.
Don't click that.
Click on the YouTube one.
There you go.
There we go.
Okay.
Yeah.
There's some volume here.
A facility designed to treat criminals like patients.
Instead of spending years in an actual prison cell, prisoners could finish their sentence
here in just a few minutes.
Cognify could someday create and implant artificial memories directly into the prisoner's brain.
These complex, vivid and lifelike memories are created in real-time using AI-generated
content.
Depending on the seriousness of the subject's crime and their sentence, the memories could
be tailored to the rehabilitation needs of each subject.
The artificial memories implanted by Cognify would be seamlessly incorporated into the
existing neural networks of the brain, preventing cognitive dissonance and ensuring the subject
experiences the memories as if they were real.
The Cognify concept offers a new approach to criminal rehabilitation, transforming how
society deals with offenders by focusing on rehabilitation rather than punishment.
First, the prisoner is given a choice, either spending tens of years in a prison cell or
seeking fast-track rehabilitation through artificial memory implantation.
If the prisoner chooses to undergo fast-track rehabilitation, the Cognify device is used.
Next, the prisoner undergoes high-resolution brain scanning to create a detailed map of
their neural pathways.
This brain map helps guide the Cognify device to target specific brain regions responsible
for memory, reasoning, and logical thinking, such as the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex,
amygdala, parietal lobe, and anterior cingulate cortex.
Once the target brain regions are identified, Cognify is then placed around the head of
the prisoner.
The intensity and the type of artificial memories is then adjusted depending on the crime.
Inside the criminal's mind, time would pass differently, slower than in real life, making
them experience years' worth of artificial memories in just a few minutes.
This just came out a couple days ago.
So how would this work?
Would this Cognify company have to pay these prisons or something?
How do you incentivize the prisons to work with this company and do all this?
Well, investors, I'm sure, would ante up if they thought there was any chance that there
was a true business here.
You would have to get, I mean, in the United States would be massive numbers of FDA approvals
that would have to pass because if you scramble someone's brain the wrong way, I don't even
know that we understand memory.
So I don't know where you stick the chip even.
This is not a simple problem to solve.
It might be something that feels to me like it's good marketing.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is a terrifying video.
Yeah, yeah.
That's exactly what it is, total recall.
But what would you do, though, if you had 10 years in prison or to go, forgive this
a shot?
If it looked like it was going to work, I'd say, yeah.
Hell yeah.
I mean, I just say, I think most people might, yeah, yeah, you saved 10 years of your life,
you know, plus theoretically, you're happier.
But what is your, but are you basically a new person when you get out?
Like, are you like dying and being reborn?
Well, that's one of the questions you'd have to ask, would you recognize your wife or your
kids if you had any?
That's wild.
It's so unknown.
The future is so unknown.
It's terrifying.
I mean, I believe that something like this is possible eventually, but I don't think we're
very close to it yet.
Thankfully, we don't have to, but it's actually a good indication of the many, many kinds
of complex problems we'll have to solve, you know, and can we really solve them?
I mean, we don't move very fast, you know, doing this.
Technology is moving way faster than we're moving politically or legally, you know.
Yes.
It's definitely leaving us in the dust.
Yeah.
And that's one of the ironies.
I mean, it's just advancing so rapidly and our old-fashioned wetwear DNA just can't keep
up.
Yeah, you really see that with social media and just with the way that media moves around
so quickly.
And it's so much easier because there's such an overwhelming amount of information now.
Like, you know, 20 years ago, even 10 years ago, it wasn't hard to go figure out, you
know, figure out what was going on in some other part of the world or what happened.
But now it's like, there's so many different sources of the same story that are all so
different and have different takes depending on political bias or what country it's coming
from or what nation, and it's just, it's overwhelmingly difficult to figure out the truth about anything
because you have to literally read 10 sources of one story to find out the truth.
Most people are just lazy.
They just want to read one and then they think they've got to figure it out.
And it's just got us in this weird, weird place.
So now you say, well, I can't handle all of it, so I'll have chat GPT write me a summary.
Well, what's it summarizing?
Right.
Is it summarizing the truth?
Is it summarizing some version of the truth?
Is it summarizing, you know, how accurate is it?
If you believe it, I think one of the big ironies of all this is that the very thing
that is kind of undoing us and creating this world that's so complex and so difficult for
us to live in is the same thing that we love about it.
We love the internet, you know, we love stories, you know, we love drama.
And a lot of times we love things that aren't really very pretty as long as it's not us that's
getting, you know, I mean, how many car accidents do you just drive by and not look at?
You know, I mean, we're immediately drawn to them, you know, and so that's what makes news,
you know, you know, and so these kind of primal drives that we have are getting us,
you know, we have these primal drives on the one hand.
This is what Last Ape Standing was all about.
And then we have these technologies that we're creating that are incredibly complex.
And it's, and we're putting ourselves in a really tough spot.
That's like a negative feedback loop almost.
Yeah, yeah.
So we, and that's why I, you know, my big thing right now is let's just think real hard about
what we're doing and not just say, oh, wow, isn't this cool?
You know, or even to be just saying, well, let's make sure that we don't have somebody's voice,
you know, pretending there's somebody else, you know, what you can do or somebody's face
looking like somebody else's, you know, those are important things to keep an eye on.
But the bigger, bigger, you know, the much bigger question is this, this can replace us,
you know, and there's, there's something called emergent technology or emergent behaviors,
uh, which have been around since John Stuart Mill wrote about them 150 years ago.
And it's like when the Big Bang took place, there was so much data created,
then something totally new came about galaxies and stars.
The same thing happens when a beehive is created.
Do you get enough bees together?
It creates a hive and the hive is very different than the bees.
It's an emergent trait.
You know, so this, it's the same thing whenever we became conscious,
you know, you simply had enough neurons, you know, billions of neurons that
suddenly something went, oh, I'm aware.
I'm self aware.
And that's an emergent trait.
There's no reason why that can't happen with machines.
You get enough data, they'll just one day go, hmm, I'm me.
Right.
And you're different from me.
I have rights.
I have feelings.
I have thoughts.
So, you know, we don't want that to happen.
Yeah, we don't.
It's just, yeah, it seems like we are just going to have to, to bend the knee
and to integrate somehow.
But yeah, I don't know what that looks like.
Well, it starts with conversations.
Yeah.
You know, like this.
Yeah, definitely.
You start to make people just think a little harder about what's really going on
and try to, you know, step back from it and say, let's try to be smart about how we're doing this.
You know, there are downstream ramifications from every technology.
And, you know, most of the time we haven't known what they would be.
I mean, when, you know, Ford created the assembly line
and suddenly everybody could have a car.
We didn't know that we were going to be, you know, burning down the planet with carbon,
you know, too much carbon.
So maybe we can learn from that, you know, and we can look at something like this and say,
okay, let's try to figure out, we can even use AI to help us figure out what could be the undoing
of us.
In going, also going back to, we were talking about earlier with the different kinds of mammals
that they don't age.
And it seems like I was thinking about this when I was reading your book, The Last Ape Standing,
that there are, when it comes to different types of animal species, like specifically whales,
or most animal species, there's such a wide variety of them, right?
Like whales and dolphins and sharks and fish and everything else.
But when it comes to us, there's no variety.
There's basically one basic standard cut out of a human and there's no evolutionary drift
much.
You know what I mean?
There's such a wide gap between us and the next primate.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, that was pretty much what Last Ape Standing was about.
From the research that I did over the last 7 million years, you know, when the first hominin
kind of emerged, there've been, I think now 29 hominin or human creatures that evolved.
And at one point, at least five were living simultaneously throughout the planet.
Probably a lot more.
We just don't know about them because you only find what you find.
You know, there's some fossils are hard to find.
But there were Denisophans, there were Neanderthals, there were Homo sapiens,
there were Homo erectus, and there were...
Fluorensis.
Yeah, the Fluorensis.
And so those are five that 75,000 years ago were, and we were actually barely surviving.
You know, there were only probably a couple of thousand of us because
most of Africa had been decimated.
We don't know if it was a huge volcanic eruption.
70,000 years ago.
I mean, 70,000, 75,000 years.
Yeah, right.
So, you know, the fact that...
So there were lots of other creatures and they were highly intelligent, you know,
very bright and doing just fine.
I mean, Neanderthals were around for, I don't know, almost 300,000 years, 400,000 years.
And they survived three ice ages up in Europe.
Whereas we were down in Africa, it was much warmer.
So that was the essential question of last day of standing.
Why are we the only one left?
And essentially, we seem to be slightly more flexible.
We're more adaptable.
And the thinking that I came away with, and it was that we're born very young.
Yes.
You know, it's a trait called neotony, which means a creature is born young.
And it's kind of...
Takes us forever to be able to survive and take care of ourselves.
Right.
Most animals are born and they got a couple hours to figure it out.
Right.
Wildebeest hits the ground, comes out of the womb, and he's already up and running,
you know, a horse, same thing, you know.
And that was probably more true of some of these other species.
But because of the size of our heads, we couldn't have the baby...
He couldn't keep the baby in the mother any longer than nine months.
You had to get the baby out.
And evolution taught us that nine months was it.
Now, when a human baby comes out in nine months, after nine months of gestation,
they're helpless.
And for the next four years, their brain is growing in an incredible clip.
So basically, a lot of what happens in the womb with other animals is happening
outside the womb with us.
And what that means is your personal experience is being changed by the neurons
that are rapidly developing in your brain.
So you're not being driven by your genetics.
You're being driven by your genetics and your experience.
And so, you know, if you're hearing music, if you're, you know, being,
you know, your parents are really tuned in, if depending on where you're living,
a million different things that are going on in your brain whenever you're a year old.
And there is an enormous amount of brain cells that are being made at that age.
You know, it's shaping literally you.
And that's why we're so unique.
Each of us is not so much like a horse, another horse.
Some horses and dogs and everything are different, but they're not as different as we are.
And they're not as smart as we are.
And they're not as pliable and creative as we are.
And again, ironically, because of that, we were able to create these technologies
and then build on them and learn from them, create language and create writing,
you know, all things that enable us to build on the past
so that we get culturally more and more intelligent.
But why is there such a big gap between us and the net?
Well, like, why is there such a big gap between us and the next primate?
Like, why don't we see any sort of like middle ground?
And why don't we see apes evolving still?
Or do we?
They're evolving just slow.
And we're evolving slowly too, but our culture moves rapidly.
You know, I think the answer to that is, for one reason or another,
and they're probably multiple reasons, all of those other highly intelligent creatures
that were around when we were are gone.
They were way more intelligent than your average chimpanzee, you know, but they're gone.
Now, we played a role probably with Denisovans and Neanderthals,
because we moved into territory where, first of all, they were struggling.
And there were maybe 100,000 Neanderthals spread from Britain to the Atlas Mountains.
You know, that's just not very many people over that brought a space.
And so they didn't build cultures as rapidly as we did.
We were just more successful at procreating.
And then we built tools that were probably a little better than their tools.
And so we just started taking over their territory.
And it may have been just simply that.
And we might have also just mated with them and kind of overrun them, you know, genetically.
Because you probably have Neanderthal genes in you.
I have 4%, and I think it's 8% of my genes are Neanderthal.
So somebody was mating with somebody somewhere down the road there.
And so, you know, for one reason or another, they just got wiped out,
you know, by 30,000 years ago.
And my guess is probably more like 20,000 years ago, the last of them departed.
And the same thing happened with Denisovans who moved more toward Asia.
And, you know, the other ones probably just couldn't survive, you know.
I mean, every species goes extinct.
99% of all species are extinct, you know.
So eventually, everyone goes the way of the dinosaur.
Do you think the timeline for humans has been linear?
Like perfectly linear?
Like it's thought of conventionally?
Like we started out as apes and we just progressively got better and more technological?
Or do you think there was any sort of like recess?
Do you think it's possible that there was a more advanced version of us?
In the past.
In the past.
Well, the fossil evidence doesn't indicate that yet.
You know, we haven't found any, you know, fossils of more advanced creatures.
Although, how we would know that is hard because all you've got left is bone.
And you only get so much DNA.
But from a scientific point of view, I mean, I think there are probably theories about that.
But from a scientific point of view, there hasn't been anything found that said,
oh, here's a creature that's smarter than we were.
Neanderthals actually had a larger brain than we did,
and they may have even had more neurons than we did.
But how they were put together, nobody really knows.
They may not have had, they probably didn't have speech that was as complex as ours,
just because of the way their throats were.
But, and that just might have been a fluke.
You know, we might have just gotten lucky that we could make the sounds that we make,
and we were able to use them to communicate.
I mean, it's kind of odd when you think about it, I'm sitting here making noises at you.
And you're hearing these noises, and somehow you know what they mean.
You know, and we just make these noises back and forth.
You know, when you go out to other countries and you hear somebody speaking a different language,
it just sounds like gibberish, you know, but we're able to do it.
It's a, you know, it's a really smart technology.
And I don't know if Neanderthals could do that.
And if they couldn't, it meant that they couldn't communicate as effectively,
and therefore they couldn't build tools and culture as rapidly.
And so, you know, when they just couldn't survive it.
And there's also, you talk about the symbolic thinking that came about,
and like how we were able to communicate with symbols,
and how that expanded the brain somehow.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, and so that's, I was lucky enough for National Geographic to,
they asked me to try to track down the first artists,
you know, which is basically the first symbols.
And so I spent a lot of time for that article doing that.
And maybe around a hundred thousand years ago,
something happened where we were able to say,
oh, this thing stands for an idea, you know,
or this sound means a particular letter, you know.
But somehow we were able to, you know, symbolize an idea.
I mean, it sounds obvious, but think about it.
And when you see, I don't know, a logo, you know,
and you go, oh, I know that means Nike, you know.
Being able to do that is what makes language possible, art possible.
Word, you know, words, the written word, you know.
I mean, imagine you're,
there's probably so many things that were created and then lost,
because you had no way to save them, you know, except to talk.
You know, so when that person died, then their ideas went away,
you know, when you were able then to write, you know,
hieroglyphs or whatever, and you could save ideas,
then you could build on those ideas.
And then that's why we have this rapid advance
that's taking place now, because we have more and more information,
more and more data, and we're building on that data,
and we're learning faster and faster.
And now we're kind of outpacing ourselves, putting ourselves on the crosshairs.
Yeah, I mean, but if an asteroid hit us right now, we'd lose all of that.
Yes, yeah.
Like literally, if we had a massive cosmic impact,
we would have nothing left, but like the Great Pyramid, Stonehenge,
maybe not Stonehenge, but we'd have like the Hoover Dam.
Assuming it didn't get hit.
Right, right.
But like only the stone work would survive.
And I think I had someone on here once who said that it would take
less than 250 years for all of New York City,
all the buildings in New York City to be reduced to dust.
I believe that.
I believe that.
Yeah, but probably some, you know, steel girders that are rusted,
but even they would go after a while, you know, 250 years kind of makes sense.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, yeah.
The only way it would be like put a hard drive on the moon,
yeah.
Somehow.
Right.
Yeah.
You mean move all technology.
All of our data somehow back it up somewhere else because, you know,
there's been a violent history of catastrophic events that have wiped out.
Right, right.
Actually, that's a great idea.
You know, it's not an easy problem to solve because we have a lot of data
and we're constantly creating more data, you know, every day.
I mean, every split second, we're, you know,
probably increasing the amount of information that we used to have,
I don't know, 500 years ago over a week.
You know, you might not even need to go to the moon.
You might be able just to keep it under water because, you know,
there's a lot of animals that survived that stuff like sharks.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's where they have the best shot, you know,
because they actually can live there, you know,
or put it deep in the, you know, deep in the planet.
But I kind of like your idea of putting it, you know,
assuming the moon doesn't get hit too.
I don't think we're very far from people hanging around the moon.
I think within 10 years, people will be taking nice little drives, 10 years.
Yeah.
Why don't you think we've done it since the 70s?
What do you think?
It seems like we're doing so much, we're innovating so much,
we're creating all these new technologies,
but like we haven't given a shit about the moon.
Was just the space race?
Was that the only thing that was just motivating us?
Now we don't care.
Yeah, we won.
We won.
We won.
And so then, I mean, within, I think four, four or five, you know,
more Apollo missions, it was over, you know,
because there wasn't any, it was expensive as hell.
Yeah.
But I think that-
But now all the technology that we had to get to the moon,
basically would be, we could fit that inside of an iPhone.
Yes, yes, I know, yeah, it's, it's, it's kind of amazing.
I mean, it truthfully probably has 10 or, 10 or 100 times more power than,
than we had in the moon, you know, those moons.
Yeah.
So I, yeah, just, just keeping a handle on the data that we have,
but, you know, obviously there would be things that would be worth saving.
And there's really no way of knowing, I mean,
there are people that are working on that too,
trying to figure out, well, is there something coming our way?
You know, and if it's coming our way,
well, I don't know how you, how you get around it.
You know, luckily there's fewer and fewer of them coming our way
because, you know, four billion years ago, the planet aggregated.
And that's when all the damage was being done, you know,
and, and there's not as much stuff out there to hit us.
But, you know, we could still get hit.
Yeah.
There's, there's, there's lots of ways we can go.
Epidemic.
You know, there's a, there's a great book that's called Earth Will Abide,
was written in 1940.
What's it called?
Earth Will Abide.
Abide.
And it's, it's, it's a brilliant book.
And it's just basically a guy is out in the middle of nowhere,
you know, working on something.
And he comes down to a small town and there's nobody there.
And then he keeps getting to bigger and bigger cities.
There's nobody there.
Everyone's died.
And he's, he finally, he finds a few people that live,
but it's essentially that story you're talking about.
You just watching the planet disintegrate, you know, the, the infrastructures.
Yeah.
It'd be interesting to see who survives.
You know, I think the people that would survive would be like the hunter-gatherers
that are still on earth today.
The people like the hunter-gatherers in Tanzania or the Amazon rainforest,
or, you know, some of the uncontacted tribes on various islands around Asia.
You know.
As long as their environment doesn't change.
The people who depend on technology, I think, are the ones that would be go the first.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If there's an, if there's an epidemic.
Epidemic or even a cataclysm, right?
Like if the grid was to go down, even though.
Oh yeah, if the grid went down.
If the grid went down, right?
Like if, if we lost that kind of stuff and we didn't, some, for some reason,
we didn't have power or any way to sustain energy, you know.
And even, I even think about, like you talked about those transhumanists.
Yeah.
Those people who get their heads severed and put into these cryo chambers or whatever.
Yeah.
Like the people that own those, those cryogenics companies out in the desert in Arizona.
Like do you think the first thing that they're going to be worried about is
saving those heads when the grid goes down?
I don't think so.
Yeah, I don't think so.
And plus they would, well, after a few weeks, they would, they would start to warm up.
But yeah, I spent a whole lot of time down there.
I forgot, almost forgot.
That's how I opened the book.
You know, I spent a whole lot of time down at Alcor and to see how that works and,
you know, what the whole thinking is.
I had a guy in here once who, he had a dog tag around his neck he was wearing.
And I was like, what is that?
He's like, oh, this is, we didn't even plan on talking about it, but he brought it.
They was like, yeah, I paid an exorbitant amount of money to reserve a freezer for
my brain after I die.
Yeah.
And he's only doing the brain, you know, if you pay, you pay more if you're doing your whole body.
Oh, people do their entire body.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And essentially there's, it's like plexiglass, you know, that's, that's all that's left,
you know, because they've just slowly freeze you down and then take all the,
all the moisture out of, out of your body and, and all of which will come back.
But the whole concept is that you won't come back until the technology exists to reanimate you.
But we don't have the technology to reanimate anybody yet.
No, no, no, we don't.
But as, as one scientist that's in the book, you know, put it to me, he said, look, you know,
it's like an experiment.
He said, you know, you have, you have the control and you have the experimental animal.
And he said, clearly I'm the experiment because I'm going to do, I've done this, you know,
he said, but I already know what happens to the controls.
They all die.
He said, so what's the downside?
Wow.
May as well give it a shot.
Yeah, it's a gamble.
If you got that kind of money to throw at something like that, I guess, why not?
Well, they argue that you can get a life insurance policy and then turn the life insurance policy
over to them so that when they die, they become the, you know, the beneficiary.
Alcor becomes the beneficiary of the life insurance policy.
So you don't have to actually pay.
Oh, really?
$250,000.
You just get a $250,000 life insurance policy.
Then then you turn it over to Alcor.
So you're paying the premium, but it's nothing like that amount of money.
Yeah, I was always just so skeptical that that was just some big scam.
I know the guy that, I spent a lot of time there and I know the guy that runs it,
Max, trying to remember his last name now, but he's legit.
Really?
Yeah, I mean, they're not, you know, making tons of money from it or anything.
I mean, it's there.
I saw it.
You know, I saw everything they do.
It's not something they're making up and just putting the money in the pocket.
And they have a lot of rules and regulations and everything.
That money is set aside and it's even set aside that when you wake up,
you'll be able to get back on your feet financially and, you know, live a life.
Really?
Yeah.
Do they have a plan for what happens because if you're dead, right?
Like legally you're dead, so they get the money from your life insurance policy, right?
Right.
Do they have a plan on what happens 400 years from now whenever that person comes back to life?
I'm not sure if they're buying into the idea that 400 years they won't have solved the problem.
I think that's the way they see it.
So it's a good question.
I don't think I asked that question because they clearly feel that they're going to solve the problem
or that science will at some point solve the problem.
And so they create, it's a foundation.
So the money goes into the foundation and then it's invested.
So somebody's going to have a boatload of money.
That's for sure.
Right.
You know, if they don't figure it out.
Wow.
And some of the people were, you know, they were frozen in the 70s and 80s.
I mean, there's no chance that they're ever coming back.
I mean, the technology just wasn't good enough to get them to a state.
I don't think, I suppose it's possible that if you could, you know, some genetic technologies
might 100 years from now be able to reinvade anybody.
Didn't Steve Jobs have that done?
No, he didn't.
He did it.
He, no, there were discussions about it and there was discussion, you know, there's,
you know, stories that Disney had it done and stuff like that.
Oh, really?
But he didn't.
He's really in, you know, he's really in a cemetery right outside of Burbank.
Hmm.
But Ted Williams is there and his son is there.
Who's Ted Williams?
Ted Williams, one of the greatest hitters ever.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's the last guy to hit over 400.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And his son, ironically, he got his son in or he got his dad in and then he died of cancer.
So he's there too.
Wow.
I wonder if you come back to life, will the insurance company want their money back?
If they're still in business, if they still exist.
With interest.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
And will it exist because with all the, I mean, I was just talking to a friend of mine in the
insurance business and he said, we're just getting hammered because of a global climate change.
He said, you know.
They're getting hammered because of global climate change.
Paying billions and billions of dollars.
He said nationwide has not made, has lost $100 billion a year over the last three years
because of hurricanes and flooding.
Or property insurance.
Yeah.
And they stopped writing new policies.
Wow.
I mean, you know, when insurance companies start freaking out, you know, you've got issues.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's not a good sign when insurance companies are freaking out.
No, no, they rarely are short on cash.
So it's, it's like again, you know, that's another big
thing that's going on, you know, it's another big force that's taking place that's converging,
you know, in the 21st century.
You've got to really hold on to your diapers.
So what are you working on next?
What are your, what are your plans for your next projects?
Well, okay.
So there's aside from the 10 other novels that I want to write and, and, and, and a few non-fiction books.
I, you know, my, my wife and I, uh, two and a half years ago started traveling all seven continents.
We began to, to this journey to travel all seven continents, but never by jet.
So it takes some time.
Now we come back, my wife Cindy said, I'll do this.
Even though I think you're crazy, uh, I'll do this as long as I can come back and visit my mother.
So what we do is we fly back, visit her mom,
and then we fly back to wherever we were and pick up where we left off.
Okay.
So the last place we were was, uh, the Vienna.
We had gone from Newfoundland, uh, all the way down through the United States,
across the United States down to Baja, and then down through the Caribbean and into, uh,
South America and through Peru and Chile and all the way to Antarctica.
And we did all this, never traveling by anything except ship, car, occasionally, trains, buses,
you know, sometimes mules.
And we've, and we got to Morocco and, and then we took a, but before that or after that we took a ship
up to, uh, Europe and then we did Western Europe and now we're coming back down and
now we'll be heading into the Mediterranean and Africa.
Wow.
And then we still have to go into Asia and, uh, Australia and Japan and all of those places.
So we got probably another couple of years of travel and I'm writing about this.
It's called vagabondadventure.com.
And, uh, so you'll be able to see every place that we've been and, uh, and
and tons of pictures and, you know, uh, and it's been an incredible experience.
What's been your biggest takeaway from that?
People, huh, people.
I mean, first of all, you meet extraordinary people, especially the kinds of people we've
run across because we, when you, when you travel that way, you're not traveling into a resort.
You're not just traveling for a week.
You know, you're, you're, you're plotting across, you know, whole countries.
And, and so you've run into some other super serious travelers.
You know, and, you know, you think you've like, I go, well, I've traveled.
Nah, I haven't traveled compared to some of these people.
And then the cultures, of course.
I mean, you're, you know, you're immersed in the culture, you know, whatever country you're in
and you're listening to the language and the music and you're learning the food.
And, you know, that's what we wanted to do.
That's why I said, let's do it this way.
You know, because we don't want to just fly in and fly out.
We want to really absorb what the world has to offer.
And then once you'd go, and the other thing that happens is as you're doing it,
you begin to aggregate more and more of these experiences and you begin to compare and contrast
the kinds of people you meet, the kinds of cultures that you come across, the kind of
foods you eat, the weather, you know, I mean, just going from, you know, the South Pole and
Antarctica to Svalbard, which is the northernmost human habitation in the world, you know,
in between you cross the equator, you know, I mean, you're cold for a couple of weeks.
And then it's just getting warmer and warmer and warmer.
The days are getting longer and longer and longer.
And then you cross over and then the days start getting cooler and cooler.
And then they get short by the time we were in Svalbard, it was four hours of daylight.
So, it's just that kind of, that's the most recent piece right there when we were in Morocco.
Oh, wow.
And that's one of the drivers that we met.
Didn't you find that in much of the places that you went to had people there had longer lifespans?
Oh, yeah. Well, whenever I was working on immortality, we went to one of the blue zones,
this guy named Dan Butner, who wrote a book called The Blue Zones.
And so, I wanted to at least visit one of the blue zones to see what was that all about?
And why were people living longer?
And we went to a place called Icaria, which is based on the old myth of Icarus,
you know, who plummeted into the G and C, whenever he flew too close to the sun.
And those people do live often routinely to 100 years, late 90s.
But when you go there, you kind of realize why.
First of all, there's not a flat place on this island.
It's in one of the Greek islands, so fairly close to Icarus, I mean to Turkey, actually.
But... Oh, wow, look at that.
Yeah, so that's the Agios Curicos. That's where we came in.
And there it is. It's a little tiny island.
And so, there's not a flat area on it, so people just walk and did, you know, walked everywhere.
And so, they're in really good shape. They're very social.
Everyone's super friendly and they get together every night.
There's not a lot of TV or anything like that.
Very simple, no stress, easygoing lifestyle.
So, living a stress-free life, all five of these blue zones are like that.
They're just stress-free, good food.
All these people basically grow their own food.
Now, it's changing. There's more and more vespas around and there's more and more roads.
And people are eating more and more junk food and that sort of thing.
So, my guess is it will start to change.
But it's... It was still a really interesting place to go.
And we'll actually probably be going back there because we're getting close to...
We're getting close to Greece.
And so, I think we'll probably get there in October.
And then we'll head into the Nile.
The Nile.
Yeah, go up the Nile. That's... I'm really looking forward to that.
Have you ever been to Egypt?
No.
No?
No. It looks... I mean, that's the motherload there of human culture.
Yeah. I mean, where I was just in Costa Rica last week,
and everybody there is just... Everyone that I interacted with,
it's just like their lives revolve around waking up early and riding their dirt bike
to the beach to check the waves to go surf for the day.
And then they have amazing food there.
Yeah. Actually, one of the blue zones is in Costa Rica.
Oh, really?
Yeah. Yeah. I was in Nisara.
This is called Nicosia or something.
Oh, Nikoia. Yeah, that's right where I was.
There you go.
Yeah.
So, you can see why people were living a long time.
Yeah, it's wild.
Yeah. You should go there often.
Yeah. It's hard with kids, car with the toddlers.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You couldn't be doing what we're doing with a toddler.
Yeah.
You know, it's hard enough whenever you're growing up.
You know, and then it's hard whenever you're flying and stuff too.
I've been there. So, we had four kids.
So, but, you know, later they're going to love it.
You used to travel with your kids?
Yeah. I mean, they're easier to travel when they're really young.
Do you think it's easier?
Yeah. It's easier because once they're not mobile, look out, you know.
Yeah.
I mean, they're all over the place.
Right.
You know, and I've often watched little kids just take off, you know,
when they're mobile, you know, when they learn to run and, you know,
being in, you know, a train station or an airport or something like that.
And you're just like, they're having so much fun.
And we've forgotten.
We don't remember.
That's some really important thing about those first four or five years.
We have no memory of them, you know.
So, I'm sure if we could remember, we would go, oh my God, I'm able to run.
I am so happy, you know.
It's just got to be one of the most liberating things in the world.
And so, you just watch them take off, you know.
And usually parents are like, oh my God, you know.
It's the most stressful thing ever.
Yeah. Yeah.
They're scared to death, but the kids just loving it.
Yeah.
You know, and I get it.
So, that's when it'll be a little harder.
Yeah.
Well, Chip, thank you so much for coming on here and talking with us today.
I really appreciate it.
My pleasure.
It's just fun to talk and the conversation is good.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Yeah, definitely is.
Tell people that are listening where they can find more of your work.
And I don't know if you have social media.
Follow you on social media.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can follow me on social media at author Chip Walter and also Vagabond Adventure.
And then there are two websites.
One is vagabond-adventure.com and that's all about our travel.
There it is.
And that kind of shows, gives you some idea of where we've been and what we've seen.
And then my website is chipwalter.com.
And that's where you find all the information you need about my books,
including my most recent one, Doppelganger, which is a novel that's getting great reviews
and people seem to love.
So, I hope lots of people will read it.
Yeah.
That's really cool.
I love the variety of books that you do with the science fiction and the documentary type stuff.
It's really cool that you're able to diversify that way.
Well, I have a bad disease.
I'm just interested in everything.
Yeah.
So, that's why I wanted to go around the world.
You know, that'll be a book too.
Cool, man.
Well, I appreciate your time.
And we did a Patreon Q&A for the Patreon people.
If you want to check that out, it's linked below.
Good night, everybody.
Take care.
