Hello world. Today's guest on the podcast is Marty Ray of the Marty Ray Project. He's
a musician, singer and songwriter based in Memphis. He is just an all around funny motherfucker
and super talented dude. His YouTube channel, he's got these remakes. He makes these insanely
good music videos with his video producer who has actually made a guest appearance towards
the end of the podcast and they have trillions of views. You can see him on his YouTube channel,
Marty Ray Project. Anyways, this was a super fun conversation. I hope you guys enjoyed
as much as I did. Please welcome Marty Ray.
I like it. I like your setup. I do too. Marty was somebody, uh, somebody was on here there
today. I don't know anything about audio, but somebody was on here is like, oh man, I
got the SM7Bs or whatever. I'm like, what's that? Is that a camera? And he was like talking
to me and he was like, looking at me like you're looking at me a minute ago. Like how
the fuck do you not know what a SM7B is? It's the name of this microphone. I was like, I
don't know. I just order whatever one else uses on fucking YouTube.
You look good. You look good. Joe Rogan and yeah, that's what everyone uses. Right. Well,
not everyone. I don't, but I'll probably have way better microphones. No, no, no, I don't.
I use a Aston origin. I like those. I like those. But these, these are like really the
best mic for this situation. Yeah, these are super crispy mics. I love them. And they're
not that expensive. They're like 300 bucks or something. Yeah, they're not too bad. That's
about what mine cost. It's about the same thing. There's microphones online that are
like thousands of dollars. That's foolish. Have you seen the one Drake uses? No, I saw
an Instagram post that showed like Drake's microphone that he has in his home recording
studio and it's supposed to be like $60,000 mic or something. Probably a Neumann. Yeah.
Probably cooks you breakfast and makes your coffee. Like what kind of mic can you tell
that a mic is singing $60,000? Like, does it really make that much of a difference?
Probably not. But singing, I can see you paying more money than just speaking. Yeah.
Because speaking, you can really use anything. Look at the podcast that are out here. Yeah.
You know what I mean? They're, they're all making, making content and it's, and it's good
content. And because people, people aren't as judgy if it's just me talking or you talking
right as they are from singing. Right. You know what I'm saying? And if people are playing
music, I'm sure they got way better sound system setups than they do if they're listening
to a podcast on their iPhone. Exactly. Yeah. So all right. Cool. Well, let's, let's like
officially start this thing. So Marty, why don't you tell the audience a little bit about
who you are and a little bit about your background for people that don't know already. Well,
I'm just a man that God put here to sing and write songs and some people like them and
some people don't. The ones that don't, I still love them. And I've been doing it. I
came out of the womb singing. You know, when the doctor pulled me out, I was singing where
you really was a weird situation. Yeah. You believe that? What song were you singing? I
think I was, I think so. I think it was Hank Williams. There's a tear in my beard. No,
you're in your beard. In my beard. In your beard. Yeah. I had a beard when I was a baby.
You know that? I didn't know that. Can you tell? I believe it. Yeah. Hell yeah. Yeah.
You got a solid beard. He thinks I'm serious about everything I say. He don't know me yet.
He's like, man, this guy's had a life. This is a crazy life. This guy's had. Yeah. And Michael
Jackson recorded on these mics that were. This exact mic. That's insane, man. B&H took it. You
bought it. That's crazy. But he really did record on SM7. I'm just a singer and I started writing
songs when I was 12 years old, went through a phase where the people I looked up to in music
in my family, they said I couldn't sing and stuff like that. So kind of held me back for a long
time and it was, it was on purpose though. It was meant to be. So then fast forward to my 20s
and I had discovered a little app called GarageBand. You ever heard of that? Oh yeah,
I used a lot of GarageBand before. Yeah. So GarageBand came along with about 2005 on an Apple
MacBook, first one I ever had. Started recording myself and I said, I think this does sound pretty
good to me. I don't know why they're saying that. So then I just made a video, put it out there for
the world to see and a lot of people seem to like it. About 30,000 views on that video and I
thought, man, I'm famous now. I'm on my way. You know what I mean? And a little bit, I know,
I really wasn't famous. But at that point, I thought this might be something that kind of
sparked it, you know, because then people were calling. I was a tow truck driver and a mechanic
working for my dad. Now I know you can't look, I know you look at me and you think he must have
came from a law family, right? No tow truck driver. I thought that nails it pretty well actually. Oh
really? Well, most people don't say that. So I was getting phone calls at my dad's shop and they
were like, Hey man, I love that song. When you're gonna make an album. And I was like, I don't know.
That's a good idea. I really should make an album. If you were by it, I'll make it. Yeah. And these
people were like, Yeah, we'll buy it. I was like, Okay, well, I'm about to be rich. And so
I ended up CJ Wilder here who's sitting next to me. Yeah, we went to high school together. Okay. And
he took way before I took the leap into music. He was brave enough because he had a he had a father
that was very supportive. My dad was supportive, but he was like, if you're going to make a living
in this world, it's going to be with these hands, they can be with his mind. You know what I mean?
He's like, that could be a dream. That could be something to hold on to in your head. But it's
a pipe dream. You know what I mean? You ain't really going to ever that. And then even if he
would kind of give a little bit and say, I'd say, No, dad, I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be a star. You
know, I'm gonna be on top of the world. He's like, Well, you know, I'll be dead for that. And I'm
like, I'll leave man. At least he gave me an inch. But CJ had a dad that told him like CJ went to
college, right? And then tell them what you did quickly. I just I was lucky to have supportive
parents. I, you know, had a little bit of the real world and realized that music was all that I
wanted to do. And felt like that's why I was here. So when I said dad, I want to go to Nashville,
he like go for it. I mean, you got nothing. Nothing. Didn't you say I think he went to his
dad? He's like, Dad, I don't, I don't like college. I want to play music. Like kind of like Mark
Wahlberg is like, I want to, I want to dance. Remember that? Mark Wahlberg and the other guys.
You ever seen the other guys? It's been a long time. I don't really know any other guys. He's
secretly loves to ballet dance in that movie. So at the end, he's like, I just want to dance.
Okay, yeah, yeah, like a bird, whatever. CJ was that guy. But with music, he went to his dad,
where I, if I would have went to my dad out of college and I said, I'm dropping out of college,
daddy. I ain't, I can't, I gotta go do music. He's like, no, you're not. I'm gonna beat you if
that's, if that happens. Yeah. On the other hand, his dad was like, if you ain't happy,
then you better get after, get to Nashville and get after the music, you know. And he said,
because if you're, if you're doing what you love, you'll never work a day in your life.
That's awesome. That's what he said. So then his dad ended up supporting me, you know,
later on. Really? Yeah. So like, his dad became my biggest fan before I had any fans,
before CJ was even a fan. You know what I mean? CJ hated my music. His dad loved it.
Oh, I couldn't stand it. Wow. No, I'm kidding. I'm joking. No, but I told that because he kind of
inspired me because what age were you 18? When I came to Nashville, I was 21. 21 years old.
And he just took the leap where most people in Blileville, they don't, they don't take the leap.
We're kind of trained and taught to dream within our city limits. So there's a,
there's a steel mill there called Newcore Steel. And that's kind of what you're trained to say,
you get a job here. That's how you're going to make a living. That's because it's a good job,
100,000 plus a year. But is that, is that kind of how you remember growing up? Exactly. Yeah.
So even, even in like high school, you're kind of, everybody's kind of molded to think,
hey, you got this, you got this industry out here. So that's what you get. You get you a degree
that, that helps you get a job out there and helps you go up the ranks. You're not really talk,
hey, you're good at music. You're good at art. You're good at speaking. You're good at this or
that. You need to go after that. No matter what it takes, you go after that. Not really talk that
in guys. And are you back then? We weren't a cool thing about going back is seeing a lot of people
that I, I used to see before and you can tell there's a giant appreciation. Of course, COVID has
changed everything. Everybody's starving for entertainment and starving for, you know, an
outlet. But yeah, back then it was, that was the, that was the thing. Newcore, Maverick,
several steel mills right on the Mississippi River. So that's the goal, get out there, get a good job,
provide for your family, start your family and come into Nashville, you know, put me on a
different path. And then I was doing this jam session at the fiddle and steel guitar bar in
Printers Alley. And Marty said, Hey, I'm gonna come up. I'm gonna come up and sing. No, they didn't
have that happen. I posted that video, that that first video I said I made. And his dad
clearly had to send it to him or something because we weren't even friends on Facebook at the time.
Okay. Because he was, he was, he's younger than me. So he knew me in high school, but I didn't
really know him. You know what I mean? Yeah, he was like a child to me. Like how you're like,
what, two years, three years about by me? Yeah. So but his dad took a liking to my,
my mute, my sound, my voice immediately. And I believe I don't, I don't know this, but I know
I believe his dad sent that to me because I got a message or his dad sent that to him. I got a
message from CJ said, Hey man, love that speckled bird you did. We do a jam session at fiddle and
steel. You should come up and sing a couple sometime. And at this point, I had never sang a song
in my life in front of people except for my friends, you know, like playing around or whatever.
And terrified, terrified. But I said, look, if he did it, if he, if he actually packed up left and
went after this music thing, then maybe I can too, you know. And so because he was doing, he's,
he's done big things. I don't know if you're in the country music, but he, he's done things with
Toby Keith. He was on tour with Toby Keith's daughter and they were on tour together and
wrote songs with some really incredible people. But when I came up there, I walk in and and CJ
goes, Hey man, he gives you a hug, you know, and he says, what do you want to do? And I'm like,
y'all don't simple, man. You know what I'm saying? You know, simple, man. You know, simple, man.
No. You don't know Leonard Skinner. Oh, I know. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I know. Kind of,
man. So I go on their course. They know this, right? They know this freaking song. Everybody
knows this song, especially if you're playing bars, right? You know, this song and I'm walking in
there like I've been here before, you know, like I, I know what I'm doing. I'm like, yeah, y'all
know simple, man. He's like, yeah, I wouldn't know that one. And then I was like, what else, what else
you want me saying? You know, terrified, like a little child, but on the outside had this big,
you couldn't tell, could you? No, he pulled it off. Well, man, I was like, really? I was like,
dang, Marty Ray coming over here. You know, I, we got to stick together being from the same place,
you know, so it was awesome to, to, to reconnect because like, yeah, I did know him as in high
school and he actually almost beat up one, beat up me and my, and my friend one time at a party.
You don't remember that. He almost beat you up. Almost. Almost. We were, we were fast talkers and
fast runners. Oh, so we got out of there. We got out of there. But, uh, yeah, it's, uh, Nashville is
an amazing place for cultivating relationships. And, and you know, that this was just another one
that, you know, Nashville was the field and, and, and he was fertilizing his, his thing. It was so
cool to watch all these viral videos just pop up, you know, and kind of take over the internet.
It was, it was really, really cool. It's still happening. It's really neat. Still happening.
Yeah. It's like, I live video to video right now. So, so what happened is after that video,
sounds like somebody has a fucking generator right outside the window. I love generators.
So what happened was after I did that, I started making videos regularly. I said,
I'm going to start being consistent here and try to not be a tow truck driver. So I wrote a song
called tow truck driver. Right. The first album I made was called tow truck driver and I had four
songs and I said, I'm going to go after this. I'm going to go after this thing full force. We'll,
we'll see what God does with it because it's up to him and it still is to this day. So
I get these four songs together. I get the last $3,000 I got in my bank account. I think it was
and I get with CJ. I said, Hey, I want to record some songs and he can, he, he puts everything
together. I bought my uncle's van. I sleep in the back of the van. When I drive down there,
I'm on a parking lot. Right. I sleep in the back of the van before this day we record.
And then CJ meets me for breakfast at the place I was sleeping in the parking lot.
He's like, where you at? I'm like, I'm over here at a mama J's breakfast place. He goes,
oh, yeah, I come over there. I'm like, all right, I'm here. And then when we're in there, I was
like, man, it'd been nice to be able to sleep in a bed or something last night. And he wouldn't
let me, he said, you can't sleep in my house. Isn't that something? He really is. I mean,
I didn't want to say that. I'm glad you said that. Yeah. Thank you. That's why I brought him here.
Now you can leave. So no, but I really did sleep in the van and we went in there and that was
another time when I was terrified because I'd never been in the studio, but I didn't show it.
Like I said, I'm going to make sure these people know that I'm going to get these songs done the
way I want them done. And you might not even know until this day that I was actually terrified.
No, I mean, you can always tell there's a little bit of jitters, but it didn't take long. You know,
he's a natural. I mean, it's not hard to do what you do. The hard part is capturing it,
making it, you know, making it what something you can make money on or use and market.
The talent was there. It was like, you were already doing, you know, already doing big things is
just the talents there. It's just like incorporating the discipline is the hard part. That is the
hardest part. Like you're right. Cause the people, there's many people, some of the most talented
people in the world, you'll never hear from them or see from them because they're waiting tables
or they're doing whatever they gave up. You know, the only difference in successful people and
unsuccessful people is the ones that didn't give up. If you read any biography, you watch any
biopic, you're going to see the only dip. They all had the same struggles. They might not be the
same, but they all had the same moments, those same ticks to check off, right? And it was the ones
that kept on going, even though they got hard that made it. Right. Sitting down, you're actually
doing the work. Like that's right. You can't, you can't just make it to the promised land by
having God given talent. You have to fucking grind and work every day and make it a job.
Exactly. So that's, and that's what I set out to do. I said, look, if you put me here to sing,
if you gave me this talent, then you honor the effort. I'll put forth the effort and you honor
it. And if you honor it, then I know this was what you put me here to do. So there was many times,
so I took this album. I had no fans at all. This is a crazy story. I told this
the other day. We, this, this whole thing, I came down here just to do this podcast.
This whole thing turned into this big media tour. I've been singing for three days straight, right?
That's when my voice is gone. And I was sitting there. I told them on the way over, I said,
I came down here just to do his podcast and I came here to sing. So I came to sing on this podcast
and I came down here just to be on your podcast. And I'm like, it turned into everything else.
We did an event when we first got here. I've had, I've had already any sleep.
We did an event we got here saying at this little private entrepreneur group thing.
Then the next morning we was on Mike Calta show. Were you really? Yeah. And then,
and then we did the show last night, which was almost three hours long. His show is way
bigger than this show. So you, I told him about your show and he followed you. Oh, really? Yeah.
He said, I should know about this show. I said, yeah, you should know. That's awesome. So he's
probably going to, I know I, he said he was going to follow you. So I think he did.
Anyway, you're welcome by the way. Thank you. You don't owe me nothing. The,
what ended up happening after that album, nothing. That's what happened after that album.
No, no, this is true. Listen, nothing happened. Like I thought when I made this album,
now I'm about to be rich. Like I'm about to get Grammys this because you know what's funny?
We were in the studio the first time, right? I did the first song we recorded was countryman.
I'm a countryman, right? And that's kind of how it goes. It's that kind of thing,
but it sounds better when my voice isn't destroyed. And as we're doing it, what's his,
what was his name? Sean, the engineer. I don't know if he says this to everybody,
but it made me feel good at the time. He goes, this is a Grammy everybody. And I'm going,
oh, remember that? He probably said that to everybody that came in. This is a Grammy.
This is a great song. This is a great one. Probably makes you feel great. Yeah. I was like,
man, they got me winning Grammys already. So, you know, you leave there with this album.
You're thinking, this is, this is hot. This fire. This thing's flames. I can't even hold it. So then
I go, I'm going, I'm taking this thing to every, every famous person, every famous artist that
I can get in contact with. However, I can do it through whatever meeting greets I buy or whatever
I can do. I'm handing this album to them. And I'm thinking, I'm going to, this is how I'm going
to make it. This is my end. And I knew I was fortunate enough to know the guy who booked
entertainment at Goldstrike casino. So I'm going to all these meeting greets that he's
putting me, he's getting me involved with. It's really not good to drink carbonated beverages
doing radio, is it? Well, maybe it is for you because we get to hear your,
probably have some pretty impressive burps. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Yippee-yoh. Yippee-yay.
Bow wow. Yippee-yoh. Yippee-yay. Anyway, so I'm handing this album out. The first person was a guy
named Tracy Lawrence, which I doubt you listened to country. Do you listen to country? I don't
listen to, it's a long story. I have a friend who introduced me to Hank Williams, the third.
So he's the only country person I listened to. He's definitely not country. Hank three.
He's not country anymore. He talks about like, fuck that pop country bullshit. He might have
went back to country. He's like punk rock country. Yeah. Yeah. For a while, he was like real like
out there. He was out there. I love your place. My favorite quote is he's like,
kid rock. He's a yank. He ain't no son of Hank. He like, he hates on kid rock. Yeah. I thought that
was funny. Yeah. He has a lot of really funny quotes. Like I put the, I put the cunt in country.
I put the dick in Dixie. He sounds a lot like, have you ever listened to Hank three? Yeah.
You have? There's an album that he has called straight to hell. Yeah. It's really good.
I fucking love Hank three. Pretty country. And then there's also us. It's a two disc
set. And the second, the second one is like all spooky, like, like a train. It's like a hour long
track of a train. And if you just are sitting there listening, you're like, you hear the train
off in the distance. And then all of a sudden, I mean, if it's on speakers and it's cranked,
there you go, your house is going to shake. You know, it's like, like a train is going through
your house, but it's in your speakers. Yeah. Sometimes it's like waking up in the morning
and just fuck if I'm up really early and like have a long drive, I'll just blast Hank three,
like super loud and it just gets me fired up. That's your favorite artist. Hank three. That's
my favorite country artist. Yeah. Is he, is he country though? He has done everything. Well,
his dad, Hank Williams. I mean, yeah, I know that he, but I think he came out originally.
He was country, but then he went to like rock. It was kind of like rock. Rockabilly, uh, you know,
it's not like it's not like let your hair down my lifted truck, my pickup truck. No, but it's not
like, but yeah, it's not like, uh, country music singers have always been a real close family.
That's his dad. It's not like that either. Yeah. Right. He's got like this high-pitched, like
fucking meth addict, hillbilly voice. Yeah. We'll listen to something. We need her.
Sounds like a weed eater kind of. Yeah. We'll play you some, uh, honky tonk heroes or whatever.
Yeah. Get you on there. But anyways, that's my, that's my extent of country. Well,
Tracy Lawrence is a country singer. Okay. Um, I've heard of him. A pretty big one. He did a song
called, uh, um, sounding just like that. Yeah. No. Have you heard a song called, uh, what's that
big one that on the first album he did? No, there's a bit, there's not the first album.
Anyway, he's a, he's one of the bigger acts from like the nineties and maybe before that. But
anyway, I had this album to him. This is the first time that I ever thought, okay, there's something
here. I hand this to him. He didn't really respond much at all. Took a picture with him
and he leaves after the show and I hear nothing. I'm still not heard nothing from him, but he did
at least go into his bus after that show and he listened to that album apparently because he got
back off my buddy Neil, who's who I told you I was friends with the book, the talent at the
gold strike. He got back off the bus real quick and he said, Hey, Neil, he said, tell that kid
he's got something like that. And then Neil told me that he said, Tracy Lawrence got back off his
bus and wanted me to tell you to keep at it. You got something. So then at this point, I'm thinking,
man, I'm on my way. Right. So then you, that, that kind of keeps you going for a little while
until it don't. And then you're like, nothing still, there's nothing happening here. Nothing
happening. So then another show comes and you hand your CD to somebody like, because you're down,
you know, you're about to give up. This one, somebody in success, you get to these places where
you get down, you're like, it ain't going to happen. I thought it would happen soon. It ain't
happening. I thought it would happen before here. It ain't happening, you know. And so if you'll,
if you'll wait a little bit and stay with it, something will come to spark you right back up
like that Tracy Lawrence thing. So then it goes like this. I was here. I was going down Tracy
Lawrence. It kept me up. Right. And then I came back down and I met Charlie Daniels,
knew Charlie Daniels, as I'm sure. Yes. Devil went down to Georgia. He was looking for a soda
still. Right. So I handed Charlie Daniels my, my album and he signed my guitar and very swell guy.
We didn't really have an interaction that was, that was like, oh man, he's going to love, we're
going to do music together. Wasn't that, but he took it. He took it. He goes, thanks. Thanks son.
Took a picture. And then about two months later, I get a tweet at Marty Ray project
from Charlie Daniels official Twitter at Marty Ray project. Listen to your music. It rocks
like that. Wow. And so at this point, you're thinking, man, this is now public. This is,
this is bigger than the Tracy Lawrence thing. Cause now Charlie Daniels went on record
and said, my music rocks. So then I'm thinking now this album is about to blow up. It didn't.
Still didn't do nothing. Absolutely nothing. But I'm here again. And now I'm kind of getting here.
I'm, I'm living off that Charlie Daniels side. So then little by little, you start going, well,
maybe they sent what I'm supposed to do. And so then all of a sudden I meet, I go to a BB King
show. Right. And you know, BB King. Oh yeah. Thank you. I know, I know who Charlie Daniels is and
who BB King is. I'm like two for five so far. You really are. We're going to keep testing you.
I think we're going to get better and better as we go. I also do the Leonard Skinner song.
I just didn't know the title. I didn't know the name of it. Right. I knew you knew that
Leonard Skinner song. You've been on a bar before. I have been in a bar before. Yeah. You look like
a, you look like a, I've been in a few dive bars. It looks like it. I could see you as a dive bar
guy. Oh, total dive bar guy. No, but so BB King, I'm on the front row BB King show. And I'm just
sitting there like this. And before the show, BB comes out and he's at this point, he's already
an old man in a wheelchair, but he can walk enough to sit on a chair in the middle of the stage.
And he's playing his first song. Then as he, as he plays, you know, the stage lights are
in his eyes and he's doing this, trying to see the people and he goes, he goes, turn the house
lights up and they turn them up a little bit and he still can't see. He's going to turn them all the
way up. So they turn them all the way up and he goes, Hey, there's everybody like that. And he
starts looking around, looking around plays a little while. They start fading the house lights
back down, you know, and that, and as they're fading them down, he plays another song. He goes,
turn the house lights back up and they turn them up. He goes, thank you. And he plays a couple
more songs and then they, they start fading the lights back down again. And then he stops
after the next song goes, can we just leave the house lights on? I want to see my people
like that. He didn't want to play and not see the people that he was playing for.
Because you can't see they turn his light. This was like a theater setting at the gold
track. So it's like you're in an actual theater and then he's on stage. So they're the one,
the house lights are off and those cans are in your face. You can't see and you can't see out
there. You can't see nothing. So it's essentially like you're singing to yourself, but he wanted
to see everybody because he was a real king in music. And so the house lights were on and I say
that because of what happens next. The reason he was able to see me jamming and vibing to his music.
I'm sitting and doing this, you know, he's like, I'm doing this, you know, and I'm just grooving.
And then he goes in the middle of the show, he's got, we're talking about this is a full,
this is the biggest band you've ever seen. We got trumpets over here. Got the section of trumpets.
We got the drummers, the percussion. It's everything you can think of. Like it's not your typical
blue show. Right. Stevie Ray Vaughan. Yeah, it's not your typical blue. This is, this is like
actual production, you know, but so he goes, he's playing and he's looking, apparently seeing me.
I don't know because of my eyes are closed and I'm just, you know, like this and he goes,
hold on everybody. Hold on. It's like, like that. And you hear the drum go and like,
everybody stops and like, what? No, he goes, hold on, everybody, hold on. He looks, he looks
right at me and he goes, as long as that man's having a good time. So my thrill is gone away.
You know, and I'm like, what the heck, man? Like, so everybody in this place is looking at me like,
who's that? Who is this guy? Yeah. Who is this guy? He must be from a record label or something.
Like BB, that's why we wanted the house lights on, you know, for this guy, this big bearded fella,
not a typical record exact, you know, a tow truck driver. As you categorize me, as soon as I walked
in the door, tow truck driver or lawyer or lawyer. All right. You know, it was one of the one of the
other or wrestler. Yeah, we did used to wrestle in my, we had a homemade ring and blival.
Really? Back like backyard type wrestling? It was, it was a lot like that. But I mean,
I didn't do, I wasn't involved with the production, but I would get on this, this ring that my buddies
had built inside this nasty, crappy, rusty tetanus shot needing shed. Right. And there was this,
if you jumped off the top rope, you was banging your head on the ceiling type room. Jesus. But
it was fun to get to slam each other on an actual mat. You know what I mean? I didn't,
a lot of people couldn't lift me to slam me, but I was slamming a lot of people. You know what I mean?
Yeah, hell yeah. People like you, I was slamming them. You know what I'm saying? Like we was,
that's what he's doing. I was like, now you do me. And they're like, I can't. I don't think I can,
Marty. It is. So, you know, but let me, let me cry a little bit real quick because of how fat I am.
All right, back to the story. I'm good now.
So, uh, BB, this story gets crazy. It sounds like it's written, right? But it's not written.
I've told this a lot of times at the end of this show, BB wants all the fans to come to the front
of the stage and because I was on the front row the whole time, I let everybody else get in front
of me, right? And so at the end, he takes his guitar picks out of his coat pocket and he throws them
like this and they're so light, they just spread out in front of him, close to him. And these fans
that were there, he was trying to give them these picks and they're getting up there on the stage,
getting these picks and getting off. They're not, they're not rushing BB or nothing, but the, uh,
the security guards are throwing the fans off the stage and BB's getting mad. He said,
stop doing that. Stop doing that. And they won't stop doing that. They said, we can't stop getting
them off stage. It's our job. But BB was mad. So he goes, he pulls his, his gold bracelets off
and his gold necklace off and he throws some of the gold over here and some of the gold over here
to these people that are on the front row. I mean, on the front of that stage.
And I'm sitting there thinking, I said, God, on the front of that stage, man. Like I'm sitting
here trying to be a good guy and I just missed out on some BB gold. You would see it right here on
me today. If I was, I'm telling this story like this came from BB King. He wore this. Mr. T. It's
inscribed. I bet it was inscribed in there. You know what I'm saying? Somebody has something
that says BB King to be, you know, it's just crazy to think about that. But anyway, so then
because I knew the guy that booked entertainment, I got to meet BB King. So we got to go backstage.
So then everybody else left and there was about 50 people that were getting to meet him.
And I was the one that didn't necessarily pay to meet him. You know what I mean? All those
other people were paying and they all had guitars and I had my guitar. I just bought this Martin
guitar. I had bought a lot of cheap guitars and never learned how to play. But this time I spent
like $2,000 on a guitar because I thought this might force me to learn. And but I still hadn't
learned. I still hadn't. I just would mess around and be like, I'm no good. And then put it up.
And so I had that and we're being led down this side of the stage and it's very narrow.
It's very narrow hallway, but it might be just because I'm fat, but it was very narrow to me,
right? Very narrow to me. And it was dark. So they're, they're leading us with a flashlight and
their security, the row of security guards sitting there like this as we're walking by the entrance
to the stage, you know, they're all blocking that. And you can't hardly see anything besides this
flashlight. And you're, you're walking. And then as I'm walking by, I'm the one in the last line.
In between these security guards, this massive hand comes out and grabs my hand as I'm walking by
and holds my hand like this. And it's pulling me towards the security guards. And I'm being like
this. I'm doing this. And they go, they go, what are you doing? You got to move on. They're trying
to shut them. I'm like, somebody got to hold my hand. Somebody's got my hand. And they part ways.
And there's such BB King in a wheelchair pulling me to him just like this. And he goes, I want you
to know that I enjoyed playing for you tonight. I was like, I'm, you know what I'm saying? You can't
can't even form words at this point. All I got is a guitar and that that album was in my coat.
And I had his his actual record in my hand. And he goes, what you have there? And I hand it to him.
And he's looking at it. He goes, boy, show us a lot prettier than I said, you're still pretty to
me, Mr. King. And he said, I love you. I said, I love you. And so he says, he says, give me a
sharpie. And he signs that. And he said, I'll see you on back there like that. Right. And at this
point, you're thinking, why in the freak is this happening to me? Like, we, I don't, I don't know
BB King. I still don't know BB King other than this story. And I still don't, I mean, I know why,
like God did that. This was the moments I'm talking about those, those moments that do this.
So God said, I'm going to give you a high that you'll never come down from.
And that's what this story is. So then I go back there, I got my guitar, and I'm watching all
these people be turned away that they don't have Gibson guitars, because he was apparently
contractually obligated to only sign Gibson guitars, because that's what Lucille was that he
played. Lucille was Gibson. So I'm watching all these people leave after getting a picture with
him in the green room and, and all this stuff. And they're leaving with their guitar unsigned
if it wasn't Gibson. I have a Martin and I'm thinking, shoot, I should have bought a Gibson.
You know what I mean? I spent $2,000, I could have bought a Gibson.
Now I ain't going to get BB King on it. So all these people are in front of me,
as I said, about 50 people. And I'm seeing BB's energy is just leaving. Got to do it all the,
like this, you know, in between, you can, as I'm, as I'm watching in the door, you can see BB,
like, you know, kind of doing this every now and then, because he's an old man, you know,
and he's doing this and, and, and then he, somebody comes to him, he goes, Hey baby,
and he does this and he'll smile. He's just a genuinely nice dude. And so then I come in,
his energy was, was almost gone. It was almost like, man, I got, if I don't quit soon, I'm
going to pass out. I got to, I got to stop. I walk in and he goes, Hey, my friend,
like we had known each other our whole lives, right? And I'm thinking my best friend.
You're my best friend, BB. I love you. Yeah, I love you, BB. And then he comes up. I mean,
I come up, he goes, and I hand him my guitar and he goes, what's he got here? And I said,
I'd love for you to sign that. And he looks up at the head of it and sees the Martin and he
look, he does this and he looks up at me. He goes, I'm going to sign it anyway. And he signed my
guitar, BB King. And it could be the only non Gibson guitar in the world signed by BB King.
Right? It could be. I don't know. I don't know if that's true, but it could be. But then,
so we, so then I, before we take a picture, I have that album. I told you about this album,
this little video album I had. I hand this album to BB and he goes, well, well, well,
like that. It's almost like he knew I was, I was in music. He has almost like,
it was like a kindred spirit. Cause when he saw that, he really lit up. He was like, well, well,
well. And he looked up and he said, who's got that sharpie like that? And I said, no, no, I,
I thought he wanted, he thought I wanted him to sign my album. That's what I thought he wanted.
And I was going to take it with me, but I said, no, no, that's for you. He goes, I know who this is
for. And he, he said, who's got that sharpie? They bring the sharp back to me. He said, I want you
to sign this to Mr. BB King. I signed my first album ever to BB King and he took it. We took a
picture. It still hangs on my wall. This picture is still on my, on my office. We took a picture.
He holds, we're holding the album up, took the picture and he goes like this. He puts it in his
pocket afterwards. He does this. I said, I love you. And I said, look in my eyes. I love you,
BB. He goes, I love you too, son. We'll see you down the road. I never seen him again,
but I thought, man, when I get, when I get a little traction, me and BB might do something
together. But I like to think that BB rode with that on his bus until the day he died, right?
He was just sitting there. I don't know if you ever listened. I don't know any of that. But that
moment is the actual moment. His name being on my guitar is the reason I'm able to play guitar to
this day. Like it made me, I said, I got to learn how to do something now. So I started really
buckling down to play this thing that BB King's on. He's on my guitar. So, and I'm still not that
good, right? So maybe you'd still be disappointed in me, but I'm, I can at least play, you know,
I can at least play and write songs. I'm nowhere near as good as CJ and that's why I keep him with
me. But it's the only reason I don't care about him at all. I just keep him because he's good at
guitar. That's obvious. Yeah. So anyway, that was kind of a long way to say though, getting on that
high with BB kind of made me say, okay, now I'm gonna start making videos and I'm gonna start
being consistent with this thing. And I, because I had to learn guitar before I could make a video,
because I was at the mercy of musicians. I couldn't just do acapella videos.
And I didn't know how to play the guitar. So I said, I can't. So then I started buckling down
learning, started posting a few videos that I would learn the chords on and the people started
liking them. And then lo and behold, this song came along called all about that bass. You ever
heard that? Oh yeah. So I took, I heard that song and buddy of mine, we were riding down the road
and he goes, because you know, she's talking about all about that bass is a reference to being
thick. Do you know that? You don't know that because you're tiny, right? You know, I shouldn't
say tiny. It's a, it's a reference to being thick, being thick. Like, you know, that's what, that's
what she's talking about. Okay. You know, I'm all about that bass, about that bass, no treble,
because she's a thick girl. Oh, gotcha. You know what I mean? Megan trainer or she was, she might
not be now, but that's what that's in reference to. Okay. Talking about being a thick girl,
right? And be proud of it. Right. I like that girls. Yeah. I know you, I can tell. I knew when
I walked in, you kind of had that glare in your eye like, man, if you was a girl,
what's up? You know what I mean? I was like, I feel like he's undressing me right now.
I'm really uncomfortable. Is this really a podcast studio? There's a, there's a projector up here.
Oh yeah. No, but uh, yeah, I see the couch over there too from the 1964 or something.
It's a 1960s porn set. Yeah. Isn't that something? It's amazing, isn't it? I think I did that what
they did in here. A lot of people hate on it. Yeah. I got God and David over here on the wall.
Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that something? So anyway,
before CJ gets excited, he's like, really? That's really where they did. What's your name?
This is where they shot all about the bass music video. This is it.
So because it's a, that song's about being thick. My buddy looks over and he's,
he's a smaller guy, real small guy. He looks over and says, you're actually all about that
bass and beard like that. And I go, you know what? I am, I am thick and bearded. So I ended up
writing a parody song called all about that beard to that song. And we reproduced the whole track
and I went and rented a camera. Didn't know anything about really making music videos,
but I wanted to experiment. So I rented this camera. It was when the black magic cinema camera
first came out. Oh yeah. Yeah. And that was that first came out and I rented this camera
and lens, Canon lens, whatever, and took this thing and just did the best I could. And I thought,
well, this, I'll post this and it, it probably sucks. And it does suck to this day. It sucks
the video to me, but it literally got two million views in a day. What? Two million views in a day.
Yeah. We were, my buddy and I were headed, he had an audition. At the time I lived in Memphis
and my buddy Brad Beal, Bill for Councilman, Bill for Councilman. Bill. Yeah. Brad Beal was,
he said, he was an actor at the time and he, we were driving to Nashville for him to do an
audition for some commercial. And he asked what I go, we want to see, I go with you. Let's do it.
And so out on the way, I had posted that that morning and on the way there, he's getting a few
texts and I saw that video you read because he was in the video. So I saw that video, you read
hilarious, right? And we're not thinking nothing. No, he's like, all right, right on, man. Appreciate
it. And he gets a few texts on the way there. And he, and he, I'm not getting any texts, but my
people ain't seeing it. You know what I mean? All right. So, but apparently his people are all
seeing it, but we didn't, we didn't check the video. It wasn't, it wasn't in the days where I had
a reason to keep going to my Facebook all the time. Like now I'm answering every comment that
comes in. I'm doing all these things all the time, making sure I stay on track. Cause those are
my people, you know? And so I didn't even have that. Facebook or YouTube? Both. Okay. Well,
at the time, like I got, I got my start on Facebook on my personal profile. Oh, okay. Yeah,
not YouTube. I wasn't even really doing anything on YouTube or my Facebook page.
It was just a personal profile at the time. And that, and it was just like blowing up and we
didn't even know it. We were just driving. He got a few texts. He did his audition on the way back.
He's still getting these texts. As he was in his audition, there was like 15 to 20 texts from
people saying hilarious video, man. That was crazy. It's crazy what's happening with his video
like that. And then he goes, dude, he's got something, something weird. Like everybody that
I know has seen this video. So he pulls it up as I'm driving. He goes, bro, this thing is at 1.5
million views. I said, excuse me. And I said, let me see this. And I look at it and then Jared,
this is the first thing Jared and I did. He just did, uh, he did the, I don't want to say he did
anything to the video other than he just put credits in it. Cause I wanted credits in it.
Yeah. And so I had Jared put the credits in. He's a little drunk. He got pretty tore up last
night. You're still drunk, Jared. Really? Hey, we hear the dog, brother. I got some Jack Daniels
right over there. Here's the dog, Jared. No, but he, all he did was put credits at the end,
like, you know, rolling credits and, uh, he didn't shoot the video for you. No, no, couldn't afford
him. Um, and plus I was trying to learn like union. Yeah. He's union only, only union. No,
I was trying to learn how to do it myself anyway. So it was kind of an experimental thing. And, uh,
anyway, by the end of the day, I had two million views and I thought, now I really am famous. Right?
I was getting calls to do radio interviews and stuff like that for in England and, uh,
everywhere all over the world. I was like, this is nuts. Megan Trainor is fixing to call me and
we're going to be doing a song together. That never happened. I don't know if she ever saw the video
to this day. And now it has, I don't know how he's got it. This got a lot of views on Facebook.
If you combine everything and on YouTube and everywhere, it's, it's pretty good. But, uh,
so I said, at that point, I'm thinking now really, I gotta ride this wave. Yeah. So I'm,
I'm, uh, posting consistently at this point. And then, but these, but the other videos ain't
getting to me in views. You know what I mean? They're not doing it like the, that one did.
Yeah. That's the worst, right? When you're like, damn, you hit, so you hit so high on one and then
like keep doing stuff and like, fuck, why can't I do that again? Right? And that's, that's the
conundrum. Right? That's the problem is people think that, oh, well, as soon as you get two
million views, everything you post is about to be that. It's not the, it's not the case. It's all,
because social media is fickle. The algorithm's fickle. It's like you, you, which I didn't know
this at the time. You got to post at the right time. You got to, you got to, uh, you can't put
too many letters on your, on your images, on Facebook, you know, there's a lot that goes into it.
Like there's, there's algorithms as the, the greatest enemy of an independent artist or
independent anything. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I'm being consistent and then I'm not. So then
three weeks go by and I didn't post a video, didn't post a song. And so I'm thinking, shoot, man, I
said I would be consistent. And here I am letting BB down, you know? And, uh, even though I didn't,
you know, didn't know BB, but I felt like I did. Here I am letting BB down. And so you felt accountable
to like held accountable. Yeah. It was kind of, it was kind of like God's way of saying,
BB's going to hold you accountable. And, uh, so at three o'clock in the morning, three weeks
of shadowing the fans, I say fans, I did have some fans at this time. There was definitely
people commenting and I, and I answered every comment at that point. And even up until like
just a few years ago, every single comment was I answered. Now you don't matter how many came in,
I answer them. Now there's, they're, they're coming in on every video and I don't even get
notifications for these other videos. So I can't answer every comment anymore, but because, you
know, if they don't notify me, I don't even know if they commented. So, but anyway, I still get most
of the comments on the new videos. So three o'clock in the morning I'm sitting there. I'm like, I don't
have hadn't posted in a while. I don't have nothing because when I would, when I would, uh, learn a
song, it would take me a while to learn a song because I'm not a guitar player. You know, I'm
just, I would sit there to go over and over and over. And at the time there was no teleprompters.
There was nothing like that. No kind of apps you could use really that would help you were
with lyrics even. So you just had to learn the song. You had to learn the lyrics and how to play
it. And for me, that was real hard to do. Like just to be able to memorize all the lyrics. Okay.
Okay. Got it. You're talking about three or four takes. And then by the time you get done
with 10 takes, your voice is shot and you can't even make the video. So what was not the easiest
thing to do when you, if you don't know, already know all the words, like if a new song comes out
and you're trying to learn it real quick back then. Now, if the new song comes out, you can
pull up the lyrics and put it on a little teleprompter thing that goes in front of your camera.
And you look dead in the camera and nobody even knows, right? And then you're, you're playing,
all you got to focus on that point is just, just the cord, which is still a struggle for me. I
might miss the court. I missed many last night. Um, but I said three o'clock in the morning.
It's still my personal profile on my Facebook. And I said, I had posted a video in a while.
I hope y'all like this version of eyesight baby that I did acoustic. It was literally like that
throwaway video. And, uh, the next morning, this thing had went wild. I mean, it went nuts.
World star hip hop took it and posted it on their pages and their website. Uh,
Bam Margera posted on his page and website and stuff. And this thing just, it got legs that
never stopped. And then my Facebook page started blowing up. Like people started liking it out
of this world, YouTube, same thing. And this thing, like my whole real actual career in music
began at that moment with that, with that cover that there was a throwaway,
which is a throwaway video. And it, it still to this day, if you combine every person that
actually took the video, stole the video from mine, you know, and then post it on their own
platforms, you're talking 200 plus million views, maybe, you know, all together. And, uh,
there's several, even on my page because I've posted it a couple of times too. And there's
several on my page that have 30 plus million on just my, my own page of that one song.
That's nuts. Can you monetize those videos when you do covers like that?
Yeah. On YouTube. You can't. Well, you can't on Facebook now too, but.
So YouTube lets you monetize those, even though you're doing a cover?
Well, the difference is, is I'm recreating it. Right. I'm playing it. It's me playing it.
I own that sound recording. Okay. So I'll make money on the sound recording.
They still get their money, but you don't have like, aren't you using like their
acapella or their, uh, instrumentals? No. Okay. I'm playing my own guitar.
Oh, you're completely recreating it. Well, especially with eyesight, baby,
that's all me. Okay. I got it. But even if I was just playing their exact chords,
it's still me playing it. I'm not using an instrumental term for that. Like interpolate
or interpolation or something like that. I don't know. You're smart. I'm not a lawyer. I'm a tow
truck driver. You said it yourself, right? Yeah. I guess you're right. Yeah. If you're,
even if you are playing just copying the chords and recreating it yourself, I guess they can't,
if you recreate a track, you own that track you created. Okay. Like that's your sound recording.
Okay. Now what happens with YouTube is you get money for the sound recording part.
They still claim their money for the song, right? Right. They still get part like they
still have claims on my, my channel, but they can't, they, or they can, they could say, you know,
we want you to take that down. They could do that if they wanted to. But why would they,
they make money? You got to, you got a video ice, ice, baby, getting a hundred million views and
we're monetizing stuff like that. You know, they're, they want that to happen because it's not,
it's not just doing that. It's helping with album sales and things like that album record labels
actually reach out to me all the time now. And when they got a new artist and they'll say,
you want to cover this artist song, this song ain't out yet. We want to get people,
I'm like, no, I don't want to cover his song. Why would I cover that? I was like,
the only reason I cover songs is so people will hear my originals. And I like, if it's,
if I'm going to cover a song, it's got to have some, got to have some weight to it.
Whereas what's the point? Right. You know what I mean? Or, or it's just a song that I love,
right? If there's songs that I do that I, that just mean something to me that's other people's
songs. But I'm not just out here trying to cover some random song, you know, because the goal is,
as an independent artist, that's my vehicle to get people to hopefully check out the originals.
Right. That's all that is. So lo and behold, I'm getting all these messages from people
because of this ice, ice, baby video. I'm still, I'm still a tow truck driver, as you said,
right? At this time, I'm a tow truck driver. You feel like you know me my whole life.
So these people are messaging me and they're saying, I'm best friends with vanilla ice.
Give me your phone number and I'll have them reach out and I'm going, yeah, right.
But I'm a tow truck driver, right? So they can get my number anyway. Glenn Ray's towing.
It's available everywhere. And so I gave it to all these people. There was probably,
I don't know, probably 10, 10 to 15 people said this and I gave them my phone number.
And it, it so happened that one of them wasn't lying. One of them really was his best friend
from way back before he was famous in Dallas. You know, he was his best friend. And so I get
this call randomly. I think it was around, I think it was, I don't know how many months it was,
it was months after this video had come out. And I'm horrible with timeframes. I get this call
and I go, Glenn Ray's towing, you know, like, like normal. It's a phone call. And he goes, hey,
Marty Ray, like that. And I said, what's up? Like, Glenn Ray's towing.
You knew who it was? No, I didn't know it was. I'm saying, I thought it was just a customer,
like normal. Okay. And he goes, he goes, he says, man, I love that ice ice baby you did.
That's nice, man. I said, appreciate that. How can I help you? You know what I mean? And he was like,
Hey, it's Rob. It's Rob, man. I go, right on, man. How can I help you? You know, Zach,
I didn't know, I didn't hate to say this, you know, I hope Rob doesn't get offended,
but I really didn't know his name was Rob at the time. Yeah. So I'm thinking, okay,
it's just a customer that somehow found out that I did this song. And I'm like, I got your car.
Do I have your car impounded? Like, what is it? Like, how can I help you? Like,
thank you for the compliment. I appreciate it. How can I help you? He goes, it's vanilla ice.
I said, yeah, right, man. Like, of course, anybody would you as a boy growing up singing,
all right, stop, collaborate and listen, we're all singing that grown up. Well,
maybe not you because you like Hank three. Yeah, but you were probably singing Green Day.
Yeah. Yeah, the first Green Day album. Boom. Hit me with it. A dookie. Hit me with it. I can't
sing it, bro. I'm not singing it. Sing some what's on dookie? Is it like, do you have the time?
That one. Yeah. What's the biggest song from that? Was it that one? That was the biggest
one yet. It was called basket case. Yeah. Did they now I didn't listen to them back then,
but I did like the holiday album. That's pretty new. That was it. Yeah, I stopped listening to
listening to them after like the first three albums, I think you're one of them punk peers,
aren't you? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, not at all. There's a lot of people that are punk fans.
Like all this old stuff. No, they say Green Day. I say, they say, I'm a fan of punk. And I go,
Oh, Green Day. They go, Green Day. They're, they're pop punk. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm bad, bro.
Another turning point of bars stuck in the road. Was that on dookie? No, that's a newer one,
right? That was the next album after dookie. Yeah. Okay. You hear how bad my voice is freaking
destroyed. Yeah, I was like 10 years old or something when dookie came. I was like super
old. How are you? I'm 33. How old do you think I am? Easy. Don't kid. No, no, you're 35. You're
lying. 35. You did not think that. I'm guessing you're 35. But he's trying to be nice because
you said easy. No, I'm joking. Yeah. Tell them how old you really think I am. Like give them the
room. You won't hurt my feelings. 40? Oh, well, I'm not 38. But most people think I'm like in my
mid 40s. I was pretty close. You weren't pretty close. That's why I thought that you were lying.
But anyway, I know I'm used to like I look really young for my age. I'm used to people
being my age that look way older than me. So I kind of like shoot up a little bit when I guess
people say I thought you were on the cusp of 30. Yeah, that's what I thought. Yeah. But you look
like you've been in a dive bar too though. Like a like a like a road hard and put up wet type 20
like 20s. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. I was worried like when I was younger,
I always looked like super like too young. Like I was got like I like I always looked
I was in my 20s. Everyone's like you're like 12. And I was like fuck when I hit 30, I'm just going
to like fall off a cliff. I'm not going to be able to enjoy it and like where it matters like in the
30s and 40s. I'm like when I hit 30, I would suck so bad if I just all of a sudden started looking
super old like went bald. Yeah. Well, you got against bald people. Nothing. Good. Are you bald?
100%. Let's see it. We'll see this. Bald is beautiful. Oh, that's awesome. Keep the hat off.
I'm gonna get me a tattoo like a Boziak. Boziak. He's got the Illuminati. I told him,
you know, he was on my podcast. Was he really? Yeah. He was on my podcast. Just recently we just
released that episode. He's an interesting fella, isn't he? Very interesting. He's all in every
conspiracy theory you've ever heard of. Oh, wow. Well, we didn't get into conspiracy theories.
No, man, we had a crazy talk last week about conspiracy theories for like two hours straight.
I literally told him, I said, I said, now, when did you join the Illuminati? And because I said,
now put your head down and he's got this big pyramid and the all seeing eye on there like on
top of his head. And I'm sitting there. He don't go into conspiracy. I wish he would have went in
conspiracy theories. I didn't know. I thought he was just a guy who's embracing the, the whole
Oh, man. He's all full into like lizard people and everything. Yeah. Joe Rogan.
You shape shit. Oh, yeah. He's listened like he, I think consumes probably way too much
content like on YouTube. He goes, he's one of those guys who probably sits on YouTube and just
goes down rabbit holes for hours now. Well, YouTube is now, but you used to could do that
with conspiracy theories and stuff a lot. Like you could really be on there for days. And like
you just sitting there and then you, you, you, somebody comes in like, Hey, you okay? We thought
we were worried about you. Like what? Well, I've only been watching for three days. Did you know
Elvis was a shape shifter and he's still alive? Did you know Elvis is the groundskeeper at Graceland?
Now he's an interdimensional child molester. Oh, dang. Poor Elvis, man. I'm about to take that
Elvis song I just did down. Apparently. I know. I know. Of course you made that up.
John Boziak, my homie. I like him though. He's really cool fella. Yeah. He was in your studio.
Yeah, I did. Yeah. He's been in here. He just did his second podcast here last week.
Really? Yeah. Did two. He's just done, he's done two with us. Yeah. Nice. So the second one was all
about conspiracies. The second one was all about conspiracy. The first one you just told a story
about his credit card fraud and his whole life and in and out of prison or whatever. And he's wild.
He is wild. He's a wild motherfucker. Yeah, man. That's crazy. You know what he said on our show? He
said, I said, do you ever feel bad about stealing all this money? Like, you know, these people,
you fraudulently took money from him and he goes, he goes, well, he said,
I didn't steal the money from them. I ain't taking the money from them. I was like,
who are you taking the money from then? You know what I mean? You're taking the money.
It's coming out of their bank. Right. You know? Now, of course, the bank gives it back to them.
They get it back, right? But it is, it's heavily an inconvenience. Oh yeah.
When you go and you're like, wasting a lot of people's time. Yeah. You're swiping your card and
it's like decline and you're like, decline. Everybody's looking at you. If you ever had a
car decline, it shouldn't have declined. And you're sitting there and you feel like, listen,
you're looking at the people in the line. You're like, I promise you that I am not broke. Like,
I promise you this. Right. And then they're like, yeah, ego gets involved in, you know, you're like,
listen, I know what this looks like. And you're telling everybody there. You're like, listen,
everybody, I am not broke. Right. I had this. You're pulling up your bank account. Like, I'm
going to show you this. People in the back like, you know, a good way, you know, a good way to
counter circumvent that from happening and being embarrassed about it is just before you give them
the card. Like, I hope that one works. I hope that one works. I used to say that all the time. Yeah.
Man, I hope this works. And then I would go, I would go, let's see which one of these ain't
maxed out. And I would go through these credit cards and these people were like,
I'm like, try this one. You know, it works with fake IDs too. Like before it, like,
when I was before I was old enough to drink or go to a bar and they asked for my idea,
like, I got my fake one and it really was the fake one. And they would like psych them out. You
know what I mean? They'd be like, Oh, you're funny. Did that work? Yeah. Son of a gun.
It's amazing what works. You are a little mind genius, aren't you? No, I'm not. I'm pretty stupid.
I just copy other people what I hear from other people. Oh, I see. Yeah. I don't come up with
the stuff of my own. I just, I just reuse other people's great ideas. You're a chameleon. Yeah,
exactly. I like that. Shape shifter. Has your voice always been that deep and like,
or is that just because have you just like developed that from singing so much?
I don't know. I think my voice is always kind of lower tone when I speak, isn't it?
It's just lower tone, but today it's like extra rasp. Does all that, like the amount of all the
singing you do and all the shows you do, does that take a toll on your vocal cords? Of course.
When you sing like me, it definitely does. Not just like the next day, but I mean like over time.
I don't know. It hasn't taken it over time for me. Because one thing I noticed was
Miley Cyrus, her voice. Have you heard her talk normally?
Yeah, it's really, but I think she has a crazy like deep voice. Yeah, it's like a heavy,
like a heavy voice. I think that's just the way her voice is. Like early days, Hannah Montana,
she, her voice was nothing like that. Well, I think that was before puberty though.
Yeah, that's true. You know what I'm saying? But even back then, which I know you're a big
fan of Hannah Montana, I'm not. I don't think really about it, but I've seen a few clips
and her voice was still deep for a child though, I think, wasn't it? I don't know. I don't think so.
I mean, go back to your DVD sets. Yeah, have to go back and pull those up. And did you meet?
You should get Hannah Montana on this show. That would be amazing. She lives in Nashville,
doesn't she? Does she? I think so. I think everybody moving there. I'm pretty sure she's in
Nashville. Yeah, she probably is. Everybody seems to be moving there now. Well, all the,
all the big country singers come from, came from Nashville, right? Like that's, that's the hub
of country, isn't it? A lot of big ones did, but not all of them. There's some Willie Nelson.
Nashville is like the music fucking city, city of the, of United States, right?
That's what they say. Yeah, they call it music city. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if that's actually
true, but it's sure anymore. A lot of music, a lot of music comes out. There's a lot of music,
not just country. It's not always great music, but there's a lot of music that comes out in there.
But there's a lot of music that came out of Memphis. Like back in the day,
there's a documentary about blues music and BB King, there's BB King before he was actually
famous. He finally got a gig on Bill Street in Memphis and he was standing on Bill Street
doing this, this old footage and he goes, I finally made it. He said, all we ever want to do with
blues music is play right here on Bill Street and here I am playing. And he was, he thought he
made it at that point and he had, because that was it. You play blues music, you get to Bill Street.
That was because, and even Elvis, like they all wanted to be in Memphis. So I don't know when
Nashville became music city, but it's, that's definitely not been always the case. Memphis was
definitely a place for blues. Like, you know Jimmy Hart's from Memphis, Tennessee? Is he really?
Well, that makes sense. He was on here. He told me the craziest fucking story about how him and his
buddy, his buddy was Elvis's like good friend and always went to Elvis's house and he was making a
delivery to Elvis. Jimmy wouldn't tell me other details of what he was delivering, but this lets
me know that it's drugs. Yeah, it was some sort of, some sort of pills, but Jimmy and Jimmy was
with him and he said it was just the fucking most insane story because like Elvis came out all
fucked up, blah, blah, blah. And Jimmy Hart's sitting here in Elvis's mansion in Memphis.
Jimmy's got some fucking wild stories. I bet. It was probably Red West that was his friend,
because that was his, Elvis's best friend and bodyguard. Red West? Red West. Never heard of him.
He's an actor. You ever seen Roadhouse? No. You never see Roadhouse? Roadhouse. I don't think so.
Patrick Swayze, Dalton. He's a bouncer. It's, I don't think I've seen it. It's the most masculine
movie of all time. Is it really? Yeah. Never seen it. I need to watch it. You need to watch Roadhouse.
I do need to watch it. When did they come out? 80s, late 80s. Roadhouse. Did you see Roadhouse?
Next time you watch Family Guy, you're gonna be like,
Whoa. Roadhouse. We broke him. Roadhouse. She's broke. Roadhouse. You ran out of battery.
Roadhouse. Okay, you're done. No.
Roadhouse. What is this? Explain what this is. It's just a Family Guy joke. Yeah, but what's the
joke? Peter is referencing Roadhouse. The movie? He's jacked. Okay. And every time they, you know,
ask him something, it's his answer. Roadhouse. You seen that? You seen it, Jared, right? It's a
pretty funny little whole episode thing they do. Give me one real quick, one question they ask him
that he responds to with Roadhouse. I'm just gonna totally make this up. Like, Peter, will you go to
the store and get some crabs? Quagmire is coming over later. And then Peter's like, Roadhouse.
That's pretty great. I'm gonna start doing that. That's pretty fucking great. Yeah. When you see the
episode, that's great. You should watch Roadhouse. I will watch it. It really is one of my favorite
movies of all time. I'm gonna watch this weekend. Look for the part where he goes like this right
here. You know what I mean? Just keep this in mind. Okay. What's he do that? What's he do? No,
I'm not telling you. You just keep, you just remember I did this. I did this. You almost died.
Remember that. Okay. This is, this is near death. You know what I'm talking about? Don't you? Jared,
have you seen Roadhouse? You remember this? Yeah. Yeah, baby. This is crazy. This right here is
crazy. I've been trying to do this ever since I watched that movie. What the fuck is it? You're
gonna find out. Hey, this guy back here knows, don't you? Have you seen Roadhouse, Austin? Austin.
Austin's only like 22 years old. Austin, look at these computers. They got the most massive
computers you see. The screens, they got like a thousand screens. I think Austin is actually
playing some video games. I think he's streaming Twitch back there. Austin, are you streaming
Twitch? Austin's got a hot new girlfriend he brought over last night. Where is she? Yeah,
where's your girlfriend today? She's, listen to this. She, uh, can we talk about her?
She's fun. She'll let us talk about her. She's, uh, can you pull a picture of her?
She's a Catholic girl. As you're talking. Yeah. Can we, can we get a picture so I can show to
him? She's a Catholic girl. She went to Catholic school and she met Pope Francis. So you know,
she's wild. That's could be. She's wild. We went to dinner last night and Austin ordered a
Sprite. She ordered a beer. Austin, my man, I like Sprite. I'm a Sprite guy too. She was partying
with us and Austin was drinking Sprite eating salads. Austin, you got that picture? We're
literally waiting. Yeah, we want to see, we want to see a picture. This show will not go on until
we see a picture of your girlfriend. What's your name again? Marisa. Marisa. Marisa. She's awesome.
Man, one of the, one of the prettiest actors is named Marisa. Marisa Tomei. Marisa Tomei.
Yeah. What movie is she in? You see My Cousin Vinnie? No. Son of a gun. Does this kid, do you
watch movies? I watch some movies. Yeah. My cousin Vinnie, Joe Pesci. One of the greatest movies of
all time. You got a busy weekend ahead of you. Yeah. You got some homework to do. Fuck, I got a
lot of homework to do. The second time I'm on this podcast, whenever that is, if it ever happens,
I want you to have a report of these movies. Okay. Roadhouse. I'm gonna give you a look.
My cousin Vinnie. My cousin Vinnie. What, what was Marisa Tomei was? Titanic.
No. What was up? Recent movie she was in. Jared? No. Awesome. Where's the picture? Pull it up on
your IMDB while we're talking. There she is. Let's see. Okay. Okay. Any nice little southern bell.
Yes ma'am. Yes ma'am. Marty, you're looking for a long time. Catholic southern bell. I was looking
into her eyes, I swear. I really was. I really was. I was. Babe, I was. She's gonna get the pope.
She's gonna get Pope Francis in here hopefully soon. Yeah, I'm sure. That would blow up. That would
blow up. That would blow up. Yeah. Please ask him some real questions if you do. I'll get you in
here as a guest. Please. We'll get you to be the guest host. You will not. Marty Ray. Anytime you
want me to guest host, just let me know. Okay. And we'll make it happen. We'll drink liquid death
and be metal, man. Yeah. You don't like metal music? Really? There's only one music. It depends
on what, I don't know what people call metal. What is metal? Death metal. Death metal. Definitely
not. But I like, I think AC DC was called metal too. Were they, weren't they? What about Metallica?
That's a classic rock. I like a few Metallica songs. But you know, when you, when you, here's
the problem with certain metal people and punk people is they say, uh, you like metal, bro? I'm
like, man, I don't like Metallica. It's not metal. They used to be metal. And I'm like, they say,
they're like, you ever heard a death of a thousand stars by Metallica? And I'm like, no, but I've
heard inner sand man. And they go, of course. And I'm like, man, what do you want? Yeah. I'm not
saying I'm the biggest. They're metal. Chills, didn't you? Yeah, I got chills. They're metal
elitists. Right. My favorite, if it's a metal song, it don't sound like a metal song, but
there's so many different kinds of metal now because there's like other subgenres of metal,
death metal and then some like pop metal and, and I don't know, cup metal, whatever, whatever the
freak. I got all these names. Yeah. But, uh, the best, the best, uh, Metallica song is, uh,
so close, no matter how far, couldn't be much more from the heart. You know that one? Oh, yeah.
Is that metal? Because nothing helps matter. That's it. Yeah. And I closed my eyes. James
Headfield's right. Trust I see. And I find in you. Every day for something new.
Will be mine for a different view. Because nothing else matters.
He's country. He does like Hank the third. What about, uh, what about Creed? Oh, I did like
Creed. That's not metal, is it? No, hell no. Can you do a Creed cover though? Oh, what was, uh,
with arms wide open under the sunlight. Yeah. Welcome to this place. I'll show you everything
with arms wide open under the candlelight inside the curtains on an old porn couch.
With arms wide open. I don't remember the words. There you go. And then there was, uh,
that's with a horrible, horrible voice. I was looking beautiful. Let me tell you,
I could really nail that impression if my voice wasn't destroyed. Because I sang that a lot.
That was pretty damn close. Back in the day. What's another one of Creed's?
Uh, can you take me to a place where blind men see?
I told you I brought my guitar player. That's great. That's really how he does.
Really? Yeah. He don't actually play guitar. He plays it with his lips. Yeah. Yeah. Play
a little something. So they believe me. Keep it going.
What's what's happened to the guitar, bro? It's over. You lost your gig and I get paid now.
All my guitar sounds Calypso. No, he was like, and then I started saying it was gone
because it's just a kick drum there. Oh, is it? Yeah. I apologize. I apologize. Hey,
you know, it's okay. I got you. You got your next time. Next time. I forgot where I was in
my story. If it even matters, but uh, we're talking about metal. Metal. Yeah. Yeah. Metal.
We're talking about metal. My, my, my stint. Metallica. Metallica is metal. Yeah. Maybe
not the new Metallica, but the old Metallica is definitely metal. Right. When you put the
orchestra in, same thing with Creed, like I'm with the arms wide open. You're like, oh man,
this guitar solo is going to be great. And then it's like, then they bring in the orchestra.
You're like, oh, Creed had an orchestra on that song. Yeah. Big old symphony type. And the same
thing with Metallica, you know, they did the no leaf clover and they did nothing else matters
with an orchestra. I didn't know that. I didn't know it wasn't a record, but they did it live
like for the MTV Grammys or something. Yeah. So I think when you put in the orchestra, the metal
part, whatever happened to that guy, the lead singer Metallica, he's still around. James Hetfield,
man. He's, oh yeah. He fucked up Napster, right? No, that was Lars. That's the drummer. Hey guys,
Lars Olrich here. Yeah. He's he's still with the band? Yeah. Of course it's his band. Him. It's
ultimately his band. Yeah. It's Lars, man. What do you mean by that? Means he's his band. If anything
happens in it's because of him. Really? The only reason there is a Metallica is because of him.
I didn't know that. That's the truth. It doesn't happen with many bands. Normally it's the front
guy. Yeah. Like Axl Rose or or whatever. But like in some bands, you know, like Fallout Boy,
the bass player Pete, you know, the singer don't say much when they do interviews. I didn't know
that. Yeah. Pete's like the. I'm not a big Fallout Boy fan, but anyway. The battery right there.
Pete is the Lars Olrich of. Oh, we're running. We're running. We're running over their time here.
No, we're not. You guys got a time limit? No, I thought he, I thought y'all might. Oh, no, no,
he's Austin. It's down there on the on the outlet on the wall. See the little black thing? Hey,
y'all got a bed for Jared? A bed? Yeah. Jared, you want to lay on his couch? Jared, lay on the couch,
man. It's comfy. I promise no one's had sex on that in this week. But wait till Austin
brings his girlfriend back. There's, we got all the calm off the couch. It's clean. They cleaned it.
There's still a, uh, looks like some kind of, uh, apparatus to, uh, subdue or something there.
It's like one of those zip ties. Oh, it's just cut. So, Austin, you're supposed to get rid of that.
He slipped up on it. Austin, what have you done? What have you and Sally been doing? You're gonna,
you're gonna get us canceled. What's his name? What's her name, Sally? Who is it? Marissa. Marissa,
Marissa Tomei. Yeah, where's Marissa? Oh, Spider-Man far from home. Spider-Man far from home. She's, uh,
Aunt May. What? Spider-Man. The movie. Yeah. What about it? Marissa Tomei. Oh, that's the actress
you were talking about. Oh, okay. Is, is, is Tom Holland's Aunt May. She's hot. That's right.
Now watch My Cousin Vinny. She won the Oscar for My Cousin Vinny. Really? Yeah. When did My Cousin
Vinny come out? 90s. 1990. Okay. 1990. One of the best movies, man. One of the best movies. Okay.
I gave you two dynamite movies. All right. And Austin, look through them computer screens. You
too. Okay, buddy. Yeah. Report back. You watching with your girlfriend? You and Marissa, you're
going to watch it. Melissa? Marissa? You and Marissa. If you watch Roadhouse with Marissa,
it does have a scene where Patrick Swayze shows his, uh, his hind parts and you might, you might
lose her. I'm just saying if you can't compete because he is real sexy in that movie. Is he
lazy? Not. Yeah, he was. That man's sexy. You know what I mean? Patrick Swayze. You knew Patrick
Swayze? I know who Patrick Swayze is. Yeah. Yes, sir. Patrick Swayze coming in hot. And he can dance.
And he can, and he can fight. It's a real good movie, man. He comes, he's, he's the cooler. You
know what a cooler is in a bar? No, what's the cooler? The cooler is somebody who comes in.
They're supposed to keep the piece. They're the lead of the bouncer, whatever. All the bouncers,
they're the head where these bouncers might be like, I'm gonna kill you in the side of the
space. He's like, no, the cooler's like, no, he's always like, take it outside. If they want to
fight, don't fight. If they, if they hit you, whatever, all these things, he says, all these
things, he says, get it out, take it out, make sure it's outside. Yeah. Get them outside. He's
not, he don't want, he don't want to fight, but he can. And when he does, it's lethal.
Really? Bad, bad dude. It's lethal. Bad dude. Yeah. The claw. There you go. Oh,
shit. You got it. You got it. Is that some kind of like jugular thing with the claw?
Now you're feeling it. Okay. Now you're, now you're feeling it. Okay. Yeah. So anyway,
watch that. And yeah, what was I saying about myself? Metal. Metal. Metal. I'm a metal artist.
You don't like metal. You're not a fan of metal. Well, I do. I grew up listening. So I grew up
listening to gospel, like, uh, like black gospel, uh, Mahalia Jackson, you don't know any of these
people, Mahalia Jackson, Rance Allen, uh, little Kirk Franklin, people like that. And then that
morphed into, uh, R and B boys demand, people like that. And then that kind of morphed into
hip hop, which was Beastie Boys at the time. Oh yeah. Um, then Dr. Dre, uh, Snoop Dogg. I actually
the night before last, I was telling some people how when I did that ice ice baby thing,
I actually had two of those old hip hop songs that just live rent free in my head.
The lyrics, you never forget them. Like I have to look at lyrics. I always have my iPad at shows,
and I'm looking at lyrics to make sure I don't forget them because it's, it's the most embarrassing
thing ever. When you're sitting there singing, you go, play something, CJ. You know what I mean?
And then, uh, so I have my lyrics all the time. So I can always reference, but with ice ice baby,
I never need lyrics for that song because I wrapped that so much in my head. Same way with
nothing but a G thing. Right. So it was, uh, it was one of those two songs I was going to do.
And I just recently, eight years later, just now posted the nothing but a G thing version of
those two songs, but it was like, uh, one, two, three and two, the fall snoop doggy dog and Dr.
Dre is at the door ready to make an entrance. So back on up, you know, we're about to wrap this up.
Give me the microphone first so I can bust like a bubble. Compton and Long Beach together. Now you
know you in trouble. There's ain't nothing but a G thing, baby. Too low doubt G's going crazy.
It's like this and like that and like this and uh, it's like that and like this and like that
and uh, it's like this and we ain't got no love for those. So just chill to the next episode.
You see what I'm saying? God damn. So I was, I was doing a picking thing with that. And then I was
also doing the more Hawaiian type thing with the ice, ice, baby. And I just so happened to choose
the ice, ice, baby and do that. So, but at that, at this group that we first came in, we just got
into town and we went straight to this event at the Anderson house in Tampa or whatever. And uh,
I was telling them that story and I played a little bit of that and I was telling them that. So,
but that, that kind of job, I remember, but those, see those lyrics, you grow up rapping that because
I used to actually rap that at karaoke nights and like shooters in Memphis. You know what I'm
saying? You know what karaoke is, right? What is it again? Marty? What is that? I don't know that.
Karaoke. You say Patrick Swayze? I don't know. Is that where I would know Mr. Marissa Thomei from?
Karaoke. No. So we would go to these, these real cowboy like country bars. My friends and I,
we were kind of like, we were kind of like trove makers back in the day, you know? So we were
always looking, if you want, like CJ said, that was actually true. Back then I was actually a
trove maker, you know, back in those days. So it was like when he, I forgot, you were, it was
something to do with my best friend's little sister because their little sister was in the
same grade as him. Something happened and uh, I don't, I don't even remember, but he, he tells it
like, I think that's what you told me, right? Yeah. There was, it was essentially a birthday party
and somebody had told one of the girls that either me or my buddy had said something derogatory
about the girls and we didn't. We were just happy to be there, like meeting new people and hanging
out. And we knew, we knew them, but there was other people there like Marty and Randall and
the old, the upperclassmen, you know, so we were excited. But uh, yeah, Marty and Randall and crush
that, crush that excitement. Yeah. It wasn't even a big deal. You know, we got out of there fast.
Like I said, I can run faster scared than most people can mad. So we got out of there quick.
It wasn't that big deal. Yeah, we got out. Oh, we had to run down a streetcar or mothers. It wasn't
that big deal. Yeah. 89 Ford Festiva peeling out one tire. Do 75 miles an hour. If you turn
the air conditioner off. I do. I definitely, I still don't remember that. I remember that party,
but I don't remember you being at that party at all, but I remember that party. It was in the
garage. Yeah, right? It could have been anybody. I think like it could have been. It really could
have been at that point. It wasn't part. I didn't take it personal. But we've done that a lot.
Like Ronnie and Randall and me, a lot of times we would, we would find people that had either
said something wrong to her or whatever. Yeah.
I'm not, I'm not to incriminate myself. We would beat them up. You know what I'm saying?
Like, how dare you? You know, it was horrible. How dare you? How dare you talk to her like that?
But I'm not saying that's the way it is. We're just looking for reasons to beat the
shit out of people. We really were. And that's horrible. That's horrible. I'm ashamed of that
in my later years, but that was the case back then. So we would, I say that by preface it
to let you know that when we're in this country place, this country bar, it was all,
you know, if you got up to karaoke, it was country music, like old school country music,
like a family tradition. Get on me. Want to know, hang on. Why do you drink? To get drunk.
Hang on. Why do you roll smoke? To get high. Oh, high. Must you live out the song that you roll?
To get paid. Over and over, everybody made my prediction. If I get stoned and sing all night
it's a family tradition. So like you, they want to hear this. All right. They want to hear all
this. So then I get up, I got to tell the guy, I'm like, y'all got nothing but a G thing. He goes,
really? I say, yeah, nothing but a G thing. And I'm not talking about one, two, three, and two,
I'm talking about, you know what I mean? Like that's what I'm talking about. So then that starts
playing. Everybody's like, look at this is white dude up here. And like that, what are we about?
Like they're getting, they're not, they're a little edgy. But we knew that's what was our
intention, right? Because we were idiots. So we really were just idiots. So he's like, let's see
what kind of ruckus we can cause. And then so he gets up there and then I go one, two, three, and
two, the folks Snoop Doggy Dog and Dr. Dre is at the door ready to make an entrance. So back on up
because you know, we're about to rep this up. Give me the microphone first so I can bust like a
bubble. Compton and Long Beach together. Now you know you in trouble. Ain't nothing but a G thing,
baby, to low doubt G's going crazy. Death row is the label that pays me unfaithable. So please
don't try to fade me. So then I'm doing this and I'm saying the whole thing. Next thing I know,
I'm watching these people and Ronnie Randall are back there. They're back there in the back going,
you know, because it's like it's the intent is to cause a ruckus. Yeah. And then you start seeing
these kids, you start seeing these cowboys go, you know, and the next thing you know, they're
up there and they got there. They're all doing that. They got the hats off and they're doing this
and I was like, now this ain't going the way we are, but this is cool right here. This is cool,
man. So they wanted me to come back all the time at this place and ended up making friends where
it was like a real, it was a moment where the reason I was, to be honest with you,
um, my dad, when I was growing up, my brother, and are you got, you got siblings? Yeah. You got a
brother? I have a step brother and a half sister. Did you fight with your step brother? Yeah. Like
fist fight? Yeah. Yeah. Actually, not like a real fit, not like a real fist fight. We got,
we never got into like a legitimate fight, but we got into a lot of fights where it was like
wrestling. Yeah. A lot of scuffling. A lot of scuffling. Well, me and my brother, we got in
fist fights, like legit fist fights. And my dad, this is where this stems from. See, my dad,
instead of saying, did you ever get in fights with your brothers? Well, no, more scuffles.
Yeah. What did your dad say to you? What was there? What was your, what was their advice to you?
Uh, I mean, when my, I have a younger brother, so in times where we would get to scuffling around,
and he'd be like, you know, you know, go outside and we would wrestle it out, you know, and then
as the big brother, you're trying not to hurt your little brother, but you just want to show
him who's boss. Let him know. Hey, that ain't cool. Marty's dad was like, well, he gave y'all gloves.
Yeah. Y'all put on the boxing gloves. Yeah. He literally said, yeah, y'all, okay, y'all gonna
fight? Put on these boxing gloves. That's what my dad was like. Yeah. You want to fight, do this.
So we, you know, we're boxing. We're literally in there. That's how we think, this is how you
handle problems. Like when me and my brother would get the argument, like, get them gloves, get them
freaking gloves. We're just doing, this turned into a thing where we would box kids from school
in our front yard. Like it would be like events. My brother was very good. He was very like an
actual, he became an actual, very talented actual boxer. He could have, he could have done it at
one point because he was actually very skilled. I was just wild. Like, yeah, when he, when we would,
when we would box, he was always like, you know, standing back, he's taller than me. You know,
he's like six, two. Yeah. And he, uh, he would always stand back and try to be scientific and I'm
just like, well, I'm like a bull. Like, you know, and then I'm, and then eventually I tackle him
and try to take him down because I was bigger in size, but not taller. Right. So then I could,
because he'd be popping me as I'm coming in like pop, pop like that. And I'm like, I'm like, I'm
like getting mad, you know, I'm getting mad. So then I just tackle him and I'm the MMA at this
point. And then I'm winning because I can, because I'm heavy, you know, I'm a heavy boy.
Stay down. Yeah. You can't tell it. I hide it well, but I'm a heavy guy.
You can seal it well. Yeah, I do. Thank you. Conceal it. I like that. That's one of them.
That's one of them. One of them rich boy words. Rich boy words. Conceal. Yeah. No. So when you,
I think as a child, it might not affect everybody because it was kind of the same with him and you,
right? But it, to me, because of the way my dad reacted to that, I was thinking,
that's just how you handle problems, right? You fight. If you got a problem, you just,
you just fight it out. And it was years later, I was like,
that ain't how you handle problems, man. That's dumb. But anyway, we made friends that night
at shooters instead of enemies where we thought we was going to make enemies. It just comes from,
it really stemmed from boredom. You know, that type of thing, just being stupid kids
and being bored. We had fake IDs just like you. We weren't even supposed to be in there. We were
underage in that, at that time. Really? Yeah. We had fake IDs too. To this day, I still mess up my
social security number because we had fake. Fake socials? Yeah. I might be a little bit like
John Bociak. I'm more like him than I thought. But all I did was change the last number.
So I would always remember my fake one. Yeah. To this day, sometimes I mess up my real one.
That's hilarious. And I asked my wife, I say, what is my, is my social, is it a two or three at
the end? What's the whole thing though? Hey, I got a lifelock. At least she's got it. At least she
has the she knows it. She knows it. So anyway, um, roadhouse, we should pipe some music in here
and you should do, uh, we should cover it as long as we don't get copyright strike, like, like,
pull it up, like play it through the headphones. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good idea. I need to, what
song should we do? I need to figure out how to whitelist your channel before you post it. When
are you posting this? I'll post it like next week. Or I can wait if it takes you longer.
Let just let me, uh, I'll give you my number. We want to leave here and you can text me kind of
your timeframe. I'm going to get on the horn and try to whitelist. Oh, we got this song. I really
would love for you to play this song. Uh, CJ, there was a tornado that came through, uh, Nashville.
Okay. Last year. And this tornado destroyed his house and his car and everything. He's inside
the house and his family's in a closet and he's holding the door shut, right? And his tornado
is destroying, taking the roof off his house. Yeah. And, uh, and then we're all over there.
Everybody's over there the next day. Like we're, we're trying to help him get his, whatever
stuff remains, we're trying to help him get it to a storage. And it's just pandemonium over there.
Traffic's back. Everybody's trying to get their stuff out of their house. The cops are like,
you got to have ID to get in this neighborhood, all this type of stuff. It's just wild. And, um,
so as I'm driving back home, this melody comes to me, uh, because I'm thinking about,
man, what that would have been like. Like I ain't never lived through no storm like that, but
sitting there worried about my family and then this thing's literally ripping the roof off and
stuff. And I'm sitting there holding the door shut and I'm thinking, what man, that'd be crazy.
Like you'd never forget that. And I go, I'm just driving. I got the phone up to my gun. I remember
hearing all the noises, all the screams coming from the voices, alarms went off, and we all
hear my heartbeat pounding out of my rear. Look up to the sky and I pray for grace.
God, please protect my family from an early great looking all around at the aftermath,
holding on tight to the ones I had. So I'm doing that in my phone. And I go, man,
and that just came out just like that, right? Immediately. It was like, God just put that
on me because I was just thinking about, and I wonder what, I don't know if it was the whole
thing, but whatever. Was it the whole, was that that whole part that I sent you the first time?
Yeah. I think it was like that whole first, that was the course. And I just, that came to me. I
sent it to him. I go, man, I said, you need to write this song with me because he's a genius
of music. And he says, man, yeah, I want to like now let's do it now. And so the next day I went
to his house, he got on the piano and we wrote that song and that day. Really? It was that day.
Yeah. That's wild. It's called The Storm. And it's on my new, it's off my new album. My new album
is not out yet, but that song's out. So I want you all to play that. Yeah. And then I want to try
to, but I want to make sure that you don't get a copyright strike. Yeah. We'll wait, we'll wait
till we release it then. Yeah. What, how big was the tornado? It was a, like, what was the, what was
the F3? F3, fuck. It was a, it, it spanned over like 90 miles. It started in Nashville, went
through East Nashville, hopped and skipped and went along the interstate, interstate 40,
and just kept going to East. So it was, we had people 15 miles away from our house
that had our pictures, pictures from our pictures that were in our shed of my wife when
she was a kid. And they're like, does anybody know these people on Facebook? That's 15 miles,
like straight. Crazy. You know, we got extremely lucky to make it. And how much damage did it
actually do to your house? It took our roof off. We had a giant two car garage behind our house
that had all our stuff in it. And that went like across the street into my neighbor's yard. The whole
building just kind of picked up and spun around and then parted. We had blocks on our, on our
foundation under our house that just pulverized, exploded. What happens in a tornado is your house
gets wracked and it's like this. And the pressure of your, the pressure that's going on is shaking
your house, you know, so like all our windows broke and a big chunk of our roof was off. We
didn't really know on the inside. And my, she was two at the time, my youngest, Caitlyn said,
mommy, raining, they were in the closet. And so the water was coming in like the rain. So
we got them out, went into the hallway, stayed on a mattress for about 20 minutes and tried to
gather up what we could. And then actually a neighbor, I met a neighbor, I went next door
to check on the elderly couple. And there was a neighbor there who's a nurse and she says, oh my
gosh, they said, you have kids, are you guys okay? Do you need somewhere to go? And I was like,
let me talk to my wife. So I went inside and asked her and, you know, she agreed. We packed up a
quick suitcase of what we could, pajamas and whatever. And we walk out the front door and the
girl, her name is Joanna Smith, the girl that I saw at the neighbor's house knew my wife. They had
swimming lessons. Our kids took swimming lessons from the same place and we didn't know it. We
just moved into this house like it Christmas. So we didn't know any of our neighbors. It was like,
it was so wild. And now we know all of our neighbors. Now we're all like, we're all tight.
It's amazing what a fucking catastrophe like that will bring people together. It's incredible.
And not to mention, he had an old 70s house or something like that, right? Our house was built
in 1969, which is probably a big reason why we made it. You know, they don't build houses like
they used to unless you really, really watch and make sure they do what they're supposed to.
I don't think that was bearing it. Like if a tornado wants to take the house, it takes the house.
It don't matter if it's building, you know, 50s, 60s. If that tornado would have, if God wouldn't
have, if God wanted that house gone, it's gone. And that's the thing with tornadoes too. They're
so, they're like not that big. Well, if it's an F5, an F5, I mean, what's the biggest of tornado?
I think it's F5. That's the, what's the widest it gets?
F5, ain't it? Well, the F5 correlates to the wind speed. So we had like 130, 140 mile winds.
And I think they said that ours was 800 feet wide, 800 feet wide. So that's not that fucking wide.
I mean, that thing, whatever that thing takes out, I mean, is gotta be, you gotta be really
fucking unlucky to be right in the path of that thing. Well, I don't think, I think that it's not
just being in the path of it. It's also, it's slowing stuff, you know. It'll pick up trucks
and just chunk them into your house. So it's not just, hey, I'm in the path of it. It's, hey,
I was in the path of this cow threw on my house. And the scariest part is there's no, I mean,
how much of a warning did you have for the tornado? Zero. Zero. You had no idea.
We went to bed like any other night. We, my life was in bed, which is like 1245. She's
here, something is a siren. She's like, why is there an ambulance in our neighborhood? And then
she hears it again. And then she's like, CJ, get up. And I got up and for some reason, my shoes
were there by the bed. I put my shoes on. And then our house alarm, ADS security, is read as
your curtains. It wouldn't normally you can like hit like, okay, I'm here or whatever. It didn't
do anything. You just beep, beep, beep, beep. So it was, it was really, really fast. What was that
on the alarm? Was that a tornado warning? It said take cover now. Really? Oh my God. So that, that,
that alarm company was like the go hide, get, you know, and my life, my life was really upset
and frantic. And I grew up, we grew up in Arkansas. So we're, you know, we've tornado alley. Yeah,
we've hunkered in the, in the hallways and I've watched the tornado, you know, two miles away.
Like, really? It's not like it's not a big deal, but you take way more precaution than you actually
have a result. And so when you grow up doing it too, like so much, yeah, like, because you're
always like, there were so many tornado warnings in Arkansas where we grew up all the time. Every,
every summer you got tornado warnings and then there's like, man, you hear the sirens,
y'all have tornado sirens here? I don't think I've ever heard of tornado sirens. Yeah. Well,
they used to test hurricanes here. Yeah, they used to test the tornado sirens every Friday.
And you would hear this.
Oh, that's a tornado. Yeah. It was this massive. It's like the May Day siren,
like the one you see in like the fucking Doomsday movies. It's what it felt like. Yeah. So then
after you, when you hear that thing going off, if it ain't Friday, you should test it on Friday,
wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah, they would test it. So on Friday, you go, okay, they're just testing it.
So heaven forbid a tornado come on Friday when they're like, yeah, no big deal. They're just
testing it. But when you heard that thing growing up as a boy, he's like, okay, well, it's time.
We need, we need to really take cover. So we need to be at the lowest room in the house,
the middle room in the house. And when you do this so much over the, over time,
it almost, you almost become numb to it. Yeah. So you're like, nothing ever happens.
You're like, my dad and I, we used to be watching TV and the living room with the door wide open,
watching the storm outside, you know, not even taking cover. We just be like, yeah, it's all
tornadoes coming. Yeah. They're gonna hit here. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because you just,
you've done it so much, but and I'm sure that's how you were 100%. I wanted to look out the
window. I'm like walking to the back. We had a back door that went on a porch and my wife was
just screaming like to get back and get away. And, and I mean, it was like that. I mean, I just got
back to the hallway and sat down and put my back against the wall or my back against the door
of the closet that they were in. And I put my feet on the doorframe of the bathroom across the hall.
And I just held it shut and had a mattress over me. And it was, you know, exactly what you would
expect, the loudest sound, the loudest sound you've ever heard in your life. And you had your kids
with you too. My kids and my wife were in the closet. It was a little 69. So little closets,
little bathrooms. It was a tiny space. Yeah. We got them shoved in there. I come fit. Okay. You
know, big boy. Fuck, man. But, but we made it. That's the craziest thing. Yeah. We made it. You
know, God has blessed us abundantly through this. I have a brand new house, brand new nice house. I
mean, it's paid for it. Insurance was huge. Really? Huge, huge, huge. It didn't, it didn't
your payment the same though for this brand new house? The crazy thing is that it didn't affect
our mortgage. So that's amazing. So the house that we bought, you know, we bought for a certain
amount of money in this house that we have now is worth a lot more than that. But our bank and
everything is still the same. That's incredible. That's, that's, I don't hear those kind of stories
very often. Yeah, you don't. It's really banks and insurance companies doing the right thing.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That don't happen. We fought for it. You know, my wife, my wife used to work
in insurance, so she knows and she knows how to navigate the situation. And I mean, you don't
know how to navigate that situation, but she had inside, you know, working in that industry,
you figure out like she knew exactly how much we were insured for exactly how much we were,
you know, supposed to be getting when they, when they did the foundation, the structural engineer
came and inspected our foundation and found out that, you know, your house isn't okay to be built
on, you know, the insurance company wants to save as much money. They want you to rebuild it,
rebuild it just like this. It's going to be cheaper. But when the foundation is compromised,
you, you have no choice. And then you're dealing with the city that you live in and all their
zoning stuff. So it's been a ride. It's been a heck of a year. You know, I was just in a church
last Sunday and the preacher was talking about Noah and the flood and he goes,
there's life after the storm. Right. And I just, I just thought about that because
life after the storm is better than it was before it. Because it wasn't just, here's the thing,
it wasn't just the fact that now he's got a brand new house. It also that combined with COVID
really reset you because you were, he was literally on the road. He was always gone.
Like to me, always gone from his wife and children. So all those things where
most musicians look at his, this is the worst, man. Like I'm this, he kind of said, man,
I'm kind of, kind of thankful that now I'm actually spending more time with my family
than I ever was, which that's the reason I never signed a record deal
because they want you to be on the road touring all the time. Yeah. So I said, well, I'm not,
I'm grown now. So I'm, that's why I said, at the beginning of the show, I said,
my, I have family members that told me I couldn't sing. Right. So circling back that, that was
the reason why that would help me back. And that was a good thing because I already had kids when
I started actually getting a little support. So when he, now he, he knows, he's living the life
that, that I've always from when I first started this thing have always said, that's what I'm,
that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to, I'm not going to, I'm not, I will, I will quit music
before I choose music over my family. Right. Right. That won't happen. No. I'll work in a
factory or whatever. Nothing against factory, factory work because somebody's got to do that.
You know what I mean? That's fucking, I just got to fuck people up psychologically,
especially from a young age, which is always being on the road, just being around these
fucking old manager, old people telling them what to do. You know what I mean? I hate old people.
Yeah. Me too. Especially when, I mean, it's got to be so fucking weird when you're like a little
kid. I don't hate old people. I don't want to get canceled. I love old people. I have old people
in my family. You're canceled. It's too late. He's like, he's going to cut it out. That's going
to be replaying over and over. That's going to be the clip. He's going to, he's going to,
he's going to put that as a stinger. Marty's saying, I hate old people. You're going to be right there
next to Marilyn Manson. Yeah, right there, man. I'm right up there with him.
Um, what was I going to say? No, we get crazy fucking hurricanes over here. Like we had a couple
of years ago, one of the scariest hurricanes that I've experienced was Hurricane Irma. I don't
know if you remember Hurricane Irma. It was a category five. It went right up through Puerto
Rico and literally came straight up the center of Florida and it was the strongest hurricane,
like the strongest it gets. And it came right at the center. It was like literally headed right
for this town, right over this building. Basically, like, was that the one that they said was coming
in a weird direction that they, there was one that came through, came to Florida that they said, uh,
was going a different flying and going blowing a different way than normal. Like it was, they,
they normally come from the, uh, the East coast, right? They normally come from the,
yeah, they come from like the Atlantic ocean over by like Africa's where they formed. Yeah.
And then they said there was one that was coming, the opposite coming from the West coast area,
like not only the West coast. No, this wasn't that. I don't think this was that one. But yeah,
I know you're talking to someone who come from like the Yucatan. No, this wasn't that one. Yeah.
This one came from like the, like the deep Atlantic and it was like really, it was massive in scale
and it was also like the strongest hurricane we've had since like Andrew, which took it. I do remember
this one. This is the one that people were evacuating. Oh, bro. It was like, yeah. Everybody,
this place was a ghost town for like two weeks. Did you evacuate? No, hell no. I was like you guys
with the, because I grew up here. Right. I've been desensitized. Okay. Me and my friends
growing up in high school, whatever hurricanes come, the bridges all shut down. We all hop on
our surfboards and paddle across the inner coastal and go over to the beach so we could go out in
the ocean and surf, you know what I mean? When the hurricane, when the waves are really, wow.
But meanwhile, because this town is so full of snowbirds and people moving down here from up
north, half the, half the fucking population down here is on the highway trying to get out of Florida.
And it's literally, it was like, it was like something out of a fucking
Pandemonium. Yeah. It was insane. And we were just like, you were just out there surfing.
And then at the very end, like the day before it's supposed to hit, it's like, this thing's not,
I'm like, it'll, it'll calm down. It's not going to hit us. It never hits us. It always
weakens when it hits land. And then it didn't. It was still category five and it was coming right
out. It was like, fuck, it's probably the most scared I've ever been for in a hurricane.
You were actually, you were actually scared. It was the first time I've ever been scared.
You thought you were going to die? I thought, I thought our roof was going to blow off
at the worst part. But luckily we had this like big, I built this poured concrete countertop in
the middle of my house in my kitchen. You got under that? So we were like, fuck, if it
worst comes to worst, we could get underneath this concrete countertop. If the house blows away,
this countertop's not moving. So that's the only thing we had. Luckily it didn't rip through.
Did you get under it though? No, we didn't. Almost.
It wasn't going to work very good for you. The hurricane went off to the right. The last second
went through Orlando, like a, like an hour east of here. So we got lucky. But yeah, I heard you.
Hurricanes reach Orlando? Yeah. Orlando's not by the beach.
Orlando's in the middle of the state. I know. Hurricanes. That would be more like a storm,
wouldn't it? Like cause we, that's where tornadoes come from is from the, you know,
the fronts and the sometimes the, the hurricanes, you know, they, they, they tropical storms,
wherever that's what causes like the storms we get, but it's not called a hurricane at that point.
Yeah. They still call it a hurricane in Orlando. Yeah. The hurricane. Yeah. It's a hurricane. I
think it's the hurricane is defined by like the strength and the size of it. And it's,
it can go, the hurricanes, usually they like fizzle out and die after they've been on land for
hundreds of miles. Florida's like 200 miles wide or something like that. Yeah. So it could,
a hurricane go right across Florida, the other coast and still be a hurricane.
I didn't know that. I just, I thought that the hurricane was only called a hurricane
when it hit land, right where it hit land. So like right on the, the coastal regions,
that's the hurricane. Then when it gets past that, it turns into storms. That's what I thought.
No, I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I'm not a weather man.
I thought you were a weather man. No, I mean, I know you said that when it came in. You said
you're either a weather man, a tow truck driver, or a lawyer. You remember, I remember you saying
that. Yeah. Let's play the song. Let's play the song. Play the song. Let's do it. Storm.
The storm. Is this it right here? That's it.
I remember hearing all the noise. All the screams coming from the voice. We've got a good video too.
The alarms went off and we all hit. My heart beat pounding out of my rear.
Look up to the sky and I pray for grace. Got peace protect my family from an early gray.
Looking all around at the aftermath. Holding on tight to the ones I hate.
Holding on tight to the ones I hate. I could think about it for a long time.
Ponder everything that could have happened in my mind. But instead I'm looking into my baby's eyes.
There's a lot of this actual footage of the aftermath. Yeah. He and I rode around. I just filmed it.
Came through the night when we were lost in dreams. Pray for me. Those things are not exactly how
they seem. I make videos now and they're a lot better than they are. All about that bass.
I'm saying they're the best. They're better. All the screams coming from the voice.
Larms went off and we all hit. My heart beat pounding out of my rear.
Look up to the sky and I pray for grace. Got peace protect my family from an early gray.
Looking all around at the aftermath. Holding on tight to the ones I hate.
Here we go again with another day. All these people showing love in a million ways.
While all around the world they pray for self gain. I'm on my knees thankful for amazing grace.
I just hope it could have turned out very differently as I dig through all the rubble,
wreckage and debris. Pray for me. Those things are not exactly how they seem. I'm trying to be
strong and be a rock but in my head I scream. I remember hearing all the noises. All the screams
coming from the voices. My arms went off and we all hit. My heart beat pounding out of my rear.
Look up to the sky and I pray for grace. Got peace protect my family from an early gray.
Looking all around at the aftermath. Holding on tight to the ones I hate.
The storm makes us stronger. Where did you guys shoot this?
Nashville. I mean where were you? What was the building you're in?
That's actually the top of a bike. Oh okay. Yeah.
They had a piano. They had a grand piano on top of the mic for real.
Look up to the sky and I pray for grace. Got peace protect my family from an early gray.
Looking all around at the aftermath. Holding on tight to the ones I hate.
The storm makes us stronger.
Whoa.
Hell yeah. That was fucking awesome man. Thanks brother. Love that. I appreciate that.
Yeah that's uh that's the new single that came out. There's that one in the picture
the song called pictures. It's actually a hip hop song. Really? Yeah my new album.
How many songs are on the album? I have about 25 songs that I won't put on it but I want to
probably narrow it down to about 14. That's why it's been supposed to come out two years ago.
Really? Yeah it was supposed to come out two years ago but it's yeah it's money. Yeah. It takes money
to get stuff recorded. Yeah and then you end up spending a lot of money. I spent I don't know
$300 on a drum track that I don't want to use now on several different versions of a drum track
I'm not happy with you know and so I don't even want to use it so I just at this point I probably
won't use a drum track at all but I still spent that money you know what I mean? Yeah so stuff like
that happens and you it really eats into your budget right you know and because you then you
gotta figure out how to because it does no goodness to make an album people think well man you need
to make an album. I got three albums you know you look up marty rake project everywhere there's albums
all over the place yeah but you gotta have you gotta have a way to market it you gotta have money
to market an album right yeah so and that's why that's really one of the main reasons uh that I
started my podcast again because you know how long you've been podcasting? Uh about two years.
Two years? Yeah. I was podcasting in 2007. Fuck. Are you serious? Before Joe Rogan,
before all those people. No way. Yes sir I mean I haven't been doing it this whole time but back then
my goal I saw podcasting and I go this right here's the wave of the future back then right
it got podcasting got no respect back then but there was very few podcasts I would try to get
these guests to come on the show and they I'd be like you know I'd like to have you my podcast
they'd be like a pod what what's that? What does that even mean it's a weird word isn't it?
Yeah pod. The fuck did that come from? That's a good question. Like where did that come from? Did it
begin in a pod? That might be where it came from. Was the iPod out there? I don't know. Did the iPod come
out in in uh before 2007? Awesome. When did the iPod come out? Like probably 2000. I bet it did come
out. I bet that is what it came from. Probably right. Yeah surely. Huh 2001. 2001. I don't know when
podcasting started 100% but it wasn't it wasn't long it wasn't it started just a just a shade
before I started podcasting because back then it was hard to find a podcast if you wanted to hear
a podcast it was hard to find it and we were doing the show and it was kind of like the show we do
now which is called The Marty Ray Project Chats. Yeah. And it's a lot like this. Okay. The same
where do you post it? Everywhere. Everywhere. Same way you do. Okay. You post yours everywhere right?
Yeah. Yeah. So we we did that but even we did it back then too but there wasn't as many places
there was like I think there was just like two or three places that you would post a podcast and
Apple was the biggest place the only still is right and it's the only place you really cared
about back then so but back then anybody that posted a new podcast they were put on if you if you
gave a good eight weeks that you were put on the the new and noteworthy for podcasts back then. Right.
So I had we had good success right out the gate because we were like some of the only people doing
it back then and actually had Darius Rucker on that's very rude of you to yawn like that.
He's falling asleep. It's a long one. Sorry I'm boring you. Kept me up all night Marty.
Yeah. Anyway we had Darius Rucker come on back then I had to I had to make him think I was
I was when I was thinking about doing it at first we were calling it something and
and then I changed it because I got tired of explaining to people what a podcast was I was
like it's like radio but it's not radio and there we go oh it's radio I'm like no it's not radio
there I go I don't want to do that thing I'm I only do radio shows I'm like oh okay whatever
so then I changed the name and I called it Memnash Radio that was the name of the podcast
so that it would fool people and it did it worked people thought it was a radio station that's pretty
genius and I was able to get guests like big-time guests like Darius Rucker you know Darius Rucker
is I'm I'm hoping I know who Darius Rucker who do you know both is yep so I was able to get him on
I was actually the first concert I ever went to my whole life wow was you at college no I was
probably like six years old my dad brought me wow are so you still fan uh I haven't I
saw I haven't listened to him in a long time but I'll always be a fan of who do you know
nice yeah I like Darius Rucker a lot had his number for a long time used to text him randomly
until he blocked me from the that's true that's true I had his number in my phone for a long time
and uh because of that podcast years ago I just had his number and he just lived there I didn't
text him a lot but every now and then I would bring it up like now if I had his number right now I'd
text him I'm like what's up bro I'll show you that or I would call him like like with Burt
Kreischer you know who Burt Kreischer is yes yeah so he was on my podcast really yeah and this is a
hilarious story about how that came about and it was it was because I'm very persistent yeah if I
want somebody on my show so he uh he he ended up following me on Instagram and so then I just kept
on at first I sent him one message and I said hey man I'm a big fan of your comedy I'd love to
have you on my podcast and that's an OG podcaster right Burt Kreischer right right so he goes oh I'd
love to and I said all right well how about this date right I gave him a date right and then didn't
hear nothing and I was like and then that went on for I was like question mark then I sent this emoji
yeah yeah I said this emoji right here then I sent another one yeah then this you know what I'm
saying yeah and I'm sending these these these messages and then he he actually reads I said read
some of those because this went on for a year mm-hmm a year I was sending these messages every month
going this is the the mart monthly marty message monthly marty monthly marty I said uh we'd love
to have you on I still love you I know you're busy you said you be on please please uh was he like
reading them you know he could see if they read them oh really just not responding he's just
not responding and then he would respond occasionally like it would go um three months and then he would
say uh we're supposed to be and he would say it wasn't that he just wasn't uh interested he actually
was interested but that's a busy dude man like you guys got three netflix specials uh a netflix
show he's got uh four podcasts I believe he does four podcasts he's got he's got Burt bill uh two bears
one cave well maybe three and Burt cast and I think there's one more but I can't remember the last
maybe it's just three then he's got that big show now game show on tbs does he really yeah I call go big
so he's a busy dude it's not like he's not busy and he was touring the country and then one time he
messaged me back he goes hey we're uh coming to Memphis we're gonna be in Memphis and I was like
well we need to no it wasn't he didn't say we're coming to Memphis I said I said I see you're coming
to Memphis uh I'm from Memphis let's uh do the show while you're there do the podcast while you're
there and uh didn't hear nothing back so then eventually he says I'm supposed to be playing at
the the rhyming in Nashville I said okay let's do it it's it he goes and then he says in Asheville I
said you mean Nashville and he goes uh and he didn't respond I said you mean Nashville again
and I said Nashville did you listen to uh no you didn't hear that one wait you're the story or the
podcast no the the podcast episode yeah with Burt so Burt gets on and this happened for a year this
was a whole year and Burt finally got on and uh I said read some of those messages so he read
through the messages he was dying he said he said I feel like I know you he said I feel like he
said you know it's like it's like getting to know your neighbor I said can I adopt you as my cousin
and he said a hundred percent I'll do that right and so it's just like that's the that's the thing is
Burt's cool though yeah is he he's very cool where's he from where's he live he's from I think he's
from here from Florida from Tampa really yeah I think so I can't remember getting from Tampa
yeah he's from Tampa because him and Mike Calta were friend or what yeah holy
shit that's insane yeah because we were talking about that on the show my fact Mike Mike when I
when he vetted me he uh because I didn't know we that wasn't planned to be on that show right
that came how did that get set up this guy the I didn't know anything about the Mike Calta show
right right it's a big famous show around here right I knew I know that now but the
club owner at side splitters where we did the show yeah um apparently Mike was just going to his
needed he needed he needed a guest so he goes he gets a lot of the comedians from there okay
because it's a comedy club right and he sees this bearded guy sitting there with a guitar you know
doing whatever and he goes I don't this is a I don't know if he's a comedian or what is this
he looks me up and he goes he goes huh Marty Ray and then he sees uh where Bert Preiser was on my
my podcast yeah and he calls Bert or he texts Bert he said he texts Bert he says hey uh
Marty Ray project he said yada yada yada and then Bert he said Bert called him immediately and he
goes you'll love it you'll you'll love it he said do it he goes okay okay so then I get a thing and
the Brian from the club he says he says uh you're going to be on uh Mike Calta show at nine o'clock
in the morning before the day of the show which was yesterday and uh I was like okay so I figured
to be honest with you I figured out here's a radio show a little radio show hopefully I'll sell
some tickets from it and uh then when I said it at the first event I was supposed to be on some show
called Mike Calta show or something I didn't know I say his name and they were like Mike Calta show
or whatever how do you say it Calta Calta okay like California yeah so they said Mike Calta show
he said that's a huge show he's that's a huge show that's what they said so wow okay so we go to the
you know go to his mansion and we do his uh his show because he's doing it out of his house you
know really and I was like I didn't know DJ he's got a mansion it's pretty big really pretty big
house yeah on the water not in on the water it's not on the water might have his own lake back
there behind it he's got he's got his own swimming pool indoor swimming pool back there
what yeah yeah radio I didn't know where I didn't know radio guys still made that kind of money
besides Howard Stern I didn't know that either that's what I'm saying but they got a podcast too
everybody's got a podcast now everybody has a podcast now yeah right back when I've started
nobody the radio stations they they look down on podcasts they still do probably no not now because
they're all got they're all got their podcast Howard Howard's the one who looks down on podcasts
Howard fucking shits on podcast you know Howard Stern show I'm not I'm not the biggest fan of
Howard Stern but his show is the one that made me growing up but that's where it was actually
one of my dreams growing up I was like I want to have a talk show like that really yeah like I want
to do that I want to bring people in and say hey play a little something for me hey how you doing
yeah get to know people yeah and they want to do that and I get to do that for a living that was
like my dream more than music to do that interesting yeah because of I've seen that the
I think I watch private parks the movie yeah after that I was like I want to do that man I want to
I want to do what he does and I don't even listen to his show even now I didn't I've listened to a
few things on YouTube and stuff but I do like the I like how he's I don't know it's he's very
shocky like he he'll he's like a shock moment yeah he's very blunt about things yeah and he does
like he wanted in that movie they talk about where he uh what was it about his wife she had
she had like a miscarriage or something remember that yeah he goes on the air and just starts making
light of it and then I think you I think they get a force after that yeah I think so yeah man I was
like this this is crazy I didn't want to do nothing like that but I was like it's crazy what the
links that he'll go to for his show yeah you know what I mean but I wanted to always be able to I've
always wanted to be able to do that so that's why I fell in love with podcasting because I didn't
have to go through the radio to restaurant radio I said I can I can make a podcast right now
and before I did mine Jared was actually podcasting before me really yeah this guy right back here
yeah CJ's getting boring anyway he's getting tired he didn't get any sleep last night he wants to
answer these texts there's a bunch of texts going on yeah Jared Jared's back I think he got over
his hangover he just went out there and vomited I did really I did yeah right right in your right
in your walkway well it's so nice that there's a ditch right here so I could just uh yeah I could do
whatever yeah perfect this is a this is a podcasting OG right here there's really yeah he used to have
how many podcasts you used to have um I have been a part of at least six podcasts six podcasts yeah
yeah he's got two he's got two now you're you make films and that's all I'm also a filmmaker yeah
really how'd you get into that um I actually went to full sale down here did you really yeah I
try to get uh it's too expensive for me it's like 80 grand for tuition yeah I could have been a doctor
for the price that I spent to get to be a did you pay that money back yet no I don't did you not no
hell no no one's still paying on that oh yeah there's that back really got so fucked up and I you know
my parents don't get a lot so 2006 2006 I see you I got you in high school oh god no golly man
you're still paying on that loan bro yeah man how many years was that and like you know he's
talking about that price but then you know there's no dorms so you pretty much have to uh you know
get an apartment and school is it really weird time so it's really no scholarships or nothing
no scholarships well I wasn't smart enough to get a scholarship anyways did they give scholarships
before sale I think they probably do now yeah now do you know how much you still owe on the loan
I don't I just try not to look at it how much is you how much you estimate it might be uh I
but that I still owe yeah it's gotta be in the $30,000 range golly and that was how many years ago
uh 2006 2006 but uh I like I said I spent well over a hundred thousand dollars because like I said
you had to uh you had to get lodging and food and all that and because uh the crazy schedule of the
school you you couldn't really work you know and there's no way to be forgiven of that debt oh no
no fucking way that's bad man and then what's bad about that because if you're a doctor you know
that there's a light coming at the end of the time right at some point you're like hey bring on the
debt yeah let it be $300,000 I don't care because I'm about to be making that in the year yeah with
him you don't know you don't know what you're gonna be making you know what I'm saying you go on that
you go into that type of degree you have no clue if you're gonna how much you're gonna make when
you're gonna make especially if you're doing it like like I'm I'm independent he's independent
he's doing it on his own uh so what's what's the name of your company uh flash forward films
in Memphis Tennessee flash forward film I feel like I've heard of that well he just started the
new one we just started but I heard of his old one yeah I uh I did um which we're not gonna talk
about that one I'll talk about the old one yeah yeah anyways um I did a search so I think I do own
that name I got the dot com so nice so do you're all all you're like all independent stuff for
yourself or do you I'm a friend answer mostly okay so uh but I'm trying to get my own projects
up and going but I'm a director of photography so I shoot stuff you know so and I also do uh
color grading but editing and I mean of course you have to know everything of course we're in
such a small market that yeah it's pretty much a lot of one-man band stuff so I'll go out and
just do set up and do sound and everything just for like corporate interviews but uh our bread
and butter is music videos really you want to see you want to see the first big music video we did
yeah pull up uh all my friends are bearded all my friends yeah you ever heard of 21 pilots
what's it called 21 pilots you heard of that man no you heard the song uh all my friends are heathens
you take it slow I think I have heard that yeah it's from Suicide Squad oh yes yes yes
I changed it all my friends are bearded and we did that video there was a lot of people saying
this is better than the than the uh original video you get that a lot four million views on this yeah
oh fuck there we go you shot this yeah he shot this one and edited it
this is at the uh Missouri State Penitentiary the deadliest 40 acres in in the history of America
more people died in that prison from a death row there yeah well there's a riot there was a riot
there too all my friends are bearded you should all that riding on that wall he put in there
see death row that's death row but it's it's actually death row for beers in my video
what's the museum now and they were really cool man they just let us go they like you know
gave us free reign they've actually come back that's fucking sick they've asked us to come back several
times they they've asked me to come back now this one if you play this one you might have to just
make them look this one up because yeah this was tricky to get the uh because this is actually a
recreation of so this is copyrighted well i mean i still make money on this yeah because i
recreated it from ground up i'm not using their track it's still my sound recording right but
you i don't think you would get flagged but you it would there would definitely some monetization
share is what i'm saying yeah gotcha
wow that's sick i love that that's a sick shot yeah that one too the one where he's playing in front
of everybody sitting on the chairs that's my little brother i'm choking out right there
we grow our bids out very well they call us bitter lies if you couldn't tell our bids so
boss gets attention grow will be a grand bell make inventions don't be jealous of the build
up sitting next to you that's all digital those screens were blank that took forever to do
to tape them blue or whatever i know man we just wrote over it okay that's a good square
probably we just wrote it no it wasn't a big deal quick roto job no we got this video wrapped
out in four days as far as nights like you know yeah we wrap shooting to add finished product
yeah that's fucking nuts it was it was you jump out of tired fat boy right there we were trying to
reach the uh no shave no there's the dead beard grace that's where all the dead years
because they wouldn't let us get in the grass yeah we couldn't dig holes in their grass
you know what i mean it's a museum i don't know why
see this is a fucking beautiful video thank you yeah that's he's he's super super town
and when he and i get together and work it's it's magical
because i know exactly what i want and he knows how to achieve it so do you direct it to
i'm kind of weak i'm kind of really directing my stuff most but he is a director okay most of
time but he does help as far as i go he's more of a dp on my stuff right and i say look this is
what i'm trying to achieve and then he'll he'll say this how we're gonna do it
i like composing the scenes and coming up with interesting ways to shoot things and
the color is amazing too thank you yeah and then that was back when he you know
he's actually grown in his ability to color now so that was a sick fucking video yeah so
that's what we do together you know when we're together it's like the just a dream team you
know i mean hell yeah what kind of other videos have you done like who contracts you do videos
mainly i do a lot of like indie artists okay and i actually work with a um with a director hot
key studios black heimbach and he used to be in a band called one less reason and he's like
toured all over so he's gotten he has incredible music contacts and so he's a music video director
and you know i'm his dp so wow that's how i get a lot of my work but then also i really appreciate
what i learned at full sale and i value my time there i mean yeah it's expensive whatever but i
think what it did was it it cemented what i wanted to do because i was a musician before anything i
was playing on bill street in memphis and stuff at 16 years old but i wasn't wanting to go to school
for that and like be working in a recording studio which is funny what i actually do a lot is in
recording studios right but uh he kind of goes it's full circle yeah uh but uh but basically
i was full sale full sale fuck 100 grand i would have been cemented and what i was going to do too
after well you have to right but the problem is that's been like what 15 years ish and i
just now i'm starting to make a living and i have to learn a lot so like i didn't learn to do what i do
there really like i learned the basics of it and found the love for it you know took took the idea
to the next step but it's taken 15 years to actually just figure out why a light should be where it
should be you know the the concept of what actually goes into doing it and making it look professional
and then now let's figure out so i'm in the stage of like okay now i know how to do it
let's play let's you know let's let's figure out what it's going to take to actually get to the
next step yeah what pull up something that's what commercial you've made a commercial i've made
or whatever whatever put me on the spot yeah pull up we want to see we want to see what you got
oh man see i don't like uh i'm not very good at at i mean i know quite a bit i've learned a lot
about lighting and stuff from like working on movie sets but uh i'm not a fan of doing i like
i'm fan of doing like natural style of natural yeah um you know there's no i mean i like to take
something that's natural and just put an edge on it or just like just fill it in just a touch and
just kind of work with what's there and it just comes out it that's styles now are more natural
there's a chris stapleton video that i saw the other day i can't really name it but it blew me away
just how natural the lighting felt and i knew it was i knew that it was lit but everything just felt
so raw and real yeah show you i want to show you a commercial that this won't get copyrighted um
um this is a commercial i did like probably 10 years ago for uh i entered before i got like any
real like big commercial jobs or big work i got a i got i didn't earn a contest a commercial contest
for land rover and i won it nice wow and then they paid me and they paid me to actually do
another real one so like these executives wow land over flew down from new york no way it was crazy
how much they pay they paid me uh eight grand night that's still good i was like 20 years old
that was your budget or that was your pay that was my pay congratulations yeah they paid they paid
everything just paid me okay you won we'll pay you we'll pay you eight grand to remake the commercial
and you got to tell them so on top of the eight grand that was you got to say this is what we need
and they got it yeah but it was it was really like so i shot the thing on a five d the original
one that won the contest and then so we're like oh we're gonna pay your whole budget to the budget
was like 30 grand and uh like pick everything you want so i'm like oh yeah i'm gonna get a
fucking red camera i'm gonna get uh all these big lights i hired like a uh a grip company to come out
and do all this stuff and it was a shit show i was trying to coordinate the the grip people i was
trying to coordinate the camera operator you needed a producer and i was trying to recreate it and i
just it just it fucking shit the bed wow it was nowhere near as good as the original one
were they not happy with it i don't know i wasn't happy with it i think they ended up using it but
it was interesting it was nowhere near as near as good as the original you still got your eight
grand yep it's cool that they let you go through that process though because in my head i was thinking
it was a learning experience that they would bring out their people there's like great we love what you
did now we're gonna do it but you can kind of guide us i think it would have been better if they
would have said hey here's the team we usually use you just yeah you direct it like yeah you direct
them that would that would have been a better play for them but i think that that's really cool
that they allowed you to take those steps yeah no it was definitely a crazy learning experience
one of the most stressful things i've ever done especially being so young you know yeah that's
crazy um yeah now you're just an old man here it is i'll be freaking out now brush your teeth
in less than 10 seconds with this revolutionary toothbrush let them make their money bro it was
created by yeah so it's a it's to promote their certified pre-owned warranty so it's to get people
to buy their used cars you got a good good looking dude he looks like the dude from uh super natural
and a superman kind of had a baby
i love this car he slapped it
it
it's paint me
it's not his car
that's good dude yeah man that's good no you killed him no man that's the commercial right there
handrover
that's good bro the tagline was know who your car's been with i love that like your buyer
used car know who it's been with you guys aren't familiar yeah it could work on that man i thought
that was austin talking yeah i thought i thought he was jumping in like what the freak is that
austin shut your mouth back there here i'm gonna show off one more to you real quick please the
last one i swear to god please this is one of my favorite commercials i ever did with hall kogan
this is to promote his uh i think i seen i saw that girl at uh coming out of the hotel the other
day there's a bunch of girls that had looked like that here this is to promote his beach bar
restaurant in tampa that he used to have i noticed that girls around here let their bottom butt
cheeks hang out nice buns brother thanks i got them at hokey feet the best ones in town baby
was that really from the behind that really wasn't jimmy hard i i pray yeah that was his real
he's got a nice one i'm very confused about things now
that was good man i actually worked on his uh reality show when i was in full swing oh did you
really yeah yeah the wwe one uh no it was like the hogan legends oh hogan knows best yeah it was
it was like the reality show and no way yeah man uh i work for pink sneakers productions on that
okay yeah yeah i'm very familiar with that yeah yeah that's fucking cool he should he should get a
reality show that was like the peak of reality tell yeah no no that was like a legit reality show
yeah yeah he should get a new reality show called hogan's heroes that's that is something isn't
yeah but it's old tv show it's an old tv show yeah but it wasn't about hulk hogan you know right
anyway so do you have hulk hogan in here i haven't had him on the podcast yet are you still in
connections with him yeah i'm still in connections with him i don't know if it'd be a good idea to
the podcast or not i mean he's i don't know it's always everything's always like a drama in his
life yeah well that's that's just good for you man it's good content yeah yeah it would be great
i don't think he's i don't think i've ever seen him on a another podcast
i don't think i've ever seen him on a podcast either i mean everyone else has a podcast
fucking rick flair uh the rock the rock stone cold has a podcast everybody at this table has a
podcast yeah everybody nowadays does have a podcast every single fucking and it's harder my dog has
a podcast it's harder now than it was back in the day instagram page it's harder to make it like get
like viewers it's hard to get downloads and whatnot now than it was back then because at least back
then there was a niche audience of podcast listeners and they didn't have much to choose from
so they were finding podcasts and down now it's just a boom i mean there's millions of millions
of podcasts it's insane how the shit changes like when i first started when i first got introduced
to the internet and videos and like videos like going viral or whatever it was always this like
short skits you know what i mean like short like sketch comedy things like that or like youtube
like prank videos like you would try to come up with the next like funny thing like that or like
remember uh nigga hega yes that's the first youtuber i ever started watching yeah he was like
from the cut he was on the he was like on the very beginning the the inception of youtube you remember
him uh you talked about him but i don't really like i've seen some things whatever happened to him
i've been hounding him on instagram just like i did burt christ really yeah trying to get him
on my podcast that would be fucking amazing he won't respond i don't even know if he runs his account
you know but i still i leave a comment every time i see it a post i go love to have you on a podcast
you're the reason i'm on youtube you know what i mean like he was literally a boy he was younger
than me he was a kid at the time he's making these stupid videos in his in his in his parents house
and i just would laugh at him and i was like man we need to do this we need to broadcast
ourselves that's what it's called youtube broadcast yourself and uh before google it owned it you know
and no ads it was just people anybody releasing whatever they thought was cool right broadcasting
herself so like he kind of put that little spark in me a long time ago i was already a grown man
and i was watching this these kids on that sounds weird you actually just bring that up yeah it's
weird it's weird that you started like you know you jumping into something that's actually controlled
mostly by by younger people you know yeah and and he was the one that made me go i'm gonna do this
i gotta do this you know and then so i'd love to see him on the show i don't know that would be
maybe he listens to this uh ryan if you're listening uh which camera that's that camera i think
ryan if you're listening i'd love to have you on my show brother let's be brothers
ryan ryan come on ryan where the fuck are you ryan just trying to grill your family
just trying to adopt more cousins man will you be my cousin i'll be your cousin
we're we're really i'm really trying to figure out burr we can be kissing cousins if you want
hey well better than wiener cousin i'm gonna lick you like you like you had that guy lick that
ryan rover ooh we promise yeah well it depends on where jared will take up my slack for other
this is a guy who'll eat anything will you eat anything i won't eat anything really what's the
craziest thing you've ever eaten the crazy thing i've ever eaten i mean the most nuts thing uh
fuck um probably a heart you made a heart i ate a heart of a cow of a cobra heart no not cobra
heart i think it was a cow heart i ate a part of a cow heart yeah how was it not very good i don't
think it was that good it was a raw no it wasn't rob's cooked where where where do they sell this at
you can get it at butcher shops yeah you can get it at butcher shops really yeah of course
there is this uh you've heard of uh
kopi luik coffee kopi luik kopi luik no this is a coffee that what happens is there's this weird
cat out in the wild and it uh it eats coffee beans and then it poops them out what and they take the
turd i've heard of this and they get the beans out and then they make coffee out of it it balances
the flavor i have that coffee we're doing that on our podcast we're gonna taste test this coffee
this poop coffee so excited to drink it it's very expensive it's the most expensive because i paid
this little bitty pouch i paid 60 bucks tiny pouch of coffee how many cups do you get out of that
it looks like it looks like maybe i don't know two because what if it's amazing and we just want to
keep drinking it then fork over some money and get some more okay do you just get you like super
fucking jacked on caffeine it's not even about that it's about the flavor it's supposed to be
about the flavor i don't know and they just harvest cat shit yeah i mean who who figured this out
right who who goes out there someone was like crappy ate all the coffee well no no the beans are
still here the beans are still here hey how do you figure it out that you can steal that this is
gonna taste good and why why does it taste different you know i'm saying yeah but anyway we're trying
it of course so we're gonna report back i can't wait to see that where did you buy it from amazon
silk road oh no it's not illegal it's not illegal sounds illegal it does he thought it was black
markets though let me tell you what we found was that website just called on bro is that your
is that your black market website started so gross and that's where you can buy drugs and crazy
shit on not the really the fbi if you go there now i think it says like seized by the fbi if you
learn about boziak did you know i actually knew about the before boziak but boziak knew all about it
i'm sure he did i see you see what else does over here you need do you have to pay for that coffee
with bitcoin those uh light coin like yeah no uh paid for with real money okay amazon points
paid for with real money amazon how do you say it again to the name of the coffee
kopi luak kopi luak yeah okay it's the one with the big cat on it okay all right i'm gonna try that
are you gonna try i'm gonna try it man i wish you were closer you could come try it with us
how far is it from did you drive here i drove here how long did it take you 10 hours 10 hours that's
not that bad it's not that bad you want to come up and i do want to come up there come up and be
on we'll schedule that show because it's it's not it's like we'll have you as a guest and my friend
showed a documentary uh in uh tennessee i forget the name of the town but the name of the documentary
it won tribeca film festival it's called oxyanna have you heard of it i think that it's a town it's
an old coal mining town where everyone's addicted to oxys everyone's addicted to harrowing was the it
was the movie poster uh uh like a pink neon pink on the front or no no no that ain't it then there was
a movie that came out of miffus that was you know what i'm talking about okay never mind
it don't matter he don't know movies yeah they don't get the same content you know what a movie is
uh yeah i think so he's very hard i don't know what a podcast is yeah you should try to look up some
movies all right all right let me know what you think about movies the next time we talk
i don't want to take up the rest of your day here no i appreciate i mean i don't know how long
we're about two and a half hours in i don't know how long your podcast how i don't know how much
longer you guys are staying in florida but i don't want to keep you here for the rest of you ain't
bothering us i'm talking about you your time is we can talk forever dude i think we uh you got to
cut us off i think we did a pretty good we covered a lot of shit this was a this was a great fucking
man i enjoyed it always i always enjoy because you know i like to hear myself talk yeah i like to
hear you talk to you give a beautiful voice you mean to send you some serenade you make your
voice memorable serenade me one more time you mean to make your voicemail and say marissa i love you
hey for his hey uh send this to your girlfriend arson
and you ever seen how you ever seen the private parts off the sebbian
you remember what i'm talking about oh yeah what he tells that girl to sit on the speaker
yeah oh yeah isn't that weird he's like go ahead sit on the speaker and he sits there and he does
it she's like having an orgasm right there on the radio live and and that really happened in real
life and you're like this is strange marissa would definitely do something like that if we had a
sebbian marissa would be on the city yeah what's a sebbian you know what a sebbian is you don't
know what roadhouse is you had that locked and loaded didn't you i was waiting i was waiting for cj
roadhouse roadhouse you had that locked and loaded the sebbian's like a uh it's like a saddle type
thing with like little knobs on it that the girls get naked and they sit on it and it
fucking and they have a remote control that makes it vibrate and they sit on it and they ride it
like a saddle it's not like a how did you say it as if everybody knows what this is i thought everybody
i didn't know what it was but i've seen it you don't have a sebbian in your house
bro i didn't know the brand name we all have them down here he threw it out like bro you don't have
a peloton it's like it's like the most common thing ever it's like a couch in your house he's
like mom mom's like hey mom's had did you get the sebbian cleaned uh hey uh go clean the sebbian
it's it's dirty it's filthy marty it's better if you don't clean it all right yeah
i'll download roadhouse and you go buy a sebbian all right i'm when you come to the show we're
going to test out two things poop coffee and sebbian's well i'll bring marissa i'll bring i'm
going to bring austin and marissa with me too so yes so we'll get it on the sebbian we're also doing
uh on that show we're doing uh again that's the marty rey project chats um
we're also going to test out my buddy who's the host the co-host of it chris wallin
he's actually a hit songwriter country songs you probably wouldn't know much about um
we're actually he thinks that uh you you like white castle or do y'all have a white castle here
white castles are right yeah no we don't have a white castle here where you can buy them frozen
okay well that's not are there crystal here i've been no there's no crystal here wow i've been a
white no slider sandwiches no no but y'all got some good burgers but i've i've had crystal and
white castles on road trips up north before which one better i don't remember i was so young
yeah you could care less probably no yeah you you're going off of a frozen box of white castles i
like bow jangles okay chicken biscuit okay sure that's good i mean you ain't gonna give me to
argue about any food i like bow jangles too but anyway my buddy thinks that crystal is better
you know you say crystal so i repeated you but we've always called it crystals i think white
castle is known to be better than crystal you know that's the first fast food restaurant
of all time really yeah i proved this to him he didn't believe me uh long time ago and i don't
know if you remember but he went and looked it up he googled me and it's true google it whoever's
listening or watching that's the first one ever and they're still unless they just recently changed
family owned they never they never franchised that's why they've never been all over the place
like mcdonald's florida right and that day not even in minnesota no yeah so i i couldn't get white
castle where the hell are they nashville only nashville no there are other places but they're
just speckled okay you know they're not like it's not even like crystal and make it definitely not
mcdonald's but anyway we're doing we're doing a blind taste test of that that's gonna be great
we're doing the uh to see if i can tell because it's really about me because i told them i said
white castle's superior to crystal so we're going to blind taste as that we did that with
the whopper the impossible whopper you ever had this no this piece of crap do you eat whopper
i don't fuck with burger king bro i don't like burger king well if you ever do don't do the impossible
whopper okay because it is not possible they're right if you have a vegetarian friend that you hate
give that to them we pull this thing out and like what it is is we the the producer he gets
plates and he puts a and b on them right so we don't know which burgers which was immediately when i
opened a i think it was a was it a it was a when i open a i smell this chemical type weird smell i'm
like i can tell you right now which one of these is a fake burger and without even taking a bite
it's this one so now i took a bite and it was it was the most atrocious thing ever was it really
yeah and you have all these people saying the only making videos you can't tell the difference and
i'm going what kind of freaking meat are you if you're if you're a vegetarian and you haven't
eaten meat in forever i will say that the texture is pretty there it just tastes like
chemically like um liquid smoke if you've ever put that in something anyways but
if you don't eat meat here's what i think they did with i hear it tastes like if a cat ate it
but it didn't make it better and then they said they think they said ah
add it out impossible whopper that's what it tastes like that's fucking awful you know
you know with that coffee marty i just thought that we should uh you know because we another
one we wanted to do is uh if you could tell the difference between starbucks and dunkin donuts
oh yeah i hate starbucks so i hate starball bro so we need to do the cat my man he's a freaking
fangirl of starbucks i think i think that the cop look i like actually like you know mom and pop
small like you know i'm so glad that i have somebody i think starbucks gets closer to the
to the flavor the best my favorite coffee i mean dunking notes is okay my favorite coffee fast food
is mcdonald's coffee really yeah i've never tried mcdonald's coffee really just uh i get large black
coffee from mcdonald's with cream and whatever you like in it but mcdonald's the coffee the flavor
is so consistent through ever it's a never different right and it's always good my favorite coffee is
as far as getting it from a store what's your favorite coffee gets from from a store uh i like
the stuff i figure what it's called it comes in the big uh yellow can it's called uh i can't
remember the name of it right now is it by the public it's it's a round yellow can like a tin can
is it the espresso like the instant coffee like that no no no he don't do instant coffee look at this
yeah yeah i was thinking of the yellow can that's some kind of coffee thing yeah i don't even pay
attention to what the fucking brand is but i always buy the yellow container have you ever
tried community no the big red pouch big you try community coffee i love community coffee i don't
know why where do you get it i think you can get anywhere really it's not like a it's not like a
bougie brand or nothing you should be able to get it at albertsons yeah but i love that coffee
what is that you guys have albertsons no i just i just live here he's from here he's trying to
he's throwing out the language you know the language if i just say kroger i don't know if
they have kroger here no there's no there's no albertsons here anymore either oh are those
going those are gone that shows how long it's been here yeah wow yeah bro just just went broke
yeah they went fucking all belly up it's all publics now wow why you gotta say belly there
there's a bunch of belly on this side of the table my friend there's a lot of belly over here
i learned that from i learned that from a real estate guy who weighs like 400 pounds
jewish guy from new york and he talked whenever he talks about anything goes out of business he
always says belly up yeah yeah he would know yeah he would know he sleeps belly up he's a fat
yeah that's what i am too unfortunately oh man i'm at the end of my liquid death all right
how long does it take you to die uh you don't die you what you do is you murder that's the treat
you murder your thirst so i will say this you kill you murdered your thirst i will say this
about this liquid death um i would have never tried this just because of the name i thought i
actually thought this was an alcohol yeah that's what it looks like everyone thinks it's alcohol
my buddy who's also been on my podcast you've ever seen the show uh Burt drinks that shit
does he yeah have you ever seen the show on netflix called uh slobby's world no i forgot you
don't watch tv oh you do all you do sitting here and do a podcast i forget when we're done he's got
somebody else's company he's like your ankle bags but anyway he was on my podcast too his name's
Robby and uh he must be sponsored by these people because he's always posing stuff about him as well
and i saw it and at the whole time i thought it was alcohol when you pulled it out
i was like that sounded weird too when he pulled it out yeah nobody it's whoever's just listening
i'm saying when he pulled out when he whipped it out the liquid liquid death
that company has the most genius marketing out of any company i've seen that i can remember
their commercials are fucking fantastic i'll tell you the most genius marketing with starbucks
that's why they're so nice if you remember what did starbucks do like what did they do
think about this this is genius what is their fucking logo anyways it's like a it's some kind of
demon mermaid anyway yeah it is it's some kind of demon sex god anyway the point is this here's
the marketing though this is this is actually genius they said what we're gonna do is we're
gonna first of all we're gonna write your name on your cup whatever you say though we'll write
so so how many people were saying we're gonna say we're gonna say uh we're gonna say uh stupid
little whore we're gonna say that and then we go okay stupid little whore and so then they would
take pictures of that and post it all are like here's our starbucks coffee and then that was people
were doing that and they were taking pictures because it was funny so then what did that do that
that brain that brainwash people so then you start seeing things that you don't really notice like
you remember the i keep talking about movies you don't know you ever seen the movie zoolander
audience my i've seen zoolander zoolander right you remember the the scene where uh the the man
models are in the dorm and then they go uh what did they say double double mocha frappuccino what
are the jitterbug jitterbug and then they're going they're in the jing jang god to my brain
that's a great month they're drinking starbucks right as they're driving and after that thing wake
me up before and they get to the gas station this is this is crazy they get to the gas station it
explodes the last thing you see is this starbucks cup going bam logo right in the center frame of
the screen people don't really notice it because it's so quick but i noticed it i said how much did
they pay he was intentional 100 percent intentional totally probably now go watch the scene at the
end of it when you go you don't even know you'll notice it now but most people it's just you see
that that cup goes it's that that that logo hits you dead center right there's no way it's not
intentional they had to make that's that's digital so they they made that cup do that right so then
that all that happened then the celebrities all that was the celebrity coffee that's that's really
one of the reasons i hate it because i'm like that you just like it because they told you to like it
like that's the way people that's the way a lot of people are today they because it's it's a
the cool place to get coffee right you know i mean all they're doing he is right though
they're just mimicking trying to mimic local coffee shops they're trying to act like they're a
local coffee shop right so they kind of got that little atmosphere and then they try to claim
that they're the ones they're they're the the the fathers of it or the queens of it or whatever
you know what i mean like everybody else is copying them but that's not the truth they're
just copying the local that's how the feeling was is this not true yeah yeah i mean i see what
you're trying to say but i also just think that they're they're they're you know you get a little
heated i'm about to get really angry i'm about to knock this shit out you're just a hot girl
no i just i just think the quality their quality is better and the and the flavors i don't know
yeah i don't know it's just too complicated for me it's just too hard to get a coffee from there
like i just like i just like basic coffee like whenever i have to go there to get my wife a coffee
it's there she has to send me like this two page long text of what it's called with this this this
substitute this for this right stupid then they can't just say large oh no you can't say what kind
of what kind of day yeah what kind of day i'm satanic cold are you having to read to order your
coffee is like i'll take a vente latte and you're saying these weird words and they're like i got
even there's an app with photos now marty is there one thing i do fuck with the starbucks
and now i just thought of it is their hot chocolate i like their hot chocolate i'll never
had it i'll go there for their hot chocolate sit never had that the only thing i've ever had from
there my wife used to go there a lot back in the day and the only thing i would ever get was the black
tea which is which was good but it wasn't like southern sweet tea or nothing but since she was
there i would get a black sweet tea and a scone scone scone can't go wrong with the scone scone
cool that's a great way to end this fucker yeah i was scone three hours tell everyone
where they could follow you and find all your music and and everything else oh we're not done
okay let's keep going at marty ray project everywhere please listen to the original music
give it a shot i love all of you the marty ray project chats is the podcast you can hear it
wherever you hear podcast and please rate and review like you hope they're doing with this one
you asked me what to rate and review your podcast yeah will you rate and review this one
i was 100 well well what do you give it this one on my show yeah a 13 star
you know what i mean it's weird you went 13 cha-ching you know you know why i said 13
because most people are scared of 13 i'm not superstitious so i choose like i really want to
put 13 songs on my new album just to show people i don't freaking give a i don't care about that
and that's why all this illuminati stuff's around and people are gonna be thinking marty put that
13 on there i know you know what you know what's funny this is real quick and i'll let you go
like i like i'm like yeah he's my guest he grew my guest now i'm real quick i'll let you get out of
here i am your guest the uh the the album i was i want to call it three i wanted it to be titled
three right dylan heart no because it's my third full album okay i got three albums but the first
one's an ep so i wanted to call this one three and the number three three three is a number for
completion right and that's even scriptural that's even in the bible so i did it on the album cover
i made this this uh image where it just got this little stamp and on the stamp it says
th r333 for three right and i posted this and i was like what y'all think about this thing they go
man i was hoping you wouldn't join the illuminati i was like what they was like yeah i was hoping
you wouldn't become a satanist i was like what the i'm the furthest thing from that and i'm like
what the heck are you talking about they're like you got all these threes man i'm like the 666 is
this number right yeah and then somebody said and then somebody said that's half a 666 bro i was like
well okay wow what does that mean what the fuck is 666 half of so what what is 1212 12 then
but anyway so then i just said you know i'm taking that off it's too confusing so it's just
gonna be a uh a self titled album this point okay anyway i love it and i want jared to be able to
say he's got a podcast called tour stories yeah what's it called uh i could give you all my deeds
if you want yeah give yeah give us everything uh you can find me on instagram at check the gate on
twitter at jared b callan and uh both my podcast tour stories and the movie crew on apple podcast
and one more person cj wilder he's a phenomenal artist here here you go buddy give us the deeds
you can find me on instagram at the cj wilder you can find me on facebook at bna cj wilder
and i think my twitter is just cj wilder please like and subscribe you see how often he doesn't
plug himself he goes i think my twitter's something you gotta have in the can man yeah marty what's
your only fans um marty ray does things dot com only fans dot com yeah that how it goes yeah
do you have an only fan you look like a guy would have it on you know what you know sandlot
yeah do you ever get compared to anybody on sandlot no i get compared to uh napoleon dynamite
and michael sarah i don't see that you see what i'm saying though sandlot you talking about the
the main dude no wait who are you talking about on sandlot not the catcher but the uh what's his
name i can't remember his name he's the coolest character in the whole thing what's his freaking
name shoot i don't know that's a freaking name it's the glasses alfalfa no that's not have you
seen sandlot yes austin you know what i'm talking about yeah i know he's tired i don't know what is
his name it's not smalls it's benny no it's not benny it's where the fuck are we talking about
this kid right here i don't know there he is oh squints squints i have heard that squints you've
heard that i have heard that yeah someone has called me squints before there you go if that's a
compliment now that you know that i know who you're talking about but but he does have the best part
i didn't say was a compliment he goes but i wasn't trying to tear him down he's he's better looking
than squints forever yeah that guy he could he could call me whoever he wants to call me fat
albert i don't give a freak this guy's not sensitive he's a podcast guy he's not sensitive
i'm sure i hope yeah i don't thanks for the liquid death you're welcome anytime man thank you for
coming down here all the way down here we came in all the way just for you i appreciate that man
anybody you know it turned into something really really amazing it did i think we thank you for
having us we formed a really strong bond here yes sir i hope we can do it again that was a weird
handshake we're gonna do that again because you kind of he shook my hand like this he's too fast
he's too fast he goes like this he grabs it let's go let's do it again get him there we go and look
these hands man yeah you got some big old i got some big hands i got a little baby hands
some massive i got a little typewriter hands this man's got hands like a gorilla
you've got meaty hands and he's got like bigger hands i got these big old
sausage fingers sausage fingers yeah mine are i got bony fingers yeah hey before i go though
what is the we we're trying to find some really good dessert i thought you're gonna say strip club
no you just turn the corner bro everywhere oh man tamper with some good dessert good dessert
yeah you don't eat this man doesn't eat dessert he doesn't want to what kind of dessert what kind
of dessert i don't give a freak what kind of dessert you eat like like an ice cream shop
i'd never mind on the dessert what's the best what's the best i've never had anybody ask me
where's the best dessert do you eat dessert like somewhere around here there's a place
there's a really fancy restaurant in tampa that has like this crazy extravagant like dessert room
see see now you're talking now we're talking this is like a high class we don't care about
what are you saying you guys don't look like you guys don't look like you make reservations
it goes you're a tow truck driver you're not going to this place you want to go to like a fancy
steakhouse that has a fucking dessert room yeah it looks like it's from a cabaret movie it's called
it's called uh oh no uh burns burns burns steakhouse in tampa yeah burns you've been there
i've been there a couple times yeah it's really you have to dress up to go there yeah you got to
dress up i think son of a maybe not maybe not i call him and ask him call make a reservation
well shoot but it's the best dessert place that's like fancy dessert you're gonna get in tampa
i think okay as far as i know what about food wise what's your what's your forte and food
i like my favorite one of my favorite food places do you guys like cuban food or you guys
i like cuban sandwiches but he likes there's a place called latera sita in tampa it's fucking
it's right around the corner from like strip club alley where like mazvinas and all those
like famous strip clubs our hotel is yeah it's called it's called the teresita it's like a little
like diner mom and pop like back alley looking place and there's all run by no one speaks english
in there and it's open 24 seven on the weekends and they have the best fucking like rice and
beans and pork and cuban sandwiches and in cuban isn't a lot of food hot though like spicy
no no not really it's not spicy no no no okay so cuban's your favorite and they have
fuck i mean they have the best uh cuban coffee they have uh you can get like i don't know everything
there is delicious i really highly recommend later that was called latera sita yeah latera sita
we might go eat there now that place is great i wish i could go there with you guys feel free
place is fucking delicious i got a shit to do i can't i forgot you got another podcast so far
tampa so fucking far yeah well you're the only person that says that everybody else is like
oh this is right down here like like tyler right when he booked me here i said well how far is that
from tampa he goes oh it's right down the road and i was like really well he's trying to convince
you to come do the podcast it's nothing it's nothing yeah it didn't matter yeah i was like
but then it comes out is like 45 minutes oh it's fucking it's a it's a drive it's out here you
out here oh yeah we're out here yeah out here on the on the beach it takes longer in florida to
get to places than it does back in tennessee i know it's so many people here bro it's like it's just
like it takes like forever so much traffic here it's crazy it's like fucking la this is literally
like la traffic or miami traffic have you been to la yeah i hate la i hate it too i can't stand
i hate i hate the traffic here i don't hate this area i hate the traffic of all coastal city all
coastal cities i hate the traffic and the uh uh architecture i don't like it you know i'm more
of a brick and mortar type thing yeah that's my that's what i like and i'm from tennessee and
arkansas that area so all here in la it's all stuck old like a lot of stucco stuff and they're
all wood frame houses it's crazy all those fires over there and everything's made of wood yeah
right we i just i was just there like a couple weeks ago and we were driving driving across
through on the highway like towards the beach in uh and santa and uh whatever right by the
airport santa monica and there's a fucking just casual fire burning on the side of the road like
flaming up the side of the interstate like 10 feet high wow a casual just a casual fire people
cars just going around it and uh and and you can see like two blocks away there's all these
apartment buildings being built wood frame just all wood apartment buildings i'm like wow
right it's crazy well i mean i don't know what else they're gonna build it with i mean metal but
metal metal studs but that's very expensive concrete block i mean i guess it's too expensive but
oh you talking about like cinder block building yeah like block that makes sense yeah yeah that's
true i didn't think about that there are cheaper to build it wood to frame them out with wood instead
of cinder blocks but people but even on the inside you still gotta frame it with wood right right
right right but when the whole structures would i mean i don't know it seems like a catch fire
easily right i don't know well let's test it let's test it let's go building wing burn let's go
build a house no we there's plenty of houses already built you want to you want to build you
want to set some buildings on fire yeah you know what i mean you know what i mean right now
he's like forget about the stuff i gotta do all right all right thanks guys all right brother
adios cheers
