What did you get your degree or whatever in?
So I studied theoretical physics.
I went to MIT for undergraduate studies and then I went to UCLA for my PhD.
Theoretical physics.
And theoretical physics.
Okay, cool.
And then what are you studying at the, what's the name of your company again?
Quantum gravity research.
Quantum gravity research.
So you spend your time researching quantum gravity?
Yeah, yeah.
So we're trying to figure out ultimately how to unify fundamental physics with consciousness
eventually, but maybe leading up to that, we're going to look at the fundamental forces
of nature.
So that's one of the things that I'm interested in.
We look into extradimensional geometry at quantum gravity research.
What is extradimensional geometry?
Okay, well, dimensions are really just numbers.
So if you look at space around us, there's a coordinate and it's just three numbers,
your XYZ position.
And then extra dimensions are just extra numbers.
So Einstein's relativity unified space and time.
So now we have this four dimensional space time.
And there the geometry was a little different because time is a little bit different than
space, but still you can look at it as an extra dimension.
But you can keep on going.
I mean, you can go to extra dimensions mathematically.
It's certainly well defined to talk about an arbitrary number of dimensions.
And so that's something that physicists have been exploring.
And what is quantum gravity?
So quantum gravity is basically trying to figure out what is the high energy theory
of gravity.
So we know that general relativity from Einstein is a pretty good theory of gravity that describes
a lot of things, especially at lower energies.
And when I say lower energies, I still mean very high energies for human terms, you know,
astrophysical processes.
And then there's this other theory of quantum mechanics, which typically describes how really
microscopic things work, say, at the atomic scale.
And we know that, you know, we don't really feel a gravitational force between you and
me.
It's really relevant for the planets because gravity is such a weak force.
So it's been a really challenge to figure out what experiments can we do that merge
the small and the big where we can actually measure something.
And so there are certain types of phenomena that you'd expect would come into play for
both the gravity aspects and the quantum aspects.
So there should be some theory of quantum gravity that can describe all scales.
All scales.
From the small to the large, from the atomic scale to the stars.
Okay.
So something that is basically the same, like relatively the same from each side, like
from the smallest possible atom to the size of a star.
Yeah, yeah.
Essentially.
An equation that fits both things.
Exactly.
That's what you're talking about.
Exactly.
We have quantum mechanics that are really good for figuring out how computers work.
And then we have astrophysics collecting all the data from how the planets rotate around
the stars, how there's galaxies, all of this.
Then we have general relativity for that.
But there's kind of issues.
You can treat general relativity and attempt to quantize it.
But for whatever reason, that has been challenging.
How old are you?
I am 33 years old.
33 years old.
What made you want to be a quantum physicist?
Well, let's see.
It started out, I mean, I always had a skill in mathematics.
And then I wasn't really that passionate about learning.
I ended up doing this summer minority program at MIT in high school.
And I just had a really good teacher who taught me wave mechanics in high school, which required
all these differential equations and advanced calculus.
And so I was just exposed to all this difficulty.
And I was just surprised to realize that while I wasn't a straight A student in high school,
when things got harder, I tended to not get that much worse.
So I guess I was just attracted to the complexity of physics eventually, just because it's typically
pretty complicated.
And I just realized I was a little kind of good at it.
And I started looking at the classes.
I wasn't sure if I wanted to be an engineer or go into computer science.
But I was just fascinated to learn about all these different physics things from quantum
mechanics, thermodynamics, general relativity, all these different things.
They just looked interesting to me.
So I figured, why not?
And you studied this at MIT for how long?
Four years of undergraduate.
Four years of undergraduate at MIT, and then you went to UCLA?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that was about six years.
Wow.
So about 10 years of study dedicated to that.
So was there what sort of outside influences were there for you to get into this?
Why were you so interested in it?
You were interested in the complexity of it and just the difficulty of solving some of
these problems or what?
Yeah.
So eventually I just thought, well, how can I help humanity as well?
And I just thought about, it just seems like the natural progression, I think really it's
all about trying to maximize our freedom.
And to me, I think good technology is meant to make us more free.
It can have negative aspects as well, like anything.
Nothing's purely good or purely bad.
But there's just a natural flow between science to engineering to technology.
And I think the goal is, how do we maximize our own free will?
And I think that science can help with that.
And so I was just trying to think about how can I help the world the most and what would
be enjoyable to me and how do I balance those things?
And I just thought, it seems like a good shot.
You know, it was something where I felt like I could get a job, yet I still, it was a balance
of being interesting, yet maybe I could find a job.
And so at your lab, what specific problems are you guys trying to solve?
Well right now, we're trying to figure out how to come up with simulations in a computer
that accurately model our world.
So we're trying to essentially reproduce on the computer with code, just try to figure
out if there's little games that we can make that have really simple rules that get close
to what we see in our reality.
Like, can you give me an example of that?
Well, I mean, for instance, you could consider particles, like particle scattering or something
like that.
So, I mean, the Large Hadron Collider, the LHC, that's one of the largest experiments.
I mean, they do proton-proton collisions.
And so that when the protons interact, they actually interact with the quantum vacuum,
which opens up to all of the particles in the universe actually.
So it's really bizarre.
This quantum vacuum has the potential of all of the other particles.
So when you do these high-energy collisions, it opens up different particles, and it allows
for different conversions, like you can have different particles turn into other particles
or certain particles might get created that are short-lived, and then decay, and then
we see what decays after that.
So one thing we're working to prepare towards is, okay, can we set up the simulations to
try to see, okay, if we're modeling a particle as this type of object with the geometry that
we have, is there a way that we can eventually hook it up and get those simulations to match
the experimental data?
How many people like you are looking at this kind of stuff and spending their time researching
this kind of stuff?
Well, quantum gravity in general?
Yeah.
Maybe like a thousand or so?
I mean, there's a lot of scientists in the world.
Didn't you say that when you were applying for graduate schools, you had a lot of trouble?
Yeah, it's a very competitive environment.
So first, there's kind of filters.
First, you get into undergrad, so you might get into a good school, you might get into
a worse school, the better school you get in, the higher chance you have of getting in
the next level, and then there's graduate school, and then you have to become a postdoc.
And so, you're not a professor yet, you're still making maybe a little bit better salary
than a graduate student, but not a great salary, you're late 20s or 30s at this point.
Maybe you're married, maybe you're not, and you have to become a postdoc.
That's usually like a two-year assignment, and you'll have to do a couple postdocs.
I was told that I had to go to Europe to get a job, to stay in academia, that's what my
advisor told me.
Really?
He said it's so competitive, and because UCLA, it's a good school, but it's not like
Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Princeton, he was like, chances are you getting a job at the
next level, you're probably going to have to go to Europe just to stay in the game.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, so it gets competitive, and then, I mean, I have a friend or a collaborator
and friend who, he's published like 150 papers, and he's still, he's had like five postdocs,
and he's probably 10 years older than me, and he's still trying to figure out how to
get a professor, and he's published with some of the top experts in his field, and has more
papers published than some professors, but things are just getting so advanced.
There's so many subfields within subfields that, honestly, we can't keep track of all
the progress that's happening, which really excites me, actually.
That seems like, it seems like it's a really, makes it confusing when there's so many different
subfields and so many different categories where people aren't sort of like paying attention
to all of it.
It's all sort of like siloed or compartmentalized.
Yeah, so there's also interdisciplinary studies, so that does happen.
So obviously, you can imagine that a lot of, there's a lot of low hanging fruit when you
combine two different subfields and try to find the connection between them.
So that is getting more and more popular as time goes by, and even in going out of physics
even so, there's like biophysics or, you know, even chemistry uses a lot of physics.
So, especially when you get into quantum chemistry.
So that's, yeah, at the end of the day, all of chemistry relates to atoms and molecules,
and that gets down to quantum mechanics to really describe what is happening.
It's more or less described by quantum mechanics.
And quantum mechanics, correct or wrong, quantum mechanics is basically like a flower.
That's quantum mechanics, right?
Maybe that's one way.
That's how Michikaku described it.
That's how basically I understand it.
He's like, flowers and plants is like, those things are all quantum mechanical.
Okay, sure.
I mean, I wouldn't describe quantum mechanics as a flower, but yeah, he can get a little
poetic at times.
So how would you describe it, like in its most basic form?
Well, it's actually embracing this notion of probability and possibility.
So in classical physics, we think of kind of this static reality, like you and me, we're
definitely here 100%.
And the system might evolve over time, but it's always well-defined.
And quantum mechanics allows for this bizarre thing called superposition.
And so you can be in a superposition of two different states or an infinite number of
states.
And so you can have in a single moment, multiple states coexisting at the same time.
And so that's why you have things like the Schrodinger cat paradox, where you put a cat
in a box and you, let's say you have some poison that's connected to a timer and you
don't know when the timer is going to go off and release the poison.
The quantum theory predicts that the cat could be 50% alive or dead.
There could be a probability, but we're not sure if quantum mechanics is actually stating
the true state of reality, or if it's just a tool to model reality based on the information
we have.
So you can imagine there's this cat in this box.
You don't know.
Let's say there's a 50% chance that the poison gets released in an hour and you wait an hour.
And your mind is the cat alive or dead.
You don't know.
You haven't opened the box to look, assuming you can't hear if it's meowing.
So logically, if you know how that poison is released, I mean just from a logical perspective,
you could say that you could just create a tool and say, what's my best chances of getting
this right?
It's 50% of the time, he's probably the cat's alive, 50% dead.
So the cat could just actually be alive or dead in reality inside that box, but it could
just be this mathematical tool that helps us evaluate how to assess different probabilities.
That's one way to look at it.
Other people are saying, well, maybe quantum mechanics is the final theory.
Maybe reality is actually like this.
Maybe the cat literally is alive and dead at the same time.
So that's when it gets into all these paradoxical things and people are like, oh, quantum mechanics
makes no sense.
I tend to just look at it as a tool.
This is always improving, so I'm not going to assume that quantum mechanics is the final
theory.
I have no idea what reality is actually like, but it seems that for the experiments we do,
quantum mechanics does a good job of describing those experiments, such as a flower, maybe.
But then again, no one's actually calculating the exact solution of how a flower operates
in quantum mechanics.
It's way too complicated.
So really, you'll learn things just hydrogen atom, like one electron going on a single
proton.
And even using quantum mechanics to accurately describe large atoms is very challenging,
so then eventually you have approximation methods.
So we have this theory that can describe how things work, but reality is so complex we
can never find all of the exact solutions to these theories.
So at that point, yes, we could say quantum mechanics is describing a flower, but it's
actually not that useful for us to describe a flower because it's to actually solve how
a flower works in the theory of quantum mechanics is way too complicated to do it exactly.
But it's still a framework and it is influencing how we perceive the world.
And I think it is a step in the right direction, but maybe it's not the final theory.
How much internal strife is there in science and academia with people that are developing
theories or analyzing new theories and people that are stuck to them and think, I got it.
I got the silver bullet.
Yeah.
I would say it's very much just like human culture.
We like to think that science is separate.
Just like it goes in competition.
At the end of the day, there's always politics.
There's always humans involved.
Yeah.
However, when you compare academia to the business world, one difference is in business,
everyone agrees that you care about making money, right?
So you can kind of put your ego aside a little bit more in business because you might do
a business deal, you're compromising, okay, you don't like how that partner is making
you feel, but he's giving you some money and that's okay.
Like that's your end goal.
Now with the science, it's like the currency, the money are the ideas themselves, right?
Because your reputation is all about the work you put out.
If you become a professor and you have tenure, you have job security for the rest of your
life, so you're not worried about ... I mean, there's still politics involved because you
want to get money so you can get graduate students and all of that, but your ego of
your own work is definitely more involved.
So that it does make it a little, especially now because everyone's after trying to figure
out what is this final theory of everything and then it's basically everyone's trying
to say who's going to be the next Einstein, right?
And so that puts a lot of pressure on the entire community and then it turns into this
thing where a lot of scientists are so humble that they won't even go and try extremely
ambitious things because it's like, how can I be better than Einstein?
He was a genius, right?
So the types of people that end up looking into the most advanced stuff, you end up getting
a lot of these oddball characters, right?
Because you have to go against the grain to some degree to be ambitious enough to really
dive into the most difficult problems, but at the same time, I should just say there's
also just tons of scientists out there who are doing the right thing and are hard workers
and are doing a great job and are making progress and are very helpful.
Well, I mean, you should have ambition in this kind of stuff, right?
You got to sort of like inspire competition, I think.
I think it's healthy to like create innovation.
And I think that was one of the things that DARPA did when I was reading that book.
I was telling you about that DARPA book by Annie Jacobson.
She was saying that they basically hired two different labs, instead of hiring only one
lab specifically, they hired two so they would have to compete against each other to make
better shit.
And that was interesting because that's a great example of science being mixed with
business specifically for profit or for financial gain in the military specifically.
And I think a lot of, correct me if I'm wrong, but a lot of people that are in this field
of study, whether it be physics or whatever, a lot of them just get complacent when they
get tenure and they become professors and they just have this job for life and they
don't have to worry about a paycheck, they don't have to worry about money, they just
kind of like show up and do what they have to do.
Yeah, I would say most professors are doing the right thing and are trying their best.
They feel a sense of responsibility but obviously they're humans at the end of the day so there's
a spectrum and it depends on the university as well.
I would say at the top universities to get at that level, I mean everyone's looking at
you so they're going to be top performing all the time 100% and it depends too.
There's also when you're a professor there's teaching and then there's the research and
so some professors, they care only about the research so they might neglect the teaching
a little bit more.
That's kind of a common trend and then yeah so everyone's a little different but I would
say for the most part it's not like a huge problem.
I wouldn't try to advertise that there's too many professors being lazy but I think
it is a curious model in today's world where it is a little bizarre where you have this
job where essentially it's a high risk opportunity to either become a professor or fail.
You either make it or you don't and so it's this weird dichotomy of you either get a job
for life or you're on the streets and it's a little strange because there are a lot of
really smart people who just barely don't make that cut and then go into industry and
it is bizarre because a lot of people who stay in academia don't, in my opinion I feel
like a lot of them are just trying to figure out what do I want to get as a job and they're
like I don't know but I'm good at school so I'll just stay in school and they get stuck
there so they're actually very conservative but it's pretty risky to try to become a professor.
Even when I was at MIT I had an advisor that told me do not try to become a professor because
it's like trying to go to the MBA.
Really?
It's more or less that competitive.
Maybe not that competitive but it's definitely close to that in terms of getting a top job
at a university.
Does the professor make good money?
Yeah they make good money.
I mean not, it depends as well, it depends how you're getting grant money as well but
I mean there's a base salary usually a lot of, well if it's a public university the salaries
might be public.
You can make $150,000 to $250,000 a year maybe even a little more if you're like really at
the top of your field.
Right.
One of the things that Eric Weinstein was talking about recently was that he was talking
about this crazy stagnation that's been going on in physics for the last, what is it, like
34 years?
Right.
Since like the hydron collider, they started colliding particles and then like nothing's
really been done since.
I think that's a gross oversimplification of the situation.
I would like to ask Eric Weinstein, I mean how many papers has he read in the past 10
years?
If he's saying there's been no progress then clearly he must be reading papers to come
to that decision otherwise he's just saying that, right?
There's so many scientific papers that are being put out, 100 years ago there might have
only been a few physicists in the US, maybe 150 years, there was literally only a couple
physicists in the US that were top quality 150 years ago and now there's how many, hundreds
thousands and the number of papers that are coming out is just exploding.
It's happening way too fast, nobody knows how to keep up with it.
Now you can have a paper that gets 10,000 citations if you're top in your field and
so imagine if you publish a paper it gets 10,000 citations.
Now it's your job as a scientist to follow up the first step of research is doing the
research, looking into what people have done in the past and building on that.
If you have to read 10,000 papers, that's just building off one idea, how are you going
to keep track of all the progress that's happening and so once you get overwhelmed by all this
data it's kind of like saying, oh there's hundreds of thousands of papers coming out
but all of them are useless.
That's essentially what he's saying, right?
I just don't believe that.
I think there's a lot of progress that is occurring even in the differential geometry,
in the mathematics that he's talking about that he says is useful for anti-gravity.
Just in the past five years the number of papers talking about the topics that he's
like what's happened to the stuff in the 1950s?
Has he been reading what's on the internet because it's been exploding in the past decade?
There's so much research.
How so?
Specifically talking about anti-gravity, like with Lewis Whitton and Ed Whitton, right?
Yeah, so at the end of the day what that was all about, I mean I haven't looked into it
in great detail but there were some people who wanted to fund anti-gravity and they got
top scientists to start looking into it and so they started playing with all of this advanced
differential geometry, this advanced mathematics that goes beyond Einstein's mathematics.
But even Einstein himself after he came out with general relativity in 1915, he still
explored a lot of other ideas including some of these exotic forms of differential geometry
such as torsion.
People have looked into these but Einstein is remembered for his 1915 theory and then
he tried unification and everyone says that didn't work.
So Einstein's failed unified field theory didn't pan out but the experts in that field were
still looking at this geometry and so that brings us up to the 1950s.
General relativity came out in 1915 using the mathematics it had.
Some additional mathematics was developed in the 1920s that's relevant for new theories
of gravity and the community is trying to figure out the problem is there's too many
good theories to explore.
That's the real problem is there's literally an infinite number of theories that limit
to general relativity at the low energy and we're trying to figure out which one is the
right one and so there's a lack of consensus on what is good so everyone just goes back
to general relativity because we know that works and so Eric Weinstein is saying hey
look what happened in the 1950s that everyone's just doing general relativity now what about
all this exotic mathematics all this exotic space time effects that you can have is that
relevant and literally I looked at the number of papers for it's not antigrap not all the
papers I'm talking about are specifically for applications to antigravity but they're
discussing the mathematics before you get to the technology you have to get to the engineering
and before the engineering you have to get to the science and a lot of times the science
and physics the mathematics comes first so we had the mathematics and now we're in that
process of doing the science and it takes time.
How many papers are out there right now on this kind of stuff on this antigravity?
Well antigravity I don't know maybe dozens to hundreds but for have you looked at any
one?
How do you what's your process of like looking at one of these papers like what do you have
to do where do you go what do you do and they take how long they take to read?
Yeah well at this point in my career I typically always try to skim papers I tend to not read
the words very much and I try to just focus on the mathematics so I'll open look at the
title look at the abstract and then just skim through the paper and try to see if there's
equations that I've seen before and then I try to see where they go from there and so
that's typically my process.
I would say within this the exotic differential geometry like torsion and non-matrices weird
terms there's maybe ten years ago there there'd be ten papers a year let's say but it's kind
of exploding now there's like a hundred two hundred I forget the exact numbers but it's
going up a curve it's exploding right now.
Is this because of like the recent explosion in UFOs and aliens like the interest in it?
I'm not sure.
Do you think there's like an explosion of like new young people in college studying wanting
to study physics and stuff like this?
I think everything is just expanding I mean our capability of making progress is expanding
so I think it's just everything all happening at once and it's hard to figure out what's
causing what but they're all happening concurrently so in my opinion I don't think it's literally
anti-gravity that's driving some of this progress I think it's just due it's it's ready to like
the time is now to look at to explore these ideas I mean things have been somewhat stagnated
to some degree you could say but it's also because we've run out of experiments to try
to so it's not the theory basically we have too many theories to choose between and not
enough experiments to confirm which is right and someone like Eric Weinstein is blaming
all the theorists saying no one's everyone got stuck and it's like no everyone's not
stuck there's hundreds of ideas that we're exploring and yeah it's difficult to figure
out how to experimentally test these different theories because what we already have is already
so successful and so it's it is a challenge and there has been some slight stagnation
but as time goes on people are just exploring more and more ideas so the more exotic ideas
over time just start to get explored more and it's the type of thing where I've even
found papers where a paper came out in the about ten years ago I noticed it didn't cite
the original source of this theory that they were talking about and I had that paper and
then I looked back and it was from the 1960s and then very recently even a year ago I'd
looked at this paper about three years ago about a year ago I found a letter to Einstein
in the 1920s showing how Einstein's unified theory was just a theory of gravity and so
what's happened is the the the mainstream physicists even the experts in the community
haven't realized this only the pure gravity experts a few of them have figured this out
where Einstein had this attempted unified field theory it turned out to not quite have
electromagnetism but was actually a good theory of gravity and nobody seems to be paying
attention to that well until maybe ten years ago it's been starting to explore more well
it got explored in the seventies a bit and then it kind of died down and then another
version of so that used torsion Einstein use torsion so what is torsion it's the torquing
of space time it's the working of space time so general relativity has energy and momentum
that sources gravitation which is curvature so like a sphere is curved but it's not twisted
right right so Ellie Carton a mathematician eventually invented he was studying physics
theories as a mathematician realized wait a second from the old mathematics from the
eighteen hundreds there should be something to twist space time as well he introduced
this space time torsion and then this this other guy vile introduced non-matricity which
is even more exotic that's even crazier than torsion but it's like torsion is already so
crazy that no one even hears about non-matricity because that's even more out there and so
these these are the types of non-Riemannian geometry that Eric Weinstein was talking
about and you can see in his theory he actually kind of is inspired by trying to make sense
of some of those things but I don't think he fully has studied all of the work that
has come out in the past thirty years which helps clarify much quickly how to get into
exploring this these topics okay is this an this is an example of what torsion looks like
yeah I mean torsion is is somewhat of a general term as well so it gets used in other applications
as well so that's why I like to use the term space time torsion just to run out but yeah
exactly space torsion so you can imagine imagine that rod or bar was space time in some sense
and so the idea was that maybe spin should source torsion that was the idea right like
if you have matter that's rotating shouldn't it sort of drag or twist space time with it
in some way that was that was Carton's motivation and he wasn't even interested in quantum mechanics
he was just interested in spin angular momentum you know planets can spin but it turns out
that quantum theory really a big part of it is about quantum spin and so it turns out
that that quantum spin is needed to source torsion so the electron it's it's just kind
of a fact if you want to go into how to look into studying the electron in curved space
time and do it in the standard way it requires torsion but nobody likes to admit that in
academia for the most part and so all of the no one is just trying to study quantizing
that theory with torsion called Einstein carton theory I've looked I've done the research
because I wanted to do this myself in graduate school I want I realized that this should
be computed to see if it's a good if it's how it does for quantum gravity it's it's
the most reasonable thing to do it's the most conservative thing to do it makes mathematically
if you forget all the stigma of human culture and you just look at the math it's obvious
that this thing to try but my advisor didn't let me work on it he thought it was too risky
how would you try it it would involve calculations so this would be trying to calculate the scattering
of electrons with gravitons the force carrier of gravity and trying to see so the problem
with gravity waves gravitational waves yes okay yep okay right so grab gravitons are
the particle aspect of gravitational waves and so some people get tripped up on this
and they say oh well we know gravitational waves exist but gravitons that's we've never
measured that that's crazy right okay but if you think about light light is an electromagnetic
wave but it's also a particle the photon really there's the photon field that has particle
like and wave like aspects and so both I will admit that I'm coming at this from a quantum
field theory perspective okay and I'm saying that if you just think about what the photon
is and you think about gravity this this is the interpretation I mean the gravitational field
is it contains gravitons and gravitational waves just as the photon field can contain photons as
particles and electromagnetic waves okay so it's really not that ridiculous to imagine
gravitons and I actually in my thesis I computed how to use Feynman diagrams which are these diagrams
that get used in quantum field theory but I use them to calculate general relativity results
and so this is kind of a thing that physicists are figuring out how to do better and better they're
actually figuring out how to use the mathematics developed for the large hadron collider which is
colliding protons and we kind of spent all our money you know we we we put it up as high energy
as we can we got all the tax dollars we could and we found everything we could we found exactly what
we thought we would find and now we're moving on to LIGO which is this gravitational wave detector
now we're instead of LIGO yeah yeah that's that's the world's largest gravitational wave detector
they actually have two or three different locations around the globe and they get signals from from
this this from that outer space and they they correlate the signals across the entire earth
to identify they triangulate the single signal to figure out if if because the the experiments
are so sensitive that if you have an earthquake nearby in one of these experiments it sets off
the detectors or even just like a car driving by so they have to they have to set up this yeah
that's that's one of the detectors so it's set up with that geometry to pick up on polarization
basically the spin of the graviton or the the polarization of the gravitational waves
is related to the design of this experiment itself that's why it has that L shape and so that's a
an interferometer and so they're bouncing light around on mirrors and the mirrors are sensitive
down to 10 to the minus 18 meters which is some of the most sensitive measurements in the world so
if those mirrors move by the tiniest fraction of a fraction of a fraction of an inch it sets off
a signal so this looks like two giant chopsticks crossing each other with mirrors inside them that
are bouncing light beams exactly into the center so what happens is you you send out you have a
laser and the laser goes through a beam splitter so you have the same type of like any split going
down two directions and it's bouncing off the end and coming back and so the two lengths the two
arms are exactly the same length and so it's trying to measure do the photons come back at
exactly the same time or is there a gravitational wave that came through and messed it up so if
they're coming in they're they're going out into the two arms at the same time and coming back if
there's no gravitational waves they're going to come back reflect off the end four and they're
going back at the same exact time and so the detector is so you see how the detector is kind of
flanking the laser right because after it bounces off the test mass at the end of the the arm it comes
back and it gets merged together and goes into the detector to see if the two photons came back at
the same time or if there was a slight time delay if there's a time delay then they're they're implying
that there must have been some spacetime curvature that that caused length to get deformed so it
actually had to travel a larger distance on one of the arms than the other so what are what are
they finding with their tests they've already found to their surprise they found signals way
before they're expecting part of the reason was because there's signals before they were expecting
yeah because we can't control when signals come in like the the lhc we control the protons those
are what's colliding lago is using they're using stars in the universe as their protons
so they're looking they're waiting for some random event in the sky to happen where two black holes
just collide and it's one of the most energetic processes in the entire universe it's so chaotic
the the explosion that went off that they detected it's so crazy how big of an explosion was if you
were a solar system nearby you would have been obliterated absolutely obliterated so they're
they're just we got lucky there happened to be this huge explosion of two black holes colliding
and now they've measured other stars as well there's neutron stars this how do they detect this
so the idea is that how far away are these black holes that are exploding into each other
sorry to interrupt but this episode of the podcast is brought to you by
verso we all know how important it is to get the right amount of nutrition exercise and
sleep as we age it's something i'm really passionate about and have discussed at length
with doctors and nutritional scientists on this podcast that is why i use verso verso is a company
dedicated into translating scientific breakthroughs into products that hold the potential to increase
longevity i take cell being every day to help combat aging by increasing my nad levels with
powerful ingredients such as nmn transversed varitrol and tmg nad plus is arguably one of the
most powerful molecules in the body but declines with age keeping nad plus levels high helps guide
longevity genes called sirtuins sirtuins are called longevity genes because by activating
them they support overall health and slow down aging related effects by regulating important
processes inside of cells high nad plus levels can improve your metabolism repair damage dna
and ramp up energy production in your brain immune system and muscles now you can't take nad plus as
a supplement because it's too big for the cells to absorb but nmn directly converts to nad plus
while resveratrol activates your sirtuins which increases their attraction for nad
these two molecules act synergistically and increase your nad plus more than just nmn on its
own verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to absolutely guarantee
you're getting what you pay for head on over to ver dot s o and use the coupon code concrete at
checkout to save 15 off your entire order or go to ver dot s o forward slash k on cret right now
it's linked below now back to the show right so they're very far away you know in other galaxy
you know there are other solar systems other galaxies and basically the idea is that by the
time the gravity get the gravitational waves get to us it's very weak it's very faint and that's
why it's so hard to detect because they're so far away you have it exactly right so the basic idea
is there's a trade-off right do we make gravitational waves in a lab and then
but it gravitational waves are kind of like light if you turn on a light bulb
the further away you get from the light source the less light you see because it's going everywhere
right so it doesn't make sense to put a light bulb in the other room right and light your room
same thing here so you could say right it might be a smart thing to say well can i make it in a
laboratory and just create the gravitational waves and then detect them immediately it actually
turns out some people tried that but there was some controversy wasn't clear if it was detected
or not i believe in the 1970s perhaps and so now people have realized that well if we get lucky
enough for the right explosion to happen out in the universe then we can actually detect the
gravitational waves so the the gravitational waves near the source where the collision happens
they're very chaotic very difficult to predict that we don't it's it's a high energy process
and it's very complicated and so but by the time the gravitational waves get to us it's so
it's so faint it actually makes it easier to try to understand because you can use the low energy
theory because by the time the gravitational waves get to us it's not it's not too chaotic right
so we have a better handle on how to detect that it's much more established there's a very solid
consensus on how we should detect that haven't they been trying to make or haven't they successfully
made a black hole in a laboratory um i heard that i'm not aware of that there was speculation that
maybe proton collisions could lead to the creation of a black hole but that was a little bit of a
speculative idea that gets caught in the press and gets hyped up a little bit can you try to find
that steven black hole made in the lab i i swear i saw that somewhere oh it disappears real quick
yeah i'm yeah i mean there could have there could have been some experiment too but
a simul oh that one okay that one research is the university of amsterdam were able to create a
simulated black hole in a lab in a paper published by the journal physical review uh research the
scientists claim that they were able to create a chain of atoms electrons skipped along the
chain creating a short a sort of wave so if i remember correctly that might have been this
experiment where they did they also do something in a quantum computer was that the same one i'm
thinking of i know there was some experiment where yeah it was it was like an analogy so that
there's there's different analogies in these different theories so i know there maybe this
is different than the one i'm thinking of but i know there was one experiment where they
kind of simulated a black hole in a quantum computer in a way and uh-huh so people i mean
people thought it was support for the idea that the mathematics of quantum gravity makes sense
but it's it's a little there's like this analogy that's happening there so it depends on
assuming that analogy is right um but yeah i don't have to look more into the details for this one
okay then oh yeah in the netherlands there that's the one i saw create a grow a lab grown
black hole in the netherlands okay okay that maybe that one's a little different then that's
interesting zoom in on that highlighted stuff on that highlighted part using using a single
file chain of atoms to simulate an event horizon mertens allowed electrons to skip from one position
to the next this cost certain properties of the element of vanish creating an event horizon that
changed the wave-like nature of the surrounding electrons what does that mean well it's hard to
tell right because they're saying it simulated an event horizon which to me means was it a real
event horizon it's hard to tell what does that even mean and also there's a theory that all of
the fundamental particles could be black holes we don't even know wait what some people have you
know some people frank will check have uh who's a noble laureate have said that elementary particles
such as an electron could be an extremal black hole a black hole that's kind of at its limit
and so that's an idea that we're not sure yet there that has been studied in string theory a lot
as well but we're still trying to figure out how to connect string theory to the real world
but so in some sense it might turn out that once we have a unified field theory the notion of creating
a black hole could be a trivial thing because a black hole is just a massive particle really
it's a point source of mass at the end of the day it creates an event horizon i mean even the sun
the if you're really far away from the sun mathematically there's the first approximation
is just to pretend the sun is a black hole because it's it's a point object right when you're really
far away you don't care about the size of the sun you might as well just pretend it's a black hole
if you're far enough away okay it's just a mathematical approximation that does the trick
really well so when you think about what are particles right what's the difference between
the sun when you zoom out and the sun just turns into a dot right how is that different than an
electron we don't know yet if we're still trying to figure out right how an electron should work
in quantum gravity and so one possible solution is to say well maybe electrons are actually black
holes but stable black holes so but now every what's more established what's hot in the community is
to say well we know that black holes can radiate hawking radiation there's there's more and more
evidence suggesting that this is possible so it suggests that black holes are in some sense when
especially when they're really large they're unstable they slowly radio radiate energy away
and eventually become smaller so we don't understand exactly those different theories there's you
know a lot of work actually exploring this and I haven't even looked into all of the literature
because as I was mentioning there's so many papers but some people are saying eventually
everything will just hawking radiate away and the whole black hole would disappear
other people are saying well no eventually it's going to reach this limit where it can't radiate
anymore and it could become a stable particle so that's that's something that's still I would say
up for debate going back to to string theory what is the what basically is the debate between
scientists with string theory like what's going on with string theory why why did Weinstein call
Michikaku crazy and out of his out of his mind well okay so I would say that there has been some
political issues I would say string theorists are very bad at PR they're they're scientists not
marketers and also just the way that the culture works on academics got comfortable with getting
support from the government after world war two and so they they got comfortable to not explaining
their ideas to the public because they're getting funding because they're saying hey look if we
research this we got to stop Russia we got to stay on top of Russia that that whole mentality
in academia is dying off so now when you get it is well to some degree I mean it's not the cold war
anymore I mean yeah okay things have been heightened to some degree but I don't know to me I wasn't
alive then but I feel like the tension after world war two is a little heightened I would say oh yeah
for sure and so now we're at this point where people are asking for money in the same ways
that they used to in the 70s and it's getting a little bit harder and you know they they lost
their skills at communicating I mean scientists aren't always the best communicators but okay let's
dive into the details a little more so string theory at first was in the 70s was just an attempt
to describe the strong force which relates to the the proton-proton collisions you get a lot of the
forces involved there are the strong force okay and so they were trying to figure out what happened
there and they realized that the math kind of got simpler when you look at high energy processes
and notice that key the math got simpler at high energy yeah yeah and that's true in general
and so what they realized is in when you look at this high energy physics it actually looks like
the the force carrier of the strong force might actually be a string an extended object rather
than a particle okay and so that was the idea and they ran with it but they started studying
this theory more and then they realized it was a theory of quantum gravity so that got exciting
but then it kind of hit some other roadblocks eventually they started to realize that it seemed
to solve problems that other theories ran into but there's a debate over that uh it's some some
people it's a very small community a very small minority thinks that that result maybe not be as
important but anyways basically what happens is the string theorists find successful successful
things that make the theory look like it might be a good theory but there's no concrete experimental
evidence and so one of these things that was predicted was extra particles and so but part
of the problem is they haven't explored all the ways to use the math and so and so they developed
one theory the minimally symmetric super symmetric standard model okay and that predicted some extra
particles they didn't know the mass of the particle and they wanted grant money so they
they said hey maybe the LHC can detect these particles but there was actually no reason
to ever suspect that the LHC could detect those particles they just they had no idea with them
and it seemed like the mass of these particles had to be really high and Einstein said equals
mc squared so high mass means high energy right and so as I was mentioning this high energy theory
that's where things um that's that's the unknown we don't know what's going on there right and so
we know the string theorists were saying they think that these particles should exist but they
have no idea what I mean it could be way higher but they said hey maybe it's really low energy even
though there was kind of argument suggesting it shouldn't be found at low energies and they ran
with it anyways and the entire community didn't like a lot of the experts in the field latched onto
it and believed the story to get the grant money and it didn't work the the LHC never detected
anything else but there was never actually any good reason to expect in the first place so then
a lot of people say oh that proves string theory is wrong because you know it's and so they could
always say well these particles come in at higher and higher energy so people claim it's
unfalsifiable and a lot of string theorists also aren't sure if it's falsifiable or not I think it
actually is falsifiable for other reasons but um you know and I want to stress that I'm not I don't
see myself as a string theorist either I didn't want to study string theory in grad school because
I didn't like the state of the community so I'm not I'm not saying this as someone in from the
inside so to speak I I looked at myself as an outsider of the string theory community I cared
more about quantum field theory my whole thing was gravity can be treated as a quantum field theory
and the string theorists are basically saying no quantum field theory doesn't work for gravity
but it turns out even to get good string theory which is some of the work that Michiu Kaku did
was for string field theory which is quantum field theory of strings so it it's from my perspective
string theory is kind of ripping off quantum field theory because at the end of the day string
theory is just another quantum field theory and so they're trying to portray it as this
different final theory when really we know quantum field theory works well for the LHC
all the particle collisions and so there's kind of this dilemma right this marketing campaign issue
where people are labeling it's to me it's all the same stuff but some theories have supersymmetry
some theories don't and then the ones with supersymmetry often get looped in the string
theory which is just some weird symmetry it's just some weird mathematics that they like that gets
around some no go theorem and so Eric Weinstein is basically saying can't we just ignore all the
no go theorems and and play around with ideas and I mean in some regards that's a little disrespectful
to previous work right if someone puts out a paper and says this this whole direction doesn't work
for some reasons I mean typically if you want to publish something else you have to describe
if you come up with a new answer that's fine as long as you can describe why that no go doesn't
apply to your work but Eric Weinstein is saying let's just ignore all these no go theorems let's
just carry on anyways and just disregard what other scientists are saying what is a no go again
okay yeah so this happens a lot where they'll come up with some like math theorem that says you can't
do this it's a no go okay and so it's a little problematic because a lot of times there's kind
of baked in assumptions that don't get articulated really what usually happens is the paper is written
really well and the assumptions are stated very clearly and so they'll say assuming a b and c
d isn't possible but then culturally people read the papers and they start to forget about the
assumptions and they start to get a little dogmatic with it I've seen this happen in string theory where
you know I have some work that got around some of the no go theorems and I can't even it's difficult
for me to share my work with the string theorist because they won't even look at it because they're
oh well there's this no go theorem that I heard about that I haven't even looked into because
there's so many papers so I don't know how to I feel uncomfortable so I'm not even going to touch it
right so that's pretty common where really everyone's overloaded with work and trying to identify
what's something concrete that they can actually understand and make progress with and so that's
why I don't get too mad at people for suppressing where it's not suppression it's just that everyone
has a you know a finite attention span and is trying to focus on what they can grasp and so if
you haven't studied this no go theorem in detail you're not and someone is presenting a new idea
that claims to get around the no go theorem but is different you have to evaluate well did they
actually get around that no go theorem yes or no which means you have to read that paper
and sometimes they they can get pretty technical and some people don't want to spend their time
doing those things so they'd prefer studying something that they understand better I mean
one time my advisor told me why do poets write poetry I was trying to say well if we're high
energy theorists shouldn't and there's this energy crisis shouldn't we eventually try to figure out
how to use high energy theory to solve energy crises that humanity is facing and I got a resounding no
that's not the idea right and it I was doing a little bit of play of words there because
high energy theory isn't high energy in the same sense of what humans might mean but still like
at the end of the day people have the freedom to choose to look into whatever they want and we
have to respect that freedom and to me it's all about maximizing our potential for freedom so
and that's what Eric's talking about well yeah I mean so basically saying there needs to be more
this quote unquote blue sky research he wants more adventurous research which I mean I think you
can make the case for it could be helpful but I mean there's also people that do that I mean
so it's a balance and yeah so it's all about where's that balance so you know how many people
do you have chased after the conventional ideas and how many people you have chasing the unconventional
which is what you guys are sort of doing at your lab right you guys are chasing the unconventional
stuff yeah I would say that we we are willing to look into arcane topics and we're thinking about
consciousness I mean some physicists don't even think about consciousness at all and think it's
almost you know you shouldn't even do that you shouldn't even bring consciousness into physics
because we kind of need to figure out physics first or maybe from a materialist point of view
it's all it's all just physics anyways maybe consciousness isn't a thing and it's just emergent
from matter but we do take a quantum gravity research we do take more panpsychist view where
we try to think of consciousness as this substrate of reality where matter emerges out of so
it's it's just a different perspective to take but yeah so we're open-minded towards
things like that so what do you think consciousness is well you know the problem is you can come up
with different definitions and that's the real problem what most people think of as consciousness
isn't very precise it's a vague collection of all these things even a word in a dictionary right
it's it's all defined in a circular way because you define a word in terms of other words which are
defined in terms of those words and so it turns into a semantic nightmare sometimes I just think
of consciousness as abstract information but the more conventional definition relates to this notion
of experience or qualia or having this notion of like feeling like you're you know feeling an
experience rather than just raw data being processed but I think of consciousness personally I think
of it as data that you take in from the external world and you modify that data in a way that
isn't based on external data so it's like light comes into your eyes and it might be photons at
a certain frequency but then we have this experience of redness right and that's often
associated with qualia people might have an emotional response to color those emotional
responses aren't based on the external world those are based on our internal memories right
so I think of it as data conversion so it's it's like you're converting from one basis to another
and when the basis you're converting to is constructed from your own internal
like neural network that you've created to me that might be consciousness because it's you're
using your freedom to decide how to interpret the data which is a unique experience in my opinion
that's just how I look at it right and who is the guy who started this research company that
you're working for yeah clear erwin started this uh nonprofit as a uh a philanthropic
clea erwin clea erwin k l ee right erwin with an i and so yeah he basically was this entrepreneur
who was a materialist and then he had this son who had psychic abilities and could remote view
and that blew his worldview it just shocked him he didn't know how to think about it
it made him think deeply well what is reality how do you discover that your son has psychic
abilities you know i don't know exactly how he first noticed it but i've just heard some of the
stories of some of the things he did where he would start testing his son like he would put his
banana he would take a banana and then like hide it somewhere in his house and then ask his son be
be like where is the banana and his son would just tell him and there was a few other little
things that he told you this that's what he told me wow yeah i mean oh is this him yeah exactly
so he based on his own son's experiences he started believing in remote viewing
and then he started thinking about well how does how does that even possible if if i'm a
materialist and so he eventually started asking more questions well like what are the experts
saying what are the scientists saying and he started to realize we don't understand as much as
maybe he thought we understand we have theories that can give you solutions but they don't always
explain why why is always a very difficult question to answer you can answer what or i mean why you
can say what might happen next but why it happened is a little deeper and so i think that question of
why kind of motivated him to start this institute where he decided well he was a successful
businessman so he decided that he wanted to help and give back to humanity and that's how he thought
he'd help the most at first he thought of looking into solar cells he wanted to help the world with
the energy crisis and the issue there and then he looked into it and he realized well you're there's
actually a big impact when you're making all the chips that go into the solar panels so
he stopped that business venture because he realized it wasn't helping the world as much as he thought
manufacturing the chips yeah uh there's silicon that goes in the the solar panels so i mean once
the solar panel is built they're very efficient but and their low impact on the environment but
to create those solar panels in the first place i mean if you make a few of them it's fine but if
you're trying to make it for the entire planet eventually you're running into resources that
need to create those solar panels and that has an impact as well right on the environment so
um yeah he was just self motivated to try to figure out um how the world works really
and he's basically just dumping all this money into this with no expectation for any sort of
return on any investment he's just fascinated by this yeah for him his return on investment is
developing this theory so it's not exactly like we have full freedom to explore whatever we want
he's very mission critical he's not also he's also in the research process he's he's one of the
scientists now he's been co-authors on all the papers that we've been doing and so he's he's
helping out guide that process he sees it as almost like a Manhattan project where mission
critical we're trying to figure out what this theory of consciousness and information and
energy and how it all fits together most people aren't even attempting it because it's too taboo
what does he think he can solve i mean
everything to some degree i mean everything well i mean you could ask well how far will
we eventually get i mean maybe we'll just find some approximation that gets us closer to the
truth that's a possibility right i mean trying to describe how the world works always leads to
unexpected consequences we it's very hard to predict sometimes it's you can predict some
of the things that might might occur i mean electricity maybe i mean nicola nicola teslo
was a great example of someone who could see where the technology would go because he invented
alternating current and then he even had designs for crafts he he saw this vision of
transferring files through the air like wi-fi but he wanted to do it differently a little bit
differently but he had that vision to see where the technology would come from the science but
sometimes it's hard to predict what will come out you develop the theory and then a few decades
go by and we get surprised all the time um we talked about this a little bit yesterday but
we were talking about free energy do you explain what free energy is well okay so yeah speaking
of tesla he had this dream of somehow providing free energy to everyone yeah essentially he was
contracted to build some energy grid and he decided to do a side deal rather than building what he
was asked with the money he was given he wanted to give free energy to everyone and surprisingly
unsurprisingly the investors weren't very happy with that right they didn't get their return on
investment so tesla didn't finish that dream and no one really understood the science for how that
could be possible anyway so it's it's sort of a sort of a fringe thing uh where a lot of people
are obsessed with tesla and trying to read his patents and figure out and piece it together
and try to figure out can you make a free energy machine or a perpetual mobile
or something that you can just you just push a button and it just gives you free energy
automatically and so I started looking into some of these things just because I saw I was
originally not interested in free energy I was just interested in efficient uses of energy
which is fine and you know we're always making more efficient engines and I was curious to see
if quantum field theory would eventually help create new engines that's what I started looking
into so I thought about it as physics leads to engineering leads to technology and it's hard
to see how quantum field theory could lead to technology right now it's very difficult for
us to see it because it's so technical it's so advanced but I kind of made a bet that it will
one day lead there just as quantum mechanics did before we had computers before we had transistors
people were studying this new mathematics that seemed weird and I'm sure it was probably difficult
to see how quantum mechanics might be maybe okay you have electrons we already had electricity so
there's some intuition that quantum mechanics will help and but you know it helped technology a lot
so I just figured well can quantum field theory help technology and when you start when I started
looking into how that might work a lot of it was grounded on thinking about this quantum vacuum
which as I was mentioning is something that it's very subtle it gets excited
by all particles so it has access to the potential of all particles but they're not actualized in
some sense so there's this notion of physical particles and then virtual particles and the
virtual particles are sort of in the quantum vacuum and paul dirac who came up with the theory for
the electron who's a titan in physics said that the ether is this quantum vacuum the ether the
ether which originally was this goes back to greek philosophy it's it's this medium but around the
1800s people thought there was this electromagnetic ether this luminiferous ether that was the medium
for electromagnetic waves but when quantum mechanics came out well special relativity
kind of banished that ether and created a new new mechanics basically what happened over time is
spacetime essentially replaced the ether because maxwell's equations for electrodynamics ended up
inspiring einstein to create this new paradigm of mechanics and special relativity which then led to
general relativity as a theory of gravity and so that wasn't a quantum theory so einstein had no
ether in his way of thinking but then quantum field theory was building off of quantum mechanics
and seems to have this subtle vacuum this subtle medium and there's still debate on whether this
medium is real or not and also that's a problem because what what does it mean to be real it's
a semantical term so you can imagine there's tons of philosophical debates and confusion on
the physical nature of the quantum vacuum and so i was just trying to study this quantum vacuum and
try to understand its properties from a conventional sense of quantum field theory i kept looking into
it and i started finding all this free energy stuff the only stuff i could find were these
amateurs talking about free energy and it just i started just looking into it i felt like as a
scientist it was my job to not reject information i mean you have to do your best to choose the
information but you never know where you're going to get good ideas so i tried to be very open-minded
and just collect information and not just blindly believe it but just keep in my back pocket in case
it comes back later start collecting and i kept running into all these things like geopolitics
or anti-gravity i didn't care about any of that and i just kept looking into trying to understand
what this quantum vacuum was from the way i was looking at it and it always i always found these
people talking about the same topics and all of them sound crazy it's like oh free energy aliens UFOs
and it was hard to know what to think of it but eventually i started to piece together why this
is happening it's because the physics for free energy could be related to the physics of UFOs if
you believe that UFOs can be made right and now that's a lot different people have a different
mentality of in the past decade than maybe 10 20 years ago it it was kind of laughed at now
you have physicists going on record saying okay maybe there's something here no one seems to
be seriously looking into it but people are at the public level acknowledging that okay maybe
there's something going on yeah it was funny that Weinstein said that even he said that like when
it comes to those videos like those tic tac and the go fast videos of those ufo's that those navy
pilots recorded he said that even people like ed witton aren't even in striking distance of being
able to explain technology like this well there's a lot of bizarre things i don't understand where
people are saying they say he also said he thought he thought those videos were a smokescreen
yeah so we don't know the origin of all these crafts but a lot of people put out these claims
that it violates laws of physics advise laws for what what laws of physics are these ufo's
violating i i don't understand this concept i don't understand why michikaku might say something
like that um okay so it's going faster than the speed of sound but it's not going faster than the
speed of light we there's no problem there the real issue is ed witton isn't an engineer why would
ed witton know it's like would you go to ed witton to figure out how a tesla works the car you know
what i mean like a ufo is more complicated than a car so why would why would a theoretical physicist
who's an expert in mathematics have answers for how the engineering of a ufo it's just a weird question
for me maybe he was speaking specifically about anti-gravity yeah assuming that that's how those
things are moving is with anti-gravity yeah but we don't even know all we know is it's moving
right i mean okay so then people say well it's not propulsion source right okay but still we don't
we don't at the end of the day we don't know exactly what it's doing but that doesn't mean
that we don't know the physics behind it we just don't know what it is we don't know if it's old
physics or new physics so people are speculating that it must be new physics and maybe it is maybe
there is some stuff that's happening that could be related new physics but maybe maybe it's just
using electromagnetism in creative ways that we don't understand yet i don't know well it's defying
it may not be defying physics but it's defying like modern propulsion right yeah yeah right exactly
so this idea that oh humans can't make it yet in in 2023 so it must be violating laws of physics
well to me there's a large gap there right yeah absolutely what do you what is your opinion on
those things what do you think they could be are you interested in that at all or i mean mildly i
guess uh i just kind of keep an eye on it i don't look into it too obsessively but i don't know what
to think exactly um i i think it's possible that the private sector has more advanced technology
than most even maybe in academia realize i think it's a little curious that a lot of these
sightings of specific types of craft seem to happen around military bases so i don't know if
that's implying that it's coming from military or if these extraterrestrials are interested in
military bases it could be both i don't i don't really know but i think it's to me it seems it
seems reasonable to think that some of these things in the sky could actually be man-made but
maybe there's other stuff in the sky that isn't man-made too i i i don't think that there's
necessarily one answer for everything obviously a lot of these sightings in the public are fake
you know like people will see things in the sky all the time and say oh that must be a UFO
right right a lot of those are probably fake but maybe some of them are something
do you think it's possible that they are from another dimension
i mean it's possible but yeah it's possible but it's hard to i would say in terms of
what does your guy your guy think okay yeah so clea erwin has an interesting idea where he
thinks they're actually our descendants coming back from the future to kind of they're not interacting
directly to try to just give us little hints to try to get our get our crap together you know we
need to evolve we need to get more serious think more than ourselves we as humans we think we're
the king of the jungle of planet earth we're at the top of the food chain but what if there's
something bigger right we need to kind of grow up a little bit to get ready to potentially be a part
of a bigger community right and if that occurs we might need to mature a little bit i think it's
interesting the fun the whole phenomena is so interesting because i'm super interested in
how similar it is to religion because this phenomenon is it finds a way to stay on on the
on the fine line it dances a fine line between giving just enough proof for people who are willing
to believe and want to believe it but not enough for people who require actual evidence to believe
it and in that aspect it's kind of religious it is strange to me that's also bizarre too which
makes me wonder maybe i don't know something intentional seems to be done by someone right
they're not it's like they're landing on planet earth exactly they're purposely yes right so what's
going on there i don't know if there's some other agenda to try to change the the perception of
humanity as well he we don't know what's happening exactly you know maybe that what if it turns out
that there are ufo's that are from outer space but they're staying at a higher level or not
interacting with us and what if the military sees that and wants to control our perception
and so they're putting in these deep fakes i don't know it's a possibility
anything's possible really i mean that's a lesson from quantum mechanics anything that
can happen will happen but obviously we can't take that too literally but you know we should
be open-minded we shouldn't it's very easy to just try to think of a list of what it could be
and come up with a very small list but we don't it's hard to know when you see all this stuff
coming out like in in the news and like the mainstream media and this guy this grush whistleblower
and you know going on whatever he went on 60 minutes or something to talk about how there's
ufo crafts with aliens um you know i wonder how much of that is like a smoke screen or a limited
hangout and how much of it is real like if they're if they're gonna give us that yeah it's what is
really going on yeah it's hard to know i mean i didn't want i didn't even pay attention too much
to the grush stuff but i think i saw one analysis and that showed some of those clips and the interview
i mean maybe i didn't see the whole interview but it just seems strange he would he would give
he seemed like a little excited and would be very non-specific with his answers so it's very hard to
debunk what he's saying he was just saying very vague statements and so it was a little strange to
know what what's the point of that what's the make of all that right i mean i think at the end of the
day it's clear that the some people maybe in the military government they just want there are a lot
of people that just want the best and they're worried that society will freak out too much
and will cause chaos and so that's another angle too there could just be a lot of good people who
just want to protect ourselves from what's going on because it might be too you know people could
have like schizophrenic breaks from realizing right religion if there are UFOs and extraterrestrials
what does that do to religions it could break people's psyche to some degree so depending
on how you look at it some people are hungry for all the information to be released
and some people i think people tend to think that if information is hidden it must be nefarious
but sometimes people hide information because they want to protect as well and maybe there's
both of those things going on maybe there's some people that want to hide information for positive
means and maybe others for have their own agendas who knows yeah yeah i don't i don't know i honestly
think that if that did come out and like they admitted and showed like they paraded a fucking
slang saucer down whatever pennsylvania avenue to show everybody i don't think i think it was
saying the headlines for a couple days and i think people would forget about it i don't think people
would care yeah and i think that the public is think about it like it would be a bigger
thing than it really would be i think people are just too distracted with everyday life to give a
fuck yeah yeah i mean there'd be some really good podcasts and documentaries that come out and like
people like talking about it and it would be entertaining i think right isn't the mystery
almost more entertaining yeah the mystery is more yeah it's definitely more entertaining
than if it actually came out and we all knew about it then i wonder what would be the next
mystery would there have to be something to to replace it right so we'll see we'll see what happens
the beings would be the next thing yeah right have you heard about the stories of like those
things coming out like the beings coming out and talking to children i mean i've heard a lot of
stories i mean i've heard of there's there's tons of stories of these things like hovering around
schools and landing at schools and like communicating with the children telepathically
saying that like technology is bad for humanity there was something in world war one that i forget
it happened maybe was it argentina i don't know there was some event where i think the first
sighting there wasn't very many people and then the second sighting there was maybe almost 20,000
children that got involved and then there was going to be a third sighting and then the government
came in and shut the whole thing down really that was a hundred years ago what do you think about
bob lasar um i would say overall it's a little he seems like more of an attention seeker than he
puts off on joe rogan i mean if you just look at his background he's obviously a
a smart intelligent guy and he would do funny things like he would get a jet a glorified jet
engine and put on a bicycle that his friend made and ride it around los alamos i mean just saying
that's that's a pretty eccentric thing to do right to ride around on a a bicycle with a jet
engine it's right it's a little i mean he would throw parties in the desert where he just you
know a lot of people get obsessed with obsessed with explosions and so he would bring people out
in the desert and would blow off all these explosions for entertainment he ran a brothel at
some point right um okay i mean and then for me personally the thing that really convinced me was
the claims of his education i just don't yeah i mean obviously i'm biased what are the claims
of his education i'm biased people who don't know what what is that he says he did he claims that he
got a degree from mit but there's no record of that degree and so he's claiming that i don't
know the government or whoever wiped all of the records of this and so he's claiming that there's
this secret backdoor of getting people education to study this stuff and there is some reason to
believe that it might be true because he did work for at los alamos it seems and los alamos denied
that so los alamos is this uh research center in the desert and it seems like bob lasar worked there
i don't know maybe for a few months and then got fired and los alamos denied and they denied him
ever working there and so that's once once people found some document someone found a document with
bob lasar's name on it implying that it was some record that he was an employee and so that was
the evidence saying oh see there is a lie here and then so there's this bigger thing i mean at the
end of the day i don't i don't know i you know i've never met bob lasar i've never talked to him
but i did see a claim where someone said they asked him okay so if you went to mit what professors
did you have that's a good question right and he ended up naming i heard that he ended up naming
some people that weren't professors at mit that and one of them was a professor at some local
community college in california i mean if that's true to me that shows that he's lying and also it
is a little strange to me to expect that backdoor thing to be i don't know it just seems like a
bizarre thing so also what did he do as a career i mean he has this company that sells exotic
materials for tinkers if you wanted to build a ufo and get exotic materials you might buy
something from his company so wouldn't it helped to become an urban legend in the ufo community to
i mean i don't know i haven't looked into the dates in this and that so maybe
maybe maybe he did premeditate that maybe not i don't know when he started his company exactly
and when he started making claims but also there's just other things like he seems to get a lot of
information from john lear and yeah what's the story with john lear i mean and once again i don't
know the full details i don't dive into it as much as someone like jeremy riz does but i mean
jeremy goes super deep yeah he's all into the ufo's i mean i'm not i'm not solely a ufo anti-gravity
guy i just happen to be interested in theoretical physics and then you know anything that sounds
interesting i'm interested in i suppose so i mean he also talked about very similar things as bobbas
are right before and i don't know where he worked or what connections john lear had but it's possible
that bobbas are got some accurate information from him and then spiced it up i don't know i don't
know what it is is it possible that mit would hide his record of going there for like a if he was
part of some top secret government program they needed him to go there to learn something for
some sort of nefarious thing that darpa was working on or something i mean i can't say it's
not possible isn't there secret programs at mit i mean there's there's secrets i suppose but
i you know i've never heard of anything like that but that doesn't mean anything either yeah i it's
just a little it is a bold claim to to say and to me it's it's really just the fact that he
he didn't name any professors it right if you went there it's it's it's it's such a strange
thing right how can you hide like so you're gonna go to classes with other students who are there
you know wouldn't there be someone in that class that met him right but how do you hide that how
how is it even possible to give a secret degree is he is he going to these classes or not i don't
i don't know so it's it's a little strange i don't know yeah and there was also apparently
according to jeremy there were some some college uh where they was doing like basically you could
pay to get your degree there you could like it was uh i forget the term he used uh a degree mill
that's what he said it was and he said that they got busted and they got shut down
yeah and did he get it from there something pacific college right so there was some
legal case where bobbles are didn't say he went to mit so under oath he changes his story
or something like this right yeah because he ran a brothel and there was some incident i don't know
there was some lawsuit i wouldn't be surprised if what happened is he wanted to work at los alamos
and he was trying to find a way in and maybe he convinced someone at los alamos hey i can
help you reverse engineer whatever and someone there bought it and but they didn't want to tell
their supervisor right and they're like let's give this kid a chance and then once they let him in
they're like wait a second this guy is kind of a hot cannon he's like running a brothel
doing explosions in the desert like we got to cover this up to me that seems like the most
likely thing it makes a lot of sense to me i don't know it just seems more likely than
adding on more layers of craziness and who knows i mean maybe he did work there and did see something
in a window for three seconds i have no idea i mean that maybe there's some partial truth in a
story but to me it seems like there's a couple cracks what do you think about how he was describing
that reactor that was at the center of that flying saucer he said there was like a basketball
size reactor that if you put your hands close to it pushed your hands away from it and he explained
that how he remember how he explained it that thing sort of like bent gravity yeah around it
and helped those things like basically fall through the air yeah i mean it's hard to know what to make
make of that i mean is it an element 115 that's also but from a scientific point of view it's
a very bizarre claim and it doesn't really help the story that much because well first of all
there is this island of stability so it's hard to get atoms that are stable that have that many
protons in it but it's theorized that there might be an island of stability around like 120 130
but we don't know and so 115 is even you know jeremy points this out that there's research on it
before but i think he is also maybe not specifying that there's also no good reason to think that
115 could be stable so and people ended up trying to make it and it wasn't stable and so
it's hard to get actionable insights from these claims if we can't if people have tried to reproduce
it and we're not getting anything close that looks anything realistic then okay what do we make of
this bubble is our story i mean that's why i appreciate from jeremy the most is we just says
look what actionable insights can we get from his story to help make progress on building UFOs like
okay if that's the end goal what do we do with this information and it's very difficult to actually
use anything he says to help but i mean it's also a very difficult problem so yeah and well i mean
it's something that like it couldn't inspire more people like you or physicists to like try to
dive deeper into this problem with gravity and anti-gravity and get more people working on it
and experimenting on some of these theories yeah i could and yeah bubble czar was inspirational to
jeremy riz as well right oh yeah yeah he was exactly yeah and i mean at the end of the day i don't
know bubble czar doesn't seem like the worst person in the world to me like i feel like there are
worse people but i don't i don't know you know maybe he it once again it's kind of like the UFOs
it's it's hard to prove or disprove his story right and those seem to whatever reason be the most
interesting ones it's the most mysterious it's in the middle pull it hey pull google this is
interesting pull up um on google pootins anti-gravity planes oh boy this is crazy yeah i didn't even
hear about this one you were mentioning this i don't know what okay pull up that video right there the
top one is it long 30 minutes oh god all right see go back to the article we're not gonna this
already looks legit yeah super legit okay there you go try that one bit shoot bit shoot oh that's
yeah legit site oh that's how you know yeah that's how you know it's real bro oh it's the same video
so is there something you remember i just thought i saw the headline i thought wow
pootins got anti-gravity planes i mean it's a nice headline that's for sure it is a super
good headline i want to click on that yeah the club that dollars oh my god join the prophecy club
for 990 from your credit card and you can sign wow okay so much for anti-gravity planes i don't
know yeah well it is funny though because there is going back to kind of the the free energy in
tesla stuff there were claims of russians in the 70s doing some theoretical physics connected to
unified field theory and consciousness and relating to torsion and as far as i can tell it seems like
it's not a good pr move during the cold war to claim that russia's figured out a unified field
theory right so i don't know the validity of those theories either and probably a lot of those
theories were wrong but i just noticed that there were theories that were published in the west
that were very similar or sometimes identical that didn't cite the russians and there was also
response in the west to say that those theories were crazy as well and there's been evidence
in the past decade suggesting that a lot of these theories from the 70s
aren't as crazy as it seemed once again it goes back to kind of no go theorems people said oh
if you add any types of terms like this it's going to lead to bad effects that are unphysical
because of some math theorem that i put together and i cooked up and so
there was a lot of evidence suggesting that a lot of these exotic theories that eric
weinstein's that geometry that eric weinstein's talking about torsion spacetime torsion that stuff
there's this notion of propagating torsion and the russians were studying this during
during the cold war and whatever reason it was a very active area of research in the west from
you know the 50s to 70s and eventually it's very bizarre what happened this torsion is in
string theory and but they what they do is they end up saying at the end of the day they make the
statement in vacuum the torsion vanishes and i'm joking like they almost put it in capital letters
like there is no torsion in the vacuum and so they send out this message saying oh we don't
have the crazy torsion but it's actually in their math the string theorists are doing all the rigorous
math it just just to study the electron in curved spacetime you need torsion to minimally couple
it to get a good theory that makes sense based on the principles that we currently use it requires
this torsion maybe it's not propagating maybe it's not a literal wave equation maybe it's
just inside matter itself but it seems to be relevant and what has happened is they say okay
well what's the experimental implications and they say gravity is about looking into the stars
and so they'll run these tests they'll say what is the chances of there being torsion they'll add
in all these terms into their theories put coefficients and try to see are should the
coefficients be zero because if the coefficients are zero then the whole thing cancels out and
it's like not real and so what they find they look into the stars and they say this torsion it
shouldn't affect any of the motion of the stars from the experimental data it doesn't look like
torsion exists so it's not real it's not physical but they're looking in the wrong place because
there's work showing how it's actually an internal gravitational symmetry whereas the other note we
currently think that gravity is only an external symmetry and so that relates to why it's relevant
for the stars things out there but it turns out this torsion is more relevant for elementary
particles for atoms inside matter if you're trying to make a UFO you're trying to figure out how do
I use materials from the real world and get this spacetime curvature and how do you engineer it to
get the desired spacetime warping so I can just rather than moving through spacetime I bend spacetime
and then just come along for the ride and so everyone experimentally is looking for torsion
in the wrong places and the the nice theories already predict that it's very difficult to
experimentally detect this stuff but it provides theoretical self-consistency in the theories
and probably is actually helpful for quantum gravity but people there's this wikipedia page
I think it's a torsion fields and it says a pseudoscience in parentheses really so there's
a torsion wiki page and then there's a torsion field pseudoscience page and it's a very strange
thing because they'll say or sometimes called the axion field which is studied in string theory
and it's like wait so are you saying torsion is crackpot wikipedia is that what you're I mean
it makes no sense torsion field oh my god it literally the fucking title of it is pseudoscience
so this this is what's happening where basically anyone in academia who doesn't have the time to
look into torsion right they just heard from someone else they heard through the grapevine
that torsion's crazy right some russians studied it and they don't they don't even show like the
original dates they claim that the russians looked in the 1990s after the cold war it's like no they
were looking at it before that so yeah there there's a lot of bold claims there was this russian who
maybe even in the 50s or 60s he claimed to detect torsion from the sky and claimed that it moved
faster than light there's a lack of consensus on that no one seems to agree with that claim
maybe it's wrong you know maybe maybe this guy cozy rev i don't even know if he's mentioned on
that page which shows you that they're kind of withholding maybe he's on there but basically
there's something going on here for quantum gravity and depending on there's different theories that
you can have with spacetime torsion and some of them have what could be anti-gravity but we just
because you can write down a theory that has anti-gravity doesn't mean it describes nature so
that's the challenge we're trying to figure out what is the good theory and the problem is a lot
of these theories some of them a good class of them they don't predict enough differences from the
standard theory for us to tell but we know that we're starting to study condensed matter systems
which are just like complicated phases of matter in the laboratory and it hasn't really gotten to
the gravitational point yet but we're starting to understand that there's a lot of exotic phases
of matter nothing to do with gravity we can make exotic materials or metamaterials and those might
maybe there's some way we can optically pump these materials at different frequencies to create
resonant states that effectively new lead to new quasi particles so we're getting better at
becoming alchemists of reality to create arbitrary materials and so once we start doing that one of
the things I've been trying to point out is that once we connect it to gravity we should be thinking
about things like torsion and non-matricity which is even more exotic fortunately it's it's so exotic
that there's no there's not as much of a taboo but it's so it is very strange the properties it has
are very difficult to wrap your head around mathematically and physically so people prefer
not to study it but when you look into the unified field theory it seems like getting the exotic
matter in there we should at least stay open-minded and say there's this mathematics maybe it'll have
utility in the future and so rather than just blindly rejecting all this mathematics I'm trying
to advocate that we at least study it and stay open-minded we don't know exactly what theory but
maybe someday there's something in a lab that gets measured that we can't describe and maybe
that's when it turns out oh we finally found something in the lab that is giving us something
that we can't predict maybe that's something going on gravitationally and we know that there's
actually even in chemistry there's always slight experimental errors in the in the measurements
and ultimately relates to quantum mechanics and it relates to spin and as I was mentioning spin
is supposed to source torsion it seems because it's torquing spacetime so you have matter that's
spinning and it's like torquing spacetime with it and so if we're if we're neglecting that
there's actually someone who worked at Caltech she didn't mention torsion but she said that quantum
gravity might describe some of these discrepancies in chemistry which is a little counterintuitive
because you'd expect gravity to do with planets if we can't feel the gravitational forces between you
and I why would something even smaller affect gravity but it's it's not because of the mass
or the energy it's the spin and the spin of an electron and it's also a spin density that's the
other important it's the spin divided by the volume so that's actually what sources torsion
right and so if you have something that's really small and it's spinning like a particle then that
might actually lead to torsion so there's actually no reason to expect that a star that's so huge
would lead to torsion because it's so big that it's going to have a small spin density right
so it could turn out that as we start exploring these more exotic metamaterials and try to figure
out if we can build anti-gravity craft maybe some of that gravitational physics will come into play
and the conventional theory so this one's mostly talking about propagating torsion which
might be crazy maybe we don't need non-propag maybe we need non-propagating torsion which is inside
matter and it doesn't propagate into the vacuum of spacetime and so if it's inside matter and we're
trying to make matter to warp spacetime maybe we need the mathematics the geometry to describe how
spin is responding how spacetime is responding to spin i wanted to talk to you about that guy
named jack sarfati exactly that's a good segue who i think his name is even on that wikipedia page
somewhere is he what does he have to do with this well he used to study a lot well let's just
actually go through his whole story it's very very amusing so he maybe in the 60s or so maybe
50s or 60s he was about 12 years old maybe 13 12 he gets a call on the phone and it's this robotic
voice in the 60s claiming to be a computer from the future and that he should go and talk to this
military guy to get involved in this secret program to study science or something and so that's
just a very strange thing and so for what he he bought that story it seems he's saying he's repeating
to this day he's very old now jack sarfati's and he's 88 and so he ended up having this very strange
career where he became a scientist got a phd but also ended up having a career where he somehow was
funded by these black budget operations basically he would get money wired from some swiss bank
account i don't understand the details right and so it's just this very bizarre character where
it's how is he even getting paid in the first place it's very strange but they wanted him to
figure out consciousness and how it relates to physics so he was into that and he got into that
and so he actually has a lot of mathematical chops to some degree and is pretty knowledgeable but then
is going into a lot of these controversial topics and so a lot of the russian physicists are interested
in his work whereas in the west they're they're saying he's kind of crazy right and so there's
this funny thing where even jack is pointing out look the u.s should care more about my work
because the russians do you know and so he's in that old mentality where he's trying to get money
based on fear of okay we need to combat russia so you know cold war mentality give me funding
and it it's a different game than it was 50 40 years ago but anyway so now he kind of went back
he was studying torsion at some point and now going back who did he claim the robot was that called
him and told him that would it tell him it told him to talk to someone in the military to join some
program i always looked at that and thought the most likely choice of who that was was the military
that's just me right and how old was he 12 or 13 or what the fuck so it's a very strange story right
and he he believes it it for the most part i mean he'll admit it's a possibility that it was the
military because i asked him once but you talked to him yeah i've met him in person once and so he
has this infamous email chain where he's actually pretty rude to be honest really so yeah he's kind
of a dick so he he'll he has a huge ego he but he's claiming i have all the ufo stuff figured out
i have the math i have the theory he's trying to say we need some huge project from the us to fund
him where he would be the leader of the group and he would run everything right and so he struggles at
sounds like our buddy greer yeah exactly so jack doesn't know is he's not great at getting collaborators
he pisses a lot of people off he'll kind of attack them on emails and just say you're stupid and all
this and that so most people just don't want to put up with him either and so i don't know i at least
saw that he was interested in some curious things so i just wanted to i stay involved in his little
email thread just to see what's going on a little bit so i've just been learning about what his
proposal is and i think he's asking the right questions uh maybe i have slight disagreements
now at this point on what he's claiming but he he thinks he can slightly modify general
relativity in a way that's productive that helps describe how you can get efficient uh anti-gravity
and he claims that meta materials will be useful and the two the stars academy group
with tom de long and all those other government people they were looking at meta materials they
apparently got some sample i guess linda molten howl apparently owns this sample that allegedly
was recovered from some ufo crash they did analysis on it and it seems like some meta material some
complex layered structure with all something that was engineered and so he's paying attention
to that and then he's also been thinking about consciousness and for whatever reason there's
this idea that some of these ufos are conscious craft i don't know where this is coming from so a
lot of these people that are in this community have this opinion that you'll eventually get
machines i mean it's kind of like ai right as as you make ai is there a point where ai breaks
through and becomes conscious and we've already seen that with lm's not that they're conscious but
there was there's sort of this breakthrough with why with uh ai and large language models and chat
okay yeah yeah so we're already seeing it there where you can never really predict
exactly the performance that's going to come out of these systems with ai you kind of have to
test it and see what happens and sometimes you'll make slow and steady progress and then all of a
sudden it just gets way better once you throw more information at it and that sort of happened with
gpt4 so maybe you could argue that if you brought quantum computing in with ai right that could lead
to machines that are conscious and maybe that maybe that machine could also be an anti-gravity
craft that is conscious and people claim a lot of these i you know i don't know what to think of
any of this information uh people who claim to get abducted seem to say that people interact with the
the craft telepathically right and so being in the craft yeah exactly there's a there's a whole
abduction phenomenon whether there's tons of people that guy john mac that hired psychiatrist or
psychologist studied all those people hmm you familiar with that no no i'm not yeah it's
basically what you're saying nice interesting yeah yeah so there's it's it sounds like some
crazy ideas but even the Nobel laureate uh penrose roger penrose has some ideas with hammer off
on how consciousness works and how it relates to quantum mechanics and how it might be related
to things in our brain that are sort of like metamaterials and so jack has kind of keyed into
that as well and so there's something bizarre happening where the claimed resonant frequency
of these metamaterials from these craft are in the terahertz regime it when tom long was on
terahertz regime it's a frequency range of light so think of different colors as different frequencies
yeah many people just they're they're oh yeah terahertz waves it's like what what is that right
it's just electromagnetic waves in a certain frequency range got it and so it seems like these
metamaterials uh there was some analysis apparently done suggesting that something in the terahertz
regime that's why tom de long was talking about it because of that and then it seems like what did
tom de long say about it the materials that his to the stars academy group looked at seem to respond
positively to have an effect work with if you pump it with um high frequency light you can maybe
get some exotic effects coming out is the idea and also in the brain there's arguments claiming that
maybe there's some okay i'm getting this from jack safari and i don't know if it's true or anything
but he's claiming that he sees the connection between consciousness in our brain and these
materials and he also claims that he has a theory to see why those materials would
lead to anti-gravity but all of that should be questioned there's not no one else in the world
would really that claim that that is true that's his claim and i think maybe he's on the right
track but i don't think he has all the details figured out but it's it's curious so what is his
overall like 30 000 foot opinion on what like the modern day ufo's are that we're seeing the navy
pilots are saying well he's just basically trying to point out that we do have the the theory to
predict that he's saying it doesn't law that violate the laws of physics okay and he's claiming that
he has the understanding on how to run a group to actually make these uh-huh because most people are
are dumbfounded on trying to describe it for the most part so at least he's attempting it but
it's a work in progress like everything most people aren't going to get it right at first so
come all these crazy people like these geniuses like this guy like the sarfati guy or like
like robert bigelow all these people have these crazy wacky stories of like why they're
preordained to be the fucking savior of the world a robot called me and told me to contact the
military it's so strange right i mean no no offense to um the guy who runs your company but like my
sun can remote view like it's me my personal bias like thinks like why do you have to throw this in
like it just seems so bizarre and outlandish to me yeah your son can remote i figured out my son
how do you figure that out it just it blows my mind and but yeah these people are super fucking
smart this dude's a billionaire who's throwing millions and millions of dollars into people like
you to research these theories which is amazing like it's just like it's it's interesting i've
i've noticed just a correlation and the people like that that have these weird sort of like stories
ultimately it's like origin stories yeah it's about people's experiences right and whether you
believe how you interpret those experiences everyone is coming from a different background
in life and that's why some things seem realistic to some people and other things don't like if you
never see any weird things happen yeah you think the world isn't weird you know yeah and you just
go to your desk every day push some numbers whatever there's nothing weird happening why
why would there be remote viewing or this and that but if you're going through your life day
to day and you're seeing things frequently yeah you you have to rationally find some way to explain
and once you know once you go through all the options and it's nothing's left and it starts to
get to a point where once you have weird experiences it's hard to not come up with a weird explanation
yeah and it's also it's always like those weird experiences almost inspire these people to take
on these tasks yeah right exactly because that's what forms their opinion that it's even possible
in the first place right i don't know how you are with that guy bob begalow who has that aerospace
company but he talked about having like wild experiences with like poltergeists in his house
very strange like seeing seeing entities or hearing entity interacting with ghosts and
shit like yeah i don't know what to make of all the way i'm like i don't know what to make of it
either and like psychic abilities i just try to not accept or deny it i just right i just try to
take it in remember it and say it's a possibility i don't know because at the end of the day it's
it's very easy to just get a knee-jerk reaction to either accept or deny something right we want
to believe these UFOs are real but then other crazy things we might not want to believe it right
maybe maybe maybe remote viewing is possible but UFOs don't exist i don't know you know it's you
never know it's hard to know i mean that's what i struggle with i don't feel like i know anything
actually when i think about what it actually means to know something i might think i know something
but i don't know you could have a better understanding of it like you could have a
like a comparatively better understanding of it than other people or like or than most people
like yeah you could have done like the work to understand it enough to talk about it and have
like an intelligent debate or conversation about it to where you can understand it more but you
still don't know at all um and all those descriptions are just approximations yeah right exactly so
they're not right yes you know and then there's also like what we were talking about last night
when it comes to like some of these crazy abilities that people like the remote viewing and seeing
ghosts or seeing spaceships people like there's so many people that claim they're abduct abducted by
aliens or the c u f o's or had like things appear in their rooms and like i told you that gary
nolyn the guy who studied all those metamaterials gary nolyn is um pull up his wikipedia page forget
what his exact title is but he um he basically found these metamaterials or these materials
from an excavated ufo crash site in new mexico there he is he's a immunologist and a uh an
inventor but um he works really closely with that guy zhok valet okay yeah right and studying
some of these materials they found that they're basically like they're unexplainable to our
modern science or technology so we're starting to understand the science of it we are it's just
very advanced and we don't understand everything about it but we're we're starting to get our our
toes wet so to speak and we are producing exotic materials in the lab and that's why
overall like i grew up in particle physics but that whole field is dying because the lhc
is kind of discovered what it needs to discover but the real big field of physics is condensed
matter and that's all about studying things like metamaterials so vast majority of physics is going
in that direction of studying real materials and that's very active area of research we're
discovering all the time tons of papers of new exotic phases of matter and that's the thing no one
knows exactly how they'll be useful yet and so they're so it's it's really mind-blowing because
if you think about atoms there's only about a hundred different types of atoms and we can
combine those atoms to make molecules but it's a finite number the thing that is so mind-blowing
about these different exotic phases of matter is that it's like there's effectively an infinite
number of atoms because as soon as you pump with one type of wave at some frequency and you have
some type of setup sometimes you can get these exotic phases where the particle gets dressed
by some other fields and gets this new identity and it becomes some quasi particle with different
properties and so it's like you can make in the lab you can simulate new particles effectively
where really it's all this chaotic stuff going on but you can find this theory that says effectively
it's roughly like there's just this quasi particle that and then it makes it simpler to work with
these quasi particles and but really maybe it's some it's just a model for what's happening
and it's pretty accurate at describing what's happening and so you can we don't understand
yet the full landscape there is some classifications on types of materials you can make and that's
been progress that's happening but we don't I don't think we understand fully yet all the different
types of quasi particles we can make right and so that's why I think it's so exciting to see what's
happening in science right now because we see it right we're waiting for that Jetsons moment where
we can just finally take off into the sky and we're starting to see the scientists latch on to
all these new types of materials and study in the in the conventional laboratory setting
they're not thinking about anti-gravity right now but who knows what'll happen in 20 years once
it starts to find new applications maybe it doesn't get used right away for one thing it gets used
for another thing once it starts making in the industry then you start making cheap copies you
start producing it on a mass scale then more people start playing with these exotic materials
then you got some crazy tinker who says wait if I combine these three things in a clever way maybe
that can lead to some novel device you know so it'll take a little time to get there but
we're making progress it's interesting too that many materials that a lot of people
describe from various quote-unquote crash sites around the world like New Mexico and like Roswell
and even Brazil and Virginia Brazil there was that crash that James Fox me the documentary about
they all describe this material as being like this foil shape material like a very thin metal
lightweight foil that they can crumple up in their hands and as soon as they let go of it it takes
shape again it's interesting that it's very like it's everybody describes it like that yeah it is
strange right mm-hmm I don't know if that means you'd think it means there's more likely or something
there but I don't know but yeah it also makes sense that you would want to engineer a material like
that mm-hmm you want something that's strong and super light and a metal that's really thin
for aerostasis and that that makes a lot of sense that you would find something like that
right if there was some advanced technology we talked a little bit last night about Stephen
Greer yeah he's a character you watched his documentaries and stuff yeah I I actually met
him in person once and talked about five minutes what got you interested in him well once again it
was this type of thing where I originally was just trying to figure out efficient engine technology
based on quantum field theory and to just see if quantum field theory could help and that led
into finding more free energy stuff and you just once you start looking on the internet obsessively
you just start running into people and at first you ignore it's I don't want I don't care about UFOs
yeah he's got all this other stuff he's talking about but then eventually honestly the idea of
what he did with the disclosure project when I heard about that it kind of blew my mind in a way
I mean he seems to be doing something that is risky he is collecting all these documents
from that are claimed to be classified documents that he's getting from these whistleblowers
and so he in some ways has this underground community as being a pioneer with bringing
whistleblowers out to the public since since 2000 and so that part of his story really caught my
attention because it's hard to imagine why someone would take such a risk it seemed like he was doing
this out of the goodness of his own heart to some degree like he it seemed like he has this passion
this deep passion to explore this problem like it's just very difficult to go through the daily
motions if you don't actually care about this stuff right so it seems like he does care it he
puts on a good show at least right and so that's what caught my attention it was just strange I
didn't know what to think of it for the longest time so he basically is trying to say that there's
all of this technology that's in the private sector that has been reverse engineered including
applications for UFOs but also free energy and medical technology and so he's claiming that a
large reason why we don't the why the military is or the not even the military there's private
companies these aerospace companies might be holding this technology back is because of how the economy
works and there's this idea that if you put a product on the market that's so disruptive it
will destroy the economy so there's this other guy that I met once named Nassim Haramein he's
he's this controversial figure who's kind of an outsider to the science community but is
a scientist so he claims and does research and has this institute and looks into exotic technology
I talked to him so they it's funny they claim they have figured out some stuff when I asked him well
why haven't you released it he said I didn't realize this but someone told me that if I did
it would destroy the economy and I don't want to do that how did it destroy the economy because
then you wouldn't buy cars anymore yeah well then oil gets shut down and then that's connected to
geopolitical implications and then think about all the people who have jobs that but I don't know
so I've noticed this thing where it seems to me that someone told him that and I also know that
he seemed to get investment well I think he got investment money so I don't know it seems like
there's something weird it no no no Nassim Haramein so it seems like something is happening where
people with money are giving money to people who are inventors and saying hey you know you
should be careful about putting this out because you want to do good in the world but hey I want
to do good in the world too but you're actually going to destroy the economy if you put this out
too fast because it'll be too disruptive right and it kind of makes sense on some regards in terms
of innovation like you don't want to innovate too fast there's not if you innovate if you're making
a new iphone yeah and then a day later you make one that's infinitely better and then a day later
you make one that's even better right you can't distribute it out in the world quick enough so
there's this debate on let's just say there was this godlike technology that solved all of our
problems right there's this debate on what is the safest way to bring that technology out
some people say that it's safest right because it'll if you do something too chaotic it'll cause a
shock to the system is the argument I don't really believe that right but like okay make that argument
let's just say that that one of these people had figured out anti-gravity right how to figure out
how to wait to have transportation have not be combustion engines right we can basically
to propel ourselves around the world in the universe with anti-gravity okay it's out of the
if they let the cat out of the bag all of the companies that are creating airplanes or cars
whatever it is they wouldn't they would all have to start developing it and commercializing it at
the same time they would all start in the same place people wouldn't instantly be able to go out
buy these things it would be a slow slow like it like a bad analogy to this would be like
Elon Musk talking about building these like a new version of his car like he announces some new
Tesla car that's crazy fast and or like the Tesla truck he announced like what three years four years
ago and it's still not out yet and there's so there's all these companies that are talking about
like these this new technology that they're working on developing it doesn't come out people know about
it but like they they have to everyone has to catch up slowly until it becomes available to the
market and then eventually like saturates the market so like I get the idea but it's not like
something is going to be instantly everyone's going to buy it and put everybody out of business
still everyone's going to have to buy regular cars and fly regular regular airplanes for
like next 10 20 years yeah and there would be a transition it would take time it's not going to
be that catastrophic but another aspect another way to look at it is if you were an aerospace company
and you did have advanced technology do you let your do you keep do you let go of your biggest
secrets right away or do you just make a plane that's slightly better than the last version that's
already in the public which is going to make you more money right are you going to make more money
by just releasing your best technology out now or are you going to make more money by taking 100
years to releasing it and slowly iterating putting out slightly better plane make money there slightly
better plane make money there slightly better plane right you never get to what you actually have
and that way it provides security as well because if these companies are doing contracting for the
military you want to stay ahead of the game so right the the US is trading weapons the US wants
to keep the best weapons for themselves just in case something bad happens right right so
you want to stockpile your best technology it just makes a lot of sense from a military perspective
and a financial perspective because if you have a secret that no one else knows you can do something
that's worse than that secret and put that out and iterate on that and just climb a ladder
if you just put it out right away yeah you might you might get a bunch of money really quickly but
it might not be as long term of a strategy to make more money and it provides that security of
you can drip out technology that you know you have something better than and so now oh the Russians
or whoever they're looking at what's out there in the public and they're reverse engineering our
weapons to make but it's like aha if we're already ahead of what's out there and they're
taking time to catch up what we released they're already advancing further right so they can stay
ahead of the game and so it doesn't make sense to me that obviously some technology comes out of
the military at times and sometimes stuff stays classified I mean that's not a controversial
statement right so it but it's surprising to me that more academics don't realize this or think
about this the fact that it's obvious that there are secrets and I think academics maybe get a
slight ego that thinking oh well they're the smart guys so it's not possible for someone in the private
sector to actually discover something new in science if it's just one person it seems much
easier if you're open in the public and you have a team of scientists who are the smartest people
in the world like wouldn't they figure out all the advanced things but are they thinking of theories
are they tinkering on how to make anti-gravity craft like if that's your end goal you kind of need to
be doing that to make progress with it so obviously the aerospace industry would have a leg up on
figuring out novel propulsion it makes you think of the quantum computer too like um I've seen
have you seen photos of that big IBM quantum computer they're building with like all those fans a
giant pyramid yeah things and fucking insane looking and meet you cocky who said that that
thing is going to make us immortal maybe will it make us immortal I don't know how long do you
how long do you think before quantum computers become a thing that everyone has access to
oh everyone has access to the picture not maybe not everyone but maybe like before it becomes
like a thing that like maybe like the biggest companies have I would say five to ten years
there's going to be more breakthroughs and what is that thing right there supposed to do
well I suppose it's supposed to be a quantum computer so essentially classical computers
have bits zeros and ones and this thing operates in atoms this uses q bits which are these quantum
states that have the probability of being alive and dead they can be zero and one at the same time
right so it's just a fundamentally different paradigm of computation and really what it is
is it gives you different ways to solve problems than classical computers and a lot of those ways
seem to be useful but so there's this catch up there's certain things that right now classical
computers are better at and so there's there are quantum computers that exist but they're not great
yet they're they're not competitive so there's just starting to put out papers well they'll pick
a very specific problem that they fine tune that they know the quantum computer will be good at
it's not really a useful problem but it's just something they can compute to get some data for
and then they'll show hey if we do this very specific thing the quantum computer is better at
that thing that isn't really useful yet but it's progress and so eventually the thought is once you
get the quantum computers better and better there's a lot of errors it's hard to make a good one it's
very difficult there's a lot of noise involved and so once they reduce all that noise and can get a
clean quantum computer then the hope is that it should be able to outperform classical computers
or at least solve certain problems that classical computers would be bad at solving and then maybe
eventually also be able to do everything a classical computer could do but who knows there
might be some stuff where sometimes classical computers could still have some utility as well
and you could just use both it's just another tool in the toolbox and so I would say that we're at
this point where it's experimentally realized it's entering industry companies are being formed
there's investment money and it's just getting there it's just getting there so I would say five
five years is where it's going to start taking off well what do you think about like what the
implications would be on humanity when this sort of stuff becomes real and we start using it for
different applications whether it be like commercial stuff or medicine or yeah it will help
communication find solutions to arbitrary problems yeah it's yeah it's so vast on what
computers have been useful for right yeah so just think of a better computer the sky is the limit
and especially also it's just really interesting to see the development of AI at the same time yeah
and so I think the huge explosion is going to be once AI gets into quantum computers
you're going to get best of both worlds and that's going to lead to some revolutionary things
that's the singularity that's where we become slaves to the robots
we'll see what happens right or do we merge with them or right do we figure out how to
unplug their power if we need to I mean it's all about how you look at it I mean
it the unknown is always scary and so I like to just think that at the end of the day if we try to
use if most people try to make good decisions then hopefully it'll work out
but it is hard to trust humanity at times but I think humanity is doing a lot better than
our society likes to give ourselves credit I think we're going through this
self-reflection period which is healthy so I think humanity is doing a lot of reflecting on
all the negative aspects to try to understand how we can improve and I think that's healthy
right before before there was the internet you just read what was in the newspaper and
it was hard to get information so as soon as all this information was easily accessible
that's what caused us to reflect and think deeply about wait humanity is doing this we're doing that
I didn't know that right and we're learning all these new things that we have access to
and we're uncomfortable with it we don't feel like we're going in the best direction it's a
little nerve-wracking where maybe we'll destroy our planet with global warming this and that but
I think we do have the technology to solve these problems I think we can solve these things and
as soon as we actually need to solve them I think we will find creative solutions and so
you can get excited or you can get fearful I think we should get a mix of both and we should
just be responsible and try to do the best and make advancements that to me I think it's key to
try to focus on technology that frees us we don't want to get a system where we become too dependent
on it because then that will lead us to becoming weaker over time but it's it's going to happen
to some degree I think it's hard it's hard to get around that right like once you have robots that
can do everyone's jobs it's going to be a rocky transition to there I mean maybe it doesn't happen
that way literally but let's say it did happen what happens 500 years in the future how are you
even motivated to do anything if it's just you push a button and it does everything for you it might
change our psychology where we sort of get lazier lazier or maybe it like frees up time for us to
not do like monotonous busy stuff hopefully we become more creative more creative figure out a way
to become one of those type two civilizations or type one civilization yeah so I think both
it's gonna happen just like these warring apes trying to blow each other up yeah I don't think
it's going to literally be idiocracy level but I think on average we won't need every person to
contribute as much as we used to so that will change things but that'll lead to more freedom
of exploration yeah which will drive curiosity drive creativity yeah and I think that's the thing
to focus on is the the potential for additional freedom but right how do we not get stuck in
some economic system that ends up turning into some pseudo-communistic state you know a lot of the AI
advocates are saying we need universal basic income I don't understand how that's going to work
right away especially if it's not done internationally how do you realistically
do that especially the US we're exporting dollars you just start printing money and giving it out
to the citizens right why would anyone want to hold on to dollars well we're going to need a new
financial system we change our financial system the US roughly every 40 years we went off the
gold standard right we confiscated everyone's gold during the great depression right we change
things about every 40 years so we're kind of due for some financial change and we're going to have
to figure that out where do you think that comes next I don't know I mean there's all this talk of
digital currencies right is it fully decentralized the bitcoin versus the central banks they're making
their digital currencies what what's that going to lead to obviously we don't want to go into the
full china mode right that's so it's never acting yeah minority report yeah and so it's it's nerve
racking right you can imagine it going really good or really bad and realistically it's probably
going to end up somewhere in the middle yeah how did you meet Jeremy Reeves did he reach out to you
you know it was through this apex community I had been aware of his youtube channel for a while and
had been watching some of it and then it was actually through jack sarfati's email list
that they wanted jack to give a talk and jack didn't want to give one so then I ended up giving a
talk to the their conference he thought they weren't serious enough because he's this highbrow
academic yeah so yeah um one of there's there's this group uh falcon space or something like this
and they they they have some lab where they're doing a bunch of experiments and there's debates
there because the experimentalists there aren't really they don't care about general relativity
which is our theory of gravity so jack sees that as being disrespectful to some degree so
yeah I don't know we'll see what ends up happening with all so what is going on the apex conference
thing yeah so I mean it's just this community where they have a bunch of people giving talks and
there is this lab that's sort of adjacent to it where a lot of the lab members will give talks
there and then they'll also invite other guests to share ideas there they're trying to go for this
sort of open source movement and try to figure out I guess anomalous propulsion originally they
started calling it anti-gravity but then so that's the other thing some people there's a debate on
what what anti-gravity is right some people latch onto that term and then start doing things that
might just be electromagnetic but maybe there's some efficient way to get propulsion that technically
is an anti-gravity but is still helpful right so then some some people are saying I'm only interested
in the true anti-gravity the warp space where I can go to other galaxies other people are saying well
I'm in a lab tinkering I just want to figure out how to get to outer space most efficiently maybe
maybe the most efficient way to get out of our atmosphere is different than the most efficient
way to travel in space and so there might actually be a couple different types of technologies that
get developed and sometimes people don't realize that difference so then there's like debates right
that happens on this email thread a lot so so going back to what you what we were our discussion
earlier about um like dark government programs working on like super advanced technology they
wouldn't they wouldn't want to get out to the mainstream because it would disrupt the economy
or disrupt some like big industries like oil or whatever it might be I was mentioned to you
yesterday that guy Malcolm Bendall who has the plasmoid technology can you google that guy's
name Malcolm Bendall so we can actually read the the real description of it but I was telling you
like shell oil gotten he got into a big so type in Malcolm Bendall shell oil and we could like
see what's happening but it sounds like he's discovered some sort of technology atomic energy
from water plasmoid uh proteam power for internal combustion engines using water as an atomic fuel
so go to that first paragraph of that second page zoom in on that that sounds like some
electrolysis perhaps the uh implosive energy revolution of the thunderstorm generator
australian Malcolm Bendall has invented a proprietary plasmoid induced and controlled atomic
energy release process which allows water to be used as atomic fuel when deployed as an engine
the bendall engine this innovation is known as the thunderstorm generator using this novel technology
uh conventional engines and generators can be retrofitted to run a combustion of water as
fossil fuels producing negligible uh tonic emissions when toxic emissions when compared to
current outputs existing hydrocarbon fossil fuels uh petrol diesel and gas are solely used in
uh used to achieve the initial operating temperatures and vacuum anyways
this is fucking some wild shit that he's come up with yeah this sounds like a lot of people would
initially reject this yeah and there was like apparently there was some big
a thing a fight between him and shell oil well where he was um i forget what exactly he was
doing i think he was buying land like way back in the day to like sort of excavate oil or to like
pull oil out of it and he was doing some work with shell and then he came out with this and then
shell i guess they got intimidated by this and they they wanted to suppress it so they came out
with some like disinformation about him and published it so where people wouldn't take him
seriously but um this is the guy he went on Joe Rogan's podcast with with this guy Randall
Carlson um and they never released the the episode i will say that there are a lot of
similar sounding claims out there of a lot of people trying to use water to split hydrogen and
oxygen away from each other and use that for engines and there's a lot of different designs
claiming to do this but there's kind of this mainstream thought that allows people to just
say that that makes no sense it there's no way that this could all work i don't know i don't
know what to think of it who was like who was the guy who got there was a guy who like out poison or
something the guy who got Stanley Meyer Stanley Meyer he also claimed to have a water powered car
and there's a lot of youtube videos of people claiming to have water powered cars usually they
can't go that fast maybe like 30 miles per hour i don't know i've never drove one in purpose in
person and inspected it but it's a little curious to me that there's you know there's possibility
that all of them are fake but it it's something to keep in mind well are there a lot of tinkers
that are actually figuring this out or not i don't know right something to keep in mind
yeah it's it's very and Stephen Greer claims that that the people who got access to this patent
once Stanley Meyer died he claims that that entire board of directors also got killed besides one
person who then was scared to do anything the board of directors for what there was some company that
apparently owned these patents that Stanley Meyer had so Stanley Meyer died and then the ownership
of the patents went to someone else it's what i heard from maybe like maybe like search Stanley Meyer
patent uh owners and this is a thing i haven't i haven't it's hard to find that information on the
internet Stephen Greer is claiming that he knows about this because he tried buying the patents
himself oh really so he was trying to get ahold of these patents and he wanted to pay money to open
source it is what he claims he claimed he wanted to give millions of dollars to release the patents
who claimed this Stephen Greer okay i don't know and so that's that's what he claims and then he
claims that all the people who owned it besides one person got killed and there's also claims that
the patent one of the patents had errors in it i don't know i don't it's a huge mess a lot of claims
yeah exactly i keep saying that because i don't know at the end of the day i don't know but it just
strikes me as bizarre that there are a lot of people claiming to have water-powered cars i don't
know if it is possible or not but it seems like it could be possible it's all about the efficiency
it is possible it's all about the efficiency right and people are saying it shouldn't be this
efficient it shouldn't be possible to make that efficient right and there there's even claims of
water having this fourth state of matter it's probably not relevant in here in biological
applications as well so there are things that maybe we don't understand about water yet there
there's controversial things but you know the scientists they're always assuming that their
understanding is reality their best understanding is reality but there's always mysteries and so
that's why i think you do have to be open-minded but yeah i mean you don't want to just get
blindly excited by bold claims either so yeah it is i find it curious all these types of things
yeah well david you got a plane to catch all right thanks for doing this man thanks so much
fascinating you uh you shattered my brain during this conversation tell people that are watching
and listening where they can find more of the stuff that you you're doing like people you're
working with where they can follow you guys and all that yeah they can follow us on youtube at
quantumgravityresearch we also have a website quantumgravityresearch.org and you can see what
type of work we're doing and follow up we'll be doing more explainer videos and starting to make
more content as well so hell yeah cool well i'll link everything below in the description and sleep tight everybody
