So I'm Forrest Danny convinced me to try to start this unboxing show with him
We're gonna try to do some technology stuff. I don't really even know what we're gonna do
We're not sure yet. This is our first episode of maybe more if you guys want more
We'll do it if you don't then just tell us to kill it now
And we'll all just stop while we're ahead. We'll just continue with life for sale
All right, this is I'm Forrest Feld. I unbox stuff. I fix stuff. I buy
Electronic stuff that's too expensive for my credit card
And I like the sound of the knife going through the tape on the box
Today we're unboxing a FLIR E6 thermal imaging camera
It's a camera that shows temperature of whatever you point it at you can see through walls
You can see through doors. You can see through attics
You can it's almost like almost like an x-ray camera. You can almost you can see through clothes sometimes so
This is the FLIR E6. This is the box that comes in
Sounds expensive made in Estonia. I don't know where that is probably somewhere in Europe make America great again
Let's open it up and see if there's something better inside
All right, we're gonna open this up this bad boy up
All right, we're getting here here it goes here. This is getting better. This is getting much better here. I'll pull this out here
Get rid of that boring shit. So this this is starting to look better
This is starting to make me feel good. It shows you about the camera on the back
It says it's rugged. It's not gonna take a shit, which is good. This is a nice case. It's really sturdy
It looks like it's in like a nice drop-proof case
Slide it out of the sleeve the nice FLIR badging on the front. This case is freaking nice
This is a hard case and I came with it. I didn't have to order it separate. It was all part of the kit
All right, so let's open the case and see what's inside here. Let's flip it open here. Oh, it's nice egg crate
It's got custom foam inside of it. So here's the camera itself. Look at that bad boy
This thing is freaking nice dude. You can tell it's not made in
China this is like this is like a real it feels good in the hand, right?
It's pretty light
So that's the camera itself. We got the charger need that
It's a USB mini charger and then we got this thing called documentation accessories probably the manual
I don't read that. This is the FLIR e6. They make it e4 and an e8
This is kind of the middle of the line camera for entry level before you get to like the tens of thousands of dollar cameras on the street
It's usually about
2,000 to 2,500 for this model and then the one above that is another thousand bucks. It's 3,500
Let's press some buttons and see what they do. All right, so I click the middle button and it says measurement image mode settings
Color and temperature scale
So since I didn't read the directions, let's click on each one of those and see what it does
You can change it from thermal to picture-in-picture
Thermal blending and then just a digital camera if you want to take regular pictures. This is pretty cool
So this is different color modes
So it starts off with like the red being the hot and the blue being the cold
A practical use for something like this would be if you're looking for let's say a leak in your house inside the wall
You know, there's a leak you can't find at this
You can look at for temperature differences inside the wall mold you can find mold with these like if so if there's a leak
There's gonna be mold and molds gonna be a different temperature
You can find where your air conditioning is leaking out around your windows pretty much anything you need to know temperature was if you're sick
You can you don't want to touch
Somebody in your house for a fever. You can just do this from across the room. So you don't got to touch them
That's why I bought this. I don't have to touch my kids if they have a fever
I don't want to get sick. Also a kind of cool use for this is finding spy microphones and hidden cameras
They stick out like a sore thumb when you point this at something such as a camera or a microphone or anything
That's got electricity coming through it. It just lights up red. So if somebody has something hidden in your house
It's it's gonna be impossible for them to hide it with this. It just shows up so clear clear as day
So this camera is so sensitive that if I touch the table see my finger
It literally leaves my fingerprint on the table think about if you go to the bank and you type in your ATM number
Let's say like one two three
You can literally just go up right after that person with this and you can literally see the buttons they press
And that that's pretty dope. Isn't that crazy? All right, we're gonna see if we can do this on an iPhone
So if I touch this iPhone screen to unlock it, you can still see where I'm pressing it
even after I pressed it I
Don't want to light up the screen because I don't make it harder for you to see in on this camera
But it's still you can still see it
All right, so we heard a rumor that you could see vaguely
Possibly x-ray vision through clothes. Maybe we brought my buddy here rough all to see if we can see through his clothes
We're gonna look at the rumors that this is like similar to x-ray vision where you can see through clothes and stuff like that
So right now I'm showing rough all pants. Let's change the color on here
So you can see I mean you can see his body temperature is a lot hotter, but it's washing out the definition
This is the things we do for science
So conclusion, this is pretty cool. It's mainly for industrial use
I don't think that it would really be that economical for a home user to use it. It's a cool piece for the price
It works pretty good didn't work for if you're a weirdo. It's not gonna probably work for you
Which is good. We don't want weirdos to buy these. That's why we did this test so you don't have to
You
