We're going to start posting each podcast episode that you see on YouTube a week earlier on Patreon.
So feel free to join for early access to all episodes, plus we're going to start doing bonus
podcast episodes every week. So if you want to join Patreon, it's patreon.com slash concrete
videos. Next week's episode is already posted there, so feel free to go check it out.
What's up, world? We're back with everyone's favorite con man, Matthew Becox. On this podcast,
Matt reveals an unsolved murder which was ordered by a member of the Sinaloa Cartel.
Matt uncovered this murderer while doing research on another true crime story while
he was still in federal prison. Basically, the murderer confessed and he actually disclosed
evidence to a jailhouse lawyer who was helping him work his case. And this jailhouse lawyer
disclosed all of this information to Matt that actually proves that this guy ordered this murder.
The craziest thing is, is this murderer is probably not going to be prosecuted because
the LA homicide detectives witnesses are currently in federal prison and they're in fear for their
lives. In addition, the homicide detectives actually verified that the murderer has confessed to
multiple inmates that he's committed the murders. I hope you guys love this one as much as I did.
This is peak Matt Cox.
Are you 100% sure that we're not going to get
whacked by anybody for telling the story in the podcast?
I've done prison time. I've had a good life. I've been married, I've got a kid, I've got a hot
girlfriend. I've gotten pretty much everything life's going to give out of me. As long as it's
quick, my fear is that they grab you and they put you in a vat of acid while you're alive or
something. It's how I go. I don't mind going. I just want to be shot in the back of the head and
I don't even know what's happening. It's the idea that they kidnap you and torture you for a couple
days. That sucks. That's a cartel, bro. This is a cartel story and you're telling a story
basically about a fucking assassin and you're basically snitching on this assassin.
That hurts my feelings that you would say that. I didn't snitch. I'm just telling the story.
You're just telling the story, but you're just telling it on our platform and we don't want
to get killed. We want to live. No, of course, but the nice thing is the bulk of the people
that are involved in the story, the higher ups that would actually order some kind of a murder
or something are basically all incarcerated or dead. The other thing is,
this happened a while ago back in 2011. Do you know the other thing?
Remember when I told you to talk to the homicide detective? Yes. He specifically told me,
you understand what's putting the story out that's dangerous. Because it's a cartel-related
murder. He was, I have to tell you that you could be in danger. I was like, Jesus, bro.
Way to get, win me over on cooperating. Am I in danger? I don't think anybody's in danger.
I'm sure we're fine. Fuck it. Fuck it, bro. You got me. Why would you even say all that? You get me,
you say these things that I don't even, I'm not even thinking about it. Now you got me fucking
question. That's the first thing I thought of when you told me the story and you told me that the
guy that you were talking to. How do you think I felt when the homicide detective mentioned it?
Tell me about this homicide detective. Who is he? How did you meet him?
Well, I didn't meet him. I called on the, you remember when I called? Yeah. However,
you got in touch with this guy. Well, that was just, I had gotten out and I was out of the halfway
house and I was still researching the story. So I contacted the homicide detective about the
Josep Potta murder, which is the murder that happens in the story. And I contacted the detective.
What happened was I called, this is funny because this was only about a month or two after your
first podcast that I did with you. Like last November? Yeah. Was it? No, no, no. I did the
podcast or was it? It was about November. It was either October or November. I think it was
October and it's like a month or so later. I called this guy and a couple months later,
because when I called, I called up the, and he was in California. What's wrong?
No, I was just seeing what kind of shit he's drinking today.
This is, you wonder why we get the comments. How could you wrong? How dare you interrupt
Matthew G. Cox? You didn't have to stop. I'm distracted easily. So what happened was I actually
contacted the homicide unit. Okay. Well, the detective, they answered the phone call. He was
like, yeah, who's this? What's that? Okay. You know, he didn't even say who's that. He said,
yeah, what are you calling about? I mean, real just kind of rude, right? Yeah, I don't know if you
speak with cops and stuff, but they're usually like very arrogant. Yeah. And very, you know,
to the point. All right. What are you calling? What are you calling for? So I'm calling about
a murder. Which murder? Okay, who's the detective? I don't know. I'm trying to figure it out. Okay,
what's the guy's name? Who's the victim? And I go, Jose Pada. He goes, hold on. Okay. He's,
all right. Yeah, yeah, that's detective, you know, whatever, Johnson, I forget his name. You know,
that's detective Johnson. And I'm like, okay. And he says, okay, he's not here right now. He's at
home. It's his day off. He said, but is this if it's important, I'll call him at home and have
him call you back. He was, what's this about? And I went, well, I just, I want to talk to him about
this, about the, it's an unsolved murder. And I said, I have evidence that, that I think that
I'd like to discuss with him. And he goes, okay, okay. He said, and what's your name? I go, my name
is Matt Cox. And he said, the con man. No, I asked Danny, and I went, and I went, what? And he goes,
the con man, he goes, bro, I knew I recognized your voice. He's my wife. And I watched your podcast
like two days ago. He goes, no way. He goes, we're watching the second one. It just came out,
right? He said, with that, that concrete thing, right? Yeah, we watch it. He's, bro,
it's a great story, man. It's a great story. He's, I knew I recognized you. Because this is Matt
Cox, right? And I was like, I'm sitting there thinking, I felt like I was being punked. Yeah.
Like I was like, as soon as I, so I told him, I said, yeah, is this one of your stories? Is that
what it is? You're working on a story? I was like, yeah, I actually already wrote the story, but
I'd really love to see it come to a conclusion right now. It's kind of anti climactic, but
I'd love to see it, you know, there'd be an actual, the case get resolved. I'd love to be a part of
that. And he's, oh, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. I'm going to call Detective Johnson at home right now
and get him to call you back. What's your number? Let me get him on three way. I was like, oh my
God. He's like, I can't believe I'm going to call my wife until I talk to you. That's amazing. That was
just like, now the video had gotten like, it was almost at a million view because I hung up the phone
and I called you and this is typical Danny. I called Danny. I said, bro, listen to what just
happened, man. This is what happened. Blah, blah, blah, blah. I go, the guy's like, and he'd actually
watched the podcast. He was in California and he goes, well, you know, the, the internet, or you
know, YouTube's global, right? And I was just like, that's what I thought. It's the internet. It's not
only in Florida. Right. Yeah. I was like, yeah. All right. Well, the idea that he would see it
is kind of crazy. He's like, well, he's in law enforcement. So he immediately tries to start
to belittle you, you know, like, you're just typically idiot. Yeah. I was just like, yeah,
all right, forget it. You're not, you were supposed to be excited and everything. I was excited on
the inside. Yeah, right. That's got to be one of the first times the cops ever been happy to talk to
you. No, they're all happy. Or I guess they're happy that I was happy to talk to him. It wasn't a,
in a nice way. Yeah. What's funny is that the other cop called me immediately,
the detective. Yeah. And he was, you know, I was like, okay, I said, hey, my name's, my name's
Matt Cox. And I guess he's, I know who you are, Mr. Cox. I've read the source. The name of the
story. I was just like, the name of the story is read the source. Yeah. Oh, shit. I was like, wow.
And this, it was, it was bizarre. It was bizarre. And that's, you know, I even, you, and I think
when we talked, you were like, oh, you got to come on and do the story. But the guy that's involved
in it at the time, he was like, no, bro, he's like, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't do this.
Let's, let's wait. Let's, I mean, he's, listen, he's worried. Who? The main, when I tell you the
story, the guy who's basically, he's the jailhouse lawyer. And his name is, it's Chris, it's Chris
Silva, but it's not Chris Silva. Like I've changed the name because I mean, he's literally concerned
that someone on the street could get hurt, like a family member or he, I mean, he's incarcerated,
he could get hurt. I mean, he's, he's concerned. Sure. So I didn't say anything then, but like
a month or so ago, I had talked to him and I said, look, what do you want to do, bro? You know,
you want me to talk about the story? There's no movement. What do you want? He goes, yeah,
go ahead, go ahead and do something. Go ahead and do a podcast or something. And he goes, he's like,
would you think somebody will do it? I was like, I'll call Danny, Danny will do it.
You know, okay, let's, well, let's, let's tell the story chronologically from start to finish.
Okay. And not try to like jump around because a few of these we've done, we've jumped around and
confused people. So, right, right. Yeah. Well, that, that, that little, the homicide detective thing
was just, that's hilarious. Yeah, that's funny. It has nothing to do with the story. So how did
this whole thing start? Okay, so he's got a stack of paperwork for people who, for people who are
only listening on audio. Matt has got a stack about three inches deep of 302 reports, exhibit A,
he's got evidence, he's got all kinds of stuff he's going through.
They're not through it too. They would be, they would be DEA sixes, but still, yeah,
same basic concept. Okay, so. Oh, Jesus. Are you serious? This is, this is ridiculous, bro.
I'm sorry. Sorry. I'll hang up. I'll put, you didn't tell me. You gotta tell me. All right.
Matthew Cox, no manners. Okay. So, all right. So, from the beginning, I'll do it like this.
Yes. From the beginning. All right. All right. So everybody, not everybody. Okay. You understand
there's, as far as cartels are concerned, like Mexican cartels, right? Drug cartels.
There are multiple Mexican drug cartels. All right. The biggest one at one point in time
was the Sinaloa cartel. El Chapos? El Chapos, right. Okay. It's actually run by,
when at its height, everybody always thinks of El Chapo because he was the most well known,
but there's actually a guy, Maio Zambada and El Chapo, who actually started it. Okay. So,
the Sinaloa cartel. Easy for you to say. Take two. So, the Sinaloa cartel basically
created a federation of cartels, and then ultimately, and this funny, because like they
all kind of started being known as like the Sinaloa cartel, right? But it wasn't. It was the Sinaloa
was one of them, and then El Chapo got a lot of press. There was a lot of murders, and he,
he was very outlandish. Outlandish. And so, people started saying, oh, that's El Chapos.
He's running that. But really, it's, Maio Zambada is really probably the brains behind the operation.
So, who is Maio? Maio Zambada, he's actually never been arrested. There's like one shitty photo
of him out there, and he's basically, he's like 70 something years old trying to retire. He's
actually told the, the government like five or 10 years ago, he actually told the,
the Mexican government like, look, like, like, let me pay you a billion dollars. Just, and we'll,
I'll stop. We're good. Yeah, I'm good. And they're like, no. You know, no. You know, because that's
basically what, what, what's his name? Pablo Escobar was like, look, he tried to pay off like,
everybody. Yeah, well, the national debt. He's like, national debt, you give me a thing, I'm out,
and they were like, no, you got to go to prison. They should have took it. Fuck it. Yeah. Well,
he ended up going to, he ended up building his own prison and murdering people inside of it.
And he was like, come on, what are you doing, bro? I would have taken, just take the money.
Like, are you going to pass? Yeah, wipe the national debt clean. Yeah.
Okay, so the Sinaloa cartel smuggles, you know, billions of dollars worth of drugs across the,
into the United States, right? So what happens is, is most people think, oh, all the cocaine,
yeah, it's all made in Mexico. Not really. It's really more made in, in Colombia and Venezuela.
And as it moves up through South America, your basic kilo of cocaine, which is like 1500 bucks
when it's made, as it gets closer to the border, every step of the way, it becomes more and more
expensive. You got to keep paying to have it transferred here, transferred there. Checkpoints.
Right. Well, and just the movement and got to pay off, you know, you got to pay people off,
you got some of it gets, gets seized, seized, whatever. So once it gets to the border, it's
one price. And then once it gets, goes through the tunnels, it's another price. And keep
in mind, all these cartels work with one another. So the Sinaloa cartel might actually be at war
with, let's say the new generation cartel, but they'll still deal with them. We're at war killing
each other. But hey, I know we hate each other. I know we, your guys killed a bunch of my guys
yesterday and we're having a war and we're taking, taking over each other's territory. But listen,
I've got like, like 2000 kilos of coke and I need to get it through one of your tunnels. And we
don't know where it is. We'd rather pay you 500 bucks per kilo to get it under. What do you think?
Yeah, of course, of course. Come on on. I mean, they're still doing business. Right. Kind of like
America. Right. So what happens is, as it gets closer, it becomes the price changes.
And that's, that's basically why it's the subtitle is the twisted tale of how an LA
kingpin paid the Jalisco price because the whole Jalisco is a town in the Mexican side of the border.
And that's what the whole argument was. This whole thing kind of started at once there's a
bunch of money and these two guys are arguing over how much to pay and somebody ends up getting
killed as a result of that. So that's, that's it. The name of the, of the story is the source.
It's the, the twisted tale of how an LA kingpin paid the, paid the Jalisco price. So
with that said, we know about the cartel now. We know what the title means. Here's what happened.
There was a guy named Juan Garcia. Juan Garcia's like niece or nephew or sister married into the
Sinaloa cartel. So she married some, she married like myos, nephews, one of myos. Hold on a second.
Sorry to interrupt. Where, so where's this guy coming from? Like, how did you get introduced
to who this guy was? No, I haven't, I haven't met any of these people. Okay. So, so you're
basically the guy that you met in prison who's the lawyer is telling you the story of this guy.
Right. Jailhouse lawyer. So he's not a real lawyer.
The Jailhouse lawyer, did he know this guy in person? No, I'm going to get to it all. I mean,
I can tell you how I met him. Basically, I met a guy, I met a guy who does law work in prison.
Yeah. I think it's better to start with that, how you met that guy and how, and then that kind of
like introduces the whole story. Okay. The way I ended up with the story was this. I was in the
middle of, I, I'd written a book called Once a Gun Runner. Right. With Deverelli.
Deverelli, which Deverelli then got out of prison with the manuscript, according to Deverelli,
in his, all of his motions, Warner Brothers got ahold of the manuscript and used it to write
the movie War Dogs. And he was in the middle of suing them. But Deverelli had never paid me.
Like he took the, like if you saw the movie, you know, he's not a, he's not a soft and cuddly guy.
He took the, he actually took the manuscript and never paid me for it. Like he was going to send
me money. He was going to publish the book. He was going to. Did he sign anything? Yeah. He signed.
You got him to sign shit when you wrote it? Yeah, I will. Like signed some sort of waiver.
I have a contract. What do you mean I have a contract? Oh, you signed a contract with him
in prison? Waiver. I don't need a waiver if you're dealing, if we're, you keep with the waiver.
You said that last time about some, some, what, about a, what did you get a waiver?
There's no, I don't need a waiver if you're working with me and we're writing a book.
So you signed like a Works for Hire contract with him. Exactly. That's, that was, that's what
happened. So I signed a contract, but the problem is you're supposed to pay me when the book gets
published. The book was published. You never paid. I had to sue him. The point is, so I'm,
I had just found out that he had published the book and that he was suing Warner Brothers and
he's not contacting me at all. At that point, I still had, I was, I still had 15 years to go on
my sentence. So he's thinking he's never seeing me again. I don't have to pay that guy. That guy's
gone. Yeah. So what, what ended up happening was I was looking for someone to help me with legal
work. Well, Frank Amadeo, which is another book I wrote called It's Insanity, Frank Amadeo was too
busy. Okay. He's doing people's criminal cases. You're doing someone's criminal case, a civil
case is like, I'm trying to get this guy out of prison. And you're concerned because you haven't
got your several thousand dollars or whatever. It's like, what are you doing? I don't have time
for this shit. So what happened was I ended up talking, there was another guy who just arrived.
All right. He had just arrived in prison or at the, at the low security prison from California.
So I go up to him and I say, Hey, man, listen, I heard you do legal work. I said,
I have a problem and I explained the whole problem and he goes, okay. And then he said,
let me check it out. He goes to legal work a couple of days later. He comes back. He goes,
I think we can sue him for this breach of contract, blah, blah, blah. I said, okay, cool. He said,
we, you know, we can definitely do that. So he says he agrees to go ahead and take on the case.
No problem. Well, as we start walking around, I'm asking, I ask him questions, you know,
we start walking the track, talking about the case. And then I'm asking him about him. I'm
like, Oh, you heard from Ella? Yeah. You know, drug case, big drug case. There's a lot of guys,
blah, blah, blah. Okay. So as we're walking and his name, like I said, Chris Silva. So Chris and I
are walking around. That's his real name? No, it's not his real name. That's a pseudonym because
he's concerned about getting hurt or anybody getting hurt as a result. So as we're walking
around, I'm like, well, were you, he was so well spoken and was so knowledgeable on the law. I
thought he might have been a lawyer on the street. And I said, so were you a lawyer on the street?
He said, nah, I was here for drugs. He said, I'm here for drugs. And I was like, oh, okay. He said,
what are you here for? I go, con man. Like that. And he goes, nice. Nice. So we're walking around
the track. And he goes, he said, yeah, I just started doing law work when I was got locked up.
I had so much time and I was in California. It's almost all cartel guys. So I started working with
the cartel guys and helping them try and get out of, you know, get their sentences reduced.
And so he would do stuff like try and get, he started off slow. He started getting people's
like they have, you have like a, you have an open case in California, an open case in fucking,
whatever, in Nevada, but you can't get a treaty transfer until those cases get resolved. So he
started knocking off all these, they're called detainers, getting rid of detainers, that sort
of thing. Eventually he gets better and better before, you know, he's working with these high
priced lawyers. Like you're some Mexican cartel guy, you've got millions of dollars,
you can hire some lawyer for a half a million dollars. Well, the problem is that lawyer's
like, look, this guy doesn't read English. Yeah. Like, so Chris would come in, read all his paperwork,
and then talk to the lawyer for him. He also doesn't, not only didn't read English, he probably
didn't even speak English. So he becomes the get the goat between. I seem like a really great thing
to do once you get locked up in prison. Because it seems like something that could like really
occupy your time. Well, not only occupy your time, but also give you like some sort of value. Oh,
absolutely. And protect you. You know what I mean? Like, well, that's the big thing with him is that
he wasn't a gang member. Right. He's not a cartel member. So you're not with a gang. You're not
with a cartel. You got to find something to do. You need to make yourself valuable. Right. Exactly.
Otherwise you're a victim. Yeah. You know, there's, there's only, you know, sheep and wolves. Exactly.
So, and if you're doing that kind of shit for those kind of guys, they, they're, they'll protect
you. They want to protect you because you're saving their ass. Yeah. I remember, oh, I'm gonna
say, he told me this one story was hilarious. I was like, he was like, only had one, one problem ever
because he just wasn't affiliated and guys are like, you know, who you fill it with, I'm not.
And then they'd ask around like, Hey, man, that guy's not affiliated. What's up with that guy?
And then they don't touch him. Don't even talk to that guy. You know, so what happens is he starts
getting better and better. And he did this for five or 10 years. And before you know it,
he's really taking on guys cases. Like he's doing 2255, right? So he's knocking and he's,
and he has, starts having this great track record. And because he would really do the
research, like, I'm not going to file crap. A lot of guys will just take your money.
Yeah. All right, man. So you have to have your family put 1500 bucks and I'll take your kid,
knowing that you don't have a prayer. Yeah. And they do that all the time. Like I always joke
around. I'm like, you understand, I could write a motion in green crown and send it in. And I,
it could say, it could say, do the right. This is Matt Cox's do the right thing motion.
And the government would respond like it was a real motion.
The government, the court be like, the government is ordered to respond to Mr. Cox's do the right
thing motion. You're pursuant to sections such and such. I mean, if you didn't know anybody,
you'd read the whole thing and think, man, they're taking a series doing something serious.
Yeah. Because you don't know anything. You're some drug dealer. You rob banks. You don't know
anything. Right. So it, and that's the worst thing. So you get these guys in here who act
like they're big shot, you know, they really know what they're doing, but they don't.
They just know more than you. Yeah. I don't want to even know a little bit about a subject
more than someone else to prove that I'm a genius. Yeah. So the point is, is he starts
having real success 10 years off here, five years here, seven years here, 13 years here.
And guys are like, it's like, wow, you're doing great. He's doing pretty good. But he's very
selective. So what happens is eventually he meets another inmate by the name of
Juan Garcia, by the name of Juan Garcia. I love that name too. It's so generic.
Is that a pseudonym also? Or is that a real name? That's his real name. Why not use it?
Yeah. There's got to be a million of them. In the BOP, there's probably, there's probably 2000.
For sure. So he, he meets this guy, Juan Garcia, and he starts working on Juan's case.
Now here is the issue with Juan Garcia is this, is that Juan Garcia, after, after Chris reviewed
all the documents, he came back to him. He said, you're time barred. See, once you're sentenced,
you only have one year to file what's called a 2255, which is either there was a procedural error
or your lawyer didn't know what they were doing or they were in an effective or incompetent.
And this guy had been locked up like eight years on a 25 year sentence. So he's basically,
Chris was like, you don't have a, you're way past the time bar. And the only way to get around that
is new evidence. You don't have it. Okay. So there's nothing I can do. And the guy's like, well,
okay. So he said eight months to a year goes by and the guy every once in a while will come to
him and say, Hey, what about this? He's like, no, because of this, that doesn't work. Okay.
You know, this happens. Well, um, okay. So he, so that's how he met Juan Garcia, Chris. Now,
let's go back to the beginning. How did Juan Garcia end up in prison? This is the better way.
Okay. So now let's go back. Juan Garcia started, he was a drug distributor for the Sinaloa cartel.
All right. Now there's a, now he ended up in that position because like his sister married like
Nacho's niece or nephew, his nephew's kid or something. Somehow or another, he's connected
to Nacho, which is the head of the Sinaloa cartel through marriage of some kind. And so what they
did was they came to him and they said, look, man, you want to make some money, go buy a couple of
trucks and we'll load the trucks up with cars and we'll put compartments in the cars.
And then you can drive, you can deliver those vehicles to Chicago. You're talking about like
semi trucks. Right, right. Exactly. A trucking company. So you can deliver them to New York,
you know, Chicago, you'll pull up, you'll leave your, your vehicle in a parking lot,
they'll unload it, you come out the next day, the car's gone, you get on the truck and leave.
It's really not a bad situation because even if you get pulled over and they cop
search the vehicles and they find something in the vehicle, the driver can always say,
I just drive the truck. I don't know. You know what I'm saying? It's like,
it's pretty good. It's a pretty good concept. So Juan does this and Juan's making a ton of money.
But, but Juan's, is he really a drug dealer? Now, if you're, if you talk to a drug dealer
who's in like the drug game, this is a guy like, like Chris basically explained, he got into it.
He started selling like one pill. He started off with like one pill. He's like, literally, I'm like,
that's it. He's like, I'm built his way all the way up. Now, Juan Garcia started at the top
buy a truck, hire a driver, boom, you're making a hundred thousand a week.
You're doing great. Guy's making, he's driving a, a yellow Hummer. I mean, he's doing like,
he lives in like a $2 million house. I mean, he's, he's flamboyant. He's,
he's throwing big parties. I mean, he's acting exactly like any decent drug dealer wouldn't act.
Not anybody with longevity. So he's, so he's doing great. Well, here's what happens. He's
buying or the guy who gives him all of his drugs. I'm sorry, where is he living? He's living in
California. Okay. The guy who gives him all of his drugs is a guy named Jose Pada. Okay.
Now, Pada is basically like Smith or Brown. There's tons of them. All right. So it's another
generic name. So, and Jose, another generic name. So, but it's, but those are their own names.
Matter of fact, you can put Jose Pada, you know, murder, LA murder or California murder, whatever.
There's a bunch of articles. So what happens is Juan, Jose Pada is giving the drugs to Juan. Juan's
loading up the vehicles, putting them on the car movers, whatever the semis, they're going back
and forth. This is working out great. Goes on for a few years. Ultimately, what happens is
one day, one of his trucks gets pulled over and a bunch of drugs. I'm not sure if it was drugs or
money gets seized. And I mean like one and a half million dollars worth of drugs or money
gets seized. They get pulled over. Now, his drivers had been pulled over before, by the way.
Vehicles had been searched. Never found them. This one got pulled over. Remember, it was a
Mitsubishi. The cop goes straight to the Mitsubishi, opens it up, goes straight to the, to the, to the
hidden compartment. Boom, opens it up. Bam. Got it. Got it. Knew where it was. Knew where it was.
Somebody told him. Yeah. No doubt somebody told him. This, this is in a fluke. So they take
the whole Mitsubishi. They, they call the DEA. DEA shows up. They take the whole Mitsubishi.
DEA goes to the driver and says, here's my business card. If the owner of the Mitsubishi
wants to talk to him, have him call me. Okay. Now I'm, I'm simplifying this. There's a whole
bunch of other stuff that's happening, but that's the crux of the problem. In the meantime, by the
way, another shipment gets seized. So now one. So what happens to the driver? Nothing. I'm just a
driver. I drive the truck. So they took all the cocaine out of the truck. No, no, they just,
they took, it was, it wasn't a truck, it was a Mitsubishi. It was just as a car hauler,
like all the different cars are on the truck. Yeah. I know what you mean. So they, they take
the Mitsubishi, it was just a car, a Mitsubishi, whatever. Just one of the cars. Yeah. They take,
they take the whole car. You're talking about the, the truck pulling the cars or just a car
off the trailer? A car was on the truck. Yeah. Car on the trailer. Okay. Okay. Okay. And they took
one car and gave him, and gave the driver a business card. A business card. Because he's
saying, I don't know nothing about it. So these guys knew the Coke was in that one car.
Right. They knew right where it was. Went straight to the thing. They didn't even say that to the
driver? Yeah. They told him he's sitting there watching. Wow. And he, they didn't say anything
other than, look, they're like, who's Mitsubishi? I don't know. It was just loaded on it. I drive
for this trucking company. That's all I know. Okay. Well, if the, if the guy with the Mitsubishi
wants it, here's my card. Walks, leaves. He's like, okay, he calls Juan. Juan says,
you know, he tells him, Hey, listen, oh my God, you know, the guy,
he tells him the whole thing. Here's what happened. Okay.
Turns out that that was the story. Turns out what
You can move it if you want. You can angle it. No, I keep hitting it because I talk with my
hands. That's ridiculous. I can't stop. Don't worry about it. What ends up happening is
they wired the phone of the driver. So they got, they got a, a wire. I don't know if you
know how a wire works, but it's not hard to get a wire, especially if you just found drugs on the
guy. You mean like tapped the phone? They tapped the phone. They have a wire tap, a court order
wire tap. Okay. Well, anybody he calls that they basically say, we believe he's a part of the
conspiracy, boom, wire. So now he, he picks the phone calls Juan, Hey, there's an issue. I was
pulled over. There was a problem. They took one of the vehicles. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. I know.
He gave me a business card. I'll give it to you. Okay. I'll see you then. Okay. He hangs up the
phone. Juan then calls multiple other people. One of the guys he calls is a guy named Kuko,
which is one of his partners. He calls up and Kuko's and he's like, you know, the guy, they took
the guy, the guy, the guy with the money, the guy with the money that he's like, he's saying all
this on the phone. That's all I know because because I have the transcripts of him basically
just calling up and bearing. He calls all these guys and they all get wire taps immediately
on those guys. Oh my God. There's actually a DEA. This is a 8500 per kilo. This is all cocaine
kilos. Anyway, $8500 per kilo. Yeah. Like on one side of the border. Okay. And then as soon as it
gets here, it jumped to like 11 or was it 17? I don't know. Probably 17. Right. And then it
changes as it goes up to like New York. Yeah. Okay. So what happens is this, so there was another
seizure too. In the meantime, there's another seizure. So he now owes and I don't know that
it's like 2.3 or 2.5. I'm going to go with 2.5. Juan now owes $2.5 million to the Sinaloa Cartel.
So what he does is he ends up going to Mexico. The Sinaloa Cartel or the Cartel in general,
they don't like losses, but they understand they happen. Yeah. Right. And if you can provide,
so you think, oh, I owe him $2.5 million, they're going to kill me. Well, not if you can prove.
You know, not if you can prove, look, this is what happened and I'm going to pay you back.
You're responsible. You have to pay him back, but they'll let you pay him back. They're not
just going to whack you immediately. So these guys actually go to Mexico and they meet with
Nacho. Okay. They meet with Nacho. They meet with Jose Pada and they meet with a guy named G.
His name is, I have it written down here, but it's too complicated. Yeah. It's
Germano, Olavara, so whatever, but you don't have to have the whole name. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. G.
I don't want you to say the whole name. Keep going. They're all in the indictment.
I've got the indictments. So he's there and so they basically, Juan shows up with Cucco and another
guy. I'm not going to say his name. It's just too many characters. But the point is they show up
and they go, you owe us $2.5 million. He's like, yeah, I know. Well, here's what happened. He's
like, you owe us $2.5 million. You don't have a seizure. There was no arrest. You just lost
$2.5 million. You're basically just coming to me saying, hey, you know the $2.5 million? Yeah,
it's gone. Right. Here's the business card. If he stole it, he probably wouldn't have done that,
though. Right. And that was their argument because they're saying, you gave me a business card.
Right. Well, would I come to you like this if I just was stealing it from you? Right. Well,
it'd be different. Like if there were arrests, these guys can have their lawyers find out,
hey, there was four arrests. Right. There were seizures. Then it's like, okay, clearly,
he didn't take the money. The government has the money. The cops knew that. Was it the DEA?
Probably. Yeah. It was DEA. Then they knew that. So they knew it. Right. But he doesn't have any
proof of that. All you've got is a business card. Right. What I'm saying is the DEA knew if they
didn't arrest them, they wouldn't be able to go back to, you know what I'm saying? Well, the driver
probably. Right. No, I agree. But also, you kind of have to make the argument too that's like,
why would they arrest the driver? Because the driver has a viable defense. I'm just a driver.
Yeah. You know, you can't necessarily arrest me for, not only is it not on my truck,
it's not my cab. It's actually not even on the truck. It's in a vehicle that was on the truck
that I didn't load. So it's like, yeah, he's going to get out of this immediately. Yeah.
So what happens is,
Pada, Jose Pada ends up saying, you know, well, you owe us the money. And of course,
Kuko and says, look, we're going to pay you back. He's, I'm going to sign over, you know,
we can't explain it. I know it doesn't make sense, but we're going to pay you back. We
wouldn't have come in here to Mexico and come here if we just ripped you off for 2.5 million.
You just wouldn't find it. We try and get away. We're here saying, look, we're going to pay you
back. Kuko immediately signs over his ranch. They scraped together all the money they can,
and they pay him back. They pay him back the 2.5 million. Right. They pay them all, and it takes
a few weeks to obviously, you know, you've got drugs out. They couldn't just say, like, we'll
do another one for free. They couldn't. Nice. It's not that much. It's more like 100,000 here,
100,000. Well, these guys are terrified. Yeah. I mean, I'm going to do everything. Right. They're
trying to put the money together now. Right. Now. Let's see it now. We don't want to get
out of payment. We're going to get out of payment plan. We're going to get these guys pissed off.
Right. Yeah. What happens if you try to say, hey, I'll do another run for free,
and then you get stopped again? Yeah, you're right. Then you're really fucked.
Right. And then they come and they just kill your family and everything. It's not so good.
So what ends up happening is they go back. They scraped together all the money, and I remember
Chris told me that Juan told him that when they had all the money together and they're
actually going to deliver it to Pada, Kuko actually said, you know, we're going to kill
this motherfucker. At some point, we need to kill this guy because there was an argument.
They didn't mind paying back, but Kuko and Juan Garcia were calling Pada and saying,
listen, please do us a favor. This is like everything we have. I'm asking you to let us
pay you back, but let us not pay you back the American price. Let us pay you back the
Holisco price, which was $4,000 or $5,000. Which was his cost. Right. Exactly. Per kilo.
So it ends up being, that's like a million dollars less, or 800,000, whatever it was.
It was hundreds of thousands of dollars. Do us a favor. Right.
And he said, no, no, I can't do that. No. I actually have the transcripts where he's saying,
no. I remember his exact words were, can't be done. Nope. Can't be done. And he's like,
this is everything I've got. And he's like, eh, can't be done. Tough. So he's like,
you'll make it back. But think of you've been dealing in drugs for a couple of years now,
and that's everything you've got. You just had to hand it all over. I mean, that's devastating.
It doesn't seem devastating if you work at Walmart, but it seems devastating at the level
that this guy and the risks he was taking. I mean, keep in mind, he gets caught. He's done.
He gets 25 years. So he gives hands over all the money. And these guys are basically saying,
at some point, we're going to kill this dude. Because this guy, Pada, was not like Pada.
They were going to kill Pada? Yeah. Well, they were just saying, if it ever comes up,
and we have an opportunity, I'm going to kill him. That's what Kuko was saying. I'll just kill
this guy. So why did he think he could kill him so easily? I don't know. He's just furious that
people talk shit. I don't know. I just thought it was interesting that that was something he
specifically said. Yeah. I don't know that he did kill him. But they obviously knew that Pada
was higher than him, and then they were in the cartel. Right. Right. But you got to hear
out how it kind of ends up. So what ends up happening is a few weeks later, maybe a month later,
he gets, Juan Garcia gets arrested. So he gets arrested on a conspiracy, right? Which part
of the conspiracy is the vehicle? Juan is the truck driver? No, no. Juan is the guy running the truck
company. Yeah. He's the guy who bought the trucks. Right. And keep in mind, too, Juan,
he's the one who married into the cartel. He's the little guy that owns the little truck. He's
actually a little guy. He's two. He's like five foot one, five foot two. Chris was like, he was
tiny. Wow. He's, he's tiny and he looks like a little oompa loompa. He's always waving his
arms. He's shorter than you are. Shorter than me. How old are you? You're a five, five, right?
I'm five, six. I'm five, seven with a good pair of shoes. Nice. Really hurts me. Okay.
Anyway, so what happens is this, he gets arrested and during the course of
him trying to fight his case, he, he starts meeting a couple of other guys that he knows
in prison. While Juan's in prison, he meets like, hey, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah,
you were arrested like six months ago because you gotta think in that high of a game,
you know guys and they're getting popped every once in a while. He's meeting some guy and the
guy's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, man. I got arrested. He's like, oh, I took a plea or whatever. He's like,
oh, yeah, yeah. And he's, and the, this other guy says to him, what happened? And he's like,
Juan tells him kind of what happened. And he says, he was funny. He said, you're dealing with
pot of two. And he goes, yeah, he goes, yeah, I was dealing with him. He goes, I actually got
pulled over. I took a bunch of drugs, met him, he handed over whatever, 50 kilos or 100 kilos.
These guys are moving 500 kilos. This is not, you know, 1000 kilos. I mean, wait till you see the
notes. You know, 250 kilos. So this guy got like 100 kilos or something and right down the street
got pulled over and arrested after just meeting with Pada. He knows another guy got arrested
just after getting something from Pada. They meet another guy got arrested just after, like,
there's all these guys that Pada is connected to that are getting popped that are getting popped.
So Juan immediately starts thinking something's not right. Well, then one of his co-defendants
was cooperating. He had actually done a DEA six where he said he believes Jose Pada was an informant.
Right. So when, when Juan goes to meet his lawyer and he tells him, man, I don't know,
all these guys are saying Pada, Pada, you know, well, Pada, Pada, but it couldn't be Pada. It
couldn't be Pada. His lawyer says, I've got a DEA six right here where it said, where it says that
he's a CI or he's a, he's a confidential informant. He, and he's like, what? Like he really doesn't
believe it, but his lawyer shows him the thing, but it wasn't actually a document that proved it.
It was just saying that this guy said it. Right. But because it was on an official document and it
appeared that he was a CI. Right. And the other guy was saying he's a CI. That was what, that,
that document really solidified it for Juan. Juan was like, he's a CI. It says it right here on DEA
six. No, it's just an interview where you're saying it. You're just some other, right? You're just
some guy saying, oh yeah, he's a CI. Oh, Pada, CI. Well, they don't know who Pada is. So it just says
Pada is a CI. It doesn't mean he's a CI. It just means you think it. Right. You're just some inmate
or some, some, some defendant. Anyway, because it said it, he believed it. And his lawyer's
saying, yeah, I know, I think it is too. I think he is too. And other people are saying that's it.
In his mind, he's like, that's, he's a CI. So they put together a whole
motion where it says that because they were using Pada, they didn't have a right because Pada was
working as a CI. They didn't have a right to get a warrant. Why would you get a warrant when you
have a CI inside the organization? You don't need the warrant. You don't have justification for the
warrant. Now, that's an argument that works sometimes. But what ends up happening is when
they finally get a hearing and they get in front of the judge, the, the government comes forward
and says, we don't know who Jose Pada is. We don't even know who, we don't, we've never even heard
that name. Like, what are you talking about? He's not a CI. We don't know what you're talking about.
And one is saying, no, you're protecting him. And the lawyer's saying, oh, they're protecting him.
And they're saying, we're not going to lie to the court. It's, it's, it's not true. We don't
even know who this person is. So what, so what happens is Juan, they lose the motion. Juan's
looking at life in prison. They offer him 25 years. They're saying, you're the leader. He's
saying Jose Pada is the leader, not me. And they say, well, leader of what? He's, he's his boss.
He's the king. They're like, he's above me. They're saying, no, you're running the show. You're the
one getting the shipments. You're distributing it. He's saying, no, I'm just a, I'm just a guy
that owns the trucks. I don't get it from Mexico. So you're not really, you're not the top dog,
because trust me, the leadership role, you get extra, you get hit with extra levels.
Isn't that called the kingpin or something? What is that? What is that term? The kingpin?
Yeah, kingpin. Yeah. But here's the, in the, in the federal system, there's really
guys call it the kingpin. It's basically it's, it's a, it's a, you're like a leader organizer or
you're a, it's the continuing criminal enterprise. And people say it's a kingpin.
And kingpins, when you get the kingpin charge, you automatically get life, right?
No, not necessarily. It's every state is, most states actually will have a, an actual,
where it'll actually say you can get charged with being a kingpin.
Because in a podcast, you don't really get a kingpin charge. They, they inmates call,
oh, that's a kingpin charge. But they actually have it written in a statute where it's like,
this is a kingpin charge. I just, I just did a podcast with this lady whose son got the kingpin,
like he, they offered him like a really low plea where he could take like 10 years or something
like that. And he fought the government on it. And they said he basically just started,
he started a silk road, right? You know, the underground marketplace for whatever. And
he fought it. He didn't take the plea deal. And they somehow got him with a kingpin charge,
even though he was not moving any drugs. He never sold any drugs, never did.
They tried to make up this story where he, he actually,
they're saying he did a murder for hire, but he did not. That's not even true.
And they, they somehow were able to pin him with the kingpin charge. And he went directly to,
and this is a 26 year old at the time he was 26.
The dreaded pirate Roberts, right?
Yeah, dreaded pirate Roberts. That was his, his handle and he had no criminal history,
He never had been arrested, 26 years old.
They got him with the king pan charge
and sent him directly to the Colorado
maximum security prison that El Chapo is in right now.
Underground.
And he has a double life sentence.
Double.
He's done.
And El Chapo only has one life sentence.
So he technically has double the sentence of El Chapo.
Yeah.
Well, it's gonna be hard to do that second life sentence.
But.
A little bit, yeah.
Well, I mean, basically that's like content.
You're the ringleader.
It's a continuing criminal enterprise
and you're the top person in a continuing
criminal enterprise would basically be the king pan.
Just tell me.
God.
But a lot of guys will say like anybody
who's basically the leader organizer
in a conspiracy is the king pan.
Like if it has drugs involved usually,
they'll say that's the king pan.
But technically, there is no technical king pan charge.
Like in the state, they actually had charges
called king pan charging him with statutes
such and such, such the king pan charge.
Yeah.
Anyway, that's your, that's, we totally got off topic.
Point is, is yeah, he, they charged him
with being the leader organizer.
And he's saying, I'm not, I'm just a dry,
I just own some trucks.
I'm just a driver basically.
I'm just a driver.
I just transport.
I'm not the distributor.
I'm just a transporter.
And so they, but the difference is 10 years.
So instead of getting, being able to plead guilty
to 15 years, he played guilty.
He had to take 25.
The judge didn't believe him.
He's like, I don't believe you.
Because, because when the government stands up,
they, they stood up and said, your honor,
there, there is, there are two,
there are the king pins in this case is Juan Garcia
and it's code offended.
Those are the king pins.
They keep talking about Jose Pada.
There's no Jose Pada.
I don't know who Jose Pada is.
They keep talking about it as there isn't.
We don't know who that is.
So what ends up happening is he gets 25 years.
So he goes to prison.
He goes to prison.
He does eight years and eight years later,
he meets Chris Silva, the jailhouse lawyer
that has a great reputation.
Who you became friends with.
Yes.
Juan goes to, to, to Chris.
He shows him his paperwork.
He says, your time barred.
That's it.
Maybe a year later, he comes back and he says,
Juan comes to Chris and he says, listen,
I just found out that one of my code of finance,
when he went to trial, the DEA got on the stand
and the DEA agent said that the money or the,
he got on the stand and he said that the person
supplying all the drugs was a guy named Jose Pada.
And he said, but when I was sentenced,
the government denied there was a Jose Pada.
So Chris went, well, you might have something there
because you can't,
the government cannot take two inconsistent positions.
You see what I mean?
You can't, you can't argue that.
You can't play both sides.
So you didn't know about him,
but then you were talking about him in another court case.
I mean, you can, but you need to go back and correct that.
And that's something that's questionably a new fact.
Could be a new fact.
Yeah.
So what he does is Chris says, well, you know what?
He says, yeah, let's, let's order the transcripts.
So they order the transcripts.
That's going to take a few months to get the transcripts.
They order them and they pay for them
and Juan's sister buys them or whatever.
So while they're waiting,
while they're waiting and Chris is getting stuff mailed in,
Juan comes to him and says, you know,
so what about, he's like, he's going back and forth.
He's like, yeah, that guy,
he's telling him Jose Pada is a snitch.
And he's like, well, let's, let's see.
So they, they get the paperwork in
and they, they file some paperwork.
They file the motion and the motion comes back.
I'm pretty sure this is the way it lays out.
Like I could be off a little bit,
but pretty sure the motion lays out
and they file the motion and the government immediately
denies that he's an informant.
We don't know who this person is.
Well, what ends up happening is he ends up saying to,
to Juan, well, there's an issue.
They're going to, if they keep denying this, you know,
they can always deny that it's the same Jose Pada
or it's a different one,
or it's just who knows what they're going to do
that, that U.S. attorneys are very good
at manipulating the facts without technically breaking
the law, you know, they'll omit things or your honor.
I didn't know that or they'll switch prosecutors
and then this prosecutor can say, I didn't realize that.
Oh, I wasn't here.
I just got assigned.
So they, they're very good at that.
So he ends up saying, you know, we need to be able to prove
that Jose Pada exists and he's like,
and we can't prove that.
And he's like, well, what are you talking about?
They said he exists.
They said, no, no, it doesn't matter.
We need to prove that, that he actually exists.
And this guy, he never says Pada like he says Jose.
They were getting their drugs from Jose.
He didn't really say Pada or whatever.
You know, so there's a whole, it's all questionable.
So he's like, he's like, we really need to figure out
how we can prove he exists.
And he's like, okay.
He's like, well, let's think about that.
If you know somebody who knows him or know somebody,
you know, let's try and figure out,
because they're not trying to get him in trouble.
They're just trying to prove that he is a real person.
Yeah.
Well, what ends up happening is time goes by.
It's not really a new fact unless we can prove.
No reason to file paperwork unless we can prove it.
And one day Chris is watching TV or he's in his unit
and Juan comes in and goes, come here,
let me talk to you.
And he walks in.
He's like, what's up?
He goes, what if Jose Pada was dead?
He goes, what do you mean?
He goes, what if he was dead?
He goes, dead how?
Dead like two bullets in the back of the head dead
or dead like he got hit by a car.
He goes, dead like two bullets in the back of the head.
He goes, let's talk outside.
They walk outside.
He goes, did you have anything to do with it?
He goes, absolutely not.
Do you know anybody who hadn't?
No, did your co-defendant?
No, because I just heard like my sister or somebody
in visitation came today and she told me that he was dead.
I just heard he was dead.
And he goes, well, if he's dead,
we can probably, that'd be good.
We can show the newspaper articles.
I go, okay, cool.
So, wow, Chris orders the newspaper.
Sure enough, he was dead.
He and his wife, Jose Pada,
and his wife and two kids came home one night,
pull into the car, in an affluent neighborhood
in a bedroom community, like a suburb of Los Angeles,
it's called Arcadia.
And it's a really, house worth a few million dollars.
He pulls in, closes the garage.
There's a cartel assassin is inside the garage already.
He had pushed through the door, he's sitting in there.
They pull up, boom, guy pulls out a gun.
Come on, come in, walks them both all inside,
tells Jose Pada, you know, this is about the money,
you got the money, where's the money,
all the money you lost, he's like, I didn't lose any money,
you know you owe that money, I don't have any money,
I didn't take any money, it has nothing to do with me.
And he like puts them on his knees
and shoots them in the fucking head.
Fuck.
Right, wife and two kids are there, right?
I think they're in a bedroom, an adjacent bedroom,
doesn't matter.
You know, daddy just got shot in the fucking head
when you walk out the door.
Daddy's laying in a pool of blood.
So he's sitting there begging for his life
in front of his wife and kids, he gets shot, he's dead.
Okay, they disappear.
There's a newspaper article.
Chris gets a newspaper article mailed into prison.
Newspaper article comes in, well, SIS,
which is the, it's a special investigative services
inside of all federal bureau of prisons
have a division in each prison.
So they catch it coming in, they catch the article,
they call him in, they say, what is this about?
He says, I'm doing legal work for this guy.
The guy involved in this case, he explains what's happened,
what happened and they go, okay,
so this murder has nothing to do with you.
He said, no, no, no, no, it has nothing to do with me.
It's just, okay.
So they give him the articles, no problem.
So he's got the articles, he looks it over.
Well, when they give him the articles,
they say to him, hey, I got a question for you.
Jose Pada, how are you gonna prove it's the same Jose Pada?
What do you mean?
Who says that to him?
I think it's either the lieutenant of the SIS lieutenant,
I think says, how are you gonna prove it's the same guy?
He goes, I mean, that might as well be like,
like John Brown or Frank Smith.
It's a pretty common name, pretty common in Mexico.
For sure.
And he goes, God, yeah, you're right.
I don't know, I'll figure that out.
Goes to one, tells one, how are we gonna prove
it's the same guy?
This guy, you know, this guy could just be some guy
who works at Walmart for all we know.
Could be just an average Joe who has the same name.
And he's like, he goes, you need to be able to ID him.
And there's no picture.
And he's like, okay, so Chris says,
you know what we need to do?
Let's call the homicide.
I'll write a letter for you to the homicide detective
saying we have information, you used to deal with them.
They'll come see you, when they come to see you,
they're gonna put down a bunch of photos,
they're gonna have you ID him.
Once you ID the right guy,
we can call the homicide detective as a witness.
He'll say, yeah, no, no, no, he identified the right guy.
Out of a lineup of six or eight pictures.
Yeah.
Wow.
Now, cause they weren't sure, cause Jose Pada had,
you know, these drug dealers,
like they'll own three restaurants
and a couple of coin laundry mats and so they'll look,
he said on paper, Jose Pada looked clean.
So for all you know, the homicide detective
doesn't know that he's a drug dealer.
So now how do I prove he's my drug dealer contact?
You know his wife's probably gonna be saying,
he's not a drug dealer?
Right.
Have you ever seen the movie, Traffic?
I don't know.
It sounds super familiar.
They arrest this guy in like, whatever her name is,
Zeta Jones, whatever, she's married to him.
Like she has no idea her husband of like 15 years
is this huge drug dealer.
He's got businesses, like they live in a fluent neighbor,
she's clueless.
Luckily Jose Pada's wife wasn't clueless.
So when the detective shows up,
just like Chris writes the letter,
the detective shows up one day,
they call Juan Garcia in there.
He says, you got your letter?
He goes, I want you to,
I wanna know this is the same guy
and that you actually know the guy.
I want you to prove to me that you know him.
He puts out like nine pictures.
And he goes, that's him.
And he goes, that's Jose Pada.
How do you know him?
He's like, I used to buy drugs from him
and he starts telling him,
I used to buy drugs, I used to this, I used to that.
And he's like, yeah, he said,
no, we know that he was a drug dealer.
We know this, so okay, so good.
We're on the same page.
And he goes, okay.
He said, so yeah, definitely he was like,
and you know him, yeah, drugs.
He's okay, well, how, who do you think killed him?
He's like, I don't know who killed him.
And he says, okay.
He says, well, why do you think he was killed?
Do you have any idea anybody that would want to use?
Come on, man, you know why he was killed.
He's like, no, I don't.
Why was he killed?
Why do you think he was killed?
He's like, man, he was a snitch.
He worked for you guys.
He worked for the government.
This guy doesn't know any difference
between a homicide detective and the federal government.
He's an idiot.
He's like, he's like, he worked for you.
He worked for the government.
He's a snitch.
Lots of people wanted him dead.
Yeah.
I don't know the difference between
the fucking federal government and a homicide detective.
So he starts saying this,
well, a homicide detective goes,
no, I've checked.
He wasn't an informant.
And so he wasn't an informant.
And Juan is like, yeah, he was a snitch.
You know, you're just protecting him.
He's the reason me and all my co-defendants
got fucked up.
He's the reason I got 25 years.
He stole my money and he got us busted.
And he's sitting there going,
the homicide detective goes, okay.
He's, you know, couldn't figure out,
one, he's not a snitch.
And two, I couldn't figure out,
he didn't know anybody money.
I couldn't figure out why anybody would want to hurt him.
But you sound like you have a motive.
Yeah.
And he goes, whoa, whoa.
No, man, lots of people wanted him.
He was like, no, he was telling you
he was not an informant.
He wasn't.
And he's like, you have a, he's like,
no, man, I gotta go, man, I, I,
what?
So he's like, yeah, you sound like you're the one
who's got-
Well, then why would he be there trying
to fucking point him out?
Well, right, that's, well,
cause he thinks he's an informant.
He's a hundred percent sure he's an informant,
but he's not.
Right, right.
But from the homicide detective's point of view.
Right, the homicide detective point of view is saying,
he doesn't know who's got,
he's got nobody who's got a motive,
but you just gave me a motive.
One, he's not a snitch,
but you're saying he is a snitch.
You're saying he's the reason.
Even if everything you're saying is wrong
and he really isn't, I'm right.
He's not a snitch.
You clearly think he is.
And you clearly have a motive.
So you think he wants to pin it on Jose now?
Right, he's-
Or Juan.
Juan, yeah, Juan Garcia.
He's now thinking Juan Garcia definitely has a motive.
Nobody else does.
You're the only one who's given me any cause.
So he leaves, Juan goes and finds Chris and says,
listen, man, this is what happened.
I picked him out just like you said.
And he's like, okay, good, good, good.
He goes like, yeah, but it went kind of bad.
It went kind of bad.
Ah, man, I told him.
I told him.
He asked me why he, I thought he was killed.
And I told him, I told him because he's a snitch.
He's like, oh my God, what did you do?
Every, no, you're the only person saying that.
The government's denying it.
They wouldn't deny it if it was, if he was,
they would just say he was a CI.
He's dead, there's no reason to deny it.
They would just say, yeah, the government doesn't care.
And he's like, no, no, he said, well, now he said this,
he said that.
So Chris ends up seeing the lieutenant
like a couple of days later and the lieutenant says,
listen, this guy's asking us to pull all this guy's
phone records.
He wants to know who he's hanging out with.
I'm gonna have to tell him you're doing his legal work.
And he's like, oh man.
So Chris goes back and tells Juan,
and he's like, Juan, listen to me,
I'm fighting my own case.
I can't end up in court and have them bring up this murder.
You can't put me in a position where I'm,
where the FBI is gonna show up and ask me questions.
Do you understand that?
Now he'd had that conversation with him.
He's like, are you sure you had nothing to do with it?
I had nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it.
Okay.
Maybe a month or so later, the lieutenant says,
listen, I told him that he,
you were doing his legal work and he wants your records.
Well, now they're doing all kinds of stuff.
He's like, he goes back to him.
He's like, do you understand what's gonna happen?
He's like, this is what's happening.
They're gonna look at all your paperwork,
all the things that you're saying, you've given them motive.
He's like, so if you, if you used your phone,
if you, however, if you had anything to do with this,
he's like, he's like, so just did you?
And he's like,
yeah, okay, here's what happened.
Oh, fuck.
First he says, he said, it happened slowly
over the course of several months.
First he said, I knew they were gonna kill him.
Like I didn't order it, but I knew it.
You know, he goes, okay, okay, he's like,
and so he's like, what should I do?
What should I do?
And he says, listen, he said, what you should do
is what you should do is this,
you should get in front of this.
He's like, I know you don't wanna hear this,
but what you need to do is you need to go
and call the homicide detective and tell them
tell them that you know who you think,
give them the information,
so you don't end up getting charged.
He's like, no, I can't do that, I can't do that.
And keep in mind, they only wanted to prove
Jose Pada existed because they wanted to be able
to go back in front of the judge to say,
look, I wasn't the kingpin, I wasn't the leader organizer
and get that one enhancement taken off.
So he would go from 25 years to 15 years.
He would have been out within a year or two.
Now he may end up not only just doing your 25,
you may have a murder charge.
You may never get out of prison.
You don't have to have murdered the guy.
You can have ordered the murder of the guy
and you'll get life.
And that would fall under Rico.
I mean, it's extremely liberal.
So the point is, he's sitting in there
and he's already been charged, by the way,
on a conspiracy for drugs.
So it's not like we have to prove much at this point.
No, you don't, yeah.
And he can't, what can he do?
He can't even really amount of defense.
He can't get on the stand, why?
Because I'm already in prison for drugs.
You're really just, you really are just helpless.
So he starts explaining, do you understand,
they're gonna pull all your phone records.
If there's any phone records that you have
that are on your phone, that are on other inmates' phones,
they're gonna pull their phone records.
So now he's like, because here's what happens,
I should explain this.
An inmate gets 300 minutes a month.
So I get 300 minutes a month I can use, right?
Well, I can pick up the phone, I can call for 300 minutes.
I can talk to you for 15 minutes at a time
until it basically adds up, that's about 20 phone calls
and that's it, and then it's over.
Then I can't use it until the next month.
Well, if Danny's in prison and he doesn't have any money,
I can go to Danny and say, look,
I'm gonna pay you 150 bucks to buy the minutes
and I'll give you another 100 bucks
and you let me use your 300 minutes.
So now I've got 600 minutes.
I could put all my phone numbers on his phone.
You have to load your phone numbers.
I could put all my phone numbers.
Well, that's the problem now, isn't it?
If I'm calling the same phone numbers
that are on the same phone, click, click.
Now I can listen to all his
and they're gonna realize right away it's Juan.
So he's explaining to him,
they're gonna cross-reference your phone,
they're gonna, and so now Juan's terrified.
So like the next day or two days later,
he comes to him like he hadn't slept all night
and he comes to him and he goes,
he goes, okay, I gotta tell you something.
He goes, what?
I ordered the murder.
He goes, what?
He goes, I ordered the murder.
He goes, not only did I order the murder,
remember the document, the DEA-6 that said Jose Pada
was a snitch?
Yeah.
He had contacted his lawyer
and had his lawyer send him that document.
So now there's correspondent with that.
Correspondent's there, proof of that.
The lawyer sent it, he then took that document
and he sent it to Mexico.
He sent word to Mexico with the documents
that Jose Pada was a snitch, look, DEA document says he's,
and if you read it, it sounds like it,
but it's really not.
But so one that, plus he got me
and all these other guys busted,
he lost all of your money.
And there's multiple other guys that are saying
he snitched and he gave them their names.
So they go,
the consensus is that they went in front of Nacho and G
and they had a whole discussion
about whether they should kill Pada
and they came to the conclusion that they had to kill him.
Juan was telling him, kill him, kill him, kill him.
And they said, look, you know, this is a standup guy.
He's in prison, he's doing 25 years.
This guy's had all these losses.
He's always blaming on other people.
I got a DEA letter here that says he's a snitch
and I got a bunch of other guys that say he's a snitch.
It looks bad.
It looks bad.
They have a murder.
Juan wanted to murder, they got a murder.
So they sent an assassin, he breaks into the house,
waits in the garage, they come home.
Oh, I love this too.
He came home from church.
So they just gone to church, came home with his two kids,
takes them inside, shoots them in the head
in front of his wife and two kids.
So, Chris is like, this is bad.
He was, you have to understand.
He said, I cannot lie to the FBI if they show up.
If the DEA, if anybody shows up,
he's like, I cannot be involved in this.
He's like, I'm trying to fight my own case.
If my name shows up and then I get in front of court,
the U.S. attorney will be like, you're on her.
He's involved in homicide right now.
They'll say some fucked up shit.
It just doesn't make you look bad.
When I went to sentencing on my own case,
let me just tell you this.
When I went to sentencing on my own case,
I've never had a gun.
I don't have a gun.
Just no gun.
My ex-girlfriend had like a nine millimeter or something.
She had a receipt, it had been stolen.
She still had the receipt.
I had been, we had a burglary, right?
And I, we had a bunch of stuff stolen.
I actually was filling out the report
to the insurance company and I put down,
look what it says, did you have any weapons?
I put down that I had like an M4 machine gun or something.
I was trying to get as much money back as possible, right?
Yeah.
When I got busted.
Once a con man, always a con man.
Of course, I was on the run right then.
So when they got that, the government got the report
and they were interviewing me.
They said, well, you had a machine,
or you had a machine gun and a nine millimeter.
I said, no, I didn't.
They actually charged me with a gun charge.
I went, it's called a constructive possession.
That's when I asked you to buy a gun for me
or you're holding a gun.
We've got a gun, we've got the gun on you,
but really you're there to protect me.
I can now get charged with your gun,
even if it's your new name.
Wow.
So I sit there and I explained to her,
no, no, no, you don't understand, I've never had a gun.
And I explained, she's what about the nine millimeter?
I said, that was my girlfriend's gun.
That was Amanda's gun.
And she's like, well, and they charged me for it.
I said, no, well, you have to drop that charge.
I can't plead guilty to that charge.
That's not what happened.
I'm willing to accept the responsibility for what I did,
but you're talking about a machine gun.
I never had a machine gun.
And the US attorney was arguing with me
and I said, you don't understand,
I'll go to trial on it.
You can put Amanda on the stand.
She's gonna say that nine millimeter was hers
and that I've never had a machine gun, never.
I was just trying to get extra money
out of the insurance company, trust me.
And so she sat there, US attorney goes,
okay, we'll drop the charge.
No, okay, I understand, I get it.
When I went to sentencing, she said,
Mr. Cox had a gun and a machine gun.
He wasn't licensed for fucking bitch.
Is she allowed to do that?
I mean, they're allowed to do whatever they want.
Objection, your honor.
Of course, my lawyer objected.
She already said it, it's too late.
Yeah, the judge is like, and what's she gonna do?
I'm like, when I'm turning my lawyer,
that's not true, that's not true.
You know what your lawyer says?
Shh, be quiet, don't say anything, don't say anything.
Like we have bigger fish to fry.
We don't want to argue that point, we don't want to argue.
What?
We don't want to keep bringing it up, it's not.
I mean, you listen to your lawyer, I was just like,
now I wasn't being charged with it anyway,
but she used it to, it was inflammatory.
Oh yeah, part of the theatrics.
Absolutely.
The judge, of course, is like,
oh, you think you're a badass walking around with a gun?
I don't have a, look at me, I don't have a gun.
I'm not a gun-toting nut, I fill out paperwork.
I sign documents.
I have an arts degree.
Right, I'm a fine arts degree.
Why?
So, I got a paintbrush.
Right, I'm not dangerous.
I mean, I heard someone's feelings once,
but my point is is that, so Chris is saying,
look, I can't be in front of the judge,
and they bring this up, murder up.
Right.
So he's saying, so Juan, I'm telling you,
he's trailing to tell him,
you need to contact the homicide detectives
and tell him what happened.
He's like, but I ordered the murder.
He goes, it doesn't matter that you ordered the murder.
He goes, now, more than ever, you need to go to them.
And Juan's fear was that he had ordered the murder
using another phone.
And they're so afraid they're gonna get to that phone.
Like, once they figure out that I was using Danny's phone
and they hear me talking about the murder on the phone,
prior to it being in the paper, prior to,
I've got a real problem here.
This guy ended up dead,
and I'm the only one screaming, he's a fucking informant.
Right.
So, he's saying, Chris is saying,
all the more reason you get in front of it.
Juan is saying, no, no, you don't understand,
I need to get my time knocked off.
I plan on getting, I'm gonna need all these guys,
when I get out, I'm gonna start get back into the drug game.
Wow, this guy's getting greedy.
Yeah, he's nuts.
He's thinking, one, we're gonna win our motion.
I'm gonna get the 10 years knocked off,
and two, I'm gonna get out and start doing everything
over again.
Hell yeah.
Because now I know what I'm doing.
Now I'm smart about it, I'm gonna be smart about it.
Yeah.
So, Chris is freaking out.
Well, what happens is, no big deal,
Chris actually worked for the lieutenant's office.
He actually was a lieutenant's orderly.
That just means you come in and you change the garbage cans
and sweep it up at the place.
So, he was always being called over the intercom.
So, one day he gets called over the intercom,
maybe a couple of days later, a week later.
You know, they say, hey, Chris Silva to the lieutenant's
office, he goes, okay.
So, he, he goes in there, goes into the office,
and they go, hey, Chris, you gotta go to R&D,
it's receiving departure.
It's another area.
So, he goes over there, he opens the door,
and then, you know, he said,
and sometimes I had to go pick up stuff.
He saw I walk in there and they go, hey, Chris,
go in this room over there,
there's a guy in here who wants to talk to you.
He's like, okay, he walks in, boom.
Guy stands up, or a woman stands up and says,
I'm FBI agent, so-and-so.
Homicide detector stands up, boom,
I'm homicide detector, so-and-so.
We understand that you're doing legal work for Juan Garcia.
We'd like to talk to you about the murder of Jose Pada.
He's like, holy shit.
He goes, this compound is 80% cartel members, 80%.
He goes, if I don't walk out of here in the next 30 seconds,
I'm a dead man.
He said, do you understand?
Like, there's eyes everywhere.
And they go, okay, well, real quick,
did you know anything about the,
do you know anything about the murder?
He goes, he goes, I have handwritten notes
regarding different murders.
He said, I'm doing his legal work.
He goes, he's confessed to me.
He's confessed to me in front of another inmate.
So he is, so he's confessed-
About the murder?
About the murder.
He talked to him, told him about it,
but then another time, he told,
he told him again with one of his buddies right there.
He goes, he's confessed to me and another inmate.
He said, I know the phone numbers he was using.
I know exactly how it all went down.
I know everything.
He said, but if you ever want to talk to me about it,
he goes, you get me moved to the Loaf Security Prison
in Coleman, Florida, and get me a lawyer.
And he walked out.
Holy shit.
Two weeks later, he's on a plane.
To Coleman.
On Conair.
Hell yeah, with Nick Cage.
Oh, fuck yeah.
Goes in, gets a sign.
He said, a week later, he gets a letter in the mail
from a lawyer.
They pointed him, the government appointed him a lawyer.
Then a week or two later, they were like a month or so later,
he gets called in, the lawyer flies in
from like Los Angeles or wherever he was from.
And he says, okay.
He said, this is the weirdest thing I've ever seen.
He said, they're actually paying me to negotiate with you
on whether or not you'll cooperate.
And he goes, okay.
He said, well, look.
He said, hold on, Chris says that to who, one?
No, no, no.
The lawyer says that to Chris.
A lawyer flies in for Chris.
The government hired a lawyer for Chris.
Okay, I got you.
Just to negotiate whether he'll cooperate.
Whether Chris will cooperate.
Basically, right out Juan.
Right, he can basically say, I have nothing to say.
Okay, cool, lawyer goes back.
He has got nothing to say.
But he's now, he's in Coleman, so he's good.
Right, well, now he's in Coleman.
He's a little bit more safe, but he's not so safe
that it doesn't mean that like a family member
on the street would get killed or a cousin.
Coleman was like college, right?
I mean, it was, but like we talked about this,
like people got stabbed.
Like there were gang members, they got stabbed.
They got cut.
Yeah, it's just not like the feds in California or something.
Exactly, thank you.
It wasn't as bad as the medium.
Wasn't happening every week, but two or three times,
two or three times, probably a year or every few months,
guys are getting stabbed.
There are beatings, but it's not like,
it sounds like it should be scary,
but it has nothing to do with me.
If you two have a fight and you're in two other units
and you have an issue, I hear about you getting stabbed.
Right, but it ain't like somebody just got stabbed
in front of you.
Right, it's like who?
Actually the medium, I've seen people stab,
but still it has nothing to do with me.
I know it sounds insensitive,
but the truth is that it's like high school.
If you know, these two idiots over here are hate each other
and then you hear they get into a fight in the locker room,
okay, you know, oh my gosh, you're in a place
where people get stabbed, well, yeah.
It's prison.
I was in science class, like I don't have a problem
with anybody, the point is, one, yes, he could get hurt,
okay, or the other thing too is he could easily get moved
to a higher security prison.
The crazy thing is he got exactly what he asked for,
like, oh yeah, yeah, oh, they'll do anything for you
if they want something from you.
Here's the issue is that-
But even the lawyer said he's never seen it.
Yeah, he said, oh yeah, I've never seen it,
because I've never seen it.
Well, never seen him where they hire me
just to talk to you about possibly cooperating.
Right.
So he says, look, I'll cooperate,
but you can't leave me in prison,
because as soon as Juan gets his discovery in the case,
he's gonna know I'm the one that told.
Okay, I got family in California.
You know, I've got, you know, even if they don't hurt me,
they could kill a family member, and he's saying, look,
I've already done like, I've done like, whatever,
20-some odd years on like, roughly a 30-year sentence.
So with good time and whatever.
You're getting close.
He only had like, four years left, four, five years left.
So he's like, look, he's like,
all I need is I'll cooperate if they indict him.
As soon as the indictment happens,
because when the indictment happens,
then you get your discovery.
As soon as the indictment happens,
you have to file a rule 35 and cut me loose.
And he's like, I'm getting out anyway,
but it's gonna take you six months to do the indictment.
Anyway, I mean, by that point,
I'm basically just, yeah, practically I would anyway.
And the lawyer goes, that seems fair.
I'll go back to him.
So he goes back to him and the government says,
well, what exactly does he know?
And so they go back and forth, back and forth.
And finally they say, okay, we, we promise,
they told his lawyer, tell him, we promise him
that we will reduce his sentence for the information.
He goes, so tell me, what's the information?
Then the lawyer does what's called a proffer.
He basically for Chris, cause he knows the information.
He goes, okay, here's what happened.
And he explains the whole thing.
Then the US attorney stops returning his phone calls.
Right, they got what they needed at that point.
They got what they needed.
They could find the phone records and everything.
Right, right, but.
So they could basically probably prove it without Chris.
That won't, and they may have thought that.
But what didn't happening was they contacted,
like they then contacted the homicide detective
or the homicide detective.
They also lied to the US attorney.
They told him the homicide detective
was on his way to fly out there.
It was all arranged.
This is when it's happening.
So Chris's attorney, it proffers,
thinking everything sounds great.
Well, then they stopped returning his phone call.
He eventually contacts the homicide detective at that time.
They stopped returning the lawyer's phone calls.
The lawyer's phone calls.
Then the homicide detective.
Isn't he getting paid?
The US attorney who works for the government
stopped returning the phone calls from,
from Chris's lawyer.
Chris is still talking to the lawyer.
Right, but Chris's lawyer's getting paid by these people,
right, that aren't returning his phone calls.
Right, but he's basically served his purpose.
He's being paid by the court, right?
Not the US attorney's office.
Okay. It doesn't matter.
It's not like a year salary.
Right, he got, they needed a couple of things from him
that paid him some money.
Yeah, they gave him 12 grand.
Now they got their information.
But here's the thing that his attorney
even called the homicide detective
because they had told him he was flying out.
Homicide detective says, what?
No, we're not flying out.
I haven't even talked to the guy.
What are you talking about?
I mean, just completely blatantly and just lied to him.
Set up a, set up a whole environment
that was conducive to tell me what happened.
Right.
So as that keep in mind, they were also at this point,
they had not, they had not prosecuted El Chapo.
So they're probably thinking we can use this in El,
we might be able to use this in El Chapo's case
because El Chapo would have had to have been
one of the people to make that decision.
So what ends up happening is they got their information.
The homicide detective said he called
the U.S. Attorney's office.
The U.S. Attorney's office said,
yeah, we're not interested in pursuing this.
And he's like, yeah, but,
but this is a homicide that happened in California.
We're interested in it.
So I'd like to come, go see this guy.
He said, go see him.
He's like, no, no, you have to give him the agreement
that you said you'd give him.
And the U.S. Attorney is like, you know,
we're not gonna give him any fucking agreement.
Fuck him, no.
Let him do all his time.
Now here's the thing.
Chris has been fighting his case
the entire time he's been down.
Now it, let's say, take me for example.
I go in, I cooperate.
I plead guilty.
I don't file anything.
I'm doing everything I can to help you
to try and reduce my sentence.
So if the opportunity presents itself,
most likely you're gonna help me.
In my case though, keep in mind, I did help you.
They still didn't, this happens all the time
where you cooperate, they actually arrest someone,
they indict them, they get everything.
And guess what?
They still don't give anything, fuck them.
Right.
Fuck Danny.
Let him do all his time.
There's no sort of like paperwork
that could bind them to that.
Remember the Mueller case we talked about?
Yeah, remember I also told you
that's one of the only times I've ever seen a document
that was binding.
I remember you saying that.
Tons of these things, they're never binding.
Because what they wanna do is when they put you
on the stand, let's say you cooperate
and this guy, and he gets busted.
And then he goes to trial.
They wanna be able to put you on the stand.
Sounds right.
And have Danny, when your defense attorney says,
have you been promised anything?
They want Danny to say no.
If Danny says, yeah, they did promise me,
they promised me that, then it looks like
they bought your, right?
Like you could be lying because whatever.
Right, because you're trying to get him sent.
To get something, yeah.
Right, instead, if you say no, and they go,
well, are you hoping to get something?
Well, yeah, I mean, I like the government to do something.
They never promised me anything.
That's really why they do it.
It looks good.
So, can you explain.
That's basically bullshit.
Can you explain briefly the difference
between what makes it binding and what makes it
something like this example where you just promise
that you're hoping they give you what they promised.
It's just the wording.
It's the specific wording in the agreement.
In my own case, they said,
if any of the information that Mr. Cox gives us
leads to the indictment or recovery
of a substantial amount of funds,
we will consider it substantial assistance.
So, basically, the agreement just has to say,
if Matt Cox does give us this information period,
we will reduce his sentence.
We'll think about it.
Right, no, we will.
They say, we will.
Not contingent on them consider it.
I told you that.
I called back and said, yeah, they said this,
they said they do it.
And they said, right, they said, she goes, no, no,
we said we'd consider it and we did consider it
and it's not enough.
So, how do people not catch this?
No, they do.
Your lawyer will tell you.
You understand they're not promised.
The point is this, look, Danny, you just got 20 years.
We need you to give information on John.
And you go, okay, well, I want something binding.
We're not giving you that.
But if you give it to us and he gets arrested,
we'll consider it substantial assistance
and we might reduce your sentence as a result.
Say, fuck it, go take it.
People just take it.
Of course.
Because what is your choice?
Fuck you, I'll do my time, okay?
I sleep like a baby at night.
Yeah, they don't give a fuck.
Care about you.
Trust me, I don't care about John either.
There's 1,000 Johns waiting to be prosecuted.
That doesn't change a thing for me.
That's why it's so easy to screw you over
because everybody's willing to,
you're willing to do, take a risk, anything.
You know what, really?
You know all that is?
Hope, that's just hope.
Why?
I'm cooperating, and for the next six months to a year,
while he gets investigated, arrested, and sentenced,
you have a year's worth of hope that you might get out.
And I know that it's horrible.
It's horrible for people on the street to understand,
but if you haven't been in that position,
you don't know.
You're so sinister.
Oh, it's horrible, it's a horrible system.
So, back to Chris, so, you know, we're already dragging.
So.
We're dragging, we don't have time, man.
Well, the comments are already gonna go nuts.
Oh, yeah.
So, you know, stop getting off on tangents,
cocks, stay on topic.
Okay, so what happens is his lawyer,
his lawyer was duped.
You know, Chris was duped, his lawyer was duped,
and the homicide detective is furious.
The homicide detective wants to solve the case.
He's saying to the U.S. attorney, give him something.
Write the agreement.
But he won't, now he's not returning
his phone calls.
So, that whole thing, so I ended up
hearing this whole thing from Chris.
He told me the whole story, and I was like,
man, you gotta let me write this up.
This is really the twists and turns.
What I really love is this, is that
even when, Chris said even when he was moved,
he was, I mean, literally up until like the day I was moved,
he was still saying Pada was a snitch.
Even though everything the U.S. attorney presented,
everything in the court, everything,
including the homicide detective,
everything across the board said Jose Pada was not a snitch.
During the course of Chris's investigation,
he found out that the person that connected everybody,
the person that got everybody busted,
the person that got the DEA, all of the evidence
was Juan Garcia.
Remember, the truck driver called him,
he then called everybody, so therefore they got warrant,
or they got wiretaps on every single phone call.
He was just a horrible drug dealer.
He's talking to people openly.
Hey, man, they got that stuff,
they got all the stuff, they got the money.
1.2 million, they got everything.
Oh, okay, hold on.
Okay, well, look, I'll talk to you in person.
What the fuck are you doing?
This guy was just reckless.
What are you doing?
Remember, I told you about a Doug Dodd,
where his buddies would be like,
hey, man, can you get me three green apples?
And two blueberries, he's like, I mean, what, are we farmers?
Sounds like a car or something like that with him.
Are we grocers?
Yeah.
You know, what are you doing?
Yeah, let me call Johnny Appleseed.
Right, the DEA's not stupid, you know what I'm saying?
I mean, you can't wait to meet me on the corner.
You can't wait 20 minutes to drive over here,
you're gonna get us pinched and get us 15 years a piece.
So the point is, is that the whole thing played out,
and I ended up writing his story.
Juan is the one that got everything busted,
and what really upset Chris mostly is,
and the other guy, what upset Chris most was like,
he was like, look, you're a drug dealer.
You're a drug dealer at that level.
You gotta know you could get killed.
He was, but you don't go into someone's house
and murder them in front of their wife and two kids.
You know, they could've gotten to this guy some other way.
Sure.
And he's like, that bothers me.
That really bothered him.
Not that the cartels are vicious.
They'll kill you and your family and everything.
And he's like, but they really bothered me
because Pada hadn't done anything wrong.
This was a dispute over the price of a couple of kilos
of cocaine.
This really had nothing to do with anybody being a snitch.
So it's, and then the fact that Juan wouldn't admit it.
He wouldn't, even though all the facts said
that he wasn't a snitch, Juan couldn't accept the fact
that he was the one that got everybody busted.
He just couldn't accept it.
His ego wouldn't let him.
So the other thing, when I remember when I'm back
to the very beginning of the podcast,
when I talked about calling the detective.
Yeah.
So the homicide detective.
The detective that you called who said,
you're Matt Cox, the common man?
Yeah, you're Matt Cox, the common man.
So when he called, when the main detective,
the one that wasn't home, was at home that day,
he called me back.
He's like, hey, Mr. Cox.
And as we are talking, I'm telling him,
look, why don't you call the US attorney?
He's like, I've called the US attorney.
He, you know, he won't do it.
You know how this works.
You know, he's like, you've been through the system.
You know how this works.
I've watched your podcast.
I mean, he's telling me all this.
I'm like, I'm sitting there thinking to it.
Wish Danny was here.
How do you record these things?
Yeah, I wish he was there too, Matt.
Hilarious.
So I'm talking to him and I said, and he said,
he said, listen, I said, well, and I go, so I guess,
I go, so is it, is it, I go, well, why don't you just
indict the guy anyway?
Go see him.
He's like, he said, I mean, you've got two guys
that are willing to say that he pled guilty.
I said, plus you've got, you've got all the evidence.
Plus I said, and he sat there and he goes,
he said, we actually have more than that.
I go, what do you mean?
He said, he goes, we actually have a third inmate
that, that Juan Garcia in an after,
after Chris was moved to Coleman,
Juan was moved to another prison at the other prison
another inmate contacted the homicide detectives
and said that Juan Garcia also confessed to him.
You have three inmates, two are completely separate prisons
that he has admitted that he murdered this guy.
And all of these guys are saying, look,
just promise to get me out of prison.
You can't leave me in prison to get killed, you know,
or my family, you gotta get me out of prison.
They're saying, ah, fuck it.
They're gonna let a murderer go free.
And here's, you know, remember we were talking
about all the different evidence and stuff?
Tell you right now, here's, this is, hold on.
So why don't they indict Juan?
Because, well, because the guys are saying,
they're not gonna talk unless you get me out of prison.
You can't, their fear is, I testify, I testify,
but they already have it.
They already have what Chris gave them.
Chris told them that he confessed.
Right, but it was just, it was very quickly.
It wasn't like a formal, they come in,
they've got two people there, they write it up,
they put it in evidence, they indict him.
Once they indict him and Juan finds out,
these guys are subject to be murdered.
Right now, there's nothing.
And these guys are saying, we won't cooperate,
we won't testify.
Like if you indict him, I'm not testifying.
Got it, got it.
So they're like, we can't get the U.S. attorney to,
or the, sorry, the state, the attorney to,
the district attorney to file a grand jury
because these guys are saying they won't testify.
So we're not gonna indict this guy,
these guys are saying they won't.
It's a whole thing, but here, this is,
while they were talking, at 1.1 actually wrote down,
he's talking about Kuko, by the way, remember his partner?
Yeah. Yeah.
He actually writes down that Kuko had 500 kilos were lost
and there were two murders that Kuko had committed.
Here, he says 500 kilos, and then he also says,
so you say 850, or something like that,
what was he, 200 kilos, what's the other kilos?
385. 385.
That's over 1300 kilos and two murders.
And that's all that's in Juan's handwriting.
So it's a two-bodyo.
Two bodies. Oh, bodies.
Bodyos. Maybe that's Spanish.
It's my handwriting, I didn't write bodyos, bodies.
Did I spell it wrong?
Or is it just bad handwriting?
It looked like a bad handwriting.
I thought it was like a Spanish writing.
I thought it was like a Spanish writing.
There's an I in there for sure.
Maybe he, oh, he spelled bodies, B-O-D-I-E-S.
Yeah.
What am I missing an I?
Wow.
So do you think they want to indict him
because he's already locked up?
There's no point in, they don't want,
no, he'll be getting out soon.
Juan will eventually be getting out.
Remember, he's working on that 25 piece,
but at this point, he's,
I don't know how, well, now he's got,
he does have about five to 10 more years.
Five to 10 more years.
So they're not indicting him
because they don't have people to testify,
to really prove their case.
Right, because they simply won't let these guys
out of jail for two years early, three years early.
So they're gonna let this guy out instead.
This guy's gonna get out.
He killed somebody in front of two kids.
What's the point?
I don't understand.
What's the point?
Why is it just like, is it just like lost
in the bureaucracy of the federal government
and they just don't care?
Right, the homicide, the homicide detectives, furious.
He's very upset.
He's like, I want this salt-listed homicide.
If you're a homicide detective, you've reached,
that's like the pinnacle.
Like that's the top spot.
Homicide detectives are passionate.
They don't care about anything.
I don't care about drugs.
They care about the worst possible crime
that's ever been committed,
that can be committed on a human being, which is murder.
Right, and they wanna solve it.
They wanna solve it.
This guy's saying, he said, I wanna solve it.
He's like, this guy was murdered in front of his wife
and two kids.
I want this salt.
He's like, I can't do it by myself.
I neither need these guys to say they will testify,
in which case now they might get murdered,
or I need, and they'll only say that
if the U.S. attorney says, we'll cut you loose.
Yeah.
That's it.
And the U.S. attorney could probably-
Who is the U.S. attorney?
I have it in here.
I don't know.
I don't know his name.
I have it in the file and those things.
Yeah, it doesn't make sense.
Who is the U.S. attorney?
I mean, it's probably one of a million fucking cases
they're dealing with, you know?
And if they don't got a hundred percent fucking evidence.
U.S. attorney's office.
This is longer.
Yeah, all of this is on the-
Is it the current sitting U.S. attorney
right now at this moment?
Yeah, but this is in like,
this is in like Chicago or California or wherever.
Oh, no, no, this is somewhere in, I think.
I don't know, man.
I don't, I can't track this down.
I insist you're killing me.
I just think it'd be good to know for people listening.
Oh my God, assistant.
So there's, how many U.S. attorneys are there?
Department of Justice.
Steve Meyer, is that his name?
Steve Meyer?
The U.S. attorney named Stephen Meyer.
Yeah, Stephen Meyer, Meyer.
Steve's up to something.
Meyer.
Stephen J. Meyer, sole practitioner,
dedicated exclusively to the representation
of individual citizens accused of crimes in the state.
Well, wait a minute.
In federal court, he was recently named best lawyer.
That sounds like a lawyer, yeah.
Yeah, that's a defense attorney.
That's not a U.S. attorney.
Department of Justice.
Yeah, oh, okay.
Department of Justice.
Yeah, Stephen J. Meyer.
Which, what district is it?
District of California.
Oh, okay.
District of California.
Oh, okay, cool.
I was right.
California.
Well, I mean, the murder was in California.
Right.
Well, the drug case, I think the drug case
was connected also out of Chicago.
When I've been in Chicago and,
and I know it might've just been L.A.
His, says the North District of California.
Right.
Yeah.
What the fuck's this guy up to?
I know there's definitely a connect.
What's Stephen Meyer up to?
There's a connection between that and Chicago.
I know that.
So how much time does Juan have left, you mean?
You said he's got like five or 10?
Five or 10.
What's Chris got left?
He's only got a couple?
About three, four.
About three more years.
Yeah.
Is he still pursuing any of this stuff or?
I mean, that's basically why he let me do the podcast
is because he's kind of like.
Is he still in Coleman?
It's over.
It's not gonna happen.
At least they let him stay in Coleman,
if anything, he got that.
Yeah, I mean, he's rather being Coleman
than in, listen, a low security prison in California
is, it's like a medium here.
Probably even worse than the medium here.
I mean, these guys, it's like 80% cartel members.
And you know, they're just ruthless.
Ruthless, there's a whole bunch of money
and it's all about pride and respect.
And that can go bad real, real quick.
Especially when half these guys are bipolar.
I mean, you could glance at me and think,
oh, you disrespected me?
Just because mentally, you're just off.
I've seen that happen in a medium over and over again.
I've seen a guy get stabbed
because he had been with this guy, Selly,
for like two years.
And he said, one day I walked out of the room
and I walked by him and he said,
I didn't acknowledge him and go, what's up?
He was, we always go, what's up, what's up?
He was, I happen to be doing something.
I walked right by him
and I just kind of glanced at him and kept walking.
So throughout the day, his Selly was bipolar.
He turned that into a completely disrespectful,
he disrespected me, he didn't acknowledge me,
he didn't this, he didn't, and these guys were in the pen.
And he said, by the end of that day,
he said, I went into the TV room,
his Selly walked up behind him with a fucking,
with a knife and stabs him.
Jesus.
Cause in his mind.
Yeah.
Is that what that's called bipolar?
Yeah.
When you take shit like that, like way too literal.
Well, I mean, you're just extremes.
You're either low, like you're totally depressed
and you're angry and furious.
Or you take nothing to make it something crazy.
Right, right, or you turn nothing
into something insane.
Yeah, or you go ballistic in your,
yeah.
Or, you know, it could be,
you could be furious for no reason
or you could be ecstatic for no reason.
Like, this is amazing, this is,
and you're like, bro, it's chocolate milk.
They're giving us chocolate milk today.
Man, it's so much chocolate milk,
it's the best thing ever, is it?
Yeah.
Or you could go completely the opposite direction.
I mean, it's just, it's just you,
the problem is you're either at one pole or the other.
Right.
You know, that's the problem.
You're constantly shifting.
Amadeo is a rapid shifting, a rapid cycling bipolar.
He does it constantly up, down, up, down, up, down.
I mean, we're not talking about like for hours,
like there are some bipolar will be up for days
and then they'll, or they'll be depressed
and they can't get out of bed for a week.
But rapid bias is all day long, up, down, up, down, up, down.
Yeah.
Fuck.
Crazy people, man.
I'm telling you, Amadeo can drink,
he'll drink Pepsi like caffeine
and it'll keep him maintaining that high level.
So he doesn't cycle constantly.
He gets up and it stays,
but then it eventually comes down.
Yeah.
Oh.
How horrible, what a horrible situation.
It sounds exhausting.
Now we're talking about mental disorders.
I wanted to tell you, or I wanted to talk about,
I had your buddy on the podcast last week.
All right, right, right.
Mark.
Mark Leda.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, he is.
Fucking super, super interesting, passionate guy.
Did you run that?
Did you play that yet?
No, I haven't published it yet.
It's getting published this Sunday.
Did he talk to you about where he does his things,
his podcast?
Yeah, he told me it's on Skid Row.
He also has a studio in New York.
You've never been here, bro.
You've never, there's no Skid Row like in,
because I went there, you know, I went there.
He did mine.
Yeah.
There's nothing in Florida that's like this.
What do you mean?
It's like, it's like a, what you would think of as a,
like a refugee camp.
Like the street is lined with,
and I don't mean like, I don't mean like a block.
We mean blocks and blocks and blocks and blocks in LA,
which is just lined with like tents and boxes
and people have built houses out of boxes
and they live in them
and they're up against the chain link fences
and there's just people everywhere.
There's sleeping bags everywhere
and they're sleeping and they're shitting on the street
and it's, there are hookers out there
and there are drug addicts
and there's their shooting drugs
and they're yelling and screaming
and it's nothing, sirens constantly hear sirens.
And that's why when I had seen his videos
and I actually had watched the videos,
you could hear sirens.
Yeah, in the background.
And I always thought,
cause he'd be interviewing like a prostitute
or a heroin addict.
I always thought, oh, this guy, he had a disorder.
He dubbed it.
He didn't.
You can hear him outside.
So what was it like when you were walking up to a studio?
Like he obviously gave you the address, right?
You met him there?
No, he gave me the address.
He picked me up because he was like,
he goes, it's gonna probably,
it might be hard to get an Uber here.
He goes, let me, and I didn't understand.
Yeah.
Okay.
Oh, you could pick me up.
That's nice.
Yeah, because Uber's probably not gonna drop you off.
He had to drive you through a zombie apocalypse
to get to his studio.
So when he pulls up, as soon as he gets out,
they're all asking him for money.
No, you know what's so funny?
This is something I noticed.
Nobody ever asked me for money.
None of the home, I've been to San Francisco.
I've been to, there was like five lawyers
I went to San Francisco with.
Me and one other lawyer, nobody ever asked us for money.
The other guys, they just bombarded them asking for money.
Nobody ever asked me for money.
Huh.
It was just weird.
It was like, the other guys were like,
how come they're always bugging me?
They're always this?
I mean, you're standing right here, you know?
And I don't know why.
Yeah, because they're like, look at this guy.
He's coming to steal our soles.
Don't even look at this guy.
Yeah, I was like, listen, I'm making deal.
You want to make 100 bucks?
Mm-hmm.
But yeah, as soon as I got out,
they started just hammering him, hammering him.
I'm just standing there, nobody saying anything to me.
And then we walk in, we go in the thing, he locks up,
and puts the drapes down and everything.
I sit on the stool and I do a whole podcast
with him for like an hour and a half, two hours.
I think it's got like 200,000,
over, I think it's coming up on 300,000 subscribers
or something like that.
Views?
Or views, views subscribers.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
That's wild.
It's a, hold on.
So, soft white underbelly cocks.
That's how you search it.
You just talk to the phone.
There it is.
Got 300 and, 315,000 views two months ago.
Wow.
Hell yeah.
How did you hear about him?
I look horrible.
How did you, how did you find out about that guy?
How did you, I look better than this, I think, I feel it.
How?
Yeah.
I think it's a good portrait.
Real, no way.
Are you staying?
Let me see it, let me see it.
They should have Luke designed it.
Oh yeah, he should have.
He tries to make you look,
Luke would have put a big hat on him.
He, the lighting and probably some filters
that he uses really accentuates the wrinkles
and the details in your face.
Thank you, Danny.
Thank you.
It really undermines your plastic surgery.
I am 51.
My lighting makes you look beautiful, I think.
I do look, listen, I was very happy when I remember
I came back and I finally, you came up and I saw it,
I was like, oh, I look good.
Hell yeah.
Danny told me, he's like, no, you'll be fine.
No, how did you find out about that guy?
I don't know, I don't know, is his,
oh, Michael Frisiski, you know what I'm talking about?
Or is it, yeah, Michael.
Wasowski.
No, he's a famous mobster,
he's like made the most money out of any mobster ever.
He ran a gasoline scam or something.
He's got a Frisiski or something like that.
Frisiski.
Is that it?
Yeah, the guy who was in the mafia?
Yeah, I just said Michael Frisiski.
Who was part of like, they did like good fellas.
He was like part of that story and shit.
The guy lives in Florida?
Frisiski?
Frisiski.
Yeah, yeah.
Vlad does interviews with him all the time.
Really?
Oh, all the time.
He's got his own channel.
Well, Vlad chops him up one interview into like 10 videos,
but that's horrible.
Yeah, he does Vlad.
Don't say that, that's so rude.
What, that he's horrible?
Yeah, that's mean, what do you mean?
Bro, I'm not being mean, I'm just, I did it, I've done.
We've talked about this before, haven't we?
Because he didn't, he doesn't know the story, he was.
He big shot at Matt in the interview.
He's not there.
Oh yeah, you're right, he's on TV.
He's on a TV and he's asking me questions
and he's like, oh, okay, so, and then you got arrested
and then he got up and walked away.
So I'm staring at a couch.
Do I, what happened?
Do I keep telling you?
Yeah, it's very awkward.
Yeah, it was like, well, now who am I talking to?
It was just, I mean, he did it like two or three times
and he was like, no, just keep talking
and got up and walked off, so.
Yeah, yeah, that's whack.
Back to what we were talking about, Mark Leda.
He was down here and that's him.
That's Michael, is it Michael?
That's a Vlad thumbnail right there.
Yeah.
That's funny.
He's got, he just started his own channel.
But, wait, wait, hold on.
Yeah, he was part of like, he was in the movie Godfellas.
They portrayed him in God, or Goodfellas.
He's 293,000 subscribers.
Wow, who Vlad, oh, Mike.
He's big time.
That's crazy, man.
He does like Mobster Monday.
Yeah.
And he's got like a whole thing.
He does a lot of shit.
He's famous in the mob world, for sure.
Crime is like a big thing on the internet.
True crime.
It's a big niche.
Anyways, Mark Leda, he was down here for a week
every single day filming interviews
with pedophiles and sex offenders.
And he's like, have you ever heard about this village
over here?
It's a, I forgot what he said.
Park.
It's a park, it's a trailer park.
Yeah, where all the fucking, where all the pedos live.
It's full of pedophiles.
And I was like, I didn't even know
that was a fucking thing.
Matt was trying to fucking put money in on one.
Mike was telling us.
I'm like, that's what Matt was telling us
about a couple weeks ago.
I didn't know.
I thought that you were like innovating that.
But that was apparently a thing where they keep pedophiles.
They keep people who have been convicted of sex crimes.
They're not even being kept there.
They're voluntarily living there.
They're voluntarily living there
because they just have nowhere to live.
It's like, no one wants them to live in their neighborhood.
If you can't, you can't rent a normal place.
If you have, they do background check on you.
If you want to rent an apartment somewhere.
You can't be near schools or nothing.
Right, so what happens is obviously the window
of where they can live gets smaller and smaller.
And then those few places you go,
okay, well, yeah, you could live here.
Yeah, but they won't rent to me.
Cause then they go, you know, they pull your background
or they do something.
They go, hell no.
You're fucking pedophiles.
Right.
You can't live here.
Fuck no.
So they advertise somewhere.
I don't know how the fuck.
How did they get there?
I'm sure the word gets around.
Oh, I was just thinking that.
It's all word and mouth, yeah.
The federal probation officers
and state probation officers will easily try
and direct them anywhere they know somebody will rent.
Yeah, this is where all the pedos are living.
That's a real, that's, so that's a niche in real estate.
You can open fucking.
We might have to call Ben.
Pedophile, pedophile housing.
I would love to go, go to Ben Mala and pitch that idea.
Wow, that would be amazing.
I can't believe I've never heard of that though.
I mean, I can't do it.
Because nobody wants to do it.
Who would do it?
Nobody wants to do it.
Look, and here's what, what really kills me is that
the amount of money in it is, is huge
because, you know, these guys have nowhere to go.
So they're gonna pay their rent.
Yeah.
You know, and, and the, the, the issue is
that people are so passionate about not dealing with them
and not helping them in any way
that they don't want them to live here.
They don't want to live here.
They don't want to invest.
So you're never gonna have like, like in my homes
or post, you know, post-departments
or, or nobody's gonna come in and McDonaldize that
and turn it into something
because they just don't want anything to do.
Yeah, it's not a good look.
Most people don't want to be associated with them.
They don't want to be associated with it.
Even though the truth is by not giving them a place to stay,
you're causing them more anxiety
and thereby causing them more of a chance to, to re-offend.
So, because, you know, their, their anxiety levels up,
their stress level is up
and you're not monitoring them.
So you don't know where they're at.
Yeah, I think Mark actually told me that
out of all released, all convicted felons or whatever
sex offenders are the one type of criminal
who is least likely to re-offend.
Right.
Well, everybody says it's actually murders
or they're least murders.
But then it's like, it's like pedophiles.
Now people will tell you, oh, they always re-offend.
They actually do re-offend,
but they don't re-offend for sex crimes.
They end up re-offending for things like theft or drugs.
Right, drugs, because here's what happens is,
you know, like you can't get a job.
Right.
So they're not out doing, you know,
touching a kid necessarily,
but they commit another crime.
Why? Because I can't get a job
because I have no place to live.
They're a victim of the system now.
So right now, right.
And nobody has an exempted form.
Another thing Mark was explaining to me
is that like there's so much nuance
in the term sex offender.
Right.
And a lot of them are just people that were in the club
and were wasted and met the wrong girl
and didn't know their age or whatever.
And the next morning she was like,
oh my God, and fucking called the cops on this guy.
And now he's a sex offender for life
and can't rent an apartment.
They're not all child molesters.
Right.
Yeah.
I know a lot of them do a lot of fucked up shit.
Oh, there's some super fucking weirdos, bro.
But it's just insane that this guy's flying
across the country on his own dime.
He also said none of his videos are monetized.
Well, I think his channel's monetized,
but nobody wants to, who wants to,
if you're a business, hey, go ahead and put me
on that channel with that prostitute.
Hey, you're the guy that talked to that heroin addict
the other day and that pimp, definitely get me on him.
Let's put a Coca-Cola ad on that guy.
Yeah, that's not happening.
No, so it's funny, but that's what's interesting about it
is that he's still throwing so much of his time and money
into these videos, flying across the country to interview,
whatever, he interviewed probably 20 sex offenders
down here, a mile from here.
But that's not all, that makes it sound really fucked up.
It is really fucked up.
Right, but no, I'm saying most of his stuff
is like people on Skid Row, like there's prostitutes.
For sure.
There's heroin addicts, there's drug dealers,
there's pimps, there's meth addicts.
So he's going after a segment of society
that kind of the same thing you told me
when we first met, remember?
And I was like, why do you do this?
Why do you do the podcast?
And you go, there's just a whole segment of society
that doesn't have a voice.
And I thought it'd be cool to set up a format
where people had like a voice.
And then you started telling me about deck hands.
You were like, I do this thing called deck hands.
This was like over a year ago.
Do this thing called deck hands.
And you're like, and I'm like, yeah,
but they're all like drug addicts and stuff.
And you were like, well, yeah,
but a lot of them were endearing.
Like you seemed, I remember you seemed at that moment.
I remember when I left there, I was like,
he's really passionate about that.
He's really passionate.
Now I know you're just kind of a dickhead.
But at that point, I was very impressed with you
for about two months.
And then I got to know you.
And then I realized this guy,
he had me with the deck hands, Danny.
Sales pitch work.
Right, it was great.
You got me for another point.
No, it is, what I did with deck hands
is almost the same thing that he's doing,
minus all the music and the editing.
He just does like a raw uncut interview.
He's, yeah, I was gonna say,
he's actually making me want to do more deck hands
to style things just by like getting to know him
and watching his content.
It's like really inspired me, I think,
to go back and do some of that stuff.
Yeah, and he's, the cinematography is really good.
But they're really, yeah, yeah.
But it's no Danny Jones film.
I don't know.
I mean, I don't know what it takes to do that,
but I like the look.
He's using a studio with lighting.
He's got different camera angles.
It's got a very good look.
Yeah, very cinematic looking,
but it's, they're on tripods, right?
All the cameras are just locked up on tripods.
There's not like anything moving or...
He actually, one of the, the one on the ground,
he actually like laid on the ground.
Like, I mean, it's off the ground like this,
and it's shooting up at you,
and he's laying on the ground looking at the whole time,
going, what about this?
The whole time he was laying on...
Really?
Yeah, and the place is disgusting.
He says he uses it as a storage unit
to store like furniture and stuff.
Yeah, there's stuff, there's tons of,
you can't see all that
because he's got these massive drapes,
and those drapes are, well, they're not drapes.
What are they called?
Curtains.
Oh, I thought there was some kind of like the backdrop.
The cloth or whatever black background.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, but they're super thick,
and they go up like 20 feet.
I mean, they're massive.
Is that how tall the ceiling is in that room?
Yeah, wow.
And everything's concrete.
I mean, it's a storage unit.
It's like, it's, yeah, but it's,
and I remember he actually had to run around the place.
Like he was like, you know, listening and listening,
he goes, just give me a couple of, I'll find out.
And I was like, what is it?
There was a cricket that was in there somewhere,
and he was trying to track down the cricket.
Really?
You think he would just like let it roll like that?
I couldn't, yeah.
You don't mind the guys in the background
screaming on the outside, you know,
yelling at each other over a crack rocket
or the sirens going by, but the cricket's bothering you.
Yeah, that's weird, right?
Yeah.
He's a very nice guy, very passionate.
You know, a lot of those...
Yeah, I love that guy.
He's one of those people, he actually set up
like Patreon accounts and stuff for them
to try and help them.
Oh yeah, he told me about one of the prostitutes.
Yeah.
He's just tried to help her.
He tried and get her off the street,
trying this, trying that, it was like, crazy.
Yeah, he said he like reduced everything,
all the, he says he's done over like 2,500 interviews
with these drug addicts and prostitutes and pimps
and all these crazy people.
Did he tell you about the girlfriend?
I think I told you about the girlfriend.
He broke up with a girlfriend because she was saying,
you have to cut back on the interviews
and start spending more time with her.
He told me the story about his first wife.
I don't know.
No, this was a girlfriend.
Okay.
Cause this was another one.
I don't know about the wife.
This was one that had just happened when I was there.
And she was like, look, just drop back a little bit
so you can spend more time with me.
And he said, I can't do that.
And she's like, well, then we're gonna have to stop
seeing each other.
He's like, okay.
And she's like, he's like this...
He's maniacally, he's a maniac with how obsessed he is with it.
He's obsessed with it.
He, it's all he does every day, all day
from sun up to sundown.
But here's the thing about that, you know,
but like the world needs guys like that.
Does that make sense?
Like I'm not gonna do it.
No, it's not gonna be me.
It's not gonna be me.
Me neither.
But the world needs somebody to join the Peace Corps.
I'm not doing it.
Yeah.
But thank, but God bless those people.
You know what I'm saying?
But it ain't gonna be me.
But I want those people to be there.
Yeah.
And he's that guy.
He says that out of the 2,500 plus interviews
that he's done, he said the one common denominator
with all of them is just fucked up childhoods.
Just like, loser parents.
Sure, sure.
You know, he told me after he interviewed me,
he goes, after he interviewed me, he said,
yeah, I'm definitely gonna use this.
I'm definitely using this.
This is amazing.
This is a great interview.
Oh yeah, he throws a lot of them away.
Yeah.
And I looked at him and I went, were you not?
Was that possible?
You weren't gonna use it?
And he goes, and he looked at me and he goes,
oh yeah, he said, I'll interview five, six, seven people
and maybe use one.
And I went, I didn't want to mention that
in case I wasn't gonna use it, but yours was great.
And I was thinking, fuck, the hell.
And the amount of money that he pays a lot of people to,
like a lot of people, he told me some of these sex offenders,
like they don't want to tell, they don't want to air out
that, like how they touched their kids when they were.
Oh man.
And he gets these people to like full on confess.
Well, I mean, I can see, this is what's so funny is,
I can see saying something in this format
that you wouldn't say in everyday life
because at that level, you're never gonna get
this opportunity again.
Like your life is that just down to nothing.
And if someone is finally saying to you,
despite everything you've done,
your story's important and I want to document it.
What do you do?
Do you try and spin it?
There's no way to spin your heroin addict
because you're only here because you're a sex offender.
You're gonna have to say that.
And so that, you know, I guess.
It's meaningful, it's meaningful for them.
For them, for some of them, I'm sure they just fucking,
they just finally admit to stuff they probably
did not, been denying their entire life.
Yeah, right.
Plus they're getting a fat wad of cash.
They are, yeah, I didn't get anything.
Yeah, he's an amazing guy.
Yeah, super cool guy.
I can't wait to.
What about the CIA guy?
I got a CIA guy.
Did you call him?
Yeah, oh yeah, he's gonna come on the podcast.
He's coming on.
He's so cool.
He was in St. Pete.
He should be, I don't know what he's ever done.
Probably, probably he's never done.
He's probably just sat behind a desk his whole life.
No, I'm just joking.
He's actually a, he's actually like a field guy
or was a field guy.
But you look at this guy, you'll see when you look at him,
he looks like what you think a CIA agent should look like.
Really?
He could be, he could be anything.
He could be white.
He could be Middle Eastern.
He could be Spanish.
He could be Italian.
Wait till you see this guy.
You're gonna be like, I don't know what nationality you are.
I think he speaks a bunch of different languages.
He's extremely articulate, good-looking.
I mean, I'm telling you, he'd get all the secrets out of you.
Hell yeah.
So funny.
Out of all the people Matt tries to introduce me to,
all these people, he always finds a way to throw in the fact
that this person is good-looking.
I mean, this dude is, this dude is so good-looking.
You need to have him on the podcast
because he's fucking good-looking.
I'm trying to help you out.
He's beautiful.
I never said beautiful.
Throw beautiful.
I reached out and I just touched his face.
You're so soft-skinned.
There's a chick.
In Commissary, they called her Commissary Barbie
because she was this blonde and she sat behind the window.
She was a meanest snake.
She'd always be yelling, get so into it.
No, I'm not doing it.
Can you return this?
I don't want this ice cream.
That's all you get.
I mean, she yelled.
And I remember this one inmate one time,
she was yelling and he goes, shh.
She put the thing right up against the plastic.
Can't touch her.
She's behind plastic.
And she goes, get him outta here.
We were dying laughing.
You had to be there, bro.
It was so funny.
Oh my God.
Yo, what were you and Boziak doing?
You sent me all that.
Can you talk about?
You sent me the bunch of videos of,
you were hanging out in some sort of mansion in Jacksonville.
It was pretty cool, bro.
It was pretty cool.
Matt's like living on the high horse, right?
He is, he deserves it.
Just that there's a production company
that actually contacted me.
I don't wanna get specifics.
I was told not to get specific on certain things.
So there was a production company
that contacted me on another story.
Once we reviewed the story,
the producer came back and she was like,
okay, where are the chances I can get this guy on film?
And I was like, you can't.
That was a big problem.
I was like, look, do you understand?
You're a documentary company,
you're doing documentaries.
I said, you understand you can't get this guy on film.
He's in federal prison.
It's just, oh no, I can get in there and get him.
I said, no, you can't.
No, no, we've done it before.
I said, no, you've done it in the state.
Who are they trying to get?
Donovan Davis, remember the gap?
So they were looking into it and she was telling me,
no, I said, no, you cannot get prison.
You cannot get a video camera into a federal prison.
And so once she looked into it, she came back.
She says, you know what, you're right.
I can't.
She says, I went to your website though
and I looked at some of the other stories.
What do you think like the top three, four best stories are?
And I named off a few of them, I said,
but one of the best ones I think is either Frank Amadeo.
I said, which you may or may not get is cooperation.
I said, or John Boziak.
I said, which is a story called Ben,
which is on my website, Matt Cox inside True Crime.
It'll be linked in the description.
So I told her, and so she went and she listened to that
and she's like, this story is amazing.
She sent it to her director.
I'm not linking shit in the description.
Then she contacted, then she ordered his book.
Then she read the book, then she came back
and she said, can I talk to Boziak?
I said, sure, here's his information.
She contacts Boziak, whatever,
like a month or two later, Boziak calls me and says,
you know, I've talked to these people two or three times.
I was like, really?
He goes, yeah, they want to like do all this kind of stuff.
I think you should call them
because I have a contract with them.
You know, I own the intellectual property for his story.
So you're not talking to Boziak unless I'm involved.
So I ended up calling her and saying,
hey, look, you know this and then she's like,
oh, okay, yeah, well, I'm sure John will keep you informed.
I was like-
Welcome to Hollywood, Matt Cox.
Yeah, well, I was like, no, no, you don't understand.
I said, I have a contract with him.
I own the intellectual property for the story, so.
Go ahead, have your lawyer call our lawyer.
And she was like, oh, wait a sec.
Okay, of course, I didn't know I wasn't trying to do it.
No, she was like, okay, so she's like,
oh, here's what's happening.
So they were put together a whole thing
and she's super cool too.
I'm not, I'm just fucking around mostly, kind of.
But so what happened was they ended up renting,
like they love the idea, right?
Of doing like a one hour,
what do they call it?
They called it a-
A pilot?
No, they did a sizzle.
So they did a, that's what they did at the mansion.
They rented this mansion, they flew in all their crew.
Their crew read the book.
They bought the book and ordered the book
and had all the crew that they typically work with.
And then they asked the crew to donate their time.
And they said, look, if we end up selling it,
we'll hire you.
But as of right now, we need you to just donate your time.
They all donated their time,
which I thought was a mate, right?
Yeah.
Well, you can take a page out of their book, man.
I'm telling you.
So they all come down.
It's inside true crime.
They all come down and they shoot the video for five days.
They shoot the sizzle reel
and they're gonna cut all that up,
but they basically got the bulk of the interviews done
for him.
So they would turn that into,
and they'll still have to interview him some more,
but they basically would turn that into like a one hour,
I think he said 52 minute documentary,
but like a doc you draw them
where they'll do reenactments.
Yeah.
And it was just super cool.
What was super cool about it was this,
was that that guy, like the vision that he had
for the whole thing was,
so it was like everything that I would want it to be
that I couldn't even imagine.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, it's kind of like Steve Jobs.
Like I didn't know I couldn't live with that on iPhone
until Steve Jobs told me.
I just showed me why I couldn't.
I mean, that's how I, like I watched that video.
I was like, that is everything I wanted it to be
and 10 times more than I could have imagined.
I mean, just the guy has a great vision for the whole thing
and it's so over the top gaudy, but it looks amazing.
He looks great.
Can I see it?
Well, I mean, as soon as they sent it to me,
I only got to see little bits and pieces.
Like they were working on it and the music
and everything about it was cool.
They just showed you like on the laptop or whatever.
Yeah, they showed me.
Like they had those red cameras.
So they had the, and they're like 40, 50,000 a piece.
They had like three of those.
They have scaffolding.
It was amazing.
So they're putting the whole thing together.
And then if they end up eventually, you know,
selling it to a streaming network of some sort,
then they'll turn it into like a one hour thing
with reenactments and everything.
So it was just super cool.
And I was up there and I'm an executive producer.
I don't know what that means.
Hell yeah.
I'm sure your contract looks a lot like the contract
that the federal government gave your lawyer friend.
We'll consider.
We'll consider it.
If we sell it to Netflix, we'll consider it.
So they...
We'll have Deverelli consider your payment.
Trust me.
That's what a lot of the Hollywood contracts look like.
Yeah, they were, it was pretty cool.
I mean, it was, it was a cool experience.
I was glad I went and I'm hoping they do something with,
and John was there and John, you know, he was loving it.
He was loving it, but he said some like,
he says crazy shit.
Like, I mean, and they would ask him the same questions
over and over and over.
And then he eventually would get,
would say something just nutty
and they'd be like, that's perfect.
Hey, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They'd finally get him to say some juicy shit.
Something nut, yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, it was cool, super cool.
I find it so funny though that it's like,
hey Cox, what's your top three stories
that people won't click on?
We wanna try to sell some Netflix shows.
We wanna try to sell some shows to fucking star
or whatever.
That's the process is so...
Oh, it's, it's...
Yeah, it's, you know, and that's not the first.
Obviously, you know, I had a bunch of stuff going
before COVID, but you know, it didn't happen.
And I'm still working.
They're just betting at this point.
They're just like, they're just fucking betting
on something that they can sell.
They're basically salespeople.
Right.
Well, there, you know, here's the thing though,
like the fact that the crew,
what was great about the crew too,
was like the crew, like when I got there,
they're like enamored with me.
Like they've all watched,
it's like you're a celebrity walking.
I know, and you know I'm just some douchebag,
like I'm nobody.
But I walk in, they're all like...
You're not a douchebag.
They're all like...
Oh fuck, Matt Cox.
There he is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Was it really?
It wasn't that bad.
But they were like, I'd start talking
and like four of them would like,
and they'd be like, well, then what happened?
And you were in the prison, were you worried?
No.
It was a low, I was fine.
So, oh, so nobody gets hurt there?
Oh no, people get hurt, but if you get stabbed
in federal prison, it's because you had it coming.
You know, and then Boziak, he says crazy shit.
And they all love him.
They loved him.
They just thought he was...
Keep in mind, these are guys that are like
upper middle class kids.
Right, they never touch anything from that world.
They've never changed a tire.
So, they got decent grades at the private school,
then they ended up going to film school
because they wanna make movies.
And now they're making,
now they're a part of the thing
and they're working their way up.
So, they've never run from the cops.
They've never been arrested.
They've never gone to prison.
They've never done this.
They've never committed crimes.
They've never borrowed a million dollars
or swiped credit cards or manufactured this
or gotten fake IDs and they've never done nothing.
James Bond shit, they've never done none of it.
So, they just think you're amazing.
So, yeah, it was pretty cool.
So, here's what I'm doing.
Remember I told you the paintings?
I'm doing 12 paintings?
Yeah.
10 of them are for...
For your Patreon?
No, no, 10 of them are for the crew.
Oh, cool.
So, each one of them, I'm gonna send them a painting.
And it says, get a white boy,
which is what they were calling it.
They're calling the sizzle reel.
And then it has half of Boziak's mug shot.
And they're all more like crazy colors,
like real neon colors.
And then the other two,
one of those is for the Patreon, right?
So, for the Patreon guy that I owe the Patreon thing to.
And then the other one,
then I'll have one other one,
and I'll probably just sell that one.
Oh, I'd love to frame it and keep it myself, but...
You know.
The bills are coming.
But I thought I could knock it out in two days
and I'm on like day four.
And it's like this was way more than I thought
than I had expected.
It's gonna be pretty cool.
Maybe we get a Matt Cox painting to replace this thing.
We got it at the flea market.
I could knock out some.
We could get, you think we get a Matt Cox painting
for the studio here?
No.
You know why you could?
No, I don't think we could do that.
I mean, I'm just telling you, you know why you could?
How?
How could I do that?
Because I actually have a bunch of canvases
that some friend of my friend, Stacy,
or the chicks, Stacy, you met Stacy?
Yeah.
Okay, Stacy has a client that retired
and he wants to be an artist.
He bought a bunch of canvases and painted on them.
But he's kind of learning
and he realized that he didn't really like
these types of canvases.
He wants to go with canvas board.
So he's got these canvases
that basically have some primer and stuff on them.
He doesn't want them.
He gave them to me.
You just paint over them.
So he gave them to me.
Oh, perfect.
So I have canvases that I can go
and do something real quick like in a day and knock out.
Oh, nice.
I wouldn't charge you anything
because it'd be advertising.
But I could do that because the problem is is
you do a, if I have a painting itself for 500 bucks
and it's four foot by three foot,
I probably have a hundred bucks into it.
Yeah.
You know, people don't realize that.
Oh, you just made 500.
No, I didn't.
Yeah.
Plus I had to go drive there.
I didn't get the thing out of come back.
I didn't get it right.
What the hell?
So, but yeah, I had those things.
I could do something that says concrete on it.
Yeah, that'd be cool.
Do whatever you want.
I could do something I could do.
I could do something like with the thing
where I do like half of Danny's face
and it says like concrete or something.
Snitch.
Snitch.
Ratt.
It's like a half Danny, half rat.
Half rat.
That would be perfect.
Oh, fuck.
We could do Ben, a silhouette of Ben in the background
with the belly.
Oh, yeah.
Ben is saying that Danny's sitting on his knee.
In the background, Ben like this in the back,
with the eye.
With the rat sitting on his lap.
With the big belly of the rat sitting on his.
On his shoulder.
We're not just one on his stomach.
Yeah, yeah.
Ooh.
That's doing all that.
That's terrifying.
It also sounds like a lot of work.
Sounds like something I want in here.
I'm thinking half Danny's face.
I'm thinking that concrete.
I'm thinking that, no, no, no.
I don't want to say concrete.
That's kind of corny.
What?
You made it concrete.
Yeah, but I don't know.
I don't want the concrete on there.
Make something up.
What about the concrete?
I want you to get super stone.
We kind of just want to paint it.
I don't get super stone.
Get stone, he's on probation.
I don't get stone anyway.
You can't smoke weed, god damn it.
What if you get your medical card?
You could probably get a pass.
I got a pass when I was on probation for that.
But you have like a medical issue.
You really have one.
You just walk in there and say that you have problem
sleeping.
For real?
No, I'm not saying it's not.
That's not a weed guy anyway.
I'm not a weed.
I don't drink.
I don't drink.
You should try.
Have you tried smoking weed?
No.
You should try it, bro.
That's more like a CBD guy.
Yeah, but he should try smoking weed, don't you think?
You know the only thing I've ever really taken is.
I mean, I'm going to suggest that to everybody.
Oh, yeah.
Only thing I've ever done is take Xanax.
But I had a prescription.
Oh, yeah.
Now you're talking his language.
But I mean, I had a script.
Like I literally was having panic attacks.
This is when I was committing fraud.
I'm having panic attacks.
Oh, yeah, you're probably taking fucking Xans
to keep you off the edge.
This will be probably the greatest podcast of all time,
the most viewed podcast you've ever done.
If you got your medical card and we just got super baked
on a podcast together, it would be fucking amazing.
You know what I'm not doing?
You're going to get me locked up.
What are you doing?
And you do live paintings while we're high as fuck.
Imagine where it takes your artistry to another level.
It just gives you a whole new perspective.
You know what would take your artistry is like LSD.
Oh, yeah.
They say that it like completely rewires your brain.
Oh, yeah.
Like guys are like crazy.
Yeah, all the big artists used to do that.
Well, the most famous like renaissance era artists
were like super alcoholics, weren't they?
Like Van Gogh and Picasso.
Yeah, those guys had a lot of problems.
But like Dolly, he was definitely an LSD guy.
I haven't posted.
I'm going to post this when I get back.
It's probably tomorrow.
It says, I talk about scams with the money.
Like I haven't released it yet.
But I'm talking all about scams.
And I was thinking that might be that I was I told you
that I thought that would be cool to get like just Boziak.
Like you get Boziak, me and another fucking another scam
artist or Connors and just sit here and talk about different
scams for two or three hours.
Like, well, how would you get that?
Like I was telling Boziak, like he was like,
oh, you do this or do that.
And I go, where would you get the cards ordered?
Where would they get?
And he go, oh, I just have a mailed here.
I'm like, yeah, but what if this happens?
What if that happens?
He'd be like, well, yeah, well, where would you have a mail?
Like, well, I'd go and I'd get an abandoned house.
And I would, you know, so we'd have this whole open discussion
about how do you figure out this?
How do you figure that out?
Weren't you worried about that?
Well, no, here's why.
But I think because those types of discussions I had when I was
in prison with other con men, we're not talking about for 20
minutes.
We're not talking about for two or three days.
We're talking about, yeah, a hundred hours over the course
of two weeks, like five hours here, eight hours here,
10 hours here.
Really?
Well, how would you do this?
Well, I'd do this.
Well, what happens if they call here?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, I would get such and such and do this
and do, well, yeah, but they check it against this.
Oh, no, no, I would register it with the director.
You're like, man, I never thought about that.
Hell, yeah.
I mean, we would go on and on and there were guys would come
and sit, just sit around us and listen.
Hell, yeah.
Have you seen the, I just watched it our day.
Have you seen the, the movie they made about Ted Bundy?
Do you know what's funny?
With Zach Efron?
No, but you know what's funny?
Two people watched this.
What?
Probably you, you probably watched it.
No, when I was on, it was still processing when I left the
house.
I just checked it to see if it had finished processing or
uploading it and it has.
Huh.
Somebody got the notification.
Who has access to your YouTube channel?
Somebody has like permission.
Yeah, he saw it.
Really?
He never, he probably watched it.
Okay.
Twice.
Maybe, maybe he sent it to somebody.
Maybe, maybe, yeah.
Okay.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
You got to watch the scams, scams.
No, yeah, there's Ted Bundy, that Ted Bundy fucking thing on
Netflix.
I forget what it's called, but the Zach Efron, the Zach Efron
plays Ted Bundy and he's his own lawyer.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, he's fucking, he's fucking like really
cunning and smart and witty and it reminded me of you.
Cause he, he represented himself.
Well, the worst thing about him was that if you have ever
seen any interviews with him, how likable he was.
Right.
People loved it.
That's what they all say.
And you would have loved him.
He was super handsome.
He was girls.
Can we get him on the podcast?
I constantly dream about just, if I could just rub my
hands through your hair just once.
No, he had like, he had like groupie girls in the courtroom
when he was ridiculous.
And this guy murdered, I mean, how many people?
20 or 30?
It's like, and he was with, he was, he had a wife with who
had a daughter, a young daughter, and they had, you know,
Ted Bundy had a wife.
I don't remember that.
I don't think we're actually married, but he had a very
long-term girlfriend who already had a daughter and he had
like a great life with them.
He would always just go on these vacations.
He would always be like, I don't remember that.
I don't remember that.
I, I, I, this was at least in the movie that I saw.
Okay.
I'll watch the movie.
Yeah.
I remember he got like married in jail and shit.
No, no, that was a different girl.
That was a different, that was a previous girlfriend, but he
met this girl, um, at a bar, walked up to her and, uh, basically
took her home first night and he slept at her house.
She woke up the next morning and he's in the kitchen cooking
breakfast and her daughter, her little like four year old
daughter is sitting in her high chair eating, he's feeding the
daughter and he's like, Hey, he's like this, like happy go lucky
like guy.
And he's like nothing wrong.
He's like the perfect guy she could have ever met and they
lived there.
They lived their life.
They go on vacations together.
They studied together, but he's butchering the neighbors.
He's butchering the neighbors of it.
She doesn't find out until like way, way later.
It's fucking weird.
I watched the documentary on a guy that was just like, he was
killing prostitutes.
He's living with this chick and he's killing all these prostitutes
around the neighborhood and they eventually track him down and
she comes to him and they have him, they're on camera and she's
like, why did you do this?
Why did you do this?
And he starts crying and she's crying and he goes, I did it to
them so I wouldn't do it to you.
Like I didn't want to hurt you.
That's probably the same fucking thing.
It was like, I don't know what that means.
You know, he denied it to her.
Like Ted Bundy basically towards the end, like after he had
already gotten the death penalty and he like realized it's over.
He knows it's over.
Like she stopped talking to him and shit.
And she is like in like a mental prison because she's not in
prison, but she's like, when the whole thing started, they were
really like this, they were looking for his like Volkswagen bug.
Oh, yeah, that Volkswagen and classic.
No, that's I know the Volkswagen.
He used to, he used to put his arm in a sling and act like he was hurt.
And he would literally, he had a whole con thing going on.
We're sucking a man.
It was fucked up when they post, when the, when the investigators
made it public that they were looking for the Volkswagen.
She called in.
She's like, Hey, I want to report.
I know somebody who has this Volkswagen.
What will my name, will I be anonymous?
And she's like, it's his name is this, just put them on the list.
Like, Oh, well, we don't think that's him, but we'll put his name down.
What's your name?
And then she hangs up.
Anyways, he finally gets busted years later.
She never tells him that she initially called them and put his
name on this list of like a hundred people.
And she's like going through all this.
She doesn't know if she never talks to him for like 10 years.
She finally goes back like right before he goes into death row.
And she's like, just please, like, release me, release me of this burden.
I called in and I fucking gave him your name.
He's like, what?
And I'm probably, this is a major spoiler alert for anyone who hasn't watched it yet.
But well, I'll spoil it.
He dies.
Anyways, yeah, he dies, but this is a great, we all kind of know.
This is a fucking great ending.
Like you like, like the twist, the ending of it was all because of her bonkers.
And she's in there with a glass wall.
And this is like their last meeting and she's like, tell me why you do this.
And she brings in this photo that one of the investigators gave her years before
because she was like in denial that he had done this.
And she brings the photo.
She's like, I gave them your name.
Just tell me the truth.
Release me of this burden that's on my shoulders.
Like release me.
And he's like, I didn't do it.
And she pulls out the photo and it's a naked, decapitated woman.
She's like, why did you do, did you do this?
He's like, no, oh my God, what?
Tell me, just tell me the truth.
And like, it's this long dialogue between them.
And then at the end, he's like breaking down in tears and he's like,
he just writes the glass is like dusty and he just writes, he's like crying.
And with his fingers, he inscribes in the glass dust, he writes, hacksaw.
And then she fucking gets up and leaves and they take him away.
Dude, it's fucking insane.
It's so good.
What, he killed the chick in the picture with a hacksaw or something?
Basically, he's saying he cut her head off with a hacksaw.
But he didn't say it.
Yeah, yeah, because he didn't want it to be recorded or whatever.
I don't know, but it was a great fucking movie, bro.
And it's on Netflix now on Netflix.
Yeah, just type in Ted Bundy.
And then I've seen it.
It comes up like I saw the documentary on it.
It's like a six part series, but I didn't see the movie.
Yeah, but they have a really good like series documentary on it
with all the court footage and everything.
He fucking broke out of prison twice.
Yeah. Well, the courtroom was one of them.
The courtroom, he jumped out the window holding.
Holding in the room and they take his handcuffs off
and they leave the room and he just jumps out the fucking window.
Because he was his own lawyer and it goes out and kills more people.
So he was representing himself.
So he was like a library where he could do his own shit
and make his own phone calls because he was representing himself.
So he had this like extra privilege, a little room, extra privileges.
So like the court bailiff or whatever was like
flirting with some chick and he was in there pretending he was on the phone
jumps out the fucking window, breaks his ankle and gets up, goes to Florida
and kills like four girls killed everybody.
Whoa, bonkers, bro.
You'd love it. You'd love it.
You know, everybody always tells me they're always like, you'll love this one.
Yeah. No, I always loved it.
Like Trionne's my buddy, Trionne, his wife, her name is Tammy.
She's like, you know who you remind me of?
And I go, no, who she is.
You ever see Dexter?
And I'm like, he's a serial killer, right?
She's like, I know. Yeah, you totally remind me of him.
How do I keep reminding people of a serial killer?
Maybe just because a guy's super smart and very like thorough with what he does.
It was a compliment.
No, you guys are both very articulate.
And the fuck the thing is, it probably was to her. Yeah.
Everyone I talk to about you, everyone who ever mentions you,
I always say, talk about how smart you are and how articulate you are.
I really don't think I'm on that sharp.
That's what prison does to you, right?
Yeah. Go to prison for 12 years.
Yeah. Your IQ will jump at 20 points.
Yeah, I do hear that a lot. I don't know why.
I feel you're smart. You're very thorough with what you do.
There's different kinds of intelligence you can have, though.
Like you could have like book smart.
You could know a lot about things.
But I think prison gives you a certain like social intelligence that
you're scaring me. You're making it sound ominous.
No, I mean, I'm telling you, don't you agree with that?
Don't you?
Don't you think that there's some people
that are like they're really smart as far as history
or as far as like what they know about certain subjects,
but there's socially they're dummies.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Absolutely.
Like you're very easy to have a conversation with.
You're very easy to relate to or whatever.
That's a certain I've noticed that's a consistency
with a lot of people who have been in prison or who have.
I mean, I would say that's a very small,
very select group of people.
Look, I know a bunch of guys who it's like they have a touch of Asperger's.
Like like they're they're they're brilliant,
but they're so socially awkward.
They have no friends or they they'll have like one or two friends
and they're super good for like like that guy,
Roussini, you know, Roussini really doesn't have really any friends
and doesn't isn't trying.
He's very socially awkward.
But once you get to know him and he starts talking,
you realize this guy is brilliant.
I mean, he he's super smart.
It's it's it's odd. It's odd.
And I've known a I've known a bunch of people like that in prison.
Yeah, I mean, you know, I had a podcast a few days ago
and it was like three of us and all of us were like Alphas.
It was a constant battle talking over each other.
And honestly, within after about an hour or so,
I was really exhausted.
Yeah, like I was like, just stop talking about just kick back
and let these two guys go and go crazy.
Because you just you're so I remember thinking this must be
what it's like to be a friend of mine.
I don't know how I have I don't have this is exhausted.
I feel horrible for I hear layers like Jess, my girlfriend.
I feel horrible for her.
And luckily, she never wants to talk.
And I tell her all of them, like, OK, well, tell me this.
You know, I'm like, you never talk.
She's like, she's I don't need to.
She's I just got to get you going and she said you'll talk the whole time.
And I was just like, that's horrible.
I guess you are kind of like that.
No, I think about it.
Yeah, there's it's it's obnoxious.
You know, I try not to be like that, but it's a pain in the ass.
I really honestly, you know, no, probably probably more about you guys
than I do, you know, and I know very little about you.
But, you know, it's only because I once I start to realize, OK,
this guy's probably going to be around a while.
I might as well ask him what he's going to do, you know, what he does
for a living and, you know, little things like that.
But you don't really give a fuck.
You're just trying to make small talk.
Well, I think it's important you care.
I mean, I think it's do I care?
Are you genuinely interested?
Are you just trying to get along with somebody?
Well, I think I'm curious.
And I think it's important that I take interest in you and well, no offense.
You know, more so you because, you know,
Harax not around that's rude all the time.
Well, no, you're not.
You've only been around it.
You're you're right.
You've only been around half the half the time, you know what I'm saying?
But Danny, I think he's been here for every podcast.
No way. No, no, except for Boziak.
No, and there was the second podcast we did
because the second one I was like, where is he?
Oh, yeah, every time you come on, you were like, yeah, yeah.
And you were like, why?
He's annoying. No, he said.
I'm sure it was worse than that.
No, he was like, he can't make it.
He's going to try.
He's going to do why he has a real job.
He's like, you're the only one that ever asks.
Yeah. I love the Harax thing.
The Harax thing's lawyer is that kind of that was my favorite.
I got to track that guy down and give him free merchant.
And we can never respond.
We're going to make some shirts that say 200 pound hat.
Right. That's awesome.
How did he guess that you were 200 pounds?
Are you 200 pounds?
No, I'm a little a little south of 200, but I'm close.
Yeah. Buck 80, buck 85, buck 80.
What does this say?
His hat. Yeah.
Atmosphere you're in.
OK, I mean, I it's I guess it's the letters.
I thought it said atmos.
It's just something.
Have you ever heard of supreme?
Yeah, I'm sure that's a urine.
I saw urine.
I thought it's a jumble of two names where they scrambled
the letters to make two more words.
OK, I'm sure there's an official term for something like that.
I'm dyslexic.
So I saw urine.
I thought it doesn't say urine.
And I thought I'll say it again.
I was like, it now it looks like it says urine.
No, wait, it does say OK.
What does this say?
Antihero, right?
It's a it's a jumble of two two names.
Explain it to supreme antihero or like skateboard companies.
There's a jumble.
Jumble the letters together.
Your shirt is a skateboard company, too.
No, his shirt.
His shirt is a concrete shirt with Beavis' mouth on it.
Not my sweater. No, no, I meant that.
Pistron. I meant that.
Sorry.
All right.
So there's a company called antihero, right?
A skateboard company.
And there's also a clothing company called Supreme,
which is the skateboard company originally.
They took S-U-P-R-E-M-E-N-A-N-T-I-H-E-R-O
and just jumbled them together to make some fucked up phrase.
And that's what that is. OK.
What do you think about it?
I don't really understand it.
It's art. Fine art. OK.
Some guy with some guy with a fine arts degree
came up with that in Photoshop and said, hey, let's put it on beat.
I don't know if a fine arts degree guy came up with it, but somebody like Luke.
Well, that's very possible.
Yeah, Luke's got a fine arts degree.
That's true.
I guess.
Yeah. OK.
Makes sense. Makes sense.
So so you've got this is two and a half hours.
You want to end it?
I mean, I'm I'm I was wondering what we were doing here.
I was like, I know we're going off now.
I know he's going to cut all this.
He's got to. So what what's the what's the ending to this?
This story here, man.
I mean, I think that's why I was saying when I called the homicide detective,
it was to try and push this thing forward to an ending and to force it in.
Do you ever see an ending coming to this?
I would love it if the guy would be would get convicted.
He's a fucking murderer.
He's murdering people from inside of a federal prison
that didn't deserve to be killed.
Fuck him. You know what I'm saying?
I would love to see that be the end.
Do you think this is like
don't I don't sound like it?
I've seen people get indicted for things that I know they should.
I'm like, how could you have?
How can you sleep at night
inditing this guy who answered the phone and told his son
that that his buddy was coming over to pick up some drugs?
And boom, that guy, now your father, they just indicted your father
and they indicted your father to get you to cooperate.
And they still put since your dad jailed for 10 years.
So it's like, how do you sleep at night?
But you're going to let this guy you're not going to.
But this guy's a murderer, right?
You're not going to you're not going to prosecute him.
You could, but you're not going to.
I mean, I don't know.
Why do you think they don't?
I don't know.
There's got to be something there that maybe there's something
but we're going to care or initially I thought it was because
because Chris had fought the whole time.
Yeah. And that's a big thing.
Like if you go to trial, had fought his own case.
Yeah, he kept finding his case for he's been fighting his case for 20 years.
So here's the problem.
Danny goes to trial.
OK, if Danny goes to trial and then he gets 20 years
and then he turns around and says, listen, I found out about something
that's going on and I can tell you about these guys.
They'll say, OK, and they'll go give us the information.
If anything happens, we'll we'll consider
substantial assistance will reduce your sentence.
Then they bust those guys and you go, OK, hey, hey, you bust those guys.
They they think I got five years.
This guy got four years.
Well, you're going to reduce my sentence.
They go, yeah.
Now, you know why?
Because you've you've been you thought you went to trial.
Yeah. You went to trial.
I don't like that. You filed an appeal.
You that leaves them sour.
Even seeing them say to people to guys, yeah, we'll file a reduction
in your sentence, but you have to remove your like they're doing a 20 to 55,
let's say, or they're filing a motion to try and get their sentence.
But you have to remove your 20 to 55.
And you're like,
uh, well, that could set me free.
OK, so if I do that, you promised it.
No, you do it and we'll consider it.
And it's like, I mean, you know, it's it's terrifying.
You're in a horrible position.
So yeah, you're fucked.
Do I think they should? Will they?
I don't know. So fucking crazy, bro.
It's like it's like on this side of the prison gates, you have all these.
You're basically free.
You have all these amazing rights.
But once you slip a little bit on the other side, you're fucked.
You have nothing.
You're a fucking prisoner of the government here forever.
You're a slave.
What? Here's the problem you're fucked forever.
Here's the problem.
And here's the way I always look at it.
And the guys in prison look at it.
If they have if they're if they think about it at all.
Prison is the way the government would treat you if they had absolute power.
So people, they're like, oh, they would never do this.
They went to the citizens.
You give them absolute power, and this is how they'll treat you.
Because guess what?
It's it's no it's probably no more violent in prison than it is in society.
You know, in a lower or or a camp.
What are they? What are they?
What's that?
Treat you like garbage and scum.
Why? Because we can't Lord of the Flies.
Yeah. Well, huh?
I suppose like in prison, like Lord of the Flies, right?
With all the kids in the story with the kids on the island.
That's what it would be like.
Yeah, you have. Well, I mean, no, I don't know.
I mean, you still have guard.
You still have there's still a structure there.
You know, it's not like just the toughest kids running the block
and they're just taking and stealing.
And it's not it's not like that.
But I mean, they basically like you get horrible treatment.
You get you get the worst possible medical only so it looks like we're helping you.
Yeah. But I guess what I'm trying to say is illusion.
Once you slip into that system,
the judicial system, the prison system, right?
And once you get that label on you and even if you go to prison
for six months, not not even saying you have for six years or 10 years or whatever.
Once you get out, you're still you almost still have one foot.
In that world, in that.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Well, I can never leave it.
It's so hard to get out.
I'm I've got major like I like people don't even seem to realize that how.
You know, what a what an untenable position that I am in.
You're free, but you're not really.
Oh, no, no, it's very easy.
They can easily yank my they can easily send me back to prison.
I have I have very few rights.
Do you right now bother you?
Does that do you think about that a lot?
I think about it all the time.
If I like I go to get in somebody's car, you know, like I literally like I'm
I'm if I out luckily, I don't almost I almost never have to get in someone's car.
But if I were to go get in your car, it would be like you don't have a gun in here.
Do you have? Of course, no, I'm serious, bro.
I mean, you don't have a gun.
You don't have this, you know, because I'm in the worst possible position
because if anything happens, you're right.
Do you know how many people have come to me and offered me business ideas
or hey, look, I'll put up this much money and we'll do this and this.
I'm like, yeah, but but what if that doesn't work?
Well, I mean, if it doesn't work, I understand it doesn't work.
You say that now, but you lose 50 grand.
Yeah, you're going to be upset.
Yeah. Well, it's not going to happen.
No, no, it could happen.
Right. And then you get upset and then you make a call
and I'm in front of the judge and he doesn't believe me.
And it won't matter if it won't matter if there's paperwork.
No, your honor, he signed this, he signed this.
No, Mr.
because you change your story at all.
They're going to believe everything you say, not me. I'm done.
So I mean, there are multiple times where people could have made my life
much, much easier than my life is right now.
But I'm not in a position where I can really dealing with me.
You know, I'm going to do everything I'm supposed to do.
You know, why? Because I can't, I can't fuck up.
Yeah, right.
I'm not in a position where I can argue with you or we can go to court
or you consume me.
Right.
You're fine.
I'm losing every single time.
Yeah, you're going right back to prison.
So I've got multiple people that say, hey, we can do this.
Uh-uh, no, can't do that. Can't do it.
No, it's OK. I won't even, your name won't even be on it.
It doesn't matter.
Do you understand?
If anything happens, I go back to prison.
You know, for you, it's nothing.
For me, it's prison.
And if I go back to prison for two months, just waiting for the judge to say,
let's say they grab me and they hold me, takes two or three months to get in front
of the judge while I'm waiting.
And the judge says, yeah, you know what?
I'm going to give him time served.
Oh, OK, boom. Guess what?
By the time I get out, I've lost my apartment.
I've lost my home.
I don't have any place to live now.
I'm worse off than I was when I left prison with nothing
because now I don't even have a I don't even have halfway house for seven or eight months.
Yeah. I got nothing.
I'm sleeping on Trian's couch.
I'm going back to Stacy and saying, can I get my old room back?
Can you give me a month to come up with with the rent?
I have no I've nothing.
My stuff, everything's gone.
People won't realize that.
They think, oh, it's not a big deal.
Fuck you. You don't know, bro.
You don't really know how bad it is, how bad of a position I'm in.
Yeah.
So yeah, living with that fear day in and day out has to be so draining on you, bro.
You know, the worst part about it is.
The worst part about it is there's nobody to blame.
You see what I'm saying?
Like, like, I can't be angry at the system.
I can't be angry at the way things are, because that's how they were
when I was committing my crimes.
I put myself in this position.
I didn't know it.
I should have known it.
I put myself in this position.
I'm in a horrible position and it's nobody's fault but mine.
So I don't even get the bitch about it.
Like, I can't even blame somebody because if you really look at it,
you know, look at it from step outside the box and look at it.
You go, well, how'd you get here?
This is it was me and just did some dumbass things and and actually did
some dumbass things, could have corrected it, kept doing it, could have
corrected it again, then decided to go, you know what?
Fuck it. Let's go up a notch.
Take it up.
Like, I'm not even going to step back.
No, I'm going all in.
Well, that was cute when it was working, but it ain't cute now.
It's probably not going to be cute the rest of my life.
I can't even most people, my girlfriend, Jess,
she's off probation. She did a year.
Really? She had like two or three years probation.
She's off already.
So she's off probation.
I can't get most people get off probation at the halfway mark.
As long as they don't violate.
I can't even do that.
Why?
Because I owe six million dollars.
So they won't they're saying we're going to keep you every for five years.
You're doing every day so that we know you're going to pay every single month.
What happens after five years?
You haven't paid six million.
Then I have a civil judgment.
They pass it from the court collecting
because right now they don't have to hire anybody to collect
because they know if I don't collect, I go back to prison.
So they're like, oh, he's going to pay.
Yeah.
But what they'll do is the percentage of your income, right?
Right.
And then then what ends up like when I got the federal
I got the federal unemployment.
Yeah.
And I got a hold.
I took some of that.
I took twenty five percent of it. Wow.
Listen, last how fuck is that?
Would you expect them to do?
I mean, I thought you were going to say more than twenty five percent.
You had a Trump check and they took some of it.
Yeah. Yeah.
They took like a thousand.
They put it towards your restitution.
Yeah. Yeah. They take it.
She my P.O. didn't go off and go off to Vegas or anything.
Yeah. Yeah.
Because you took six million dollars.
Right.
I'll be paying forever from the banks.
Yeah.
So that six million turns into a civil judgment.
And then I'll avail the collection agency will come after me at that point.
You have to try and make some kind of a payment arrangement with a collection
agency that collects on behalf of the federal government after that.
So you never can't buy anything in my name if I buy a house.
And let's say I buy a house.
Sort of go fund me for Matt Cox.
I was going to say Matt Cox.
Six million oh six million to the federal government.
I've actually got it down.
It's like five million nine hundred.
That's what he's saying.
It's really two point five.
Yeah.
So please like and subscribe so we could pay the restitution.
Oh fuck Matt.
Good times.
Yeah. It's sad.
It's not designed to help people win.
It's designed to fucking keep you in the loop.
The ever ending loop of death.
Listen, it beats prison.
Which is right where I'm supposed to be.
It's all about your perspective.
I love it out here.
Hell yeah.
It's great.
It's great out here.
Food's great.
Weather's nice.
I get to turn the TV.
Starbucks is good.
Listen.
Starbucks hits different outside.
Yeah.
I still have a bag of snow instant coffee.
You have you have Keefy instant coffee.
I have a bag in my I have a bag.
Just in case.
Well, you know what I want to do?
At some point I want to go to dinner with with somebody who I was locked up with.
And when we go to pay, I'm like, bro, I got this.
I got this.
I want to pull out a couple of books of stamps
and a fucking Keefy coffee.
Yeah.
It's just like, yeah, what are you doing?
Or tell the waitress be like, can you give me some coffee?
Wait a second.
Hold on here.
Just mix that up.
Yeah, you can do that.
You can do stupid stuff like that all throughout dinner.
Yeah.
That's funny.
All right, man, I think we've hit a wall.
Let's wrap it up.
Wrap her.
Go ahead and give your plugs.
Where can people find your story on Inside True Crime?
InsideTrueCrime.com?
Yeah, well, it's Matt Cox.
If you have Matt Cox and Inside True Crime, it comes up.
That's that's my that's not my story.
That's you haven't.
That's my website.
I mean, that's my YouTube channel.
Listen, by this point, nobody's watching.
At this point, you ever watch the analytics?
Did it?
Did it?
Yeah.
Like by the end, that last.
You can have 40,000 views and the last part is like, you
know, like, and three people watch it all the way.
No way.
That's way more than three, trust me.
So yeah, so it's Matt Cox and Inside True Crime.
I got all my narrated stories.
This story will be narrated, which is way better than what
I just did.
And I got I put up what, two podcasts or I do two,
like two vlogs, two vlogs a week, you know, and that's it.
I'm trying to do a true crime.
I got a true crime thing I'm working on right now in LA
to do, like, to go over all my stories, you know,
do like three every season.
It's a whole thing, kind of like a dirty John type of,
you know, like a real, like a professional kind of edited
podcast.
The thing you hate, the kind where they put it on like Apple
or iTunes and they.
Oh, no, I like those podcasts.
We're all new.
Like Serial or something like that.
Yeah, exactly.
I love those.
I love Serial.
Those are great.
Serial is great.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm trying to do that right now with Davey.
We're working on, we're kind of negotiating.
So I'm not really doing much of anything.
I'm just waiting.
All right.
Thanks a lot, Matt.
Bye-bye, everyone.
