The military industrial complex, there's no such thing.
No.
All right, don't say anymore, we're going to record this.
I need the live reaction.
All right, Steve, let me know when you're rolling.
Ryan McBeth, ladies and gentlemen, big fan of your YouTube channel.
I love all the stuff that you're doing with the intel analyzing and the military analyzing
and the way you do it in such a comical way is beautiful, man.
Thank you so much for having me on the show, Danny.
My pleasure.
I got to tell you, I had a number of people reach out to me, I swear to God, you got some
of the best fans in the business.
Oh, we tried to, and cheers.
To the everlasting glory of the infantry, it took six days for God to create the world
in the seventh grade of American infantry and said, boys, take care of it, it's yours
till I get back.
Bottoms up.
Cheers.
Mmm.
Smooth.
Smooth.
The Angel's Envy, man.
Wow.
That's really good.
If Angel's Envy ever wants to sponsor me, I am definitely down for it.
What is it?
Because there was two kinds of Angel's Envy at the liquor store.
There was rye, finished rye, which is this one, and then there was the regular Angel's
Envy.
That was just like a malt, like Scotch, or not Scotch, but it was bourbon, I guess.
Yeah, it was bourbon.
This rye, this particular rye is, this particular rye is finished in, I think it was to rum
barrels, so it's kind of like this flavored rye, and for some reason I just love rye whiskey.
I just think rye whiskey is the most amazing thing, and that Angel's Envy, it is the best,
I have some in my office, I actually have some upstairs, I have some downstairs in
my studio, I'm never that far from a bottle of Angel's Envy, I love this stuff.
Yeah, it's amazing, man.
Tastes really good.
It tastes better than that, what's the other stuff I drink that's over there?
Basil Hayden.
I like basil, Basil's is good, too.
Basil's is good, too, but I gotta tell you, the Angel's Envy rye, it is the premium rye.
Let me get one of those cigars.
Oh, absolutely.
I appreciate you.
A Cristo.
Monte Cristo.
Monte Cristo.
It is one of them.
Thank you.
So, CAO Brasilia is one of my favorites.
I also like Christoff.
There's another brand, it's called Mr. Cigar, it's in Miami, and when I was on the Destiny
podcast, I had a couple of hours to kill for the show, and I went to downtown Miami, found
some cigar places.
And my God, that, there's one place called Mr. Cigar, and they sold a special kind of
cigar called a lancero.
Lanceros are usually like 38 ring gauge, very small, very thin, and very long, and they
have a nice cool burn to them, and only the most expert cigar rollers can make these things,
because they're so small.
There's not a lot of room for error in these cigars.
And they are so delicious.
And so, yeah, I smoke these cigars from Mr. Cigar, I absolutely love them.
How do you do this?
So, there is a button right there, there you go, hit that button, if that doesn't work,
I have a lighter, I have a TSA compliant, there you go, fire it up.
Good.
Steve, you might have to crack that door and turn that thing on, bro.
I'm about five minutes from getting evicted.
They want to evict me, I'm famous.
So, how did you go from being in the military to creating all of this entertainment and
informational stuff that you're putting on YouTube?
Yeah, that is absolutely insane.
I was a software engineer, I was working for Accenture, and one of the things that I did
there was I would interview people, I'd interview them for work.
So, I interviewed this guy, and this guy, I could tell he knew what he was talking about,
but he just had trouble communicating what he was saying.
And it was one of those things where it was a panel interview, and if two guys don't like
him and one guy does, guess what, that guy isn't getting hired.
And I couldn't go to that forum, couldn't convince these guys like, hey, we need this
guy around.
So, I started making YouTube videos to help socially awkward programmers be able to answer
interview questions about software programming.
I did that for about a year, I think I had about 5,000 subscribers, I was doing okay.
And then, the war in Ukraine happens.
I make two videos.
I make one video about cybersecurity and why we haven't seen any cyber attacks in Ukraine.
I make a second video on why Russian tank turrets pop off of their hulls.
And all of a sudden, I go from 50,000 subscribers to over 100,000.
This all happened since the Ukraine war kicked off.
Since Ukraine.
Wow, man.
And I think a lot of it is that...
That's impressive.
There's nobody that can explain what's going on at the level that a lot of people can understand.
You know, my old boss, Major Adam Kraft, I have him on my YouTube channel every once
in a while.
Major Kraft, he called me Neil deGrasse Tyson for open source intelligence.
And you know, whenever there's a rocket launch or a new satellite, they bring out Neil deGrasse
Tyson onto the news, right?
Neil deGrasse Tyson goes, well, this rocket is able to allow us to see beyond the stars,
you know?
And now we feel like we know if we're talking...
Oh, like, yeah.
And we can go to a party and we can say, yeah, this new satellite, we can see beyond the
stars now, right?
So I think what's kind of neat about Ryan McBeth is that when there's a new weapons system
being used in Ukraine or, hey, why is Israel doing this thing?
You bring out Ryan McBeth and Ryan McBeth goes, well, this new weapon is being used
because of this or Israel is doing this because of this.
And there's really no one who can explain that at the low level that people can understand.
So when you were in...
You were in the army?
Yeah, army side.
Yeah.
Army infantry?
Infantry.
And where were you?
And what specifically were you doing?
So I was a heavy weapons infantry man.
I served in Germany.
I was up before a drum for Bliss.
I was in Iraq.
I was in Egypt.
And mainly did anti-tank heavy weapons, although I was also in the weapons squad or weapons
squad leader.
So you carry...
So one funny thing, when I first joined, I was in the 90s, early 90s.
And they had this MOS or a job, military occupation, especially MOS.
They had this MOS called Eleven Hotel, which is anti-tank.
And so I really liked the idea of that.
When I was a kid, I read this book called Team Yankee by Harold Coyle.
And it was about this group of tankers and some infantry men in Germany during World
War III.
And the tanks, it was kind of interesting.
But you know, I was really into...
I really was into the ITVs, the improved tow vehicle.
I just loved this idea.
There was this...
Think of a cracker box.
And on top of that cracker box, you put a hammerhead turret.
And inside that little hammerhead turret that can raise and lower, you have two anti-tank
missiles.
So you can sit behind a hill, raise that hammerhead turret up, there's Ivan, fire at Ivan, lower
that hammerhead turret, get the heck out of there.
Wow.
I, for some reason, that just spoke to me.
I'm like, I want to do that job.
I want to do that job.
And I got...
And like, literally, as soon as I joined, they say, okay, well, you're poof, you're Eleven
Bravo, straight leg infantry, but you got anti-tank training.
So guess who's carrying the anti-tank weapon?
Oh, no.
I mean, it's okay, because that was, that was kind of my jam.
So you end up in the weapons squad, or at the time you might have a weapons platoon,
and then a lot of that changes.
The army is constantly changing.
In fact, they're supposedly, they're taking away the weapons company.
They used to have a weapons company, and then that was taken away, and then it was added
again.
So we're going to take that away and turn it into a weapons platoon that is at the
headquarters in the battalion.
And that way, you know, I guess the thought is that basically anything in a vehicle that
moves...
Let me back up for a second.
Infantry battalion, all right?
It's probably one of the lowest maneuver units in the army of battalions.
It's about 500 dudes, men and women.
And normally in a battalion, you have three line companies, meaning trigger pullers, three
companies of infantry, and one company of heavy weapons.
And then you have another company of support.
So that support company, there are beans and bullets, cooks, fuel, that kind of stuff,
right?
So they're planning to take that weapons company away and maybe turn it into a weapons platoon
that is at the battalion level.
And the rationale is that for the most part, you know, light infantry brigade combat teams
just don't have the logistical lift to get fuel and ammunition to those Delta companies,
to those heavy weapons companies.
So it's just better to kind of keep it out of the battalion and then the battalion can
send it to kind of send those soldiers where they're needed.
And also with the advent of loitering munitions, I mean, the days of having a weapons company
might be over.
What's a loitering ammunition?
A loitering munition.
So a loitering munition is a type of rocket or even a propeller driven drone that you
would fire.
And that drone might be able to look for targets by itself or with a human in the loop, a human
is controlling that drone.
So that munition can loiter up in the air for a certain number of hours.
It could be up to 10 hours or so.
Really?
Yeah.
So this...
So like maintain a holding pattern until they find a target.
And you can even be automated.
You can say, okay, here's all these pictures of enemy tanks, go after this specific type
of enemy tank.
And that thing, it might go back and say, hey, I think I found something.
You want me to go after it?
All right.
The human has to say yes or no, and the drone goes after the vehicle.
That's fascinating.
So in a world like you, like we're seeing in Ukraine, where you have loitering munitions
like the Russian Lancet that can be launched and just kind of stay up there until it can
find a target, having Humvees full of heavy weapons just might be a bunch of targets.
So it might make more sense to get guys out of these heavily armored Humvees and either
on foot or into basically what are ATVs, all terrain vehicles, the Army's next generation
squad weapon, or next generation, how is it called, the squad, darn it, I can't remember
the darn name.
It's like a go-kart.
Oh, really?
Yeah, the improved squad vehicle, I believe that's what it's called.
This is the Lancet?
Yeah, that's the Lancet.
Have you ever been to Ukraine?
I have not.
I have not.
That's a wild looking rocket.
And I got to tell you, when the war first started, Russia didn't know what the heck they were
doing.
They had no clue.
And then it took about a year and a half, but Russia slowly started to figure out what
they were doing.
And that really, that's a problem, because for the longest time, Ukraine was relying
on the fact that Russians were stupid.
And now the ones who've survived have learned, and they're changing their tactics.
Why do you think that is in the beginning of the conflict?
It seemed like Russia couldn't maintain a foothold.
And it seems like, or I know, in fact, Ukraine did have a lot of strategic victories.
In fact, I believe in November of eight months after the war kicked off.
I think one of the big US generals came out and said, we just had a really big strategic
victory over Russia.
We have them on their heels, and now would be the best time to pursue peace talks.
And I think the White House told them to f off.
I actually don't know anything about that.
When it comes to the political side of conflict that talked to Peter Zion, he knows what.
I'm serious.
There is a reason why Peter exists, and there's a reason why Ryan McBeth exists.
So you don't really pay much attention to the politics of it.
You more look at like the strategy, military strategy and weapons.
Mainly the military strategy and weapons.
There's plenty of people who are talking politics, and most of them are wrong.
But at least I can say, well, this is a Lancet.
It can stay up for 10 hours.
I'm good at that.
That's actually it.
And that's not necessarily an easy thing to get right either.
But I have this capability of holding a lot of random stuff.
That's all I do.
I have no life.
I have no hobbies.
This is a litter.
I mean, I run.
I know it doesn't look it.
But actually, I do run.
You ride bikes too, don't you?
I do triathlon.
I haven't done triathlon in a little while.
I keep getting hurt.
Yeah, I heard your story about your arm.
My arm, yeah.
My arm was cut off.
Cut off, man.
Yeah, that wasn't...
I get that.
Like, oh, you were in the army.
You were in Iraq.
You lost your arm.
No, I was on a bike ride, and just I hit a pole.
I was going about 18 miles an hour, so I mean, it wasn't totally off.
I was still hanging off by noodles.
Oh, my God.
I'm not a doctor.
I can't identify that.
Oh, my God.
Noodles.
Yeah, like, well, I mean...
Where were you?
Inspire House?
No, I was in Odington, Maryland.
I was far out on this, like, rail trail, like, this back trail.
Big back path, and couldn't get a cell phone signal, and I later found out, even if you
don't have any bars, you can still call 911.
Didn't know that at the time.
I know that now.
So you crashed.
But even when I did call 911, yeah, I crashed.
Severed your arm.
Yeah.
And then how did you not bleed out in, like, five minutes?
I have a bike kit, and in some of my bike kit, I had a...
So I'm sorry you heard the story.
Now you have to leave.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that was during your training.
Yeah.
So I had this drill sergeant, Drill Sergeant Rick's, and I swear, like, this guy, like,
when I became an instructor, I thought, man, I want to get, like, an operation to change
my verbal chords so I can talk like this.
Okay, Puppets, today we're going to play a little game I like to call, kill the Puppet.
So I remember I crashed, and I was thinking, like, you know, my old drill sergeant used
to never give up the way you live.
Then I had a bike jacket, put that around my arm.
I had a wrench.
I figured I got 15 seconds until...
You pass out.
Until I pass out, got the bike jacket on, kind of made a tourniquet out of the bike wrench
and the jacket.
They don't tell you how much it hurts.
The tourniquet.
The tourniquet.
Yeah, that's not something they cover in the training part.
It couldn't hurt worse than the arm dangling.
I wasn't really feeling that.
Really?
Shock, huh?
The pain came.
Yeah.
But now I'm lying on the road and I'm going, like, hmm, all right, well, I got a choice.
I either pick up my arm and start walking.
Maybe a cyclist or a runner will come by and find me, or maybe not.
I mean, I'll die right here.
Well, I did not.
I did not survive root Irish to come back and die in a park in Odenton.
So the bone was completely snapped off.
Yeah, it was gone.
Yeah, sticking out.
Like, if you get to see an x-ray, I look at the terminator, I think it's all metal.
Do you have any pictures of it?
Died in your elbow.
Yeah, on my phone.
Oh, you do?
Turn that off for the...
Oh, my God.
Turn that off for the interview.
Turn that off for the interview.
Absolutely.
That's amazing.
Did they tell you, like, the percentage you had to keep the arm versus amputate it?
No, they weren't going to amputate it.
They never even thought about that.
No, it was the doctor who told me, but no, the only problem is that, like, I have most
of my function back, but I can't rotate it all the way, so I can't hold a rifle anymore
like this.
Oh, no.
You'll survive.
I'll be okay.
Like, I can get one of those MAG modified grips or something.
You get one of the hand cannons, you know?
Yeah, I enjoy shooting.
I carry a gun, but I have too much stuff going on.
I don't have time to, like, geek out over guns.
I have a couple of pistols.
I have a .22 rifle, and, like, that's all.
And, like, maybe once every six months, I go to the range.
Someone, one of my fans tried to get me into three-gun matches.
What's a three-gun match?
So, a three-gun is where you shoot your pistol, a rifle, and a shotgun, like, I guess, at
different stations, like John Wick, you know, John Wick 2, and he's in the underground,
you know, transitioning from each...
You go through, like, an optical course, like, shoot targets?
You can.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you can do, there are these three-gun matches.
And, you know, I thought about it, but I'm like, you know, for air...
What's crazy is to do what I do, and I'm not even kidding about this.
I work between 13 and 16 hours a day.
I saw one of your videos the other day.
I think it was the one about Andy's nuclear warbook.
You were sitting in the airport making a video.
People are walking behind you, like, what the f*** is this guy doing?
Yeah, you know...
And you were locked in, man.
I'm always working, like, in fact, that's one of the reasons I started doing videos
in my bathrobe.
Well, there's two reasons for that.
The first was that at the time I was still working for Accenture, so I kind of got famous
for being that guy in his bathrobe, right, and I'm usually smoking, yeah.
And, you know, I started...
I did that at first because I was working for Accenture, and usually, like, the only
time I could get a video out was early in the morning, because I had to do my video,
and I had to work out, and I had to go into work.
But when, you know, when...
The other thing is that if I look like a crazy person, or I'm unshaved, I'm wearing a bathroom,
my hair's all messed up, I'm smoking, if I look like a crazy person, but I'm giving
some good information, what can the Russians say about me?
He...
Don't listen to him, he's crazy.
Yeah.
What can they say?
Oh, it's weird.
Look at this loser who's in a way in a bathrobe drinking whiskey.
Mmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, look at him.
So, like, there's really nothing they can do.
And I saw some of that's a character, right, some of that's a character that I play, but
I would say that character is probably about 80% me.
It really is.
It's hilarious, man.
I love it.
I'm a huge fan.
I'm a huge fan.
I love the...
I love that when you do the bits where you're talking to yourself in, like, different characters.
Yeah.
I think it was one you had where you had...
You were, like, working out, and you're like, hey, brain!
I need an idea for a video!
And then you had yourself in the robe with a cigarette.
I started doing...
I think I started doing that after...
There was one of my videos where it was just like, I was so serious and, like, I was just
so done.
Yeah.
Right.
I hate when people take themselves too seriously, man.
I really...
It's really refreshing seeing...
Like, honestly, it really is refreshing seeing the way that you put out your content and
the way...
It's educating and you're having a great fucking time.
Hell, you never know what you're gonna get.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You're talking through an airport, talking about, you know, whatever, or it could be
a funny video.
Yes.
Or it could be something that goes, oh, wow, next time I'm at a party, I'm gonna bring
that up.
Mm-hmm.
You know, like, hey, do you know that Russian tank turrets pop off their holes because of
the ammunition that's in the center carousel when that's hit, they all explode directly
up?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Like, I guess I'm the one-stop shop, right?
So that was the video that originally popped you off with the Russian thing exploding.
Can you explain for the people that don't know or maybe haven't seen that yet exactly
what that was about?
So, if anybody's watching, I'm gonna use this can of liquid death.
Actually, you're sponsored by...
You're sponsored by...
White rabbit, baby.
White rabbit.
So, you see this can of white rabbit?
So, imagine for those of you who are listening, imagine a can of white rabbit, just a can
of soda or a can of energy drink.
Now, on top of that can of white rabbit, imagine a turret, all right?
Now, that turret is moving around the center ring of that can.
Mm-hmm.
Now, in a lot of Russian tanks, the ammunition is stored in a carousel around the can lid.
So, they do that because a lot of Russian tanks have auto-loaders.
Now...
Stephen, maybe you can find some diagrams on the Internet of this.
Bit of history about this.
The Russians always thought they were gonna fight in a nuclear, biological, and chemical
environment.
So, that means...
Since like the Cold War.
Since the Cold War.
Okay.
They assumed that they would always be fighting in a nuclear, biological, and chemical environment.
So, when they decided to build some of these new tanks, the T-62, T-64, T-72, T-80, these
tanks were built with an auto-loader instead of a human loader, and there's two reasons
why.
Mm-hmm.
First, is that if you leave out a human loader, then you can make the tank smaller.
Okay.
Because you don't have a person standing up loading shells into the gun, right?
And the second reason is that if you're fighting in a nuclear environment, every time the loader
opens that breach door, they're gonna get the shine from the radiation coming in.
Mm-hmm.
So, they're gonna get juiced up, or at least their right arm is gonna get juiced up.
Right.
So...
When it's exposed from the tank.
When it's exposed from opening that tank barrel, and there's radioactivity.
I think it's a good one.
Yeah, the T-90 auto-loaders, that's...
Yeah.
Nope, not that one.
There was a orange one.
Yeah, 4K 3D animation.
Yeah, some of those are...
Left to left.
Nope.
Wow.
The orange...
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, this carousel loader...
Turn the audio off.
This particular carousel loader is fully automated.
The shell gets pushed in, and then the actual charge gets pushed in after it, so they split
it up into two sections.
There's the loading tray coming up, and then the next thing you're gonna see is the shell
is gonna get pushed into the breach.
And this is all happening inside the tank.
It's all happening inside the tank, it's fully automated.
It's taking a little while.
Yeah.
And this...
So, this guy's manually putting the shell in for some reason, but when it goes in.
And then the...
So, the babies...
All right, and now they're manually putting the propellant bag in.
So, this is probably the best video.
It is.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, well, that is the...
Oh, dude.
So, in this case, the auto-loader must be broken.
But typically, that stuff comes up from the bottom of the tank, and it's in this carousel
that surrounds the entire vehicle, and so when that vehicle gets hit, the tank pops off.
Now, the tank, the top of the turret, explodes into the air, usually, well, sometimes.
And this was happening in Ukraine?
Constantly.
Constantly.
Because the Russians had their tanks built like this.
But I mean, look, every tank is a trade-off, right?
So, the Russians...
Oh, this is much better.
Yeah, that's...
They use an auto-loader.
Americans use a 19-year-old with a strong arm.
So what does that mean?
Well, it means there's another person you have to...
That has to crew the tank.
It means there's another person you have to feed.
It means that you can have fewer tanks, right?
Like, if you think about it, for every three tanks, since there's three crew in every tank,
a driver, a gunner, and a tank commander, there's three crew in every Russian tank, and there's
four crew in every American tank, the Russians can have an extra tank for the same amount
of crew that the Americans have.
And that has its own power right there, right?
Right.
Right.
So, you know, you're dealing with...
And I'm sure them being smaller is better, right?
They weigh less.
I'm sure they're a little bit harder to hit, maybe?
If it's a main gun round, it's going to be a little bit...
So the actual size of something like the T-72, which is probably Russia's...
It's not the most widely produced tank, probably the most used tank in Russia.
If you take something like the T-72, it's about two-thirds the size of the U.S. Abrams.
So that was a lot harder to hit back in the days when it was gun-on-gun.
Well, nowadays, we have kamikaze missiles.
We have weapons like the Javelin, which take a look at the heat source that you've identified,
and it locks it into its little computer brain, and then it goes after that tank.
It doesn't care how small you are, right?
So nowadays, that isn't as big of an advantage as it was, and that's a huge issue for Russia.
What other sort of weapon technicality failures has Russia had during this war, or what other...
What's another pain point for them, I guess, you would say?
Logistics was a huge pain point.
Logistics.
When you first started the conversation, you asked me, why does Russia do this,
or why were they so bad at what they did?
Because it always worked before.
Russia has always been able to kind of blunder their way into victory,
whether they train their troops that well or not,
just because they can just keep throwing bodies at it and artillery until the problem solves itself.
But like South Ossetia, this is the war with Georgia,
they blunder their way around South Ossetia for quite a few weeks and still managed to win.
Chechnya, the Battle of Grosny, that was an absolute catastrophe,
but Russia came back and they just leveled every single building as on their way in.
So it always seemed to work before.
Now, logistics in this particular war have been absolutely horrible.
You know, Russia just can't seem to get the supplies they need to the front lines.
And another big issue is they don't use truck trailers.
Truck trailers.
Truck trailers.
Oh, I get to talk about truck trailers all day.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Mudwater.
Mudwater is a coffee alternative containing four adaptogenic mushrooms.
With only a fraction of the caffeine as a cup of coffee,
you get energy without the jitters or the crash of coffee.
And each ingredient was added for a purpose.
Cacao and chai for a hint of caffeine and hot chocolate like flavor.
Lion's mane to support focus.
Cordyceps to help support physical performance.
And both chaga and reishi to support your immune system.
What I really love about Mudwater is that it tastes great and they took their time
to find all the perfect ingredients to develop a product that helps you feel better every single day.
Mudwater donates monthly to psychedelic research and treatments as they believe the
country is in a mental health epidemic and sees psychedelics as useful tools for individuals
with depression, PTSD, anxiety and other mental health experiences.
So get 15% off and a free frother by using my link below mudwater.com forward slash Danny
and use the code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
That's MUDWTR.com forward slash Danny and use the promo code Danny at checkout to get 15% off.
It's linked below. Now back to the show.
What kind of truck trailers are we talking about?
So for their military, in a truck trailer, like the kind of trailer that might go on,
like a flatbed trailer or an additional trailer that can go on a military truck.
So if you look at an American truck like an LMTV, a light medium tactical vehicle,
or the family medium tactical vehicle, family medium tactical vehicles,
if you put a trailer on a truck, you double the carrying capacity of the truck
and you only suffer an eight to 10% fuel cost.
Well, in Russia, it takes too long to train people how to back up a truck trailer
because backing up a trailer is a skill. Yes.
That is a skill and it takes practice.
Well, they don't have time... Do it a lot here in Florida with boats.
They don't have... Yeah, you can imagine, right?
So they don't have time to teach people that skill, so they just don't use trailers.
So essentially, whenever you see a truck and it's not carrying a trailer,
that's half of that truck movement that's just been wasted.
Right? So that's another big problem is that Russia just doesn't use truck trailers
because they don't have the trained people to operate them.
Right, right.
So that's the second thing that they're doing wrong.
They're at the point now where they're doing more things right than wrong.
And that's a very dangerous situation.
They figure out how to do on-call artillery.
That was something they did not have at the beginning of the war,
using the Orlan-10 spotter drones to call in artillery and loitering munitions.
So they'll take like an Orlan-10 and they'll launch that
and they'll loiter above the battlefield and they'll go,
okay, there's a Ukrainian position there, send up three loitering munitions.
So they send up three Lancets.
Like, all right, yeah, we got one tank there, one tank there, one tank...
Okay, send all these three toward these targets right here.
It's at the point right now in Ukraine where I don't think they can...
Russia and Ukraine, both, Russia and Ukraine, they can't put
anything greater than a company in one place.
And a company is about 110 soldiers or maybe 30-some vehicles.
It depends on the organization, but they can't really mass any force.
Neither side can mass force because we have such good ISR,
Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance.
We have such good ISR that whenever you build up people for an attack,
the other side can see it and they can send loitering munitions or drones to go take out those
artillery or rockets like Heimars.
So it's... I would find it very difficult.
I think it'd be very difficult for Russia or Ukraine to break through their trenches
unless there's a major game-changing weapon because they just don't have...
They just can't mass any forces because the enemy can see it and they can send
loitering munitions and rockets right toward that area.
And we, obviously, we're spending billions of dollars sending of weapons
we've been sending to Ukraine, but we've been...
From what I understand is we've just been sending sort of like our reserves, right?
We haven't been sending them the new stuff.
We send all the old stuff.
Sort of. I mean, you're close with that.
In most cases, yes.
Missiles expire. That's something a lot of people don't understand.
Right.
That when we send weapons to Ukraine, we're not sending the new stuff.
Our stuff expires and we have to send it back to Raytheon and they have to open it up and
then all nitrogen up. So we have two choices.
When a missile is about, the fuel is about to expire.
We can shoot it, which is great if we have days on the training calendar to do that,
or we can send it back to Raytheon.
Well, now we have a third option.
Third option is send it to Ukraine and let Ukraine shoot it at the Russians.
And we get... I'm serious. We, everybody wins except the Russians.
We get to get rid of these missiles, which are going to cost money to remove or to remove
from the inventory, to de-mill, we call it. We're going to get telemetry data,
like data on how these weapons systems perform.
Right.
So that information comes right back to us.
And then American jobs are used to create these new missiles.
Yes, exactly.
So like everybody wins. We have a...
Again, which improves our GDP and everybody wins.
The military industrial complex wins.
So I don't believe in the military industrial complex, but...
What do you mean you don't believe in it?
Right. So do you know how much money Lockheed Martin made in 2023?
I have no clue, but if I was to guess...
What is the name of your fact checker?
Steve.
Steve? I love Steve.
With a pH.
Steve with a pH.
So Steve with a pH can probably look this up real quick.
But I'm going to do this from memory.
So Lockheed Martin made $8.7 billion last year.
Am I right?
That's it. I thought it would be more than that.
Lockheed Martin made it was $8.7 billion for their total profit, their earnings.
Click.
Now...
You can just Google. You don't have to go to images.
I'm sure it's just right on Google.
Oh, no, you just had it.
That's okay.
There you go.
67.6 billion in 2023 net sales compared to 66...
Net earnings.
Net earnings were $6.9 billion.
So that's what you got to concentrate on.
Net earnings.
What's the difference between earnings and sales?
The earnings are what you're bringing in after your sales.
So net earnings, I guess that's saying that's profit?
That's your profit.
So $6.9 billion in profit.
I was wrong.
So I think it was $8.7 billion.
$6.9 billion.
Now, take a wild guess what Apple brought in.
A wild guess what Apple...
$97 billion.
I want to say it's a $97 billion in profit.
So 2003 Apple revenue should be around $97 billion.
Sipples.
That's okay.
So yeah.
$383 billion.
$97 in net income.
$97 billion.
Right.
So now I want you to imagine that you're a congressman.
And there's two guys sitting in your lobby.
Okay.
And one guy is from Apple.
They both got briefcases full of money.
One guy is from Apple.
One guy is from Lockheed Martin.
Who are you asking into your office first?
Apple.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's no military industrial complex.
I bet if you look up Pfizer,
I don't know what the numbers are for Pfizer
or for pharmaceutical companies.
Yeah, but what about...
Who's the Mike Turner, I believe?
The guy who is the Ohio congressman.
And he was the guy...
There was all these...
All these...
I don't know if you heard about the recent UAP hearings
that were happening and they were trying to disclose.
There was a bill and in there,
there was like this disclosure bill or whatever
where I think it was Battelle Memorial Institute
and Wright Patterson Air Force Base
and a bunch of the aerospace corporations
that were based in Ohio were supposed to divulge
all this secret information
and divulge all their classified documents.
And this guy was the only guy
who was stopping that bill from going through
and he was the representative of that district
where those companies were based.
And obviously those companies were lobbying for it
and you can't deny that there's a ton of influence
with these military contractors in the United States.
So one thing that they do bring to the table
is they do bring high-tech jobs.
So I think it's about 2 million Americans
work in aerospace roughly, roughly about 2 million.
But how many realtors are there?
How many nurses are there?
How many teachers are there?
So maybe back in the 50s or so,
I think Eisenhower gave his military industrial complex speech.
I think it was in 1961 where he gave that speech.
We warned about the military industrial complex.
Now maybe back then when you had multiple defense contractors,
now I think you basically have five.
Okay. Well, there's one Apple.
Can you look up total revenue for, what are the big five?
It's Lockheed, Boeing, Raytheon, Northup Grumman,
Northup Grumman, McDonnell Douglas.
What is it? Is it like a name, big five?
Top five defense contractors, you could probably say.
Top five defense contractors revenue for 2023.
So Lockheed Martin was 63 and now we're looking at,
I'm sure this is like gross revenue.
Gross revenue, 63 million.
RTX was 39 billion.
Northup Grumman was 32 billion.
Show more rows.
And if you also, if you look at our budget,
so I believe our budget is roughly,
oh god, you're going too fast, there you go.
30 billion for Boeing, General Dynamics, 30 billion.
So if you add these up, they're going to be,
I mean, we spread them out.
We don't just do one contractor.
Well, it depends on what you're buying.
Like if find me a radio that isn't from L3Harris,
that's that they manufacture essentially all the radios.
Right, right, right.
And what about the, those new millit,
those new nuclear submarines that they're doing?
Well, they're the Columbia-class submarines.
Yeah, Google that, the new Columbia-class nuclear
submarines price.
And who is producing those?
9 billion per unit.
The planned Columbia-class submarine is drawn in 2019
by Naval Sea Systems Command.
Cost is 109.8 billion for 12 boats, projected in 2021.
And 9.15 billion per unit.
And they're building them now.
All right, here we go.
They're also going to last for about 30, 40 years.
So yeah, so they're placed the Ohio-class nuclear submarines.
But that, I mean, that's crazy money.
And why do we need,
why do we need more of these nuclear submarines?
Ah, I'll tell you why.
Because for every nuclear submarine you see,
there's two you don't see.
Right.
Because for every nuclear submarine that's out at sea,
one is going through training and one is going through refitted depot.
So you don't need one nuclear submarine, you need three.
All right.
If there's an accident or something like that,
then you need to shuffle things around.
So whenever you see a nuclear submarine,
you always have to think in threes.
Really, that's the case for almost any piece of military equipment,
at least any ship.
You know, we have, I think we have 11 aircraft carriers right now
and three are on patrol.
There's the Eisenhower in the,
the Gerald R. Ford in the Mediterranean, I believe.
There's the Eisenhower in the Red Sea.
And the Ronald Reagan is in Japan right now.
Yeah.
Wow.
I believe, yeah.
And there's a couple of amphibious landing ships that are also,
that are also around.
Yeah.
It's interesting to me how, you know,
in the media, if you just pay attention to the,
the headlines, the daily headlines of the people that are
the most outspoken against these wars, right?
Like the Russia-Ukraine war or even if it's funding the,
you know, Israel-Hamas war,
they're not talking about like those submarines
that we're spending $10 billion a piece on.
Yeah.
How many are we buying?
I don't, I don't know how many Columbia class,
I don't know how many of the, of the boomers,
the Ohio class boomers we have,
but it's probably around 20, maybe we have 20.
You think we only have 20?
I think it's around that number, probably 20.
How many Ohio, how many Ohio class nuclear subs does the US have?
So.
I saw this in Annie's new book, that nuclear war book.
She has this incredible map.
I think I sent it to you before, Stephen.
We've talked about it on the podcast a few times.
It's a map.
18, 18 Ohio class.
Submarines that contain 14 ballistic missiles for submarines.
Yeah, four of them were taken out of service to,
I think they were replaced with cruise missiles,
conventional cruise missiles,
it's basically arsenal ships.
All right.
So we can, we can fire conventional cruise missiles at bad guys.
Oh, really?
Well, those, those subs have those MIRV rockets on them, right?
Yeah, yeah.
The multiple reentry vehicles.
Yeah.
Where so each rocket, I think each missile has
three warheads on each one, I think it is.
Uh, I can't remember whether it's three or time,
if that's easy enough.
They're called Trident Missiles.
Right, right, right.
That's just like mind-bending technology to me.
We've tried that technology since the 60s.
We can launch this thing and then it, computer,
computer tells each little warhead what target to hit.
That's just wild to me.
Yeah.
And actually, you know, the, the funny thing,
I don't know if you've ever heard of the U2 spy plane.
Oh, of course.
Yeah.
So, uh, we actually didn't really realize the earth was kind of egg-shaped
until we sent U2s up.
Really?
Like the information was like, wow, that's kind of weird.
It's wide earthy.
The telemetry for our missiles back in the 60s was wrong.
Back in the 50s and 60s was wrong.
We were going to miss cities by like miles.
Oh, really?
Yeah, because we were dealing with this spherical earth.
Yeah.
Instead of a kind of an egg-shaped earth.
So, yeah, it was the U2 that figured out like,
wait a minute, the earth isn't exactly what we thought it was.
Wow.
U2 is a fascinating plane.
U2 is a fascinating plane.
And it's still on service.
They still got that thing flying.
What about the, uh, the SR-71, is it the Blackbird SR-71?
Yeah.
That's, now that's why they created Area 51.
Was to develop those, um, those, those, uh, those planes back in the day.
And I think they, so, um, no, that was the U2.
So it was first, I think, the U2 was why they actually created Area 51 to develop that U2.
And then the, the SR-71 came after that.
Now, have you heard of the Glomar Explorer?
Remind me.
Oh, all right.
So this is, there was a, uh, the book.
I think it was called The Taking of K-19.
Now, uh, back in the early 1960s, I believe, this, uh,
Russian ballistic missile submarine was out in the Pacific.
And there was a, uh, a failure.
It was, uh, the K-19.
You can see it, Glomar Explorer is fine too.
Glomar Explorer.
Yeah.
So this, this is like a spy novel, but it's real.
So, uh,
Oh yes, I have heard of this.
Yeah, we just talked about this on a podcast.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, this, this,
The Russian submarine.
Russian submarine went down and they're like, I, we think we know where it is.
And so the government went to Howard Hughes and said, will you,
will you come up with a fake ship that you're going to mine for
manganese nodes, which is something crazy that Howard,
you know, Howard Hughes would do, right?
Right, right.
And, uh, Howard Hughes said, yes, I'll help you out.
They built this ship.
They went, got the submarine.
They picked it up off the ocean floor, broken half.
And we got a little bit of it, but we got some code books
and we learned some Russian nuclear secrets.
And it's probably one of the best kept secrets.
Howard Hughes is somebody I've really been wanting to learn more about
because he's come up on so many podcasts recently.
And I've like, I've been like hearing all about his connection to like CIA
and like the deep state.
He was a, I don't know if there's a such a thing as a deep state either, but,
but I, well, I've worked for the government.
Like if they knew what they were doing, I would be,
I can't even get a time sheet process correctly.
I don't really envision there's people behind the scenes pulling the strings.
Why don't you pull the strings on my freaking time sheet
while we're at it?
I, you know, use the wrong charge code.
You should have did 0.003 instead of 0.002.
And I got to resubmit this damn time sheet.
I don't know.
The, the Howard Hughes is a fascinating guy.
I guess if you got Elon Musk on the show, pretty much be the same thing.
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, Howard Hughes is basically Elon Musk, right?
Or Elon Musk is Howard Hughes.
Yeah, you're right about that.
You know, that you have the centric guys who are good at a great many things, right?
Uh, who've excelled in multi-disciplines, right?
That's, that's a pretty fascinating thing as well.
I mean, Howard Hughes raced planes.
He did movies.
He owned a defense contractor.
And I'm sure there are other, other things that I'm not even aware of.
I had this guy in the show a few months ago by the name of Danny Sheehan.
He's a famous, have you heard of him?
Famous lawyer.
He was a part of, he litigated the Pentagon Papers case.
I ran Contra and Watergate.
He's part of the Watergate investigation.
And he was blowing my mind with some stuff about Howard Hughes, explaining how
Howard Hughes was really close with Nixon before Nixon was president.
He is the one who basically convinced Nixon to set up the assassination teams to take out Castro.
The, the, um,
Yeah, the Communist dictator.
The anti-communist Cubans exiles to, um, assassinate Castro.
And those guys originally were the same guys they used for the Watergate burglary.
Oh, that's interesting.
And it's like somehow like Howard Hughes is just tied into all these crazy conspiracies, man.
Yeah, Bacardi actually had a hand in that as well, the Bacardi Rum Company.
The Bacardi Rum Company tried buying, I think it was a B-25 bomber and several bombs from like a
Central American country to attack power plants.
And yeah, to attack power.
There is, there's a whole book about that, how Bacardi tried to participate in, in taking back Cuba.
Have you seen that, I don't know if they still have it, they might have decommissioned it,
but they created this, basically this barge that floated out in the Pacific that had this
radar ball on it.
You know what I'm talking about?
Uh, it's for intercepting, we're looking at missiles, you know, like intersets.
It's probably one of the largest objects I think we ever created.
Yeah, radar ball and barge in the Pacific.
Yeah, it's the X-band radar.
X-band, yeah, look at this thing is insane looking.
Look at that.
It's like a football stadium boat.
It's like something from Contact, remember that movie?
Yeah, yeah, it is like something from Contact, huh?
Jeez.
Yeah, I mean, it's definitely, it's definitely an interesting machine and highly necessary
for the defense of the country.
You know, Sibers, which is the space-based infrared system, I can't do everything, right?
Right, right.
So once, once a missile goes out of boost phase, bad guys are shooting missiles at us.
Once that missile goes out of boost phase, you know, it's, it's kind of coasting, right?
So we kind of, we kind of need to know where that is.
And that's where the radar comes in.
So Sibers is...
Space-based infrared system.
There's, it's a constellation.
Satellites that basically are flying all around the globe, right?
I think there's four of them and they're, they're far out there.
I want to say 200,000 miles out, something like that, geostationary orbit.
So they're just looking down.
So 200,000 miles is far.
It's far.
That's far.
That's my, if I remember correctly, again, I'm doing all this remembering.
That's, that's a funny thing.
Like I remember when I used to listen to podcasts and go,
whoa, whoa, you're wrong about this.
And now I'm on podcasts and I got to pull this fact out of the, the two brain cells,
you know, rub two brain cells together.
That's the nature of podcasts.
That's the, exactly, man.
That's just the nature of podcasts.
You're always going to, you know, we're just talking, right?
We're not, I mean, we're trying our best to fact check stuff with Steve over here.
So the space station, I believe, is closer than Sibers.
Oh yeah. Space station is kissing the atmosphere.
Right, right.
But Sibers is way up there.
And that's how we can identify rockets being launched.
So when the Houthis decide to, to toss rockets, you know, we can see the, the launch.
We can see the ignition of the fire coming at the back of the rocket.
Yeah, for things other than like, if, if we're talking about like a shy head drone,
you know, that's, that's a little bit tougher.
That's a lawnmower engine.
All right.
You're not detecting that on Sibers.
That's, that's basically, you take a motor, you take a lawnmower engine,
you put it on a hobby drone with a, with a 20, 20, 20 kilogram warhead.
Yeah.
You know, if tossed out of the ship, it's a really cheap solution.
I think it, I think of the shy head costs about $20,000, I mean, maybe $200,000.
They might be off by zero, but not a lot.
Not a lot for the chaos that it costs us.
No, did you, when you were in the army, did you guys ever have to use Sibers technology?
No, that's not even, Sibers is a relatively new constellation.
Okay.
So it wasn't.
That's Lockheed.
Yeah.
As a, it's a Lockheed warhead satellite.
As, as Ryan McBeth infantry grant.
No, you're not getting satellite footage.
That's just, it's not only call of duty where if I get five head shots, I get a satellite.
No, that doesn't, doesn't work that way.
The, me, I would have been just been happy with extra chow.
We're like hot chow, maybe, right?
A baloney sandwich.
A shower, right?
Yeah.
No, that's, that's nothing like that.
I'm sure special forces guys, they have access to immediate satellite feeds and things like that.
And actually, there are, I mean, there is a tool called BFT, Blue Force Tracker.
That's a, that was technology that we had during Iraq and BFT,
BFT saved a lot of lives and was a really useful piece of technology.
It's also called FBCB2 or like force battle brigade and below something 2000 at BCB2.
This, this piece of software was in many vehicles and was essentially a moving map display
plus a text messaging display.
So you could, you could use that to chat and be like, Hey, I'm, I'm in this area over here.
You also had a GPS receiver which sent up your location.
So everybody knew where you were.
You knew where everybody else was.
And yeah, FBCB2, it saved.
Yeah, there's a little computer terminal and it's in your vehicle and you can type up messages.
You can do operations orders on it.
There's a newer version of FBCB2 and I can't seem to remember the name of it.
But yeah, that's that we have that tech 20 years ago and it's, it's really useful
because it lets everybody know where you are.
Sometimes it doesn't work.
Like sometimes you're, you're out on the road and you get a call like, Hey,
Boardwalk, Boardwalk 37, where are you?
You haven't left the yard yet.
I'm on Michigan.
What are you talking about?
You know, your software just hadn't updated, you know.
Right, right.
So sometimes that happens as well.
What's the wildest, most exotic weapon technology you've ever been aware of?
Oh boy.
Wildest, most exotic weapon technology that I have ever been aware of.
Or, you know, that you know about.
That's, uh, well, probably the wildest weapon is a Marine and his rifle.
I'm not, I'm not, uh, yeah.
Maybe it's not exotic, but I gotta tell you, the Marines, I've shot in the Marine Corps
a course of fire before and Marines are some stone cold killers.
This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Bubbs.
Bubbs Naturals is a badass company that has collagen peptides.
It has coffee creamer, has coffee electrolytes, and they are amazing because they are a tribute
company to a Navy SEAL and former CIA contractor, Glenn Bubbs Doherty, who died defending American
freedom in Benghazi, Libya.
Again, there is obviously no shortage of collagen products available on the internet,
but I support Bubbs because it is not only a superior product, but they support American
veterans by donating 10% of all their proceeds to veteran organizations and 100% of their proceeds
on Veterans Day.
Bubbs Collagen Peptide packets are easy to use as a daily supplement.
I keep them in my truck and I drink them on the way to the gym.
It's flavorless, easy to mix nature, makes it easy to mix into anything.
I prefer mixing it in coffee.
You may not know, but after the age of 25, your natural production of collagen starts
to fade, which can severely impact your skin.
And an interesting thing about collagen is the more you supplement with it, the more
your natural production increases.
Since I started using it a few months ago, I've already noticed a huge improvement in
my joint connective tissues, my skin elasticity, and the overall quality of my hair, believe
it or not.
You can support Bubbs and this podcast by visiting BubbsNaturals.com and using the
code DJP at checkout for 20% off your first order.
Again, that's BubbsNaturals.com and use the promo code DJP at checkout for 20% off.
It's linked below.
Now back to the show.
Shooting out to 500, 500 yards.
And the army at 500 yards were still making coffee.
And I let us know when they get to 300.
All right.
Marine Corps course of fire is hard and you're shooting standing, sitting, kneeling,
doggy, missionary.
There's all these freaking positions you're shooting.
The army changed their course of fire.
So now you're actually shooting standing and kneeling and prone and so on.
But Marine Corps is, they have a very difficult rifle qualification.
But honestly, probably the most exotic weapon.
I've never personally seen it, but there used to be a weapon called the OICW,
Objective Individual Combat Weapon.
And it was basically as large as a piece of plywood.
But it was a German G36 rifle.
It was one barrel.
And the other barrel was a five shot 20 millimeter grenade launcher.
I think it had five grenades.
Yeah.
The XM29 OICW.
Holy shit.
And that thing, it looks heavy and it was.
And it was one of those things that was sounded like a good idea at the time.
Gosh, it's ugly.
Yeah.
So what is it?
Can you show a video of somebody shooting it?
There's probably videos out there.
And the whole idea of this weapon system was that soldiers are wearing modern body armor now.
So we need a way to defeat that modern body armor.
And soldiers, they're hiding in urban areas or they're behind a wall.
So that gun had a setting for, it basically looks like the gun from Starship Troopers.
For people who are listening and watching.
Looks like the gun from Starship Troopers.
And that 20 millimeter grenade launcher, you could laze a window and set the thing for window mode.
And then you could shoot a round through that window and it would explode inside the room.
So the round, now the problem is that the rounds cost like $200 around for the 20 millimeter.
Right.
That's just not a sustainable thing.
And right now the army did a video about a recently,
there's a weapon called the XM7, which is scheduled to replace the M4 for infantry units.
The XM7 and the XM250, which is a machine gun version.
So that uses a larger round, a 6.8 millimeter round, which is designed to penetrate body armor.
So that has an advanced sight on it that can give you distance.
Kind of tell you where you need to shoot.
And then the 6.8 millimeter round does the rest of the work.
And it can even supposedly penetrate body armor after going through cinder block.
So the people who are adversaries who are going to be fighting in the future,
they are going to be wearing body armor.
Is this the XM7?
That is the XM7.
Yeah, that's a SIG spear actually.
Yeah, that says the XM5, but originally it was called the XM5.
They had to change the name to XM7 because Colt actually had a copyright on XM5.
Yeah, you can buy that now, the SIG spear.
If you want to spend $3,000, you can.
I don't know if they have the 2.8 millimeter version now yet, but yeah.
Oh, I love this guy.
This guy's channel is insane.
He shoots those dummy skeletons that like simulate.
Have you ever seen this?
Oh, I haven't.
So this guy tests out all these different guns on this.
I guess it's like a replica of a human body in jelly.
It's like he puts the organs and the skeleton inside of this thing.
Oh, it was Grantham.
He's very popular.
He's a 3.7 million subscribers.
Fast forward.
There you go.
Yeah, show that.
So he just showed the bullet going through it.
Yeah.
Yeah, the gun YouTube thing, that's tough these days.
Oh, yeah.
Because you never know.
I get demonetized just by saying certain keywords.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, God, yeah.
I was demonetized this morning.
I was demonetized doing the video when I was at the airport saying like,
hey, I'm coming to Danny's podcast.
Yeah, so I made two videos.
I was on the treadmill this morning and I'm like,
crap, I got to get this video out.
Right?
And so I made a little video.
There was a guy, there was an incident in New York City where
Oh, we saw that.
The guy lit himself on fire.
That's new.
Oh, OK.
That one's new.
I wasn't referring to that.
But there was the pro-Hamas protester who tried to shove and then punch a dude
like an Israeli dude in New York City.
And, you know, there were a number of people who were saying like,
oh, if that guy had a gun, you know, and I'm like, dude,
if you had a gun, you shouldn't be there.
I carry a gun.
Carry a gun on a daily basis.
When I go to the super mar, I've had death threats.
What's the guy they say how to gun?
The Israeli guy who's assaulted.
Right.
And, you know, it's, to me, this is one of those situations where
once you start carrying a weapon, now it becomes your obligation
not to get into situations where you have to use it.
Yes, exactly.
So, you know, I made a little video about that and then I segwayed into talking
about coming on your show.
So I don't know if saying the word Hamas got me demonetized.
I don't know if saying the word concealed carry got me demonetized.
I don't know.
I'm on some list on YouTube.
I am on some list.
And, you know, I try my best to conform to YouTube standards.
Like, I've never once tried to like get around it.
Like, I'm always like, I'll play by the rules.
Just let me know what the rules are.
I wish I knew what the rules were.
You're preaching at the choir, man.
I really do.
Yeah.
We just got demonetized for like the first time in a long time on one of our podcasts
just because the guys dropped the F bomb too many times.
He's an Australian guy.
So like, that's kind of like second nature to them.
I feel like that's kind of like racist to censor an Australian guy for the F word
because F word is like, is like, I don't know.
It's a comma.
It's like a vowel, right?
It's a vowel.
Yeah.
I guess so.
I mean, I am not the greatest question in the world, but I actually, I don't swear
and I don't talk about sex on my YouTube channel.
I'm your standard Christmas and Easter Protestant.
But I, I don't know.
Like I've always, I've always, like I don't mind.
I'm proud of the fact that like a dad can sit down with their kid and watch my videos.
Yeah.
And not have to worry about what they're going to see.
They might see someone getting their head cut off.
You know, like they might see that, but I'm not going to do anything that they won't be
able to explain to your kid later.
Right.
Right.
And actually a lot of the super violent stuff, I end up putting on my sub-stack anyway
because I know that YouTube isn't going to allow it.
So I don't even try, right?
Yeah, man.
It's really hard to navigate the internet and the media these days, especially with wars,
because, you know, there's so much marketing and so much propaganda from every single side
involved.
So it's the amount of work that goes into actually understanding what's really going on,
not only all, not only just like paying attention to the nuance, but paying attention to like
the filters that are coming in from each side, like Israel saying this, Hamas is saying this,
American leftists are saying this, American conservatives are saying this.
Like it's a lot of work to really know what's going on.
Well, I think even just 20 years ago, we had the internet, but we still watch the nightly news.
Right.
So essentially everyone was getting their news from three sources, maybe four.
Right.
Right. ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, Fox News is around then too.
So one of five sources.
Pardon me.
So I think nowadays that everyone can have their news hyper-targeted toward them.
There may be things that you actually miss on both sides and
ground news is one of my sponsors.
Oh, really?
I actually pay for ground news myself.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a cool thing they got going over there.
It's useful because there are some subjects that I would never see if it wasn't for ground news.
So yeah, they do a great job of like basically showing you who the sources are of each article
and how accurate it could be.
And if it's left leaning or if it's right leaning and gives you a good 30,000 foot view of what's
really going on.
Absolutely.
But you know, there's also like there's censorship, man.
I mean, there is, there's big mainstream American publications that are very much propaganda.
It's not just international propaganda, right?
Like my friend, I don't know if you've ever heard of Jack Murphy.
He has a podcast called the Teamhouse Podcast.
He was a, I might fuck this up, but Google Jack Murphy.
I think he was a ranger and he was in Syria.
And I believe Iraq for a long time.
And after he got, after he left war, he created a podcast.
Okay.
Yeah, there, let's read his bio, see what he really is.
He's in the manosphere.
No, well, yeah, go back to his Wikipedia.
I guess I'm in the uncle's sphere.
Oh, this is not him.
Why does it say podcast?
I don't know.
They had that wrong.
Click, click that journalist on the right.
See, see results about Jack Murphy journalist.
There you go.
There you go.
Go down as far as it says about on the right.
Yeah.
He's a eight year army special operations veteran who served as a sniper and team leader
in the third range of battalion and as a sniper weapons sergeant on a military free trial team
or military free fall team in the fifth special forces group growing up in New York.
Okay.
So yeah, here's a weapons guy too.
Yeah, dude.
He's the man.
He has a great podcast.
You should talk to him on your podcast.
That'd be cool.
Or either or you go on his podcast.
I mean, I would go on his.
I don't, you know, I don't have the podcast in the sense of like interviewing people.
I don't think I'd be good at that.
You know, I'd want to do all the talking.
That's okay.
I'm really, I'm really good at explaining things.
Who do a lot of talking.
I don't know.
I mean, I guess I do that now with my audience, right?
My audience sends me questions in and ask me questions and I do these roundup videos.
So I think I'm up to 22, 22 different roundup because I was, I must get, I'm not even lying.
I must get a hundred emails a day.
And it's just, Ryan, can you tell me why this is happening?
Ryan, is this disinformation?
Ryan, is this, you know, I mean, and that's in addition to like, I don't say legitimate emails,
but emails from like my agent, emails from, you know, whatever, like, hey,
we really want to work with you on this thing.
You know, that's why at some point you need an agent because then you just send that stuff over.
Like just take care.
This is why I'm paying you 20%, just take care of it, right?
Yeah.
So what I was saying about Jack, he, you know, he obviously went to the, you know,
the journalism route and he has his podcast as well as he has a website where he does,
you know, investigative pieces where he, you know, he'll write articles and stories about
certain things. And I think it was during the beginning of the Russia-Ukraine conflict,
he wrote a story where he spent probably a year working on it with his sources.
He had multiple CIA sources.
And he, the basis of the story was that CIA was, let me see if I can remember this the
right way. The CIA was using a proxy intelligence, a NATO intelligence ally embedded in Russia.
And to, to carry out a sabotage campaign on munitions warehouses and trains, you know,
basically, you know, blowing up train tracks, blowing up ammunition depots and letting them
on fire and stuff like that. And because of the international rules of war or whatever it might
be, CIA wasn't physically feet of boots on the ground, but they were using a NATO ally to conduct
this stuff, right? And he wrote this long story. He had a very big, one of the top three publications
in the United States that was on board with it. They were going back and forth with the editor
from that publication for a long time. And the process is with those publications is
right before you publish that thing, this specific news outlet had to get the green
light from the deputy director of the CIA. They got on a three-way call with the deputy director.
And he, they basically said, you know, we need to get your blessing on this. He says,
this is all bullshit. None of this is, she's like, this is not true, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So Jack said, okay, thank you for that. I'll make sure I include that in the footnotes of,
or I'll include that in the article that you, the CIA denies this, right? I mean, it's, it's not
ridiculous or it's not, it's totally understandable that the CIA wants to keep covert ops off the
front pages, right? So a couple of days go by calls the editor of the publication and they said,
sorry, we're not going to publish it. Not, we can't just include the deputy director's comments
that it's all, none of it's true that they, or that they deny all this. We straight up aren't
going to publish the story. So he published it on his own website. And that's just an example,
like that's just one example of what I'm sure is ubiquitous. Well, that's, that's the question,
right? Like if, if you burn one of your, sort of like, you burn one of your, your sources,
you know, or are they, they might be less inclined to help you again, right? I, I recently,
while I was on the ride over here, I got a message from the army because I'm supposed to go down to
Fort Nova cell, which used to be Fort Rocker. And I'm going to do a video about how the army does
pilot training for their helicopters. And I got to tell you armor reserve helicopter pilot, it is
the best kept secret in the military because you, you know, because a twin engine is twin engine,
right? So you go, you get 750 hours doing pilot training in the army reserves, they can go fly
for Southwest, right? You just go right into Southwest, they'll handy the keys, they'll go
right into the Southwest training program. So if you want a job, you look into the army reserves,
become a reserve helicopter pilot, and now you're flying for Southwest reunited a couple of weeks
after flight school with the army. Huh? Yeah. So the, the army is having a heck of a time
recruiting pilots right now, at least the army reserves is and best darn kept secret. So I'm
going to go down there and then shadow a couple of pilots, going to go through some flight training
and so they'll put me in a simulator, you know. Now, when I write this story, am I going to talk
about how the army kills puppies with their helicopters? No. I'm going to talk about, you
know, like, Hey, this is an amazing thing. This is, now I'm never going to lie in a video,
but I'm going to give them a, certainly give this a positive spin. I want them to invite me back,
right? So in a case like your friend, it could just be as simple as the newspaper was like,
you know what, we have contacts at the CIA who let us know when there's breaking news.
And if we burn these contacts, then they're not going to do that again. And that's, that's,
that's still a big problem though. I mean, because that's the whole, that's the whole,
that is what journalism is, putting exposing power, you know, truth to power and, and exposing
corruption. And when something as powerful as the CIA is getting in the way of that,
that's a huge problem. Assuming it was true. That's the other thing. Yeah. Like that. So that's,
that's the other, that's the other thing that kind of pops up in the intelligence community.
I would say that there was a non-zero chance that CIA, and it's, it's interesting because it,
because you say it right sometimes. You never say the CIA, you say CIA. Right, right, right,
or the agency. So it's fun. I just popped into my head. There have been plenty of girls I've
dated in the Washington DC area. Well, who do you work for? That's the first question you ask
when you're dating in DC. Oh, really? Yeah. You need to know like where you are in the hierarchy,
right? Because if you work for an NGO, you're down here. You're down the lowest level. If you
work for like the coalition for teaching Africans how to drink water, right? Like that's, that's at
the bottom, right? But if you work in the White House or at the top, if you're a contractor for
like an agency like Lightos, you're, you know, you're a little bit down here below, but if you
work on the hill, you're a little bit above. Say, so one of the first questions you're on a date,
so who do you work for? Right? That's because they need to know, all right, if I date this guy,
am I going to be higher or lower in the hierarchy, right? Oh, wow. And so I've met girls, I work for
the State Department. And as soon as they say that, I'm like, okay, I already know what you're
talking about, I'm not going to bring it up again. Yeah. If you say, oh, I work for the State
Department, yeah, you're CIA. Right, right. Oh, I'm part of the grain initiative for Vietnam.
Okay.
Like, I know, I've lived in D.C. long enough to, yeah, okay, I'm not going to ask any more
questions about that. Right, right. But yeah, the story could be wrong. And they could have
come up with information that I look, we're not publishing this, not only you're wrong,
you're dead wrong, and everyone you talked to was lying to you. That could, they're,
they're, in the intelligence community, you have the saying there was a non-zero chance,
right, of that happening. So is it possible that they were doing this? It's possible. I could see,
I could see direct action against Russia, especially in the interests of Ukraine.
So the U.S. has a vested interest- What does that mean, direct action against Russia?
Actually taking kinetic steps, like blowing up, not necessarily blowing, so you wouldn't blow
over rail, because rail, they can fix rail like that, right. But ammunition factory,
something like that, I could see something like that happening. That doesn't necessarily mean
that we're doing it. I would not be surprised if, if the Ukrainians are doing it. I mean,
from what I understand, Ukrainians, they, they sneak into Russia all the time, they launch
drones. Right. Like crazy. And they, they have a whole, but it's a little bit, I'll say it's a
little bit easier. I mean, you show me a Ukrainian, you show me a Russian, tell me the difference,
right. And one, the one thing, Ukrainians can speak Russian. Russians can't necessarily speak
Ukrainian. So it's easy, easier for a Ukrainian to pass themselves off as Russian than for a Russian
to pass themselves off as Ukrainian. And then there was the whole, there was the whole debacle
with the Nord Stream pipeline, where everyone denied it. And then we found out that Ukraine did
it. You know, I'm not even sure about that either. I, yeah, there's a, so one of the best books I
ever read is a book called The Field Guide to Understanding Human Error. And it's by a guy
named Sidney Decker. And I would never attribute to malice anything that can be attributed to accident.
So you take a look at, I was, I had a whole story on my sub-stack about the Karkova Dam
and how people said, oh, the Karkova Dam was blown up. And I showed how the dam was like being
undermined. So essentially on this dam that was over the Nipro River, it was a couple months ago.
Actually, it was last year, around last year, there was this dam on the Nipro River and the dam
collapsed. Some people said it was blown up. Some people, well, I looked at the dam and I bought
this was in Ukraine. Ukraine. So over the Nipro River and the Karkova Dam. Now this particular
dam had multiple spillways. In a spillway, it's just like a guillotine. You lift that thing up,
it allows water to go through. Okay. So it was during the spring, I believe spring of last year,
it was this dam, and the water was very high because it was the spring melt. And the far
section of the road, this dam spans the Nipro River. On the other side of the road, there are
the Ukrainians. On the south side of the dam, the south side of the Nipro River are the Russians,
north side of the Ukrainians. There's one section of the dam that had been blown up. It was like a
roadway that had collapsed already. The other Russians blew that up so the Ukrainians couldn't
move across it. Now, what do you have on the other side of that dam? You have snipers.
Ukrainians have snipers. They're watching that dam. So the only sluice gate, the only gate
that the Russians who were at the dam were opening was ones on the south side of the dam.
Well, and that happens, now you have undermining. Now that water comes through that gate,
it hits the bottom of the dam and it scrapes a little more water out. There's a little more
sub-material out. So I believe that dam, and just showing how a roadway collapsed days before the
dam collapsed, I believe what was happening was that the water that was going through this one
sluice gate, since they only had one open, was digging out a hole, digging out a hole,
digging out a hole until the dam gets undermined right there. And the force of the water on the top
of the dam and the force of the water digging underneath the dam pushes the dam right over.
So. And everyone thought this was sabotage? I don't think it was sabotage. I think the
Russians just didn't know how to, I don't believe it was sabotage. Right, but I'm saying people were
reporting that it was? People were reporting that the Russians blew it up. I don't think that was
the case. Right. And the New York Times said, oh, Sibersaw, they actually mentioned Sibersaw. I'm
like, this is one of those things, they're like, come on, New York Times. Yeah, how do you explain
that? How do you apply that to the Nord Stream, though? Like, that's how deep is that thing?
So here, look, hear me out on this possibility. Okay. All right. So the, the two pipelines,
okay, so Russia says, okay, we're not going to play this game anymore. And they turned the gas off
in the pipelines. Now the pipelines don't, now they're not pressurized anymore. So what happens
when you have something that's underwater that isn't pressurized? Well, water is getting in.
All right. So now you have water leaking in to those two pipelines. And now, now again,
I am not a pipeline expert, but I could easily see that there's some chemical in there,
that when the water reacts with that chemical that was in, that's still a residual chemical inside
of that pipeline. And now that creates some kind of acid or it creates hydrogen. And now
you only need is a spark. Right. And then because those pipelines aren't pressurized anymore,
one blows up, the gas that's remaining in the pipeline comes out of that hole. And since the
two pipelines are relatively the same thickness, the same thing happens in the other one, because
it's just a chemical reaction takes roughly the same amount of time. Now you have two pipelines that
are, now I don't know if that's the truth. Right. But the engineer in me looks at that and goes,
well, maybe it was sabotage, or maybe they just shut it down and went, oh crap. Yeah. How do we,
you know, we turned off the power to the, oh God, you have on the bridge in Tampa Bay,
there are these Sentinel, oh my God, sacrificial anodes. So the sacrificial anode is usually,
it's a piece of zinc that they'll attach to a, you're looking for sacrificial anode?
Yeah, I need to see this. Sacrificial anode. Yeah. So you have them on the bridge in Tampa Bay.
Go to images, I can see a bigger version of this. So it's usually zinc, it can be other metals as
well. Right. So these sacrificial anodes. Are they attached to the pilings? Yeah, they're attached
to the pilings so that they rust before the piling rusts. Right. Oh, wow. So that's the whole idea,
is these sacrificial anodes, they give up their electrons and they rust before the bridge can
actually rust. The one in, you have one in Tampa Bay on that bridge that goes across the,
I guess, Tampa Bay. So what's the goal, what's the purpose of it? So, well the purpose is to
prevent rust by sacrificing the zinc that, so the sacrificial anode will give up its electrons
so that the thing that it's protecting will rust. God, it somehow stops the piling from
rusting. So some of those, I believe, are electrically run, so it could be as something
as simple as they have sacrificial anodes along that pipeline, they turn off the electricity to them
and rust happens pretty darn fast. I mean, that could be a possibility too. Yeah. But I just,
I don't necessarily know if the Ukrainians blew it up or we blew it up or the Russians blew it
up, but I could easily see it being an accident because someone turned something off. Yeah,
I mean, look, that's, I mean, it's certainly a possibility, right? Certainly is. But, you know,
the point, I mean, the fact that there's just so much, there's so much propaganda and misinformation
and disinformation, it's just so hard to cut through all that these days with just this
overwhelming amount of information. There is. You're absolutely right. And then there's even a
different, well, there's a difference between misinformation and disinformation. What's the
difference? So with misinformation, you're getting the facts wrong. All right. So initially, I think,
did I get the number wrong for the amount of money that Lockheed Warren made?
You were off by one billion, maybe. I was off by one billion. So that was still,
that was misinformation, right? I got the facts wrong. But I didn't mean to. All right. I wasn't
like, I'm going to go on Danny, you know, I'm going to go on this show, I'm going to get the facts
wrong. It was in my head around that number, you know, 6.7 billion, something like that.
I think I said 8.7 billion or something like that. So that's misinformation. I gave out the wrong
information. Now, disinformation is, you know, me coming on here saying, it wasn't, it wasn't the,
wasn't the Russians. It wasn't the Ukrainians that blew the pipeline. It was the Poles.
How do you know that? Well, because if you, if you take the O in poll, that means petroleum
oil lubricants. So they know extensively about how pipelines work. P-O-L pipeline, poll, you see?
Yeah. You understand? Yeah. That's disinformation right there. That's me intentionally coming on
and lying. I'm actually impressed. I thought of that, that fast. And then there's, there's just
strategic deception as well. Wow. That's actually pretty scary. That could be used as a force for
evil very easily. My God. I hope I never do that again. Strategic deception. I've actually never
heard that term. That's, you tell me, tell me about that. So a great example of strategic
deception I learned about was when they was actually, in one of Annie Jacobson's book,
Area 51, when she was talking about the, when Area 51 was first created and they were testing out
the first jet propelled airplanes. And when the CIA pilots were flying these jet airplanes over the
desert, they had to be prepared for if they encountered a civilian aircraft. And somebody
saw these jet airplanes like, what were they going to say? So what they did was they brought
gorilla masks in the cockpit with them. So if they got in visual distance of a civilian airplane,
they would put on a gorilla mask. So what happens now when that guy goes to the bar and tells his
buddies, he saw a jet plane. He says, I saw a gorilla flying a jet plane. So it purposely injects
fuckery into something that's true. So no one will believe it. That was actually the case in that
book about the Glomar Explorer, the taking of K-19, where you had, they actually would give
manganese nodes. Now the cover story for the Glomar Explorer, the ship that was going to go
recover the submarine, they're going to mine manganese nodes on the floor of the ocean. And
it was something crazy that Howard Hughes would do. So one of the things that they did was they
gave these manganese nodes to security guards. And the idea was that these security guards are
going to go out to the bar and put this manganese node on the bar and say, Hey, this is what my
company's doing. We're mining these nodes. So now you get KGB guys in Burbank or wherever,
wherever the setup of this particular company was. Now they're going to go, Oh, I guess they
really are mining these manganese nodes. That is a level of strategic disinformation. So I actually
haven't heard that term before, but that's understandable. Yeah, there's a lot of another,
there's so many examples of it, but like it really mainly, I feel like it gets used in like
covert ops and like with development of like black technology and like secret technology.
Have you ever heard of Bob Lazar?
He's a UFO guy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The guy, I think it was in 1989, he came out with a story about
how he was contracted to go to Area 51, back engineer spaceships and flying saucers.
There was part of his story where like, whether you believe the guy or not, he tells this whole
story about how he was back engineering these crazy exotic crafts, right? Now, towards the end
of his story, he says, when they first brought him there, they showed him the spaceships,
they showed these crazy exotic flying saucers, which look, there's evidence of these things being
made, you know, after World War II by certain Nazis, the Horton brothers, they were creating these
crazy objects that were unexplainable and that could defy gravity. But when they were bringing
him out of Area 51, they brought him conveniently walked him down a hallway past a little window,
where he said we looked through the window and he saw two guys looking over a little alien body.
So I think that could have possibly been, whether he, I don't know if he's like,
A, he's making up the whole story or B, it really happened. And they purposely brought him by that
window to see a little alien in there. So that way, when he tries to go public, if he ever
tries to go public, this guy's a f***ing whack job. You know, I did a whole video about that. It
was last summer, there was the, there was the hearings, like a couple of former Air Force guys.
I forget the names of these gentlemen, but I did a whole video about that.
Commander Fravor and Ryan Graves.
And I, I actually thought about it and I looked at it from an intelligence perspective. Like,
what are the odds that we've actually been visited by aliens? And I looked at it from
an intelligence perspective and it wasn't until I thought about oxygen that I, that I actually
was kind of shocked. Like a lot of, so, you know, hear me on here. So doing my research this, and I
talked with a lot of scientists doing my research for this one video. And, you know, kind of breaking
down those hearings, not trying to just credit anyone, but just like looking at it from an
intelligence perspective, what is the likelihood that we've actually been visited by aliens?
And one of the things I thought of was that like, well, aliens would know we exist because of our
radio signals, right? Radio has been propagating for 150 years ever since McCroney sent that first
radio message, right? So they could tell where we are by our radio signals. Maybe.
There's something called mass spectrophobia, or a transit spectrophobia, where, when a planet goes
in front of a star, the light from that star will illuminate the kind of chemicals that are in the
atmosphere, the kind of elements that are in the atmosphere. And from that, you can actually infer
the temperature and the quantity of those elements, but the kinds of light that are blocked.
So, if you want to get technical, one crazy thing about Earth is that we have oxygen. Now,
oxygen is the fourth most common element in the universe. However, oxygen is super reactive.
If tomorrow, like all the plants stopped making oxygen,
we would be out of oxygen within like 4,000, 5,000 years. It would all just bond to iron and become
rust, right? Iron oxide. So, if a planet ever transits a star, and aliens have their transit
spectrophobia machine pointed at that star, and they go, holy hell, there's oxygen on that star.
What the hell is making all this oxygen? They might want to check that out.
Now, we've had oxygen on this planet between 2.5, 3.5 billion years, roughly.
So, the aliens have had, if they've detected us through going, what the heck's making all this
oxygen? Because remember, you constantly have to make oxygen because it's super reactive,
it's bonding to everything, right? So, they've had, so our planet's what, 5. something billion
years old? So, they've had a long time to come here. And I think that one of the conclusions I
came to was that there's almost no chance we've actually been visited by aliens because we'd
all be dead. You think we'd all be dead? Oh, yeah, absolutely. Because it's safer to kill us.
It's safer to kill us than to let us live. Maybe they don't need to kill us. Maybe we don't
matter. Maybe we're just like ants in a jungle. Maybe they just like do what they need to do,
and we don't really get in the way of them. Maybe. I mean, one of the things I talked about
in the video I did was one of the reasons people conquer is for religion. And just as I was doing
this video, there was this new species of tree frog that was found in the jungles of South America.
I'm sure that the team didn't try to convert the Catholicism. The frog wouldn't understand
anyway. So, there could be aliens that are so advanced that we couldn't even understand their
religious philosophies. One of the reasons people, you might say, oh, people, they take over plants
or resources. Well, any alien species that would come to Earth, they would, if they needed resources,
they could find those resources in place also. They wouldn't have to come here. There's nothing
other than that special about Earth. They have a lot of phosphorus, but anyone that has that level
of technology could probably figure out how to get phosphorus on their own. So, I think there's
almost no chance that we've been visited. And the analogy I gave was wine. Did you know that there
is a fake wine industry? I've heard of this. There are pretentious people. And the Koch brothers
are part of this. There's this guy named Rudy. And he's on California. And he was like passing
himself off as like this wealthy. I think it was Filipino or from... Is this that documentary
Sour Grapes? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it was a long time ago. I really remember it.
And you know, people, so essentially this guy was running around selling fake wine. And he was
finally caught when the label of the bottle, like, oh, I have the bottle of Domain 1945.
Well, they didn't make, the particular vineyard didn't make that bottle of wine back then because
there was, there had been a war and the vines were all destroyed and there were no workers.
So you can't have a bottle, so that bottle can't exist.
So I remember when I watched those hearings, you know, kind of the conclusion I came to is that
yeah, the wine was fake. So yeah, maybe... Do you think that maybe that this technology that these
Navy pilots were seeing was that was like real, like, black military technology?
It's a software update. It was just bad software update.
A bad software update? What do you mean? So like, if you have, I know you're talking about the tic-tac
of the video. If you have multiple planes seeing this artifact, it could just be a software thing.
Yeah, because it was right after they upgraded their radar. I'm a software engineer. I know how
we make mistakes sometimes. Well, Ryan said it was right after they
upgraded the radar and their jets that they started seeing these things. And he said one
of the things they saw was a sphere or a cube inside of a sphere. And I had a guy on here who
pointed out, Steve actually sent you an image of this on Dropbox. There was a patent for something
that he described that almost looks identical to what he described. He described that two guys
were flying in formation wing to wing, maybe, I don't know, less than 50 yards apart during some
sort of military exercise on the East Coast. And they both saw a sphere with a cube inside of it.
And then my buddy found this patent, a DRFM. Shout out to Jeremy Reese. He found this,
technology radar deflector balloons. And that's, so that's what he saw. He said he saw.
And this is a patent my buddy found, which is a, I think those deflector balloons were created
and tested before we did the Bay of Pigs to basically like fuck with Cuba's radar and make
it like simulate some sort of an invasion and see what they would do. Yeah. The Russians have
those on barges outside the Curt Strait Bridge. Those radar reflectors. Oh, really? Yeah. Because
their hope is, well, they can't lose that bridge. They lose that bridge. This is probably going to
be, this is probably going to be the year they lose the bridge. Where's the bridge go to again?
The Curt Strait Bridge connects Russia with Crimea. Ah, okay. And the bridge, the bridge was
attacked a couple of, the bridge was attacked two years ago. And I want to say in the summer,
we went to basketball season start. It must have been in October. Yeah. It seemed like
everywhere I go, every time I go away for something, something major happens. There is this girl I
was saying at the time, she took me to the home opener, the home opener. The wizards were playing
the, oh God, the wizards were playing in North Carolina. They were playing the Charlin Hornets.
Yep. Yep. And she took me there, got floor seats. It was really nice. Like, I am not a
wealthy guy. Wow. You know, but. This is the bridge. Yeah. The Curt Strait Bridge. So that was
built relatively recently. It was 2009. Can you see it on maps? We can see like Crimea kind of
connects to Russia. Yeah. So, yeah, you can find it on maps. So that bridge, if you zoom out,
you take out that bridge. Yeah, they've talked about building a bridge for a long time.
So you take out that bridge, now Crimea has to be replied by ferry or by boat or by air.
I believe they have a railway that now goes down the Russian-occupied area
in Zaporizhia and all the way down to Crimea. So it goes through the Donbass, through Zaporizhia.
So they're protecting that bridge. Oh, God, yeah. Yeah. Russia moves everything by rail.
They move a lot of stuff by rail as much as they can. And so that little rail bridge,
there's two rail tracks. It was actually attacked by a truck bomb in October of 2022.
And that was when I was at the basketball game. I was like, oh, crap, I got to go do a story about
this. Right? I got to do that. But yeah, if they take out that bridge, it's going to be a lot harder
for Russia to, and we still don't know who did it. It was a truck bomb that happened to blow up
right before, right as a train was going over. And so the train was damaged, the tracks were damaged,
the roadway was damaged. It was a bad day. It was a bad day for Russia. And I actually think that
was garden variety terrorism. We don't know who did it. I think some people said that, yeah, it was
that was a bad day. Yeah. What's that stuff?
Woo. Smelling salts. Do you want to try it? I got this. It's great. Trust me. I'm good. Have you
seen the guys who like it knocked out nice hockey or like boxing? Yeah. Oh my God, like jolt your
nervous system. Woo. Maybe it's a Florida thing. I guess. I mean, I know they have bath salts,
smelling salts, smelling salts, tomato, tomato. Florida is an amazing place. I actually
come down to Tampa quite frequently to do consulting. Oh, do you really? Yeah. For who?
Oh. Military contractor? Just whatever the contract is for. So it's really, really boring
stuff. But I usually get a chance to come down here about once a month at the least.
I love Florida, man. You got everything here. You got the coastline. You got all the
best fishing here. You got tons of wildlife. You got the Everglades, the Florida Keys.
It's one stop shop. I think the thing I like about it are these things. I light up a cigar in Tampa
and nobody ever complains. I do it in DC. I'm walking down the street. I get the whole,
you just took 10 seconds off my life. I mean, you probably would have wasted them anyway.
Right? Right. Maybe I did you a favor. It doesn't look like you're all that happy,
lady. How did you like Miami when you were down there? It wasn't the first time I'd been to
Miami, but I got to tell you the crazy thing about Miami. So I'm almost 50. The crazy thing is it's
so close to the U.S. So I was there for the Destiny podcast. I had no clue you were down there.
He's a great guy. He lives there. I got a chance to see his place. He went to dinner twice. He's a
great guy and his fans are the best too. They put me up in this hotel, this $900 a night hotel.
Wow. It was because it was near the studio and I wasn't going to deal them or whatever.
But so I'm in this hotel and I've never felt so poor. I'm a software engineer. I drive a Tesla.
I own a house. I make an okay living. I'm never going to be wealthy, but I do okay.
All right? I do okay. Between consulting, between YouTube, I do okay. I'm not super
wealthy. Right? But like I'm there and I went on to breakfast and there was this guy and he was
surrounded by six gorgeous young women and they're all wearing bikinis with like see-through cover-ups.
And I'm like, look, and the guy must have been like 25, 26, you know,
and they're talking about how they're going to go on the boat that day.
I don't know. We're going on the boat today. And I'm thinking like, how do you go on a boat?
Like, how do you go on a boat? Like, you know, I've never been on a boat.
Really? I mean, I've been on like a Navy ship. I've been on like an Elk hack. I've been on a
ferry in Staten Island. Like I've been on, but I've never been on like a pleasure boat.
Oh my gosh. Next time you come down here, we'll book an extra day and I'll take you fishing.
I've never been, I've never gone fishing.
Really?
The bait's over here. The beer's right here. Right? Like, no, you want me to what? You want to put
my hand in that and then touch a fish? Yeah. You know how I touch a fish? I go to Wegmans and I say,
touch that fish and give me that little filet. That's how I fish. That's, going fishing is going
to Wegmans and asking them to get me a filet of cod, right? So I've never been fishing, but
this guy's talking about the boat. I'm thinking like, how do you, like a boat can't pot.
I have a friend of mine who lives in Virginia Beach. I go down there once in a while. I might go
down there when I come back from here tomorrow. And they have boats. I have a paddle board that I
actually keep at this girl's place. And so there's this bay. It's called Linden Bay. I'll go paddle
boarding in Linden Bay. And there are these people, they line up these boats in Linden Bay
and they just kind of party all together on these. And I'm thinking like, how do you,
how much does this cost? It must be a $200,000 boat. Yeah. Who, who has $200,000 to buy a boat?
Like, it's just so, you know, like, it's just such a crazy thing to me. But again, like, I look at,
I look at my life where like, I literally live paycheck to paycheck where I'm like,
I'm waiting for that YouTube paycheck. Like, you know, like here, sir, may I please have some more?
And YouTube gives me that little, that little spoonful of gruel, right? Here's that little,
here's that 10%, you know, of all the ads that we sold. Oh, thank you, sir. May I have some more?
More? Here's the monetization. One of my ads anyway.
It's pretty cool though, how fast you grew your channel, man. Two years and you're,
you're almost to a million subscribers and your videos are seen by a lot of people.
Yeah. You know, what's, what's what I found crazy was that I've done consulting before and like,
there's people in Congress who watch my videos and I'm like, why are you doing that? I actually,
I had, I once had someone from the UN reach out to me and they asked me to identify some weapon
systems that were found in Ethiopia and I identified some Sagar missiles and some Chinese mortars
that were found. And then I was like, wait a minute, don't you have people that do this?
Why are you talking to me? Reach out to a YouTuber. And I guess like, so some of it
isn't that I'm just a YouTuber. I do, I do work in the intelligence space. I still do consulting,
you know, I still maintain a certain access to different kinds of information that I use
for my other job. Right. And that's, that's, that's great. But I just, I find it funny that like,
people like they, they look me up. They want it for patients. Like, I mean, I guess like, I,
I think the one thing that I kind of do is that I give it to them in a way that they can understand.
You know, and also I'm, I'm not political. And if, you know, I, I actually got off the phone with
my, my boss Rich from a company called Veloxity, it's a private intelligence company. So if you
want, let's say you're building a mine in, in, in Zambia, you're going to build a mine in Zambia.
All right. Well, is it, is it safe to go there? What's the government like? Is it, you know,
whatever, right? So you can hire Veloxity to come in and do a whole assessment on that country.
All right. Where are you going to be going? What are you going to be doing? Is it safe? Is it not
safe? Yes, it's expensive. You know, what else is expensive? Getting kidnapped. Right. Having your
business stolen by the government and appropriated as a state property, that's pretty expensive too.
Right. So if, if you think hiring Veloxity is expensive, where do you get a load of being,
you know, in a country you can't get out of, right? So if it's a good sales pitch.
Yeah. If, yeah. So if AOC wanted an intelligence assessment,
they should come to Veloxity, I would give her the best darn assessment I could give.
If Matt Gates asked her an assessment about something, I would give him the best one.
So that's, that's one of the reasons I can't ever get political in the content that I produce,
because there are real people who make actual decisions based on stuff that I do,
and I want them to be able to trust what I give them, you know. And, yeah.
What do you make of the attack that happened last night, literally, with Israel hitting
Iran with those bombs and those nukes? I think it was, it was last night, right?
So, I don't. Today's February 19th, yesterday was the 18th.
Yeah, it was last night. So, so number one, we don't know it was Israel. It was Israel,
right? Like, we don't, we don't know that, but who else is going to be doing it, right?
So that particular place, that was a factory, I think that, so I always screw up Farsi or Persian
names, I'm sorry, to all my Iranian fans, I know I screw it up because I speak Arabic,
but I don't speak Persian. Okay. So, and sometimes like the Arabic creeps in on that and they go,
no, no, no, no, no, sorry, guys. But it was, ifshtan, I think that, that was the name of the
town and there's an airbase north, I'm doing this from memory, north west of the town, north,
northwest of the town, and it's like a Havik airbase, it's not Havik, it's owned by this Iranian
company that produces aircraft. And this company has been around since the 1970s. And it stemmed
from, it stemmed from a company, it stemmed from Textron. Textron built a bell, oh god,
what's the name of that bell helicopter? I want to say like the 212, the 280.
The Huey?
It was the famous bell hill. Yeah, it looks like a Huey, but it's the civilian version of that.
It's probably fans who are yelling at me right now, like, no, it's the bell, I want to say the 212
or the 280. There'll be a comment below. I'm sure there will be. But if you look up the,
yeah, bell 407, yeah, it kind of looks like that one there. But it's the older one from the
1970s. It doesn't matter. So Textron actually built a factory, and that factory was taken over
by this specific Iranian company, and that's the place that they hit. So that particular company,
and again, I can't remember the darn name. If you look up the airbase from Ifstan,
and I might be pronouncing that wrong, Ifstan airbase, not Ramstein, Ifstan airbase Iran,
Ifstan. Yeah, I'm probably butchering that pronunciation. I know I screwed up the spelling.
It's okay. You know, I ran. There you go. Ifstan, Isfahan. Unbelievable. So Isfahan airbase,
and if you find a map of that, I'll actually be able to get you to the right.
Click maps. Well, I'm not going to type it incorrectly. Yeah, you got it.
You got it. You got it. Isfahan. You got a maps. Again, I have to do all this. So this is,
if you show the satellite view. Okay, now what we're looking at now, if you zoom out,
here's a city, it's in the middle of the desert. Now, if you go up a little bit and a little bit
to the left, Isfahan, go up, keep going up, up, up, up, up, up, up. Yeah. Yeah, you're getting
there. So up a little bit. There's to the right, you're almost there. There's an airbase a little
bit above. Yeah, I think keep going, keep going. Let's zoom out a little bit. But there should
be an airbase nearby. And that airbase is basically, it's a factory, kind of like how Burbank used
to have a, there used to be, oh, there HESA, HESA, that was it. Go back down, HESA. That's the name
of the company. Up, up, up, up, up more. I don't see anything. Keep going up, keep going up. Right
there, to the right, to the right, HESA. Oh, HESA aircraft. HESA aircraft manufacturing,
right there. If you go into satellite view, you'll see the airbase. That's what they hit.
Oh, really? You know what's crazy is I did all that for memory. This is why I don't have a girlfriend.
Because this is all I think about. Like I memorize facts like this. And I don't know everything,
but I know if you go to, if you go to that, that town Isfahan and you go up a little bit and, you
know, north, a little bit east of the city. I said, well, I say west thing, I should have said east.
I know you'll get to the HESA. And I remember that HESA, if you look up HESA manufacturing,
it may, it started out as a text drawn company.
Interesting. Yeah, from Bell, because Boeing, or Boeing text drawn, I mean, the Iranians were
making all sorts. They were using all sorts of American equipment. They still do. They're one
of the last people that fly. They are the last country that flies the F-14 Tomcat.
Really? Yeah, one of the reasons we got rid of the Tomcat, supposedly, is that, well,
number one, we want to concert on the Super Hornet and the F-35. But number two, like for every
Tomcat we produce, well, not produce, but for every Tomcat we make parts for, that's one part
that could theoretically go to Iran. And yeah. So yeah, I think like one of the first reports
that came out about this last night was that we, they sent, Israel sent missiles and drones over
there. And it hit like a big, a big shot meeting that was going on with like the head of the IRGC
was there. The guy who replaced Soleimani, right? HESA? Or are you talking about the Consulate
attack? No, not the Consulate attack happened, I think was like on the third or something like that.
And then the attack last night when Israel sent the rockets and the drones to Iran.
I heard that there was a report that they targeted some sort of meeting that was going on with like
the head of the IRGC. That's certainly possible. I realize weird like that. But then like it changed
and then I guess Iran came out and said, oh, it didn't work. Our anti-aircraft defense basically
knocked down everything and they just saved face. He said, nothing really happened. We're good here.
And now people are speculating that maybe they're trying to save face because they don't want it
to escalate anymore. They're trying to find an exit ramp to this. I'm sure they're like, like they,
so Iran has the leash of Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis in Yemen, right? Like the Houthis are
not making missiles. They're sitting around chewing cotton all day. Right. So someone hands
them a missile. They're like, oh, this is kind of cool. You know what? Let me shoot this in the
morning because I want to be high today. So yeah, I guess the Houthis would be the Florida man of
the Middle East. Really? You think about it, right? Wow. It's too hot to do anything anyway.
So, you know, I think that Iran, their fingerprints were all over the, so I kept, so one of the
things that I got, and I did a video on this, was I got an, what's called an op order, an operations
order from, that was recovered from a deceased Hamas member that was attacked, you know, that
did the October 7th attack. And the op order was there, the operations order, the SOI was there,
the signal operating instructions, what radio frequencies they were going to use, and mobile
phone numbers and all that. And I can't read Arabic as well as I used to. If you don't use it,
you lose it. But I had a number of people help me translate it. And some of these guys were actually
Palestinian refugees who were living, one of these guys was a Palestinian refugee, and he's
living in Syria now. And he was like, dude, Iran's fingerprints are all over this.
Wow, what do you mean by that? Because of their poor Arabic, like their
translation, like the way, the diction that Iranians would use. So, and I kind of,
the trust these guys on that, but a number of people said that. So, I was one officer in the UAE
Army, he helped me out with the translation as well. And I got a lot of good information out of that.
But like, they were planning this for two years. People said, like, oh, was Russia involved in
this? I don't think Russia had any freaking clue this was going to happen. They were planning this
for years. They were planning that for years. And I think that, that Iran was the enabler,
and that you had, you had people like, you know, Hamas is looking at Mahmoud Abbas, who is the
head of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. So, there's, I don't say that there's two
Palestinians. There's one Palestine. But in, in 2006, there were elections, Hamas won. And then
next week, Hamas just murdered everybody in Fatah, which is the other political party
over the course of a week. It was called the Battle of Gaza. So, after that, like, you had the West
Bank, which is ruled by Fatah, and then you had Gaza, which was ruled by Hamas. Mahmoud Abbas,
who runs Fatah or runs the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, that guy's 88 years old.
When you're 88 years old, there's not a lot left on the actual real tables.
Right. So, he's going to die soon. So, I'm sure Hamas is looking at that and they're going,
let's invade Israel. Let's grab a couple of prisoners. We're going to bring them back.
And for the next five years, Israel's going to try to get these guys back, you know,
in special operations, doing coin counterinsurgency. Right. And when Mahmoud Abbas dies, we'll say,
we'll give all these prisoners back if you let us have the West Bank. And now they have
total control. I think that was their plan. However, Israel said, coin, you want counterinsurgency?
And they gave them a Lisco sledgehammer to the face. Lisco means large-scale combat operations.
So, I think that, you know, coin was what we were doing in Iraq. The initial invasion was Lisco,
large-scale combat operation. After that, we were doing counterinsurgency in Iraq and Afghanistan.
So, I think that Hamas was like, oh, we're going to take these prisoners. We're going to do,
we're going to, you know, we're going to fight an insurgency against special forces troops. And
they're going to raid this building. We're going to be someplace else. We're going to do this for
five years. And then we'll give the prisoners back. Right. And we'll lose some guys. We'll kill a
couple of them. Yeah. And Israel just said, oh no, baby, we're going full Lisco. Yeah. And they just
rolled in with a freaking steamroller and just started slamming people in the face with sledge
hammers. Like, it was a sledge hammer to the face. I think that's one of the reasons that
Hamas, they had no idea what the hell to do because they'd never been hit like that before.
Like, they had prepared for one kind of war and Israel said, oh no, we're going to do it our way.
And I find it kind of stunning. I mean, what do you make of the fact of what happened on October 7?
Like, how do you think they were able to plan that attack and execute that attack? I mean, I've never
been to Israel, but from everyone that I've talked to that's been there, they said you can't,
you know, you can't sneeze on that border without an IDF soldier in your face.
Well, they probably did it by keeping everybody segregated. And I think one of the reasons,
by segregated, I mean, like they had multiple cells, multiple operating cells, like squads,
like nine to 13 dudes. Now, the reason I believe this is that every single dude that was captured
by the IDF who was involved in the raid said that they were promised an apartment and $10,000.
Now, here's why I think this was compartmentalized. I believe that they had,
it was around 2000, 3000 troops, all of whom thought they were independent cells.
Because if they didn't think that, they would have talked to each other and been like, hey,
did they promise you an apartment? Oh yeah, they promised me an apartment. How about you? Yeah,
they promised me an apartment. Hold up, they promised all of us an apartment? Where are they
going to get all these apartments from? Right? So I think that's an indicator that now Hamas lied.
Or maybe they actually did think that they were going to be able to give those who survived and
brought back a prisoner an apartment. If there was this coin operation that Israel conducted for
the next five years, that might have happened. But instead, they got a slush hammer to the face.
Right. So all these dudes were motivated, I'm going to go, I'm going to capture prisoners,
I'm going to bring them back because then I get an apartment. And they never talked outside their
cell because they were told not to. So I think what we had, I believe it was, I want to say,
it was more than 13. I want to say it was probably around 30 cells that breached the border fence
in Israel and started running a muck. So 30 cells, 110 guys each.
How many of them were the total? I want to say it was between 300. So it's a tough one, right?
Because one of the things that people did was that some dudes noticed the hole open in the fence
and they just ran through and are grabbing air conditioners, tires. These are all things they
can't necessarily get because of the embargo. So you're a Palestinian dude and your wife is like,
it's hot. Well, fence is open. Honey, I'm going to Sears. I'll be right back. So what are you
going to do? So actually, I don't recall the exact number of people between 300 and 3000. So it
depends on what you count as a guy. And how does the Mossad, I mean, how does the Mossad
miss this with all the communications that they can intercept and all the intelligence they have?
I mean, they're able to, I had John Kariyaku on here a couple of times and he tells me about how
they were able to figure out how the Hamas and some of these guys that were inside Gaza,
they were literally communicating to each other on backgammon. Yes, game apps. Like the chat feature
on the game apps, which is insane. Yeah, a number a little while back, I knew there were people
online who were saying, Ryan, talk to us about this ban on the government wanting to be able to
look at game app and stuff without a warrant. Well, that's why. Right. Because it was from
stuff like that. That's how the San Bernardino shooter was communicating as well.
You're absolutely right. So I think a lot of it was, it was just face to face contact. They're
doing this in small cells. And the other thing is that it's just such a Tom Clancy kind of thing
to believe. Like, oh, they're not going to do that. Like, that's a Tom Clancy movie, right?
3000 people stream over the border, raid, grab people, bring them back. That's like a Clancy
knob. And, you know, Israel might have believed that like, all right, a couple of cells might come
across the border. And that might have been why they kept it down to, you know, the individual
cells as well. I don't think any of these cells knew what other cells were doing. Now, maybe
Italian commanders knew or company commanders know, I think, you know, at the individual level,
individual squad level, they thought they were the only ones, right? So they go over it. So if
Israel did intercept stuff, they're like, Oh, it's just another freaking squad doing,
there's stupid BS stuff. Maybe we'll come over the border. We'll get them when they do. Don't
worry about it. Yeah, the sad there. There's a time I pronounce it wrong. Again, like, Israeli's
go like, you're pronouncing it wrong. Well, speak Arabic. Sorry guys. There's a saying in Israel.
Yeah, the sad. Don't worry about it. It'll be fine. A couple of guys. Yeah, the sad that
we'll take care of it. Don't worry. Right. So it could have been that. And now, when you're
seeing dudes like with with hang gliders, you know, like this powered, they call ultralights,
like, oh, wow, they have an ultralight club now. It's a heck of a club for an open air prison to
have. How come they have ultralights? That's kind of a that probably would in the intelligence
community. This is what we call a clue. Right? Why is there suddenly an ultralight club popping up
in Gaza? Maybe I would have investigated that a little bit. But I sorry, they have one of the
ways they they hit the border. Some came through tunnels, some came through the fence, some came
through ultralights, some came by this ocean. Right. They came in on boats, small boats.
So the ultralight thing, I'm still that still blows me away. Yeah, that is pretty insane.
Like, they were able to do that. Yeah, I wouldn't have even wouldn't have even thought of that.
Like that wouldn't. So it could have just been that Israel missed it because it was just such a
crazy thought. The other thing is people have said that like a lot of a lot of the women,
a lot of so female conscripts, a lot of them were tasked with monitoring the border.
You know, a lot of women, they go into intelligence positions or into into what do you call it,
administrative positions. So you might you might be a conscript, and you're like, hey, sir, you
bring this up to your commanding officer. These guys are doing hang gliding. What do you know?
Right? You're just you're just here for two years, and I get another one. It looks just like
you go back, go back to your computer. Don't talk to me about this again. It's my best Israeli
accent I could do. You know, and, and I'm like, dude, but you know, who are you going to go to
next? Right? Yeah, my boss told me that and I'll be like, all right, well, you know what? I did
my job. It's on him now. Right. Right. It's on him. If he if he wants to ignore this and tell.
All right. I'm going home with the other day. Right. Yeah, I mean, it's just it's just hard
to wrap your head around when you're someone like me and you're looking at and you're looking at all
this stuff like this and trying to understand how people think in that part of the world. And if
you haven't been there, it's it's really, really hard to understand what it must be like, especially
living in that part of the world, where like you're surrounded by enemies, you know, you're
so vulnerable. There are Palestinians who have the key that they had. Have you heard of the term
the Nakba on Nakba? So during the war of independence, as well as independence,
many Arabs that were on the land, what we call Palestinians today, you'd call,
I guess, Palestinians back then to Arabs that live on the land. Many of them were kicked off
their land, some by the Jews that were taking areas and some by other Arabs, the Jordanians,
the Egyptians, Syrians, they're told get off the land, you can come back when we've killed all the
Jews. Right. So these dudes left. And a lot of the ones who ended up in Gaza, they're the ones who
never had anything to come back to because they lost their homes during the Nakba. Al Nakba means
catastrophe, the catastrophe. And there are some people who have like that the key to the house
that they owned is like a totem. And it's in like a box, like a picture of frame,
hanging on their wall. If they still have a wall today, it's hanging on a wall. And that's the key,
that one day we will return, one day we will push the Jews into the sea and we will return to our
home. And this has now been two generations since the Nakba, right, since the catastrophe.
And so that's kind of what we're working with here. And when you do, when you do talk to Palestinians
who went through that, as I think maybe only a third of the people in Gaza were original residents,
like they had farms and stuff like that. And initially, Egypt ran Gaza. Yeah, it was after
the Six Day War that Egypt was like, you know what, you can keep that. Right. That's all you,
you deal with that. Life sucks. Yeah, it sucks. You take a look at a place like Gaza. I mean,
Gaza doesn't produce anything. All it does is consume. I mean, at least the West Bank,
and there might be some olive oil, and there's some factories there. There's some trade, I guess.
But for the most part, Gaza is, I would, I mean, Jordan Harbinger, when I was on his show,
he said he's been there in Gaza. I've been to Israel. I never went to the West Bank or Gaza.
I was on a four-day pass when I was there. So, you know, we went to Jerusalem and I think Tel Aviv.
That was, at least at the time, you could still smoke in the mall there. I was like, yeah, this is
great. I don't want to leave. This is fantastic. I think this is in 2008.
Do you think, going back to what happened yesterday with that Israeli strike,
do you think they got a green light from the U.S. to do that, or how much influence do you think
that the U.S. has on what's going on? I don't think we have as much as the media would, as the media
or as some Palestinians office would like you to believe. Israel's going to do what they need to do
in order to defend themselves, full stop. This is just how they're going to do things.
They are not going to listen to us, even if we give good advice, like, hey, maybe you got to build
refugee camps as you invade. That way you could take care of people who you've displaced. There's
the way we wage war and there's the way they wage war. Two different ways of doing that.
They seem a little bit unhinged, right? Yes. There's a part of me that says I understand,
and there's another part of me that says, if you want to play army for real,
then you have to do it the right way. Part of that right way is having a plan for what you're
going to do with displaced civilians, getting them medical care, getting them food,
because we should not be air-dropping. There was this whole thing, oh, we're going to build
a transport dock on the coast of Gaza. There is plenty of capacity at the border crossings
to get trucks in. Plenty of capacity. We don't need to build a transport dock. There's plenty
of capacity. The Israelis just won't let stuff in, and some of that might be they have legitimate
reasons for inspecting that cargo, and some of that might be, you know what,
but it is not my problem. These guys, they attacked us, and now you want us to bring in diapers?
I wasn't, and pardon my ignorance on this, my knowledge of this part of the world and the
history of it is very spotty, but wasn't Netanyahu responsible for funding Hamas to
a large degree over the last few years? I've heard that, but I don't, so I guess it depends
on what you mean by funding Hamas. I heard that they were literally sending suitcases full of cash.
Because I guess the idea was that it would help them fight the PLO, and it would
contain that fight, and they would maybe deplete each other somehow.
Well, the PLO is a militant arm of Fatah, which is the governing body of the West Bank, so
I mean maybe, I'm not sure that. I can tell you that Hamas is the full,
I usually pronounce this word wrong, panoply of services. So Hamas is the government,
and then the Quds Force is the military, but they also have a police force. They also have an
education department. They also have a health department, right? It is a country. Well, it is
a state. It's not a country yet, really, right? It's a state, and they provide services to their
people, trash collection, hospitals, so on. So it would make sense to support the police,
because they are doing police things, and you identify Hamas police by their uniforms, which
are blue, right? So I mean, and technically, they shouldn't be targeted either, because they're
police. You're not supposed to target police. They're considered non-combatants. Now, if a
policeman is shooting at you, yeah, he's a combatant. So in that sense, I could see them
supporting the police, the training. I think Canada, not I think, I know that Canada was in
the West Bank training, training Palestinian Authority police, but I don't know. Yeah,
wow. Canada trains people. Canada is like the world's number one trainer of foreign nations,
the Royal Canadian Mount of Police, because they speak French. A lot of them speak French.
So they'll go to Haiti, and they'll train police. So they'll go to Cyprus, and they'll train police.
They train police all over. Yeah, the Royal Canadian Mount of Police are amazing.
I find it so bizarre how the things we pay attention to, or the things that the U.S.
just has interest in, like this war with Israel, or the war with Ukraine, but I think,
like, wasn't there recently like a coup in Niger, and there's also all this war going on in the Congo,
and there's all these things going on. I think I saw about the coup in Niger at the bottom of a
feed on some website I saw. It was nowhere near like a top headline, and I haven't heard anybody
talk about that, really. I think I talked about it a little bit. Oh, really? Yeah, and that was one
of those things where we don't care about it. I'm sure we do. It's just there's, look, there's
17 minutes in the evening news, right? Like, and the rest is all commercials for Lipitor.
Right. So, like, how much time can you actually devote to Niger, right?
Sudan. There's been a war going on in Sudan for weeks. I actually know a journalist who's there,
and this guy texts me occasionally, like, right, it's between the RSF and the Sudanese Army. RSF
is this force, the John Weed Militia, that they took, I'm sure you've heard of Darfur a couple
of years ago. Well, the John Weed Militia took care of Darfur, and the John Weed Militia became the
RSF, the Rapid Security Forces, and these guys, they were kind of like a militia that was ethnic,
an ethnic militia that could do the dirty work of the president in Sudan. And just recently,
about two years ago, the RSF teamed up with the Sudanese Army, and they overthrew the president
of Sudan, and the army took over. And the army was just recently said to the RSF, like, hey,
we want you to be integrated into the army. We don't want you to be a militia force anymore.
And the RSF was like, no, I kind of like our independence. Let's have a war.
So, yeah, that's been going on. The army's slowly been pushing them back, mainly through
the use of Iranian and Chinese drones. So, the RSF is slowly losing ground. But I feel
a bit like the internet in Sudan is super spotty. So, this one guy, yeah, when he writes music,
Ryan, Mr. Ryan, I have a new video for you. And God knows, this guy's staying next to a hot spot
for 12 hours waiting for this video, because he can't get stuff out, except with me.
What does he use, the Tesla satellite, the Wi-Fi?
I don't know. They have an internet cafe. Sudan is a modern country. One thing that
kind of blows my mind about Sudan, they have rural businesses there where people charge cell
phones. So, you'll see markets where you might not necessarily have electricity in your village,
but you'll walk to the next village and you'll pay some dude money. And he has these banks of
chargers. He'll have like a solar charger. Wow. And it's just banks of phones, like 100 phones.
And so, as you do your shopping in the market, he's charging your phone.
It's like going to the gas station. Yeah. Yeah. And you pay him, you know,
cut a little bit of money to charge your phone and you take your phone. That's actually,
that's been a way for women to make money. That's actually, I'm sure you've heard of a
microloans. Yeah, that was like a big thing in Africa. Women, a woman get like a microloan
for a certain amount of money. And then that woman can then go buy a charger and then start
their own business. And it's just a way for women to be independent. Oh, wow. That's crazy.
It is neat. It's funny how much, it's funny how much they're like us.
Yeah, I felt the same way about Iranians. You know, there's fake Apple stores in Iran.
Yeah, I saw that in one of your videos. Because the Apple's banned in Iran, right?
Yeah. Well, technically, we can't really export any kind of computer equipment to them.
But these Iranians, they want to be Western so badly that they'll go to Qatar and they'll go to
Turkey and they'll buy Apple iPhones there and Macs. And they'll bring them back to an Apple store
that's totally unlicensed. It looks like an Apple store. It looks like an Apple store. They got
this one kid. I talked to him, right? It's weird. When Mashamani was murdered by the
Morality Police. So two years ago, Mashamani, a Kurdish woman, she was wearing her job the wrong
way. She was beaten to death by the Morality Police in Iran. And there were all these riots.
And one of the hardest things I've ever had to do in my life, all these Iranians,
I had no idea I had so many Iranian fans. They all reached out to me and were like,
Ryan, show us how to fight back, show us how to make a bomb. I'm like, number one,
I'm an infantryman, not a UD. They give us that stuff. I don't know how to make a bomb. If I
don't know how to make a bomb, you shouldn't be making a bomb. Because if you don't know how to
make a bomb, you shouldn't be making a bomb. Right. There's no such thing as a bomb maker who
got a B. You're great at pass fail on making bombs. All right. So don't be making no bombs.
Like that. That's number one. All right. And then number two, it's it's it's it's it's it's
ITAR. It's the international IT international traffic, a arms regulation ITAR. I can't tell people
how to make make a weapon, even if I knew how to do that. I couldn't I can't do that. I can export
license all this stuff. Yeah. But what I did do is oops, I accidentally released the entire
Iranian police radio frequencies. Oh, sorry. I know some of you guys are engineers. It'd be
shame if you made a jammer. Right. Oh, so you did do that? Yeah. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah, I did that.
And what what were they able to how was that able to do a dorm thing? They shot them anyway.
The beseegee militia. They were shooting people with bird shot. You know, bird shot is
what's bird shot and shotgun shell. You know, a bird shot of these little BBs. They're designed
to shoot birds out of the air clay pigeons if you get a skeet shooting. Steve knows what bird shot
is. They're a little. Oh, yeah. Oh, yikes. Yeah. A lot of these women. Oh, God. All right. I'm good.
I need to see this. Jesus Christ put that up on YouTube. Yeah, we're not we're not going to
we'll instantly get this video shut down. But yeah, I so I couldn't help them. But what I could do
was I said, find me pictures of the shell casings. And from that, I can what I can do is I can try
to get a lot of numbers off the shell casings and just show where the shell casings are
manufactured. So if you guys do seem to if you do overthrow the government, then we can, you know,
we can use this evidence for prosecuting people for war crimes later just by getting the lot
number off the shell because we can a lot number is the manufacturing code. Okay, that'll be like
any almost any shell almost any piece of military equipment tells you when it was made. Yeah, like
this is what lot it was coming off the assembly line. This is lot 249. So, you know, okay, too. So
this was made the second week of February, you know, not right. Yeah. So you have those on
pieces of equipment, because like, if you have shells that aren't firing correctly, you can go,
what's the lot number? Oh, all right. Well, this is probably a bad lot. Right. So you can go back
to the factory and say, hey, lot 249 is bad. And I'll notice a go out saying like, don't it look
in your look in your bunkers find any kind of ammunition with lot 249 on it, take that off the
take that off the firing line, send it back, we need to inspect it. The ammunition typically
lasts a really long time, doesn't it? Oh, yeah, I mean, there's stuff from World War Two. Yeah,
so horrible day. My buddy, David Packhouse, he came on the podcast, he ended up selling, I think it was
like 80 million dollars worth of AK ammo to the Iraq war to the US government to arm the Iraq war
and they ended up getting it. So they won the contract, right? They won this contract to supply
the Afghan army with ammunition. And they ended up finding the ammo in some like abandoned factory
in Albania. Yeah, I buy that. And it was all ammo that was donated from China from like, I wish I
remembered the year, but I want to say it was like from the 50s or the 40s, maybe World War Two,
maybe before that even 760 by 39. But I guess there was a bunch of civil wars in that area around the
time it came from. And for some reason, I don't remember the history. Yeah, go back to the podcast
with David Packhouse and you'll find the history. Yeah. They shipped 80 mil like around 80 million
dollars worth of ammo and it all worked fine. All the guys that were there training the Afghan
soldiers, they said there was never a misfire. All of it worked great. Probably in a spam can too.
And the problem, but the funny thing is, the reason they got, they got a huge discount on that
ammunition because it all came from China and it was super fucking old. And it was all packaged
in boxes that had Chinese writing all over it. So they had to repackage ton. Yeah. Yeah, spam can.
They had to repackage it all because we had an embargo on China. So the US couldn't buy it
if it came from China. So they made a movie about him called War Dogs with Jonah Hill.
Yeah, that, I gotta tell you for the longest time,
you know, do you ever go to gun shows in Florida?
Every once in a while. Yeah. So here now they're just beef jerky shows, right? Like all the good
I haven't been one in a long time. Yeah, well, that's just it. Like all the good stuff is gone.
Like all the surplus rifles, all the surplus ammo, that's all, that was all gone. It was
gone by the 2000s. Like there's essentially no more of that stuff remaining. So now you get
to a gun show and it's like stuff that's double the price you get at Cabela's and like beef
jerky and handicrafts. Right. So there's no point in going. I used to, I remember when going to gun
shows was fun. That was a way, oh, for 10 bucks you get into the gun show and all right, maybe you
walk out with like a funny t-shirt, you know, Kilikami for mommy, right? That's the only place
you're, before the internet, that was the only place you could buy a t-shirt and said Kilikami
for mommy, right? Right. Was a gun show. Now you can buy it from Bunker Branding. I actually don't
have a Kilikami for mommy t-shirt, but maybe I should get one. I think you should. That would
be great. I think that'd probably be your number one selling shirt. It might be. I wanna get back
to the Russia Ukraine thing for a little bit. So what do you think the outcome of that is gonna be?
And what do you think the U.S., do you think the U.S. is gonna continue to be as involved as they've
been? And like, because of the way you see it right now, it looks like it's just gonna be another
Iraq war or another like Afghan war where it's just like a 20-year never-ending
like grunt fight to the death of just like these small groups of people. I think that,
I can tell you this, and I've been told I was wrong about this. So maybe this ended a little
while ago, but I was told by this one guy in Ukraine that they had Molotov cocktails at their
bus stations. Now this might not be true anymore, but a Molotov cocktail isn't gonna do a darn thing
to a tank. Molotov cocktail is a liquor bottle filled with some sort of accelerant and there's
a wick which in the form of a rag that you light that wick and you throw it and it bursts against
the tank and it explodes in flame, right? It's not gonna do a darn thing to a tank, but people
were building them anyway, right? These improvised weapons. And I can tell you that the Ukrainians
are people who are not going to be slaves. They will not be slaves to Russia and they will fight
to the last tooth and the last nail, right? What I see eventually happening is Russia just can't
support, Russia just runs out of tanks. They just ran out of armored vehicles. That's probably gonna
happen in about three years, two to three years. So you think that's our strategy is just to basically
deplete them? I wish I knew what our strategy was because we've had no strategy. And actually,
in a lot of ways it's not up to us. It's up to the Ukrainians, right? This isn't our fight.
Up to the Ukrainians, right? Well, so look, they are doing the best they can with what they have
and they're not lagging for bravery, right? We don't tend to tell them how to do stuff
and they're doing the best they can with what they have. So ultimately what I see is the Donbass
and Crimea. So I see the war ending through a negotiated settlement, but Ukraine negotiating
from a standpoint of strength instead of weakness. And I see the Donbass. Oh, fuck, what is that?
The tank turret popped off. Oh, that's what you were describing. That tank turret hull is no
longer. Yeah, the tank that the hull is probably a couple meters away. Yeah, I mean, it launches
into the air with such... Well, actually that, I don't think that's it. I don't know if that picture
is scrollable or that you can scroll down, but... No, it's fill in the screen. But yeah, the turret...
What does that headline say, Steve? This is scroll down. Ukraine has become a graveyard for Russian
tanks. Yeah, you can't... It's behind a paywall. So, yeah, that's one example of what happens to
those tanks. And you can imagine what happens to the crew, right? The crew get launched into space.
Not a good outcome. But I eventually see the Donbass and Crimea. Eventually we have a peacekeeping
force there, maybe made up of non-aligned nations like Brazil, Fiji. They do a peacekeeping tour
there and they just keep that area. Those areas become quasi-independent states. And maybe Ukraine
is allowed to have a certain number of tanks and troops on one side and Russia is allowed to have
a certain number of tanks and troops. We have the same thing in Egypt on the Egypt-Israeli border
in the Sinai Peninsula. We've had troops there since the late 1970s, early 1980s. It's troops from
countries you don't really think about, like Japan, Norway, Fiji, Colombia, the U.S., Italy, France.
They're all on the border, Ecuador, Uruguay. They're on the border between Egypt and Israel,
keeping the peace, making sure both sides are staying honest.
Oh, there's that. And the other thing that's going to happen soon is the...
Major design flaw.
The Russians are... They're going to run out of artillery tubes sooner or later. Artillery tubes.
An artillery tube is like a highly calibrated instrument. And they need to be replaced after
a certain number of rounds fired. And if you don't replace those artillery tubes, they will
explode or they'll start to get more and more inaccurate, and then eventually they'll fail.
And they'll either fail catastrophically when you fire around or they'll just break in half.
And so those tubes, they need to be replaced periodically. And if Russia isn't producing
enough tubes or they're running low on stocks of tubes, that's going to be an issue.
Yeah. It seems like... It seems like... I don't know if you saw Tucker's videos he made when he
went over there to Russia, but he said that everything looked great. He's like... He's like,
it looked like the country. The country looked like it was thriving. I didn't see any issues.
He's got a Kiev. It looks great, too.
Right. Really?
Yeah, yeah, Kiev. Kiev is just a normal Western city.
Huh.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, there might be some areas that have been hit by missiles and stuff,
but... And Chuck Holton, who he works... He's a colleague of mine at Newsmax. He's a reporter.
He should have Chuck Holton on. That guy, he has some stories. Chuck Holton. Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
He's a... He actually goes to some of these conflict areas. He's an actual war reporter.
I'm not really a journalist. People call me a journalist. I don't really... Initially,
I called myself a journalist, but the more I did it, the more I was like, yeah, I think I like
intel guy better. Because I don't know how to do this journalism stuff. And then I see real
journalists and like, man, I'm not like him. You know, he's better than me at that sort of thing.
But so the U.S., obviously, everyone who's a Ukrainian who is a male and fighting age is
there fighting, right? But the U... It's all women.
We don't have boots on the ground, the U.S., but we do have people there. We have...
Special forces are keeping track of the weapons. Special forces, contractors are out there doing
work. And we're gaining intel. Like, we're, you know, I wouldn't be surprised every night. We're
taking information from the Patriot systems and that's going straight to, maybe not Sencom, but...
Sencom. Yeah, I know. My buddy, Julian Dorey, has had a couple got a couple of CIA mercenaries on
his podcast that have been like on the ground there. And I told him a lot of stories about it.
But as far as Russia goes, are they basically all conscripts that are fighting this war?
It depends.
And or do they have military contractors that are... Or like, do they have...
So they have... So Russia has a mix of... They have conscripts and they have kontrakniky.
And kontrakniky is... It contracts holders. We'll sign a contract for a certain number of years
to serve. And that was kind of how their army was based. It was kind of half and half. And
actually, a lot of times when you came in as a conscript, it was kind of highly suggested that
you become kontrakniky. And they... The kontrakniky... What's kind of weird is that their...
The sergeants in the Russian army are mainly trigger pullers. Oh, you know, some more water
would be a good... Do you mind grabbing a liquid death for Ryan out of the fridge?
So, I mean, this stuff is good too. I'm probably gonna finish this up.
Dude, this stuff is incredible. Isn't it? It's amazing. Angels envy is amazing.
So yeah, the Russians, they do have kontrakniky and they have conscripts. And technically,
the conscripts are not supposed to leave Russia. But I think that went out the window probably
about two years ago. So now you have conscripts fighting. And it's not good, man. Like your life
is... Thank you. Your life is brutal and short, you know, as a kontrakniky or as a conscript.
It's not good. And I know they had the Wagner group for a while. Yeah, that ended.
And that, yeah. Yeah, that ended at its heart. You could put off more than you could chew
with that one. But then what's fascinating about the Wagner group is that these guys,
they, you know, they were able to make the kind of gains that the Russian army just couldn't do
because Wagner was light infantry. Russia doesn't do light infantry. What does that mean?
So, I guess the thing about it, there's, I don't know, four different kinds of infantry, right?
You have airborne infantry, which eventually becomes light infantry. You have aerosol infantry,
which eventually becomes light infantry. You have light infantry, which walk everywhere.
And then you have mechanized infantry, which they ride in vehicles to their location. And
usually these vehicles are called infantry fighting vehicles. So they get to their location
and the infantry fighting vehicle usually has a gun on it. And it provides support by fire
while the infantry make their way around. Well, Russia is mainly a mechanized infantry force.
Even their airborne is mechanized and are the, the VDV, which is their airborne. Even
they're mechanized. They have special vehicles that are lighter and can be dropped. And one
interesting thing is that, you know, remember what I said, what did Russia always intend to do?
What did they intend to fight in? Nuclear chemical environment, right? That's why they
all have vehicles. Cause it's a lot, it's a lot harder to get radiation poisoning when you have
a vehicle with four centimeters of aluminum arm or absorbing that dose, right? So they,
Russia is mainly mechanized. And also the other thing, Russia doesn't tend to have
NCOs, non-commissioned officers. They do, but they don't. So when I retired from the military,
I was what's called a Sergeant First Class. Really, I was a First Sergeant. I was in a
First Sergeant position as a Sergeant First Class. So I often liken that the position of
Platoon Sergeant as I am the drive-thru manager at a Burger King, right? The Lieutenant runs the
store, but if he needs to leave because his daughter's sick, I can close up the store, right?
I know how to do that, right? So in an infantry unit, the Lieutenant leads the Platoon Sergeant,
does all the work behind the scenes to make sure the Lieutenant doesn't have to think about anything.
The Lieutenant can just concentrate on the tactical plan, right? Mission comes down.
Lieutenant gets the mission. He says, hey, Sergeant, we got this mission. I'm like,
what's the mission? Well, here's the mission. Okay, I'll go. I'm going to go gather fuel.
I'm drawing ammunition. I'm drawing special equipment. I'm doing this. I'm doing that.
Meanwhile, the Lieutenant's actually at the operations order. He's getting more information
as to what we're going to do and how we're going to do it, okay? And I'm working behind the scenes
to get that done. Russia doesn't have that. Russia has a Lieutenant and they have no mid-level
non-commissioned officer to back the Lieutenant up and help them out. They do have lower-level
junior NCOs. They do have those, but they don't really have that. In the US Army, the Lieutenant
is the mommy and the Platoon Sergeant is the daddy, right? Right. So you need a mommy and daddy to
take care of everybody, right? So Russia doesn't have that. Well, when you're a mechanized infantry
and you're not going that far from your vehicle, you don't really necessarily need that because
you're never moving more than 300 meters away from your vehicle. So you're always kind of
under the control of the Lieutenant anyway. But if you're operating as light infantry,
then you're operating in squads that are far, could be further away from the Platoon, right?
The Platoons are out on their own. Now you need those mid-level NCOs who know a lot of stuff.
We've been in the Army 10 years, 10 years, 15 years, who kind of know how things work to lead
people, right? Because they're out on their own. They're making decisions on their own. A lot of
times in the Russian Army, if the Lieutenant gets killed, what the hell do we do? I don't know.
But Wagner, they weren't like that because they used mercenaries who had been in combat before
in Africa or wherever. So they were those mid-level NCOs. So they could do things that the Russian
Army just couldn't do. NCOs are expensive. I had to go to multiple schools to become a Platoon
Sergeant. And if I had stayed in, became a Sergeant Major, I have to go to the Sergeant Major Academy
to go to three different schools. One of which, Enoch, actually I went to Mancock, which is the
maneuver. Manoeuvre, advance non-commissioned officers course. And I'm sure they have people
that have replaced the Wagner group, right? They're the Progression. I am not aware of that.
It seems crazy that he'd whacked the guy. The guy was so important to the war. I mean, assuming he
did, which, you know, he did, right? Like, assuming he did, it actually makes perfect sense. I mean,
look, if you look at, what do they call it? Not Den of Thieves. Did they ever actually conclude
that Progression was on that plane? Did they ever actually show, like, get DNA evidence or show or
put a report on that? Who knows? Who knows? It's Russia. I mean, you can assume anything come out
of it. How do you think, did you look into that? How do you think that plane went down?
I am not an aviation expert. I don't know. Like, one of the things I don't do is I don't talk about
things that I don't understand. If I'm that guy, I feel like I am very paranoid. I can say this.
I mean, I did a video about how his wife was now the sole owner of, I actually looked into
Belarusian property rights because Wagner was now incorporated in Belarus after the, yeah,
and Progression's wife is now the owner of Wagner. Of what? Really? Yeah, I looked at how their property
rights transfer and, yeah, she's the owner of Wagner now, or whatever's left of it, right?
I had my buddy, Andy Bustamante, came on the show and he was a former CIA officer and he talks about
how he, or his theory on it was that it was either an access agent that got on the plane,
like a server, or like a hostess, or something like that. Because there was a, before the plane
didn't take off when it was supposed to take off. Apparently it took off like a couple hours
after it was supposed to take off because there was technical issues with the plane,
which is a huge red flag if I'm Progression. I don't know if I'm getting on that plane if there's
technical issues and it's not taking off. But he doesn't think it was necessarily a bomb that
was detonated on it. He thinks that it was an air-to-air missile. I don't know. Because
I guess the wing came off the plane in midair and then it fell down. If you look at the video,
you can see the plane's like basically falling like a lawn dart and one of the wings is already
gone in midair. His, and this is something that you would probably know about, he says that the
air-to-air missiles are heat seeking, so they're going to be looking for the engine of the plane,
which is right behind the wing. It depends on the missile, but yeah. So that would have
basically detached the wing from the airplane. So it's heat seeking, but infrared isn't the only
spectrum missiles think in. They can also see an ultraviolet. There's different spectrums,
like flares, like I'm sure you've seen when a plane is, you know, missiles going after a plane,
the flares pop out of the back, and like that might help against some older missiles, but
they're nowadays planes or missiles are seeing multiple spectrums. What is that?
That's the, oh, that's the, okay, this is the flight path of the airplane. This is the calibrated
altitude of the airplane, the vertical rate. So right before it right before it crashes,
look how it's going steady. See that bottom part, how it's flying straight, then it automatically
like flies way up high and then just dives. So he was thinking, and this is his theory,
is that it was trying to avoid a missile before it went down. That would be interesting if that
happened because I don't know many civilian jets that have detection software, you know,
because look, in order to, in order to avoid an incoming missile, you have to know that you're
being painted, right? You have to know that, that the adversaries fighter plane is just locked on
to you, that you fired a missile, right? So typically you have a software on their electronic
warning software that lets you know like, hey, someone's, someone's tagging you, right? And that's
when you might take evasive action. I don't know how many civilian planes have that. I know that
LL does the Israeli airline, right? FedEx might. Really? Yeah, if they're flying out of danger
series, FedEx might. And if you didn't have that software on your plane or the technology
in your plane, you would not be able to see a missile coming. That's not something the average
pilots were worried about. I would say like, when pilots take off, that is last on their mind.
Maybe I'll get shot down today. And thus, Progosian is on your plane and he knows Putin wants his
head. I mean, so like I was saying, the, what was it called, rule of thieves. There's this whole
culture in Russia, this whole prison culture of how they treat people in prison and thug culture
where like, you know, there's the person that sleeps by the toilet, you know, who is the,
I think they call him the rooster or something like that. But like, there is, if you come at the
king, you best not miss. Right. And I think that if there's one consistently, when it's one's
consistency, when it comes to Russia, it's that you should, you should always count on the fact
that Vladimir Putin is going to do whatever it takes to make him look strong. Right. So
he had to kill him. He had to. Like, that's the prison rules. Right. These are prison rules.
Yes. Right. Yep. And, and Progosian was a criminal, you know, was a criminal of the hot dog stand.
This somehow made it to the, you know, into Putin's inner circle, right? Putin's chef.
So I would not be surprised if that plane was ordered to be destroyed, although the method of
destruction, you know, again, like I couldn't speculate on that. Right. Yeah. What do you think
the chances are that Putin never tries to deploy any nukes, whether it be like a tactical nuke
or a small nuke? Zero. There's not, there's not a lot of, so I shouldn't say zero. So here's my,
here's my thing. So nuclear weapons aren't that useful.
And I say that because, especially we're talking about tactical weapons, which is something that
when you had Annie on here early, she didn't really, Annie Jacobson, she didn't really get
into the difference between tactical and strategic weapons. I think probably because she
doesn't believe that there really is, but there is. Right. Well, there's, she talks about in the
book, she explains that there's this guy, one of the guys, she based her book off Billy Waugh,
who is a CIA mercenary, who he did a bunch of tests where he would, they, they simulated
deploying a tactical suitcase. A suitcase. Well, it's, it's really the size of like a beer keg.
It's called a beer keg bomb. Okay. Yeah. It's, you actually looked that up. It looks like,
Oh really? Yeah. Yeah. It's like a beer keg. It's not a suitcase. It's a beer keg.
Yeah. You can look that up. Yeah, I find that. The suitcase bomb, but the, it's a beer keg.
It's really freaking big. Engineers actually had those to like destroy infrastructure.
So, so back in the 1950s, 1960s. Yeah. Oh, shit, you're right. That's a beer keg.
Holy cow. It's not a suitcase. It's a beer keg. No, not even close. So back in the 1950s, 1960s,
we, we used gravity bombs, you know, regular bombs dropped that were nuclear from planes
like the, the Thunder Chief, the F104. And the idea was that like, all right, if the Russians
are coming close to a bridge in West Germany, we need to knock that bridge down. We're going to
use a nuclear weapon on that bridge. Why? Because you don't have to be that surgical.
If you look at the Fan Hoa bridge in Vietnam, it took the U.S., I want to say seven years
to destroy, to destroy that bridge, Fan Hoa bridge, seven years to destroy that thing.
Until it was finally destroyed, like they finally dropped a span with the, they finally dropped the
span with, I did a whole video on this. Yeah, they finally dropped that span with a laser
guided bomb in 1972. Wow. 1965 to 1972. That's how long it took them. We had hundreds sorties
against this bridge. All right. Nowadays, Steve, can you turn that fan off? Nowadays,
we had, nowadays we have laser guided weapons, GPS guided weapons. Thank you. It's a lot easier
for us to destroy infrastructure. Back in the 1950s, 1960s, it made sense to use a nuclear weapon
against something. Now, if you want to talk about today, there's basically two valid cases or two
understandable cases in which you'd use a tactical nuclear weapon.
You'd use a tactical nuclear weapon to stop and advance. Let's say the Ukrainian army is broken
through your defenses. They are headed to the Black Sea or the Sea of Azov in order to link up
or in order to cut you in half. It would make, now I'm going to invoke a special rule here.
I call it the very bad things rule. Have you ever watched the movie Very Bad Things?
There was a lot, so the movie Very Bad Things was about a guy's at a bachelor party and the
exotic dancer they invite to their hotel room accidentally gets killed while they're partying
with her. And Christian Slater has the greatest line I've ever heard in a movie where he goes,
if you take away all of your morals and all of your values, what we have is a 105 pound problem
that needs to be moved from point A to point B. So they move this exotic dancer and then they
suffer the consequences of regret for the rest of their lives. But Christian Slater wasn't wrong.
He wasn't wrong. So if you get in the mind of Christian Slater from Very Bad Things, you can go
a nuclear weapon is a perfectly valid tool to use on a unit that is breaking through your lines
because it'll stop it like that. It'll stop that advance. So if let's say the Ukrainians
break through and Russian forces just start collapsing and collapsing and collapsing, they
will probably use a nuclear weapon. They could use a nuclear weapon, a gravity bomb most likely
delivered by a C-34 bomber on the advancing lines. It'll stop the attack like that. They do that,
they might risk a conflict with NATO, but it is a valid use for that weapon. So that's one use case
for that weapon. Second use case would be to destroy an underground bunker that you just can't
reach with a conventional weapon. So the Iranians are building, you know, they have their uranium
enrichment facility. A bunker buster. Bunker buster. Yeah. So you put that thing down. Yeah,
that would be another valid use. But for the most part, you're restricted to, oh,
they're third valid use against shipping. A nuclear weapon, you put a nuclear weapon in a
hypersonic missile, you launch it against an aircraft carrier, you've got yourself a carrier
killer. So that would be a useful use case. So three use cases. And that's pretty much it.
Everything else. Yeah. So I don't really see, you know, Ukraine doesn't have any aircraft carriers.
Now you could use a nuclear weapon and detonate that and then run people through the debris field,
run people through the blast. So you use a nuclear weapon to open up a hole in the lines
and then run people through that crater released on the periphery of that crater. You attack through
the crater or the affected area. So you don't even have to detonate it on the surface. You
detonate it in an air burst. In the atmosphere. There's less fallout, right? EMP effects.
There'll be some, right? But you detonate that, you push everybody through that hole.
There's not a lot of radioactivity because it was air burst. That was another thing
Annie didn't talk about, the difference between air burst and surface burst, but that's fine.
But you run everybody through that hole and now you can break through and now you can,
you know, get into Ukraine's rear. But does President Putin have the troops and the supplies
to actually exploit a breakthrough? Because not only do you have to exploit that breakthrough,
then you have to support that breakthrough. Now you need to get them petroleum lubricants,
food, fuel, water, all of that stuff through that breakthrough. Do you have the forces to
exploit that? That's the question. And I don't think they do, right? Because again, they can't
build up any forces because as soon as you start building up anything greater than a company,
what happens? You get hit with rockets. That's actually the dangerous part of us not giving aid
to Ukraine. They're never going to run out of rockets, but it's going to get to the point where
they, they're going to have to be more surgical or more judicious on when they use them. And that's
kind of scary. Because then if that happens, now they're at a point where it's like, crap,
when do we, like, we can use this rocket and this force building up here or we can use this
rocket and this force building up here. That is, that is a dilemma. And I've always said,
you want to create dilemmas, not problems or adversary.
What do you know about our inter, our nuclear interceptor system? The US has this thing called
the interceptor system where we have I think 44. Yeah, we have four at Vandenberg and then we have
40 in Alaska. Right. That are designed to basically intercept nuclear warheads out of the sky. Right.
And it's essentially an analogy for that is like shooting a bullet out of the sky with another
bullet. Yeah, we have how effective do you think that is? I mean, so supposedly with all the tests
they've done, it's about 50% effective. Right. But if you're dealing with rockets about 50%
effective, you know, that we know of, right? Because they've done limited amounts of tests.
We don't have a lot of these things. Now, we have a couple of arrows in our quiver,
we can shoot ballistic missiles down today. We've been able to do it for years. We've been able
to do it since the 90s. Since the, so have you heard of the Aegis system? Yes. Okay. Yes.
Aegis system, it's on every U.S. destroyer and cruiser. The Aegis system,
it is a robotic killer. What does it stand for? I actually don't remember. I actually don't remember
what Aegis. I don't think Aegis is an acronym. Just type, just go to Aegis. I think Aegis is,
Aegis system and then click on all. I actually think that Aegis is just the name of the system.
I don't think it actually stands for anything. Oh, it is not acronym. Okay. Yeah, I don't think
it, yeah, it's just the name for the shield. American Naval Weapon System, which uses computers
and radars to track and guide weapons and destroy enemy targets. It was developed by the missile
and surface radar division of the RCA and is now produced by Lockheed. Yeah. Yeah. So this thing,
this thing is able to intercept ballistic missiles. I think it was the SM3 or SM6.
When it comes to naval topics, there's a reason I call the Navy the department of the boat people.
Like, yeah. All right. I'll get a little, starting my naval stuff. Okay. But there is a missile that
that can take out ballistic missiles. When we've been able to do that,
we did that with the SCUD. I mean, if you remember the First Gulf War, the SCUD missile,
in the first Gulf Wars, what I'm saying was firing SCUD missiles at Saudi Arabia.
And the SCUD is a short range, medium range ballistic missile. And we were maybe or maybe
not shooting those down with Patriots. It was kind of a weird thing. So our Patriots are our interceptors.
And back then the Patriot, the PAC-1 or the Block 1 version of the weapon was a proximity warhead,
which would blow up when it got close to the target. So this thing gets close, it blows up.
But the problem is that it blows up in a cone. And so as the missiles coming in,
the cone is still expanding. And so a lot of times a cone was kind of missing the missiles,
blowing up behind the missile. So that's why we developed the different versions of the Patriot
that would actually do hit to kill or kinetic, you know, a kinetic kill, the PAC-3 GEM version of
the missile. But so we can kill missiles with the Patriot. We can kill ballistic missiles with the
Patriot. We can kill ballistic missiles with FAD, which is FAD is it's another kind of interceptor
theater area, T-H-A-D-D, a defense, I'll have to look that up, the actual name of FAD. We don't
have a lot of FAD batteries. But yeah, FAD system, yeah, T-H-A-D, T-H terminal high altitude area
defense. Yeah, FAD. So think of it like, you know, if the Patriots are to lift and weights,
right, that's FAD. So we have that system. Now, those systems aren't deployed. There might actually
be a FAD system protecting DC. We actually don't know. Or there might be FAD or NASMS. It's been,
there's been rumors, again, you go on dates in the beltway, like, oh yeah, we have a FAD system
protecting us in West Virginia. Really? You know, that's always a weird thing, because like when
some girl tells you about that, either they're telling you a secret that you're not authorized,
you know, or they're full of it. And both of those situations are bad.
Yeah. Both of those situations. I don't think I've ever been on a date where a girl's been bragging
about FAD missiles or any kind of missiles. Well, you gotta live in DC, right? You live in DC. It's
like, you know, I know this thing. I know this guy, right? Yeah. So, uh, hierarchy climb. Yeah,
we can, we can shoot down. We actually, we did a shoot down of ballistic missiles in,
God, I think it was January of 2001, or maybe 2002, was in the UAE. The Houthis
launched three ballistic missiles at a base in the UAE, in the United Arab Emirates.
And I actually have a video that I collaborated with several Patriot guys on, and I actually show
what the ECS looked like, the actual, I show the actual engagement that happened on screen,
using like this simulator, where we actually show what's going on. And I gotta tell you,
people said that, I had one person say that, that video was better than the Hurt Locker.
It was more exciting than the Hurt Locker. Thank you. I appreciate that. And I like to make air
defense exciting. I was actually told they show that video at air defense school. Like when people
are, when people are like, you know, when they get to the school and they're getting their smart
books and like, you know, getting their haircuts and all that, that movie's playing in the background,
which is kind of cool, I guess. Yeah. I guess the scary thing about that, about our interceptor
system is, is that, I mean, like the worst fear is that some unhinged dictator like Kim Jong-un is
going to send a rocket, right? Send an ICBM towards us. And if they did that, we have the,
what's it called? I think it's called Launch On Warning System, which basically means the
second R-Cyber system or our satellites detect a ballistic missile heading towards us, we have to
empty our ICBM arsenals, right? All of our, all of our missiles that are in silos in the northwest,
you're rolling your eyes. You're really making me go there, aren't you? Because I wasn't gonna
come on here and make fun of Annie. Come on, let's do it. We gotta, we gotta, we gotta challenge
this stuff. So, so, so, so for, for people at home, I haven't read the book, essentially.
Did you read it? I, yeah, I read it. Okay. Okay. I read it after watching your, your video,
and I'm listening to it. So let me, let me, let me sort of articulate what she explains in the,
in the scenario. So in the event that Kim Jong-un launches a nuke ICBM towards the U.S.,
we see it on our radars and we have six minutes to launch our ICBMs because we have to assume that
the second someone launches the first missile, they're going to, well, first of all, the idea is
they're not, no one sends one nuke, they send the mother load if they're gonna incite a nuclear war.
But the first missiles are gonna strike our nuclear missile sites that cannot be moved,
the ones that aren't on planes and the ones that aren't on submarines. So our most vulnerable nukes
are the ones that are land-based in like, I think it's Montana and the Northwest. So
our launch on warning system that we have in place is that once we see the missiles up,
we have to empty those silos, right? And we have to go, try back at them. So now the problem is,
if we launch, we launch over the North Pole, then we have to fly, those missiles have to fly over
Russia before they hit North Korea. When's the last time we were able to get Russia on the phone
or Putin on the phone in six minutes? I don't think it's ever happened. I think the last time
that we tried to get Putin on the phone, it took like more than 48 hours before we can get a response.
So, but now they're gonna, Russia, their generals are gonna see that we now have
nukes flying towards Russia. But there's very little, if not zero, chance that we're gonna
be able to get on the phone with them to let them know, look, these nukes aren't coming for you guys,
they're going for North Korea. So they're gonna see those coming from the U.S. and they're gonna
do the same thing. They're gonna launch theirs. So that is an opinion a person can have.
So, Roger Ebert used to have this thing that he called the idiot plot, which is the only way
that a movie can work is everyone's an idiot. And in that particular book, in that particular
scenario, that that was a very unique scenario. I kind of, so in this particular thing, North
Korea launched a nuclear weapon. And the United States decides to fire their arsenal. But because
those weapons have to go over Russia, and we can't get Russia on the phone, Russia counter strikes.
Now, I think probably what would have really happened is we would have just let it come.
Really? Yeah, I want to take out the Pentagon. We can do Pentagon, whatever.
So what if there's not a nuclear weapon on it? There's no way of knowing. Is that a nuclear weapon?
Is it a decoy? Will that weapon actually explode? I actually question whether Russia's arsenal,
whether their nuclear arsenal has enough tritium in it to actually work. Tritium decays. It's a
radioactive isotope that's used to actually boost the nuclear fusion process. This is a big debate
to have in six minutes. It is, but here's the deal. One nuclear weapon is headed toward the U.S.
We have time. We have our submarines. We have our bombers. We have all of our missile fields.
We see one weapon. We don't see an entire 2,000 weapons coming out. So you see one weapon.
All right. One weapon could be a MIRV, multiple independently retargetable,
independently targetable reentry vehicle. Could be a MIRV, right? Could be multiple weapons on it.
But even one missile isn't going to take out multiple silos, right? So we're still going to
have our counter... So another thing. In nuclear warfare, you have counter force and counter value.
All right. Counter force is you're attacking the enemy's ability to launch nuclear weapons.
Counter value, you're attacking economic targets, the ability of the enemy to wage war.
All right. Attacking Washington, D.C. I think you should call that a counter value target,
right? Not necessarily a counter force. Maybe a counter force target because you want to cut off
the head of the snake, right? You want to cut off the command control capabilities. So let it
hit Washington. Screw it. Maybe it's a dud. Maybe it won't explode. Maybe it's going to go up and you
lose Washington. You know what happens? Nothing. So I got to get into Congress. That's easy. Trivial.
You can do that, right? But you launch that nuclear weapon and it takes out Washington, D.C.
We still have 1,500, 1,800 ICBMs. Well, we have 400 or so ICBMs in the Miniman ICBMs. We have a
bunch on submarines and we have some gravity bombs and cruise missiles, the AGM-86s that can be
launched in B-52s and gravity bombs that can be fired from the B-2. Do you think we have them on
satellites? No. No? I mean, I don't know, but I... For what? There's no... There's no purpose.
There's no reason for that. You know, we know about every satellite we've ever launched.
But we worry about other countries having them on satellites.
So what does that actually give you?
Steve, do you think people are stealing from them?
I mean, I don't really see how that gives us any kind of advantage
having a weapon in a satellite. I mean, we have enough to boost stuff into orbit and explode them
if you want to do an EMP attack. So yeah, I mean, so there's that. So let it explode.
Screw it. Let it explode. And then after that, we can come into... We can look at our options.
So that's number one. Part of the plot point of that book was that Russia seizes attacking.
Russia has the capability of detecting a launch from North Korea.
They have the capability... Say that again?
Russia has the capability of detecting a launch from North Korea.
Okay. Their systems might not be as good as Sibirs, but they'll definitely go,
whoa, something just blew up in Washington. We don't know what that was.
Let's get America on the phone. Yeah.
So that's kind of like a major... Again, it's the idiot plot.
Roger Ebert's idiot plot. In order for this to work, everybody has to be an idiot.
Right? So we kind of traipse toward nuclear war in that particular book.
And I don't really foresee... She said...
If we had done that, if they really did explode a nuclear weapon over Washington,
you would have the second ID, Second Infantry Division, and every single rock soldier and
Marine in Republic of Korea ready to go north and jack these guys up.
We wouldn't even have to use a nuclear weapon.
North Korea would probably collapse in about three days if we offered them food.
Right? Like, it's such a...
What do you think about the part in the book where she says that there have been hundreds
and hundreds of war game simulations that they've run, and every single time this
exact thing happens?
Well, just because you ran the simulation doesn't mean it's actually how it's going to work out.
I mean, I can tell you if I were the president, and I notice...
If I were the president, right?
If I were the president...
Ryan, you've got your presidential whiskey day.
I think you'd be a good president.
You would at least be good for morale.
That would be the last first bachelor president since Chester A. Arthur.
It's tough enough for me trying to date women now.
You imagine when that's like if I'm president.
So what do you do?
Well, I'm the president.
Oh, what do you do?
Well, I work for the African Coalition for Hair Removal Services.
It's tough when you're almost 50.
I'm 48.
48?
Wow.
I thought you were way younger than that.
You know, I attribute that to smoking and drinking.
Look, you know Carol O'Connor is the guy from All in the Family?
Meathead?
No.
All right.
So you are...
Years ago...
I know Archie is.
Archie Bunker.
Yeah, Carol O'Connor played Archie Bunker.
Okay, got it.
That's his name.
Archie Bunker.
So Carol O'Connor, I believe, was 48 in that show.
Uh-huh.
He looked like he was about to die.
Right.
Like...
Sober.
The Golden Girls were in their 50s.
Yeah, Archie Bunker.
Archie Bunker, that's Carol O'Connor.
I'm his age.
That's wild.
Yeah, he looks late 60s.
He looks like he's about to die.
Look at him with a cigar.
Yeah.
I'm sure he was drinking a lot of booze and smoking a lot of cigars.
Well, what's the difference?
I run.
I lift weights.
I swim.
I bike.
Mm-hmm.
How much of that did Carol O'Connor do?
Yeah.
We look different.
Like, the Golden Girls are in their 50s.
You know, they were...
They had all lost their husbands.
All right.
Like a 50-year-old woman today.
That was wild.
They were in their 50s.
I met a woman on an airplane.
She's in her 70s.
Mm-hmm.
I'm like, can I have your number?
She doesn't like...
Like, what the hell?
You know, like...
I'm well on do what I have to do, right?
Yeah.
But yeah, the...
I think that just because we take care of ourselves today,
it just means that we look a lot younger.
And maybe I just have good genetics.
Some of us do.
Not everybody.
I meet a lot of people.
I was just having a conversation with my friend about this the other day.
I've met a lot of people recently who are like younger than me
that I thought were 10 years older than me.
They'd just be hard to live in.
I don't know.
That's all genes.
Maybe you got good genes.
I could have good genes.
I can tell you this.
I drink a lot.
I smoke a lot.
I probably have about three drinks a day.
Really?
Yeah.
This kind of stuff?
Yeah, usually whiskey.
If there's a game on, I think there's a basketball game.
I'll have a couple of beers.
Mm.
But...
You're a big basketball fan.
Yeah.
NBA.
Yeah.
Who's your team?
Oh, the Wizards.
The Wizards.
But I like...
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, everybody.
I know, it's bad.
I like Watch the Heat.
I've flown down to Miami for Heat Games.
I've gone to games at Wells in San Francisco
and the Golden State Warriors game.
Let me tell you, it's Steph Curry.
Watching that guy, it's like...
I have said I'm a Christian.
This is...
If you don't believe in God, watch Steph Curry shoot.
Like, this man...
He is unbelievable, man.
He, like, God gave this man a gift.
And I gotta tell you, like, watching Steph Curry shoot
a basketball, it's like the Golden Ratio or something.
Yeah.
Like, that man is just...
He is amazing.
I haven't watched any basketball yet this year.
I typically don't start watching until June.
Oh, yeah, in the playoffs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's just too many games.
There's too many...
So, I mean, I like watching the Wizards.
There's also a channel on YouTube.
I watch Goated or The Goat, which they just do...
They do recaps of basketball for the whole week.
And when I say I work between 13 and 16 hours a day,
it's...
Is there a game on?
Mm-hmm.
Right, because I'll stop.
I'll watch the game.
I do like basketball.
And it's...
You can be done in two and a half hours, three hours.
You're done.
Right.
It's not like football where you're there for six or eight hours
and you gotta...
Right.
And I can't...
I can't take college basketball.
Like, it's too many teams.
Yeah.
Although, it was really neat seeing the WNDA kind of...
Or the...
Caitlyn...
What's her name?
Caitlyn Castronas.
Was that it?
I don't know.
The law firm.
I don't follow too much.
Oh, my goodness.
This woman, she...
I got it.
Was it Yukon that she played for?
So, we're gonna have people will scream at us.
This woman, I'm gonna say it's Caitlyn Castronas.
So, I'm praising her, but I barely know anything about her, right?
But this woman's a really good player.
And she...
They got kicked out of the Final Four.
His thing was Yukon and I forget the other team that played.
Again, I didn't watch any of the games
when I watched some highlights.
And she's a good player.
To me, ball is ball.
I don't care if it's college basketball, WNBA, NDA,
women's college basketball, ball is ball.
I've been to a few Mystics games.
They're good.
Mystics are good.
They're a good team.
Watching Tasha Cloud and Elinah Deledon, they're good.
I think I was the only straight male there.
It was funny.
Like, I go to the games and I'm like,
I'm like, I'm gonna do a Mystics game.
I'm gonna go.
It's like, lesbians and like, straight women who played basketball.
That's...
That was the...
The Washington Mystics.
Washington Mystics.
And then me, you know, like, I'm the only guy there.
You go into the team store and like,
a lot of their merchandise was Rainbow.
Like, Rainbow Logos.
Really?
Screwing up my Rainbow Mystics logo.
I'll rock my pride.
I'll rock my pride with the Mystics.
You drink a lot?
No.
I never drink.
I love drinking.
I like drinking, too.
Like, I seriously, I love whiskey.
When I do drink, I'll either drink whiskey
or I'll drink tequila.
I like the Cosamigos tequila.
I'll drink it straight because I don't like mixed drinks.
I hate beer.
Yeah, beer.
I mean...
You're a big ultra guy, right?
I know.
I don't...
When I'm watching the game or something like that,
I mean, it's...
It is...
I like the taste of it.
Like, I've never been like on craft beer.
You know, would you like some honey brown winter wheat?
What's wrong, dude?
It's so thick and like...
It's like drinking bread.
Yeah, I don't like that stuff.
But I don't know what it is about rye whisk,
especially those angels.
That's the best shit I've ever had.
I think that beats the basil hayden.
It's excellent.
And, you know, the other thing about this...
I told you, I have about three drinks a day.
Usually, I have one with my breakfast.
I don't eat breakfast until like 12.
I usually skip...
I skip the...
I skip my morning meal.
Oh, yeah, you're intermittent faster.
Oh, I guess so.
I mean, it doesn't seem to help.
But I think I don't eat until 12.
I like to work out fast, you know.
Yeah, that's a good way to do it.
And typically...
So, I haven't really eaten today either,
because I like...
Really?
Yeah, if I do an interview, I like to do it fast.
A little bit sharper when you're done.
Yeah, I don't know why that is.
It's because your body...
It's because your body is not using energy to digest food,
easy for you to say.
All your energy is going towards your brain.
Hey, there was a basketball player,
I guess about two years ago, who was a Muslim.
I think it was during the pandemic, and he was Turkish.
I can't remember his darn name, but he...
The nutritionists...
I think I know you're talking about...
Yeah, the nutritionists for the team he was on,
I think it was the Rockets.
They came up with like a meal that he could eat
four in the morning before the sunrise,
so that he would have the energy he needed during the day.
He had all the nutrients in it,
because he wasn't eating during the game,
wasn't drinking during the day.
He said he felt sharper, but I thought that was interesting.
Yeah, I know LeBron in the past, he's...
During play-offs times, he cuts out all sugar,
and most of the carbohydrates out of his diet.
He eats a mainly meat and protein diet.
No carbs, no sugar, none of that stuff during...
I buy that.
The carbs are delicious, especially pasta.
The carbs are so delicious, man.
Pizza, I make pizza.
It makes you so slow, especially me specifically.
Anytime I eat carbs, I just feel like I'm walking through sludge.
Everything is so much slower, I just feel so much more tired.
I eat a lot of...
Like my standard go-to meal, I'll go to Wegmans.
So not everybody knows what Wegmans is, but Wegmans is a...
You're from Jersey, right?
Yeah, originally from Jersey, but Wegmans is a Pennsylvania-based...
What do you call it?
The supermarket chain, but they have some in Maryland now too.
And Wegmans, you can go get like flat iron steaks.
So I'll get like a couple of flat iron steaks.
So literally every night, I'm having steak, broccoli,
and some kind of form of shrimp, like steak, broccoli, and bread of shrimp.
And usually for breakfast, which is really lunch,
two eggs, a couple pieces of bacon, maybe some sausage, toast.
And that keeps me full until dinner.
And I don't really snack.
Sometimes I play a character that eats Doritos.
I saw that one.
Yeah, but the odds of me...
It's one of my problems, if I have a bag of Doritos
and I open that Doritos bag, there is no more Doritos.
Nope, same way, I'm the same way.
So usually I'll save that for like a Saturday game.
I'm like, I'm going to eat this bag of Doritos.
It's going to be on a Saturday when I've done a long run.
It's still going to make me fat, but screw it all.
Watching the game, eating Doritos, drinking a beer, that's a good freaking day.
Yeah, a beer, I mean, you could have a great...
You could have the best diet in the world, but the alcohol and the booze,
I mean, that just like is nuking your system, man.
Maybe, but it's worth it.
To me it is, I typically after breakfast, so two eggs, bacon, maybe some toast,
orange juice, I take a pill, I take multivitamin, I take fish oil,
and then I'll usually have a drink and a cigar,
and then I actually usually start my day around then, believe it or not.
So typical rhyming that day, I'm usually...
You're an early riser, aren't you?
Yeah, between four and six.
I'm up, between four and six.
Military did that to you?
Maybe, could be.
Typically, I'm up between four and six.
I check my email to make sure if there's anything actionable,
like do I need to get this out right now?
Sometimes we'll do a short video, and normally I'll just drink coffee until I have to go to
the bathroom, then I'll go to the bathroom, then I'll go running or I'll wait or whatever.
And then I'll come back, I read the newspaper, I read the Wall Street Journal cover to cover.
This is work.
Cover to cover?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean...
Like the Wall Street Journal online?
I might skip some stories, yeah online.
I might skip some stories, but I'm reading the whole thing.
So you just want to be as informed as you can possibly be.
Yeah, and then I read the New York Times cover to cover.
What?
Yeah.
Are you a speed reader?
I don't know, maybe.
Maybe.
How do you...
I just, I don't know, I just do it.
I just, I get on my computer, I start reading.
Wow, how long does that take you to read all this shit?
Probably about an hour, maybe a little bit longer.
Good Lord.
But it's an investment because like I, the Wall Street Journal is a good source of information.
New York Times less so, but they have things that the Wall Street Journal might not necessarily
have, right?
And now I also read Haaretz, which is like an ultra-liberal Israeli publication.
But Haaretz, they have some of the best graphics and one of the nice things about Haaretz,
I'm pronouncing it wrong, Haaretz, is that they, I initially subscribed to them because
they had really good descriptions of all the casualties of October 7th.
So like what, like it was the best, some of the best stuff I've seen on like what each person
did, where they were, and so on.
So I won't read Haaretz cover to cover, but I will like look over them to see what the Israeli
left us thinking.
And then I answer all my emails.
I, and there's usually about 50 to 100 emails.
You have kids.
You're the worst father.
You imagine, you imagine, you know, like I would be a great uncle, like, you know,
daddy, I need my medicine.
Not now I'm finishing this drink.
Like, that's just not, yeah, that's not, I'm like, oh my God, you can't even imagine that.
That would also entail a woman would have to perform the physical act of love with me
that would actually generate a child.
You don't have to be in trouble with that, man.
It's, it's a lot harder when you're in your fifth, when you're almost 50, you're a smoker
and you, uh, you live in Washington D.C. and you're a gun owner.
Right.
Oh, you're a gun owner.
My buddy Julian, shout out to Julian Dorey, sent me this photo last night.
He's from Jersey.
Okay.
And me and him always make fun of each other.
I make fun of him for being from New Jersey.
He makes fun of me from being from Florida.
He sent me this.
I'll show it to you.
Growing up in this part of the U.S. is elite and anywhere else is mid.
What do you think about that?
Um, I mean, like, I don't really have an opinion on it.
He thinks people who grew up in Washington, Jersey, New York,
Boston, uh, they have way more character than anywhere else in the world.
Probably have more character.
That doesn't necessarily mean we're, and look at me.
I'm a character.
Yeah.
Like about two years ago, I had like a contest for people to like imitate me.
And they're like, you're your own imitation.
You know, like my own character.
Do you have any PTSD from, uh, when you're overseas?
Do you see any crazy?
I don't, uh, boy, I'm like trying to, trying to think about how to answer that.
I've had nightmares before.
You've had nightmares?
Yeah.
Like I've, uh,
No severe PTSD.
I, I, I've never been diagnosed with it,
but I couldn't even get a hearing loss claim.
So, really?
Figure that one out.
You got hearing loss?
Yeah.
Really?
You got tinnitus?
Tinnitus?
No, I don't, I don't have that, but I know I have hearing loss.
Do you have hearing aids?
No.
No.
No, I was non-service connected.
My hearing loss is non-service connected.
But, um, the, uh, there were times when I've woken up,
but I've had flashbacks before and like, um,
so flashbacks, like a lot of people think of flashback as like, uh,
like, uh, the world turns into a kaleidoscope and anagata,
the Vita starts playing up.
Maybe that, that's the case for some people, right?
But for me, um, if you remember, like in high school,
there were those old acetate overhead projector slides,
you know, those, those clear slides that you'd put on a projector.
And it's almost like the real world is one kind of slide.
And then someone else puts a different slide over top of it.
And that's the flashback.
And then they take it away really quick.
And you're like, what the heck was that?
You know, what, what, that, how did I just see that?
Like, how was that there?
How was that possible?
Like I, I want some.
Subconsciously.
Yeah.
Like I, um, I once was talking to someone and it was a, a buddy of mine.
And, and I mean, it was a girl, but it had his face and it was really weird.
Um, and it was just there for a second.
And I like, you know, I was like, what the hell is going on?
So that's what it's like for me.
I never been diagnosed with PTSD.
That, that's, I don't know.
I, I maybe I'm a sociopath, but I also, I don't think like I did anything that hard.
I just drove down a road like, Hey, drive down this road.
We want to see who blows you up.
Oh, you know, like that's just, that's kind of the, you know,
I was never a door kicker, heavy weapons or weapons company.
You're like, all right.
Hey, drive down this road.
We need, we need to go up to Tajji.
We have to pick up the commander's lucky tent peg, you know.
So we do a convoy up to wherever.
Yeah.
Like I was never in the kind of like house to house door to door fighting
where you're in people's faces.
And you know, I had mortared, but everything got mortared eventually.
I don't want to say it becomes normal, but I'll tell you this.
You know, I haven't been in combat compared to Ukraine.
I haven't been under the kind of shelling.
Like I've been under, oh, crap.
What was that?
You know, right?
Is it Thursdays or Friday?
You know, like, is it Friday?
It is Friday.
Oh, shoot.
Shoot expected today.
Are there days off?
Well, Friday is like the, the holy day in Saturday, Friday and Saturday.
That's why I don't know if you've talked to anyone from Afghanistan,
they have a term called man love Thursday.
Where guys will, will be intimate with each other.
Oh yeah.
I've heard about that.
There's a lot of that.
Yeah.
And it's, it's their thing.
It's a cultural thing.
I'm not saying it's any wrong.
It's just their culture.
But compared to like guys in Ukraine who've been under artillery fire for hours, for days,
I haven't been in combat, not even close, not even freaking close.
So, you know, I'm driving down a road and IED blows up.
The convoy behind me.
Like that's nothing.
I have nothing.
Right.
I'm not a hero.
Like not even, like not even freaking, not even close.
Right.
Yeah.
That's an interesting question though.
I like, I'm sure some guys, and I'm not.
Well, I just know a lot of kids.
I know a lot of, a lot of guys that I've met kind of like got into military or went overseas,
just not necessarily because they really wanted to,
but they really didn't have many other options.
And they thought it would be like I had three different things I could do and that sounded
like a good idea.
Never really like had this drive to go over there and fight.
I liked it.
I liked it.
You liked it.
And I was good at it.
I, you know, I, I wear, so I get this crap a lot.
I wear this Star of David.
I'm not Jewish.
The girl gave me this and I get to look up.
I get to wake up every morning and I get to look at my greatest failure every single day.
So with this girl and I was on one deployment, I was to Iraq and,
you know, I, I love this woman.
This is going to be pick a fence, you know, like this was it.
This was the woman.
Time I was doing QRF, quick reaction for us.
You know, I was lifting weights and eating steak, right?
And once in a while, maybe you get mortared or whatever, right?
Just there to react quickly, right?
And I got, I hated it.
It's like, dude, I want to go on the road.
So I liked it.
I was good at it.
And I knew what to do and I wanted to do it.
I liked it.
And I told this girl, look, you know, you know, it was being formed to volunteer
and I volunteered and she said, you better take your name off that list or you're not coming
home to me.
And I did it anyway.
I lost her.
I still have the medal that she gave me.
And I think that's why, like, that's why I'm sold.
You know, it's why I don't have a girlfriend, right?
Because like, I had the love of my life, right?
And I threw it away because I wanted to be out on the road.
You know, when you, uh, when you pull into base, you know, and the, and the navy comes out
and they read your Duke, they read your jammer, you know, like I did it.
Like you didn't get me today.
Good luck tomorrow, right?
Let's see.
Let's see what you got tomorrow.
You like the adrenaline?
I don't know if there is adrenaline.
I guess, I guess, I don't know.
There's also, there's something to be said for doing, doing something well.
You know, like there, there aren't, there wasn't a lot of things in my life that I was good at.
I was a good weapons NCO.
I was good.
Yeah.
I was good at that.
Like I knew my stuff, my guys respected me.
I knew what I was doing.
I liked the job and also I could run and people liked me, right?
That's, you know, it's, I often say like, why do I do well in the military?
Well, it's because I could run fast and people liked me.
Like that was literally it.
That's all it took, right?
Um, I don't know.
I, uh, I, uh, you know, one of the, one of the stories I tell, I love telling the story.
I was, um, when I, uh, when, when she ended things with me, the girl who gave me this necklace,
when she ended things, uh, when I came back, um, I talked to this rabbi.
I talked with her rabbi because I was like, maybe like you can talk to her, get us back together.
You know, and while I was there, we're talking, I talk about this one.
I was in a dangerous situation and I came out smelling like a rose, you know.
And, uh, I asked the rabbi, like, you know, I didn't, I was like, do you think maybe God
has a special plan for me?
And the rabbi went, maybe God has a special plan for someone else in the vehicle.
I should have talked to a priest.
Like, thanks a lot, buddy.
Should have talked to an Episcopal priest.
Thanks a lot, buddy.
Uh, but he wasn't wrong, right?
Like what a typically Jewish answer.
And what makes you so special?
Right.
Nothing.
Right.
There's absolutely nothing special about me.
Right?
Yeah.
So, yeah, that's, you know, I get to, I, every morning I wake up, I brush my teeth,
I look at myself in the mirror and I see my greatest failure every day.
How lucky am I, right?
How lucky does that make me that I get to look at my biggest failure every single day.
That drives me to move forward.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, if I'm not going to have that life, well, you know, I'll have this other life.
This isn't so bad.
I get to fly around, I get to talk to people, I, I, I get to, I, I wrote software that killed bad guys.
Right?
Like I put, my software was able to find bad guys that ultimately put a hellfire for their window.
And the world is a better place.
I tell you something, you want, you want to, you want to, you want to, you want to, you want to,
you know, I, I, I actually had a, I never saw her again.
I had a girl ask me like, how do you feel?
I was like, when, when you find out that happened, how do I feel?
Feel like going home, cracking open a beer, ordering a pizza and watching the wizards.
That's how I feel.
You'd be a great CIA officer.
Well, I, you know, that's what they look for when they recruit.
They look for people on the, on the edge of sociopathy.
I don't think I'm a sociopath.
I think I'm too old to.
Sociopathic tendencies.
You can't be full blown.
You just got to be, you know, you got to have the tendencies.
Dude, if there's, there's a bad guy, you know, I mean, our software is so good.
Like so freaking good.
Like I want to look for all, all, all vehicles that are white trucks with a dent.
White trucks with a dent in the rear quarter panel.
All white trucks, the dent in the rear quarter panel, whose phone numbers have, you know,
have this phone number.
Oh, this is daddy ElBaddy's driver.
All right.
Let's, let's, let's, let's track this guy.
Yep, this is daddy ElBaddy.
He's coming out of that vehicle.
He's walking with a limp.
You know, that must be daddy ElBaddy.
All right.
How many people?
What's, what's the end?
What's the, uh, NVC?
Oh God, the non-combatant cut off.
Forget the, the acronym for that.
And, and CV, NCV, non-combatant cut off value.
All right.
What's the non-combatant cut off value?
All right.
Zero.
Okay.
Well, there's no civilians around.
Non-combatant cut off value is like a, like, all right, we can, we can take this guy out
if there's five civilians around him.
NCV of five, NCV of 10.
All right.
There's 10 civilians around him.
We can take him out.
Anything more, we have to go up the chain.
All right.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, look, you got to do it.
Yeah.
All right.
There's Daddy L. Batty.
All right.
How many people is Daddy L. Batty going to kill?
And, and some of these guys, they hide around civilians.
Like, you don't want to hit civilians.
You know, the irony of that too, of like covert action and like tactical, surgical strikes
that sometimes, like, like this guy is important enough that we're okay if it takes out 10 civilians.
But what is that compared to like boots on the ground, conventional warfare, right?
Like covert, like this is the big debate of covert action versus,
versus conventional boots on the ground warfare.
Why not have just mercenaries that you deploy just to take off the head of the snake,
guys that are going to go out and just, and cut throats, right, of the leaders and not
have all those civilian casualties and not destroy the lives of these soldiers, whether
they're, whether they're drafted or whether they just, you know, volunteered to go to war.
It seems like, I don't know, it seems like it would be a little bit better of an option.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm sure that's, I'm sure contractors are used in some cases.
That's a little bit beyond my, my skill level or what I do.
I mean, I just tell the, tell my client where the bad guys are.
Yeah.
What they do after that, you know, it's up to them, right?
Right.
But, I mean, I, I can see, so sometimes you need boots on the ground because you need
to change government or whatever, right?
The, that's, that's a question that I'm sure Israel faced after October 7th.
Like, do we hit them with a sledgehammer or do we do these pinpricks?
Surgical.
Right.
Do we do surgical?
And they went with the sledgehammer.
Sometimes you need the sledgehammer, right?
Like, sometimes that, that you can kill your way out of a problem.
How many Seminoles do you see here?
Good Lord.
Right.
Like, that's kind of a horrible thing to say.
Yeah.
I'm sure it's, it's really horrible what Andrew Jackson did to all those Seminoles,
but I'm sure you're like, it's nice it doesn't snow, right?
So, you know, like sometimes you use the sledgehammer.
Right.
Okay.
What do you think happens with China, Taiwan?
That's a tough one.
Either, so I'm not saying that is in public knowledge, either China's going to attack
Taiwan in October or this year.
For the elections.
With missiles, yeah, for the election.
Or they're going to wait until 2036.
So it's, if it's this year, it'll be a missile attack.
It's 2036, 2035, 2036 could be an invasion.
Could be as early as 2037.
Or 20, 2027, but I don't think so.
They need time to train, build up equipment.
And I, number one, I hope it doesn't happen because there's a lot of people in China.
The China, so this is probably going to get played on a loop
by propagandists, but Taiwanese are Chinese, right?
They have people, they have relatives who live in China.
And they don't want to.
One China Ryan over here.
Well, I mean, it's the truth, right?
Like how did Taiwan form?
Well, it was the white, it was the whites, right?
It was the people who left mainland China.
They went to Taiwan, established their own government there.
They let the communists do their thing.
So they have relatives back in mainland China.
There's trade.
I think Taiwan is one of China's biggest trading partners, right?
Here's the other thing.
If Vietnam and Afghanistan had a baby, it would look like Taiwan.
If you look at the geography of Taiwan, the entire western half of Taiwan,
I think the entire western two thirds of Taiwan is all mountains.
So Taiwan is basically Afghanistan with leaves.
And every Taiwanese male knows how to use a gun.
Every Taiwanese male is conscripted.
And they have quite a few females that volunteer.
And one of the most popular things to do in Taiwan now is join these shooting clubs.
Really, they're like airsoft clubs.
But they have these shooting clubs where guys learn,
you know, they do tactics and stuff like that.
These are people who do not want to be slaves.
And there will be a Taiwanese dude with a rifle behind every blade of grass
and every single mountain pass if China tries to invade.
And China doesn't want to blow up their infrastructure, do they?
Well, that's a good question.
I mean, ideally, you'd like to capture the chip fabs intact, right?
Because that's what Taiwan is, right?
Taiwan is the chip factory to the west.
Right, right.
All right.
And so you want those chip fabs because I want to say 90% of all the world's
chips are made in Taiwan, you know, and you can't run your country without chips, right?
Chips, I'd say the chips today are the steel of World War II, right?
We won World War II based on all the steel that came out of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, right?
Well, chips today, they go into the high tech equipment that allows us to fight wars,
right?
That allows us to do the C4ISR, the Command Control Communications,
Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance to find where the bad guys are.
If I had better C4ISR than you, I know where you're going to be and what you're going to do,
I can stop that from happening, right?
And we're getting into AI and using AI to figure out where the bad guys are going to be,
what they're going to do next, who is doing what and why.
Like that's in the Intel world, the why is that's the big thing.
Like if you can figure out the why, it's like, yeah, I can tell you who.
Yeah.
But why, that's the golden ticking, right?
Why is this, what you're doing this?
So, I mean, they'll probably try to capture the chip plants intact.
I don't know.
I would imagine the Taiwanese, they may or may not have explosives on those
fabs or will destroy them themselves somehow if they detect an invasion.
That's certainly possible.
Yeah.
I mean, I would imagine they don't have explosives on them now.
What do you think?
That is an accountable item.
What do you think the U.S. reaction would be?
Probably send an aircraft carrier along with Great Britain, France, Australia, New Zealand.
Australia?
Yeah.
Really?
Some of the best special forces in the world in Australia.
The fight isn't necessarily going to be in Taiwan.
But wait, isn't Australia really dependent on China?
There's trade with China.
But Australia, Australia is at war with China right now.
Really?
Yeah, cyber and information war.
I'm going to a conference in July, I think.
It's the 2024 Emergency Medicine Conference, Emergency Services Conference.
We have the darn name of it, but it's at the Gold Coast.
I'm going to be speaking there.
I'm going to be presenting a paper on how misinformation can be used during a natural disaster.
The Hawaii, I don't remember the Hawaii wildfires.
Oh yeah.
So that was a lot of the...
Wait, the wildfires, what?
In Hawaii.
When was this?
You're not talking about Maui, right?
Yes, the Maui wildfires.
Oh, that was a Chinese...
Wait a minute, was it a directed energy weapon?
No, it was not directed energy weapon.
Like that kind of thing.
Oh God, I wanted to get into that.
I got to talk about the inverse square rule.
When you, for every, as you double the distance, the power drops by the inverse of the square.
There was a wildfire, but one of the things that Russia did was they started to push this narrative
of people are only getting $700 in payments.
And they were, but those were the initial payments.
FEMA was, you lose your house, FEMA gives you a $700 gift card and says,
come back tomorrow, use this $700 gift card to go buy clothes and get a hotel room,
and tomorrow we fill out your real paperwork.
But Brainiacs, like Tulsi Gabbard, a woman who I can't even fathom how she still has a security
clearance, she goes on jarogan and says, like, oh, we're only giving $700 to people in Hawaii.
Like, I have to fight that, right?
You know, a woman you should have on here, Carolyn Orbueno.
This woman is amazing.
She is, she fights disinformation.
She's like, she's the real thing.
I'm a celebrity.
Carolyn Orbueno is the real thing.
She has a blog called or a substack called weaponized spaces, weaponizedspaces.substack.com.
She gets into a lot of how misinformation works and the misinformation actors.
And she's a PhD, Dr. Carolyn Orbueno.
This is alcoholic Ryan McBeth, right?
Compared to Dr. Carolyn Orbueno.
She does a lot of good stuff with that.
But the, how did I get onto that subject?
You said something about Russia using disinformation.
Yeah, so yeah, Russia used disinformation in Hawaii on wildfires.
So I'm actually going to this conference in Australia.
Australia is at war with China right now because they put out disinformation to try to
discourage people from trusting their government.
A couple of days ago, there was a stabbing, like a mass stabbing.
Where?
In Australia.
Okay.
At the Bondi Mall.
I saw that.
Yeah, I did a video about that.
And you know, in China's watching that because they're looking at that going like,
okay, when we invade Taiwan, how can we use misinformation and disinformation
against the Australian people to convince them not to fight or to say, you know, hey,
let's have protests saying like Taiwan has always been Chinese, right?
I said, TikTok is a weapon.
You know, just a couple of days ago, there were people in, there were people who shut down
the San Francisco bridge, shut down C-TAC airport.
Yes, all that.
You know what else can do that?
A missile.
Mm-hmm.
TikTok is a weapon.
That is a weapon that can be deployed like a cruise missile to take out a bridge.
The only difference is that-
Not just TikTok, all social media platforms, YouTube, Twitter.
They can all be used as weapons.
They can.
The only difference is that I can subpoena the chairman of Google.
I can't subpoena the chairman of TikTok.
Well, TikTok is mainly owned by Americans.
I am not familiar with that.
So TikTok is owned by a company called Bite Dance, which is out of China.
Bite Dance only has a very small share of TikTok.
Can we, let's find out who actually owns TikTok.
Can you find out the breakup of the shares?
All right, let's see what we got here.
Say who like a breakdown of TikTok ownership.
Who's the owner of TikTok again?
TikTok, okay.
This is from CNN.
So take that for what it's worth.
TikTok is ultimately owned through a complex multi-layered corporation structure by Bite
Dance, a privately owned technology giant.
The app is owned by TikTok LLC, Limited Liability Incorporated in Delaware.
Okay, Incorporated in Delaware based in Culver City, California.
So can we find out who the, because there's a board of who's on the board?
What is this?
I know it's on Wikipedia, but.
Yeah, Doyin is known as TikTok.
Chinese internet entrepreneur, he founded.
What percentage?
So Zhang owns 50% of Bite Dance's shares.
I can tell you that.
Percentage Chinese.
TikTok has said around 60% of Bite Dance is owned by
institutional investors, including U.S. giant BlackRock.
Bite Dance's founders have a 20% stake, but the remainder is held by employees,
according to TikTok, Incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
Well, this says Incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
Oh, Bite Dance is Incorporated in the Cayman Islands is also lists
General Atlantic among its investors.
Okay, so it's just kind of a mix of a whole bunch of people.
Well, a lot of multinational corporations are like that.
What percentage of TikTok is owned by U.S. investors?
I'm actually not familiar with that.
I didn't know that that was a public company.
Yeah, according to a release published by TikTok last May around 60% of Bite Dance,
this is exactly what we just read.
Go down, who is a majority?
Majority stakeholder.
Bite Dance.
See, this is so, it's so hard to find it.
I can tell you this.
Any Chinese company, it has to be 51% owned by China, by Chinese investors.
So the parent company, that's actually a huge problem with investment in China,
because once you agree to manufacture things or sell things in China,
you have to partner with a Chinese company and they have to get 51% and they steal all your IP.
That's gone.
So my understanding is, and Steve, I don't know what else you can find on here.
You're going to probably have to dig.
But my understanding was that the majority of TikTok was owned by U.S. shareholders,
and it's a U.S.-based company.
There is a U.S.-based version of TikTok.
In China, it's Douyin, but it's owned by Bite Dance.
Yeah.
Right.
So there is a Bite Dance America that when we talk about banning TikTok,
that doesn't necessarily mean banning TikTok, it means that TikTok has to be sold
to someone in the U.S. who can be subpoenaed in front of Congress.
Right, right.
That's kind of the issue.
And that is our version of TikTok, right?
It is owned by the U.S. and the owner can be subpoenaed.
Yeah, I think-
And it's not like there's this idea that TikTok is,
our TikTok is just China-controlled, but that's not the case.
There's China is almost definitely getting all the data, without a doubt.
They have access to the data or they're setting orders down.
I mean, if you, I can tell you this, the scary part about something like TikTok
is that if China does invade Taiwan, they could just flip a switch and the next day say,
hey, listen, you're not allowed to have any pro-Taiwan videos on American TikTok anymore.
Now, maybe some people will say like, oh no, I'm not going to allow that to happen, right?
But when your job's on the line, you got kids you got to put through college,
what are you going to say?
What are you going to do, right?
That's kind of the scary part for me, that we've allowed a weapon system to infiltrate this country.
But I can tell you this, that there's people who, there are people who've been radicalized
against Israel via TikTok.
I mean, anti-Semitism is cool.
It's not cool, but they think it is.
Whenever you hear the word Zionists, just replace it with the word Jews,
when you, I can tell you, some of the things I've seen people say,
it's kind of crazy, because it's almost like, it's almost like people can get very dark.
And, you know, I, you know, I'm the kind of Madhavik.
I can speak a little Arabic, I talk like an Egyptian,
which is better than walking like an Egyptian or driving like one.
And, you know, I look at, I have a lot of sympathy for the Palestinians.
And anybody who actually watches my videos knows that I do,
because I criticize Israeli army all the time.
You guys need to get your crap together and do things the right way, you know.
But I look at, I look at, I look at TikTok, where it's almost cool to be racist as long as the
person you're fighting against is a Jew.
And that should be terrifying, because that's not what America is about.
We're not about, we're not about hating each other for the religion.
Like, I don't care if you're a Muslim, I don't care which God you worship,
what day you go to the, the day you go to church, right?
That's not what America is about.
And I think we've let this company come into our country and divide us.
And a lot of the people who protest against Israel, they think,
you know, fear of Gaza until relatively recently.
Right, you couldn't find it on a map if you paid it.
Couldn't find it on a map, but it's cool.
And I, I, when I, I, I wrote, I did a whole video about how I would actually shut down the Beltway.
And I could shut down the Beltway for about, what's the Beltway?
The Beltway is this ring road that surrounds Washington, DC.
It's called 495, the Beltway, or the term Beltway Bandits, right?
Like a lot of guys, anyone who works for a contracting company
in DC kind of knows what I'm talking about.
There's always a guy and he's a project manager.
He has a PMP project management certificate and he just drives in circles around the Beltway.
Hitting every single contracting site, you know, around the Beltway.
Having meetings, you know, you wonder, what the hell does this guy do?
He drives around in circles in the Beltway having meetings, right?
So I figured out we could shut down the Beltway for $13,000 just by creating a video
targeting white women who have money, who belong to certain affinity groups,
or people who are environmentalists, who will come out and protest.
So we could just totally shut down the Beltway and tie up traffic.
Just like a missile would, you know, tie up traffic if it hit a bridge, right?
You can do that for $13,000 on TikTok.
There was a guy the other day, so I will fight disinformation no matter who it was from.
There was this one guy who owns a company that I guess like it allows people to explore their
Jewish roots and like go to, like you want to do a Lea, like go back to Israel and, you know,
explore. So this guy owns this company. It does that or it's a non-profit.
But he put a video up of an Israeli F-15 shooting down a drone.
I watched this video. I'm like, this is DCS, which is a video simulation game.
This is a video game. This guy put up. Yeah. You can see it by the smoke,
the camouflage, the plane wasn't the right color. And I was like, I made a video about it.
I'm like, look, I don't care what side you're on. If you're on the Palestinian,
there was a Palestinian group. It's called the Kuds News Network.
They put out a video saying like, there are these meat cans that Israel dropped via jet.
And the meat cans have explosives in them. And a child was already killed.
You know, they're dropping these cans and they think it's meat and they open and they explode.
These cans were, so again, this is kind of on the Israeli army for being stupid.
But so these cans were the containers for fuses for M-15 landmines.
And what happens is that Israel, when they did want to blow up a tunnel,
they have these M-15 landmines. You see the entire tank landmines.
And they put them inside the tunnel and they connect them with debt cord,
which is an explosive cord. Now, because they're going to be wired to explode through debt cord,
they, if you're trying to find it, you find, yeah, those things, those are not,
residents in several areas across Gaza confirmed that Israel's military leaves bombs looked like
canned meat. These are not meat cans. These are fuses. You see that key right there?
So this is what's called dip, deceptive imagery persuasion. It's a type of disinformation
where you use a truthful picture to lead people toward a narrative conclusion,
a guided narrative conclusion. So in this case,
they want people to think that these are supposed to be cans of meat.
Really inside that is a fuse. You put this fuse in an M-15 landmine.
Now, what the Israelis are doing is they're opening up the landmine packaging.
They take the fuse, they throw that on the ground. They wire the M-15 landmine with debt cord.
And then they blow it up and they leave. Now, what do they leave behind?
Those containers of fuses. So they didn't police up their crap. So they left those things on the
ground. So what does the average Palestinian do? They take pictures of it. Look, the Israelis
are putting bombs on the ground for hungry children to find. I will take you down and then
I will also take down the Jewish dude that says, and a 15 shot down this drone when it's actually,
I don't care who you are, I will come after you like a freaking pit bull if you lie.
It's messy, dude. It's messy. It's hard. And what's funny is I would say probably about 25%
of the emails I get every day are like people saying, is this dip? Is this deceptive imagery
persuasion? And then I got to go look like, yeah, this is deceptive. No, they're actually really
doing this. This is actually true. Yeah. Yeah. Like, hey, man, it's hard. I mean,
look, everything is influenced by it. Not just TikTok, but YouTube is, I don't know how much
Twitter is now, but I mean, who knows what Elon's, you know, what kind of access he has to grind,
but, you know, demonetization is a way to get people to self-censor. You've seen it. I've seen
it. Yeah. And thank God for Substack. If it wasn't for Substack, it wouldn't be able to pay my bills.
Really? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. How often do you post on there?
So everything I post on YouTube, I also post on Substack. What's kind of nice about Substack,
RyanBethThoughtSubstack.com. What's kind of nice about Substack is that
whenever I post a video, Substack sends out an email, so I'm not relying on YouTube's bell.
It's like Patreon kind of. Yeah. Yeah, but I wanted, I actually have a Patreon,
which I got because I found out people were going on Patreon pretending to be me.
So I got a Patreon and just didn't use it, like just so people couldn't scam other people.
But I wanted to give people a dollar value. So I set the price for my Substack of five bucks.
You can get it for free. If you want to support me, give me five bucks.
And that five dollars that gives you access to is like, if you ever have a class you have to do,
if you're in the army and you have a class about like, I need to do a class about the Houthis,
boom, I got a freaking, I got a, I got a PowerPoint right there. That's amazing.
You just take that PowerPoint, download it, and now you got a class. Oh, that's incredible.
There's another YouTuber, a guy named Preston Stewart. Preston Stewart is amazing.
He is an officer in the reserves. I believe he's a major now. And Preston, so what I do for NCOs,
he does for officers. So we kind of war game this. I believe on YouTube, there's enough cake for
everyone to eat. You know, I think there's plenty of good content creators. I can talk about Jake
Bro. I can talk about tea supply. I can talk about mandatory fun day. There's so many good
creators out there that I can look at Preston Stewart and say, you know what,
you should follow Preston Stewart if you're an officer and you kind of want to know what's
going on in the world. If you want to know about weapons, that's Ryan McBeth. And there's like,
he definitely has a role to play. And so he's kind of taken over that whole like,
if you're a lieutenant in the army and you want to know what's going on in the world and like a
daily briefing or find out about like, hey, this is what Nigeria's army is dealing with right now,
Preston Stewart all day. He's a great resource. If you're an NCO, Ryan McBeth.
Ryan, we just did a four hour podcast.
Four hours? I only got half the model done. What the hell, man?
We'll take you, take it home with you.
That'll get confiscated by the TSA. We'll bring it to dinner with us.
Which they will probably destroy slowly.
It's chugger before you get in. Thanks for coming down here and doing this podcast, man. I really
appreciate it. This has been super enlightening. And for anyone who's watching, where can they
find your YouTube channel? Obviously, I'll link everything below.
So they can find my YouTube channel, Ryan McBeth Programming, where I talk about all sorts of
stuff from software issues to cybersecurity, to software issues to cybersecurity, to what's
going on in the world, to different kinds of weapons systems or ryanbeth.substack.com.
You can also follow me on Twitter at ryanmcbeth or on Instagram at the real Ryan McBeth because
there are a bunch of people who tried to pretend to be me on Instagram.
So I am available. You can just Google Ryan McBeth will pop right up.
Beautiful, man. Thanks again.
It's been great. I had a great time.
I really enjoyed this, man.
I didn't even know four hours? Oh my god.
Four hours.
We gotta finish this bottle.
We'll finish it.
I don't even finish this cigar, man.
It's delicious.
Good night, world.
