Hello world, Juan Sanchez is a real estate con man who served nearly a decade in prison
for committing $30 million in bank fraud.
During his scheme he lost millions of dollars which he was supposed to be laundering for
the Sinaloa Cartel and as a result he was kidnapped by the Venezuelan government and
barely escaped with his life.
Juan's story about escaping Venezuela and the threats that he got from the Venezuelan
government are absolutely terrifying and it's amazing that this guy is still alive and able
to tell his story.
Without further ado please welcome Juan Sanchez.
Juan Sanchez.
Yes sir.
How you doing man?
How you doing?
I'm great, I'm great.
Thank you for coming on here to tell your story with Matt.
Matt's very familiar with the story he told me about you.
You guys recently did a really interesting podcast together.
You guys are both mortgage fraudsters.
We like to call it colleagues.
Colleagues?
Yeah we're both colleagues.
But you guys didn't work together in mortgage?
No, no, no.
Okay.
How did you guys meet?
That's...
Sorry, that's funny.
Well...
When he got the Coleman.
Yeah, we did time in the same prison.
Okay.
When you go into prison they kind of screen you out, you know they screen you out based
on your race and based on your crime and the time you got.
So I walked in and they asked me, listen, what are you here for?
I said fraud.
They said, how much money?
39 million.
And they just made the numbers in their minds, they're like, okay 39 million, how much time
did you get?
I said 15 years.
Okay.
Yeah, it adds up.
It adds up.
You know that guy over there?
Yeah.
That's Matt Cox.
That's who you need to talk to.
So I guess he was like the rep of the fraudsters in the prison.
Woo hoo hoo.
Is that true Matt?
I remember.
I mean I do remember him kind of coming over and I didn't know the whole background
where they were like, anything, but he came over and he was like, hey, I want to talk to
you.
He screened me out.
He said, well, let me talk to you about, you know, bank fraud and what do you know about
putting together fake identities and people and giving them a social security.
And I said, yeah, and you put the trade lines and he's like, oh, we're going to get along.
You know what you're talking about.
So yeah, we had a little group about, they used to call them the smart white people.
The smart white people.
Yeah.
And they will tell me like this.
We were the smart white people and yeah, and it will be him and Frank and Doug and we'll
play risk.
Wow.
So yeah.
Same little club in the moment.
Yeah, we have a little club.
I'm not sure.
We had our own gang.
I don't know how Doug got involved.
Yeah.
Well, he was quite frank.
Unqualified.
Equal under white equal.
50% of the requirement there.
Not smart.
That's smart.
Yeah.
So when did you get released?
I got released December 23rd.
I didn't know I was getting released.
Oh, last year?
Yeah.
I've been out for seven months.
Wow.
That's why I still smell like a mackerel.
Wow.
Yeah.
I carry stamps in my pockets and things like that.
I'm still getting used to currency.
And you were telling me before we started recording, you're not allowed to drive still
and you're not allowed to work either.
That's correct.
When I, I was released from prison in June 2nd and then I was taken to ICE.
So I was under immigration custody for seven months and in there I got a removal order
and due to the nature of my case, or one of my cases, my life is at risk if they send
me back to Venezuela.
I have former friends that want to kill me, more like clients, clients that they want
to kill me.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can't go back to Venezuela.
I cannot go back to Venezuela.
It would be bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think I will make it past 50,000 feet.
Really?
Yeah.
Because I'm on the plane.
Are you worried about your safety?
Even being in Florida?
Well, not in Florida.
You know, it's hardly ever you'll find somebody that will do the job.
My kids were worried for a while, but definitely going abroad, yeah, it's a problem for me.
Because it's government people and the government, they have long arms.
So they, so Colombia, Brazil, Spain, you know, those countries are, they have a lot
of influence there.
So going back, how did you eventually land in prison?
How did you land in Coleman?
Yeah, you got, how'd you come to the United States?
Well, I didn't come to the United States to do time in prison.
I came before that, Matt, you know?
So you came to the United States?
I actually lived a straight line for a while.
For a short while?
A short while.
So I came to the United States, I'm from Venezuela.
So I came to the United States when I was 16, 15, 16, went to high school in Florida,
then I went to Minnesota, St. Claude, Minnesota, and I did some college there.
And I got into fraternities and partying and, you know, I was a dark-skinned guy in an all-white
town and, you know, quite popular.
And then I moved back to Orlando, and I didn't have any money, I didn't know what to do.
I got my real estate license and I started selling timeshare.
And I realized that I had a talent for persuading people.
You know, I don't know if you guys have ever been to a timeshare presentation?
Never.
I think everybody should go to one.
Really?
Yeah.
They invite you for two Disney tickets and a free breakfast, and 90 minutes later you're
walking out of there with a $50,000 mortgage on a product that doesn't work, and I was
really good.
I actually became one of the top salespeople in the world in 1991, 1992.
And then I got hired by another company to develop their training program.
And I developed it, I executed it, and I quit.
And they enforced a non-compete.
So I couldn't work for two years.
And during those two years, I decided to start teaching real estate to Spanish people because
there wasn't a real estate school that was teaching Spanish.
Like this format that you guys have right now, I'm Hispanic.
So I look at concrete, and I think the channel is phenomenal, but nobody's doing what you
guys are doing in Spanish.
So I will find those niches and kind of like attack them.
So I opened my real estate school, and I became like a cult leader.
I had these people coming to my classes, and I will motivate them, and I made them walk
through glass and break boards.
So you were like the Hispanic Tony Robbins.
Yeah, Antonio.
Antonio Robbins.
Yeah.
That's a whole, that story all together, but yeah.
So I had like a little cultish thing going, and I said, man, I can't get these guys to
sell for me.
I can't open like a real estate timeshare organization.
So I had hundreds of people with a real estate license working for me, and that's how I got
into the real estate market, actually.
I realized that nobody was doing what I was doing, bringing masses of salespeople to bring
masses of clients into projects.
What year was this?
Oh my God, 2001.
Because I remember my first real estate class, I had to cancel it because the Twin Towers
had happened.
Oh, okay.
Wow.
And I was teaching on like the 11th floor of the Holiday Inn, and my wife at the time
called me and was like, oh my God, the next plane is going to you.
So I did that, because I had so many salespeople.
I was able to sell things that nobody was selling.
So the developers started reaching out to me, and they said, listen, man, we have this
property.
As a matter of fact, I had a product here in Tampa.
I had a couple of projects here in a...
What kind of, when you say projects, what do you mean specifically?
You had these developers that bought apartment complexes, and they couldn't sell them.
They would buy them, break them into pieces, and sell them an apartment at a time.
That's what they call...
Right, right, right.
Okay.
Tampa Palms was big into that back on those days.
So they will call me in and said, man, we made a mistake.
We bought this property, and we can sell it.
Can you help us out?
And I'll say, well, 150 apartments.
Let me see.
I have 300 salespeople.
If 50% of my sales force sells one, I'll sell you out in two weeks.
So I will put it out there in one of my classes, and they will go in there and you sell it
out in a week or two weeks.
And I became well-known for that.
I was the go-to guy to sell product that nobody was buying.
How much money are you making at that time doing this with 300 salespeople?
Well, on the seven digits, maybe.
Yeah.
But I was a real estate school.
People were paying me $300 a pop to take my classes.
So I was filling up a room with 150 people every weekend.
So I was doing really good.
You were doing well at that time.
Really well.
And the problem is, people like Matt got in the industry, and they started getting the
banks a little nervous.
So they started saying, well, we're going to start asking for down payment.
You guys are young.
You don't remember the days of no money down to buy a house.
No, unfortunately.
I've heard the stories, though.
Oh, my God.
Listen, you will go anywhere, and you'll say, well, half a million dollars, how much do
I need down?
I don't know, $700 for the price.
For the down payment.
No, don't worry about it.
We got it.
So everybody bought no money down.
Then the banks said, listen, we're not going to take no money down anymore.
We need 10%.
We need 15%.
Well, I had people on contracts with no money down.
So that's when things began to get a little shady for me.
But it's funny, because I was talking to Matt on the way here.
To be a white-collar fraudster, you have to understand the concept of fraud.
And I think you guys, or the audience, like I did a podcast with Matt, and people were
going, what did he do?
That is wrong.
I bought my house like that.
And I'm like, listen, first of all, don't be saying that, because you broke the law.
And second of all, fraud is such a weird concept to understand, because if you lie, it's not
really fraud.
Like I told you, my name is Juan, and we do this podcast.
And tomorrow you find out my name is Jose.
Well, I didn't commit fraud.
I just lied.
But if you sold product, because my name was Juan, and then your vendors come after you
because they find out my name is Jose, then you suffer damages.
And that's the problem.
So as long as the banks were getting paid, and everybody was making money, everybody
was happy.
So the banks are not lending any money.
I get a call from this guy.
He says, man, I have 180 apartments.
I need to sell them out.
I said, OK, I'm going in.
And I look at the apartments, and I go, how much are you selling them for?
150,000.
I said, can I sell them for 300,000?
He said, yeah, how are you going to do that?
So don't worry about it.
I've got to increase the value of this apartment complex to 300,000.
How much do you want out of each apartment?
They said 150,000.
I said, OK, so the other 150,000 I can use for whatever I want.
And he said, yeah, I don't care.
I said, all right, that's fine.
So what I would do is I would take two or three apartments and do a fake closing on
them.
So I will register a buyer.
It will show a price of 300,000.
And then I will get an appraiser and say, listen, can you appraise this apartment for
300,000?
These are the comfort, the comps.
So he will use those apartments and increase the value.
And then I will take buyers and I will tell them, don't worry about it.
If you don't have the down payment, I'll give it to you.
It's 300,000.
The down payment is 20%, so it's 60,000.
And on top of that, I'm going to give you 80,000 for you to take home on the closing
table.
And they were loving it, loving it.
Weren't they suspicious of that, though?
The clients or the bank?
The people that are buying it.
Like if someone's coming to you, it's trying to sell you where they care.
Most people, if you told them, look, I'm going to give you $100,000 and I'm going to ruin
your credit.
So you might have to claim bankruptcy.
Your credit's going to be ruined, but you get $100,000.
99% of people will go, absolutely, no problem.
I'll take it for 100,000.
When's a regular guy from Walmart who works at Walmart going to get $100,000?
Where you are getting your buyers from is the key.
It could be any person.
It doesn't matter.
Even if they're suspicious, they're like, they think they're getting over on you.
Like they're like, yeah, I'll do that.
Like, oh my God, I hope he doesn't figure out that this doesn't make sense.
You know what the main problem we had?
People would come and say, listen, can I buy five and you'll give me like 80,000 for each?
And I'd be like, well, I cannot give you 80,000 for each.
But if you buy five, you probably get about 60, maybe 50 each.
You do one owner occupied and four investment properties, which means you need a larger
down payment, but I can still get your money back.
So you get $250,000.
So they'll say, okay, I'll buy five or you'll do like a shotgun closing.
You close them all at the first time, at the same time, and they're all owner occupied.
I've done six.
No, I did eight owner occupied duplexes one time.
She didn't move into one of them.
For a Hillsborough County Sheriff's Deputy's wife.
Sorry.
And what's crazy is back on those days, which is what's happening right now, you didn't
have to close in the closing in the title company.
So you will walk away with like five, you know, priority mail envelopes and you'll be
like, okay, sign here.
Not right.
Not right.
Okay.
Now sign this one.
Now send it.
Congratulations.
You own five apartments.
You take it back to the title company.
They close it.
They send you the check.
So it was insane.
And like that, I sold $39 million worth of a real estate in one project.
How long did that take?
That probably about two months to hand maybe two to three months.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
So everything is fine.
People are paying their mortgage.
Everybody's happy.
The bank's happy.
I'm happy.
The developers are happy.
Then one day banks stop lending and the property starts going down 2008 down 2006.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Going down and people stop paying their mortgages.
I get a letter saying, listen.
You have 40 apartments in the project that you sold going on foreclosure.
I said, well, 40.
That means 140 are still good.
All right.
You know, this property is going on foreclosure everywhere in the United States anyway.
That's a huge percentage.
Well, you know, then I get another letter and it's like, listen, dude, you have 80 apartments
on foreclosure right now.
And I'm like, well, the economy is hurting.
These guys are probably hurting.
That's not my fault.
They'll pay it back.
They'll catch up with their loans, you know.
Then I get a letter saying, listen, 160 apartments are on foreclosure.
Like nobody's paying their freaking mortgage.
Like this is writing you these are the company, Freddie Mac banks, the title company, because
now they're going after the title company is going, listen.
Where are these people?
Yeah.
What's going on?
More guts brokers.
I mean, everybody, they're pointing the finger at everybody and everything's going back
at me.
And the last person that contacted me about those apartments was the federal government.
And they said, did you sell 180 apartments?
Yeah.
They're all on foreclosure.
Like nobody's paying their mortgage in there.
And the apartments are worth about 39,000 right now.
So telling me felt bad about that.
Nobody feels worse about that than me.
I was broken.
I'm hard.
But what really broke my heart is when the prosecutor said, and you know where I live?
A mile from that apartment complex.
From my house about, you went to shit because of you.
And I said, well, you know, it wasn't because of me because I didn't sell you your house,
but you should have gotten cash back when you could.
How much cash back did you get?
Listen, it's not too late.
I could have got you a better deal.
I could have gotten you five apartments and you could have paid off your house.
Did you anticipate any of this happening?
Did you anticipate these people maybe one day wouldn't be able to pay their mortgages?
Because obviously you didn't check their income or you didn't give a shit.
I didn't check anything.
Right.
We used to have what's called a mirror test.
And I used to tell them, listen, put a mirror in their face.
If it steams up, you got a buyer.
He's alive.
He's breathing.
You got a buyer.
He's got a pulse.
Yeah.
Let's put them in black and white.
You know.
That's hilarious.
And I had like these beautiful women on the cell center.
So guys will walk in and they will be like, well, you know, you can really get three apartments.
I mean, your credit is good.
And they will be like, okay.
And they will, you know.
So I had a whole set up.
So did I think it was going to happen?
I don't know.
I don't know what Matt's opinion is on this, but I think when you're on that roll is such
an adrenaline rush and you're kind of like getting away with things and that you start
justifying what you're doing.
You can become emboldened too.
Every time there's a, every time there's a problem and you handle it, what's the big
deal?
You're making that much money.
There's an issue.
You make a couple of phone calls.
It gets handled.
So what?
What the problem is, is when it starts coming in so fast, you can't handle the problems
anymore.
You just don't anticipate it.
And every, a crime is a crime.
And I think sometimes, you know, like people here are stalking and they're like, man, I
got, somebody told me the other day, oh, you went to this guy's podcast and you're a glorifying
crime.
And I said, man, I'm not glorifying crime, but a crime is a crime is crime.
You know?
So I think-
Nobody wants to hear you cry.
Nobody wants to see me sit here and cry and cry.
I feel so bad.
I'm so sorry.
And it's so bad.
I went to prison.
It was 15 years ago.
And he cried every day in prison because I hurt him, so, you know?
But it's like the guy that goes to Publix every day and steals, tweet, man, after a
couple of years, he's going to ask you, listen, you want to barbecue something yet?
Let me go to Publix and get some steaks.
That's what he does for a living.
He's steaks.
He's still shit.
That's what I did.
So to me was normal.
Yeah.
You have become, you had become numb to it by that point.
Listen, I remember I had an employee.
She called me one day.
Oh my God.
They're asking me to fill out these forms.
And I said, have you ever lied in your life?
She said, yeah.
I said, well, I want you to lie like you have never lied before.
And she's like, for real, I said, yes.
That property, that condo is 100% occupied and it was like 40% occupied.
She's like, but what's going to happen when they find out?
I said, I got it.
Don't worry about it.
You just write it up.
So I developed this culture of like people trusting me.
Yeah.
Like, okay, he's got it.
How do you sleep at night?
Well, I'll tell you what, it worked.
Just like you.
You know what?
You know what happened?
It worked against me.
I had a $2,000 post-apocalyptic.
When the feds went around and they asked all of them, so who told you to do this?
He did.
He said to trust him.
So yeah, needless to say, I got leadership role and, you know, I ended up getting 15 years.
After the feds are on you, how did it play?
How did that roll out?
So let's knock on my door on 2007.
Wait a second.
Wait a second.
So you're saying all the money that came for this complex was from Americans?
Well, I had some foreign investors, some really good foreign investors, because at this point,
there is a point when the apartments are not closing.
Yeah, the bank's not lending money anymore.
Banks are not lending money and I'm desperate.
These clients walk through the door and they are from my motherland, from the mothership.
And they come to me and they say, listen, can we buy cash?
And I said, I mean, like American cash, they're like, yeah.
How do you know these guys?
They're friends of yours.
So just from when you lived, I mean, you moved out of there when you were 16.
Yeah.
They actually came, referred from a salesperson.
And the salesperson said, listen, I don't know how to deal with these guys.
You want to talk to them?
And I said, yeah.
So I talked to them and I said, listen, yeah, you can buy cash.
They said, OK, we want, give us about, you know, two apartments for this guy and two
apartments for this guy and two apartments for this guy.
And I'm like, and you're going to close cash?
And they're like, yeah, I said, perfect, fantastic.
So these guys are putting money into this property and his friend is buying two
and his other friend is buying two and it's all cash money, all from Venezuela.
I'm sitting there going, no problem.
And you're going to lease out the properties or?
And they're going to make tons of money.
And guess what?
The property is going to go up in value.
You hold on to this baby.
The property is going to go up in value.
OK.
So the property starts going down in value and that's a whole different story.
And I'll get into that.
And these guys that are buying cash are calling me over and going, all right,
man, we're ready to, you know, to pull out, we're ready to get the money out.
And I'm like, well, you know, we may have a problem.
What? Yeah. I said, well, I don't know if you heard the news, but the market
crashed, bro, the money is gone.
And they were like, what do you mean, God?
I said, well, like, remember that 200,000 dollar apartment?
It's about 40 grand right now.
So if you want to sell it, I can get you a buyer for $40,000,
but you guys are not going to be happy.
So they that's when I started finding out that these guys worked
for the Venezuelan government.
And they were like, well, this is what's going to happen.
If we don't get our money back, we're going to kill you and we're going
to kill your family.
And we have a lot of people that you also scammed and they want us to kill you
anyways. So it's listen, it's no problem.
And we are the government.
And I remember one of the guys said to me once, they said,
do you know what a red flag on the Interpol is?
And I'm like, no, he goes, well, it's when the Interpol is looking for you
and we can make that happen.
And I was like, oh, well, I guess it sucks to be me then.
I had one of those.
So I know what it was.
Well, I later ended up getting in the indictment of the director of Interpol.
So they could have made that happen.
You know, so.
So I have this issue and then I have the feds knocking on my door
and they come to me and they say, listen, we want you
to come down to Fort Lauderdale and talk to us.
I go down there.
I hire an attorney and he says, let's go.
Let's see what they have.
So I sit down and there is like the prosecutor is right there
and two agents are sitting there and they say, well, we're going to make this very simple.
They show me all my deals and they said, what do you know about this?
And I said, what do you mean?
And I said, what do you know about these transactions?
They said, and I said, I don't know the buyers.
I don't mean people bought apartments.
I don't know what you want.
The prosecutor looked at me and said, that's your answer.
I said, yeah.
And he said, OK, I'm going to see you again.
I gave you a chance and he walked away.
And my attorney looked at me and said, they don't have anything on you, bro.
And I said, so we're good.
He's like, we're good.
Perfect. I pay the guy.
He walked away. I walked away.
That was 2007.
Four and a half years later, I got arrested in New York.
The market crashed.
These guys want to kill me.
It's a story that we're going to go in a second because it blows up.
And I'm like, this and I can't do this anymore.
I need to hide. I need to hide from the Venezuelans
and I need to hide from the Americans and I need to hide from everybody.
I need to go to the only place that I can hide.
And that place is called New York City.
Why New York City?
Dude, because you in New York, you don't have a car.
Nobody asked for your driver license.
You don't have a phone. I don't have anything at my apartment.
Wasn't somebody else's name.
So I'm living the life in New York.
Nobody knows me.
I had a friend of mine after your podcast.
She called me. She's like, did you do all those bad things?
And I said, well, some.
Yeah. And she goes, so who's the one that we met in New York?
I said, listen, the one that you met in New York was the New York one.
Yeah. And that's the beauty of New York.
You can go there and be anybody you want.
You know, a rock star, an artist, anybody.
So chronologically, before you got arrested.
Yeah. Oh, OK.
All right. Change the change of battery.
Sorry, we got that this camera.
We have to change the batteries every like 30 minutes.
Oh, really?
Chronologically, you just jumped four years.
Well, nothing happened in those fucking four years.
Can we tell you that you went back to Venezuela?
But I got to get back to Venezuela when I get to that story in prison.
When they start asking me, what did you do?
You ever thought chronologically, chronologically during OK?
Yeah, don't do it, bro.
That's what confuses. Oh, OK.
Is you're like that when this came up.
But that's not what chronologically in that's not when you got it.
Got it. Right.
So, you know, because otherwise you confuse people, I don't understand.
Because so he was arrested and then they let him out.
And he went to people are stupid.
So you have to go step by step by step.
All right. So, Matt, what were you saying?
Chronologically, what I'm saying?
He just jumped four years.
But chronologically, he just he's like, yeah.
So he was going to say when he went to New York.
Yeah, yeah. Jumping in New York.
You're jumping ahead.
The question that a lot of people have is why did you?
Why were you running away from the Venezuelans?
Right. Well, from.
Well, they were threatening to kill you.
Yeah, but they got really aggressive
because they started telling me, listen,
we know where your family lives in Venezuela
and all my family lives down there.
And they said, we're going to kill them.
We're going to kill them all.
Well, how close were you to one?
Your family.
Well, there are some people that I like, but.
I mean, I mean, they weren't really a lot of money.
Like I can I can get another cousin.
Well, you know what's crazy after I did my time?
All my family is like, yeah, I mean, he ruined our lives.
Now we kind of go anywhere.
And I'm like, first of all, you weren't going anywhere anyways.
And second of all, nobody went after you.
They were after me, you know?
So during that time, I have these guys calling me and calling me.
And listen, we need to we need the money.
We need the money.
So at one point they go, you need to come to Venezuela
and face us, bro.
You need to come here.
We want to see you.
We want to look at you in the eye and you have to tell us
that you lost your money.
And I'm like, I got to do this.
So I'm dating a girl at that time and I tell her, listen,
I'm going to go to Venezuela.
And I'm going to cut this is about 2000.
I want to say like 2008.
I'm going to go there.
And I'm going to call you as soon as I land.
If I don't call you, they kill me.
All right, she's all right.
So I show up in Venezuela and I have a couple of guys
from the military.
They used to escort me out of the plane.
Like they will open the plane and two military guys will come in
and go to the air attend like the flight attendant like.
And I'll be sitting there and they'll be like,
hey, one sentence, can you please come to up?
They were ready for you.
So they will come in and they will escort me out.
And I kept telling them, don't do that.
I can't go on and on because, you know,
we don't want you to go through customs and we want to make sure,
you know, I'm like, dude, I don't come with anything.
So I go there.
The guys looked at me.
They said, man, you're in deep shit.
You need to give us our money.
And we're going to hold you here until we get the money.
I said, dude, if you hold me here,
I cannot get you your money.
I need to be in the States.
That's where I make the money.
They said, well, you're going to have to figure out.
You're going to have to call from here.
You're going to have to figure out,
but we're not letting you out.
So they locked me in a hotel room in Caracas
and they have these guys watching me and they're partying
and they're calling these sloppy hookers
that are going to their room and they're getting wasted
and drinking and I'm like, oh, my God, man, I can't do this stuff.
Who are the guys, military or I don't know.
Well, I don't want to say military
because in the United States, you say military
and it's the guy with a uniform and shape.
In Venezuela, when you say military,
it's the guy with a big belly
and he hasn't fired a gun in like 10 years.
So they could have been military.
They could have been farmers.
Right.
And so they're there and they're with these horrible hookers
and they're like, hey, listen, you want to come here?
I'm like, no, no, no, I'm good.
Thank you, man.
So I'm trying to figure out, man, what to do, what to do.
So I'm talking to the big guys the following day
because they're doing this every night
and I'm trying to tell them, listen,
the only way that I can recover your money
is if you give me more money
because it takes money to make money.
So what I got to do is I have to buy all these apartments
that are now 40,000 and we're going to hold them
until they go up again.
And then we're kind of like evening out your losses.
Kind of like what people do right now with Bitcoin,
you know, just keep buying.
As it's going down, you just keep buying.
Buy the dip.
Yeah.
So I said, man, this is what we're going to do.
We're going to buy a bunch of those apartments at 40,000.
And then, listen, I sold them to you at 300,000.
I can sell them again at 300,000.
Man, you'll make a bunch of money.
They go, well, you know, we'll think about it.
Man, I see that things are not happening.
So I called this girl, Michelle,
one day that these guys are drunk,
the guys that are watching over me.
And I said, babe, you need to get me on a plane.
I need to get the fuck out of here.
These guys are going to kill me.
They're not buying this whole,
it takes money to make money thing.
I got to get out of here.
So get me on the first plane out of here.
I'm going to try to, you know, get my passport
and I'm going to get out of this room.
So I pick up my passport, I get out of the room,
I go to the lobby and I'm like running.
I'm telling the guy in the lobby,
get me a cap to the airport, get me a cap to the airport.
She buys a first class ticket for like $1,500,
one way from Caracas to Miami.
She tells me, listen, as soon as you get there,
there's, you go to the counter,
give them your name, they're waiting for you.
I said, well, I'm going to call you when we're taking off.
If I don't call you, they cut up to me and they kill me.
So I get on the plane, I land in Miami.
They start calling me, man, what the fuck?
I'm like, listen, I need to be in the United States.
I cannot recover your money, guys.
I need your, listen, I need to work it here.
Okay, well, this is what we're going to do.
We're going to give you the money,
but we need you to do some things for us.
I said, all right, what's it going to be?
We need you to buy some cars
and we need you to buy some diapers
and some converse shoes and a couple of cell phones
and an Xbox and I'm like, all right.
He's like, yeah, just give us a number.
And I'm like, well, you know, the two cars and the Xbox
and the diapers and the stuff, I don't know, man, 120,000.
All right, so they will wire me this money
and I will do all these things, but it gets annoying.
I mean, there was a point that these guys will come
and say like, hey, listen, we need 2,000 pairs
of Levi's jeans and I'll be like, dude,
I don't have time for that shit, bro.
I'm trying to like make a living here.
Yeah, so like you're like,
they have you grocery shopping for them?
Yeah, and they'll be like, well,
if you don't give us the Levi's jeans,
we're going to kill your family.
Jesus Christ, bro, are you kidding me?
So this keeps going on and on and on.
Then at one point I said, listen, I can't do this anymore.
I can't do this anymore, bro.
I mean, I keep losing your money
and I cannot continue asking you for money
because this hole is getting a little too deep.
And they send me a video.
So they're like, okay, listen, you don't want to work with us.
You don't want to do what we tell you to do.
You'll see.
So they send me this video and the subject says,
this is what's going to happen to you.
And I opened the video.
I only watched like, probably like 10 seconds of the video
because it's like, listen,
I think you should have it here in concrete.
I'll find it.
You guys will play it.
Is it online?
I got it.
I could find it somewhere.
Is it on YouTube?
Yeah, I doubt, I doubt, maybe on Matt's actual crime.
Listen to what the video is.
So they go to this prison and they pay these inmates
to make a circle and grab one of the inmates
and take turns raping him.
And a guy is filming this on a phone.
And then they're yelling like,
oh, this is what's going to happen to you.
And they're raping him one after the other
one after the other.
Well, of course, you know, I mean,
it's not something that you grab popcorn.
You're like, let me see how this shit ends.
I watched like 10 seconds and I'm like, oh my God.
Fuck.
I can see this shit, you know.
That was one of the videos.
Then they sent me another video like two months later
of a guy that is just driving on a motorcycle.
He goes into a barber shop and goes to a guy
just shots him.
And then they're like, this is what's going to happen
to you.
And I'm like, dude, you got to stop killing people
just to send me a message, you know?
I mean, you can just tell me I'm going to kill you
and it's pretty scary.
What happened to the animate?
Did the animate get killed too?
Well, I never watched the whole thing,
but the effects did.
And at some point I'm talking to the effects
and they tell me, listen, we're going to show you the video.
You need to identify it.
I said, I only seen like 10 seconds of the video.
They said, okay, if you see the first 10 seconds,
would you recognize it?
I said, I think I cannot miss it.
So they showed me the first 10 seconds
and sure enough, it's a circle and they're hitting,
and I'm like, yeah, that's a video.
So there is three agents there and the prosecutor.
And I said, you guys watch that video?
And the prosecutor goes, no, no, no, no.
And then I asked the agents, did you guys watch it?
And one of the agents goes, oh, I watched.
And I said, how does it end?
They said, well, it's not love story.
I mean, are there credits like these movies
dedicated to in the memory of, yeah.
Well, I guess they kill this guy
and they chop him into pieces.
Well, who I want to meet is the guy that is on the phone,
like, move to the side, all right, all right,
there you go, keep going.
So they're filming this thing.
Venezuela has one of the prisons,
a prison in Venezuela that's the most violent prison
like in the world.
It's got the most murders.
It's like every day there's a murder.
So of course, I'm sitting here,
I cannot tell my family this stuff.
I'm stressing the fuck out.
That's when I go, I said, I'm going to New York.
I gotta disappear, I gotta go.
So I pack my stuff and I go to New York
and I become an art salesman.
And I start selling photographs
for a photographer called Peter Leek.
I don't know if you guys heard him.
Yeah, I don't know, it sounds familiar.
Yeah, he sells, he's the mad cox of photography.
Oh yeah.
And the guy's brilliant, brilliant.
And I start making a bunch of money
and I start living a good life in New York
and real estate is behind me.
But you're always on the run.
And when you're on the run, man,
you know, you know they're gonna come for you.
So 2012 comes around, it's almost five years.
And I'm thinking, in six more months,
these guys cannot get me.
Because back on those days,
it was five years of statute of limitations.
Now they increased it to 10 years.
And I said, they cannot get me.
And sure enough, April 30th,
I was dating this girl.
We had a fight on April 29th on Sunday.
And I called her on Monday and I said,
man, I'm gonna take the day off.
Why don't you come to my house, babe?
And we get some sushi and, you know,
we make out, we do our thing.
All right, all right.
Man, and I'm like planning everything.
I have like the tables ready.
I make my bed, you know, I wash the sheets.
I'm like ready.
And she comes in, looks beautiful.
She knocks the door, I kiss her.
I'm like, listen, I got some sushi coming.
So she sits on the couch and door, you know,
I hear knocking the door.
I open, there is the delivery guy, you know,
gives me the sushi, I pay him, he leaves.
And then I hear, and I'm like,
man, who's banging the door like that?
So I tell my girlfriend, listen,
what's wrong with this Chinese guy?
I think I gave him a tip.
I said, check this out.
I opened the door, what?
Ready to get on this guy.
And I get two hands, pull me like this
and pull me out of the apartment.
And there is like a line of cops up the stair,
a line of cops down the stairs.
And they're all like pointing go and said me
and El Chapo Guzman, you know?
And there's this guy with a picture of me and he goes,
you're Juan Sanchez, right?
And I said, yeah.
He goes, you're getting extradited to Florida.
We have a warrant for your arrest.
And then the agent that had interviewed me
four and a half years before comes around
and he goes, you thought I wasn't gonna get you, right?
And I said, no, no, I knew you would.
The guy that walked out of the room?
Yeah.
And I said, all right, all right.
So they sat me in, I told him to let her go.
And then the guy said, you have drugs?
And I said, no, you have guns?
And I said, no.
He said, all right, let's go.
So they took me to Brooklyn Detention Center.
And that's how my journey started.
Jesus Christ.
I know, but I don't know if they did this to you,
but I had this agent sitting next to me as we're driving
and the guy's telling me like,
we're gonna leave you 30 years.
You're never gonna see the light.
We're gonna fuck you over.
Your life is, and I'm sitting there going,
really man, I mean.
How old were you at that point?
I was 38.
38.
I was 38.
So, you know, prison is a different world.
And I think everybody goes through the same thing.
It's just nobody has the balls to say it.
But I always, like when the new people came to prison,
I always told them, you just arrived?
Yeah, okay.
Your first year is your suicidal year.
Every day you wake up trying to figure out
how you're gonna kill yourself.
And you like plan it out.
And you are like, okay, let me see.
I can always take the blades and you have that shit
doesn't work because I've seen these guys do it.
By the way, if you slice your wrist and you don't die,
they take 54 days of good time.
So you have to do more time.
Self-needolation shot.
You have to do more time.
It's like you're trying to kill yourself, yeah.
And you weren't successful?
No, all right, now you gotta do more time.
So I was like, okay, I could hang myself,
but that's like a slow death.
Then I learned through the inmates that it's not,
it's like they got it down packed.
And I was like, well, maybe I can take some pills.
And that's the one year where you still think
your girl's gonna wait for you
and everybody's gonna wait for you
and you're calling her and you're like,
you know, even, I don't know who you interview here,
but the toughest gangsters, killers, hardcore killers.
Matt will tell you on the phone,
I can do this without you.
Then they'll hang up and says, fucking bitch, man.
Or worse, on Saturday morning, they're calling,
why didn't you answer the phone last night?
The fuck were you doing?
Well, yeah, that's the way to keep her.
By the way, what is the show that they play
on Saturday mornings?
Oh, the infomercial?
No, cheaters.
Oh, cheaters.
Cheaters, cheaters.
You go to the TV room, everybody's watching cheaters.
Show is over, everybody goes to the phone.
Yeah.
Oh my God, that's terrible, sad.
I know, it's horrendous.
So you go through your suicidal year
and then whoever's gonna leave you's gonna leave you,
whoever's gonna stay is gonna stay.
And that's kind of how I weed it out.
Actually, the family that I was protecting,
most of them left.
I should have told these guys,
you know what, kill them, fuck them.
Yeah.
Let me get a life insurance policy first.
They're not gonna be there for me, so fuck them.
I'll give you their address.
But I got, so I get to Florida.
And I...
How long did it take for you to get to Florida?
Took me about three months.
They do what's called diesel therapy.
So they kind of drive you around in the prisons.
You know, they took me to Oklahoma, Atlanta, Tallahassee,
and I finally made it to Miami.
And I get to Miami and my family's like,
hey, we got your attorney.
And I said, all right, so I meet the attorney.
And dude, if you think I have an accent,
my attorney was like Ricky Ricardo.
He's like, welcome, I'm your attorney,
and I'm going to, and I'm like, what the fuck?
So I call my family and I'm like,
dude, why did you guys hire this attorney?
He goes, well, he speaks Spanish.
I said, yeah, but I speak English.
Yeah, but some of us don't.
So we want to know what the attorney's saying.
I said, you hired him for you.
I said, dude, I think I want the judge
to know what the attorney's saying.
You know?
Yeah, exactly.
So that's my attorney and he will come see me
every now and then and he'll be like,
hey, Juan, no te preocupe, no te preocupe,
don't worry, don't worry, all good.
And I will say like, how much time am I looking at?
Five years.
I was like, five years, five years.
I was like, all right, I can't do five.
Five is no problem.
Yeah, five years, five years.
He comes to me, he goes, all right,
the effects give you this, 18 years.
I said, dude, what the fuck?
What happened with the five years?
He goes, he's not over.
He's not over.
We need you to sign this as a sign of good faith.
And I said, I didn't know that.
Fucking cocksucker.
And I said, why would I sign this as a sign of good faith?
Because it shows that you are, you know,
that you're willing to work with them.
I said, I took the pen, man, and I remember I was crying
and I said, listen, man, I'm signing my life.
I have two kids, probably older than you two.
That attorney don't care.
And I said, man, I'm signing my life away.
So I signed my 18 years.
Sure enough, I go to my 18 years, bro.
18 years, like that song.
And I get sentenced 15 years.
Oh, it's a bargain.
Yeah, so he's like, don't worry.
I have a defense for you.
I have a good argument for you.
I said, all right.
So we go in front of the judge and the prosecutor gets up
and he's like, listen, this guy's a piece of shit.
He ran away to New York and whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
And listen, he's just, we have to lock him up.
I said, well, my attorney's gonna get up
and he's gonna pull some kind of, you know,
the Chewbacca defense like South Park.
Yeah, yeah.
And he gets up and he goes,
my client is a good person.
He's a good father.
He's a good citizen.
We think 18 years is too much.
I said, dude, that's it?
He goes, yeah.
I said, the judge goes, do you wanna say something?
I'm like, shit, yeah?
So I got up and I start talking to him
and the judge said, man, listen,
I'm not gonna give you 18 years,
but I'm not gonna give you five years.
He said, I'm gonna give you 15 years, 180 months.
And my attorney goes,
we didn't do that bad.
I said, we didn't do that bad?
We?
We?
I said, dude, I'm gonna do 15 fucking years.
He goes, I'll come see you tomorrow.
Well, he never came to see me again.
So I go to my prison, you know, I go,
I go, my family pay him like $50,000.
And he was the money that I had left like,
in case of emergency, break the glass kind of thing
because the feds had taken everything, you know?
Oh, listen, it's a license to steal.
Horrendous.
It is a license, like being an attorney, license to steal.
You get people, they're most vulnerable,
they believe everything you say,
and they can blatantly just lie to you.
And they know once you sign that document, you're done.
They're gonna take you away
and you'll be filing paperwork,
but in the end, there's nothing you can do.
And I have your money
and I don't even have to answer your calls anymore.
It's horrible.
Do you ever think about what would have happened
if you wouldn't have signed that document?
Oh my God, I know what would have happened
if I wouldn't have signed that document.
I would have gotten like seven years.
I wouldn't have gotten five.
But it's not, listen, it's not over.
How would that have worked though?
It's not over.
Well, so I go to prison with my 15 years, you know?
Meets me.
Meets Matt Cox, the rep of the fraudsters.
The highlight of his entire, his entire bid.
Yeah, it was a long time, but I met Matt.
I have a friend of mine and, okay,
so his girlfriend claims that he has a men crush on me.
But I have a friend of mine who says
that I have a men crush on him.
So when I come here, she's like,
oh yeah, look at you, you're gonna dress top
because you're gonna go to Matt's.
He mad, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I'm like, listen, you know,
I have a lot of professional respect for Matt.
And she goes, dude, he's a fucking criminal
and so are you.
That's not a profession.
And I said, but among the profession.
It is.
She's an attorney too, by the way.
She's an attorney, by the way, yeah.
And I said, among the profession, there is levels, you know?
It's like the drug business, you know?
The guy that sells crack in the corner
is not the same as El Chapo, you know?
Matt is El Chapo of mortgage.
Wow.
The El Chapo of mortgage, I hope that catches on.
I want to see that in the comments.
That should be the title.
The title, El Chapo de mortgage.
Except we're gonna put it on you, bro.
Nice.
And that's how you get leadership role
in an indictment fellas.
Two points.
So I got a call, man, and then I get this.
One day somebody tells me, listen, you're packing out.
You're going to Miami.
And everybody's like, oh dude,
you're gonna get another indictment.
You're gonna get superseded more time.
And I'm like, shut up.
So I get down to Miami and they said, listen,
we have some people that are talking about you.
Can I say something first?
Yeah.
So I remember when we met and he said he had 15 years
and I was like, I was like, bro,
I mean, is there anything you can do about that?
Like, I mean, tell me you're cooperated.
Tell me you're working on that.
And he's like, no, I don't know.
I mean, you know, he's not really sure what to do.
He's like, I don't know.
And I'm going, you need to do something.
Like I'm saying, do the right thing.
You need to work on, like, no, my attorney,
your attorney sold you out.
Like I have, you know, prior to dealing with attorneys,
you hold them like really high regard.
After going through the feds and dealing with
four or five different attorneys that I've had,
bottom the barrel.
I have way more respect for drug dealers.
Oh my God.
Than I do attorneys.
There is no ethics.
Now, he also had a little issue with the fact
that I had 15 years.
Oh yeah.
39 million dollars.
I owe the federal government 33 and a half million dollars.
He got 26 years.
Like 6 million dollars.
That's not, there's no way that's right.
So I'm like, listen, dude, I got 39 million and I got half
your time.
You took off too.
I thought that people were like, well, you went on the run.
He was on the run.
He was on the run.
I went to New York.
That's on the run.
Oh, and I never left the South.
So I go down to Miami and they tell me, listen,
there's some Venezuelan people talking about you.
And I said.
In the prison?
Yeah.
Were they saying good things?
And I'm like, what do you mean?
And they're like, well, you know, apparently there is
a guy in here and he's saying that he invested a bunch
of money in the United States and it all ended in your account.
Uh-oh.
And I'm like, oh, shit.
And they're like, listen, you need to get an attorney.
And I'm thinking, I'm not calling Ricky Ricardo.
He's, I'm gonna get like a hundred years.
So fuck.
So I talked to my friend Keith and I'm like Keith, man.
I mean, he's like, dude, I did medical fraud
and I only got like four years.
And my attorney's like a badass guy.
I met him a couple of days ago.
Super cool guy.
His name is Paul Petruzzi.
I said, all right, give me his number.
So I called Paul and he shows up to the prison
and he goes, one sentence?
I said, yeah.
He says, I know who you are.
I said, because of my fraud case?
He goes, no, people are talking about you.
I said, really?
And he goes, yeah.
Do you know anybody in Venezuela?
I said, well, I got like family and friends.
He goes, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Hold on one second.
He takes me out.
He goes to the guard.
They bring out a guy
that I used to do business with in Venezuela
with this whole money thing.
And he goes, oh my God, you are here.
And I said, yeah, what are you doing here?
He goes, well, I got arrested.
And I said, for fraud?
And he goes, no, money laundering.
And I told him about you.
And I said about me.
I didn't order any money.
He goes, you didn't?
I said, no, he goes, but you did.
It all falls under money laundering.
It all falls on money laundering.
And I was like, oh my, really?
And he goes, yeah.
And you are the guy that knows where the money ended.
So you need to talk.
Oh, fuck.
So this guy tried to use you to get time off his sentence?
Of course.
Everybody.
It's fraud.
That's how the game works.
So I'm like, okay.
So I talked to the attorney, Paul, and Paul's like,
okay, man, listen, you know the guys.
They're looking for these guys.
You are the guy that can do this thing.
You got the emails.
You have everything.
I said, how much is it?
He goes, $45,000.
Paul wants $45,000 to represent him on a case
where he's going to be the main cooperator witness
to hope and the hope that he gets the sentence.
That I get a sentence with all right.
Everybody's all right.
People are already turning on each other left and right.
So it's like, if you try and stand strong,
like, well, I'm not going to.
Well, then you just do your fucking time.
Or more because these guys could set up something
where everything falls on me.
Oh yeah, he could get re-indicted.
Yeah.
So I'm sitting there going, okay, 45,000.
I said, fuck, bro.
Listen, man, I don't have the money.
And he goes, you don't?
I said, no, man.
He goes, all right, I'll see you in 15 years.
I'm like, listen, bro, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
I said, I'm a great salesperson, man.
I can sell the shit out of your service when I get out.
I'll pack your office.
He goes, yeah, no.
He goes, no, no, no, I need $45,000.
I said, dude, come on, bro, hook me up.
He goes, well, give me 10%.
Give me 10,000 and I'll get you started.
I said, all right, let me figure it out.
So I go upstairs and I tell Keith, bro,
your attorney wants 45,000.
He goes, okay, pay it.
He's worth it.
I said, I don't have it, bro.
I don't have the 10,000.
He goes, well, this is what you need to do.
You need to pray.
I said, okay, and I'm gonna pray
and then tomorrow morning,
the 10 grand are gonna be on my locker.
He goes, maybe, I don't know.
I said, all right, I mean,
give it a try.
What the fuck am I gonna do?
So I go to my cell and I start praying
and I'm like, man, I'm not gonna get the money,
but give me guidance, you know?
Man, and the next morning I go, I got it.
So I email my ex-sister-in-law and I go,
I need you to send me the list of all my Facebook friends.
She sends me the list and I start weeding them out.
Okay, this guy sucks, this guy sucks, this guy.
I scam this guy, I scam this guy, I scam this guy,
blah, blah, blah.
And I leave like, I don't know, 200 people.
And I post, I'm gonna send you those posts, so you have them.
Okay.
Are they online right now?
Yeah, they're on my Facebook page.
Can you pull up Facebook?
All right, go ahead.
And I posted something in March of 2013
and it says dear friends and family,
I know you haven't heard from me in a year,
but it's because I was indicted
and I just got a 15 year sentence.
And during this time, I have lost friends,
I have lost family, I lost all the money I have,
but I've been holding on to the only thing that I could.
And today I'm surrendering it to you,
which is my ego and my dignity.
I need to ask you for help.
My attorney is $45,000, I need to come up with $10,000.
I don't have it.
Listen, if you can help me with money,
I promise I'll pay you back.
If you can't, prayers are welcome.
You know, God love you, God bless you, whatever.
Do that shit when viral.
Like people are putting $20 here, $15.
I didn't know how crazy it went until actually
a couple of weeks ago that I'm reading my post
and I realized, first of all,
I kept a journal in prison and I didn't know
because I was posting stuff every week.
And second of all,
man, people were doing garage sales.
Like this weekend is gonna be a garage sale
for Juan's attorneys.
Wow. Yeah, and bake sales.
And so Paul comes into the jail and he gets me down one day
and he goes, listen, bro,
I don't know what the fuck you're doing,
but I cannot be getting checks for five and 10
and $15 into the office, man.
So people are mailing this guy checks.
So he had to open a PayPal account.
So people could PayPal him 15 bucks, 20 bucks.
And I paid 45 grand on attorney's fees.
Through Facebook, bro. Nice.
How long did that take?
Couple months, not a lot.
That's crazy.
And I had guys like organizing it and they had like,
we reached the first goal, which is $10,000.
Now we gotta go for the other 10.
And I had Mindy, my ex-sister-in-law,
organizing stuff.
And I had my friend, Mario,
who's like my brother in Spanish,
like listen, if you're a Spanish donor, talk to Mario.
If you're an American donor, talk to Mindy.
And I had this whole thing set up
and they paid my attorney, man.
So social media works.
That's awesome.
And back on those days, there was no Kickstarter
or it was like GoFundMe or whatever.
GoFundMe, it was old school.
So they pay Paul and Paul starts working on it.
And sure enough, the video comes up again.
And I said, listen, Paul, they showed me this video.
They sent me this video.
And he goes, is it on your email?
I said, yeah.
Which video?
The guy getting chopped up and...
In prison, yeah.
Yeah, so now the feds are coming to see him.
Now the feds, correct.
Right, now they're coming to interview him.
Paul tells me, I found the guy
that is prosecuting these Venezuelans.
And he wants to talk to you.
And I said, okay, he goes, you are a very smart guy.
I'm not gonna be there because I don't need to be there
because you can't talk your way around this thing.
I said, all right, that's fine.
He goes, but these are very important people.
So the week later, they get me downstairs.
I walk into a room and there is a bunch of people in suits.
And one of the guys goes, whatever, whatever, DA.
I'm like, nice meeting you.
Then somebody else goes, whatever, whatever, FBI.
I said, nice meeting you.
And then whatever, whatever, NSA.
I said, nice meeting you.
Or whatever, whatever, HSI, nice meeting you.
And I said, my name is Juan Sanchez, F-B-O-P.
And they are like, oh my God, this guy is so funny.
So the prosecutor comes in and he goes,
you know what this guy said?
He said, he's Juan Sanchez, F-B-O-P.
And they are like, oh my God.
So we're talking and the guy says,
listen, do you have anything, any paper trail these guys?
And I said, yeah, give me my laptop, give me my cell phone.
And I'll get you everything you need.
They gave me my cell phone, man.
Because I was arrested, these guys couldn't get a hold of me
for like three months until the service.
They got disconnected.
I had about 580 messages.
We're gonna kill you.
You're gonna die motherfucker.
And I'm telling the prosecutor,
just listen to the messages, bro.
I don't have to give you anything else.
And he's like, dude, this is really bad.
He says, listen, are you willing to cooperate?
Because if you cooperate, they are going to kill you.
So well, let me call my kids.
So I call my kids and I said, listen kids,
this is where I'm at.
Can we do this?
Can we not do this?
Should I do this?
Should I not do this?
They said that we want you home.
We want you home.
So he said, if you cooperate,
the Venezuelans are gonna kill you.
Did he mean they're gonna kill you
while you're in prison or once you get out?
Well, it happened while I was in prison.
And I'll tell you that my last six months,
I spent on solitary confinement,
which I don't think Matt knows this.
Yeah, you've been mentioned in the last six months,
but it was-
So, they put him in a nice facility.
Okay, well, it's filled with Venezuelans,
with people from South America.
Look, he'll explain,
but basically they were,
the government was trying to say, let's send them back.
You send me back.
I cooperated against these guys.
They'll kill me.
Send them back.
I mean, I had an interview with ICE and they were like,
but are they gonna kill you?
Anywhere in Venezuela?
Is there anywhere that you feel safe in Venezuela?
I'm like, dude, Venezuela is a country about this big.
Yeah, it's like then,
are they gonna kill you in Tampa, anywhere?
Do you feel safe anywhere in Tampa?
How about by the river?
Dude, they're gonna kill me, man, period.
Especially because one of the guys,
the main guy on the investigation,
the prosecutor goes, okay, this is great.
You are great, you are a great witness.
You are not a drug guy.
You never dealt with drugs.
You didn't know you were laundering money.
So you are really like a victim of these guys
that are extorting you, they're trying to kill you.
I mean, this is phenomenal.
But we cannot do anything with this thing
because there is no extradition from Venezuela.
So we can indict them,
but they're gonna stay there and that's it.
And I said, man, that sucks.
And then the prosecutor goes, unless,
you have a way to get him out.
Get him out of Venezuela.
Yeah, I said, well, I said, I have some alternatives.
He said, okay, give it to us.
I said, well, my first choice will be let me out
and let me work outside, use the phones.
They're like, no, okay, next.
Use yourself as bait, kind of.
Yeah, but I would have gone to the Bahamas and that's it.
And they're like, no, no, no, that's not gonna happen.
And I said, well, there is this one guy
that applied for a visa to come to the United States
and you guys denied the visa.
You told him, no, you cannot come to the United States
because you are a PNG, persona non grata.
I said, I guarantee you, if you call that guy
and you tell him that it was a mistake,
he'll be here on the next flight, the prosecutor goes.
Because he wanted to come here with his family.
He had been asking you to help get him here, right?
He's telling me like, man, man, they denied my visa,
help me out or I'm gonna kill you.
That's why he knows.
So I'm like, so the prosecutor goes,
let me see if we can do that.
And that was the end of that meeting.
We never met again.
I didn't know what happened.
All right, so I go back to my prison, once go by
and I'm telling my attorney, dude, what the fuck?
We had a meeting with these guys.
I feel like the girl that you took to prom,
you fuck me, no more calls.
The prosecutor is like, bro,
I'm sorry, my attorney is like, listen,
if these guys don't leave Venezuela,
there's nothing they're gonna give you, bro.
We need these guys here.
All right, man, one day they take me downstairs
to go to medical.
And I'm handcuffed and I'm standing in line
and there is guard reading names, Smith, Jones, whatever.
And she says, this guy last name, the Venezuelan politician.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
So I look around and I see this guy walks by me.
He doesn't recognize me.
And I start going like, oh my God, oh my God, oh my God.
So the guard's like, dude, what's wrong with you?
You gotta pee?
And I'm like, no, I don't gotta pee.
I gotta get the fuck out of here.
I gotta go upstairs.
I go upstairs, I call my attorney.
I tell him, do you have any news for me?
He goes, no.
I said, well, I got news for you.
He goes, what?
He goes, I go, they arrested this guy.
He goes, well, I need you to hang up the phone
and call me back in half an hour.
I hang up the phone, I call him in half an hour
and he goes, pack your shit.
You're going back to Coleman.
So I pack my stuff and I meet Matt again.
Matt's like, what happened, dude?
I said, man.
Oh my God.
I talked and so I'm telling the story
and the whole thing and a couple of days later,
I'm on the Miami Herald.
Boom.
Front page.
And there's this guy saying,
they lured me into the United States.
They told me I was gonna come for a tourism
and I had my family with Disney shirts on.
So this guy, they call him
and they told him your visa is approved.
It was a mistake.
He went home.
He told his wife and his kids, get dressed.
We're going to Disney.
Holy shit.
They fly in Disney shirts, hats, the whole thing.
Here's the whole shebang.
Get off the plane.
You're under arrest.
Classic.
The guy flips, talks a lot.
He did 36 months in prison.
Smart guy.
And you understand that the money that they were laundering
that they were sending him to buy all the properties
was cartel money from the Sinaloa cartel.
They were laundering,
the Venezuelan government was laundering drug money
through him that of course he lost.
But regardless, that's all money laundering.
All these things are calling off.
But you didn't know that.
Right, right, obviously.
And that's the problem.
You're buying Levi's and fucking apartment buildings.
I go to Venezuela one day
and these guys like this and you need a car to drive around.
And I'm like, well, I'll take one.
He goes, yeah, drive this car around.
So I'm driving the car around.
I'm in Colman, this Colombian drug lord comes in
and he goes, oh, you are Juan.
And I say, yeah, he goes, dude,
remember that million dollar that went through your account?
He goes, that was my money.
I said, oh, shit.
I said, yeah, you know, remember when they kidnapped you?
That was my money.
I said, oh, all right.
You know, I mean, these are brought in hard feelings,
you know?
Shut up.
He's like, yeah, shit happens, don't worry about it.
So I'm talking to him
and I said, man, I remember I went to Venezuela
and they gave me this car to drive.
He goes, that was my fucking car.
And I said, dude, I was driving your car?
He goes, yeah.
I said, man, that's fucked up.
They would have thought that I was him.
They could have killed me.
So it was reckless.
It was a disaster.
And then I will tell Matt all the time, like, hey, listen,
that's my kidnapper right there.
Let me go say hi to him.
Oh, no.
He hired the guys to hold him
until he came up with the money that he couldn't come up with.
Yeah, he couldn't come up with it.
That's just stupidity.
It's gone.
You know, the money's gone.
So I go back to Coleman and then one day they pack me up
and they send me to a penitentiary, USB Thompson,
in Thompson, Illinois.
I go there, I do 10 months in a pen.
Now it's 2018 and my attorney calls me.
Six years later, he goes,
the government is ready to give you a sentence reduction.
Six years.
You are coming back to Miami.
So I'm like, fuck, I'll go to my attorney and say,
listen, bro, he's like, we're gonna ask for time serve.
Perfect.
I call my kids, girls, you need to be in the courthouse.
June 15th, take clothes.
I wanna fucking Big Mac.
I'm walking out.
My girls go down there.
My friends are down there.
I go to the court.
Man, there is my attorney.
There is the prosecutor from the Venezuelan case
who is now retired.
There is my prosecutor who hates me
because I destroy the value of his real estate property
and the judge.
And the prosecutor gets up and he's like,
your honor, Mr. Sanchez cooperated
and he was a key player for this thing, right?
But he's a piece of shit and he shouldn't get anything
because we're not gonna set an example of people like that.
He didn't only scam the government
and he didn't only scam a bunch of people,
but now we find out that he loaned their money
and we're gonna reward him for this shit.
He should have gotten more time and I'm sitting there going.
And he's a womanizer and he fucked every woman
that he ever worked with
and he will hire these women just to fuck them.
And my kids are sitting there like.
And I'm sitting there going and my attorney's like.
So then this other prosecutor gets up and he's like,
listen, I don't know.
I don't know if you fuck women or he didn't fuck women.
All I know is that this guy opened the largest drug
investigation in the Western hemisphere.
With the paperwork that he'll provide.
That's all we know.
Whether he fuck women, the other women,
that's beyond our, you know,
but we do recommend that he gets a reduction.
So my attorney get up and spoke
and then the judge looked at me and he said,
you know what, you're gonna do two more years.
So my girls broke down crying.
I was super pissed and I ended up going back to Miami.
And then from there, they decided to put me
in an all immigrants prison.
So I walk in and it's all Venezuelans and Mexicans
and I'm like, only shit.
And I'm calling my kids and they're like,
dad, are you safe?
I'm like, yeah, they don't know who I am.
They don't know who I am.
So everybody kept asking me like, why are you here?
I'm like, listen, I grew up here.
I never lived in Venezuela.
I don't know anybody.
So I'm hiding the shahad until eventually somebody
walked in and said, you know who that guy is?
That's the guy that opened the investigation
of the Venezuelan government.
And that's the guy.
So all the Venezuelans on the compound get together.
And one day I'm walking out of the library
doing paperwork because I was doing legal paperwork
for everybody.
Oh, you were doing the same.
So that's the, oh my gosh.
Oh my gosh.
The mad cocks move.
Yeah, there's the hustles, you know.
When you go to prison, you can either suck dick for money,
clean rooms for money and do legal paperwork for money.
You know, if I didn't know how to do legal paperwork,
I guess I would have cleaned and then sucked dick.
But I went for the legal stuff.
So, dude, I walked in, I see all the Venezuelans waiting
for me and I'm like, all right, you know, like,
I guess we're gonna have a little meeting.
Yeah.
And as soon as they're coming to me.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah, kumbaya.
The guards walk in and they're like, Sanchez, right?
Yeah, we packed your shed.
You're going to the shoe.
I said, why?
They said, investigation.
And I spent from January to June, six months in solitary
because of these fuckers.
But they had already passed the word out
that I was the guy that started the investigation
and somebody Googled me and they found me.
And yeah, it became a bit of a disaster.
So was the shoe, you were by yourself?
Most of the time I was by myself.
Because Max said that you were in there
with multiple people, right?
You can't like, they'll have bunk beds.
You can be by yourself.
But after a certain period of time that they'll lock on,
well, in Coleman, they'd knock on, they'd be like,
hey, you want to sell it?
And you'd be like, yeah, get somebody in here.
Like it's been, it's been two weeks.
And remember, they didn't know who the guy
was going to be with me.
So they're like, okay, we bring a guy to his cell.
He may kill him, he may stab him,
he may be somebody that is after him.
You know what I mean?
Let's keep him by himself.
So I was by myself for six months,
which kind of does a number on your psyche
when you get out, you know?
I'm still a little edgy on some things.
And then I finished in June and ICE came and said,
okay, now you're going to immigration.
So I've done all this time.
I've done six months in the shoe.
ICE picks me up.
Now I'm no longer an inmate.
I'm a detainee.
Which means you cannot handcuff me in the back.
You have to handcuff me in the front.
You cannot strip-search me.
I don't have good time to lose.
So I walk into this new detention center
and I go to the garden.
What's the story here?
He goes, pick any cell where you want to live.
I said, what a second?
I get to choose where I want to live?
He goes, yeah.
I said, how about disciplinary sanctions?
He goes, I mean, you can lose your phone
but because of COVID, which by the way,
I didn't know there was COVID until I got out of the shoe.
This was June already, people were dying.
And because of COVID, we cannot take your phone privileges.
I said, so I can do whatever the fuck I want
and you guys cannot do anything to me.
And they were like, no.
I said, perfect, I love it.
So my six months of the shoe,
I made it up on those six months of ICE,
insulting people, I burned the microwaves,
I short-circuited all the door logs.
I mean, it was insane.
And then the warden will come to me and say,
listen Sanchez, what do you want?
I want chicken.
We want chicken or I'm gonna, they were like, dude,
we'll get you chicken.
So I will get like chicken on Wednesday instead of Thursday
and all these Hispanics were like, you're the hero.
We know what Telemundo, I got Telemundo.
Don't worry guys.
So I will start some kind of riots for Telemundo.
I was insane.
I was out of control.
And December 18th, I used to fight with all the guards.
And you become very, which kind of sucks to say it,
but you become very racial when you're in immigration
because you have these guards that look at you
like you're an immigrant and you should be kicked out.
You know, and you're the immigrant going,
listen man, you are a racist piece of shit.
So the terms of endearment between me and the guards
were not exactly politically correct.
All right.
On either way, you know.
So I'm yelling on a guard on the red yard
and I'm like, man, you motherfucker,
why do you think I'm a fucking Mexican?
I'm not a Mexican.
I speak English.
I grew up here.
Cause the guards will insult people in English
thinking they didn't understand.
Oh really?
Yeah.
And then one of the detainees comes to me and goes,
hey, listen, ICE is looking for you outside.
And I go to the detainee and say, listen, tell that motherfucker
if he wants to talk to me, he has to come here.
He goes in.
He comes right back out.
He says he wants to talk to you.
I said, well, I'm here.
All right.
He goes back in.
He comes back out.
He says you have two minutes, bro,
to talk to him or he's leaving.
I said to the guard, man, don't go anywhere
because I'm not done with you.
I go in there and the guy from ICE looks at me and goes,
oh shit, it's you?
And I said, yeah.
He goes, man.
He said, here, boom, you're getting released.
I said, man, shut the fuck up.
He goes, read it.
You're the log guy, read it.
I read it.
I go, man, I'm getting released.
He goes, yeah, you're getting released.
I don't know when.
I said, bro, if you're pulling my leg,
you know I'm fucking crazy.
I'm gonna burn this shit down.
No, no, no, don't worry about it.
He goes, believe me, I want you out.
We all want you out.
I'll try to get you out today.
I sign my papers.
One day it goes by, another day it goes by,
it's December 22nd.
Man, I'm still in there.
I start, when you're an inmate,
I don't know if you ever did this in a cell,
when you're an inmate, you bang on the doors,
you don't use your hands.
You ball kick, bang, bang, bang, bang.
Back of your leg.
So yeah, the back of your leg because that makes,
it's loud, bro.
So I start banging, bang, bang, bang, bang.
The guy from ICE comes, dude, what the fuck is your problem?
And I said, man, you told me I was leaving,
it's December 22nd.
Why am I still here?
He goes, man, for security reasons,
I cannot tell you when you're leaving.
But I'm gonna give you my opinion.
Just to give you my back.
My opinion is, tomorrow by 10 a.m.
I said, all right.
He goes, all right.
He leaves.
Man, I said, I'm leaving tomorrow.
So I didn't tell my daughters.
I just showed up at their house.
I had a friend pick me up.
I walked out with my great shirt, my great sweats,
and my, you know, I don't know.
What do you call those?
You have the video.
Yeah.
He can give you the video.
Really?
Those daughters go to get there.
I show up at my daughter's house, December 23rd, man.
After eight and a half years.
And they went bonkers, yeah.
That's incredible.
And then I started this second phase of the journey,
which is I don't have a work permit,
I don't have a driver license,
but I volunteer in a law firm
because I used to do so much legal paperwork.
This attorney told me, listen,
why don't you come work for me?
Right.
Is this the video?
This is funny.
That's my oldest daughter.
She has a dog in the house.
Oh, so you, oh.
The daughters, they just start bawling crying.
Oh.
No.
All right, go, listen.
I'm gonna stop,
because this goes on for five more minutes.
She can't, she's hysterical.
She can't stop crying.
We had two days before Christmas, that's awesome.
Well, weird because you walk out of prison numbed.
Like people feel, but you don't feel.
So it's like people get sad, but you don't get sad.
People get, you know,
you are so used to seeing pain and hurting and all,
you know, that like people who watch that video
and they go, man, why aren't you that more emotional?
I'm like, I don't know.
It was so, it was so real.
Yeah.
You know, you're out there and you're like, man, this is,
I don't, I don't understand.
People become interchangeable too.
Like you have to understand,
I can be best friends with you.
Like you're the coolest guy.
And then one day you're on the blackout, you're gone.
I never hear from you again.
So I start talking to you.
And then two months later, you're gone.
Somebody else comes in, he's cool.
He's gone three months.
Somebody else, so you have these people
that you have to understand you're cool with,
but you don't even get to like miss them.
They're like gone.
They're just, don't imagine if every six months
or three months or a year, your wife dies
or your buddy dies or your best friend died.
It's just gone.
And you're like, so you get to that point
where you've become, you're cool.
I like hanging out with you,
but you're a sticker furniture.
Yeah.
You're just interchange, like you'll be gone.
So you don't allow yourself to get that connection anymore.
And you just become, listen, it turns you into a psychopath.
If you weren't going in, you are coming out.
Yeah.
And the problem is, man, now I'm sorry.
Dealing with a bunch of stuff.
Like we were talking about the other day,
we have similar, if you do fraud at the scale
that I used to do it, you have issues.
You have issues of, you're a sociopath.
Because like people ask me,
did you ever feel bad about scamming these people?
And I'm like, no, it actually felt pretty good.
It actually, you know, the fact that you go to battle
and you win the battle every time,
that's freaking amazing.
But when people look at you, well,
the problem is the guy that lost the bottle,
the battle is now fucked out of money.
And you're like, well, but you don't think about that
because the money, money becomes irrelevant.
You know, there is a point where a million,
two million, five million, $600,000, $20, $30,
that's not why you do it.
You do it because it's a fix.
You're a little sick in the head.
So now I get out and I have to be
on the other extreme of the spectrum.
So the other day, I can't believe I'm gonna tell this story.
The other day I go to a supermarket, man.
And the cashier goes, hey, you need a mask.
I said, dude, do you have a mask?
Was this in Florida?
Yeah, and I'm like, yeah, in Orlando.
And I'm like, that's fine.
They usually give you-
They give you a mask.
You know, I said, well, do you have a mask?
And he goes, well, we are now selling them for $1.50.
I said, are you fucking kidding me, dude?
I come here all the time and you always give me a mask.
Yeah, we now sell them for $1.50.
I said, you know what, give me the fucking mask.
Here's the $1.50.
So as I'm walking out, the manager is standing out
and I said, this and bro, I come here every day.
I buy lunch, I buy my groceries here.
This guy charged me $1.50 per mask.
And I had to get three masks used to prove a point.
So the guy goes, oh, shit, man, that's wrong.
You know, we're gonna give you a $4.50 credit.
All right, so I walk out and I'm like, man, I score.
I did it.
You know?
So I go to Maria, who is the attorney that I work with,
and I tell her, man, you know what happened?
I fucked these people.
I came in there, I told them I got one mask,
but then I told them three masks and it was $4.50
and I got $4.50.
And she goes, all right, I'm gonna drive you right back.
You're gonna give him back the $3.
I look at, I don't, I don't,
why am I gonna give him back the $3 if I score them?
They fucked me out of money.
She goes, yes, but you cannot fuck people out of money
just because they fucked you out of money
because you are not normal.
You see, you don't know the difference
between $3 and a million.
So if you get away with that one,
the next one, it could be $100,000.
So you gotta go back and give this guy his $3 back.
So I had to walk in there, like a five-year-old, like,
I'm sorry, I like, I like, I like.
Did she walk you in there or hold your hand
and walk you in there?
Let me tell you, she does this shit all the time.
Like I run things by her and she'll be like,
listen, let's talk about this.
Okay, what happens to these people that you're gonna do this?
Well, they may get fucked or they may not get fucked.
Okay, that is a problem.
And we're not doing that right now
because you're on probation.
Okay, I guess I won't do that anymore.
See, to me, it's funny, he says that
because I'm actually the opposite.
Like I went to Dunkin' Donuts the other day,
I hand them, I handed them like $20.
The girl counts out the money
and she gave me back like $25.
Plus some change and I went,
no, no, you give me $10 too much.
I gave you a 20 and she's like,
no, no, I gave you this.
I went, no, no, you gave me,
I gave you a 20, you just gave me 25 or 26 and 12 cents.
My coffee and my thing that was this.
And she's like, no, no, she goes and gets her manager.
Manager comes back, they look in the thing
and I'm sitting there in the line
and they're going, no, no, it's right.
And I go, ma'am, I said, I assure you, I didn't give you,
and I opened my wallet, I only have 20s.
I didn't give you 30.
I go, you gave me too much money.
Now I said, I'll leave, I'm good.
She goes, hold on, she opens the registry, she looks at it,
she goes, yeah, you're right, you gave him an extra.
Here's a free coffee, here's a gift card.
No, I just gave her the money back and I was like,
and I drove and I left, but I mean, that's like.
How did that make you feel, Matt Cox?
You know what, and it seems silly,
it doesn't make me feel.
It's a brand new feeling for him.
It didn't make me feel anyway at all
because I just, here's the problem is like,
it's constantly like people contacting me about fraud.
You could do, I could do this, I could do this.
And it's like, no, no, no, no, no.
It doesn't matter, like there was a long time ago,
I would have been like, how can I use this guy?
But now I'm like, you don't understand.
They're looking for a reason for me to fuck up.
I do one thing, I get in front of the judge, I'm done.
I can never be in front of him.
Like there's silly things the other day.
The cameras, oh, the cameras the other day.
Literally, this is what happened.
So I order these cameras, right?
Like I have a buddy who bought cameras for me.
Keep talking, I got a P.
Okay, so I had a buddy who bought cameras for me.
I get the cameras.
Amazon says you have to be there on Saturday
to get the camera, do you have to sign for them?
Okay.
So on Friday, I got another package.
I go out, I get my package, I go to open my box,
I look down, there's three little boxes
just sitting under my box at the apartment complex.
And I went, that's weird.
Look down, sure enough, they're for me.
And I went, huh.
So I pick them up, go back to my house, open up the boxes.
Hey, this is the cameras.
First they said to be here Saturday, it came a day early.
How many did you order?
Three of them.
And now I have to make payments to my buddy.
Like I don't even have the money to buy the cameras.
You know, this ain't cheap.
So I was like, oh, cool.
And of course my, and I thought,
yeah, I was supposed to sign for these.
Nobody even signed for these.
Well, these are expensive.
What if someone took them?
And my first thought was opportunity.
Like I could, I'll never sign for them.
So I can just call.
Yeah.
You got three free cameras.
Right.
But you see, let me stop you there for a second.
That's why my friends tell me that thought is not normal.
Isn't it funny?
Cause that's my first thought.
So it's mine.
How do I get over on?
How do I use this to my advantage?
That is not normal.
I am told.
I think it's perfectly normal.
See, what's funny is I think it's perfectly,
my first thought is how do I use this to my advantage?
Correct.
So the first thing I do is I call my buddy and I go,
boom, and I explain it to him and I said, opportunity.
And he goes, yeah, yeah, he was right.
He goes, so what do you want to do?
I said, well, here's what I'm thinking.
And then I went, and so I talked to him
for a couple of minutes and I hang up
and then I start thinking,
if I say I didn't get them,
like they're not going to look into it.
They're just going to give me more cameras.
I'll get more cameras.
I'll sell them.
I'll get, that'll pay for almost the whole cameras,
even if I discount them, whatever.
And then I was like, and I thought,
if they even punch my name in the computer
and they see who I am,
they may actually look into it.
Like at this point, they're going to be like,
look, if we can get anybody, we can get this guy.
He can't even mount the defense.
So for sure.
And then I go back and I think,
what if there's a camera?
What if they look at the camera?
My buddy's going, they're not going to look at the camera.
What if it's not set up?
Right.
Well, it's not even set up,
but I'm like, they look at the camera
and he's like, it's not enough money for him to,
and you're right.
If it wasn't me, it would, but it is me.
And all day, it's a couple of phone calls.
And I'm in front of the judge trying to explain why I lied.
And oh, we have surveillance, but it's like,
and listen, the judge, and then the judge yanks,
he yanks me up and says,
you know what, I'm going to give you five years
just on probation, just from the violate your probation
and give you a whole new five years.
And even though we can't do that,
it'll take you at least two or three years
to try and unravel it and fix it in the court.
Like he'll be furious.
And I was like, what do you do?
Like I'm so far on the other end of the, I'm so scared.
Like I'm so terrified that, but you know,
but you're right, my first thought is always-
Free cameras.
How do I this?
How do I that?
How can I this?
Remember the lessons that you put on your little kit
in the drug program.
I broke that, all that.
Criminal thinking errors.
It's all criminal thinking,
but I've taken that, most of those.
I've placed them in a box.
I've closed the box and I placed it on the shelf.
It's there.
I know what you said at a later date.
Right, but it's not, it's not really actively available.
So, yeah.
But I'll tell you some interesting facts
about a prison that you guys,
I know people that watch these podcasts,
they want to hear the crime and they want to hear the stop,
but they also want to hear like,
like orange is the new black.
Is it really like that?
Yeah.
And there is a level of insanity in prison
that I didn't know existed until I started reading
my Facebook post,
because I was writing every week what was going on.
And some days I was super sad
and some days I was super happy.
But I remember one day I'm going into education
and I'm like, let me see what classes these guys are teaching.
This is a prison.
So they're teaching scuba diving.
Okay, it's one of the classes.
What?
Sailing is another one of the classes.
And sea navigation.
Now we don't have anybody of water anywhere in this prison,
except the toilets.
They're teaching CDL license, how to drive a truck,
but there is no trucks to drive.
And then real estate investment.
Bingo.
And credit management.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
What about the, what's it when you grow plants?
A horticulture.
Horticulture.
Horticulture.
So.
Oh, we got it.
It's okay, just do it.
We can keep going.
So I'm thinking, okay, who's teaching sea navigation?
And they tell me, well, is this guy that used to transport
kilos of cocaine from the Bahamas?
I'm okay.
Nice.
And who's teaching the truck driving class?
Well, is this guy that got caught with a bunch of kilos
of heroin and the truck?
I said, all right.
And who's teaching real estate?
Well, Matt Cox, I'm like, oh, that's fantastic.
Well, I might as well teach the credit class.
I got it.
So I remember riding home going, this is insane.
Who decides to teach scuba diving?
And by the way, these classes were packed.
And there was no tank, no regulator.
These guys are just telling you like, listen,
this is how you do it.
Yeah, yeah.
And people are taking notes on this stuff.
And it was just, it was just insane.
Then you get these gangsters needing and making sweaters
and making stuff animals and you're making teddy bears.
And you'll hear them talking like,
Hey, listen, motherfucker, that's not too tight, man.
That's not too tight.
And you're like, what are you talking about?
And they're like, yeah, they are.
And they pulled it out of the guy.
And the guy's, man, I'm going to kick your ass.
And I was like, this is something is off in here.
Oh, you go to commissary and you'll hear the guy going,
what?
There is no strawberry ice cream this week.
That's fucked up, man.
I remember telling people, was that part of your sentence?
I mean, did the judge tell you like, listen,
you're going to get strawberry ice cream every week.
If you don't call me, I'll take care of that.
So it's weird.
It's very weird.
At the medium, there was a guy who,
he was like 17, 18 years old in Columbia.
He had murdered like 15 or 20 people for Pablo Escobar.
And the feds at some point picked him up
and he got a life sentence.
And he was the alter boy or deacon or whatever.
For the Catholic mass at the medium,
had killed like 15 or 20 people.
Well, nice guy.
The guy that was teaching parenting was,
remember the Spanish guy who was doing life
and who was teaching parenting?
Wow.
Yeah.
What the hell?
So it was, it's insanity.
It's insanity.
You mentioned that when you went to the shoe for six months,
it had an effect on your psyche?
Yeah.
Yeah, I got out and I have issues sleeping
because you are so used to the light being on all the time
and people banging on the door every half an hour
because they want to know if you kill yourself or,
like there was the biggest question they asked you
on every prison you go is,
do you feel like you want to harm yourself or others?
And you're like, no man, I don't feel like I want to harm myself.
I feel like I want to harm others, but not myself.
And so they check on you all the time.
And then you are kind of confined into four walls
and you get used to that space.
Like I'm used to little spaces.
I'm not used to big spaces.
And crowds kind of like get on my nerves.
And small talk.
Like I used to be a small talk guy.
Like to commit fraud, you have to small talk.
You go there and you are like,
hey, so how about the game and how about the weather?
And now I go to like meetings and I'm like,
these guys, I want your fucking idiots, man.
You know, I mean, I'm, so it's weird.
Prison changes you and it changes you in all aspects.
And if you guys have girlfriends or married or whatever
or boyfriends, I mean, it's 2021.
That's popular now.
Dude, imagine eight and a half years in my case,
13 on Matt's case, not getting late.
I mean, I'm assuming Matt went 13 years not getting late,
but eight and a half years.
That's a big assumption.
That's a big assumption.
And I used to tell the guys like,
when they call their girlfriends, I said, ask them,
have you been unfaithful?
Yeah, well, I have to.
But yeah, dude, you don't think about those things.
Eight and a half years not touching somebody
or somebody not touching you.
And it's like, you start like disconnecting
from all those things, you know?
So then you get out and it's, it's,
it's readapting is weird.
Are there any things that you can like put your finger on
or like point to in your personality that changed
specifically from the six months in solitary?
Like, is there anything about that six months
that you know that changed something?
Yeah, dude, I learned to talk to myself,
but I think I'm talking to other people.
So like the other day,
somebody was giving me like an hour and a half ride.
And I'm sitting in the car like this for an hour and a half
and she goes, dude, what the fuck?
You haven't said a word.
And I said, oh my God, but I was talking.
I just wasn't talking to you,
but I was having like a full out conversation with myself
and I'm nodding and I'm like,
so I find myself doing a lot of like talking to myself.
Do you ever do that?
I thought, don't do most people talk to them.
Like I talk to myself all the time.
I have arguments with people.
I'll have arguments.
Like if I'm gonna argue with Jess,
by the time I get to her house,
I've had that argument about 30 times.
I've answered every-
Overcome every objection.
Every objection is over.
I have rebuttals to everything she's gonna say.
So by the time she actually gets an opportunity
to start the conversation, it's over.
I'm gonna win the argument.
I've had it 30 fucking times.
You're done, I win.
This is what we're doing.
Yeah, that's normal.
She's, okay, thank you.
Okay, I feel good about that.
I feel better about that, but yeah, go ahead.
Does everybody have one?
That she's gonna win the argument?
No, she does have that internal dialogue.
Internal dialogue, I think in general is important.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, Dad, you do a lot of like,
introspect, I guess you live your life
over and over and over and over.
So you get like these snapshots of your life
when you're sitting there and you're kind of thinking.
So I don't know, you just walk out of it.
I have issues sleeping in a big bed.
So sometimes I sleep better in a couch.
That took a long time.
Yeah, it took a long time for me to sleep on a-
Dude, I go to the couch and I'm like,
man, this is too weird.
You know, the big bed, I don't sleep well
because you're like rolling and it's like,
man, this shit's endless.
You said that at one point, you said that
when you talk about yourself to people in the prison
that you say that like, I'm crazy, man, I'm crazy.
Don't fuck with me, I'm crazy.
Is that really you or was that just sort of like
a personality or a hat you were wearing?
I think you go a little crazy.
When you've done some time, you go a little crazy.
And you don't know you're crazy.
Crazy becomes normal.
Like I was, we were talking about it the other day.
I mean, somebody, let's say he gets walked
with a lock on the head and he's on the floor bleeding.
Your first thought is, let's help this guy out.
Our first thought is, shit, we gotta take a shower, man,
because they're gonna close the showers.
We're gonna get some ice.
I need to get ice.
I need some coffee.
Can you get the radio from that guy?
Because that's my fucking radio.
So it's, it's, you are, you know.
I gotta put it in a cop out.
I literally, guy got stabbed one time.
Before they locked us down, I had filled out a cop out
for his room and put it under the counselor's door.
So we're literally the next day when the counselor comes in,
they're all locked down.
Why, I don't know, but Cox wants his room.
I mean, I did, I got his room too, by the way.
Go ahead.
Yeah, well, you ask, is the guy coming back?
No, no, he seems to be in a coma.
All right.
Can I get his room?
This guy just got stabbed up a little.
He's fine.
Can I move to the bottom bunk?
So, so you, that, you become a little,
that turns you a little crazy.
And especially when you get the new kids coming
and they're new inmates and they don't know,
you kind of don't have patience for that kind of stuff.
You earn your stripes, you know?
And you do some crazy thing.
I mean, Matt did his own set of crazy things
and everybody does their own set of crazy things in prison.
I, this tattoo, this is a prison tattoo right here.
Wow, I think pretty, I was looking at that.
I think it's pretty fucking incredible.
And let me tell you, so I go to the pen and I,
you didn't have that at home.
What is it?
Do you understand that this is like not you?
This is not how I see you.
Well, you know, I'm business gangster now.
It's a new thing that I'm trying.
This is a, Michael, there are Archangel.
Archangel.
Michael, stepping on the devil.
But so I go to the pen and the big thing
at the pen is getting tattooed.
So I'm like, man, I gotta get tattooed, you know?
I gotta, I gotta get ink.
So I call my daughter's hand like,
man, I gotta get some prison ink.
And my daughter's like that.
You're so stupid, you know?
You're a note gangster.
And you're like a white collar criminal.
And I'm like, ah, you know,
and I'm wrapping to them like, you know, like,
Kendrick Lamar, damn, my God, bitches.
Damn, and they're like that.
Stop it.
You're just, you're brown.
Which by the way, I'm told, I was told,
after your podcast, somebody corrected me and said,
no, you are mocha, cinnamon mocha.
Cinnamon mocha, nice.
I said, ah.
So I tell this guy, I said, I wanna get tattooed.
He goes, okay, you gotta make your own ink.
I said, how do you do that?
He goes, well, you gotta get Vaseline.
You make a fuse out of toilet paper.
And then with a battery, you light it up.
You put it inside of your locker and you let it burn.
That black dust, I guess.
I don't know what you guys call it.
Ashes.
Like the ashes that stick to the sides of the locker.
You take your ID and you scrape it in a piece of paper.
Then you get shampoo.
You take the alcohol pads from the diabetics
and you put a couple drops of alcohol in a little bottle
and then you shake it with the ashes in it.
And you shake it until it turns black.
Then you run your finger and when it runs,
you tell the guy, it's ready, bro, let's get this done.
So he goes, well, you need to get the needle.
And I go, well, where do I get the needle?
He goes, you gotta go to the church
and take the guitar and cut one of the strings.
So occasionally the priest will be like, dude,
we're missing five or four strings from the fucking guitar.
Can you guys stop tattooing this, you know?
I mean, we cannot sing.
So you get a piece of the string, they strain it out,
they burn it up.
And then the tattoo gun is made with the motor
of a wall clock, a toothbrush, and a pen.
And they put the needle through that
and they start tattooing you.
Jesus.
That shit is so toxic
that you break into a fever for like two days.
And you got like the shakes for two days
and then you gotta wear long sleeves
because if they guard, see you tattooed
and it's fresh, you lose 54 days.
Once that is healed, they know you fucked them.
So once that is healed, you're taking your shirt off
everywhere and you're walking out of the shower
and then they'll call you like this and come here.
You didn't have that when you came in, I did.
Well, dude, we have a picture of you without it.
Now let's come in, let's take a new picture of it.
Puck, puck, puck, all right, there you go.
So yeah, so I got my tattoo, my ink.
Did anybody that you know,
or did you ever get sick from COVID when you were in there?
I got a couple of friends that died out of COVID
that you knew because they came from,
they died there, they came from Coleman.
A Dominican guy named Manolo,
their skin, he used to play softball.
That was a thing. Sounds familiar, yeah.
He was in Coleman for a long time.
He died of COVID.
Well, but the tattoo is kind of like a prison vaccine,
getting all those.
Well, but some people get like mercy and shit like that
because they get tattooed and then they go take a shower
and it's just like, that's bad.
Now I've seen some people's art get all fucked up,
but you know how much this was?
A pair of shoes, 25 bucks, 25 bucks.
Damn.
And the guy told me, listen,
I'll do the whole sleeve for 250.
Some macros, some stamps,
and I was ready to do it, but they moved the guy.
So, you know, now I come out of the streets
and this was 350.
What are you doing, bro?
Gangster, bro, business gangster.
That's the future, man.
Why didn't you get any tattoos?
I'm getting tattoos.
Look at me.
He's got a tramp stamp.
Do you have a tramp stamp?
Don't listen to him.
Do you guys got tattoos?
Don't say stuff like that.
I have one, yeah, yeah.
Do you?
I just actually recently got it for a friend of ours
who was learning to get tattooed
and she had to do some like three tattoos.
Oh, you don't want to do that.
Yeah, I did it.
No, no, no.
You don't want to get a tattoo from a guy that you started.
You don't want to get a vasectomy from a guy
that you started.
You don't do it with guys that you started.
Well, not a vasectomy, but the tattoo is cool
because I had no reason.
I had never had interest in getting tattoo before,
but it was like a...
Is it good?
Did it turn out good?
It's decent.
Yeah, it's decent.
It's all right.
Yeah, you get addicted though.
Yeah, it is.
I can see how it's definitely addicting.
You definitely want more.
And then you see it and you're like,
man, the one that I really wanted was this one.
So I can put, and then before you know it,
you're working on a sleeve.
You're running out of canvas pretty soon.
Listen, this is the guy that had a bunch of procedures
done on him and he's complaining
that I got a fucking tattoo.
Come on.
What if I don't like it?
Like my fear is, I have a fear of commitment.
Like what if I get something that's like trendy now
and like five years from now, people are like,
that's stupid.
What were you thinking?
Like my brother actually got a tattoo
and it was that you guys don't know what this is.
It's the keep on trucking tattoo
where there's a guy walking towards you
and the front of his foot on the bottom of the sole,
it says like keep on trucking.
So his foot's real big.
And then he got another one of like Tweety Bird.
He's got like these stupid tattoos that he later,
I'm like, what were you doing?
He's like, it was cool at the time.
They had shirts and I'm like, yeah, but it's trendy.
He's like, yeah, but I didn't know that.
I didn't know it wasn't going to be cool later.
It's like, everything's just stupid.
Like he's got all these ridiculous tattoos.
And then he's got other tattoos that are just like not him.
It's like you have a knife with a snake going through it.
Like you're not a biker.
I thought it was cool.
It's like, stop.
I saw a guy in prison getting his whole head.
Louis Vuitton.
Really?
Like a purse.
And I had a guy, I actually drew out a bunch and his whole sleeve was Louis Vuitton.
The pattern?
Yeah, the pattern.
I met him when he didn't have that.
And then I saw him in Oklahoma and I'm like, what the fuck?
And he's like, yeah, I know, man.
I said, what were you thinking?
He's like, I don't know.
So Louis Vuitton will hire you.
Yeah.
I mean, you have a job there.
But yeah, the skull is a little bit too much.
And then you have the guys with the tears.
They're sad.
They're very sad.
Yeah.
It's a crazy world in there.
Yeah.
I mean, all the different prisons and pens that you went to, what was the worst one you
were in?
What was the worst prison that you were in?
Obviously, Coleman was probably the nicest one.
Oh, Coleman was the nicest one.
Coleman was pretty good.
We were talking about that.
Coleman was great.
I thought Coleman was pretty good.
Yeah.
I thought, listen.
I thought it was great.
Being worse as time goes by.
The drugs, they start getting in all that.
K2, the K2, ruin it.
And then you had the state start to stop picking up crimes.
So the feds were picking up these 18, 19, 20-year-old criminals for little shit that used to be
state crimes before.
So we had a bunch of kids in the prison running around and picking up fights and, you know,
doing stupid stuff.
But Coleman was good.
I'll say the last one, the one, the D-Ray James, the one where they had all the immigrants.
Because that was a...
I was going to say the ICE facilities were the worst.
ICE facilities, you have no rights because you are an immigrant, basically, and you're
getting punished twice by the staff.
See, in prison, the staff punishes you because you are a criminal.
So the guards look at you like, you know, the judge didn't give you enough time, so
I'm going to make your life fucking miserable.
Like, you know, we had, what was the guy that used to wear the dreads, the short black dude
that used to...
I don't know.
The guy with dreads.
And...
Gold teeth.
Gold teeth.
Gold teeth.
You'll remember this one, the black lady from the library, the library, Ms. Johnson, Ms.
Johnson, Ms. whatever.
No, no.
Ms. Johnson was nice.
No, Ms. Johnson was nice.
You're talking about...
You're talking about Ms....
Bro, no, she was the worst.
She was terrifying.
She will tell you things like, she will tell you, don't look at me in the eyes when you
talk to me.
Don't look at me in the eyes.
Yeah, and lie and lie.
She was right.
Report saying that you...
You pushed her.
You pushed her.
You hit her.
Like, I mean, they had a...
And guys would beat the...
Saunders.
Ms. Saunders.
Ms. Saunders.
Guys would beat...
Yeah, if you're watching these Ms. Saunders, fuck you.
Yeah, you're a scumbag.
Look, in people...
Like, she would literally...
She would...
She...
First of all, she was bipolar.
Like, she was completely insane.
And so, then she would write you up for something that didn't happen.
Try and get you thrown in the shoe.
Try and get your job taken away.
Like, this was a psychotic chick.
And then, say stuff like, he grabbed me.
He pushed me.
Well, they have a camera right there.
And so, what happened was, so many people complained after multiple people with the
shoe for nothing.
Eventually, they literally...
She would say, go to the lieutenant's office right now.
I'm writing you up.
And I'd listen.
But you'd get to the lieutenant's.
You'd walk in.
You'd go, hey, Ms. Saunders sent me down here, and they'd go, Jesus.
Well, she said she's writing me a shot, and they'd go, just go back to the unit.
I'd be like, yeah, but she said she's writing a shot, and I'm going to quash her shot.
It sounds just like high school.
Just go...
It is just like high school.
That's correct.
But look, a lot of the guards are hooked on oxys.
Do you remember...
Oh, my God.
Wait, do you remember...
Would you say the guards...
And they're like...
Would you say the guards like their jobs?
Do you think they have some do?
I think they make good money.
I think they make good money.
Like, look, I liked the guards that were there because it was just a job.
And then, they're the guards that actually, like, literally, they would pay to be there
because they have an opportunity to be sadistic and not catch up with them.
But I was just going to say, do you remember a guard by the name of Tibet?
White guy.
Super nice.
Do you know what happened?
He was a guy that was always taking pills and stuff, but PTSD, happy TSD, better end,
yeah.
No, no, but guess what?
No, what happened?
So, there was a huge case from the female camp saying that the guards were pressuring
them to have sex, and so they filed a lawsuit, right, against all these guards.
Tibet was named in the lawsuit, so Tibet drives to Coleman on Christmas, right around late
December, I think, drives into Coleman in the parking lot, takes his revolver out, sticks
in his mouth, and blows his fucking brains off.
No way.
Damn.
This is that recent big lawsuit, right?
All those girls that came.
The one that Jess came.
Yeah.
Is that what they turned into?
A male camp, I guess?
They settled the lawsuit, by the way.
What did they settle?
Oh, yeah, the BOP settled it.
When did this happen?
A couple months.
Five tunas.
Like a month or two ago?
No, they were sort of like 20 million, bro.
There was no joke.
Can you pull up the news on that, though, the Coleman settlement?
Yeah, they, I mean, listen, Tibet blew his fucking brains out, like, Tibet was the nicest.
Yeah, Tibet was.
Like, if I had to say, any guard you liked, who's the best guard that you ever were there
and liked, and genuinely just like a nice guy, look, he wasn't sharp.
He probably didn't have a Hunter IQ, but he was a nice guy.
And I think that's a problem.
If you are a nice guy and you go and you get that job, man, you're going to end up.
Yeah.
Oh, there you go.
I don't know what they, what they, it was it.
Hey, what are you guys looking at?
We got ads.
We got two months.
We got two free articles.
Yeah, what the hell is this?
Get Cialis for $5 a day?
What kind of stuff are you guys watching?
Sign me the fuck up.
What's your email?
Subscribe now.
Lawsuit settled in which 15 women alleged sexual abuse at Florida prison, federal correctional
facility Coleman.
I don't know what it was settled for, though.
I do know it was settled.
I wonder how much.
United States has settled a lawsuit with 15 women who said one point, one point, two
six million.
Between 15, that's not bad.
Between 15 women.
About 80,000 a pop.
Says 11 women.
11.
Oh, 11, only 11.
James DeMiles.
We need to get his ass on here.
Do you think Justin's getting any money?
She wasn't in there?
Who?
Just a part of that lawsuit?
No.
She was saying all those girls are lying.
She's like, those girls are lying.
That's right.
That's right.
Huh?
Oh, yeah.
So the girls we had on here.
We had Jess.
Oh, you had Jess in here?
Uh-huh.
And the other girl that was at Coleman, right?
Yeah, yeah.
And they were basically saying.
They were saying that's bullshit.
These girls just, their claim was the girls are fabricating the story and blowing it out
of the water.
And targeting.
A lot of the girls would target the guards.
Like, I'm going to start sleeping with him and I'm going to get him to bring me in stuff.
And they would, so they would do that.
And they got a sentence reduction on top of that.
Yeah.
Most of these girls were out already.
Oh, okay.
But yeah.
All of them got together and got an attorney and ensued.
So it's.
Were you there when they took the pockets out of the shorts?
Yes, they did.
We had a lawsuit in Coleman because I guess they, what we call the shooters.
Gunners.
Gunners.
Gunners.
The guys would jack off.
Viciously.
Yeah.
I mean, all guys jack off.
Finally.
But the guys will do it like in front of the guards.
Or they put their hands in their pockets and they jack off.
Feed the female guards, right?
Yeah.
The female.
Well, some of them.
Or the male guards.
Well, Matt Cox probably see a handsome male guard.
See?
It's going to be a comment in the thing.
I don't like the way you said that.
Yeah, they don't.
They don't like when I make fun of Matt.
Really?
Come on.
Rap.
Come on.
Let's go.
So, so the female, the female guards ended up getting settled on that.
Oh, no, listen.
They made a bunch of money.
And they took all our pockets.
We had to turn in our shorts.
Get our pockets taken off.
They took our pants off and now we have to wear like the medical pants with their rubber
bands.
You're missing the point.
That was the part.
That was the part about this is my favorite part.
My favorite part is that the female guards, like in the medium and in the pen, guys would
jack off.
They would masturbate, you know, staring at some woman.
So one guy, I want to say was in the pen.
He actually is standing like behind the door and actually blows, you know, semen.
Should I say semen or nut?
So anyway.
Fluids, body fluids.
Body fluids.
Yes, thank you.
He fucking blows a nut.
On her and it ends up on her on her pants leg.
She goes to the lieutenant and says this guy and this has been happening by the way.
She's been complaining that the female guards have been complaining and the lieutenants
are ignoring their complaints.
This is a female guard.
The lieutenants are ignoring them.
So she comes and she said, I've been telling you this and this and this is what this guy
just did.
And she goes, he just skied it all over me.
And the lieutenant says, you're not medical staff.
You don't know what that is.
You're not.
You're not.
You're not trained to know what that is.
You're not a medical woman.
Yeah.
She's seen some.
She have had semen on her before.
Absolutely.
So I remember reading the article thinking, it makes me feel good that the lieutenants
at the staff treat the staff as shitty as they treat you.
That's the kind of stuff they'd say to you.
So the women get together and they sue.
They have this.
It was like a $20 million settlement at the Coleman complex.
And in the settlement, they said, one, you guys have been ignoring this for a year and
two.
One of the things we want you to do is take away all the inmates' pockets.
So they had to change out all the pants.
So we couldn't have pants.
Couldn't have belts.
You had rubber.
Yeah.
The stupid.
The elastic.
No pants.
No pockets.
I got no pockets.
Why do they always put those uniforms?
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Nobody's wearing stripes.
I don't know why they're doing that.
That's like a Disney character.
Is that what the pants look like?
No.
No.
Nobody.
Yeah.
They're like.
Listen, if you go to my Facebook, I actually have some personal pictures in there.
Yeah.
Coleman prison.
Yeah.
2005, 2014.
Yeah.
They were ignored.
So it would have been in 2014 or 15 when they took away our pants or our pockets.
You can't.
There are guys jacking off so much.
They take the pockets away.
And my big thing is with the rubber bands on the waist, you can jack off.
Oh, $20 million right there.
Listen to that.
$20 million settlement.
See it.
Inmates were masturbating everywhere.
It felt like a free for all one woman said.
According to court documents, I probably saw 25 to 30 inmates masturbating during one
shift.
Which, let me put that in perspective.
There is 1,900 inmates in Coleman Law.
So really 25 guys masturbating at, you know, is very low.
That's the fair number.
So I don't think that's the wow.
It speaks about the erectile dysfunction that exists in prison.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a fair number I think well, you know, I mean where I think this wasn't the low
I think this was probably more and there's five of us here if you say, you know during my interview with three guys
We're masturbating how many were there five shit? That's a high number. Yeah, but 25 out of 1900. Mm-hmm, you know probably standard
Yeah, that's yeah, yeah
They put their hands and they got a hole in the pocket
Black and white, you know, I want to sign up for the class that happens and that happened a lot of the real estate class
Yeah, it was it was unbelievable you get you get some characters in prison and then you sit there
It makes masturbating in front of the prison more difficult, but not impossible
More difficult you do understand like usually the things we're talking about like how imagine that's your
Life, this is your life being around guys that are literally
You know, you're sitting there doing work at the library and you look over and some guys staring it through a window at a sec female
secretary go
Yeah, and you're like
This guy and you gotta and you're teaching GD. Yeah, and you're like listen guys pay attention here
Don't look at the masturbator pay attention right here, right? You know algebra fellas. That's that's your life
Yeah, that's it's a so so you get out and you are not yeah, you're not normal
Everything the world you see the world through through different lenses, you know, does it get better Matt?
I'll let you know
Three years
Two years, I've been out two years
So what happened is so in and I say this is that literally of course it you know, I
Gradually I went I lived in someone's spare room. So I have a little tiny space, you know
I so I mean my world has slowly gotten bigger and
Like even sleeping literally. Oh, I didn't tell you this is good. So Stacey. I stayed at Stacey's, right? Yeah, she had a room and
She had a closet. I
Put my bed in the closet
That was a huge closet in the closet and I used to sleep in the closet and
And when I put my bed, I said well, I'm gonna put my bed in here
Okay, so I said I'm gonna I'm gonna have this my art studio and she goes
Why don't you use the closet for the and why don't you we can move that I go? No, no, I want to put it in there
It fits in there. It's good. She's like it's so tiny and I go
It's twice as big as myself as a matter of fact bring the toilet. Well, I was like
And she was like you can't be serious. I'm like I feel comfortable. I slept great in that room
I felt I felt Jess would come over she'd sleep. She would be like this really comfortable when you're in there
I was like, it's weird, right?
And so then then eventually I moved into a bedroom and then you have to think too for the first six months to a year
I had this constant feeling like they're gonna come get me any minute. Yeah, like remember
I told you like I miss my friends. I think about my friends in prison like to me. This is temporary
I should be back in Coleman. Like I was like it didn't wouldn't bother me at all if I went back like the end of Shawshank Redemption
Yeah, and you are yeah, you end up getting out and you reach out to the people that you did time with that
You were actually hanging out with inside, you know
So they end up connecting sooner or later because it's the people that understand you, right?
You speak the same language sometimes when I say some things like
With my daughters, I thought I have to explain what I mean all the time like or I was telling my there
They I was at the doctor and my one of my kids call me and I said, I'm a medical
And they're like what? I said, oh shit. I'm a doctor. I'm not in medical
You know or one of them has a backyard and I keep saying it the regular and I'm like, yeah, let's go to the regular
I'm like shit. No the backyard the backyard is not the record. What about we said with your your girlfriend
You were like you were like off if somebody talked to me like that when I was in if someone listen
Yeah, that's what you start arguing. Well, it's funny that you said about the closet
I got into an argument the other day, man, and I was so pissed and I'm like, you know what?
I'm gonna lock myself in the fucking closet so I can think it's just like good. What I say
Yeah, this is too much space here
I just cannot get my head straight because you want confinement and then when people talk to you
You cannot snap at them like what I think and if this bitch talk like that to me in prison
I would have stabbed her remember the thing. Well, I'm not stabbing anybody
But I tell you what the one thing is it's it's please and thank you
Oh my god when I first went into prison like nobody saying please or set because that's soft. You're soft it like first of all
Like like I put no base in my voice. I'm talking normal in prison. It's what's up. Hey. Yeah, so listen
Hey, let me let me get some sugar like sweet any type of sweetener is sugar like any type of like
Listen, it's I can't even I'm I'm gonna go in there's so stupid like they don't have that they call sweat shirts are
Sweaters and they're like hey, let me get a sweater. I'm like it's not a sweater
It's a sweatshirt. So you realize very quickly. No, they're all sweaters, you know
They're all and there's all these things and you they stop saying please and thank you
That's off the window if you do that you're soft if you're soft you're you're basically a victim
So you stop saying that so then I get out here and I'm like, hey, let me get some coffee
it's like
Please please would you like so and I you start realizing I can't talk like like
I'm an asshole. It's how my two-year-old like I was kind of an asshole when I went in
I'm really an asshole. I at least I said please and thank you
So it took a lot like I really and so I try to have to do
Overly be polite like hey, I really appreciate that. Hey, thank you. So now like we were talking about going through the Starbucks
Yeah, I I'm real overly. I don't just order. I'm like, you know, hey, how are you doing today?
Like I have to really push myself to try and be sweet nice superficial charm
Absolutely, but I have to make that super. It's called fake insincerity, right?
Yeah, if you can do that you got it made. You can sell anything. Yeah, so I have to really do that hearing aids or hand grenades
Just last laugh that we're talking about laughs all the time. She's like, what are you doing? You're so I'm talking every trying to really make myself
Be sociable again. Yeah, because you're just not when you come out. No, I'm so comfortable being alone
But when you are with a compact
It's okay, like I want to hit I went to your house the other day and I'm like opening the fucking cabinet
Yeah, getting a glass and I'm getting that which was great because I don't offer anybody shit
Yeah, and I know listen if I walked into his cell I was gonna open his locker
And if you had some chips, I'm gonna eat them, you know what I mean, but then he had people there and they're sitting there like
Can we can we I'm like, yeah, grab that shit. I said yours. No, if he's there is to eat it
You know, otherwise who hide it, you know, because that's kind of like how it is in prison if you're on the table
It's for everybody right if you don't want people to eat it
Then you hide it, you know, so now that you're a free man
So what free now you're a free man
America the land of the free right the home of the brave. Yeah, this is the freest country in the world, right?
It's super free. Yeah 1% of our society is locked up more people per capita
I think than any other country is that right and any other country in the world, so they say set you free and now you got to walk through
basically a minefield
To make sure you don't get end up back in prison
Probation officer wants you to make payments to restitution, but he can't work. Yeah
Yeah, how am I gonna come in yesterday? Dude, you haven't made any payments on your probation on your restitution. I said, I can't I can't work
You're still on that I said
Yeah, man, I don't have a work permit. I don't have a driver's license if you can if you get me one
Over the shit out of this thing, but uh, he's like, I don't know he goes
How about you know, like getting a job and getting paid like cash, you know under the table? Really? I'm like, what a second
No, that's a federal offense. Yeah, that's that's that ball is immigration law. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I guess I guess it does
Yeah, man, no listen if I'm gonna do shit, I'm gonna do shit right your probation officer said that to you
They don't think you know, they're people talk. What about that? Like, you know, they're not they're not familiar with what goes on
Once you get out and they don't familiar with what goes on once you're in there
Like a lot of people think that we got prepared to be out and we don't nobody talks to you
Nobody tells you listen
This is what you're gonna face when you get out and it's like listen, you're out and how do I get home?
I don't know you're gonna get home. That's your fucking problem. You're out. Yeah, you get a job and then
Places you do to find a place to leave. I mean, I haven't crossed that bridge yet, but but when I
Tried they used to test the waters that he's lucky as family here. If you didn't have family here
He's sleeping on a park bench somewhere. Yeah, because it's a hot
What's it like? What's it like to find a place to rent and then you have to go back?
Because they go listen, we're gonna we're gonna do a background check. Do you have you committed a crime?
And I was like, well, you know, it's white collar and well, yeah, no, it doesn't matter if it's white collar, you know
I mean, I had somebody that took 300. I told the story. I think in your podcast. He took I said listen. I have a federal
criminal record. Oh
Is it is it sexual? Is it like, uh, you know child abuse or your child molester, right?
No, no, no, no, I'm like this and it's I'm white collar. Oh, yeah, you shouldn't have a problem. I said, okay, you know
So she runs
She takes my 300 bucks. Yeah, non refundable for the application
Then she calls me back. She's like, we run your criminal record and we cannot take you because you have a record
I said shit. I told you I had a record
She goes, yeah, but we didn't know that it will show up. It's a fucking federal record. You know, why wouldn't it show up?
She said, yeah, I said dude, you know, I think people were laughing at your podcast because I said fuck
I'm not a child molester, but I think I just got molested. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You know, yeah
I mean, it's it happens all the time to open a bank account the same thing
Everywhere you go, you're always you have the stigma of being a convict
So what some convicts do like me or Matt or other friends that I have is they actually take that and they use it to their advantage
You know, you you use it to do good instead of bad as crazy at the sounds of the fact that we're talking about this in podcasts like yours
It's it's good that people know behind the phone and behind that all the stuff
Men that if you do the wrong thing, you are gonna end up in prison period
Not if answer but yeah 10 years from now, you'll get out and you'll be at a concrete and you'll tell some
Oh my god, yeah, I remember is it worth the 10 years?
Absolutely not but you know, so what what we're trying to do is we're trying to I think
Expose one side of the system that a lot of people don't see you know
Like I was telling somebody or they the good thing about being a convicted felon is that I can talk about my crime
I can say listen, I did this and I did this and I did this and I was convicted
There's a bunch of people breaking the law right now and I see them on late night TV and I see them on on podcasts
Mm-hmm, and I'm like oh my god
This guy is
He's getting a bunch of fucking people indicted if he if they do what he's all this zero down real estate stuff
And all these MPP loans and PPP loans and all this, you know, I see them online all the time
I'm like men these people are gonna get a bunch of people fucked
They are getting a bunch of people fucked right now, you know, how many how many
Boziak said I don't know what he was like five
He's he's basically paid like two hundred and fifty dollars or three hundred dollars to like five or six different places
They've just taken his money in an application fees application fees. He was just he is like I'm I walk in
I'm like look, this is what's going on. Boom. Boom. You'll be fine
You'll be fine. No, we've had this problem. No problem. No problem filled it out. Bam. They just take my money
It happens. Oh, I don't think the I don't think the full skull tattoo helps this case. No, no
Yeah, but if you look he was like Justin Bieber when he was in prison, right?
I mean, this was I said that this was are you saw before the tattoos? Well, he had like the rock star thing
Right, and he had a couple of them
But but then he showed me a picture. I was like, dude, what the fuck did he join a gang when he got out of prison?
He did it backwards
Remember when I remember when I said I I wrote an
Article about how Trump had signed an executive order where he was going to deport all the Puerto Ricans that had convictions
Oh my god, you told that story here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Why did you write that article again?
Okay, because I was laying in bed one night and there were a bunch of Puerto Ricans like 1130 at night
Like it's we're supposed to be asleep
But these get bunch of Puerto Ricans were in front of my my cell and they're all like
Oh because they're Puerto Ricans they're Puerto Ricans. How do you how do you decide for a Puerto Rican from a Mexican hat?
Well, because the Mexican has a job
Okay, so I'm here. I'm asking a serious question in prison. You accent you can really first of all clicks. They hang out together
Okay, but the key is everybody has a number so the Hispanics segregate. Yes
We're not all created. Yeah, so they're going and I know most of these guys
Fifty shades of bright 180 people there's 180 people. I know who the Mexicans are
I know who the Spanish with the black guys are I know who I know who's from Miami
I know, you know, so these guys are that that that that that that that that I was like trying to go to sleep
And you know the whole thing is it's like it's not the kind of place where you can go
Hey, you guys can you please move because look now it's
Now they're screaming at you and if you scream bet now that now you got a major problem
It's a huge problem. So you lay there you put something over your head you put your mirror plugs in but I'm laying there
And I'm thinking and I wish these fucking guys would just would just go and I thought man
I really wish they'd all just go back to Puerto Rico and then I sat there and I thought
You know, and I thought oh, that'd be great and I thought, you know what?
Trump could send him back and I thought he could that's what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna have Trump send him back tomorrow
So I go to the library the next morning and I write up an article that says that Trump has just signed
Executive order 7205 14 dash 12
And that all any any Puerto Ricans that were born in Puerto Rico that came to the United States that have a felony
Conviction are being deported and then I go in and I add in quotes from the director of the Bureau of the federal Bureau of
prisons from what was that the old the old us attorney or the
Yeah, they are attorney general bar
No, it wasn't this one prior to him. Yeah sessions that I put in I put in a bunch of quotes from sessions saying it's perfectly legal
I put a quote in from you know, I gave numbers only there is like 45,000 Puerto Ricans out of them 28,000 are the portable
I looked up like all the things I looked up the name of the
of the
the
Not statue but the the agreement where Puerto Rico became a possession like why they became a possess like I had
Every this is a huge article. It took me hours to write it up
Then I had then I I read it over a few times
I really had Adobe Photoshop
So you can have a shot the CNN logo on top of it. I don't have nothing like that
So I write it a copy machine. That was a great thing. We had so I write it all up that works
Yeah, and there was a guy who ran a basically there's a there's a lawyer that everybody signed up to that sends out like a
Your newsletter so I had I basically made it. It was named Jeremy Gordon
So I put it in Jeremy Gordon's news recent newsletter change the name of the inmate
It was sent to whoever he was signed up to and then so it looks like it was a printout like it went to him
He printed it out on the on his computer
and it was came from Jeremy Gordon and he printed out on his computer and
So that's just what it looks like like it's this is an article from this is an article Gordon a jet
Well legit or article that was in the New York Times that Jeremy Gordon is and it's a part of his newsletter
I had other things that Gordon had talked about so I then go make a bunch of copies of it
And I post it on the bulletin board. I then go to some guy and I go hey, bro
I said, you know, you got you know, your buddy. He's a Puerto Rican guy, right?
I said is he seeing this and he goes no, what is that? Yeah, listen what's happening is holy shit
Okay, you need to show so-and-so walk away. He shows it to so-and-so. Listen, you just lit the fire lit the fire
Then I actually took fake news. I put it in all of these different. I put in all the different units
Like and I don't hear anything about it
Probably the next day or the day two days later
I'm standing in the chow hall line and there's two couple of white guys or something sitting in front of me going man
I hope they send them all back. No, no, no, and I'm thinking what are they talking about?
They're going back and forth. He's like, yeah. Well, I mean they come here. They commit crimes
They're not but they're US citizens. You can't just send them back. Trump can do it. Trump. So he always it's already done deal
It's a done deal. They can't be legal and I'm thinking oh my god
This is like these aren't even Puerto Rican guys listen by the time I get back to the unit by the end of the day
There've been I've heard ten different conversations about it
I walk in there is a whole group of Puerto Ricans together and there's one of them reading it over and translating it for the other ones
They're going nuts. Another day goes by
He comes up to me in the library one day. I'm sitting there. He comes up. He sits down. He gets what's going on
I was cuz you were teaching GED, right? Yeah, and I go. Hey, what's going on? He goes? Listen, man. I said, um
You heard this thing about Trump and he signed this executive order and I went
He's yeah. Yeah, he said there's a they're going crazy man. I go
Okay, listen, I gotta tell you something. I just swear to God you cuz now I'm getting nervous by the way
It's going so viral throughout the prison. I'm now starting to think they're gonna throw me in the shoe
I don't get there because there's a side of the story that Matt was not a participant of because he doesn't speak Spanish
Yeah, but they're coming to me because I'm the paperwork guy. Yeah. Yeah, and they're like a Venezuela Venezuela come here
Yeah, check this out and I'm reading it. I'm like
This doesn't make any sense. You're an American fucking citizen. That's like saying they're gonna deport you to Alabama
Yeah, that shit doesn't work like that. I don't know man. I don't know cuz you know
my sister
She heard about it until a Mundo and I'm like God she did and I like yeah
Yeah, and then somebody's like yeah CNN last night remember we were on the TV room and they're like oh my god
Yeah, and I'm like man, this doesn't make any sense. They're making it up. They're just exploding. Yeah people are calling their moms mom
You need to talk to my attorney. I cannot go by the Puerto Rico. I testified. Yeah, they're gonna kill me there
Yeah, they're the consulers are walking out telling calling the town
We got a town hall guys. We're doing our research
We have no gun any news from the BOP that this is going to happen. You need to slow down. It's a whole week
I mean I'm scared so now that you understand they'll they'll like they're they'll really so when I go to mad
I'm like, dude. Have you read this shit? What the fuck is this doesn't make any sense
I'm like you have to swear you will botch and he's like what I go listen. Just you cannot don't I mean like you can't go and
Tell your buddy and you think oh, he won't tell anybody don't you understand you can't tell anybody and he's like all right
What what I go
So I wrote the fucking article and I put it into and he goes
He goes he looked at me and he goes
These guys are going nuts and I go
Telling you brother. I said you know what you need to do and he's what I go
You need to tell all of them that you can file the paperwork to get them
To stay here like where they they're they will not deport them because they're in trouble
I said tell them to send you 125 bucks and you get the paperwork and I said you'll file up for them and he goes and
It's it will write up a form and will and he's like
Like you know much money because all you're kidding me. Yeah, I'm a thousand dollars
He's there's hundreds of these guys like they're going nuts Matt. You would make a great CNN or Fox executive
Yeah
Well years later, I'm out of prison. He's been out for two and a half years
And I missed all the politics and all the shit. I was I was in prison, you know
And I'm hearing this fake news stuff
So they're like oh, he's all fake news. He's all fake news and I'm trying to figure out what the fuck is fake news
So I'm watching as the newscast and I'm like I tell my brother
Dude, I gotta tell you a story about fake news in prison my friend Matt and I'm telling the story
I'm like that's the first time I heard of fake news really the same thing that's going on in the real world
It's just on a grander scale. Yeah, that's very interesting prison is like a micro
Yeah, you know system of what society is like and it's the same thing you have a percentage of people that have money
You have percentage people that are broke. You have the drug lords employing the broke people and
They will you I used to tell my brother man
This was Coleman don't and the media executives like Matt Cox
His defense magnum Matt did not employ slaves, okay
There were several inmates that did so there will be like this
The cylinder drug lords, you know 150 million dollars 200 million dollars in the bank
They will sit there and I and they will come yeah, even as well come here
So still there and say yeah, what's up, man? Listen, can you translate this for me?
And I'll be like yeah, I'll translate it for you. Do you want anything to eat?
Sure, hold on a second
Pedro come here for a second. So this guy will show up. Yes. What do we have to eat like a waiter, bro
It's another inmate. Well, we have pizzas. We have burritos. We have well, dude
I'll take a burrito give the men a burrito. You want anything to drink? All right. What do you have to drink?
Well a sprite coke
Dude, give me a sprite with ice. Yeah with ice. All right
So the guy will leave and come back with like this pride and the burrito and the whole thing
I mean they had it. Yeah, I mean he doesn't have it in his cell this guy's keeping his stuff
So he's putting money on multiple people's books. He's using multiple people's phones
You can only have 300 minutes. So he's you don't use you don't have any money. So here's what you're gonna do
I'm gonna put money on your books. You're gonna go to commissary for me. You're gonna get some commissary
I'm gonna use your phone minutes because you barely call anybody you can use some of them and you're gonna cook for me
And then you you'll clean my room. I'm gonna put money on your books. You're gonna go to commissary
You're gonna make my bed. You're gonna clean my cell. You're gonna do all my laundry. You'll do this
You'll do that like this guy never goes to commissary
He never really has to leave the unit all of his stuff is pressed and and done
Everything's taken care of he's for prison. You're still in prison, but you're living like a king
Yeah, right there upper class of the you know bougie and you're renting out other people's
Locker space because you you have to live out of a little tiny locker, right?
So you just us commissary spread throughout the whole drug, right, right?
So you're gonna keep my stuff. You're gonna keep my stuff like he probably has almost nothing in his locker
Like my locker was packed with crap, but I'll tell you
My first shocking story in prison, which a lot of people ask me I get to Miami my cell is Puerto Rican speaking of Puerto Rican
And he goes listen Venezuela. I need you to stand outside because I'm loaded
And I said, uh, what do you mean you're loaded? He goes, yeah, I got I got some
Like drugs he goes, no
Dude, why are you carrying what's going on? He goes? Well, I have a cell phone
I said, what do you have it? He goes have it on my ass in his prison purse. I said, shut the fuck up
You have a cell phone of your ass. He goes, yeah, what kind of phone I said? Well, I said, I'm like
Is this an iPhone I said, I'm not I'm not stepping out bro. You're gonna pull that shit out right now
He goes, yeah, I said, I want to see it. I want to see how he goes. Come on, bro
I said, no, bro. I've never seen this before. I don't believe first of all. I don't believe it. Yeah
He goes all right, man
So he gets another for a weekend to watch it and I'm sitting on my bed and this guy's like pushing his stomach and he's like
And out of the sudden here comes his phone bro like fuck
And I'm sitting there going. Oh my god
But the guy's still sitting and he's still pushing and I go dude got two phones
And he goes, what's shut up, bro?
Book the charger
Of course, how do you think I was gonna charge the phone, bro?
I would have never thought about putting the charger on my ass. I would have been the only idiot with a phone and no
He's like, yeah, of course and they keep it up their ass all
day all day and what I'm not little phones
I mean, we're talking about a decent size iPhone iPhone 11 pro max
Tablet
Yeah, give me an iPad. Yeah, that was that was impressive. Yeah, right? That was impressive
I've heard those stories before but not in that kind of no no no listen. It's uh, it's and I tried I had to ask
I was like you guys. I'm like, let's sit down. Let's talk about this
How how at what point did you put a cell phone up your ass?
I mean, how long did that take do you have to work your way up to a cell phone?
I mean, yeah, it's like, yeah, you practice with it with a bar of soap, you know, and I'm like, wow
That's it. That's incredible. I love soap. Yeah
So you got to practice it until you're kind of comfortable with a bar of soap and then you you know
You work your way up to a cell phone. I said, well, you know, I mean, I don't feel good right now at all
Like I my stomach's upset right now. Just thank you. Well, I mean, I remember I wrote
I posted on Facebook and I said, uh, I guess these guys trouble like, you know
Because they were talking about back on those times
I was talking about they were charging for a carry-on and stuff like that and I said man
You just pay a Puerto Rican and he'll take your logger chop his ass. Yeah
That's brilliant. Yeah. So yeah, they charge your the phone. I mean, it was just one story
And you just got demonetized
Well, can I not show the brand of the phone so you can get maybe some endorsement. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Well, that's a great way to end it man. I appreciate you coming on here
Appreciate you telling your store, man. No man. You're a really good storyteller
Absolutely, I'm at your first Hispanic guest. No, you're not actually boost the Monte. No, we've had we've had
Listen, bro. I had a buddy who's X CIA
He came on super cool guy now. He's done a couple. Yeah a couple
Podcasts on here a bunch. Yeah, well Andrew. He's super super smart. Yeah smart guy. Nice guy cool guy
And he's got some stories. Oh, yeah, some of me can tell some of me can't he's like, well, I can't really talk about this
Absolutely your book yet
You know the whole time I was trying to write it and you know, he kept saying this is what a bunch of these jerk-offs say
No, no, I'm gonna do it myself. I'm gonna do it myself. Stop it. You're not gonna do it yourself
Let's start that. No, no when I come back and when I get never happened
No, never did it never did an outline always was going to even said this a few times
Which kills me when I get out stop. Yeah, you'll never have this much time in your life
You're when you get out you're gonna do it. All right. Stop it
Well the silver lining to all this it's an uphill battle when you get out
You got to walk through a minefield just to stay free and and there's a lot of hoops
You got to jump through but the silver lining in all this is that true crime is the most prop profitable endeavor
Right now. So we go so far. Yeah, you need to write your story. Yeah, because there's a lot more to his story
Yeah, but what's great is how delicious the liquid death liquid death was murder your thirst
And if you are yeah, solid death is a whole different story
Is the way to go cool man. Well, thanks again. No problem in see goodbye world. All right. Hasta maana
