Yeah, I just lost my job off the coronavirus.
Not really because anything happens, but just because everybody just got crazy.
My opinion is big over reaction and to get a little bit more touchy-touchy, I think it's
a bioweapon from the Chinese who didn't like what Trump did to their economy, so I believe
that they did it to us and the world, they didn't let this virus come out.
It's cool to have time to yourself, but to be on lockdown like this isn't because even
if this shit get better in 10 years, they know, okay, they can drop a virus and everyone's
going to be on lockdown.
They can just shut you down instantly, martial law, take over.
And also, what's going on behind the scenes?
We're all focused on these one, maybe like, man, the media is directing the attention
towards Trump and the coronavirus.
Nothing else.
I've kind of been in and in between in my life for a while, so I'm a little bit of an
outlier here, but I definitely feel like a lot of people have cornered themselves in
the sense that they haven't saved any money for situations like this.
Most people can't go more than a couple of weeks without getting paid, so I'm just chilling
man.
I think it's the boomer-remover.
I mean, I see anybody over 60 years old is pretty much a hindrance on progression to
our society.
And, yeah, I know that's ages and that's wrong and everything, but I really don't give a
fuck and I think this should die.
And that's just, it seems like Mother Nature's set the score.
There was a guy that worked at a stamping plant for Chrysler just three miles away from
us and he died.
He was only about, I think, in his mid-40s or something like that.
I mean, it's a really real concern, even for us young people.
Now, I'm in my 20s, but I guess I did think that I was kind of invincible that if I got
it, I'd be out of commission for a week or two, maybe, but it is a messed up thing.
You know, it's impacted our lives in a good way where we're more compact, we're more
focused, we're more willing to learn.
That's it.
You really have to see the good in everything, man.
Right now, it's so overhyped and it's going to die off rather quickly.
The reason that countries like Italy and Spain have such a bad hit population of coronavirus
is because Chinese company, basically, they bought up all the Italian manufacturing.
We can look into this more in depth.
China has shipped over hundreds of thousands of workers to mainly Italy and Spain directly
from Wuhan.
I've realized that the coronavirus hasn't changed my life at all.
I have no friends, I have no family, I have no community.
I sit in my house and I just watch YouTube videos.
The gym is closed and it's really been a cock block.
All the bitches around here are quarantined and can't really get any pussy.
So other than the gym closed and lack of pussy, everything's going good and I'm just chilling
and washing my hands.
Wow!
Like a week ago, I thought it was all just bullshit and it would go away, but it turned
out it's the real deal and just sitting at home, chilling, pretty bored, buying up as
much Bitcoin as I can, masturbating a lot, really bored.
I didn't have a job before Corona hit and I don't have one now.
Perfectly I'm a cable TV guy and our jobs have not closed.
We are still expected to show up to work every day and so expect you to go inside of people's
homes.
Well, a lot of people are sick and it definitely poses a risk to us.
I think there's a lot of other things that we could talk about such as how many people
die driving their cars on a daily basis.
3500 people die every single day in their car and then we look at obesity.
We look at heart failure.
We look at any form of cancer and it's just, it's crazy and the media is creating such
a panic, not a pandemic.
It's really frustrating when I hear other young people talk about it because everybody
has such an individualized idea of it, thinking, oh, I'll be okay.
Well, the ovens around you won't be okay.
I can name five people off the top of my head, friends of mine or people that I know who
have lost their job because of the coronavirus.
They're no longer working, they're no longer making any income, but they still have bills.
So for the economy to prosper in the future, we're going to have to have some sort of plan.
I know it's a nasty sickness because I actually had it, but I got over it.
So there is some danger to it, but I'm very concerned about the way that people are reacting,
how scared they become and that the way that they're reacting is going to have far more
detriment than the actual sickness.
