Hello world! Today's guest is Jamie Rogozinski.
Jamie's the guy who founded the subreddit Wall Street Bets in 2012, which is a large
online community that yields a commanding presence in the world of finance.
Jamie says he never expected for Wall Street Bets to become the force that it is now, with
hordes of amateur investors divvying up stock prices and showdown with Wall Street short
sellers.
His book is called Wall Street Bets, How Boomers Made the World's Biggest Casino for
Millennials. So, without further delay, please enjoy this podcast with Jamie Rogozinski.
All right, Jamie, thank you for doing this and sharing your story and everything with
our audience. I really appreciate it, man.
Yeah, thanks a lot for having me.
Where are you located?
I'm currently in Mexico City. I've been living here for seven years.
Oh, wow. That's amazing, man. What made you want to move there?
It's a wonderful place. I always wanted to come back and live here. I was actually born
here. I lived here until my early teens and then I spent about 20 years in the US. That's
where I studied and started my career. And then an opportunity popped up and I moved back
down here in 2014 and stayed here ever since. I love it. Married from someone that's from
here. My kids are born here. And so, really, see where life takes me next.
I've always heard that Mexico City is one of the most dangerous places in Mexico.
I mean, per capita, it's like being in Chicago, you know, like South Side Chicago. If you
know where you're not supposed to be and you know, you know, you know how to take care
of yourself, it's not a big deal. I haven't had a single incident since I moved down here.
And you know, it's like any other big city, there's crime. I think there's probably more
crime that, you know, if you go closer to the border states of the US where there's a lot
of the drug running back and forth, you get to see a lot more violence here. But the type
of stuff that you see here is just going to be the same type of violence you'll see in
any other big city. So, you know, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not concerned.
Yeah, I'm sure a lot of the stories are just sensationalized by especially the Americans
that just warn you about traveling because I travel down there all the time, especially to
like the Pacific Coast to go on surf trips and stuff. And you know, you always hear people
talking about, but I've always, I've never had a problem just jumping in somebody's car and be
like, Hey man, will you take me like two hours down the beach or whatever? I've never like
personally experienced any kind of crazy shit. That's awesome. Yeah. But anyways,
so you're the guy who started the Wall Street Bets subreddit that like broke Wall Street
and the internet just a couple of months ago. Yep. Yep. That would be me. You're responsible
for that. Well, I mean, I started it. I didn't per se. So first of all, let me just ask you this.
What's up with all the, I mean, all the trolls on YouTube and everywhere else saying like,
this guy's a fraud. This guy didn't start Wall Street Bets. Do your homework. Fuck this guy.
What is all that shit about? Actually, I'm yet to see somebody that says I didn't start Wall
Street Bets. That's the one attack that I haven't seen. I've seen everything else though. I mean,
it does surprise me that I haven't gotten that one. Look, it's, it's, it's, there's a story
behind one. There's a great story behind that. I was removed as a moderator. So I started it in
2012 and I was in charge of that subreddit until April of last year. And some things went down
between me and some other moderators and, and I got removed, right? That particulars to that
story are good. And they're also been sold to a movie studio. So I can't get into those details,
but I can give you all sorts of insights as far as what went down, right? Based off of some public
information that you'd have to kind of scrap together. But the accusation that was leveled
against me was that I sold out the subreddit that I was trying to profit from, right? Which is,
you know, it's a silly argument in and of itself, but, but I did two things that
triggered these accusations. The first one was I wrote a book and I started selling it on, on
Amazon and I was promoting it on Facebook and on Twitter, just like you would any other product.
And, and obviously I also promoted it on Reddit. I did a AMA on that subreddit and I posted a link
on the subreddit. But that's, but saying that I wrote a book to sell out the subreddit is
a bit of a sale. It's a bit of a shallow argument because for starters, I wrote a book, right? If
I wanted to really just kind of make a quick buck, writing a book is not the way to get rich.
I'd be selling t-shirts like the current moderators that are doing just that and have their link on
the side of the subreddit. That's the first part. The second of all, you know, the book itself wasn't
even about the subreddit itself. It's more about the stock market and things. The second thing that
I was accused of was to create a scam competitive day trading competition. So I had this, this vision
last year that since people are starting to treat this thing like a video game, meaning the stock
market, and video games as a whole are just a really up and rising market. And I decided to kind
of merge those two ideas together where we'd have kind of a competition. People would, I'd rent
that out the biggest esports stadium in the U.S. And I was going to have 12 contestants go on there
and actually trade real stocks with real money on the stock market for a couple of days and give a
huge price to whoever won plus whatever he gets to make from the trading competition. Unfortunately,
coronavirus showed up and it shut down the world. It shut down the Olympics, all the sports,
all the traveling, all that. So of course, my idea went down. And the idea, and so I was accused of
trying to scam people from their money there, right? Like they said that I'm going to take their
money for entering the contest or whatever. But that's a silly argument that doesn't really hold
up. It doesn't hold up because I have a lot more to gain by actually doing this than I would from
making a quick box, stealing a couple hundred thousand dollars and then going to jail. And so
that argument is going to fall apart because of course, I had the whole thing tied up and now
I'm putting it back together again. Coronavirus is under control. This thing has only grown. The
attention has only increased the number of people that are in the stock market is only bigger. And
so now I have people in casinos that are competing to try and have this event at their place. And so
sooner than later, I'm actually going to pull this thing off. And so both of those arguments
are going to kind of fall between the cracks. Oh, that's cool, man. So you're still trying to make
that happen. What was I going to say? You sold the rights to the story of the breakup between you
and the guys who are currently in control of it too. Can you tell me which studio you sold it to?
Yeah, it was Rat Pack. It's public. Yeah, it's a big studio. I did hundreds of movies that are
really big. So did they reach out to you like when this whole thing like sort of blew up on the
internet? Yeah, you know, it was actually kind of interesting. I started getting contacted by all
sorts of movie people, you know, producers and writers and directors and studios. And this was
far outside my understanding that Hollywood business is completely foreign to me. And so yeah,
so I started kind of lobbing the calls and everyone was super helpful. One guy even wanted to try and
secure me so bad. He bought a flight to Mexico and he was like, Hey, I'm going to be there. My
flight lands tomorrow morning. You know, I'm going to take you out for some drinks. And we're going
to sign this thing. Right. And I was like, dude, you should have asked me because I'm going to be
out of town this week. So he came down to Mexico and I don't know what he did. But yeah, no. So I
ended up talking to a lot of people, a lot of big names that you'll probably recognize. It worked
on a lot of really prominent movies. A lot of people that ended up signing deals of their own
with movie studios and kind of hearing out their pitch and learning about how it works and the most
promising offer was this one from Rat Pack. So I just went ahead and took it. Now, did those guys
talk to the other guys on the other side of the guys who are running the Reddit thread now?
It is a deep rabbit hole. There's so many people that are running the Reddit thread now. And in
fact, the people that were running the Reddit thread then were different than the ones that
are running it today. And by then, I mean January or February. Yeah, because there continues to be
drama. Some of it related to the original problem and some of it not. But essentially, I was at the
top and then there was in the way that Reddit works is you create a subreddit, you're the top
moderator, and you basically have full control. You can add and remove every moderator below you.
You have full permissions. And as you go adding moderators, you can give them permissions. And
even if you give them full rights so they can do whatever they want, they can't remove anyone that's
above them as a moderator. So if there's ever disagreement, whoever's further up the food chain
is ultimately the one that's in command. And so the group of people that were left there before,
there was some more in fighting. And those guys, the best of my understanding, they did speak to
movie studios. And I don't know if anything happened with that. I think it also had partly
to do with the fact that day two ended up getting removed by now this third group of moderators.
So it's kind of the wild west there. So if you were on the top of the food chain,
how did you end up getting removed? This episode of the podcast is brought to you by
Blue Blocks. For a long time, I've had trouble sleeping through the night. And I literally tried
everything from supplements, smoking pot, meditating. And at the end of the day, all that stuff was
was just a Band-Aid. Blue Blocks actually fixed this problem for me with their super high tech
lenses. Blue light from our phones and computers actually damage our eyes and lead to digital
eye strain. You get symptoms like blurred vision, headaches, and the worst of all, you can't fucking
sleep. Unlike other blue light glasses, Blue Blocks are backed by science and they're made
in an optical laboratory in Australia. Most other blue light blocking companies are mass
producing their shit in China with no understanding of how light impacts health. They have over 40
frames that come in prescription, non-prescription, and even readers. I keep mine literally right
next to my computer all day every day. I even use them on some of the podcasts. The podcast that I
do late at night, I always use these. You can actually wear these things and knock like a freaking
geek. Do I look cute? Get your energy back, sleep better, and block out all that unhealthy
blue light with Blue Blocks. Get 20% off by going to blueblocks.com slash concrete. B-L-U-B-L-O-X
dot com slash K-O-N-C-R-E-T-E for 20% off or just use the code concrete at checkout.
Those rates belong to Rat Pack. No, they did a very good job. It was a complicated situation
and they effectively managed to overthrow me. They got Reddit involved and Reddit decided to
pull the plug and that's how they did it. Wow. And they did it twice. They did it again with the
other guys too. No fucking way. That's pretty bonkers, man. It's such a fucking wild story.
And you were like everywhere in the media. You're getting interviewed by Cuomo.
He's all geeked up on there talking to you, like asking you all these crazy questions.
Yeah. It's crazy about TV is like, you can't really see them. And so, you know, you try to kind
of make a joke or crack whatever. You can't, you don't get that corporal language. So, I mean,
it's a little joke with Cuomo because he's just finished roasting Vlad Atenev, the CEO of Robinhood
for, you know, stopping the trees or whatever. And so he was really mean to him. So I was like,
hey, I'm new to this. Can you be nice to me? And it was just radio silence and I couldn't
see his facial expression and he just kind of kept going with his questions. I'm like, I guess not.
That shit was so insane. He looked like a fucking robot. His eyes are like about to bust out of his
skull the way he was looking at. He was insane. So when you first created this Reddit thread,
what year was it? 2012. 2012. And what were you doing then? Like what sparked you to want to
create a subreddit? And did you have any idea that it would become as popular as it did?
No, I don't think anyone can imagine that it would have grown the way that it did. But look,
I meant in my early 30s at the time I was single, no kids, no dependents. I was working at a bank,
making very good money. And so I had my typical retirement fund or whatever, but I had extra
money left over, which I wasn't afraid to lose. And so I decided to start throwing it into the
stock market, started learning some more about it, decided to get more aggressive. There's ways to
get really, really aggressive with the stocks. And I said, you know, this is worth a shot. If I
can take these couple thousand dollars a month that I can throw at this thing and lose it, that's
fine. And if I make a ton of money and I become a gazillionaire, then that's even better. So let's
give it a shot. And I couldn't find any place that online where people were willing to do that.
There's there's conservative forums where they're like, you have to diversify and you have to put
your portfolio into a thing with low commissions. And then you have some real professional day
traders that are really technical and it's a profession and they're really good at it. And
that's the ones that are looking at like the chart patterns and whatnot. But they wake up in the
morning, they have this routine, they study the stocks, they read the news, I don't know what they
do, but that's their nine to five or whatever. But I was looking for just having fun. Like,
I think Netflix is going to go up or I think Facebook is going to beat expectations with
the quarterly and and not finding a place like that I just created. And obviously,
it was a huge demand because it just grew by itself and doubled every year in size.
Yeah. Now, like, so you were just like getting into actively trading stocks. So you were like
putting your money in there and you were trying to where you like, what you call day trading,
where you like buy, you're buying and selling shit every single day. Like, I don't know,
fucking shit about stocks. Like, I'm like, yeah, talk to me like I'm a fifth grader.
Yeah. So I think, you know, it starts, it starts off slow, right? It starts off. All right. You
see the news and you see, oh, Google's going up a lot because they're going to start creating an
Android telephone. It's going to compete with the iPhone and blah, blah, blah. And you're
like, all right, cool. I think that's going to make some money. And so you go ahead and you put
that money into Google and then you just kind of watch it and it doesn't go up as far and you
kind of get a little desperate. You're like, come on, this is supposed to be the Android phone.
It's supposed to take over the world. Why is the stock not going up like crazy? So then I take the
money out after a couple of days and then I'd see the stock just shoot up after I got out of that
trade. I'm like, all right, all right, let's take a different look. Had I bet it, had I about the
stock at the right moment, that would have done better. There has to be a better technique.
And so it starts by, I have a good idea because I like the company and then realizing, well,
shit, like they, they've Google has been announcing this Android phone for years.
Why would it just go up on a random Tuesday when I decided to invest it in, right? I guess that
makes sense just because I found out about it doesn't mean that the stock's going to go up on
that particular day. And so that kind of leads me to doing shorter and shorter trades. And so
they have something called swing trading. And that's usually something where you buy the stock and
you hold it for a couple of days. And then you have day trading, which is you buy the stock and
you sell it that same day. And then I discovered stock options, right? So stocks go up and down
and you can pretty much bet if you think they're going to go up, you buy the stock. And if you
think it's going to go down, you do something called short sell. But you get a one to one,
if you have a hundred bucks and the stock goes up 5%, you make five bucks. Stock options all of a
sudden cross my table and I'm like, Oh, wait a second, this things are leveraged, meaning
with that same hundred bucks, if the stock goes up 5%, I can make 500%. I can make 500 bucks.
That sounds pretty attractive. And because they swing so violently, you definitely just want
to be in there and out really quickly. So I made this little journey, which I'm guessing a lot of
people do buying stock options, buying like put like, like betting on whether it's going to go
up or down, right? Yep. Now, can you explain that a little bit dumber for me? I still don't
quite, I mean, I've had a million people try to explain these stock options. I've watched all the
infographic videos on YouTube, all the crash course videos, and it still seems very fucking
confusing. Here's the deal. I learned something from Robin Hood and their ability to simplify
really complicated things. Stock options can be very complicated. There's people that have written
their PhDs on how those things work. There's mathematical equations that are, you know,
from different differential equations with very, very sophisticated and difficult to understand
concepts. And I'm guessing that the stuff that you saw, we're trying to dumb those concepts down.
Robin Hood does something magical, which is like, well, you think the stock's going to go up,
you buy calls, and then Robin is cool because you can answer with like an arrow that points up and
it's colored green, right? Or you think the stock's going to go down, you buy the put calls and you
answer with the red arrow. That's pretty much, in the essence, what the stock options are. If you
decide to buy a stock option, you're essentially buying 100 shares of that stock, right? I'm simplifying
this grotesquely. But for all intents and purposes, that's all you really need to know. If you think
Facebook's going to go up, you go out there and you buy a call option. And under various scenarios,
if Facebook goes up by $1 because you own 100 shares of it or control 100 shares,
it can go up by $100. And this call option, instead of costing the full price of the 100 shares,
it costs significantly less. So if I were to guess right now, a call option for Facebook is
probably 300 bucks, right? So you buy one call, you put $300 in there, and that thing's going to
control about 100 shares. And the price of Facebook is also about $300. So you can either buy one
share or buy 100 shares for that same 300 bucks. That's all that really people need to know. And
that's a lot of how people really use them. They can be so much cooler than that. And they are much
more complicated. But that's all that the people that you see making millions of dollars, that's
all they're really doing, right? Now, that's the same thing that the big hedge funds were doing
with GameStop, right? They were buying puts on. They had like billions of dollars tied up and
puts for on GameStop. Is that how is that accurate? Yes and no. So the people that the funds that
lost money were actually short the stock. Unlike the people that are on Wall Street Bets or a lot
of these guys that are using Robinhood that are just retail traders and they have a few hundred
bucks or a few thousand bucks to throw at it, hedge funds have millions or billions of dollars.
And so they don't need that there are some trade offs when you use stock options. It's not all
fun and games. You can lose a lot of money. And if you have the money to buy the hundred shares,
you're better off buying the hundred shares and you are with buying the call. The call only helps
you when you're broke, right? And you're really just trying to get rich. So the hedge funds don't
need to use that. The ones to be the headlines, they were actually short the stock. So they went
there and they bet that the shares would go down. And so those are the guys that you see in the news.
But you're not entirely wrong in that there is a third participant that almost nobody talks about,
which is the participants in the options market. Every time that you buy a call, somebody has
to sell it to you. And every time you buy a put, somebody has to sell that to you too. Most of the
time, the people that sell it to you are also hedge funds. And most of the time, those hedge funds
that sell you those calls or puts, they don't care if the stock goes up or down. They make money,
let's call it a commission or a fee, whenever they sell you that call option, that pull option.
And they have ways of not carrying if the stock goes up or down, and then they have to pay you
off if you ended up making money or whatever. They have ways to staying what's called delta neutral.
And the mechanics of how that way of staying delta neutral also helped the entire movement
to push the price of the stock up. So they don't care. The ones that sell you the calls and the
puts, they don't care if the stock goes up or down. The hedge funds, they were straight up
short the stock. They said, I'm going to short this thing. And the reason why they were short the
stock is stock options have like an expiration date. So if you're not right by a certain date,
you lose all your money. So the hedge funds have the luxury of saying, well, I don't know when
game stops going to go down, but it's going to go down eventually. So I might as well not put
an expiration date on it. Do you think the purpose of making all this shit so confusing
is just so they could manipulate it however they fucking want and make all the money they want
without getting in trouble? It is. But you know, that's the beauty of it. I think that's the reason
why this thing made so much news is because retail traders for their cell phones were able to pull
the pants down on the complexity. It can be complicated. If you want me to really explain
the nitty gritties of it, like I'll put you to sleep. But it's as easy as answering with that
red arrow or that green arrow from your Robinhood account. Like that's all that they needed to do
to realize, oh, okay, all I need to do is take the opposite side of the trade. You think it's
going to suck. You think game stop is going to go out of business because of coronavirus or whatever
because they're outdated. That's fine. I believe that you're wrong. And I'm just going to take the
other side of the trade. And behind the scenes, there's all this complex shit that nobody understands,
but they don't really need to understand. And that's, that's the beauty of this. They prove the
fact that you don't need to have your certification, your CFA certification or your master's in finance
or whatever. You can just have to answer with the button with the green one or the red one.
Right. That's what Robinhood did, right? They added, they made it a little bit more
transparent for like the everyday people to be able to play the game. But I'm, I, I'm talking
about like originally like the people on Wall Street, they initially wanted it to be super,
super complicated by using all these crazy fucking words and terms and, and all this stuff
just so normal people wouldn't be able to understand it before Robinhood, before shit like
Robinhood or before the internet even could be. I mean, I think that kind of that's just, I think
it's effective. Like I'm currently getting into crypto and that's how I feel about that.
There's, they have their own lingo. They have their own kind of culture. You don't necessarily feel
welcome right away. And, you know, in the previous life, I was a volunteer firefighter. And when I
started doing that stuff, they had their own culture and their own lingo and their own ways
of trying to fit in. Everyone likes to have their little club. And I think that's just kind of like
a fact of life. If you have, if you like a sports team, for example, you know, you're going to wear
those colors and you're going to know particular stats or whatever. And it's, it's, it's kind of a
part of belonging to some community that, that it kind of goes with the flow. But as far as the
complexity is concerned, it really isn't. So you're just now starting to get into crypto recently?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've been following crypto forever. Bitcoin started around the same time
of Wall Street Betsy. And I was like, Oh, this is kind of a cool concept, you know, academics
idea behind this, like you're going to make a currency this medium of exchange of goods and
services. It has all the properties of money, you know, the Bitcoin, it's going to have what do
you call it? It's going to have a cap is that it's going to have scarcity, which is one of the
components of money. It's difficult to destroy. That's another component of money. So yeah, why
not? And I followed it along and I didn't really get into it because there was a lot of execution
and efficiencies behind there. If you wanted to do it to get into Bitcoin back then you really had
to devote some time into it. Then as it became easier, if I wanted to get into Bitcoin, then it
was still the execution was still not to my liking as far as how long it takes to settle
this things with the spreads between the bid and the ask, and there was, you know, the fees between
them. But the market matured a lot and it has exploded to the point where it's undeniable. You
have crypto spilling into Wall Street and you have Wall Street spilling into crypto. And
and it's inevitable that those two things are going to end up getting married. You have
Bitcoin futures on the Chicago Board of Exchange. You have Coinbase going public,
which is symbolic, but it's still it's still further evidence that it's a legitimate
universe. And then you have stocks that you can now start buying through cryptos and that the
calm synthetic stocks you want to buy Tesla, for example, it's difficult or inaccessible to a lot
of the people around the world. But now they can just buy a token and then somebody else behind
the scenes goes and buys the share. And then those two prices basically match what you would. So
those those universes are marrying. And I'm super excited about the possibilities.
Do you think the government's ever going to try to regulate crypto?
Yeah, they do already. Every time like, so I create a wallet, it's like, all right,
you want to wallet? Sure, here's your address. Be happy being anonymous. I'm like, Oh,
this is pretty cool. Now I want to buy something with this, right? Or it's simple like being here
in Mexico. I'm like, Okay, this one allows me to take my Bitcoin and put it into pesos into
my bank account. So I download this app and says, All right, good, congratulations, you have this
thing will deposit in your account. You can do 200 bucks a month $200 a month from your from your
broker to your bank. And I'm like, Well, that's not very much money. So there's a button that says,
Okay, you want to put more money, tell us more about yourself, put a picture of your ID, you
want more money? Sure, tell us like the sources of income, sure, you want more money, tell us
your social security number, the equivalent here. So the more and more that I want to
participate with this, the more and more the government gets involved with it. So I think
and that's the same as the US like the closer you get that internet money to a brick and mortar
bank, the more the government gets involved. And so I think that they're, they've done a
decent job with it. And I think they'll continue doing it because there's a lot of
innovation taking place and it takes place really rapidly. And so most likely the government's
going to want to regulate and with good reasons, I don't think regulation is always a bad thing
necessarily. What do you think though, about like the government's ability to print money and inject
it into the economy and the FDA with all the inflation and deflation and all of that stuff?
Like how do you think the future of crypto is going to affect the financial world as we know it
in that aspect? I think it's going to live side by side. It's never going to take it over. It's
language. When Bitcoin started, this was fresh right out, right, right out of the financial crisis
with the Occupy Wall Street movement. So a lot of language was like, screw the Fed and their
printing money and inflation and the manipulation or whatever. We're going to take them down,
make them obsolete. It's cute, but it's not going to happen ever. There's just too much
on the other side and too much power on the other side, but they can live side by side and they can
complement each other very well. I think crypto can push mainstream banking into being more
competitive, just like Robinhood forced normal brokers to be free and also more competitive.
Bitcoin is going to make it so that if you want to transfer funds internationally,
it's much faster, easier and cheaper than what the banks offer. If you want to settle,
if I want to check in at cash right now, if I want to clear a check, it takes three days for the
bank to settle it and then people say, well, but if you have good credit, the bank will lend you
money. It's like, I don't want to borrow money. I want this check to have the funds from that
account now. And so the more people go towards crypto to get around these inefficiencies, the
more banks are going to have to get their act together. With regards to the macroeconomics of
this, like the Fed printing money, I'm not too worried about that. Not nearly as worried as
other naysayers out there. The US government is in a unique position right now to be able
to print whatever they want without having to worry about anything because the US dollar is
a de facto currency around the world. With regards to the Fed printing money, I'm not worried about
it because the US has an advantage that they can print as much money as they want to with very
little consequence as long as it's the de facto currency. The day that changes, that's when the
game stops. The music stops and you can no longer do that. But for the time being, and for as long
as for recent history, they've been able to pull it off and they do it because they can and it
stimulates the economy. And I buy both sides of the equation. I'm not too married to one side or the
other. I keep seeing these, whatever they are, headlines or memes, I don't know how accurate
they are of people claiming that, and I could be fucking these numbers up, but it was like
something to the effect of like 90% of the money printed in the United States was printed in the
last year or something. It's probably not 90, but it's like 50%. Have you seen that?
I've seen charts of that. It's insane. It's crazy. But what we've seen this year,
this is a black swan year. It's not a typical year that you get to see. What we saw,
what we lived this past year is unprecedented on every possible scale imaginable. The fact that
you've shut down a world economy, you literally stopped from physical movement between countries
is an experiment that had never been done before. And it was a drastic measure taken by the world.
And the US government had the luxury and they decided it wasn't everyone's best interest to
just print their problems away. I would argue, I get to see this from Mexico where I saw the
exact opposite. Instead of increasing spending, they decided to take the austerity route,
tighten things up, close down the spending and things of that nature. And it worked horribly.
It's seeing the two approaches towards dealing with this massive problem. I definitely think it
was the lesser of the two evils to do what the US did than the opposite.
What was it like living in Mexico during all of this?
Well, the same as it was everywhere else. You're at home. You don't leave. You get to read the news.
I have three year old kids and that was a super challenge, especially if I'm trying to get anything
done. I'm like, all right, I'll just work from home. Yeah, right. You don't work from home with
kids in the house. That's the biggest myth ever. I think school closings is probably the most
disruptive thing to an economy than anything else. But you know, it's what it is that the
country closed everything down. They're slowly opening things back up. They have the measures
that check your temperature before you go into places and wear your little mask and whatever.
It is what it is. But it did knock out a lot of businesses. There's a part of town that is
just a really nice part of town. A lot of nice restaurants, a lot of nice stores.
It's a great place to just spend a Saturday or a Sunday just walking around.
And I go back there and a lot of the stores are closed permanently. And these are big
name brand stores or big chain restaurants. And so it is more palpable what the destruction
to the economy was like. But for the most part, I'm guessing it's the same as anywhere else in the
world. Yeah, well, the craziest thing that really pissed people off here, I'm in Florida, is that
a lot of the mom and pop stores got shut down. A lot of the quote unquote essential businesses
like restaurants and cafes or or or little clothing stores got shut down. But Burger King
and McDonald's are all open and Walmart's are all open and stuff like that. Was it like that?
That all there? Are there any kind of like big chains places that I have no fucking clue?
What? It is sad because that's the problem. The people that have the money to withstand
a closure like they're the only ones to survive. Mama pops. They required that constant activity
in order to make to make ends meet. And it's the big chains that have the money left over
that can afford to survive. And so that is kind of a sad thing worldwide.
Some of the big chains that get closed down here is because like this part of town is super
expensive. And so unless you're open for business, it's just does not pay off like it's too expensive
to pay the rent there. But you had you had private businesses kind of step up to the plate
because the government here was being so austere. American Express, for example, started on their
own a program to kind of stimulate the mama pops. And so they gave a list of merchants that you
could go to and they would give you, you know, five, 10 bucks for free, you know, a small but
symbolic purchase that also encouraged people to go to these stores. And that was and that
that contribution was on their dime. They said, look, we're going to help the small ones. If you
go to this bread store or if you go to that taco shop or whatever, we'll front you five bucks.
And that's on us. And so the store is kind of appreciated that obviously the consumers appreciated
that. And that's kind of the beauty of flea markets is the even even the private industries
want everyone to survive. That's really cool. I think I think American Express does that did
that here to an extent as well. Oh, cool. So when it comes back to crypto, when it comes to crypto,
like, I don't need to necessarily understand how everything works, what everything's called,
I don't need to understand how electricity works, be able to flip the switch and the light bulb.
So like, what are you doing in crypto? Like, what are you buying in crypto? And like, what
is your strategy? Are you doing like long term? Are you buying and selling every day? Like, what
are you doing? No, and I definitely know what you're talking about. We're not wanting to know
how everything works because it is you get sucked into that world. And it's like, I really don't
care to know half those terms mean I literally just want to get involved. And that's it.
What I'm doing with crypto right now is I'm actually trying to bridge the two worlds together.
It took me two full days to buy this one particular type of coin, and I'm not a dumb
individual. I can work my way around technology with ease. I understand the concepts very well.
Clearly, I understand market and trading and things like that. And it still wasn't prohibitively
difficult for me involved. And I've learned about all the possibilities. And so I'm like,
why in the world is this thing so hard? And why in the world are all these possibilities and all
these cool things you can do with them, not mainstream? And I think that the answer those
things answer each other. And so the thing that I'm working with right now, I'm not necessarily
investing in one particular coin or the other. I'm in the process of creating a, I don't know if
you know what an ETF is, but it's like a basket of stocks. And so if you take, for example, the
S&P 500 or the NASDAQ, it's the number they show every day on CNBC, that number is basically taking
500 different stocks and adding it all together with a special formula. And that's how they say,
oh, the stock market's up and it's bad, or it's down. And it's diversified. So it's got a little
tech, it's got a little bit of healthcare, it's got a little bit of everything. And so if you
want it to be an investor that you really don't kiddle or anything, you say, I want to buy the
S&P 500 because it has 500 different companies, and they're all over the place. And I don't have
to ever think about this again. And so you can do that, you go on, you buy a share. It's called
SPI, that's the ticker symbol for it. And that share, basically behind the scenes, they go out and
they buy everything for you. And it makes everything really easy. What I'm creating right now are the
same products for real stocks in the crypto world. So this means if you want to buy, and I'm putting
a community aspect of it, if you want to buy some gold, because you think gold's going to go up,
you're worried about inflation, you like Tesla because you like the cars or you like Elon Musk,
you like Samsung, because you have the phone. But they're in Korea, mind you, they don't trade in
the US. And you want some Bitcoin because people are talking about it, that also doesn't trade on
the stock exchange. And you want to buy whatever, some other real estate. If you want to do all
those things, it's like, how do I even start? I don't feel like learning these things. We're
creating this coin, this type of coin that is token that goes out and buys all that stuff for
you. And so you just buy this thing once. And if you write about what you want it to do, then
you make money or lose money or whatever. And it's got a Wall Street Bets kind of feel to it.
And it's called the Wall Street Bets DAP. And so it involves all the coins. So I know that's
probably not the answer you were looking for. But through the community, I'm going to let them
tell me what to invest in. If the community says, we want to Ethereum and Bitcoin and
whatever Dogecoin, and I can't even name half the coins in there, and we want to buy Apple,
then they can do that package together into this little stock that I can buy. And then I'll just
buy that stock. And that's how I'll get involved. And they'll make it easy to do that so that I
don't have to learn about all these crypto wallet things that I have to put into my safe and blah,
blah, blah, you know, I can do that if I want, but I want to be able to just click three times.
And just like with Robin Hood, just click the up arrow and then call it a day.
So this is like an ETF for everything, for stocks, for gold, for crypto.
And it's using, look, because it's undeniable that the crypto technology kicks ass, like it's cool,
right? And they've proven that it's cool because it's survived for so long. They
haven't been able to break it yet. And it's decentralized. So that just means that they
can't turn it off. The government gets mad. They can't just ask Amazon to shut off the server
for it. So it's resilient, right? So it lives everywhere. It lives in this ominous cloud.
And it's decentralized so that it's in the hands literally of the community. And then,
but you put all the mechanisms in place. And that's exactly what you get. You get an ETF
that the community decides on how they can have 10 ETFs, they can have like the YOLO,
I'm going to go crazy, all or nothing bet. You can have the Warren Buffett ETF, which is like the
boring, whatever, slow and steady dividend collecting, whatever. And then you can put
everything into this ETF, absolutely everything in use the blockchain technology to make it secure,
just like everyone loves it. And behind the scenes, we're buying up all these underlying things. So
it's actually, it's called collateralized. That means that this little thing that you own represents
something else, just like when a lot of people own gold, but they don't physically have the
bullions in their basement, they have little certificates that says, well, this is redeemable
for one bar of gold. Well, these little certificates are redeemable for a little gold,
a little stock, a little bit of crypto, a little bit of everything else.
So how do people know that this is like, all this stuff is legit, or these tokens that they're
buying that this ETF you're talking about, like, how do you know that this shit is actually redeemable
and what makes it legit? One of the things I most like about crypto is how paranoid they are.
Well, it's annoying sometimes, right? But it makes me comforted because so many people are
paranoid, and it's all audited, and it's all auditable, and it's all open source, and it's all
uber transparent. It's even more transparent, like, I don't know why I keep bringing up Robinhood,
but when you buy the stocks on Robinhood, all these things happen behind the scene, it goes to the
payment for a full company, and that goes to the exchange, and that goes to the clearinghouse,
and they have to put up the settlement dates in the collateral, all these things happen
after you click your little arrow, right, that are complicated. In the crypto world, it's all
out there on the internet. You can see exactly where your coin is and how that money,
and you can trace the path all the way to the exchange and see that what you said is actually
real. So it's a combination between trying to reach the laymen's like myself, say, hey, just trust
me, this is actually what happens, right, because some people just don't have time. But then you
have the technical side of people who are like, no, no, no, I don't trust you. I want to see it for
myself. Well, it's all out there. Go read it. And if you understand how to do programming stuff,
you'll see for yourself. So is this available right now, or is this something that you're
developing? We launched, so it's kind of two stages. The first thing that we do is we launch
these tokens. And so people buy these tokens, and that happened last week, they can find it on
wsbdapp.com. And that's all the instructions. Once you buy the tokens, right, you're technically
like a shareholder in this Wall Street bets organization or fund or whatever. And then we
start creating these ETPs. And this summer, we're going to start launching the first
rounds of these ETPs. The community is going to come together. They're going to basically upvote
just the way they're going to harness the power of the community to say, okay, guys, what do you
think if we put it all into Bitcoin, and that's it, we're not going to put anything else, or if
we're going to do some really sophisticated thing. And this is why I think I'm right. Then everyone
kind of votes and you vote with your shares with these tokens that you're purchasing. So if I have
100 tokens, I have 100 votes. And then everyone collectively does it. The interesting thing about
that is there's studies that have come out that have analyzed the subreddit Wall Street bets
for their stock picks. And they've, I mean, but this is like a graduate level study with math
and graphs and all these things 50 pages long. And they concluded that Wall Street bets is better
at picking stocks than the general stock market that they actually beat the market. They're an
effective hedge fund or a heck effective investment bank. And that's promising. And that makes sense
because people collectively tend to be really smart. You have some dumb people that just follow,
you have some really smart people with really good ideas, those ideas get more visibility. And so if
we take a big community and all these guys that are buying these tokens, they all create these,
and you can create one ETF that's like I said earlier, the YOLO, you can create just crypto,
you can create the whatever. And then people, whether or not they're involved with this
organization with this fund, anyone can buy it. So if you say, look, I don't want to get into
crypto, I don't really care to buy your WSB token, you could just wait for these products to come
out this summer. And you can see, hey, there's three of them, there's the high risk, low risk and
medium risk, you're like, I just want the middle risk, right? And so you can just buy that directly
and not have to worry about it. That's pretty fucking incredible, man. Yeah. So you started
this or are you just like advising them or how involved are you in this?
I came out as an advisor because I don't know anything about crypto. I didn't even know this
was possible, right? So people have been reaching out to me for years wanting to do crypto stuff
and also wanting to do ETF stuff on the stock. So let's make a watch for Betsy ETF.
And I've said no to all of them and it's because they're uninteresting and I don't really care
very much for what they're going to contribute back to society. This one came across and at
first I said, I straight up said no to them. I'm like, I don't do crypto stuff. I'm like, no, no,
hear me out. This is not your typical crypto. And then I got really freaking excited because
you're right. This is not your typical crypto. We don't even care about the price of the coin per
say a lot of people buy Dogecoin because they want it to go up. They want to make a lot of money.
To be frank, to me, I don't care as much what the price of the coin is as much as how many people
are getting involved because I want a lot of people to vote on these ETFs to revolutionize it.
Like I said earlier, these worlds are merging, Wall Street and crypto are merging.
The potential is massive. It's huge. I mean, think about the fact that I cannot buy Samsung
right now because I can't because I'm in Mexico or the US and people in India can't buy Tesla
for the same reason. And I can't buy, or if I was a crypto guy, I can't buy a mortgage-backed
security. But now you can with one click of a single button, making it so easy to marry those
two worlds where they're already going anyways. So they brought me on basically as kind of a
bridge. They're all crypto people. I'm only Wall Street. You're the perfect dude. You know,
just enough about crypto, right? You're not going to get sucked into this world so that you can
understand how these hash functions work. You can just continue to speak the language that you speak
and you can help attract crypto people towards buying stocks or mixing them and you can buy,
you can get normal stock equities or whatever people to get into crypto as well.
Wow. This is definitely the first time this has ever been done, right?
Yeah. There's nothing that's ever been done like this. The proof of concept is there.
Like I said, there's an exchange that allows you to buy just a share of Tesla. So they did
it with Tesla. So it's done, right? Once you prove that you can do that, then it's doable.
There are challenges that need to be overcome. You can't get right into these mortgage-backed
securities. There's a set of steps that we need to get to before we get there. But right off the
starting gate, we can start with crypto and we can start with a lot of these stocks. And very
shortly after that, because ETFs are part of stocks, through ETFs, you can get all sorts of other
stuff and then as those challenges get ironed out. But nobody's done it collectively like this
with the vision of marrying crypto with Wall Street, with the further vision of democratizing
finance for just about anywhere, anyone anywhere. Is there a subreddit for this thing?
I think there is. I haven't been on reddit. Like I got butt hurt after I got kicked out. Am I going
to lie to you? So you uninstalled your Reddit app? Yeah, I uninstalled my Reddit app. I'll
occasionally go on Wall Street bets, but mainly because people direct me through a particular
post. I do kind of like to have an idea of what's taking place. It was unavoidable
when the GameStop was taking place, obviously. So I don't know. I'm 99% sure there is a subreddit
for it. It's probably going to be WSB DAP, is my guess. I know that's their Twitter account,
so I'm guessing that they link to it there. Now, there was no issue with you using WSB.
Like they didn't trademark that. You can't use Wall Street bets anymore, Jamie.
No, I own the trademark too. Oh, you do. It's mine. The whole thing is mine. People that are
saying that I'm taking the name Wall Street bets for personal games can go fuck themselves because
it's mine. Like I created the name. I did all these things with it. Like there's no other person
that should be allowed to. Now, I'll be open about also saying like I don't mind if other people use
that stuff too. I've noticed there's Wall Street silver and there's the Hatoshi Street bets and
there's like a Wall Street bets on Instagram and I'll take like let everybody be Wall Street best.
As far as I'm concerned, it's an idea. I don't own it. Like they get mad because they say I'm
out there speaking on behalf of that subreddit community. I'm not speaking on behalf of anybody.
Like Wall Street bets is bigger than me and it's bigger than anyone else. It's an idea. So let
everybody use it. But I do own the trademark, so they can't really stop me from doing it.
That's beautiful, man. Yeah, that's pretty great. I love that. So
my basic understanding and maybe you can kind of like educate me a little bit better on the stock
part of this. But my only understanding of the stock market is I read a book. I read a Tony
Robbins book a couple years ago and it basically said if you don't want to understand, if you
don't have the time or patience to understand everything about stocks, just buy the S&P 500 and
invest X amount of dollars and then every single month the rest of your life and you'll be a millionaire
by the time you're 50 or 60 or 70 or whatever it may be. So that's all I do when it comes to the
stock market. I just buy like one share a month on the S&P 500. Am I an idiot or am I doing something?
No, not at all. You're doing it perfectly. That's exactly what I was saying earlier. Like if you
don't have the time or interest or whatever, then that's the exact example that I use because it's
such a good example and it's a very good approach. With the stock market, you can do,
there's a spectrum. You can do crazy yolo gambling where you do all or nothing best and you can
quite literally take $1,000 and turn it into $100,000 in one day or in two days and it happens
more frequently than you'd imagine. And then on the other side of the spectrum,
you have this diversified, slow dividend collecting, low fee ETF or investment that
pretty much just keeps up with inflation, right? Because inflation is not a thing that we're going
to get rid of either. So if you put your money in stocks and the dollar, the value of the dollar
goes down, then you don't lose whatever savings you have because your dollar amount goes up on
par. Those are the two extremes. Those two exist and the idea is where do you want to be on the
spectrum? I personally also do that. That's where my retirement is and I throw my money into the
stocks on a very regular basis and the stocks go down and I keep buying it and the stocks go back
up and I keep buying it and that's it. That's how I'm going to retire. I also like to do both.
I do the S&P 500 and I throw a little bit in there in tech because if you see what it like,
I saw a great tweet by someone that said, what was it, 20 years ago, the top companies in the
S&P 500, sorry, this was by Berkshire Hathaway. In fact, this was from Warren Buffett's company.
It wasn't in the S&P 500, at least I don't think anymore. It was just the biggest companies in
the world and it's a list of 20 and you can see like the bank of Japan, the bank of this, the bank
of that, this bank, Sakimura, whatever. At the top 20 companies were almost all banks and now
the biggest companies in the world is Facebook, Apple, Google, Tesla. It's all tech companies
and so there is a kind of a shift that's going towards tech and the fact that you had banks
previously take that top spot is mainly because they control a lot of money. Money makes a lot
of money so it makes sense that money, with a lot of money, you're at the top but now tech is
getting into the banking industry. You have this whole fintech industry where you can now get credit
cards to pretty much all these tech companies and they're starting to do crypto stuff and so
I lean a little heavier towards the tech so I have both an Aztec and the S&P.
Is it Facebook getting its ass kicked right now by Google? There's like a big war between Facebook
and Google right now and do you stay up to date with any of that stuff? Of course, yeah, no,
I'm very up to date with everything but these questions can be shallow or very deeply philosophical.
They don't do the same stuff like Facebook is a social network at heart. They collect
information, they put out ads and they're very effective with doing that. That's kind of their
business model. They have a huge audience and Google has, Google's a little bit of everything.
For starters, they have the search engine so it's kind of like the portal to the internet.
That's probably their bread and butter but then there are everything else there and
artificial intelligence, they have phones, they have hardware like they're doing cars,
they're doing, you name it, they're getting into it so they don't directly compete with each other.
The Google tried several times to get into the social network and they failed miserably every
time trying to take on Facebook so they just gave that up and they're no longer going to try doing
that anymore so I don't know that they compete. They'll overlap sometimes but they're different.
I'm sorry, I was just reading an article in the New York Times. I think it was about Apple
versus Facebook where Facebook didn't want, Apple's going to put some sort of technology
update in their phones where they can opt out of, they can opt out of Facebook,
tracking them from app to app and Facebook's pissed off because they want to be able to do that
because they say that's how they can most effectively market to people is that they can
follow them from app to app. Yeah, it's pretty crazy because like you're kind of at the mercy.
I guess let's call it, let's call Facebook an app for now. Facebook is at the mercy of Apple.
We saw, what was it with Fortnite? It's a video game that was really popular and they got in a
scuffle with Apple because of money and Apple decided to take them off of their
the play store. You can't use Fortnite on your phone anymore. They have the ultimate say,
they're like, sorry, just in terms of service, we decided we're the gatekeepers so sorry about
your luck. The companies have to kind of play this game where they're like, all right, fine,
we'll comply with your service because we have to, you know, Apple has half the market out there
and can't try to piss them off. But yeah, they're going out of each other. So Apple's making all
sorts of things to try and create privacy, conscious, you know, they're trying to protect
privacy. That's kind of kind of their latest direction. They're taking things in and Facebook's
model relies on no privacy. So they are kind of crashing a little bit in that regards.
So, you know, we'll see how it plays out. Facebook, even though it's the mercy of Apple,
is still extremely powerful because people are just as married to Facebook as they are to their
iPhone. So I'm guessing that they're all using that as a bargaining chip. They're like, fine,
don't put Facebook on your phone. See how many people drop iPhone and then people with the iPhone
say, fine, I'm not gonna put Facebook on my phone and see how many people drop Facebook. So we'll
see what happens probably somewhere in the middle. They'll negotiate some middle, middle route, maybe
some more little agreements. You have to check. Yes, I agree. I don't know. They'll solve it.
I don't think it's gonna be a big issue. But news like this, I mean,
it must affect the stocks of each of those companies. I mean, personally, my outsider
perspective is that like, I can't see the future of Facebook being that bright because I don't
personally don't know many people that use Facebook that are under the age of 50. And it just seems
like Facebook is just this crazy message board of outrage and old people fighting about politics.
Yeah. And I agree with you. I haven't been on Facebook effectively for about a decade. I got on
there shortly after I got married several years ago to put pictures on my wedding so that my
friends could see what they looked like. And I locked in, put the pictures locked back out,
haven't been back in there since. So I feel you with that one. I think that any,
the nature of social networks as a whole is whatever's in style. Snapchat was real big for
a while. I haven't heard a lot of buzz on that anymore. It seems to be TikTok's the big one
nowadays. There was one that was, what was the one that was also videos, the short videos, Vine.
And lasted for a little while. That was super cool. But that came and went really quickly.
So it's the nature of the beast. So whoever's in charge of the social network, Twitter,
obviously, Instagram, they'll be changing. And I agree with you. But the Facebook does
have an advantage, which is they have a lot of users and a lot of active users. Just because
you or I don't use it or know people that do use it. Sorry, we do know people that use it.
There are mom and dads, right? Like there are uncles. But just because we don't interact doesn't
mean that there's a lot of potential there. The fact is that Facebook has so much information.
The mere fact that you downloaded the app on your phone and you have it and it's tracking you,
like Facebook knows things. And with that knowledge, they can do stuff with it and turn that
into money magically. They do still have a ton of power with the ability to target advertising,
with the ability of target demographics. Google has that same ability. I think that Facebook does
need to innovate. And although their big bread and butter is their original platform, that's
probably why they buy up Instagram and I think they bought Snapchat at some point.
That's their effort to try and stay on top, just buy whichever one is popular at the time.
We'll see what happens. But I agree. I don't know that they have a promising future,
but their present is very promising. Random question. How often do you travel in and out of
Mexico? Well, during the pandemic, not at all. But now, frequently, I was there a couple weeks
ago. I'll be there this weekend in the US. I mean, I go there frequently.
Do you have to deal with getting a test? Do you have to get the COVID test on your way in and
out of the country? I'm going to Central America next month and I'm just now realizing that I
have to jump through all these loopholes of getting tests. If you test negative or you test
positive, you got to quarantine in the country for 10 more days. Oh, jeez. Well, no. You should
know whether you're going to be quarantined before you get your test before and then you know.
But yeah, that test is the devil, man. That test is no fun.
No. Yeah, I got it. It sucks. But apparently though, before you come back, before you return
to the States, you have to get another test in whatever country you're in, like three days
before you travel. That's correct. I'm getting my test on Wednesday.
Are you? Unless you're vaccinated, you can bypass the whole thing, I think.
Is that so? I didn't know that. Yeah, that's what I read that if you have the vaccine,
you don't have to go through all the testing stuff. Oh, that's good to know.
Which is crazy. That's good to know. Yeah. No, it is kind of a deal. Every country has their own
kind of thing. Until this thing goes away and it's probably going to go really slowly, we're
going to have to deal with just random stuff like this. Hopefully we'll be able to move back to
some new normal and enjoy the world as we previously knew it. Are people getting vaccines in Mexico?
They are. Part of the reason why I'm going to the US is to get my second dose of the vaccine.
Oh, really? I could get mine in Mexico, but you're playing Russian roulette. You literally
don't know what you're going to get. They say they have the Pfizer and the Johnson,
I don't know if the Johnson, but the Pfizer, Moderna, but they're also doing the Russians.
But they go on, they're doing the Chinese. There's one Chinese vaccine called literally,
it's called Cancino. Casino with an S and with an N in there somewhere. And they brag about the
fact that it's got 50-50 chance of actually doing something. That's the most aptly named vaccine
I could have ever imagined. So you'll end up with just some random stuff. And so I'd like the good
old American one. Even if you do get the Pfizer, they have to keep it cold. And I don't know if
they do that properly. So who knows? What do you like go to like in the back of a taqueria and
shoot you up with your Pfizer vaccine? There are reports of people saying, well,
vaccinate you here. Do you know these little cardboard signs? People go there like, I got
vaccinated. I'm good to go now. And at the end of the day, even if these vaccines are only half
effective of the Chinese or whatever, then that's still better than what they had before. If you
take up population and you make half of them more protective than before, then we're better off. So
I wouldn't say it's a bad thing necessarily, but because I have the luxury of being able to
just travel to the U.S. without needing to worry about visas or the money or whatever, then that's
the way to do it. In fact, I'm going to Florida to do this because in Florida, they make it really
easy for you. Even though I do have a residence in Florida and I can do all the proving stuff,
like they just ask you for your ID or they ask me for my ID and that's it. So
Where are you in Miami? Yeah. Okay. And you're just, you're saying in Miami the whole time?
Yep. Okay. I was going to say, if you're fucking coming to Florida, I would have scheduled to come
in this place in person and do this. Where is this place? I'm on the, I'm on the, I'm on the
West Coast in Tampa. I'm like, I'm like a five hour drive from Miami. Maybe next time. Maybe next
time. Yeah, no, I wasn't even going to get the vaccine until I found out all this bullshit about
travel. And so now I actually have like a reason to get it. Yeah, me too. I have so many, I just
talked to so many people that are like conspiracy theorists and they're just like chirping in my
ear about, about all the crazy shit about the vaccine and how it's going to depop, you know,
it's all about depopulite, you know, killing off the old people and making the young people infertile.
And it's just like, Oh my God, how do I follow all this? They had a conspiracy here in Mexico at
the beginning where they said, where coronavirus was just starting and they were saying, don't
pay attention to what the doctors are saying and don't go to see a doctor if you get sick because
the doctors, they want you to go to the hospital so that they can effectively kill you. And then
they can take, I guess there's some kind of like a liquid in your kneecap that they can sell for
thousands of dollars. And so, so this conspiracy and it caught a lot of traction.
Where they saying the doctors made up this thing so that you go see them so they can kill you so
they can take these things out. It sounds so ridiculous, right? But, but it's dangerous because
people took it to heart. And you had an issue early on where the doctors, unlike the US where
doctors and nurses were the heroes of this pandemic, they're running around trying to
save people's lives. In Mexico, they were the devils. And so you had, if you wanted to travel
when the quarantine was really strict and you couldn't go on the streets, whatever,
doctors needed to have a special permission say, I'm going to go do my doctor thing. So I should
be allowed to drive my car or whatever. And they told doctors to take that permission off
of the windshield and wait till the cop stops you before you show it to them. Because if you,
if people see that, they would lynch you, they would throw rocks at you and stuff. So it's,
it's dangerous. And this information is really dangerous to a really crazy extent.
So when I see this thing about the vaccines, it's like, dude, whatever, like
even, even with the thing that the Johnson, they said, oh, it's giving people strokes or
it's clogging, clogging their blood, seven people out of, I don't know how many millions of millions
of people got this thing. It's like, all right, I'll still take my chances with it. Right. Like
it's so much more, even if it's just to avoid having the stupid nasal swab, I'll do it. Right.
But the fact, the fact that you have these vaccines that, that pretend to do something
that's good, I get vaccinated for all sorts of stuff more. Why not just put it, put the shot
in my arm and hope for the best. Yeah. Every baby that's born is stuck with like 10 needles,
like immediately after it's born with all those vaccines and shots and whatever polio and all
that stuff. I mean, some people are so passionate about like the world is, is collaborating in some
effort to do something. And those people, those people give so much, so much credit to
governments. Like governments suck at doing things. You ever go to the MBA to try and redo
your license? Like you think those guys are going to orchestrate some badass conspiracy
with vaccines? They'll keep things hush hush and they'll get it, you know, whatever it is. Like
you know, governments are powerful and they're effective. Don't get me wrong,
but they're bureaucratic nightmares and like they're not able and the people that go work
in government is just like you and me. You don't switch into an alternate universe. We're like,
put on your cloak of being evil. And now you're just a bad guy all of a sudden. It's like, no,
no, it's the same dudes. They're going in and out. Right. In fact, I would argue that the people
that work in government, they're the most vocal against the government. So
it's crazy, but people don't have anything better to do. And, you know, and they have their fears
or whatever it is. But even if the even if most people get the vaccine, then I'm cool with people
not get the other people not getting their vaccine as long as they keep their mouth shut.
Right. If you don't like the vaccine, don't get it. But just stop preaching to other people
because you're going to get the benefit for free without having to get the shot of everyone
else having it for you because if the virus is gone, then you can't get it anyways.
Yeah. I mean, what makes you think the whole entire world could orchestrate some crazy depopulation
effort, but we can't fix the potholes on the roads and in the fucking town in Florida I live in.
I mean, it is kind of bizarre or bonkers to think of that, to think like it makes no sense. It really
doesn't make any sense. No, no. And it's a very expensive, very, very expensive, very damaging.
I don't, you know, the only people that ended up better off are actually the rich people. Rich
people got a lot richer last year. That's, that's for sure. So if you want to have conspiracies
around this virus, I'll go ahead and listen to the ones that say it was the rich people that did
it because, because they actually had something to gain from it. Well, cool, man. Thanks again for
doing this. Where could the people listening and watching find out about what you're doing?
So yeah, the big one I have. So I'm on Instagram. I'm Jamie Rogozinski, although I use it for
personal Twitter. It's wall street bets. All one word. And the website is WSB DAPDAPP.com.
Awesome, dude. Thanks again. Thanks a lot for having me. This was fun.
