All right, Dan McClellan, thank you very much for coming down here and doing the podcast,
man.
Thank you for having me, I appreciate it.
As I was just talking to you off camera, I'm very, very new to this world of the classical
world and Christianity and the history of religion.
And I've come to realize a lot of people have very different views and opinions of what
was going on back in the day.
Yeah, yeah, there's kind of a standard deviation and then you got some people reaching out
a little further than that, but yeah, there are a wide variety of views.
So for people who aren't familiar with you, can you give me a background of your education
and what you talk about in your YouTube channel and what you do?
So my first degree was in Ancient Near Eastern Studies.
I was at Brigham Young University and I emphasized biblical Hebrew, but I did a minor in classical
Greek and went away to the University of Oxford where I did a master's degree in Jewish
studies.
And I wrote my master's thesis there on textual criticism of the Septuagint.
Then I went and did another master's degree at a university up in Canada called Trinity
Western University.
That was in biblical studies where I started working on cognitive linguistics and wrote
my thesis there on the conceptualization of deity in the Hebrew Bible.
So when they talked and thought about gods, anciently, what exactly were they thinking
about?
And then I did my doctoral dissertation under the watchful eye of Professor Francesca Stavricapullo
at the University of Exeter and that was on concepts of deity and divine agency.
So now I'm looking at what is a god, but also what is a divine image and how does like an
idol, how does that work?
What was the logic they were using for how this could be both the deity and not the deity?
And then I looked at how we can better understand some features in the Bible related to divine
presence associated with that.
And during the COVID lockdowns, I was at home with not a ton to do and I started seeing
people post in TikTok videos on Facebook and Instagram and elsewhere where people were
talking about religion in the Bible and I kind of was wondering who's in charge over
there.
Got an account and went and checked out TikTok and saw that there wasn't really, there were
not a lot of credentialed experts who were commenting, but there was a lot of discussion
going on about religion and the Bible and stuff.
So I thought I might as well just kind of position myself as a bit of an umpire calling
balls and strikes out there.
So my channel is all about trying to, my motto is data over dogma.
The idea being that I'm going to try to center the data, what we can say about the Bible
and religion based on actual research and try to prioritize that over and against the
dogmas, whatever they may be from whichever side they come, whether they're related to
identity politics or they're related to one's own personal interests or things like that.
So and I was kind of expecting to not find a big audience for someone who kind of stands
in the middle and tries not to play for either team, but to my surprise, there are a lot
of folks who are interested in that and so it's been a fun ride, but sometimes I also
run into people who push back an awful lot and so I've made a lot of wonderful friends
getting into this field.
I'm kind of learning, well the academic world of the study of the Bible and religion, I
knew a little better, but getting into the social media world of the Bible and religion,
I had to go through my own crash course.
Yeah, you seem like you're the guy that calls out the bullshit when it comes to religion.
I tried to, yeah.
And you said you also had, what was your degree in classics?
So I did a minor in classical Greek.
A minor in classical Greek, okay, so that's interesting.
So you do have some knowledge of classics and you did study classics a bit.
A little bit, yeah, although I transitioned into Septuagint Greek, New Testament Greek
and that's kind of where I've spent most of my time.
What is the difference between a classical scholar and a biblical scholar?
So a person who studies classics is primarily engaging in the Greek and the Latin literature
from the middle of the first millennium BCE down into the first few centuries CE and I
use BCE and CE where people use BC and AD.
So classics doesn't really have a ton of overlap with the Bible, but the people who wrote and
transmitted and consumed the New Testament and as well as the Septuagint were also people who
engaged with classical literature and there's a lot of influence from classics on the Bible,
but a lot of people who study the Bible will also study what's going on in the classical world
because of the influence.
You frequently see a lot of overlap, classicists going into biblical studies sometimes going
into classics, so there are folks who try to straddle both of those fields, but that's a
very difficult thing to do.
So classicists do entertain the Bible?
Oh yeah, not all of them, but there are plenty who will work with early Christianity just
because early Christianity was engaging with Greco-Roman intelligentsia,
so there's relevance to what's going on there.
Okay, so I discovered you obviously after you made those two videos from the Responsive
Videos from Ammon's podcast, he said two things that you responded to.
The first one was about the word Chrio, it's a Greek root word that he claimed was the meaning
to apply a drug to the skin, and he also mentioned that it was to be stung by the gadfly,
I think those are two separate meanings for Chrio, and then the other point was he believes
that the Septuagint came before the Torah, and he thinks that the Greek was translated into Hebrew.
So which one of those do you want to start on?
Which should we talk about first?
Whichever, we can probably, why don't we start with the Septuagint?
I think that's a little easier.
There are no specialists in the study of the Septuagint who would do anything other than
laugh at that claim.
Just to give people who might not be familiar with what we're talking about,
can you give sort of a basis of the period of time we're talking about in history and
give me an idea, like just lay out the argument?
The development of the Hebrew Bible is pretty complex, but in short, there were a lot of
traditions, a lot of poetry, some legal texts that began to be written down between around
800 BCE and down to around 4300 BCE, and as they're being written, they're being collected,
they're being redacted and edited, and they're coming together into this corpus of texts.
Now, most scholars these days would probably say that it's not until around the middle of
the 2nd century BCE, around the rise of the Hasmonean Kingdom, so this is the Maccabees,
this is the story of the rededication of the temple that Hanukkah is based on.
But before that time, there were a lot of Jewish folks who weren't speaking Hebrew anymore.
They were speaking Greek because mainly they were the ones who were living in Alexandria
and Egypt. In the late 4th century BCE, Alexander the Great sweeps through all this area, takes it
over, and then as his successors are fighting for control of these regions, the land is Hellenized,
meaning that Greek becomes kind of the lingua franca. This is what if you want to engage in
international business and sometimes even business between one city and another,
usually a type of Greek is going to be the language of wider communication.
And so a lot of Jewish folks are living in Egypt and Alexandria. They're living elsewhere where
people are being raised speaking Greek as their native language, not Hebrew.
Now, Hebrew is still being spoken.
So it wasn't a dead language?
It wasn't a dead language. I don't know where on earth that idea comes from because we have letters
and inscriptions and things in Hebrew all the way down past the life of Christ.
Yeah. What does that even mean, a dead language? How can a language be dead? What does that mean?
So if people are growing up learning a language as their first language,
and then they're out there using it in public discourse, the language evolves.
So you get new words are brought in, old words change their meaning.
You get semantic drift, right?
That's one of the things that can happen. There's a lot of stuff that can happen.
But once a language is no longer being learned as a first language and it's not being used
in public discourse, when it's limited only to texts or rituals or things like that,
then you don't have that continued change in evolution.
And at that point, they tend to refer to a language that doesn't, it's frozen.
It's not changing at all. They will usually refer that as a dead language.
So like Latin, for instance, nobody learns Latin as their first language.
There are people who can speak it fairly fluently,
and, but it's limited to usually liturgical things and rituals and things like that.
So we're not building the Latin vocabulary. The syntax is not changing.
You don't have old guys going, in my day, we use that Latin word to mean this,
and the kids these days, you know, you don't have that kind of thing.
They used to think that Hebrew was more or less a dead language by the time of Jesus,
and that most everybody spoke Aramaic, but there's a growing contingent, I would say,
it's probably, if not about 50% of scholars, probably even more than that, think that
Hebrew was still quite active. Yeah. Now, most people think Jesus probably spoke some degree
of Greek. I think it was probably some marketplace Greek, you know, like the way that I can speak
modern Greek. I can't hold a conversation. I can't argue with somebody in Greek,
but I can find my way to the restaurant or the, you know, I can buy or sell what I need.
So that was, and, you know, Seferus was right over the hill from Nazareth. So if he was doing any
any work for people who were living in Seferus or something like that,
growing up as a mason or whatever he was, then he probably would have picked up some Greek.
But there's, there's debate about the degree to which Hebrew was
a living language around the time of Jesus. But I think most scholars would say it was probably
still a living language, although Aramaic and Greek were the more common languages of
wider communication. Now, when the Septuagint was translated, Hebrew was very much still a
living language. That's probably around 250 to 100 BCE. You have the process of translating
the Septuagint. There's an old tradition from a text that scholars usually call pseudo-Aristaic.
About the king in Egypt wanting translations of all the laws of the world. And so he calls,
sends some people to Jerusalem and they bring back 72 elders,
six from all the 12 tribes of Israel and they are locked up in towers and they each translate
the entire Torah into Greek. And they all come together at the end and miraculously
all 72 translations match word for word. And so that's, that's the legend about the translation
of the Septuagint. The reality is that the books were translated by different people
over the course of a few centuries and there were some versions that were probably more popular
than others and by, by around the turn of the era. So the end of the first century BCE, beginning
of the first century CE around the birth of Jesus, there was probably a set of kind of
more or less standard translations of the Hebrew Bible into Greek. And one of the
reasons that we know that this is a translation is because, for instance, the Torah, the Pentateuch,
the first five books of Moses, their, each of the books has a different translation profile.
Like some of the books are more literal. Some of the books are less literal. Some have certain
habits that they do in translating certain Hebrew things. Others have other habits. And so when
you look at all five of them together, there's no way this is an original composition. It has to
be a translation. And my- You're talking about the Septuagint.
Septuagint, the ancient Greek translation. When we look at the Hebrew, there is some,
there is some distinctiveness from book to book. But as we kind of drill down to the foundation
of this distinctiveness, what we get is the different source texts, the different sources
for these traditions. So Genesis were probably composed separately from Exodus. Deuteronomy
was composed separately. We have what's called the priestly source, which is adding layers to
several of the books of the Pentateuch. The holiness code is an even later portion of the priestly
source that is responsible for things in Leviticus and things like that. So,
but there's a, there's a consistency that is related to the type of Hebrew that we see being
used outside of the Bible. So in the inscriptions and the letters, the Dead Sea Scrolls, there were
a lot of biblical texts, but there were a lot of other texts that were discovered there as well
that aren't part of the Bible, part of other apocryphal, pseudopographical books, but other
things that were unique to that community that was living in Qumran. And there's nothing in there,
well, so we have Hebrew, Samarimek, and some Greek texts that were discovered among the Dead Sea
Scrolls. And there's nothing in the Hebrew of the Dead Sea Scrolls that indicates it's being
translated from Greek. All of the data point in the other direction that is going from Hebrew to
Greek. And in one of the videos, I pointed out that, for instance, you have these idioms that
exist in Hebrew that don't exist in Greek, not classical Greek, not the coin. Can you explain
what an idiom is? An idiom is something where like it doesn't, the semantic content of a given
set of words, isn't the sum of the whole. Like a butterfly? Well, that's a single word, but
a common one you hear these days is, in a thousand years, they won't know the difference between
a butt, dial, and a booty call. Right. Because butt and booty are synonyms,
dial, call are kind of synonyms. It doesn't exactly work. But those are things where you
combine words in a way that has a specific kind of semantic impact that you might not be able to
decipher just from looking at the words themselves. Got it. And so in the thesis I wrote at Oxford,
I was looking at Exodus 24-10. And this is the story of Moses goes up, Sinai with all of the
elders. And it says, and they saw the God of Israel. And the text goes on to say there was
like a sapphire paving under his feet, and they sat down and they ate there. In the Greek, it doesn't
say that. It says they saw the place where the God of Israel stood. But it's... So you're saying
there's way more detail in the Hebrew? Well, no. The point here is that there's a difference
between what the Hebrew is saying and what the Greek is saying. But the Greek is not phrased how you
would normally phrase that in Greek. So it actually says they saw the place which God stood there.
And so the which and the there are an odd way that that's not natural Greek. But it exactly matches
something called the resumptive pronoun that is used in Hebrew, where you would say stood a share
for which, Ahmad, he stood, Sham, there. And so what it shows is that the Greek translator is
translating very literally, so much so that it doesn't make a ton of sense in Greek.
But if you know Hebrew, you could be like, oh, I see that's it's doing this Hebrew thing.
Interesting. And so there's... I'm trying to think of some English examples of like
translationese or some things. Well, I guess just saying they saw the place which he stood there.
That doesn't make a lot of sense in English. But a Hebrew speaker would be able to see, oh,
I see what you're doing. That's something that we do in Hebrew with this resumptive
pronoun and adverb. Yeah, one of the interesting things that Ahmed pointed out to me when he was
trying to make a case for the Greek being original was that this episode of the podcast is brought
to you by Manscaped. Steve, have you heard of Manscaped's new performance package 5.0 Ultra?
It has everything you need to prepare for that summer bod. Oh, are you talking about the Lawnmower
5.0 Ultra package? Yes, the new fifth generation trimmer. Oh, the one that has the next-gen skin
safe blade heads and then the standard one for taking a little off the top and the new foil blade
that goes smooth wherever your heart desires. Yes, Steve, they also have dual LED spotlights to
provide contrast no matter what your skin tone is. So you can see where you're going in the shower
so you don't clip yourself. It will devour the strongest, courliest pubes you can imagine.
Do you ever stink around barbecues? You know what, Steve? Now that you mentioned it,
I always stink around barbecues. So you can use Manscaped's crop smoother. It's an aftershave
lotion or their ball deodorant. Oh, yes. Yes, I have used that. Once that ball deodorant touches
your sack, you'll never go back. I love it when it touches my bag. But you can also now get two free
gifts with their performance package 5.0. The Manscaped Boxers and the Shed Travel Bag. Bundle
includes their signature silicone scrubber, their body wash, so you can ditch that nasty
luffa and grab a taste of freshness. So if you want to be nice and trimmed up and smell and fresh
and clean all summer like Steve and I, you can support this show and go down below and hit the
link to Manscaped to save 20% off plus free shipping by using the code DannyJones at checkout.
Again, that's 20% off plus free shipping at manscaped.com. Use the promo code D-A-N-N-Y-J-O-N-E-S
for 20% off. It's linked below. Now back to the show. The ancient Greek has like 1.5 million
unique words and the ancient Hebrew only has 8,000 unique words. And he was explaining to us,
he was showing us the differences. And there was like, for one word in Greek, when you translate
it to Hebrew, there's like three or four words just to equal that one word in Greek.
So there's, so a couple of things there. One, there's nowhere near that many Greek words.
There are ancient Greek, you've got I think 275,000 is the estimate more or less of how many
ancient Greek words there are. If you look at all Greek, ancient, medieval and modern, you've got
400,000 to 500,000. What's that lexicon website where we can actually look it up?
Thesaurus lingua greica. TLG. Can you find the TLG and is there a way you can just search for
unique words in a certain language and it'll tell you? You have to have an account, I think,
to do the most robust kind of search with that. Oh, do you? But I think you should be able to do
some pretty basic stuff. Okay, see what you can find Stephen. Okay, anyways, you can keep going.
And then there are 79,900 and like 45 words in Hebrew in the Hebrew Bible alone.
79,000? 79,000, yeah. So I think he may have heard 80,000 somewhere.
Oh, he said eight. Yeah, I think he may have mistook
84, eight because the Hebrew Bible itself, which is not all of ancient Hebrew, like there's,
there was a lot of Hebrew writing and speaking outside the Hebrew Bible. But the Hebrew Bible
itself has 80,000 different words in it. But when it comes to translation, there are a lot of
different ways that between one language and another, one word may need a whole phrase in
another language. Yes. But at the same time, in that language, there may be another word that needs
two or three words in the other language. It's just, it's just wild. Like, it's bizarre that
even, let's even just, let's just say what you're saying is true. And it's, it's 80,000 in Hebrew
and it's only 250,000 in Greek. The fact that you need four, like multiple Hebrew words to match
one Greek word is like pretty wild. I think more frequently you need more Greek words. Greeks use,
Greek uses, Greek uses articles a lot more frequently. Like you don't, you don't just say
Jesus in Greek, you say the Jesus. So if you were just speaking in Hebrew Aramaic, you would just
say Yeshua or something like that. And you wouldn't have to use the article. You have,
and Greek is a much more systematic language in Hebrew. Hebrew is a lot more vibes going on in
Hebrew. You kind of have to just get a sense for, for how things are being used. But also in Hebrew,
things get packed together into individual words. So you can have your direct objects
tacked onto the word. You can have the definite article tacked onto the word. And so if you're
looking at a text, you may only be looking at one word, but it could be, he did the thing. It could
be three different words in English. And so I actually tried to figure out what he was talking
about with this going from more complex to less complex. I honestly don't know.
Yeah. He did, he did a debate with a guy named Kip.
Kip Davis.
Kip Davis. Yeah. He did a debate with him. I think it was on Neil's podcast where they were
debating with what came first, the Greek or the Hebrew. And this is the example I was talking
about. Okay. I forget what the exact word was. Stephen, maybe you can find it on Neil's channel.
His Kip, he is like a, he's a scholar of Hebrew. Dead Sea Scrolls. The Dead Sea Scrolls. Okay.
He's, in fact, he was on a team that helped demonstrate that a bunch of the Dead Sea Scrolls
fragments that have been discovered and purchased in the last 20 years are all forgeries.
So he's a really good Dead Sea Scrolls scholar. They were forgeries? Yeah. So there were a bunch
that were discovered with the initial excavations that went on in all the caves down in Qumran and
elsewhere. Right. So since then, every now and then, a little piece of something that somebody
calls a Dead Sea Scroll will pop up somewhere on the antiquities market or a school will say,
oh, we just purchased this. This was just discovered. And in fact, there were just
some texts that were discovered just a few months ago in a cave that was adjacent to some of these
others. But there were about 80 of these fragments that have been purchased since 2002 by different
institutions. I think the Museum of the Bible purchased a bunch, Azusa Pacific University,
a handful of faith institutions purchased them. And one of them that I really thought was fascinating
was a fragment of Deuteronomy 27, which there's a variant reading where it says that they're supposed
to be on Mount Garazim. And this is what the Samaritans have always said should be the reading
over against the traditional Jewish reading. And so this shocked a lot of people. This is
very, very early evidence for the Samaritan reading. And they were given access to a number of these
fragments to do analysis. And they did a bunch of different types of analysis and came back and said,
every single one that we've looked at is a forgery. And the features of these that we have used to
diagnose them as forgeries are found in pretty much all of the 80 or so that have popped up
since 2002. And what sort of tests do they have to do to determine if they're forgeries?
They look at a handful of different things. They do a lot of work under microscopes. For
instance, if you have like a tear in the manuscript, this happens an awful lot,
particularly for fragmentary manuscripts, you have multiple different layers to the page.
And if there's a tear, usually the layers will be separated from each other. And they were able
to show, for instance, that some of the ink is goes off of the top layer and shows up on the
bottom layer as well, which means that the ink was put there after the text was torn. Yeah.
Indicating this somebody, they may have found an actual authentic ancient torn piece of paper,
but what they wrote on it came afterwards. Wasn't it on like animal skins?
Yeah. Yeah. Mostly cow, but goat sheep. So people are just trying to create fake
Dead Sea Scrolls to make money to sell them? Yeah, that basically. There are an awful
lot of people out there who are getting very sophisticated when it comes to their forgeries.
So Steve, you're going to have to drag your cursor across that timeline right there. And
you're going to find when they're going to have like a something pulled up on the screen that
shows texts. Oh, yeah, you're going to, you'll see, you'll see. There you go. Okay. So go to the
beginning of that. And we'll be able to play that. There you go. Here we go. And here we go.
Translating into a dead liturgical language. When you go to the synagogues, you see Greek.
Why don't you see? Why don't you see any Hebrew? You see Greek in the synagogues.
No, go ahead. So Theo Sabea is what this guy Job has. And I want you to see that this is that
Saba, that's Saba of Zeus or Thos. Good. Keep going, Neil. Right. Very. Now,
how does this translated right on the Masorek side? You just use an adjective for being afraid
and you drop in Elohim. Look, Theo Sabea is taken by the Hebrew back translator
and done literally. They have no internal concept of Theo Sabea or Saba.
So what is he saying there? Do you understand what's?
Yeah, Theo Sabea is God fearing. It was a title that was used. You do see synagogue inscriptions
where somebody and God fearing was a title that was used in the Hellenistic Jewish world to refer
to somebody who was a Greek or a Roman, was not Jewish, but supported the Jewish community.
So it was like, he's a friend of the Jews. He's a God fearing. And so you have like
funerary inscriptions where on somebody's headstone it says, this is Dave, God fearing.
So that just meant he was a friend of the Jewish people. Theo Sabea.
Or you might say this synagogue was built thanks to the help of so-and-so
Theo Sabeas, the God fear. So that's a title that developed within Hellenistic Judaism
as it's interacting with the Greco-Roman world. So it's not unusual that there would be a title
that is unique to Greek because that title developed from the interaction of Jewish
and Greco-Roman individuals. The notion that this Hebrew didn't pre-exist that title,
that this is a translation from, that title is nonsensical.
So, and then he's also mentioning here that the, or the synagogues, the synagogues, they had
astrology, or they had like Greek astrology on the ceilings and stuff like that.
So they had mosaics that would have Greek.
Astrological symbols.
The zodiac signs and things like that.
Most of those are from second century CE and later. Dura Europus is the most famous one.
But yeah, there's, and this is again the interaction of Jewish communities with the
Hellenized world. They're living in a world where everybody around them is speaking Greek.
And so there are, you have a whole spectrum of people from the folks who went, ran off into the
desert at Qumran. And these are the hippies that went out in the desert to live by themselves.
We're sick of the man. We're going to go be by ourselves.
And then you had like the Maccabees and others who fought against the Seleucid tyrants like
Antiochus, the Fourth Epiphanes. And these are the folks who want to defend their culture.
They're not about to go out into the desert, but they're also not going to adopt the Greco-Roman
worldview. And then you have other folks, and this is primarily the elites, the people who are well
off, who, you know, there's a lot of social capital associated with integrating with the
broader Hellenistic world who are fine with it. And what we find and what has been preserved in,
you know, what we call the Jewish scriptures is mostly the production of the people on the more
conservative end of that spectrum. So the folks who are very insular running off into the desert
to hide from the Romans and the people who are fighting against the Romans. Christianity is kind
of the folks who are a little closer to the assimilationists, the people who are accommodating
to the Hellenistic world, the Greco-Roman world. And so this is why the New Testament-
Accommodating to the Greco-Roman world.
Yeah. It's basically, we're not your enemies. We can, you know, we can be friends. Our kids
can play together. We can speak the same language. It stands opposed to the folks who are saying,
no, the people across the street who speak Greek are not us. They want to destroy our way of life.
We need to stay separated from them. And so you've got this whole spectrum of people,
and the folks on the more conservative side are overwhelmingly going to speak Hebrew or Aramaic,
and they may know some Greek to get by, but Greek is also kind of seen as the language of the enemy
to some degree. And so we have the remains of people living across this whole spectrum
from the folks who were like, yeah, sure, do a giant mosaic of the Zodiac calendar and our
synagogue. You guys are paying for it. We're friends of yours. We've got a bunch of Theosabee,
God-fearers who are visiting us, who come to the barbecue, so to speak. And so we have those
remains. And then we also have the remains of the folks who are doing everything in Hebrew.
About 100 years after Jesus' death, you have what's called the Bar Kokhla Revolt,
which is another attempt on the part of Jewish folks and around Judea to try to throw off Roman
rule. And we have coins that were minted that have Hebrew on them. We have letters that are
all written in Hebrew. And these are another example of the folks on the very conservative side who
we're going to fight against them. We're going to go live on our own. We don't want to be a part of
that world. We need to preserve our language. We need to make sure that we're not using their
money. We're not using their language. We're not dressing like them. So there's a whole spectrum
of distinction versus accommodation going on with people who are consuming and using the
scriptures, the Jewish scriptures, whether the Hebrew Bible or what would ultimately become
the New Testament. Okay. So the point he's making here is, Steve, can you just play like the next
like 10 seconds of it to see what if we get to the Greek? Go ahead. One who feared God. You're
saying it would be really hard to go the other way around to translate those two words into
Theosabayo. Right. It would be impossible, Neil, because you would be adding. So he's saying it
would be impossible to translate Elohim and Weere into Theosabayo. Is that what he's saying?
Seems to be what he's saying, which is nonsensical because translation is not just a surgical,
technical reproduction of the same words in another language. It is just as much an art.
There's a whole range of ways to translate something,
and particularly when it comes to things that are considered authoritative or even inspired.
So you have a word like Theosabayo, which means is to one who fears God. So that's one word in
Greek, right? Right. And then so if I say- It's a compound word, though, because it's Theos
and the verb for fear. So it's two of them being put together in one word. It's a compound word.
Okay. So it's kind of like booty call. Well, that would be two words or a hyphenated word.
Oh, football. Football. Football. There we go. Okay, got it. Thanks, Steve.
Okay. So that's just like that we're taking a word like football and we're translating it and
basically so you're saying they're separating it and they're taking each part, the person who's
doing the fearing and the entity God, and they're separating those into Hebrew.
And he's- Armen's point is that it's impossible to do this.
I worked in scripture translation for 10 years. That's laughable. The notion that that would
be impossible is just nonsensical. That has absolutely no basis in any kind of valid translation
theory that exists. There is a presupposition in the translation of the Bible that anything
that is said in a given language can be translated into another. And I think there's a degree to
which that's accurate. But at the same time, there's so much nuance and so many layers of meaning
that can be added by the nonverbals, by emphasis, by context, by all this kind of stuff that you
can't really communicate in writing. So there are ways to say you could have a text and a
translation and you could say this is an accurate translation because these words mean this and
these words mean this. And then you could say this is an inaccurate translation because there's
also this thing going on here, but you have to be on the inside. You have to get the joke and the
translation doesn't communicate that. There's in Bible translation, you're trying to strike a balance
because what you're doing is you're taking something that is a product of a specific time and place
and you're trying to render it understandable to a different time and place and language.
And there are a bunch of ways that you can, your translation is going to fall somewhere
between those two. And you can make it a lot closer to the original, like if you use the same
word order or you use, you ensure that the same number of words are being used or something like
that. And that makes it closer to the original. But then the reader has to do a lot more work
to understand it. They have to get themselves closer to the original time and place in order
to understand what's going on. And so like an interlinear, people think they understand
the Bible better if they look at an interlinear or something like that. And that's not how language
works. It becomes harder to understand. The other thing that you can do is you can accommodate the
language to the target audience. You can move the translation closer to the understanding,
the conventions, the history of whoever's going to be reading it. And that makes it easier to
understand, but it also moves it away from the meaning that it had in that original context.
Yeah. And so the example of Butt Dial and Booty Call again, in a thousand years, if for whatever
reason they lost all knowledge of this, both of those are going to feel pretty similar because
they're not close enough to the source culture to be able to understand what those words meant.
Yeah. And here we are more than 2,000 years away trying to figure out what was going on back then.
That's the hardest part about this whole thing is trying to figure out the context of what the
hell was going on back then. Yeah. That's where the meaning is found, is in reproducing the history,
the literary context, why somebody was writing. And so an example I use a lot,
a lot of people like the King James version of the Bible. I think it's a great literary artifact,
but it is an awful translation of the Bible. It's an awful translation. Yeah.
Yeah. Why is it awful? For a number of different reasons. Because they were using inferior manuscripts
because they were frequently being overly literal. And so if they didn't have a clear
understanding of what something meant in the source, they would frequently just render it
literally, translate it as literal as they could, follow the same word order and everything like
that. And sometimes it's just nonsensical. We have passages in the King James version that are
semantically meaningless because they just punted. They were like, just render it literally.
But an example of why it's also outdated. Nobody speaks the language. In fact, when they
publish the King James version, nobody spoke the language of the King James version because it is
a very conservative revision of the Bishops Bible, which was a very conservative revision
of earlier translations and earlier translations back to Tyndall. Tyndall's New Testament and
this Pentateuch and then Coverdale's translation of the rest of the Old Testament from almost a
century before. And so the language is almost a century out of date on the date it was published.
And now it's even more than 400 years further out of date. But a good example is
the Epistle of Jude in the New Testament, verse 22. It says,
Of some have compassion, making a difference. And I've seen sermons preached on this where people
say, have compassion on people. It makes a difference in their lives. It has a positive
impact. It has a positive influence. That's how we interpret making a difference has absolutely
nothing at all to do with what the King James translators were trying to say because in 1611,
making a difference didn't mean have a positive impact or influence. It meant to distinguish
one thing from another. So what they were trying to say was, Of some have compassion,
but be discerning, but exercise discernment regarding whom. And that phrase making a difference
didn't start to mean having a positive influence or impact until around the year 1900. So our
experience of the language of the King James version is different from the experiences of
the translators. So then there are a bunch of different ways that we misunderstand the King
James version. But even that's an example of how we can be far enough away from the source culture
that we don't even need a translation, the same language that we are speaking.
We're too far away from the source culture to understand it. So when you're talking about a
translation from one language to another, it's... Isn't it so funny that we can be so far in the
future and still be arguing about what the hell they're talking about? It's kind of goofy.
Yeah. Well, and it's unfortunate because it still means life or death for some people,
what the Bible says, or what people think it says. That's an interesting point you make.
It's perplexing to me how people can be a scholar of the Bible and dedicate their lives,
I mean, to go to school and to get a master's degree in studying the Bible. It's a science.
You're trying to figure out the truth about something. And it seems to me so counterintuitive
that you have all of these people who are Bible scholars, but they're also subscribing to the
very belief of the thing that they're studying. That is one of the things that causes me an
awful lot of heartache is the fact that there are folks who ostensibly want to understand this
as it was understood anciently. But conveniently, it always seems to line up with what they want
it to mean today. Right. And I think there's a degree to which that's inevitable because
we don't have the authors here with us today. We can't drill them for understanding. We can't say,
what did you mean by this? Did you mean this or did you mean that? We can only try to reconstruct
their perspectives and what we think they meant. And for a text that is authoritative,
this happens with the Constitution and other things as well, for the texts that are authoritative or
thought to be inspired or anything like that, just intuitively, not even on purpose, just the way
the human mind interprets language, we're going to be nudged in the direction of
an interpretation that serves our interests or makes sense to us. And for a text like the Bible,
which there's so much power and authority and values wrapped up in it, I think it's just so
incumbent on people who do make it their life's work to study the Bible, to distinguish what I
want the Bible to mean from what I think, what they originally wanted it to mean. Because if it
just conveniently always happens to be the exact same thing, there's a problem in your math is
wrong. Because they live in an entirely different world, anciently. They don't magically hate all
the same people and magically love all the same people and magically need all the same things.
Are you religious? I am. What sort of religion do you follow? I'm an active member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, so I'm a Mormon. And some people discover that and they're
like, you deceive me. Well, I've had a pinned video on the top of all of my social media accounts
that introduces myself and says that, but also says, I make a very concerted effort to ensure
that my religious beliefs, my dogmas, don't influence my academic positions. And I'm very good
at that. And I get accused all the time, people post comments on videos saying, ah, your Mormon is
showing. And it's always wrong because they're confusing something that looks similar on the
surface if you squint at it, but don't really understand either in any detail. My positions
that I share on social media are all just strictly scholarly and are not aligned with
my religious beliefs. Where are your biases? This episode of the podcast is brought to you by
Verso. The older I get, the more I want to invest in my health because I don't just want to look
young. I want to feel young. Recent scientific findings demonstrate that it is not only possible
to slow down the aging process, but it's also possible to reverse it. That is why I use Cell
Being by Verso. Cell Being contains scientifically proven ingredients that target the root causes
of aging. And that way you can avoid the whack-a-mole process that you get when you use regular
supplements. It contains NMN, resveratrol, TMG, and together, these ingredients turn on longevity
pathways in your body to help fight the effects of aging. It also improves metabolism, boosting your
NAD plus, and so on. I started using Cell Being years ago, originally when nutritional scientist
Dr. Don D'Agostino came on the show and explained to me all of the amazing benefits. Now I use it
for pre-workout. I use it in the morning for an extra boost of energy. And essentially it is the
holy grail. Verso also publishes third-party testing from each batch produced to guarantee
you're getting what you pay for. So if you want to support the show, click the link down in the
description. It's buy.ver.so slash Danny or use the coupon code Danny at checkout for 15% off
your first order. Again, that's b-u-y.ver.so slash d-a-n-n-y for 15% off your first order. And
don't forget to use the coupon code Danny. It's linked below. Now back to the show.
My biases, the biggest one I have is something that I also state in my intro videos is that
all of the things being equal, I'm going to give the benefit of the doubt to the less powerful
group. So if it's between a privileged group and an underprivileged group and it's a wash,
it's a toss-up, it's 50-50, I'm going to side with the less powerful group. And I also, I'm a
specialist in the cognitive science of religion. That was part of my doctoral dissertation. And so
I study why people believe what they believe, how they think about it, how they talk about it,
why they talk about it the way they do. And so a lot of my work also includes commentary about,
this is why this is going on. This is why people are interpreting the Bible the way they are.
These are the kind of the intuitive nudges that they're getting that's leading them in the direction
of interpreting it that way. And so a lot of people accuse me of trying to read minds and say,
no, I just read a lot of research about why people believe the way they do.
Yeah, I think it's important for people to be aware of their biases and to not completely
deny the fact that there's any biases. And I think I would also say, like everybody,
I have my own personal biases. Like if I publish an argument, I want that argument to be right.
And so it'll be a little more difficult for me to think critically if somebody comes in later and
says, hi, here's the flaw in your argument, I'm going to be a little less eager to accept that
argument. And that's a bias that I'm always going to be struggling against. But I am aware of it
in case anybody is doubtful. Right. Now going back real quick to the Septuagint, is there any
evidence that we can date the Torah? Let's just say the Torah was first, the Septuagint came after.
Is there any evidence that places the creation of the Torah in the Hellenistic era?
There have been some theories about that, but it's not the composition of the Torah. It is the
it is the consolidation of all these traditions and texts together and their arrangement. That
almost certainly took place in the Hellenistic era. So for instance, like the book of Genesis has
some of the oldest poetry in all the Hebrew Bible may go back to 1000 BCE, like Genesis 49.
It also has some traditions that are post-exilic, that come from around maybe the late 6th or the
5th century BCE. It probably did not take the shape that we know it now more or less until
probably around 300 or 200 BCE. So these texts and these traditions all have very, very long lives.
But I think that the actual arrangement of the five books of the Pentateuch in the way we have it
now, that probably did take place during the Hellenistic era. However, the stories in them
and many of them in the actual textual form in which we now have them probably existed for
several years prior to that. Yeah, I watched a video with the guy Gad Barnea. And he says that
he insists that the Torah was 300 BCE or later. Yeah, and usually these scholars are talking
about when it all came together in the shape that we have it now. Which is close to the
Septuagint, right? Yeah, very close. Yeah, relatively close. Yeah, within a century.
Within a century. Yeah. And at the same time, when we look at the Septuagint,
the Septuagint translation of Jeremiah is one-sixth shorter than the Hebrew version.
And so what a lot of scholars think happened there is that the version of Jeremiah as it existed
when it was translated into Greek was much shorter and that it was expanded scribally
in the centuries after. So there's probably a lot of stuff going on right between 300 and
100 BCE. There's probably an awful lot of stuff going on and it's an incredibly complex thing to
try to unpack and parse apart. But in general, in broad strokes, we can talk about the main
sources being the Deuteronomist source, the priestly source, and then the others we call
non-P of the Pentateuch. Probably the Deuteronomist probably started under King Josiah the end of
the 7th century BCE. That's when the earliest layers of Deuteronomy probably started getting
written down. But Deuteronomy in the shape that we have it now probably is around 300, 200 BCE.
So there's over 300 to maybe 400 years of development of that text. Here's another
thing I don't understand. Moses. So the first time Moses is written about is Hectaeus of Abdera.
Outside the Bible. Yeah. Yeah. Hectaeus. This was like 320 BC or something, 300 something.
So how come we don't have any mention of Moses between when he supposedly existed 1200 BC
up until 300 BC? So most scholars would say the Moses tradition probably started
being written down in the 700s. Maybe the late 800s BCE, but probably in the 700s BCE. And up until
we get to the Greco-Roman period, there's not a lot of interaction between these cultures. So
the classical authors who are away in Greece, they're not really interacting with what's going
on in Jerusalem. They may know about it. There are some travelogues, people who are
traveling through and taking note of some general traditions. But yeah, I don't think it's a huge
surprise that we don't hear about Moses until the Hellenistic period. So Hectaeus of Abdera is 300.
You're saying there's someone else who wrote about it in 700? Not somebody outside the Bible.
I'm saying the account in the book of Exodus probably comes from the 700s originally, not as
we have it now, but the Moses tradition probably originates in the 700s. So you're saying, okay,
you're saying the account in the Bible refer to the seventh century BC? I think it's kind of like
this. If your grandfather had some kind of cool war story or something like that, and it doesn't
get written down until 100 years after he dies, and then hundreds of years later, people are
starting to publish it. Yeah, it's kind of like that. But the data don't support the historicity
of Moses or the Exodus. The data what? The data don't support the historicity of Moses or the
Exodus, at least how it is told in the Exodus. In other words, there is not good evidence that
there was a historical Moses that Moses existed. There's not good evidence that he existed.
Most likely this is a tradition that got started up and over time accreted more and more details
and got altered and got changed and got added to. And there are a bunch of different theories about
how this happened. Some folks think that one theory is that there was a band of Levitical
priests who were enslaved in Egypt, and they escaped and made their way to the Northern
Hill Country. And that their story of escape grew to millions of people, and we trudged along in
the desert for 40 years. Another theory is that it was just a small group of people who were already
in the Northern Hill Country of Israel who escaped enslavement and told their story,
and over the centuries the fish got bigger and bigger and bigger, and we have what we have now
in the story of the Exodus. But the way the story is told, the language that is used,
most scholars would say, this seems to be something that developed between the 8th century
and probably the 4th century. But another important point is that when a lot of these
stories were being written, they're being used as scribal exercises. They're being used to train
scribes to write, so not everybody has a copy of Exodus in their living room. If you go to,
if you get special training to be a scribe, you will have read this because it will be something
that you had to write out. They're also being used, the elites are using these texts, a kind of
structure power. There's competition between the palace and the temple, and they're writing
different kinds of texts to try to show that they're the ones who should be in charge, and then
particularly after the exile, there's a lot going on with groups who want to return to Israel and
the land to be pure. And so we wouldn't expect to see people from speaking another language in
another nation being aware of these texts because they didn't publish them. There was no New York
Times number one bestseller list that they looked at. These were texts that were kind of internally
circulating until we get into the Hellenistic period when they're probably more widely known.
And there's a book called The Origins of Judaism by Jonatan Adler that was recently published that
argues that we don't see widespread knowledge within the people of Judea of the laws of the Torah
and their enforcement until the middle of the second century BCE. So like 160s is when you
start to see widespread avoidance of pork, when you start to see certain kind of purity practices
suddenly start being practiced. And so the argument there is that the texts that we now
know as the Pentateuch as the Torah were not used by the whole nation. They were just,
they were the scribal exercises, they were passed around the elite, they were used to try to
structure power. And then when we had this war, the Maccabees and the Seleucids,
and we have the establishment of the Hasmonean dynasty. So for a brief time period after the
Hellenistic period, there was actually an independent quasi-independent kingdom of Judea.
And it was at that time period that the people who were in charge of that kingdom probably said,
all right, everybody needs to follow these rules now, because we're a people again,
we're our own nation, and this is how we're going to identify ourselves. These are the
identity markers that are going to distinguish us from the people we just fought off. And so
that's a theory about the rise of all the practices that we now associate with Judaism.
Yes. Okay, that makes sense. Okay, let's watch the second video you did. Okay. The second video
you did was about the Christ, right? What's the root of the word again? Creo. There we go.
Hold up, we'll just watch it. What is the Christ? What is the Antichrist? What is the
Christ if you have to know the Antichrist? You have to know the Christ. Right. All right, let's see it.
It's a Greek word. For? For applying a drug to your eyes. So you think maybe open.
That's what the Christ means in Greek. Yes. The incredulity on the face of this podcast host
is warranted because that is pure and utter nonsense. From the verb chio to be stung by the
gadfly. So as with many words in many languages, the verbal root chio in ancient Greek can mean
more than one thing. Overwhelmingly, it refers to rubbing with some kind of sticky fluid of some
kind either after bathing or for some kind of ritual purpose or something like that. So
to be anointed anointing something like that is going to take up the majority of the real estate
for the occurrences of this verbal root. However, it can refer to the sting of a gadfly, but that
is overwhelmingly in the minority of occurrences of this verb and it's limited to classical and later
Greek lyrical poetry, none of which has anything whatsoever to do with early Jewish or early Christian
literature, not the Septuagint, not the New Testament, not the early Greek literature.
So he did correct me on something there. I said it was limited to classical and early
Greek lyrical poetry, but it's also in classical and early Greek medical texts. And he pointed
it out so. Oh, he did? Yeah. Now that has absolutely no bearing whatsoever on the claim that that's
what it means in the New Testament, but it is in medical texts. Okay. So is it true that the word
Hrio means to apply drugs to the eyes of the skin? So it can, if the context indicates that that's
how it's being used. Okay. So the way Amen described it to me, he said, what classicists do is they
take the meanings of words and they figure out what part on the human timeline, where in history
the context fits, where they fit into the, where they come from and what was going on at that time
in history to figure out what it meant then, to figure out, because there's like the semantic
drift over time. So we're going to go ahead and we're going to go back in the time machine to
100 BC. And during that time, he's saying the word Hrio meant overwhelmingly to apply drugs to
the skin. Yeah, that's not, that's just not true. Like there are, you can isolate certain texts
where they're using it in that context to indicate that. Okay. But if you just, if you just gather
all the occurrences of the word for a given time period, the majority are just going to be more
generic about rubbing with something. Either you just got out of the bath and you rub some,
some oil on you. So you smelled good or somebody, you know, just who knows, one, one, a contest.
And so they get a little smudge or something or Simba is born and you go on his forehead.
Like all of those things could be called this anointing. And with, and, but you have to look
at each individual occurrence in its context, because the context is what determines the sense.
Yes. And so what, and, and Amen did a whole two, something our live stream responding to me,
arguing that I was wrong about all this, but all he ever did was show the non-Christian and non-Jewish
texts. So you can't say, look at all these texts over here. They are using this word to mean this.
But I don't think he's, I don't think he's saying when he said in the podcast,
he didn't say it was in the Bible. He just said it was a Greek word.
Well, he, he's trying to define what the Christ is and his theory is that
he's saying that the term Christ means this. Right. Well, you asked about, he said,
what is the Christ? You said, what is the antichrist? And he said, if you,
Christ and antichrist, as we use those words today are biblical terms.
They're biblical terms, right. But what I got, what his point is the, the, in the sources and
the original sources, when the people around that world were talking about and were writing about
this kind of stuff, he's, what he's saying is outside of the biblical context, Christ meant
drugs and antichrist meant, um, antidotes to drugs, like venom and, and, and, and anti-venoms.
They, they could be used that way. Sure. What is this? Is this what, would this help? This is a
so Christos. Is that the word? Yeah. This, yeah, that's, that's a Greek word. So Christ
right here in the definite. So this is a Christos. And then if she had definition, that's where is
it? Is that the proper, is that the, so are you saying this is, is that the word we're talking
about? So Christos right there. Yeah. Christos is a title. This is the, this is the Greek
actual Greek letter up here. And then this is the English translation. Okay. So it says to be
rubbed on used as ointment. Yeah.
Now you don't have, you have, you occasionally have occurrences of this, uh, of this form of,
of the word in classical Greek, but, but, uh, this was not, this was not a salient title.
Like if you were just in a, if you just had some random Greek text and they, they just referred
to the, ho Christos, the Christ, no one would, would know what on earth you were talking about,
unless something in the context were to indicate as a title, Christ and Antichrist, uh, are
overwhelmingly for us today and in the ancient world are, um, are going to evoke, uh, Christianity
and the New Testament where the words are used very differently. They're never used to refer to,
uh, and, and this was something that I pointed out that, but this was before Christianity.
Oh yeah. Yeah. This was before Christianity. Right. So it's, but it is, there's a, the way it was
used in the centuries prior to the development of the New Testament, don't necessarily govern how
they're allowed to use it in the New Testament. My whole point was that, uh, if you're talking about
Jesus in the New Testament, if you're talking about, uh, the translation of this word in the
Septuagint, because this occurs in the Septuagint, uh, like Cyrus, uh, the great is called My Christ
in the Greek translation of Isaiah 45 one. And that is a translation of, uh, the Hebrew word
Mashiach, which is a pre-exist, the also long predates Christianity that is used to refer to,
uh, people who are anointed for certain purposes that are consecrated, whether they are, um,
prophets priests or kings. So, uh, you know, Samuel anoints Saul and David to be King. So, um,
in that sense, they're, uh, anointed because they're given special authority, uh, or, uh,
prophets could be anointed. And Jesus is the anointed one because this, this tradition developed
that, uh, primarily in the Greco-Roman period, that there were, there was going to be some special
figure who had special authority, who was going to be kind of a mediator between God and humanity,
who was going to be going to be known, uh, in some circles as the anointed one. Now,
there were a bunch of other titles as well. And when the Jesus tradition starts to arise,
he kind of consolidates all these, all these different titles, but the one that, that takes over
in, at least in the New Testament is Christ. So how come when we type in this word here,
it only pulls up this to be rubbed on in a news ointment? Because this is the most, this is the
generic sense, but then in, in different contexts, it can have more specific reference. So, um,
yeah, like you could, uh, you could use the word anoint today, uh, you know, if somebody, uh,
if you hit somebody with, with something that was wet and, you know, knocked him out and they,
and they got all their face wet, you could say you anointed him just to be funny. Like, um,
so the word has this kind of generic sense, but in that context, there's all that additional,
semantic content that's associated with it, with, uh, with the generic sense. And this gets into
some complexities of how, of how language works. Um, but now his, in his book, The Chemical Muse,
he makes the case that during this time, that during this classical period, this classical era,
that life was, was absolutely brutal and terrible. People were not dying from heart disease. People
were not dying from old age. People were dying from hand to hand combat, plague and famine.
And he was, he was making the case that, that medicine and drugs, which weren't distinguished,
there wasn't really a difference, were, were ubiquitous everywhere. People needed them just to
heal from wounds, from battle, um, from everything to get through the day, basically. And he was
saying it wasn't drugs as we look at it, as we, as we look at drugs today, right? We have the
war on drugs. We have the schedule system of scheduling drugs on, depending on how bad they
are, what the crime is going to be, or how much jail time you're going to get. That, that did
not exist. It was just, it was just, they were viewed as medicines and ways for these people to
get through life and to make life more bearable. So he's saying that because he's, I think he's,
he's connecting the dots here. I think, I think he's kind of using that. That was what his dissertation
was about. And he's taking the meanings, like you look up the word for Christ, and it means to apply
an homage. He's connecting the dots there with drugs. And he also showed a passage from, um,
what was it? Was it Euphrates? Europe? I saved it and I emailed you, but there's a passage he
showed me. Is this, is this it? Why do famous Greek authors like, okay, okay, yeah, this was an
example. Right. So this was from what? This was from line 516 of Euryphides of Hippolytus. Hippolytus.
The Greek is very simple. Um, so what, that's a sentence in Greek. And he's, he's saying translated,
it means what kind of drug is it? Is it a Christ or a potable? Meaning to potable means to drink it.
Yeah. So it's, is it topical? Or is it? Or is it something you consume? Yeah. Right. So this is,
anyways, my point, like this is, this is his point of view. You can see where he's coming from.
Yeah. And I don't, I don't disagree with, with the fact that they were using whatever they could
find to, um, to get by, you know, doTERRA is around today because people want to use whatever
they can find to, um, to try to cure what ills them. So, but to use that as an interpretive lens,
to try to entirely renegotiate what, what Christianity was, what Jesus was within early
Christianity is like, at least be able to use evidence from those texts because Eurypides has
no bearing whatsoever on how the author of the Gospel of Mark or how Paul, uh, were using the
term Christ. If you go look in their texts, they're not using it in a way that, um, that is amenable
to, uh, these other medical texts, like just the genre of text is different. It's not a medical text.
You have, uh, kind of Greco-Roman bios is, is part of, of what the Gospels are doing and, and
you've got a bunch of epistolary stuff, uh, a lot of paranetic stuff. Um, the context, the genre,
the way the words are being used, um, I don't see any support in there for, um, for taking that
understanding of the ancient world, which, which I agree is a valid one. And he knows a lot more
than I do about medical texts and, and, uh, classical and early Greek literature. Uh, but
the notion that that just overrules everything in, in the New Testament, I, um, that my understanding
is that as part of the argument that, uh, that he's making that Jesus was, uh, there was some
kind of purple stuff that Jesus was rubbing on everybody and everything. Yeah. That actually,
that was part of the Greek magical papyri. There was a, one of the first words that was translated
from there was the word purple. Yeah. I think from, uh, one of the Herculaneum papyri that
they were charged that they use the new technology to read. Yeah. Right. I think his whole point was
that the Bible completely misrepresents what the terms were or, or changes what the terms
actually originally meant, which paints a false narrative of what was actually going on. And,
and that's where I would want to see evidence from the Bible because it's not like the, um,
when you, when you talk about the original sources, the original texts, they're not
original to the Bible. They're earlier than the Bible, but the Bible would have to be coming,
would have to be literally or conceptually or in some way based on them for them to be the
original texts when we're talking about the Bible. The, the biblical texts are, they're using their
own traditions. They're using their own, uh, they're using the language in their own way.
And the idea of, uh, Christ as the anointed one, this one who is to be anointed by God
for this special purpose, that predates Christianity. That's, that's in the Septuagint,
that's in Greco-Roman period literature. So when we're talking about the original sources for what
we see in the New Testament, that's going to be Greco-Roman period Jewish literature. And the
usage that is in classical medical literature, that kind of usage, that's not in the Greco-Roman
period Jewish literature. And that's, um, I, I even, I think I responded to Amman's, uh, live
streams and show me, show me a text from early Judaism, early Christianity that uses the word
in this way. Cause just because it is used that way in other, uh, texts, doesn't mean it has to be.
In the older texts. Right. In the, in the classical Greek literature. And there's, and there's a
literature in Greek that is being used contemporary with the New Testament that can use it in these
ways as well. Well, he, I guess his point is that like, if, like, if you are trying to start a religion
and you are trying to develop a way of, of way of life and to, to somehow evolve your society,
right? With the religion. This goes back to like Plato's noble lie. Um, you, you don't want to have
it being based on, on drugs. You want to have, you want to have some sort of a positive outlook.
You want to, you want it to be positive. You don't want it to, you know, focus on things
like this. Maybe they wanted to later when they, when Christianity came about, maybe they wanted to
change it to make it fit a different sort of narrative.
Um, maybe, and, and I'm sure there were folks who thought of, uh, of drug use as something positive.
And so there's, there's certainly, uh, I think there certainly would have been an audience for
that kind of thing, but there's just no evidence within the, the literature, uh, the other material
remains the history of early Christianity that supports that. Uh, you know, some of the earliest
references we have to what the Christians were doing, uh, are just reports that they gather,
they sing hymns, uh, and you know, this is a religion for, for women and slaves and they
don't do anything wrong, but they're just a bunch of superstitious weirdos.
That's a, what's a, what's a religion for women and slaves?
Christianity. Oh, that was, that was, uh, Pliny the younger.
Oh, really? Yeah.
Huh. I think that's fine. Well, he, he has one of our earliest accounts of,
uh, of Christian meetings. There was a, a rule that he was supposed to be enforcing,
that people weren't supposed to be gathering together and he arrested some Christians for
doing that. And he was like, we, we tortured some of the slave girls and, um, all we could get out
of them is that they, they meet together in the morning and they send him, sing hymns to Jesus
as to a God and they're just a bunch of superstitious weirdos. So I, you know, I, uh,
I said, if you, uh, if you'll denounce Jesus, uh, you're free to go, otherwise you die.
And he wrote to, um, the emperor said, does, you know, I'm doing okay boss. And he said,
you're doing great kid. So, um, yeah, the, there's just no evidence that, that this is,
that Christianity was oriented toward anything like this, uh, in any of the literature. The only
reference we have to any kind of drugs in the New Testament is there's a reference to
pharmacia, which is, um, a Greek word that could be used to refer to like potions and, and poisons
and curses and things like that, but also to elixirs and, and, um, things that, you know, you
might, uh, rub on your forehead or might ingest. Uh, but there's, uh, there's a negative reference
to people who engage in, in pharmacia. And, and these days, you know, you hear just asinine
conspiracy theories about how, because that's the source of the word pharmacy. And so a lot of
people, uh, think, um, you know, the pharmaceutical industry is there for the antichrist or something.
That's amazing. It's all interconnected. So. Yeah. What, what, what is, uh, Christianity,
like when, when Christianity was developed, what was, was, um, what did they say about the
illusinian mysteries? I don't know that we have much, uh, at all about, about that. I mean,
not really the closest you have, I think is, uh, there are some folks who, who think they're,
there may have been some overlap between Christianity and myth racism, just because
they were kind of both seen as mystery cults. Uh, and then there's, there are some who think
there's some, there's a kind of a Bacchic background to Christianity. Uh, there may be
some influence from the Bacchai on, um, like the, the gospel of Mark, for instance, some of the ways
that Jesus is represented in some of the gospels kind of mirror. What is Bacchic? Uh, the, the Bacchai
is a, uh, a story associated with, uh, Dionysus and, and mysteries and, and people who, who dance
in frolic and, and get drunk on wine and stuff like that. Um, and, uh, the Bacchai is the, is this
famous, um, piece of literature. And there, there've been scholars who suggest some of the imagery
in some of the gospel accounts is riffing on what's going on in, in the Bacchic literature.
Okay. Um, and some people see, uh, particularly in the, the Johannine representation of Jesus.
So Jesus in the gospel of John, particularly his relationship with wine, um, kind of, uh, hints
at Dionysus a little bit. So there's some ways some of the writers of the, the New Testament
literature are, are pulling in some imagery from, from the Greco-Roman world and some,
and from, uh, the mythology to try to represent, uh, Jesus as kind of the true one who has all
this power and, and is sovereign over all these different aspects of the world. Um, and, and,
including, uh, the, the beginning of the gospel of Mark may be riffing on something,
something called the preene inscription, which, uh, is about, celebrates, uh, the good news,
the gospel of, uh, the coming into the world of the God Augustus, um, because it
uses a lot of the same terminology. Um, what, what do you make speaking to Mark? What do you speak,
what do you think of Oman's interpretation of the scene in the public park where Jesus was
arrested at 4 a.m. with the kid? Yeah, that's, um, I, I think that's wildly over-interpreting
things. Uh, there's, there's just a kid with a, with like a, uh, a cloak on or some kind of piece
of fabric. He says, he claims it was a medical bandage. He claims the Greek word means medical
bandage. Like if, if, if you have a text where he says, so the doctor applied a blank to his wound,
you could interpret it as medical bandage, but if you just see the word on its own, it does not mean.
Oh really? No. Okay. So it's, uh, the idea there is that there was a kid who just had something
wrapped around him to keep warm and they were like, come here kid. And they grabbed it and he
ran off and they were left with the piece of fabric in his hand. Yeah. So you just see, um,
him scurrying away nude. So, um, the notion that there was anything sexualized about that or that
it had anything to do with drugs or antidotes to drugs and supported by anything at all.
And did, is it true that he, that Jesus said, I'm not a laystace?
Um, I don't know which parties, uh, when the, when the, when the people came
to arrest him, the cops, when they got there and they had other weapons and he was like in a,
in a state of mania, he says, Jesus was like, he was overwhelmed and he was in this state of mania.
And he says, I am not a laystace. Uh, that's something that can be interpreted, uh, a variety
of ways as well. It's not, it's not indicative of any kind of, uh, all, you know, enhanced or
alternate state or anything like that. It doesn't mean he's, because they use a lot of words to
refer to Jesus being kind of overcome with, with sorrow and grief and, and things like that.
And sometimes they're, they're overinterpreted when it's, uh, I think some of the translations,
uh, should probably relax a little bit. It's, it's more like he said it in, in this kind of,
in this kind of voice, not necessarily. No. So what, what, what, what Omn was saying,
what, what passage is it? Cause I can look up the passage and we can find out no idea.
He said, I think, I believe he said it was in Mark 14 or 14 or 15, I want to say he said.
Anyways, he said that, um, he says that the word laystace means human trafficker.
And he says that human traffickers were also everywhere in that, in that time.
He says there was pirates, there was traffickers. I mean, even he said Julius Caesar was captured
by human traffickers or tra, traffickers. And, uh, when Julius Caesar, like he says that in Julius
Caesar's account, he actually calls these guys laystace, a lace die or something like that.
And then he goes and crucifies these guys that, that captured him when he, when he gets
ran some and catches them. Yeah. I know there was, there was a lot of human trafficking going on
because you had, um, you know, the, the society was even more stratified than that it is now.
So you had a lot of people who were enslaved and then you had, you had different types of
enslaved people. And so, um, yeah, I'm sure there was a lot of that going on, particularly in the,
in the more, um, densely populated areas. So yeah. So his point about that was, you know,
why is this guy saying I'm not a laystace, which means I'm not a human trafficker when this boy
is with him and the boy runs away. And then, um, he goes and he says the next day he's crucified
in between two other laystace. He says the guys that were crucified next to him were human traffickers.
So the, I know that the terms, um, when it's talking about the, so human trafficking wasn't a,
from what I know from, uh, first century Rome, human trafficking wasn't one of the,
the crimes that was punishable by crucifixion. It was, uh, the, the word that they, that they
used to describe the, the criminals, I think in the later texts it calls them thieves, but,
but they're, they're brigands. They're, um, uh, because it was, um, shoot.
Steve, maybe you can find that Greek word and we can punch it in that thing again.
Yeah. There's a, um, I'm, I'm trying to think of the English word.
It was basically, um, oh, it's sedition that was punishable by crucifixion. Yeah.
What does that mean?
So that's, uh, trying to revolt against the state.
Okay. Um, okay.
But the, um, so the, they would have been people who were, were probably, uh,
revolutionaries or, uh, people who were attacking, um, the, uh, the Roman rulers or, or things like
that. Uh, I know if thieves is not, is not right.
Go back, Steve, to that long list.
Yeah. Um, go down. It says, it says on the right, kind of like what they all mean.
Yeah. Plundering, uh, booty, spoil, taken as booty captive.
Uh, a robber. There you go.
It wasn't a lay state.
To seize, to carry off as booty.
Keep going.
It was like a pirate. I think this is it.
One of them said buccaneer, didn't it?
Yeah, but I think buckaroo is the right translation there.
Um, it's hard to every pronounce every, every, every way I can, I can spell it in the English
language. It doesn't, but, but you'll, you'll notice with these, uh, with these glosses as
well. Cause the, um, lexicons just use glosses, which are, which are basically here are equivalent
words. It's not necessarily saying this means when this happens in this context and this color
and all this other stuff. It's not a full, um, definition, but, but it's pretty generic, like
a robber, um, can be a lot of different things. And, you know, you might find a, um, if you
tell a story about a robber in a specific circumstance, and again, there's all this
additional semantic freight that goes along with, with the way the word is used, but that
doesn't mean that that is evoked with every single use of the word. Um, but yeah, the, the,
I, I don't think I know of any, uh, New Testament scholars who've, who would agree that the, the
other two people crucified alongside of Jesus were human traffickers. Um, it could have been
included in the broader notion of a, uh, someone who committed sedition or, or someone who was a
a brigand or something like that, but it certainly doesn't specifically refer to human trafficking.
And he says that the, but the word he uses that lay stays word is the same word that Julius Caesar
used for the guys that, um, captured and kidnapped him and that he crucified.
There it is. That's the word right there.
This is the Greek actual spelling. It's funny. It says predator. Yeah.
Whoa. Lay stays. That's the English. Um, but let's plug it in.
Maybe, yeah, yeah. Let's plug it in and then, um, we should find the actual passage in,
I think it's Mark, right? I've been looking at it. Oh, maybe it's Matthew. I don't know.
Anyway, so stick that in there, pump that in there. There we go. Okay. Here you go.
To be carried off as booty, to be one by force, a pirate or a robber.
And so that, that can refer to an incredibly wide variety of things. Okay. So, yeah,
a robber, high women, bandit, revolutionary insurrectionist, gorilla. So I think that
second sense, revolutionary insurrectionist, that's the kind of sense that would,
could merit crucifixion. Oh, that's not even here. You said, yeah,
where did you find the revolutionary? So, I'm, I'm looking in, uh, what, what scholars affectionately
know as B. Dagg, which is a Greek English lexicon of the New Testament and other early
Christian literature. So it isolates the usage of these words within early Christian literature
to show how they're being used in those contexts. Yeah. But wouldn't that kind of be a biased
translation? If they, if they don't, if they, if Jesus is saying he's not a laystace, they wouldn't
want Jesus to be saying he's not a, a, a predator, they would want him to be saying
he's not a revolutionary. Well, they, they look at all the, all the different places it's used to
see, um, to see how it's being used. Um, and I'd be interested to see the, uh, chart the usage of
this word to see in what genre of literature and what types of context it has used to refer specifically
to, uh, human traffickers. Cause Robert Highwayman banned it. That's pretty much anybody who's
waiting along the side of the road. Well, the guys that captured Julius Caesar,
wouldn't that be in the same context? Cause he was, but the context would indicate it.
So, I mean, I mean the same period in time, I'm sorry. Oh, it would be, yeah, near the same
period of time. It would be, it wouldn't be the same, uh, literary corpora. It's not the same
literature. And also, um, one of the big differences between what's going on in, uh,
the literature written by, um, Greek elites and the literature written by early Christians is,
is the Christians are using the Koine Greek, common Greek. This is street Greek.
It's the Greek that, um, you use as a second language. It's not, these are not people who
were raised reading Plato and Aristophanes and all these other people. And so this is, uh,
they're more closely related to classical Greek over and against, uh, the New Testament
Greek, which is generally referred to as Koine Greek, which means vulgar or common.
Okay. Um, and so they, they use words in, in different ways. And, and this is one of the
main points is that all the literature that, um, Amon is pointing to is exclusively classical
literature or literature, uh, from elites, uh, Greeks who are, are literally trained and, and
all that kind of stuff. I, I do see. What is, um, are you familiar? Sorry to interrupt you. Go
ahead. Well, I was just going to say, I, I have yet to see a single piece of evidence
actually from Christian literature to indicate that, uh, it's ever being used and anything
approximating the way, uh, he's describing it. There is, um, an, oh, you found the, the verse.
Mark 1451. Yeah. New international version. A young man wearing nothing but a linen garment
was following Jesus when they seized him. But what does it say? When does he say he's,
his response to the cops? Okay. Um, oh gosh, where'd it go?
Um, what was I going to say? Oh, are you familiar with Lucian?
Not, not very familiar now. It's been a while. So he wrote, he wrote, um, Lucian was another
example of a writer. I think this was like 150, I could be wrong here. Steve, you have to fact
check me on this. I think it was like 150 BC. Lucian was a, a poet and he wrote a story about a guy
named Alexander the false prophet who was a laystace. Um, and he's using the, he's using the context
to how Alexander, uh, the context that Lucian uses to describe this guy Alexander the false
prophet as this terrible, tyrannical laystace who's trafficking people and, and, and uses,
using them as like prost, putting them into like prostitution rings and all kinds of stuff.
I think he's using that for the main historical context for, um, that passage in Mark where Jesus
says, I'm not a laystace. Yeah, that's, so that wouldn't be relevant to what was going on on the
ground in, in that part of the world. Because it's, it's, we're, we're talking, uh, 200 years later,
200 plus years later and a different part of the world and, and a different, uh, type of literature
altogether. Um, can you Google Lucian so we can actually get the real story about what his deal
was when, when he was, sorry. But yeah, you, you need to be able to show that, that this usage
is actually going on in, in the text you're, you're looking at, you're asserting where it's
occurring, but I, I don't think there's anything in the New Testament that can plausibly, um,
scroll down about, yeah, there you go. 125. Wikipedia. Okay. So one, uh,
Oh, that is, that is CE. What is CE? What does that mean? So that's AD. That's AD, right.
So this, so this is a lot after. Yeah. Yeah. So, so this is saying he was 125 to 180 AD.
Right. Okay. So roughly about a hundred and something, a hundred years and change after.
Well, less than, uh, less than that for the actual composition of the Gospels. So there,
Gospels are, are 75, 70 CE to maybe 125 CE. Oh, really? Okay. Yeah. So that's,
So around the same time. It's closer in time. Yeah. It's, it's much similar, but, um,
That's also interesting. The Gospels are written then. And they're talking about this story of
Jesus being in a park, being arrested at 4am, a hundred years later. And Mark, the Gospel it's in,
Mark wasn't even there. Right. A bunch of it. Who, who were there? There was, uh, Paul, Peter,
Peter, James and John. Peter, James and John. Yeah. So why is it in Mark if he wasn't even there?
I don't know. I don't understand. Well, none of the, none of the Gospels were written by people
who were there. None of them are eyewitness accounts. They're all, uh, they're all later,
uh, people who are, are basically just committing the tradition to text. And,
Okay. Um, probably because they're getting far enough away from the actual life of Jesus,
that it's, nobody really has a plausible case to have actually heard the words of Jesus directly
from him. And so now it's, it's time to actually commit these words to text because there, there
was an idea initially that Jesus's words were, had more authority than the scriptures
because scripture means written things. So, um, words on a, on a page don't have as much authority
as, as spoken living words. So the whole, you know, you have read that Moses said this, well,
I say this is a way of, of suggesting that Jesus's words, uh, trump scripture, but,
Okay. um, once you get far enough away that nobody can say, I, I, you know, sat on my grandmother's
knee and heard the words of Jesus. Now it's, you kind of need the written words to ensure that they,
they actually get preserved, but you still have the continuation of this tradition of what they
called the agrafa, the unwritten things. So there were, there were traditions about Jesus that
weren't written down, but would continue to be communicated orally that were considered to be
of special authority because they remained unwritten. Um, so do you think this gives it
more merit? The fact that this was written, Lucian was around the same time those gospels were
written? I don't think so because, because there's a context that is, that is giving that word
more specific sense in the absence of a context that indicates what it means.
You've, uh, you've got to look at what it means most generically and, and then try to reason from
there what seems, why it's being used the way it is being used. Um, cause, you know, if I,
if I am on a street in San Antonio and I, uh, and I say the word boot, there's an image that's
going to pop up into, into people's heads. It's a generic term, but they're going to come up with
a very specific image. It's going to be something like a cowboy boot. If I'm in London and I say boot,
they're going to think either of an army boot or the trunk of a car because it's a different context.
Same word. Um, but the context is what determines, uh, the, the semantic content that gets evoked
for the hearer or the reader of the text. And there's just nothing in the New Testament that
points in this direction. So where did Lucian come from? Was he not in the same area?
He's close to the same area. I don't, I don't know where he was living when he was writing, but I know
he's, um, is this show you where he lived? Roman, Roman Syria? He was born in Roman Syria, died
and looked like Egypt. So it was near the same area. Uh, but yeah. Same area, same time. Yeah.
But the, the context is, is what's most important there. And I got to come up with some more.
Right. Uh, off the, off the, the cuff examples of, of contextual differences and, and contextual
uses of words. And it seems like every, in his definition, every single definition had something
to do with thievery or piracy or, or robbing. But what was the one that you looked up again?
What was the, what, what, you said you found a different definition. What was the website you
used? Uh, that, that was a lexicon, B-dag. B-dag? Yeah. That, that's just an, an acronym,
a Greek English lexicon of the New Testament and other early Christian literature.
Okay. And yeah, there were a bunch of different lexicons. So that, so, so, okay. So that basically
just references the, the Bible, the scriptures and, and, and figures out what the words meant
specifically in those scriptures. Well, it's the New Testament and the other Christian literatures,
usually the, the writings of the first couple of centuries after the New Testament was written.
Okay. So, okay. But, but yeah, that's generally considered kind of a, not a totally isolated,
but its own kind of linguistic corpus. Okay. The early Christian literature, because they're
talking, they're all talking to each other and they, they're sharing a lot of, a lot of background,
a lot of understanding and they're talking about the same themes. And so the, you know,
that's considered its own kind of corpus for analysis.
When it comes to the crucifixion of Jesus, why, what is the conventional understanding of why
he died so soon? Because it's the, the, isn't, isn't that the consensus that he died soon,
like quicker than he was supposed to when people get crucified. It takes a long time
that they come back and break their legs. So they, so they drop more and they suffocate.
But for him, he died like way earlier than he was supposed to.
Yeah. That's, that's what it says in one of the texts that they went to break his legs, but
he was already done. Yeah. And, and I don't know that there's anything historical about that.
However, that, that text is used to show that he was the, the perfect sacrifice because according
to Jewish custom, this specific type of sacrifice, you were not supposed to break any of the bones
of the animal. And so it was basically a way of telling the story in a way that makes Jesus
the fulfillment of, of prophecy. And I don't think, I don't know that we could demonstrate
one way or another that it actually happened that way. Right. Hold that thought. I gotta
take a leak real quick. We'll come back in five minutes. Oh, thank you. So this guy, he says,
he's a big fan of Dan. He's got a couple questions. The first one up here. Oh, this is a good one.
I appreciate his expertise in setting the sources and his responses to people.
Danny Jones, can you please ask Dan McClellan about his views on the people like Billy Carson,
whom he has made very critical response videos on YouTube about and the rise of the simplification
of the Sumerian creation stories and the Anunnaki. Does it feel like Billy Carson,
Billy Carson's teachings are dangerous? And why are people confusing Protestant teachings with
Catholic teachings and blaming primary Catholics and not Judaism or Islam for the misunderstandings
they have of the creation stories? Does Dan know where the Vatican have their secret archives?
I don't know where, where the Vatican archives are. I have, I've had friends who've gone and done
archival research at the Vatican, but I've, I was never a part of that. But the, the, the Anunnaki,
yeah, the, the favorite of everyone loves talking about the Anunnaki. Yeah. This primarily,
um, the result of, it's primarily coming from Zechariah Sitchin's fanciful translations of
the Sumerian literature and then also trying to kind of harmonize what's going on in Sumerian
and Akkadian literature with what's going on in the Bible. There are, there are resonances
between the two, but it's kind of trying to weave them together to make it the same historical
story. And so you get this idea about aliens coming to earth, looking for resources and,
and stuff like that. And then you've made videos, uh, responding to Billy Carson's videos?
Yeah, Billy Carson's made a lot of videos, uh, making ridiculous claims. He, when he talks
about Hebrew, uh, particularly the word Elohim, that's where I get the most annoyed because
what does he say about Elohim? Uh, that it means gods. And so Genesis really is talking about the
gods creating the earth, um, which is like something you would be disabused of in the
first semester of learning biblical Hebrew that it is grammatically plural, but it's overwhelmingly
used, uh, to refer to singular subjects. And, and there are, there's a lot of, uh, information on
why that is, but all you have to do is look at the verbs and the pronouns and, uh, or if they're
plural, then Elohim is being used to mean gods. Uh, if they're singular, then Elohim is being
used to mean God. Uh, but there, there are, there are a lot of folks who get a hold of
like a strong's concordance or something like that, or learn some little nugget and don't
really understand anything else about the languages. And so just go off on all kinds of ludicrous
tangents. Didn't he also say Yahweh meant something specific? I think he said it meant
Hale. Did he say it meant Hale Zeus? No, it's Jesus means. Oh, Jesus means Hale Zeus. Yeah.
No. And, and that's Hale Zeus would be, and Jesus has absolutely no relationship
etymologically whatsoever to Hale Zeus. That's, that's another thing where somebody was just
like, Hey, that reminds me of this other word that I know in English. And so maybe they're,
they're the same. And then unfortunately they go from saying, Oh, that reminds me of them to going on
public and saying, this is what it originally meant. They have no, no training whatsoever
in that. And there are a lot of claims about like, yeah, there, there are a lot of things.
I don't remember. It's interesting too, the similarity between the, the epic of Gilgamesh and
Noah. Is that just a coincidence? Well, it would be Utnapesh team and the, well, actually,
yeah, that's in, that's in Gilgamesh as well. The, the flood story pops up in a couple of places.
It's not a coincidence. They, they probably are borrowing the idea of the flood from the
version that was in circulation in Babylon around the middle of the first millennium BCE.
So the flood story first is inserted into one of the Sumerian king lists very, very early,
but it gets shared in a lot of different versions, first in Sumerian, then in Akkadian,
when the Judeans are in exile in Babylon, they're now surrounded by all of this. And a lot of what's
in the Bible is being written by the elite members of that community when they're back
in the land of Israel. And they're, they're kind of riffing on what's, what was going on in Babylon.
So they are, you know, the idea that these patriarchs are living for 8, 900 years,
that's based on a version of the Sumerian king list that was in circulation in Babylon in the
middle of the first millennium BCE. The flood story is probably based to some degree on that.
The, even Genesis one is kind of, it's heavily, heavily altering it, but it's kind of related to
the Enuma Elish creation story. In fact, the idea of a seven day week is probably borrowed from
what they were experiencing in Babylon.
Were they able to translate those tablets back then?
Sumerian tablets. Oh, in, when they were writing Genesis?
Yeah. No, no. So they were translated from Sumerian into Akkadian. So Akkadian is the
language of Assyria and Babylon. Sumerian is the language of Sumer. Now it, it survived for,
for quite a bit longer, but it was primarily Akkadian that the Neo Assyrians and the Neo
Babylonians were dealing with. And so when the Judeans were in exile, it would have been the
Akkadian literature and they would have learned, you know, they were there for, for many decades. So
they would have learned to, to engage with, with that language, with that literature.
And so they're, when they're kind of telling these charter myths and these origin stories,
it's being influenced by the way the Babylonians are representing the world. Only it's, it's their,
it's the, the Judean spin on it. And so, whereas in Enuma Elish you have Marduk doing battle with
Tiamat and splits are in half and one half becomes the, the waters above and the other half becomes
the waters beneath. It's, it's kind of de-deified to some degree, but you have God just by divine
fiat, just commanding things to be, but Tehum is the Hebrew for deep, which represents the waters
of creation that also gets split to the waters above and the waters beneath. But it's, so there,
there are little resonances here and there, but at least when it comes to the creation story,
they altered it pretty significantly. Yeah, the Anunnaki story is so bizarre, man. There's like,
like the, the, the idea that they, they created humans, they created a slave race of humans from,
from sacrificing one of the demigods or one of the other gods and mixing them with these
other beings and then creating these like sub-human or humans that would be the slave
race to terraform the earth for them. And they were called the Igigi. And then it was it,
Enlil was the one who decided to want, he wanted to save them.
And I think it was Enki. Enki, okay. Enki, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And yeah, but they, and one of the interesting things about the, the Akkadian literature,
a lot of people think that there's one consistent story, but there are dozens of
different stories. Like you've got multiple different creation accounts. Sometimes they
have some of the same characters. Sometimes they're different characters. You know, these are,
some of the earliest ones are separated from the later ones by more than a thousand years.
And so people want to try to harmonize it into one narrative and, and that just does,
does damage to all of it. But that's interesting. Who do you think is the, did you,
did you study any of the Sumerian stuff when you were in school?
A little bit in translation. I didn't ever study Sumerian.
Do you know who the, I wonder who the most authoritative scholar would be on this stuff?
I knew some, there are a handful of folks when I was at Oxford who were some of the
leading figures and, and Mesopotamian, but they're, they're retired now. So,
yeah, I know there are folks who could say at the drop of a hat, but all the,
all the people I'm thinking about are people I either knew or read when I was in graduate school.
There's a wonderful book by a guy named Lambert called the, I think it's called
Babylonian creation myth, which is a translation of the main, the main Akkadian creation myth.
So if somebody wanted a decent translation that was academically sound, that would be,
that would be the place to go for that. But yeah, there's, I don't know who it is these days.
Okay. But another thing I wanted to talk to you about was,
it seems to be a controversial idea that there are any pagan influences in Christianity. Is
this the case? Yeah, it depends on the degree to which people argue for pagan influence,
but yeah, it's, it's controversial. So how much pagan influence do you believe is in Christianity?
I think there was probably a little, a lot of people who came into Christianity
are coming from other traditions where they're going to keep doing some of the things that
they're doing. And like even today, you can visit different parts of the world and Christianity is
practiced in different ways because of frequently the preservation of indigenous traditions and
conventions that they just carried on. And so Christianity is not a monolith. There's, there
are a lot of different ways around the world and throughout time to be a Christian. And in the
earliest generations of Christianity, I think there was, there was definitely influence from
the Greco-Roman world. A lot of Greek philosophy gets into Christianity. I think there's probably
more influence from Greek philosophy than Greek mythology or paganism. But yeah, it depends on,
on what you're looking at, whether you're looking at ideas about divine mediation,
what the gods are like, where humans come from, morality, all that kind of stuff.
So first of all, I don't understand why, why is, why is that controversial in the first place?
Why, why do, so is the idea that, that Christianity was just this new thing that
developed in its own bubble that was completely in a vacuum from everything else? And why, why is that
so defended? Because most people who identify as Christian believe that this way of life,
this whole package is something that was delivered by God. And so they want to minimize the degree
to which social circumstances are, are influencing it. Most people, most thoughtful people will
recognize there's some degree of, of influence from the world around them, but there are usually
a handful of non-negotiable features of, of their belief that they don't want to, that they want to
have dropped ex nihilo from the heavens. That this is pure revelation. This is pure inspiration.
There is no borrowing or influence from paganism. So people tend to be pretty sensitive about that.
What about the idea of gods that die and resurrect? Like Persephone, Osiris, there's a ton of them.
So the, the idea that this is like a discreet category of deity, the dying and rising God comes
from Fraser, from the 19th century. And it is, it's an outdated anthropological model that is
used to try to like, if this is a discreet category, if you can define it by these features,
and then Jesus fits the definition, then you can just say, well, Jesus is just one of these other
deities, just like these other deities. It's kind of, it's kind of an archetype. It's just the way
people create deities. And that also means that Christianity is just kind of a product of the
natural interaction of human cognition and the environment around them, which also kind of
desacralizes things. So for people who are Christians, they tend to be pretty sensitive
about that as well. But, but scholars these days don't really think of the dying and rising God
motif as, as something that has much analytical value. No analytical value. Not a lot of analytical
value. Like it's, you can point to some parallels, but when it comes to analyzing the rise of
Christianity, I think most, most scholars who study that kind of thing would say the Jesus
tradition doesn't seem to have been based on any dying and rising God motif. More likely,
the, the idea of Jesus dying and rising is just a, a relic of the fact that
their Messiah died was, was executed. And the only way for this tradition to carry on
was for his followers to develop this tradition of his return to life. And so the fact that
Jesus dies and rises is, is more incidentally related to the dying and rising God motif than it is
inspired by it. So it's more of a coincidence, you think? I, I think it's more likely that the,
the whole resurrection motif is an outgrowth of Jesus's followers trying to cope than it is with,
because usually when people are suggesting Jesus as part of the dying and rising God tradition,
this is a part of a mythicist approach. The idea that there was no historical Jesus,
that it was all made up, and that it was patterned after the dying and rising God motif,
that's usually where that argument is going, that it's, it's there to support mythicism.
I think most scholars agree that there was a historical person named Jesus who was an itinerant
apocalyptic, apocalyptic preacher who was executed by the Roman state. And then shortly afterwards,
stories about him having come back to life began to circulate. So, and there are the ways the,
the tradition doesn't fit the dying and rising God motif, but I think most scholars would say
it's more likely incidental. Right, right. Now the word pagan actually means to be, what is the
word pagan? What is the actual definition of it? It's kind of like, it's almost like hillbilly.
Like a hillbilly, right. Yeah, initially it was, there were two different ways that it was used.
It could be used to refer to somebody who wasn't from the city, who was from out in the country,
or it was also a term that people used to refer to civilians as opposed to soldiers.
But yeah, it was, it was kind of a pejorative term to refer to the other guys over there.
Now, when Neil was on the show a couple of weeks ago, he blew my mind with this thing,
this festival, this ancient festival called the Hilaria Festival. And it was essentially like
Easter before Christianity. Do you remember this, Steve? We could, we could pull up the
Wikipedia and we could read about it, but do you remember what we were talking about? He was showing
there's the Hilaria Day of Merriment and Rejoicement. I can try to find some pictures.
Yeah, so what does this say? This says the Sibley Addis cult and in the Isis Osiris cult,
March 25th to November 3rd, respectively, it was one of the several days in the festival of Sibley
that honored Addis, her son lover, her son and lover. March 15th, his findings by Sibley among
the reeds on the bank of the river Gallus, March 22nd, his self mutilation, March 24th,
fasting and mourning at his death, March 25th, the Hilaria, rejoicing at the resurrection.
Some of the activities on the Hilaria resemble those associated with April Fool's Day, November 3rd,
and Hilaria of the Isis of Cyrus cult, marked by the resurrection of Osiris, the husband of Osiris.
Yeah, I don't know. He was showing, we were on some other page where he was explaining to,
he was explaining to us the dates of this festival and how it has to do with resurrection.
And there was like a Christmas tree, remember that?
Yeah, they would, yeah, they would bury a tree.
Oh yeah, they would bury a pine tree.
And then, and then what would happen?
I think it was just, it was like a, have you ever heard of this?
Oh, I'm aware of the festival. Some of these details are a little fuzzy though.
Mm-hmm. The idea is this was like a pagan festival that came before Christianity,
and it's very, very similar to Easter. How it's depicted.
Yeah. Well, the date of March 25th that is associated with when Christians
determined the, when they believe, one, when they believe Jesus was conceived,
and then the traditional date of the resurrection associated as it was with the Passover.
He was conceived on March 25th?
So there was an idea in the ancient world, in some ancient biographies, if they didn't know
when someone was born, they would associate the date of their death. If it was some kind
of spectacular death, they would link that with the date of their birth.
And with Jesus, he was, he died, the traditional date of his death was March 25th,
which was when the Passover was more or less, like these are movable things,
but March 25th became the traditional date. And instead of saying that was,
instead of associated that with Jesus' birth, they associated it with his conception.
And this is where we get the date of December 25th for Christmas, because that would be nine
months later. And you see that in around, around 210 CE, I think is when you have the first
calculation of when December 25th was determined to be his birthday, but March 25th, that's much
earlier. I found a hilarious, funny enough, Wikipedia has more information. Oh, wow.
So way down in here, they talk about,
Okay, the full, this is the thing, what we were looking at before, the full festival that can
be tentatively reconstructed as follows. Oh, yeah, yeah, you can, they talk about
felling a tree at one point, a pine tree is felled, there it is.
Tree is set up. And the tree is set up at the Temple of Sibley.
It's trunk wrapped with wool and its branches decked with wreaths and violets.
Then a day of mourning the next day, then a day later, the day of blood, frenzied rites,
including scorching and whipping, castration, castration rituals would take place on this day.
Well, they certainly didn't follow that, that didn't make its way into the Bible.
The tree is symbolically buried. And then March 25th is the day of joy, celebrating the resurrection
of Addis. This was the Hilaria proper, as opposed to the mournful tone of the previous days.
Then 26th was the day of rest, and the next day was the washing,
added by Marcus Aurelius, interesting. Possible ceremony at the Vatican sanctuary appears in the
calendar of Philocholists. Is that how you say that? Philocholists.
That's where we get the first reference to the celebration of Christmas.
Yeah, this is supposed to date. Now, when was this festival happening, Steve?
This happened. This says Salastius, writing in the fourth century AD described the basic
multi-day structure of the festival. But that was the writing. I remember it was like writing
was that late? No, the writing about it was, but the actual event was way earlier.
I remember. It's got to be in there. I remember we saw it. Maybe I typed in B.C.
B.C. No, it doesn't show up. I don't know. Well, then how do we even know this was before
Christianity? Sounds like it was. I think he had a source. I don't remember.
Interesting. Well, it's very similar. It's very similar, right? The resurrection and...
I'd be interested to see what sources predate, because Easter is one of the first Christian
celebrations that existed. We have pretty early evidence for that. I've never seen someone
produce evidence that the celebration of Easter, either the date or whatever features of the
celebration were associated with it were drawn from pagan sources. Normally, it is stuff that's
coming from centuries later. Then the Christmas tree thing is interesting, because we know how
the Christmas tree developed. That developed in the 1400s along a specific part of the Rhine
from within Christianity. If they did the pine tree thing, that's unassociated. It has no
relationship to Christmas, because Christmas trees don't even start being used by Christians for over
a thousand years after that. 1400s. I don't know that there's any relationship that can be asserted
between the pine tree in that festival and the Christmas tree. It's in Germany in the 1400s
when they first developed the idea of a Christmas tree.
In Germany? Really? In your experience, what do you think the biggest popular misconceptions are
about Christianity? There are a lot of them. I think one of them is the
mythicist idea that there was no historical Jesus that it was just stolen from pre-existing
pagan stuff or from the existing astrology or things like that. That's something I confront
frequently on social media, but I think that's limited to kind of a specific demographic.
It's usually folks who have some kind of ideological opposition to Christianity
that are quicker to adopt a mythicist position. Within Christianity, the one thing about the
Bible that I'm always harping against is this presupposition of univocality, the idea that the
Bible all speaks with one voice, that it can't disagree with each other. That's one of the
most frustrating things I run into talking to people about the whole Bible, but particularly
the New Testament. You'll see people when they're talking about the Bible, they'll say,
oh, you got this verse in Genesis, and this one in Mark, and this other one in Daniel,
and this other one in the Psalms, and they all mean the same thing. It's like, well, no, these are
passages written in three different languages over the course of almost a thousand years
by people living in different parts of the world, writing for different reasons
with very different perspectives. But the idea of the inspiration of the Bible means that all
the Bible has the same source. It's all coming from God, which also means that it's representing
a single perspective, and so they can't disagree. So there are no contradictions in the Bible,
is how it usually kind of bubbles to the surface, and the Bible is full of contradictions. It
contradicts itself all over the place between the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament, within
the New Testament, within the Hebrew Bible, individual books of the Bible contradict themselves,
and that is one of the things that some folks just refuse to consider, but there are absolutely
no data anywhere that support the notion that all of the Bible is speaking with a single voice.
But that's how it is most commonly used by Christians today.
Dude, I can't thank you enough for coming and doing this show. I really appreciate it.
Well, thank you for having me.
It's been really interesting. Tell people that are watching or listening, where they can
watch your videos, your YouTube channel, do you have a Twitter and website and all that stuff?
So I go by, my username is McClellan, M-A-K-L-E-L-A-N. It's a phonetic spelling of my last name
that I used when I lived in South America. And so I'm on TikTok, I'm on Instagram, Twitter,
and YouTube as well, I forgot about that one. And then I also have a podcast called the Data
Over Dogma podcast. My co-host Dan Beecher and I put out episodes every week talking about,
our goal is to increase access to the academic study of the Bible and religion and then combat
the spread of misinformation about the same. You lived in South America?
Yeah. Shortly after I joined the LDS church, I went on a two-year proselytizing mission. So I went
to Uruguay. So I lived in Uruguay for two years and learned to speak Castigiano.
Yeah. It was a fascinating life-changing experience.
Two years, huh? Yeah.
And you learned to speak the language? Oh, yeah.
Yeah. That's quick.
Well, yeah, I used to be fluent. I'm not as fluent as I used to be. Every now and then I'll do a
video for TikTok in Spanish and it confuses people. That's amazing.
But there's a whole world of Spanish-speaking social media out there about the Bible and
religion that I need to focus, dedicate more time to because there's tons of misinformation
being spread in Spanish as well and lots of other languages.
Cool, man. Thanks again. I really appreciate it. I'm going to link all your social media
stuff below so people can go down there and follow. I appreciate it.
And then we are going to keep going and we're going to do a Patreon Q&A with people on Patreon
that wanted you to answer their questions. So we're going to go do that now. Goodbye, everybody.
