All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are back with the Galactic Explorer, Mike Hanksdbeck,
our UFO correspondent.
It's great to be back.
Lots going on, guys.
Who is this?
Who is this Eric Von Danigan?
Eric Von Danigan.
Eric Von Danigan.
Eric Von Danigan.
He's a super interesting guy.
Forty years ago, he was really kind of a nobody, but had an idea that the aliens that people
were talking about, I guess the question that he asked at the beginning 40 years ago was
God an astronaut.
So that kind of made the industry and science kind of take a step back.
So he started looking at things from a perspective of why is everything flying?
Why are they talking about everything coming from the sky?
Why is it always heaven?
Why are they flying carpets?
These are flying horses flying.
When you start to look at them in those those periods of time, he started to believe that
these were all vehicles.
These were actual vehicles they were using in the people at the time just didn't know
how to put them into words.
There was no airplanes, you know, so it was a flying carpet.
And so he he started to travel around the world to really kind of see, OK, let's go
to one of the places he went to was a place called Puma Punca, Puma Punca.
It's a place in Mexico.
And he started to look at some of the stones that were so cut, they had done with some sort
of a tool and couldn't really understand how this happened.
Well, the Indians that had lived there for hundreds of years, even their folklore talks
about the the star people that come down.
So again, what I mean, we're talking about gods.
And so when you start to hear the same thing over and over again, you know, you travel
to the South America and you look at the pyramids and everything there is based on astrology.
The buildings are based on astrology, their religions based on astrology.
So then when you go to Peru, you find that same sense of knowledge on the planets on
where they are during certain times of the year.
You know, obviously, as you want to know when harvest is.
So people kind of just fall back on that.
But but like the Mayans, one of the peculiar things the Mayans were able to pick up on
the planet wobbles.
Yeah, I don't think we knew that till the 60s.
Maybe maybe the early part of the 50s.
But the Mayans knew that right from the get go.
So how did they know that the planet wobbles?
So are these again?
Now we start to look at the bigger picture.
You start talking about they have their the Mayans believed in flying serpents.
So you're like, well, was it really a serpent?
Or was it maybe these cigars that we see around today that every identifies with?
And they really didn't know have another name for him.
So Eric von Daniken really at that time.
Now, listen, he was also ostracized.
He was told that he's, you know, all you are is just a storymaker.
There's nothing real about what you're saying today.
And this went on for 40 years with him.
And today he's a leading advocate of cross the board on UFOs and phenomenal
aerial phenomena that we're seeing today.
So he is putting on huge presentations across the nation.
And, you know, people matter of fact, everything's just sold out.
Nobody. There's no no additional room.
There's just so many people want to hear what he has to say.
Where'd you hear about this guy?
It was actually kind of actually the book that he wrote was called Chariots of the God.
Oh, there was a movie made about it as well.
Sounds familiar.
And so the book really the book asked questions about particular pieces of artwork.
What are they trying to represent?
One of the Mayan kings is sitting in some sort of a device and they start looking at it.
He's controlling something with his feet.
He's got his hands on something and he's got his mouth on something.
And Eric von Daniken was the first guy to come out and say that is a he's in some sort
of a craft or some sort of a ship.
He's flying it.
So people from a pseudo science perspective, this guy is a raving lunatic.
I mean, he's just so far out there.
And today what they're finding out was and I think really what he brought to the
table was he went to Egypt, he went to South America, he went to Peru,
and he started finding the same thing at each of these locations.
And during this period of time, there was no communication between these people
still trying to understand how did the South Americans
right know to do pyramids?
Yeah. How did they do this in Egypt?
How did they do this in China?
There's pyramids now they're finding in China.
They just found more pyramids in Antarctica.
There's now they're saying there's pyramids in Bosnia.
So he has literally the awakening
is been something that has been obviously a long time happening.
But now people are really starting to see what he was talking about.
So now you look at Peru and they had these large faces with these big eyes
and you couldn't see these drawings unless you were in the sky.
So they go to Easter Island and in a cave underground.
And again, I'm curious is how these guys even had light in there to do this.
They carved those same faces into the stone.
Easter Island was just that it was an island.
It was 4,000 miles from any landmass.
Of course, these people are all extinct now.
They actually made these big heads and had them all surrounded on the island itself.
But they didn't.
Until the communication got what it is today,
we didn't know that these all these things were the same.
And now that they can start to travel and start to see, hey,
this was the same as here.
They're just calling it something different.
If you look at some of the the the very, very intricate carvings that were done.
These were concrete carvings, obviously, and everybody was carrying a purse.
And he started noticing that this purse seemed to be universal with the Egyptians,
with the with the the Mayans, with all these different groups.
And he started talking to a NASA astronaut one day
and the NASA astronaut pulled up a picture and all the astronauts
carry this life support system with them.
That's actually hooked up to their system as they're getting on to the to the rocket.
So he's like, what if they?
The people at that time were witnessing these guys
carrying some sort of a life support system with them,
but didn't know how to didn't know what it was.
So it just shows up as a purse on all these different drawings.
So it is. It's amazing.
And when you really start to think about the bigger picture of it,
because how could Peru know what South America was doing?
How could South America know what the Egyptians were doing?
Right. So it just became one of these things that where nobody really seemed to do that.
So Eric von Daniken started to do that.
He started to show everybody, hey, wait a minute.
How could they possibly know this?
Was this just a lucky guess?
Did they know that the pyramid or he went to,
I think one of the first places he ended up going was India.
And India had what do they call it?
They actually had a name for it, but they look like they were pyramids,
but they look like these flying craft called.
What were these things called here?
Hang on a second. Let me look it up real quick.
Aiden, go through your pictures.
This is probably in there.
It is. I put it in there. Oh, it's right here.
They're called Arunca Vamanas.
Okay. And they were actually flying vehicles.
And if you look at the towers, Aiden, it's this one right here.
Yeah, if you look at the towers, they built it's that one through India.
Dude, these towers are amazing.
They are so intricate.
There is so much going on with these actual towers
that you're like, well, we're guys in there with chisels.
Come on, man, you would break off the hand.
There'd be no way you could do some of the really small, intricate work
that's required to do.
So he started looking at, hey, how are they doing this?
What's causing this?
And India, even today, I think I'm going to put that on my bucket list
because it's definitely one of the most amazing places on the planet to go see
that makes you scratch your head and go, how could somebody do such intricate
artwork and it's hundreds and thousands of years old?
So he started to really look at that.
So then from there, he went to Egypt and started to talk to Egyptologists.
Now, Egyptologists.
Still don't have a view that this has anything to do with aliens.
They still believe it was all based on humankind.
Then there's two beliefs in this world.
You've got the scientific side that says, hey, we started from apes
and we kind of came down the road and you have a religious side that says, no.
You know, Jesus and God did all this and made us who we are today.
Whichever way you believe, we end up coming at the end.
We're the greatest thing on the planet.
So and yet there's got to be more to this in the bigger picture
than what's really going on.
We wouldn't have all this
information floating around today that so I mean, look at the guys
that would initially went with Dr. Greer.
They went to D.C.
They did project disclosure.
They brought in 40 military personnel that were all verified as who they were.
Now, Dr. Greer is a doctor who's an emergency room doctor.
Oh, there they are.
There's the OK.
What explain what these are?
Now, the center one, the Ramana.
Is that as big as you can get it, Aiden?
That is that is the actual craft they said they flew around in.
Oh, oh.
Now, the towers on either side are these are structures
that are in India today.
These are religious towers.
And what is that thing that goes through the center of them?
In the middle one or the in the middle one on each side is like two things that go up.
You know what?
I'm not sure they showed they were trying to show some sort of anti gravity
material that would actually let that thing take off and land.
But they talk about these things flying around in their religion
and actually having fights in the air shooting each other down.
So, of course, what did the Indians do?
They designed the buildings to look just like that flying craft did.
So, I mean, is that an accident?
And if you look at the detail, I mean, these things are huge.
Monstrous. And where are these at?
These are in India. India.
I mean, just just amazing.
So that's where from this is really where Eric Von Danigan
really started to put together this whole idea
that the gods were really astronauts.
And so he said it's one of the best places in the world to go
because so much of what they created is still there.
Now, do you think the like potential alien sightings back then
in those times, in the times of like the Mayans or the times of the ancient Egyptians,
do you think that aliens maybe weren't as sophisticated as they were
like in the nineties or in the eighties?
Because my question is because they have those those packs on them, right?
Those bags that you say would be like life support.
Right. But then you hear like stories of like the Zimbabwe encounter
where there was just these aliens wearing black suits
and they were just skin tight black suits as all I had.
And they were standing there just telepathically communicating with them.
And I've actually heard that a couple times.
Believe it or not, NASA has those same suits now.
They're getting rid of all the big heavy space suits.
They've gone to a skin like suit that's over your body that
almost which I'm wondering if over the time, if we've been visited
by different species of aliens.
Well, listen, Eric Von Danigan said to know no avail that
when the the shoot, I think of this group now,
one of the groups that were coming here, they were really kind of like fallen angels
and they were told, hey, the while you're here, let them let these people do their work.
There's no having any sex with them.
And they actually came down and ended up having sex with us.
So they believe through gene manipulation and through these things
actually spawning us, this is how we all kind of came to be.
And they believe this happened over about 50,000 years.
So there's this millions of years we hear about, you know, hey, you were an ape.
I don't I never kind of bought off on that to begin with.
I mean, you're an ape.
I said, well, why aren't we still changing?
Why aren't we still evolving?
I mean, I would think if it happened then, it would still be happening today.
Yeah, I don't see monkeys getting a whole lot smarter.
Elephants aren't talking. Yeah.
You know, so where would that at what point does it stop?
And also why the monkey?
Why not the elephant?
Yeah. Well, you know, listen, if you really look, if you go back
and look at the the gentleman who's the one who came up with this whole concept.
I mean, I'm cracking up.
His name slips my mind. Darwin Darwin.
Thank you very much.
He went to the Galapagos.
Looked at the islands here.
He only spent two weeks
and then came up with this idea that this is what happens.
And he did this through birds that were there because birds had
the same bird that was on a different island had a curved beak
so that he could reach inside these cactuses and pull out the seeds.
But it was the same bird on the other island that had a straight beak.
So he started to believe that through your environment,
that's what actually changed us.
But again, he spent two weeks there and all of a sudden that is law.
That's we all hear that now.
We all came. This is how we grew up.
It was, you know, chimpanzees and then we were walking.
And then all of a sudden now we're smart.
And so he he started to look at that and say, no, that can't be that it just can't.
It would still be happening today.
Yeah. Animals would be still changing.
We we would see in the last 10,000 years that something has happened to these animals.
And he goes, we're not seeing that.
He goes, so but if you go back and you start looking at when these guys started
talking about gods or there was even pictures and I meant to get some of these as well.
If you look at the 14th to 15th century,
these pictures that were actually painted and there's something up in the sky
in the back behind it, you know, whether it's the Virgin Mary and some guys
pointing at it and his dog looking at it.
So these things have been going on for so long that people didn't really
know what to call them.
And then listen, even through the 70s and 80s here, people were kind of you're
kind of a clown or a nutcase if you believed in this stuff.
You know, they've come out now and said that President
Kennedy was killed because he was going to release information on this.
Yeah, that's what a lot of people say.
So that's a popular belief.
Well, and what they did was in this and the way came up with this was supposedly
there's a burn document that was found, I want to say, like six or seven years ago
and somebody would turn it in to a Mufon group.
And it talked about.
What is what is Mufon?
Mufon is a mutual UFO network.
OK, they were created in the early 90s to kind of be that group
that really kind of investigates what's going really going on with no agenda.
They had no agenda, which is really kind of find out what the truth was.
So as this group started to mature, obviously, listen, it got bigger and bigger and bigger.
And now, like I said, when I've actually submitted some some films to these guys
on, hey, what am I looking at here?
What is this thing?
So they're a huge organization now.
I mean, a monster organization.
And they have now.
Implemented some programs with David Greer to who is Dr.
David Greer, who was Stephen Greer or Stephen Graham, sorry, who was the guy
responsible now for kind of bringing this this whole thing to the forefront
with with the 40 people that he brought.
One of the guys that was there talked about buildings being on the dark side of
the moon.
He was a he was in the Navy.
He had a top security clearance.
He said that when they brought him in, he was going to be handling video
and film that came back from combat missions.
And he goes, he got he got brought into a room one day.
He said, the guy said, stay here.
Wait, right here.
I'll be right back.
And he said, I hadn't even gotten my my clearance yet.
And he goes, so I'm standing in this dark room where they're developing a film.
And the guy says, hey, man, you want to see something really cool?
Come over here.
So he's like, oh, OK.
So he goes, I go over there and check it out.
And he starts showing me buildings on the dark side of the moon.
And he said to me, these aren't ours.
So, Aiden, that's your fucking cue, bro.
So when you start looking at that, you know, again, going back and kind of
looking at the bigger picture, like what?
So this guy can't be lying.
I mean, is he?
Would he really get up here?
Would all 40 of these people have such fantastic stories that you would say,
no, this guy's lying.
The one guy that talked about 40 different creatures that were coming here,
40 different aliens or 40 different terrestrials, ETs that were coming here.
The one of the former prime ministers of England said the US has been dealing
with a group called the Tall Whites for like the last 15 or 20 years.
I'm pretty sure this is the conversation they got a shadow band.
So that's probably what it got.
The Tall Whites, the Rockerfellers.
The Rockerfellers are in control.
They don't want us to do the Tall Whites.
They're they're very men in black.
No, explain.
These guys don't know about the Tall Whites.
We got it. We got to educate these these newbies on the Tall Whites.
The Tall Whites were a group of very Nordic looking extra terrestrials,
very tall, light hair, just very, very big.
There was some talk that in the early 30s that there was a guy that was
basically his name was Thor, and he was a Tall White and he was working
within the Senate and Congress.
So if you look him up online and you pull him up, this guy looks like
a very tall Nordic slack jawed, you know, just a really good looking human being
or alien, whatever he is.
Like a Viking, like more like a Viking than anything else,
like something on the Rumpelman's logo. Yeah, very cool.
I mean, but again, so this at the time.
Yeah, at the time when this guy from from Canada came out, he said, hey,
I don't know, look up Tall Whites now.
We're talking about Tall Whites.
Yeah, the Tall Whites.
Whatever we're talking about, just try to aliens and they're aliens.
But he said that, you know, UFOs were as real as planes of flare over your house.
I mean, there he was just he said, there's no denying it.
They're there. We know they're there.
Whether the government wants to talk about it.
And I think, again, you know, in the bigger picture that if if the planet,
let's just say the these are the Tall Whites Elon Musk, there we go.
Others talk about it.
But that see the blonde next to him.
That's that's really kind of what they say they look like right there.
Now, I see our boy up there at the top.
Yeah, right.
Good one up there.
No, the next one over right there.
Edward Snowden, Edward Snowden.
He's a tall white.
So well, I mean, listen, he's he's living in Russia right now.
And I'm sure they're going to let him stay there as long as he can continue
to tell them secrets, because once he runs out of secrets,
he's coming back to the U.S. Yeah, they're going to send his ass back.
I don't know. I don't know.
I don't think he I mean, he's definitely not going to come back to the U.S.
because he's going to go to prison if he does.
Well, I was just saying it wouldn't be it wouldn't be a choice.
Yeah, it wouldn't be.
They would the Russians will hand him over as a hey, I know you guys want this guy.
So here we're your friends.
I think the Russians are keeping him or letting him sit there and be safe
and be comfy because it's kind of like a fuck you to America.
I definitely go with that.
I definitely go with that for sure.
They like I say, I think that they think they've got the upper upper hand
with having a guy like him. Yeah.
So I mean, I've listened to him talk.
He's definitely a smart guy, definitely an Intel guy for sure.
Yeah. You know, as he played in the game, probably.
But somebody somewhere is dealing with and I think this is how it works out.
I think each country has found a UFO.
And I think that each country is kind of doing what they do
to develop that information as quickly as possible.
And I think whoever's running the show is kind of watching that, trying to figure
out, OK, who's my best student here?
Who's really the smartest of all the groups?
Do you think it's like an episode of Shark Tank where they're just like
waiting for the best investment? I do. I do. I think I think there's a couple
things going on. And I think we talked about this last time.
I think that when you go back and if you look at humanity and how many times
we've been wiped off the planet and you're back on the planet and wiped off
the planet again and whether this is through natural selection or if it's
through the great flood or if it's through some sort of virus or disease.
Or meteor. Meteor, whatever it was, would kill everybody off.
And then all of a sudden, somehow the earth would be populate.
And so today there's more people on the planet today than ever recorded history.
Why is that?
And I think if you look at one thing that has changed more so than anything,
it's it's the way that we develop and, you know, cast out from our cars
all the carbon dioxide. The planet likes carbon dioxide.
The trees like carbon dioxide.
So I think that we became so good at that that that's really what they wanted.
So I think we're kind of like a bacteria. I don't think, you know,
it's the same way as if we see a bug on the ground and we kind of look at it
and walk over it. I think they kind of do the same thing with us.
And I think they monitor us, though, to obviously see what the health of us is.
You know, you want the bacteria to keep doing what it's doing.
And I think when you look at kind of the history of mankind, I mean,
we live near the water, we overpopulate, we destroy everything.
You know, if you look at a good virus or a good, you know,
toe fungus, you know, and pretty soon all of a sudden the toe fungus has taken
the nail off. And I think that's kind of what happens here.
And I think so they start to watch that here recently in Egypt.
They're now let me back up about 40 years ago in the Sinai Desert,
they found this green glass and they couldn't really figure out where
the green glass came from other than the guys who were head of our nuclear
program here back in the States knew that when they set these bombs off in
Vegas and lost in Nevada, that they right near the center of where the
blast was, the sand would melt, it would turn green.
So they came back and started looking at the rocks and like, well, I mean,
check this out. They found one of the King Tutts coffin.
They found this green beetle and they couldn't figure out where this
green beetle came from. Where did they get the stone from?
And they said it's definitely from, you know, find the green beetle.
Four thousand degrees when it takes them to melt sand.
So it's an it's obviously a big event that takes place.
The Egyptologists have always said, well, it's a it was a meteor strike.
Well, I mean, the ancient alien guys like, OK, well, where where did it hit?
Well, you know, the sands can carry can cover up everything.
They cover up pyramids. So they kind of had, OK, we'll take a backseat to this.
Um, four weeks ago, they found a carved picture of what looks like a bomb.
I mean, just like the bomb, if you look at the number, what the bomb looks like.
It's a guy dropping it from his hand and on the left side or on the right
side of the picture is this mushroom cloud.
So they just found this. So now the Egyptologists are going like, aha.
You know, it's too peculiar.
And I think if you look, I think those pictures are up there, too.
I think I gave you those pictures.
Yeah. So they also had spaceships that were on there or extraterrestrial crafts
that were look like your traditional saucer that they outlined as well.
So three weeks before that, they found these hands.
They were steel metal hands.
They found 16 pairs that were 3,600 years old.
So it's these type of things that make you go, well, hold on a second, man.
All right. Well, all right, let's do this.
How do you know they're 3,600 years old?
Yeah. What do you think is the most legitimate, verifiable
evidence that we have of aliens?
Like, I know there's all these crazy things people find.
And, you know, you can find this hieroglyphic of a hydrogen bomb, you know,
or see all these things and you can make all these these assumptions about it
or all these connections to it.
But what do you think is like the most concrete evidence of this stuff
or the most concrete like encounter or sighting or whatever it is?
Well, and well, here's the thing, no matter, you know, it's funny.
If you talk about certain events of people, well, if I could just see
what Bigfoot looks like and then you get a picture like, well, that's not,
that's not really him. That's not. Oh, no.
I think you're going to have a problem.
I think even if tomorrow if aliens landed and we're shaking everybody's hand
and going, OK, we're here, there's still be people going, no, that's not real.
That's not real. That's all. That's.
So I don't think there's any one event.
I think it's more when Eric Von Danigan came out
and started saying what he was saying, the scientific community
was looking at him like with pseudoscience.
You're an idiot.
But for whatever reason, the rest of the planet started to get it.
They started to see the same things that he was seeing.
I mean, you know, does God really fly around on a carpet?
Some of the flying around on a carpet.
They wouldn't have said Aladdin. I mean, yeah.
So these things that are flying and there's wars going on and these things
that are happening have to be looked at more than just like,
well, just somebody's great imagination.
Well, no, that's that's not that's that's your opinion.
But when you look at each of the cultures that are out there,
they all seem to have something unique about what they do.
But it's also shared.
So again, when you start looking at the stars and we start talking about astrology,
we start talking about different times of the year,
they all seem to have the same thing in common.
But they all couldn't be so good with the stars and planets.
I mean, I don't know if you guys have ever tried to track like Venus,
but it's crazy because it moves so fast across the sky.
Even in the summertime, when we go from summertime to wintertime,
the sun moves real quick.
And so it moves, actually, the sun moves farther north.
And it does it like in a couple of weeks because as the earth starts to rotate around.
But how would you know that back then?
I mean, where do these people get their knowledge to even ask that question?
Yeah, what what do they say about for them to actually for
the Egyptians or the minds or whoever it was that
were able to account for the the equal.
Is it what's called the wobble?
It's called the equinox. The equinox of the wobble, correct.
I can't remember exactly, but it was like you would need to take measurements
for like over a hundred years or something like that
to be able to account for the wobble of the earth to pick up.
It was more than that.
It was like maybe like maybe like five hundred years or something.
It could have been. Yeah, it could have been some crazy number because again,
now the wobble happens yearly.
That's what gives us our seasons.
You know, as it as it kind of, you know, if the plane is like this
and it kind of rocks this way, North now has become farther down
and you start to work yourself up and it becomes a whole different.
Yeah, it's the equinox, the equinox.
I mean, you can really tell by the way the light changes, too,
when it starts to shift, because the way the light hits in the summer
definitely hits different than. Oh, yeah, for sure.
I mean, my grass knows and I can see it in the yard.
I've actually got some things marked like where the first day of winter is
and where the first day of summer is that you can track it by the shadows.
And that's exactly a nice put rocks by it.
And of course, it's my own little thing that I've done there.
But so going back and look at what they've done, you're like, OK, I get that.
But, you know, of course, the question comes up, where do these cultures go?
Where do the Egyptians go? Where do the Mayans go?
You know, all those they got, they got mixed up with the Spanish
and the Spanish had diseases and they died because that's just too convenient.
Mike, was there a time convenient?
Was there a time in your life before?
Like, was there a time or like some sort of
event that happened where you just started paying attention to the sky?
Or was it a time you just never because I can remember a time like up until recently,
I never pay attention or look at the sky ever during the day.
Sure. Like, like who, how many people?
Actually take a couple minutes of the day to pay attention to what's going on.
They don't you're too busy on your phone, you're driving,
you're looking at your laptop, you're working on your computer, whatever you're doing,
talking to somebody like very, I bet you less than one percent of people
on on the planet spend more than five minutes a day
looking at paying attention to what's going on in the sky.
Sure. Let's see an airplane or a helicopter, something that catches your attention.
You got to blow down and let the light in, man.
Yeah, look up.
Well, I think, too, that some people you're either what I've noticed with some people
is that they're more aware of things than others.
And it's almost a natural thing.
You know, again, kind of, for instance, I'm with a bunch of guys.
We're traveling, we're doing a big pack, pack trip through the mountains.
I happen to see a deer with a fawn and they're they're kind of jumping around.
And she's playing with this little thing.
And I didn't get a chance to stop and see the other guys yet, so they can even see it.
So as I turned around to talk to them to the other guys,
we were the group had seen the same thing, but the other four were completely oblivious to it.
So some people just have that natural ability, I think, to be
more interested in what's going on, you know, stargazing.
So stargazing starts at a stargazing and all of a sudden you see something like, well, what is that?
Why is it doing that?
So that's where I mean, for me, as a Boy Scout, that's what kind of started for me.
Right.
We're out camping one night, we're all kind of having a fun time
and we see a look like a meteorite.
And it probably was, you know, but I was like, wow, I can see that with my eyes,
you know, being a young guy, you don't realize that.
And so you start looking at additional things.
And even in our last podcast, we talked about, I want to say it was 94.
I'm coming back from Tampa.
It's four o'clock in the afternoon.
And there's this great, big, great football
shaped thing at the top of the tower, right?
Since that picture of where the building was next to it.
You talked about that in the last podcast, and there was other people
coming in the comments saying they saw the same thing.
Really? Yes. See.
So when I saw that, at that time, I'm like, it's four o'clock in the afternoon,
it's rush hour traffic.
And I'm looking at this thing like, nobody else is seeing that.
So I'm thinking, well, OK, it's a blimp and it got off
and it's got caught at the top of the tower.
Yeah, yeah, the weird thing was that the line, there was a line that went
from the, from this, whatever it was to the top of the tower.
But it had a, it was, there was slack in it.
It wasn't pulled tight.
So I know this is a 500 foot tower.
I know that 500 feet above the ground, that wind is whipping pretty good.
So that thing would have been moving, but it didn't move at all.
And I really, I mean, you're so like, well, if nobody else is paying attention
to it, it can't be really anything.
All right.
But I couldn't get that thing off of my mind.
And so at the time, there was nothing there to say, wow,
what was as big as that building?
They built this 10 story building almost right next to the tower
when you're coming across out of Franklin Bridge, so you can see it.
And I'm, I'm like, it was as big as that building.
It literally was as big as that building.
And so I probably eight or nine months after the fact, I actually
went to this facility, it's still there.
There's a huge fence around it.
You can't get into the building.
You're not going to walk into it.
You have to, there's a security.
So I rang the buzzer and the guys like, hey, all deliveries go around back.
I'm like, listen, I'm, I don't have a delivery.
I got a question for you though.
And he's like, yeah, what is it?
And I said, hey, about nine months ago, I saw something at the top of your tower
that was either caught on the tower on it, trying to confirm it was there.
And the first thing he said to me is, sir, I want you to get off the property.
I'm like, excuse me.
I'm just asking us to get away.
And so he said, just get away from the fence.
And then he wouldn't talk to me anymore.
There was no more questioning coming up.
So, you know, again, was that real?
It was something if people chimed in.
So they must have seen it also.
Well, that's what I'm seeing.
You can get away with so much shit in the air because no one's paying attention.
Nobody's staring at the sky.
Four o'clock in the afternoon.
Not a thing.
Not a thing.
Doesn't have to be that high.
It could probably just be like 10 feet in the air.
People wouldn't see it.
Dude, like I said, this was 500 feet.
This was 500 feet.
This wasn't like, you know, like you're even I watched the the the
space shuttle flew by here the other night.
Pretty cool.
It was in a great location.
Watch the whole thing go by.
If you didn't know it was a space shuttle, you would have thought it was a plane.
There was no flashing lights.
It was just a straight line, but it was a bright color light.
And this thing is moving at 25,000 miles an hour.
But it looked like a plane that was moving at four or 500 miles an hour.
Is that how fast the rockets go?
Twenty five.
Well, the the space shuttle does.
The space shuttle is 25,000 miles an hour.
God damn.
Well, see, that's why when they have like a part,
all this space debris up there floating around that it's moving also at 25,
it'll punch a hole.
Oh, yeah, right through the side of this thing.
So they're always constantly looking at space junk and trying to figure out.
But again, watching this thing go through the air.
I mean, you wouldn't if you didn't know it was coming through that night,
you just thought it was a plane.
I know the people was like, what are you doing?
I'm watching the space shuttle flabber.
I sure you are.
Whatever.
Go on.
Yeah.
Go enjoy your beer.
Yeah.
Where were you at?
I was over in Tampa.
I was doing some.
I had a lady over there I was working for.
And it was, you know, 10 o'clock at night.
It's in a great area.
It's a it's in a very, very well to do neighborhood.
It's at the end of the road right over the bay.
I've got a perfect view.
I can see everywhere.
I can see over to MacDill and I can see over down to the Howard Franklin.
Nice.
Right at the point.
Matter of fact, there's no houses there.
That lot is at the end of this piece of probably going for 10 million.
So just to give you an idea of the kind of the area that I'm in.
Yeah.
But nice and dark.
I mean, I can see everything out there
and just a really, really cool event to watch.
You watched it with like a binoculars?
No, just your eyes, man.
Just your eyes.
Didn't have any problem watching it whatsoever.
That's cool.
So those little type of events, you know,
they start to happen and then, you know,
my son had a couple of things happen.
He's like, dude, I just saw something so weird tonight.
You know, and this was in our neighborhood.
Now, if you look at this area we live in here.
Yeah, that's why I have a problem with this area
because there's not enough UFOs in this area.
If you look at the map, Aiden,
if you can find the map of UFO sightings in the United States
in the past 10 years, it shows you all of the reports.
People report UFO sightings every day.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And this is like one of the dead zones, the West Coast of Florida.
You think there might be more activity with the military base
because aren't they usually...
Well, it's funny you said that because I actually watched
they were doing special operations,
will run certain vehicles at certain times of the year.
So these ospreys they have that the Marines use for special operations.
They were flying them around one weekend.
And I knew that's what they were.
So I kind of went outside to go watch them.
And this is what I sent to move on.
As I'm watching this and I had my phone out
and I'm kind of zeroing in on this one osprey.
And I, you know, it's probably 25 or 30 miles away.
And I wasn't trying to videotape this,
but something shoots out of the side.
I like to have the aliens zoom out.
That works.
Crucial.
See, look at that, man.
Florida's looking a little hot.
Zoom in on Florida actually.
Florida's looking hot.
I thought they were all over on like the Cocoa Beach.
Whoa, we're looking real hot right now.
Holy shit, those are all you, Mike.
Dude, there's something in the air every single night.
Actually this area is looking pretty hot.
I'm way off.
I thought what I saw there was like none in this area.
And all the ones that I saw in Florida
were like centered around the Cocoa Beach area.
This one's definitely legit because of the picture over there.
People are more aware today.
You know, so they're kind of,
they're a lot more apt to report something today
than they were 10 years ago.
Everybody has a phone now, so they can pull it out
and record that event as well, whatever it is.
The Northeast is real hot.
I mean, so yeah, could all those people be wrong?
I have a question about the frequency.
Do you think that the increased frequency of UFO sightings
has anything to do with the privatization of space travel
now that it's moving to individuals
who might control our access to planets, moons,
interstellar space instead of governments
that they might be able to influence an individual
more than an entire government?
I think so.
Well, listen, the real key to the privatization of space
is so that you no longer can ask legal questions
to like, what's it called?
You know what you, you, what is it called?
You can actually go through and ask for certain data
from certain industries and ask for that data.
So, and I can't, there's an actual name point.
I can't write down something in my mind,
but you can go in and ask this.
When you're a private individual,
you're not required to give that.
Okay.
So Elon Musk, if you want to see what,
I mean, there's a whole group of people that say,
hey, we never went to the moon, we couldn't go.
We didn't have the capabilities of going then
and we certainly don't have the capabilities of going now
or we would have already been there.
So, they would petition, oh, the Freedom of Information Act.
They would petition NASA through the Freedom of Information Act
for information.
They had to give it up.
Elon Musk does not have to give it up.
He doesn't have to release anything to you
that's all privatized.
It's all intellectual property.
Correct.
Correct.
So Bigelow, Bigelow is another aerospace guy.
He used to own the Skinwalker Ranch.
Skinwalker Ranch is a huge thing going on with it right now.
I don't know if you guys have been watching that,
but it's really interesting.
Skinwalker Ranch is in Utah.
It's crazy.
It's crazy.
It's been based on aliens, UFOs.
Skinwalkers are a Navajo belief.
And when the Yutes, the Paiutes, and the Navajos were fighting,
the Yutes turned on the Navajos and supported the military.
Or the cavalry at the time.
And so the Navajos were made to walk from Arizona to New Mexico.
A lot of them died.
It was a, you know, it's an ugly story.
But they said because the Yutes did that to them
that they created this thing called the Skinwalker
and have cursed this area.
Well, the interesting thing is that this particular ranch,
the Skinwalker Ranch, was owned by several groups
who have all sold it.
The last guy that owned the place used to raise cattle.
And they were these real high end,
so he was really involved with what he did.
He got to know the sheriff at the time.
The sheriff was like, like to ride as well.
So one day they were talking and he said,
Hey, I'm missing three of my prize heifers.
I don't know where they're at.
There's someone here on the farm, but I don't know where they're at.
He said, Listen, let's get together Saturday.
We'll take the horses out.
We'll go ride and we'll go find them.
So they rode all day.
They couldn't find them.
So they came back and he said he wanted, he was,
I want to go in the one of the horse tables
and grab a hoof scrape to get some stuff
that was in his gut caught in his horse's hoof.
And he goes, when he walked over to this large room
and opened the door,
those three cows were in there stacked on top of each other.
Stacked how?
Stacked on.
They were standing on each other's backs.
Standing.
Standing.
They thought they were close to death,
but the sheriff said, No, there was snot coming out of his nose.
And it was still had like a,
you can see the bloodiest pumping the neck.
He said, If you pull them down,
maybe you put some water on them,
they might come back to life.
And they did.
So if they were, how are they not limp?
Like if their legs were.
I don't, they didn't get it all the details.
He just said, when I opened the door,
the cows were stacked on top of each other.
Now this is a sheriff.
And he's like, the people that own the property are obviously,
they're gone.
They're not even around anymore.
So on the.
What are you thinking?
It's just a really funny visual to see three cows
getting on top of each other.
How is that alien related?
What is, what's so scary about that?
I mean, other than being weird.
So on the last.
Sometimes it's all it takes to freak people out.
Just do something a little bit out of the ordinary.
Well, I think that's pretty out of the ordinary.
Yeah.
Well, even when he got there,
he said he never understood the,
but the guy had locks on everything,
locks on the doors inside, locks on the doors outside,
locks on the doors around the barns, locks on.
He goes, everything was locked up.
And he just said, hey, it's a very dangerous place.
And the sheriff said, I'd never, you know,
that's fine if that's, that's your deal, then that's your deal.
So on Tuesday night, the nephew of the last owner was on the show.
And they were talking to him and he said, he goes,
so what's it like to be out today?
He goes, it's just weird because of all the strange things that happen.
He goes, we'll talk to us a little bit.
What, what was really strange?
What was one of the first things you saw?
He got the guy said, well, hold on.
He goes, let me ask you about this.
He goes, there were three dogs that were killed out here.
And the guy goes, there was.
That day?
No, they were killed back in the mid 90s.
Okay.
And so he said, where were these dogs killed?
He goes, matter of fact, they were just killed over here.
Let's go take a look.
So they walk over to this particular area and he said,
so, well, we had heard that they had been killed.
And the guy said, well, not only were they killed,
they were crushed into the ground.
And the guy goes, what do you mean crushed into the ground?
He goes, like something came above the top of him
and crushed him into the ground.
There was also a big burn mark all the way around
each of the dogs on the ground.
The guy goes, well, how did that happen?
He goes, well, hold on.
He goes, let me back up.
He goes, we used to see these blue orbs.
And he goes, we always felt they were malevolent,
but we really didn't know.
And he goes, we're watching a blue and bounce down
off this mountaintop and it comes down
and it goes into the bushes.
And that's when our dogs started going crazy.
So the dogs chased him into the bushes.
And while we heard him yell, and when we walked inside there,
and the guy goes, oh, so this is what you heard?
And the guy said, no, I was there.
I was there the day this all went on.
He said two weeks later after this event had happened,
because my uncle started to really think,
hey, we need to get out of here.
This thing's going to kill one of us.
He goes, we're standing on the edge of the farm
and we're looking out over this ridge.
And he goes, this light comes up and he goes,
all of a sudden it looked like a door opening.
And he goes, it opened up.
Three items flew out of it.
He goes, they flew, and he pointed to a bunch of trees.
And he goes, they flew all over to these trees
and they were right down in the trees,
whatever they were looking for.
And he said they stopped doing that
and they flew back into the hole
and the whole closed up and it was gone.
So you got a question?
No.
This particular show, what they were doing
is they used a thermal camera.
They brought in a rabbi, and this rabbi began to say a prayer
that was based on portals.
They could open portals, he said.
So as he's going through this prayer,
they've got this thermal image camera on this place.
And all of a sudden, within mere moments,
they have a 27 degree drop.
The whole front of the building became cold.
And he's, now this guy is a, he's an astrophysicist.
He's like, I don't know what's causing.
This is the weirdest thing I've ever seen.
So they walk down there and the guy's like,
dude, it's like I walked into a refrigerator.
It's literally that cold here.
He goes, are we looking at some sort of a portal?
I see an eye.
I think it looks like an eye.
Is that a portal?
Maybe we're just only picking up
on the residual effects of it.
So there's something, again, now they're tying it in
with bigfoot.
They're tying it in with all the skinwalker animals.
These skinwalker animals have the ability
to change themselves into dogs or bears or some animal,
the birds.
And so all these different events that have been going on,
now they're trying to figure out a way to measure this.
Well, they kept finding all these crazy microwave
that were bouncing all over the place.
And some of them were borderline dangerous.
One of the guys, they were told,
hey, no digging on the property.
And the guy's like, what do you mean no digging on the property?
That's ridiculous.
This is a ranch.
I got to put poles in the ground.
This is ridiculous.
So he decided one day I got work to do.
So he starts to dig a hole.
Almost the same time he gets his,
he said, I got the worst headache that I've ever had.
He goes, it matter of fact, got so bad I had to go to the hospital.
Got to the hospital, had a bump on the top of my head.
He goes, the fatty part of my skin had separated from my skull.
And the doctor said, I've never seen anything like this in my life.
Well, he started talking to other guys and he goes,
that's what microwave energy will do to you.
So somebody was shooting some sort of a microwave energy beam at you
and hit you in the head.
And that's how they got created.
So on the last show, they started digging.
And they finally realized that some of this energy was magnetic.
And they had, they were bringing in different devices
and testing it to see what it was.
And they started digging again.
And then some weird things started, started flashing.
And he said, there's something moving underground.
Now, whether this is salt water and it's moving particles,
but we're picking up something that's moving
and it's moving pretty good.
At one point in the show, they, they, they dropped 45,000 gallons
of water into this crack and they don't know what the water went.
And this guy said, well, this is some sort of a pathway
or maybe it's water, but there's something going on here that's real.
So they actually started digging there.
And of course that's where the show ended this week.
So it just gets.
Where'd you watch this?
It's on the history channel.
It's on the history channel.
I mean, is that the one with the guy with the crazy hair?
The same channel.
That's ancient aliens.
Yeah, that's a different show.
Same, same, same channel.
Yeah.
So like I tried watching that show, like all these stories
sound fucking fascinating and I wanted to watch it.
And I, you know, I watch a lot of documentaries on this stuff.
And when I watched the front, my problem with it is I want to
believe it's so bad.
But then when I watch an episode of that show on the history channel,
it is just so produced and they slice it up.
Oh, sure.
And, and, and graphics are the downfall.
We know what it's like, you know, we know what it's like.
We have experience making those shows.
Absolutely.
We've done that before.
Like they're following a schedule.
They have a crew where they have like, okay at 12,
we're going to go dig over here and we got the phone that's
going to go crazy and we got to do that.
And I mean, there's, there's so much that you have to coordinate.
Absolutely.
But listen, the phone is going crazy.
That's, that's nothing you can do.
Like when the guy holds his one phone up, he goes,
whatever's happening right now is getting around my password.
I think you could do that.
You could do that.
You could definitely do that.
And that's it.
Listen, NSA can't do it.
Yeah, but you can do it with a video.
You could do it.
You can make a full screen video on your phone
and you can show it.
Listen, okay, I get that.
But listen, these guys are security guys.
I could make you one.
The one guy, well, unless I'm, again, I'm sure there's guys out there
that can do this, but he got these, here's the problem.
And I agree with what you say.
They're definitely telling these guys, but to see now,
the security guys are not the sharpest bunch in the group.
And the last thing you want these guys doing is just having
some dumb ass thing drop out of his mouth because,
that has nothing to do with anything.
When you say the security guys like the security guards there.
Security guards at the ranch.
Yeah.
Got security guys.
They work at the ranch.
They work at the ranch.
Okay.
And it's their, his basic job was Bigelow is the owner of it now.
Pull up a clip from on YouTube of the show.
It's called the skin Walker ranch on the history channel.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Or the secrets of skin Walker ranch.
I got a clip.
But he can play it on the TV.
So we get, so he gets the view.
Sounds kind of sexy.
Can I send this to you?
Skin Walker ranch.
The secrets of skin Walker ranch.
Dude, it is, let me tell you, dude.
I don't know.
Where is it at?
Utah, you said?
It's in Utah.
It's in Utah, yeah.
Is it all inclusive?
So like,
Like Sunnyvale?
Well, listen, when you see this guy tell the story about the dogs getting crushed into the
ground, those, those are facts.
So there's no way you can really dress that up.
Is there photos of it?
Not so much photos of it as there is the people who initially reported it.
So there's just reports.
Correct.
Correct.
Now, and the court is hard to believe reports.
Well, and again, listen, I'm with you.
Even the guy that's out there told you his name is, he's a, he's a physicist, astrophysicist.
What would you believe besides like your own eyes?
Here you go.
I mean, so, okay.
All right.
So he's the astrophysicist right there in the background.
Sure.
This is his chance.
This could be a guy.
He's one of those guys who made a bunch of money and he goes,
how can I be famous on TV?
I'll buy the skin Walker ranch and I'll sell a show to the history.
And he's got the money to expose it.
That could be it, bro.
But listen, that's it.
But here, now here's the other side of the coin.
When the last family that owned the ranch, they found material on the ranch that was
extraterrestrial.
They took pictures of it.
Now on the last show, they actually brought it up.
They brought him into the gun.
They go, so what happened to these things?
Because we sent him to Bigelow, but Bigelow won't give him to us back.
Now Bigelow said in the first show,
because Bigelow is doing real research on it.
He's not trying to make sell shows to the history.
No, no.
Well, listen, I think, I think this history channel stuff and these sensationalized
shows like this do a disservice to what's actually going on.
Because I think they make it look like a circus act.
They turn it into a circus.
Well, don't listen.
Don't forget.
Nobody has that perspective that you do because of your job.
So when they watch this again, what they're trying to do is get the story across without
having too much drama.
So the story is something's going on and it has been going on for 40 years, 50 years.
But that show, to me, is like over-dramaticize.
You know what I mean?
With the characters and the names and the music and setting everything up.
But it's on TV.
It has to be.
Yeah.
You got to sell ad space.
Nobody's going to, you can't sell the history channel a boring show.
Well, I mean, listen, this is what the history channel is.
It's just boring shit about history.
Its history channel is not boring.
That's just sick.
It's one of my favorites, man.
Especially with stuff like this.
Smoke a few joints, watch that channel.
It's not better than trailer park boys, but I mean, it's the next best thing.
Yeah.
But you're not trying to learn anything, except for how to retire at 35.
By the way, I watched the first episode of trailer park boys.
That's the most mind-numbing show I've ever seen in my life.
It's great, isn't it?
It's such a waste of time, but it's so good.
Especially if you're burning a fatty, sitting there and being like, I get it.
I get it.
It's all good.
Yeah.
So like I say, the facts are the facts.
Whether, like I say, when you start looking at what, hey, I don't want you to say this.
I want you to say that because you're a knuckle-drager and you're looking like an idiot.
You're making the show look stupid.
So last thing I want to have is a bunch of hillbillies walking around the set.
So if I tell you what to say, it's going to put you in a better bed.
It says, again, like you said, you're going to sell commercials now because it looks good.
But the facts are what they are.
The numbers, the information, you know, he's bringing gauges that read these microwave energy.
When he got burned because he pulled the top off of a, I look like a sewer,
just to look inside at the guy said, Hey, man, don't do that.
Don't take that off until we get a reading.
And he took it off.
I guess I'll never mind now.
He had radiation burns on his knuckle and above his eye.
So he had to have surgery on his knuckle to have some sort of bone growth taken out of the second.
He goes, yeah, the doctor told me that these radiation burns is exactly what it looks like
when we treat people with cancer on radiation.
Same difference.
Wow.
So, okay.
So before we got to the skin walker subject, you asked, what were we talking about?
We were talking about, you asked a question about, uh, like Amazon and,
Oh, the privatization of space flight and exploration.
Do you think with the increased, uh, volume of space sightings, UFO,
whatever you want to call it, does that coincide with the privatization of space flight,
space exploration, and everything that's going on in the private sector to try to
own the space experience?
And is it easier to influence an individual over entire governments?
Is it easier to influence an individual over entire governments?
What do you mean by that?
So like having a sit down with Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk, is that easier to control him
or try to work with?
From the aliens perspective.
From the aliens point of view.
Oh, yeah.
So would they be coming and like seeing what we're doing here?
Is it more convenient for them to try to negotiate with an individual who owns a company
versus entire government?
Maybe Elon is an alien.
Well, let's talk about that as well.
I mean, hmm, aren't we all?
Maybe he's one of them.
Maybe we are.
I mean, I showed Danny of a one, you know, of course, one of the big talks that I hear all
the time are the reptilians, the reptilians.
The reptilians, the reptilians.
So I sent Danny.
That's one of the most bogus ones in my opinion.
Well, like I said, now.
I like that one.
Well, it sounds ridiculous, but now.
How do you say it?
Like it's just like a kid's story.
Well, I like that episode.
It's very interesting.
And listen until you go here, a guy in Houston, Texas has a heart problem.
So they bring him in.
They realize all of a sudden that he doesn't have a four chambered heart.
He has a two chambered heart, just like a reptile.
Yeah, but that could just be a defect with a, you know, some people are born with.
That's convenient.
Some people are born with two heads.
He had a tail, too.
He had a tail.
He had a tail.
Can we find this guy?
So I sent you the information.
I saw that one guy that was on the Discovery Channel that transformed into a cat.
Yeah, but that was surgery.
That guy was fucking fucking.
I've seen the guys with the horns.
No plastic surgery.
Oh, okay.
So this guy was like born that way.
What about something about Mary?
That guy had a tail.
Yeah, he had a tail.
Well, I couldn't figure out, like I say, how, where does that heart come from?
Where does that, how does that happen?
Is that part of the genes?
A man with a two chambered heart and a tail.
Four or two.
Like we have a four chambered heart.
He had a two chambered heart.
Or maybe he was like planted here by the aliens
and they didn't give him the correct model of human.
I mean, the whole idea of the reptilians, of course, you know, I told you,
if you look at, I showed you that guy's eyes.
Yeah, it's like a cat.
Dude, I mean, they said when you're looking at these particular individuals
and you're looking at them on camera, you can see that they have, they have,
like the pupils aren't round or kind of like slitted eyes.
So you know about this shit.
So I've seen some videos of this on YouTube.
Yeah.
You think it's real?
Um, I mean, I couldn't confirm or deny if it's real, but no, I'm asking you.
I don't want you to confirm or deny.
I want to know what you think.
I don't know.
I think it's, I think it's possible.
I don't know.
Just watching the video.
Sounds like you're afraid of commitment here.
You're really afraid.
Oh, I'm just not sold a hundred percent.
Chains afraid of having a pinning on anything.
Look, would I bet on it?
I wouldn't bet on it.
Sometimes neutral is a good thing.
But I'm open for more, uh, more data on it.
Yeah, for sure.
Need to see what the odds are.
Well, listen, we look suspect.
Something's going on.
Well, listen, when you look at the Navy talk about it,
and now there's even been a show that came out,
they talked about during Vietnam that there was actually a unit that was a river,
river, marine patrol boat that got into a gunfight with one.
And he goes, when they started shooting at it,
it shot back.
And the man blew this vehicle out or blew the boat out of the water.
And when they, when the investigation was done,
the strange thing was that all the material they found in the boat was from the boat.
The rounds that hit the boat were from the boat.
The missile they launched was from the boat.
They were able to actually turn this thing around and use it against them.
You know, and again, these are, these are military guys.
It's one of the strangest stories you ever hear.
But all this, there hasn't been one story they've ever heard that went like,
wow, that sounds really interesting and true.
It's always the worst or the weirdest thing ever.
I mean, when this group of project disclosure came out and the one guy said,
hey, there's 40 different type of aliens we've had contact with here.
It sounds ridiculous.
Yet there's 40 of these guys.
This is all about pressing Congress to listen to this whole project disclosure.
We want to disclose the fact that UFOs are real.
So each of these guys that got up there,
they told these unbelievable stories and you're like, come on.
I mean, really?
But yet there they are telling the story.
They, they, they were proven of what they did in the military.
They prove they had the background.
They prove they had the security clearances.
You know, you had the guys there from the FDR, from the aviation FAA that were there.
They were talking about events that had taken place and that the CIA came in and said,
listen, this never happened.
I was never here.
And the guy started laughing.
Of course you're here.
Of course it happened.
We wouldn't be having this meeting if it didn't.
So there's obviously something going on in the bigger picture, whether definitely
I've heard we are our technology right now is like 400 years ahead of everybody else.
So you look at like David.
What do you mean everybody else?
Like the rest of the world, the rest of the world, America's technology is 400 years ahead.
What technology?
Antigravity.
Okay.
I never even heard of anti gravity until this year.
Until Bob Lazar.
Nope.
What Bob Lazar didn't bring it up.
No.
He talked about anti gravity, but nobody ever said we have anti gravity that's here and working
and we're dealing with it now.
That whole with David Flavor with that tic tac.
Yep.
They say that was ours.
We're doing that.
Some people say that.
Yeah.
Well, the group that just came out said, that's ours.
We're going to go in and we're going to come.
But again, which group?
Don't know.
Through the U.S.
That was Pentagon.
It was the Pentagon saying Pentagon said that that was ours.
That was ours.
It's all none of its.
No, no, no.
There was a no, no, no.
I think it was the New York Times article just came out two weeks ago.
It said that the headline of the New York Times article was there's no evidence that
this is alien.
Correct.
But it also didn't say we said they don't know what it is.
They came out and said it was ours.
Well, is it really ours?
Who's who's it really saying that?
But at the end of the day, they're definitely saying it wasn't an extraterrestrial.
But they also said the New York Times article also said they didn't know what it was.
Right.
But now all of a sudden there's more photos of it coming up.
Some other girls now have actually videotaped it from they were sitting on the ground
videotaping it.
So this is a new video taping the tic-tac.
Yeah.
Where flying between some mountains.
She's like, what is that?
I don't know what it is, but you look at it and you go like, that's the same.
Where did you see this?
I was on TV about two weeks ago.
David favorite.
You say now that looks at the same thing that favor saw the day that he was flying the plane.
And it's just going, you know, flying right through the mountains and just buzzing along.
Is there a video of this?
Oh, yeah.
The girl that took it.
She didn't know what it was.
Now, nobody said in the show that it was the tic-tac, but when you look at it, you're like,
dude, that's round.
It's long.
It looks just like what he was talking about.
There's no flying, no wings.
And like I said, there's just so much information coming out that it's hard to stay, you know,
up on it and stay, you know, where you need to be.
Is that like a full-time job?
Yeah.
Oh, it's definitely a full-time job.
Well, because listen to you.
There's a lot of fake stuff going on.
I mean, they were talking about now about drones and numbers that are going up in the air.
They had, they just recorded 14 UFOs around a Navy ship about a month ago.
And the Navy still doesn't know what they were, but they were all over the ship.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I saw that on the radar or on the, you know, again, was that us?
Was it not us?
You know, is it, are they trying to do that to see what, you know,
how these guys are going to respond to it from a military perspective?
I don't know.
My favorite out of all of the recorded encounters, I mean, like the, the abduction stories are crazy
with, with Betty.
Those are good.
Yeah.
Betty and Barney.
I want to get abducted.
You see what it's like?
I want it.
Have you heard the Betty and Barney White story or the Betty and Barney Hill?
And then who was the other guy?
Who's the dude who we were talking about the other day?
Yeah, there's a couple, well, there's a couple of guys.
The guy who was in Arizona who got abducted.
We were talking about it on the last podcast anyways.
But out of all of them, my favorite one is the Zimbabwe story because there's like 25 people
who all have the same exact story.
There's more than 25.
That's just like half the school saw it.
Yeah.
So in the nineties, like 1993 or something, a spaceship landed in a, in a field outside
of a school in Zimbabwe.
Allegedly.
And all 20 of the kids saw it.
So we don't get shadow bands.
We just like walk out and just like, it's just there.
Allegedly.
So we don't get shadow bands.
No, here's what they did.
They actually went back to the school and they brought back all the kids there.
The story is fucking bonkers because they had, they got a psychiatrist came and interviewed
all the kids and they were all like between the ages of like five and 10 or something.
And it's like, and I was like, high interest had them all draw pictures and talk about
the experience individually, right?
Separate from each other.
And all the kids had the same exact fucking story how these little creatures, childlike
figures came out of this space, this saucer and stood there and they were like within 10 feet of
them. And they all, or a couple of them that were closest to the aliens.
They said that they had these like visions in their head of like technology is bad.
Technology is going to be like the downfall of the human race.
And there was no like verbal talk, but they all like had these thoughts of like how technology
is bad. And they thought like now they're discovering it.
They were just, they just, there's this documentary just put out where they interviewed
them now and they're all like in their thirties, forties. And they're all like,
you know, recalling what happened back then.
The story hasn't changed after all this time.
The story hasn't changed at all yet because they interviewed all the kids back in the
nineties and they just interviewed them again just now. And they all like have been thinking
about it ever since. And they believe that it was just, you know, the aliens telepathically
communicating with the kids, thinking that they could get the message across to humanity that
whatever.
Well, those aliens need to practice what they preach if they're using crazy technology.
That's what I thought.
A bunch of hypocrites.
They are a bunch of hypocrites.
Maybe ours is going to destroy us like Terminator, whatever.
Everything's going to kill you.
How are you going to, how are you going to come down in some crazy anti-gravity
and some crazy anti-gravity spaceship and travel thousands of light years?
It's like, you know what? Technology sucks. Don't use it.
Yeah. Well, here's the interesting thing.
I'm going to fly away now.
Oh yeah. Right.
Well, one of the guys that I was talking to, and he was, we were talking about this whole thing,
because I don't think they're flying millions of miles. I think they're here.
But I also think with these portals, and he said, you know, if you think about,
he goes, just think if you were a fish, you were in the water, you were looking up.
And I took my boat and set my boat in the water.
Now you can see the bottom of my boat from, from the fishers perspective.
Oh yeah. Look at that.
He goes, if I picked that boat up in your mind's eye, that boat just disappeared.
So now I bring that boat over here and I set it down over here.
You're like, check that out. How did it get over there now?
So he goes, so what's ever on the other side of reality is that.
And he goes, so these things are moving around and sort of that same ideology.
He goes, but they're here. They've been here all along.
They're not traveling millions of miles.
There's more dimensions they can travel in.
Different forms of matter that we probably can't even see.
Right.
Like, like water, air, time, gravity.
Well, they just showed that one of the interesting things was this pilot in Alaska.
So he's been there for 40 years.
He goes, I've never seen anything like this.
They had a volcano erupt.
And he goes, so I'm flying some customers out to a to a place where they're going to be hunting.
And he goes, I look over the volcano.
And he goes, we kind of were getting a big path because it had been puffing out some smoke.
And he goes, but something in a cloud that was that was trying to hide in the cloud,
but was doing a terrible job.
But you could see it like a fat guy trying to hide behind a tree.
That's exactly it.
So he started taking pictures of it until it went into the volcano.
Damn.
And then later he said about five minutes after that happened,
this big green orb came out of it.
He took pictures of this green orb.
He goes, listen, I'm not saying they're UFOs.
I don't know what they are.
But whatever was going on was going on.
It was definitely a for sure.
So I think the orbs just like we saw because they're seeing more identical to what we saw that day
on other TV shows now with drones.
So whatever the drone is able to do, whether the drone is making a noise it likes to hear,
because all these things that one that you took the video of changed directions and came up
towards that.
Remember, you thought, hey, someone's shooting at my drone.
Even when I was watching this, somebody said that I left because this whatever the first
one came by a close and the second one like dude came by a real close.
Right.
And I just refer to him as dirty cotton balls.
But I think those whatever they are is that's part of the earth man.
The earth is a living entity and they are here protecting the earth.
Whatever they are because they seem to be always I've got.
I'm trying to get this from Tyler.
I took a video about four years ago of this thing.
It was night was in the wintertime.
Very cool out in the sky.
It was crystal clear.
And there was this ball of light and it was literally look like if you had a laser and
you were just kind of waving it around.
And I'm like, what the hell is that?
So the one thing that I noticed if I took my camera out and I tried to follow it.
What I noticed was if I took that camera and held it like on a planet and I moved it,
it looked like the light was moving and I was moving actually moving the camera.
That's not going to work.
So I had to position the camera to get this thing to fly through it.
So that you could actually see it right and I managed to do that.
So whatever this thing is and it was funny.
I had the feeling like it's having a good time.
It's fun.
It's like it's playing in the in the wind.
Whatever this thing was.
But that's what I feel these things are now that the extra terrestrials that are coming here.
If you go back and start looking at the Anunnaki and you start really looking at the Anunnaki
hard, they talk about they took us as humans because the Anunnaki and the Samarians didn't
want to be mining all this gold.
They ate gold back then because I said, listen, our bodies are electric.
And by eating gold, man, it just absolutely makes your body the most perfect, you know,
the way the system operates, just absolutely perfect.
That's what I tell myself when I drink a bottle of gold.
And it's that gold slugger doing a baby.
So he said so expensive.
So when they when they would do that, he said, so they decided they didn't want to dig for
this goal anymore.
So they started breeding with us.
And he was what they did was they changed the DNA and they made it so that we thought
about nothing but gold.
We haven't changed a whole lot.
We still think about gold today.
So more so about Bitcoin.
Definitely about Bitcoin.
Where's that going right now anyway?
No, down and up, down and up, down and up.
Nowhere fast.
No, no moon.
It was it was halfway there and then it took a U turn.
I forgot my keys.
Yeah.
Damn it.
That's my phone at home.
Actually, yeah, it was Elon and Saturn and I live really tanked Bitcoin.
Oh, it sucks.
Did they really?
I'm surprised that he did it because he's such a big guy involved with Bitcoin.
Yeah.
No, he said it wasn't.
It wasn't energy.
Environmental.
Environmentally friendly.
The way they mine it.
The carbon.
All of them.
So much computer processing.
But he did shout out Doecoin, I think.
Yeah.
That's what he wants to win.
Yeah.
I laughed because he said something in his last interview and somebody yelled
something from the crowd and he goes, I don't know.
I think it's 420.
Yeah.
And everybody kind of chuckled through the crack because when he smoked weed.
On Joe Rogan.
Oh, everybody was like, oh, you know, your stock's going to drop now.
My stock is going to drop me for the.
Yeah, exactly.
Drop for the day.
Come on, man.
The whole thing is ridiculous.
So but there's there's talk now that he is, you know, an extraterrestrial guy and it's.
No, but he's not.
He, he, uh, when, whenever people ask him about extraterrestrials or UFOs or aliens,
whatever, he thinks it's bogus.
He like brushes it off.
He's like, I don't even think about that.
Oh, because I don't want to be looking at my jeans.
Yeah.
So you would ever, I want you to get away from me.
So I'm nothing of the kind.
I don't even believe in that shit.
Yeah.
So it's funny that a guy like him doesn't believe in it.
He's like, he's like, he's like, if you can't find a picture or a video that looks like it's
that least shot on a modern day iPhone, he's like, you can stop wasting my time with it.
Yeah.
You know, I think that's just part of the propaganda.
Yeah.
That's kind of suspect that he's like flying around in space, not like personally,
but he's got all this space.
He's got a car in space waiting for him.
And he doesn't believe in aliens.
I'm not buying it.
There's got to be more to it.
I mean, there just can't be just us when you start looking at the bigger picture and what's
really going on.
Yeah.
You know, of course, we talked about this before.
I've never had a nightmare.
I've never, I don't have nightmares now.
I couldn't even tell you what a nightmare is.
But when I was like 11, I had something come in my room one night and it was more than one.
They were short.
They were small and it wasn't this big head stuff.
These kind of look like it sounds funny.
It sounded like a log and they had real long, flat heads.
And I don't know if there was probably six of them maybe that came in my room.
I tried to scream for my mom.
Why my mom?
I don't know.
You think you would scream for your dad in that case, but I was going to yell for my mom.
And I still remember it today, but I could not get it to come out.
And it sounds ridiculous, but one of them put a raincoat on and was dancing around my bed at it.
I mean, what, what, why would they do that?
Doesn't it sound scientific at all?
I mean, was it really somebody in my room then?
I don't know.
But it's the only time in here.
I'm 60 years old.
It's the only dream I ever had that I still think about today.
Oh, yeah.
So, you know, did I have a, wasn't it illusion?
I do.
I told you I was wide awake.
I don't remember what I did the next day.
I don't even remember, remember when I remembered this.
I don't remember if I told my parents about it,
but it was definitely one of those odd things that I, you know,
listen, I've never had a nightmare.
I don't, I don't have it today.
I think about this often, you know, but I couldn't tell you.
Hey, you had to buy, you know, it was definitely an alien.
It wasn't anything a traditional that you see or you hear about.
And I was, I was 11.
So I wasn't really predisposed to even know about that stuff then.
And I wasn't really interested in it then.
Yeah, yeah.
Wasn't until I was 14, became a Boy Scout.
And we're kind of, you know, doing the whole stargazing thing
that you start asking questions.
And then that's crazy that you remembered that for so long.
Yeah.
I mean, here I'm 60 and I was 11.
I mean, come on.
So, you know, again, was it real?
I don't know.
But those are the type of events that start to form your reality
to kind of make you think, okay, what's going on here?
What is this really all about?
You know, the day that I saw that thing up, up along the radio tower,
looking at that kind of all, what the hell is that?
I mean, it's got to be something.
I saw it, you know, it was the guy that was abducted in the 70s.
Travis Walton, Travis Walton, Travis Walton, the guy who was abducted
and then reappeared.
I mean, that is also extremely detailed, you know, impossibly.
It's impossible to cut that, to discredit that story.
Well, especially all the people that saw it.
Well, do the guys were there?
Rogan, that you showed?
Yeah, that's what I was showing you.
The interesting thing about him is he also has similar stories
to like your story about in your bedroom.
Like he has a story about after he had kids that he told that how he woke up
out of a dead sleep one night, running full speed to his kid's bedroom.
Like he, I don't know how that happens.
It's never happened to me.
I've never woken up in the middle of the night running.
But he says he never slept walk before and he was running to his kid's room
and he woke up and he just he finds himself in his son's room and his son is like
they have the bunk beds and his kid was like halfway off the bunk bed with his
neck stuck between the railing.
So his kid was like a minute from being suffocated to death.
Wow.
And he said he like saved his kid's life or if it wouldn't have got there five
minutes earlier, he would have been dead.
And see what makes that guy so credible?
And he had these stories like this.
Like people like him.
Oh, his story is super credible about the abduction.
But that story, obviously, you can't prove.
Well, listen, it's just interesting that he has those.
It wasn't even his story that I heard that made me go like, oh, wow.
It was the guys who left him there.
When they saw that thing, grab him and he's back arched.
They said, we're the fuck out of here, man.
And they left.
So for me, because those guys were all ashamed of themselves when they first left him,
they didn't they didn't want to tell anybody they left them.
They were all ashamed that they had left him out there in the middle of this woods.
So initially they thought, hey, maybe these guys murdered him.
And I think he came it was either three days or six days
later is when he popped back up and everything.
And then all of a sudden like, hey, there he is.
So to me, again, very credible.
When you talk about Betty and Barney.
Yeah.
Again, dude, very credible.
I remember hearing them about them in the 70s.
They when they first came out with that whole thing.
And it was out.
I think they came out in the 60s, really.
But I remember hearing about in the 70s.
And of course, being a black and white couple like that,
a mixed race couple, the last thing you want to do, and especially in the 70s,
is come up with some crazy story to make you look like some crazy black guy.
Right, right, right.
So he stuck to the story.
And then, you know, as time went on, they were actually bringing more.
Like he said, one of the odd things with him was that he didn't understand
originally because he chose trying to put everything together.
Was the top of his shoes, the toes were all dragged through the shoes.
All they were gone.
There was no leather there on the thread that's very tip of the shoes.
And when they put him under to talk about the event.
Hypnosis under hypnosis.
He said that he floated up.
And as he was going forward, he was dragging his toes along the ground to the ship.
And he didn't remember that until he said it.
And he said, oh, my God, because he had a picture of the shoes.
And he showed, here's the picture of the shoes.
She, they tried to take her dress off of her, but they didn't know what a zipper was.
So they started tearing the dress and pulling on it.
Didn't know whether it was a second skin on her or what it was.
And so when she got back, her dress had all these weird tear marks in it.
And their dress is still around.
And I think the shoes are still around also.
I remember the thing that stuck out to me the most about the Betty and Barney story
was that she remembered asking one of the things that abducted her.
Where they're, she's like, where, who are you and where are you from?
Or where are we?
And she, and the being responded to her like telepathically and said,
if you don't know where you are right now, it would be a way,
it would be worthless for me to tell you where I'm from.
Examine conversation.
Right.
You know, they stuck a needle in their stomach.
Yeah.
And she said, she got all freaked out when that happened because she's like,
you know, what's this all about?
And the guy said to her in his mind, hey, the war is not going to hurt.
She goes, it still hurt.
But he was talking to her mentally and said, hey, you know,
this isn't going to hurt.
You'll be okay when it's all said and done.
They took semen from Barney, you know, and he didn't want to tell anybody that.
Like, you know, that's weird.
How did they, how did they take the semen?
How did they extract the semen?
That was a hell of a visual.
They got a long finger to tickle the prostate.
Do you like this?
How about that?
Probably just, listen, I probably gave him a good shock.
Yeah.
They couldn't just like wave a hand over it.
Probably.
Like I said, I'd hope to never find out personally.
Like don't touch my junk.
Would you, what would you do if you saw, if you saw what Travis Walton saw?
If you, if you saw a saucer hovering 50 feet above the ground,
what would you run to it and hope that it's, that it's,
vacuums you up or would you, what would you do?
I definitely wouldn't run to it.
I think I would be, I would eventually say to myself, aha, I was right.
I think that's the first thing I would say, but I definitely,
I'm too, too aware of like radiation and how these things are flying or, you know,
when, when, when the one that they had in Britain, when the, when the military.
But Travis, they cured him.
They, that's why they pulled him up because he ran in and he hit there.
He got, he got hit all that radiation, right, which would have killed him.
Sure.
And his theory is they brought him up just so they could fix him and heal him.
And then they dropped him back off.
I mean, listen, if they grabbed me, that's a whole other story.
But if I have any say so on the matter is I'm going to be standing as far away
from you as I can see.
You're not going to try to get beamed up.
No.
Okay.
No.
Okay.
No.
Beam me up.
You just want like a picture and proof.
Not like,
I just want the wave at me through the window.
Hey, okay.
We're good.
So maybe if I could bring my gun with me, would be okay.
Yeah.
Do you think that would help you?
Not really.
What if you get up there and then there's like one of those stickers
that says like, no guns allowed.
Exactly.
Damn it.
Damn it.
I can see that.
No human guns.
I'm trying to see.
There's some space weed up there.
Yeah.
What's that about?
Like some space drugs?
It's funny, man.
You know, I read a story.
I wrote a book called Janissaries.
I was in the Navy and it was kind of bizarre, man.
It's about a military group.
They go to Cuba to do this.
They're going to kill like the leader of Cuba.
It's very classified and they get brought in and they get landed.
What they don't realize was they were just set up and the U.S.
was going to leave them there and let them get killed.
And it was going to be this big, you know,
crude, a crawl that was trying to take place.
And this is what happened.
And so while these, these Americans are, they're fighting.
I said, dude, I don't think anybody's coming for us.
I can't get anybody on the radio.
The ship lands and they're all like, what the hell is that?
He's, I don't know, man.
But the door opens up and a voice says, come on, let's go.
The guy's like, dude, I'm not going.
Are you going to stay here?
So there's this, there's this command argument going on.
These guys are going to get wiped out by the Cubans.
So they finally decide to get on this thing and they all get on it.
They're all jumping into it and it takes off.
And they're all kind of talking to each other, looking at it.
Where the hell are we at?
What's up world?
You just watched a clip from one of our exclusive Patreon episodes.
That's right.
You can get weekly pure uncut content straight from the jungles of Columbia.
If you want to watch the full episode, make sure you go to patreon.com slash concrete videos.
Peace.
