I just wanted to let you guys know that consistency, trauma, symbolism, that is what drives the
world.
Next message.
I think the world is in the craziest state, it's been in a long time, and there seems
to be a general disconnect between people that are about like 20 now and people that
are 60 and 50's and ever before, like the baby boomer generation, it's pretty oblivious
to what's going on with most young people, I feel like it's a huge divide, and I feel
like it's tougher for young people now than ever.
One of those things is that college isn't a solution anymore and there's insurmountable
debt.
Also, most people don't have faith in their country the same way they used to, these are
all things I feel are just like pressing issues of what's going on there, like are being talked
about somewhat here and there, but I don't think people understand like quite how large
of a percentage of young people feel like this.
I don't know man, I just think people just need to connect more.
Also, I don't think Trump is as bad as people make him out to be, he's almost street with
the way he moves, like I kind of like it.
I also feel we haven't had someone that speaks as plainly as him in a long time in the White
House, so that's kind of cool to me too.
I don't necessarily dislike him, but I do think, I need to say off Twitter.
Hi, I am Titan from Alabama and I would like to say that I am a big fan of Donald Trump.
It has nothing to do with how my parents brought me up or what they told me to believe.
I truly believe that he is a genuine man.
If you look at how Hollywood treated him before he was president, they treated him with respect
and dignity and if you look at how they treat him afterwards while he's president, they
treated him like dirt.
He hasn't changed one bit, he's the same man from the minute he made those interviews
until now and for them to do a complete 180 makes zero sense.
He hasn't changed, he's the same man, they want to say he's a racist, he's hired more
African Americans amongst other minorities, he hires minorities, racist thing out of picture.
He's not a misogynist, he's hired women, women working his white health.
Every single claim they make can be debunked, it makes zero sense.
Everything is about power and money.
The Democrats, they don't like Donald Trump because he did exactly what they said they
were going to do and I never did.
Right now, they think Donald Trump is going to start World War III all about their power.
They don't want to see him win with Iran because they never could and they never would want
to because it was never about world peace, it was always about money and power to them.
Heck, I mean we could go to World War III with Iran and as long as Democrats had power,
they would not care.
Senators and Congress and House of Representatives would not go to war.
They all want power, all but everyone.
Donald Trump has come to this country to make change and I will gladly accept that.
So to everyone who wants to attack Donald Trump, it's a bunch of baloney.
You have no evidence and you shouldn't have anything against Donald Trump because if you
do, you've been lied to.
Next message.
Hey there, I just wanted to take a quick minute to inform the people of a little fact that
I thought they might want to know when the fact goes as follows.
Not all.
Pee-pee times are poo-poo times.
But all poo-poo times are pee-pee times.
Thank you.
Next message.
I think our country, the United States, the land of the Milky Way, I think it's going
to trash.
And I don't think it's going to stop and there's no reptilians, but you know, I'm not old, I'm
20 years old, but at this date in life, I've been to things, you know, I'm selling and
I've seen many walks in life and I can see what the justice system can do to somebody
and I think we need to reform that and I think that's the biggest thing that our country
needs to do because I don't understand why we, the land of the free, but the golden roads
and we keep our people inside cages, like animals, man, like there's many other ways
of discipline.
There's many other ways to do things.
This society and our mindset that we are in today that, and especially with everything
going around with these rappers and everything, I think it's trash, man.
They shouldn't be portraying what they're portraying and our president shouldn't be doing what
he's doing.
I'm not a politician, I'm a young dude, but it's tough to live in the society and to
know that any second that I can just walk outside and for lowering a misdemeanor, my
misdemeanor would turn into a felony or it just gets upgraded for no reason.
I can't get a job, I can't get an apartment, why is it, why are they punishing us forever?
Why is it, why are they punishing us, it's not real, it's, I'm living with this forever.
It's not right, man, I don't know what to say.
I think this country is a piece of trash and I appreciate what you guys are doing, you
know, keep it up.
I don't even know if you guys are going to put this on your thing, but you know, I can't
do that, I'm not going to say anything because my voice isn't going to be heard and no reason
is doubted in the, anywhere, you know, it's just tough to know that I'm a millennial and
that my choice is unlimited.
Next message.
I'm actually in a pretty damn good mood and there's a lot of opportunity going on.
So I'm focusing on that.
Business is going to be booming for a lot of people who see the opportunity to take
life by the balls and just twist and squeeze.
So little descriptive, but my main thing is without angry everybody is I'm focusing
on the opportunity to grow, expand and evolve instead of getting pissed off.
Next message.
You know, I just saw something on YouTube about what your thoughts are on Trump and
stuff, man.
He fucked us.
Like he really fucked us.
I'm 20 years old, right?
And like he really just fucked everything like, yeah, okay, I vape and everything, right?
And he just passed the bill for 21.
You know, it's not that crazy, you know, 21 or whatever, but like for all the people
that have been doing it, just they were like, what, 18, 17 and stuff like that.
Like in the States, like Texas and stuff.
Like I know they have the grandfather bill, but like for him to just randomly, like one
day, yeah, you could be buying a pack of cigarettes.
The next day, you like literally if you were buying a pack of cigarettes and 12 o'clock
hits at night, they would not let you buy them.
Like that's just ridiculous.
Like he had, we had no like fucking plans for this shit.
Like nothing.
Like no one like was like, oh yeah, by the way, this bill is going to be passed in like
30 days.
No, it was just one fucking day.
Like, are you serious?
Like it's just insane.
Like how he can just randomly do that.
Like I just feel like it's not fair for everybody.
Like, you know, and then like the fact is that he just wants to go and bomb places.
Like, man, he's going to start World War three and the draft is going to come back.
And my, my one of my family members is really, really like well known journalist.
And I'm not going to say who it is so that they don't like, you know, whatever, just
don't get out to talk to them or whatever.
But, you know, like it's, it's insane.
Like the fact is that he, he's going to start the draft up like World War three is going
to happen because of all his stupid antics that he's been doing.
And like, yeah, one house devoted him impeachment, but the other house has to another house is
not going to do it.
It's just not going to happen.
And, you know, like if they want to save United States, they should do it, but they're
not going to.
And, you know, it's just really fucked up.
Like I really, really, really hate this guy and he just has like a psychotic kid's brain.
And, you know, like it doesn't, it's not here to benefit us.
It's here to benefit him.
It's like a game for him.
Like being the president is like playing a video game for him.
Like he's like, oh, I wonder how many things I can fuck up this time.
Like it's really not, he's not doing his job.
Like correctly, he's not taking it serious.
And he's been doing it since he was born.
Like, sure.
Yeah.
He had what one or two weeks of like being serious about it.
And now he's just like, and we have to do this and we don't want these immigrants,
Mexicans, whatever.
Like it's just stupid.
Like he has no intelligence.
Like his family gave him all his money, all his wealth and everything.
And like it's just, it's a stupid shit in the world.
Like he's going to fuck us just because it's fun to him.
Like that's really, he's basically just fucking us for fun.
Next message.
Penis.
Next message.
For a long time, I was a Trump supporter because of our strong economy and his
stance in the military, increasing military strength, but avoiding wars.
Wasn't really big on his immigration policy.
Wasn't really big on his health care stances.
Definitely isn't a good guy.
But now that he's moving towards this war with Iran, I have a firm stance against him.
I'm sure many people will agree with me.
I think that we need to make America great again and make America strong again.
And that doesn't include going to war with other countries.
Next message.
So I really feel that pretty much white people run the country.
No matter how much bullshit they don't, it's.
Always white people running the country, running everything.
And it's going to keep being like that for the next.
The next 100, 200, 300 years.
And that's just the way things are going to be forever.
So.
I mean, minorities can try their best and yeah, they will get ahead in some parts,
but for the most part, it's always going to be white people in charge and.
That's the way it will be forever.
It's nothing wrong with that.
White people run everything they.
They'll always be the.
Deleting.
People in this world.
No matter what.
It's going to be the whites in charge.
Next message.
You know, I'm not personally scared about Iran, but the thought that some of my friends
who are currently in the military are going to be deployed and could die at the right age of 18.
It's ass.
Next message.
What up motherfuckers out there in concrete, living their best life and some of you live in your worst life.
I hope you all aspire to be great one day and hope you all have amazing dreams and cute aspirations.
Now my message is simple.
People need to get off their ass and start doing something with their fucking lives.
Whatever the fuck it is, if you're not saving your money, investing in your future self or doing something for yourself,
then what the fuck is the point of even living?
You're just living the doc.
It makes no sense.
I just want to say shout out to team.
I love you guys.
You guys are amazing.
I hope I make it to the series.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
Next message.
Yeah.
Well, I'm thinking here, right?
I'm thinking.
And, you know, these corporate big waves out here really think that they run a world.
And if you look at it, they pretty much do.
I mean, what are we doing?
What are we doing?
All we're doing is just sitting around.
Letting out dick ghetto and paying taxes while fucking governments out there,
going ahead and starting these unjust wars without consulting the American people.
And to me, we still got people out here stressing over Popeyes chicken sandwiches and Instagram followers.
They won't even take a second to look at Australia.
Like, brother, brother, these are the issues at hand, not what goes on through your phone.
These, these people nowadays, they live in a, in a, in a microwave setting.
No, they just move on to the next thing goes and it just, it just goes.
It comes and goes, comes and goes.
That's all it does.
These people out here, they really don't have a self-awareness.
You could tell they haven't taken no acid, no shrooms, no nothing.
They just out there fucking thinking that they know how to live the world, but they don't.
They don't.
They're not self-aware.
They can't read the energy in the room.
No, no, no, no.
They don't.
They don't have, they don't know fuck.
But you know, you know, we're going to be the bad people no matter what.
Politically, if you speak your opinion, you're a bad person because no matter what you say, there will always be an opposition.
People don't, people don't want to see people talk.
They just want to talk.
Everybody is selfish.
Everybody wants their opinion to be the one.
That's the fucking headline of some shit.
Nah, bro, your Facebook ain't fucking a blog, bro.
Your Facebook is not the Daily Mail.
It's not CNN.
It's not Fox News, bro.
If anything in Facebook is a pissed down version of BuzzFeed, bro.
You keep shit posting shit and then you try to act serious.
What kind of fucking message are you trying to send, bro?
You look stupid.
You look stupid.
Get off of Facebook.
Get off of whatever, okay?
And fucking do something.
Don't just play with your dick at home.
Repost some shit.
Next message.
You guys want to hear a joke about paper?
It's terrible.
Got him.
Next message.
You should do a cover over somebody who's in the poker scene.
Something in counting cards.
That'd be interesting to hear and learn about.
Next message.
The only reason I even wake up in this mad world anymore is because of my kid.
Maybe more people remember that we have kids or could have kids.
Or that there's a lot of kids out there that just need some positive love.
No.
That's the way it should be.
Next message.
So I just want to make this short and sweet.
So basically there's a lot of like, are you in going on like in the government and like with like the American society, everyone's on different sides with a spectrum.
Whether it be like Republican, Democrat or whatever it may be.
My viewpoint that kind of goes against this is that kind of goes against the norm is the fact that we need to be happy about the diverse beliefs within our government.
Because this isn't a good thing that representatives from our country can do one thing and then publicly say that it's bad.
And doesn't that make us look better to our adversaries?
Like as far as like Nancy Pelosi, she says, attacking Salamani is bad.
She says she stands with Iran.
And while Trump says no, let's let's let's let's take him out.
It's kind of a positive that those two and two opposing ideas to come and neutralize each other.
And even though like we're assaulting their country, regardless of them doing wrong or them doing good.
It's good that we have the two opposing views because it cancels and neutralizes everything out.
It's kind of like the dialectic process.
So that's just my viewpoint.
I know that was a little bit haphazard and not really well rehearsed.
But the ultimate point is that just because our country is divided doesn't mean that we're weak.
In division, there is strength.
That's kind of a crazy viewpoint when you first look at it.
But when you really take the time to examine it, having multiple opposing viewpoints, it's beneficial.
Because, well, I think I already stated one, but all right.
All right, see you later.
Next message.
Joe, concrete.
It's Chris.
Great show.
I just piled the wrong number.
I love someone a long ass message.
Anyway, oh, you know, these things happen.
Hey, anyway, I wanted to call and get my two cents.
So my two cents is this.
I'm a business owner in Colorado.
I do a lot of traveling, lots of traveling.
I don't know.
We probably travel 70,000 miles a year, a lot, maybe 70.
But anyway, one of the things that I've noticed the most is just the absolute lack of infrastructure where you go,
the conditions in America, small towns, just absolutely dwindling away.
Business is closing.
You know, I know there's a lot of talk about how the economy is great just in that.
But, you know, I think it's a lot of chummed up bullshit, to be honest with you.
You know, everywhere we go, across the board, whether we're in Denver, which is a growing city,
or whether we go through Texas or we go through New Mexico, Utah, anywhere.
It's the same story.
There's no real manufacturing going on in America anymore because it's too expensive.
We can't do a manufacturing overseas because now it's becoming too expensive.
You know, so I guess what I'm trying to say is originally my thoughts were Trump or positive in many respects.
And now I'm starting to kind of change my mind.
I still see the same old shit going on, which is just depleted, gross neglect of everything from infrastructure to roads to things for the community,
downtowns or dwindling away.
I think that's the right reality.
I really wish that the concrete, you guys, if you have any ideas for doing a documentary, do a documentary on,
well, let's go into some real towns across America.
Let's take a look at which ones are, you know, is it me?
Are they really all doing well or is it really all struggling?
I think there's a real, and I think people around are seeing people, you know, do things.
But I think a lot of it is, you know, face off of debt.
But the reality is when it comes to real growth, real money growth, I don't know if it's necessarily there.
But anyway, not to get on too much of a stand.
My point is, I don't know if America is looking so great again yet.
And I'm trying to be really optimistic and altered because I'm a VISTA donor, and that's what we have to do.
But we've seen our expenses just go through the roof in the last two years.
It's ridiculous.
And now I question more and more, what are the chances of survival in another two, three, four, five years?
You know, everything is becoming more and more expensive because, you know, frankly, I think it's inflation.
I think it's dollars week.
I don't think things are as good as they say.
I see a lot of businesses closing up.
Breweries out here in Colorado are closing up.
In fact, one closed today.
That makes me question what the validity behind all these statements really is.
Next message.
So I'm just sitting here, 1249.
So kind of a weird thought to have at 1249.
But I'm really just, I'm wondering, what is the, over and there are Michael Penises?
How do we feel about them?
Is it a large click or is it a Michael Penises?
I mean, biologically speaking, we do know that it can be a male genitalia.
But is there really a difference when you really think about it?
I'm not sure.
It's really a bug in me.
You know, I figured maybe I could get some solace in finding someone else might have the same questions burning at 1250 now.
Some minutes gone by.
I do really appreciate the time and God bless.
Next message.
Yo, I think the world is actually super fucked up.
People need to open their eyes more.
They need to research more shit for themselves, right?
And take the word of others.
That's where a lot of people go wrong.
And then they share that misinformation and then everything gets fucked up.
That's why you research your own shit.
Doubt people and do more things on your own.
That's what more people need to do.
And this government shit want to be working how it is.
You need to not trust the banks.
Everyone needs to fucking just use cash.
Don't trust the banks.
Don't feed them your money.
That's what you need to do.
That's the only thing you can do.
But good luck.
Next message.
Trump 2020.
Yeah, that will be all.
Thanks for calling.
Your thoughts matter.
Let's talk 727-222-0423.
