They say, well, what was he like?
This is quiet, shy, introvert, very well mannered.
I believe it.
You know, but everybody else says, I don't believe it.
That's not what I'm seeing in the music.
That's not what I'm hearing.
All I'm saying to you is that his art, as it came out of him, is what you're seeing,
the poetry part of it.
I'm just going to talk about poetry, which I know nothing about.
I walk into a room, he's there, he says to me, oh, you got to read this great poetry
book, some known poetry book.
I'm thinking, hey, dude, this is Mike over here, what are you talking about poetry?
I'm into, you know, being masculine, you know, I mean, I'm being silly, but I'm going
on.
What the hell are you even talking about?
Poetry?
Who the hell are you thinking?
Poetry.
But he was way into that.
And what Bob Dylan was writing was heavy, heavy, heavy poetry.
What Jimmy's writing when he's talking about when Christ married or, you know, all those
kind of songs where, you know, he's talking about, you can see happiness staggering on
down the street, footprints dressed in red.
He's telling a story from his point of view in his mind.
He's talking about this.
And he knows that this is like very shocking to the society, meaning I'm on the phone with
him once, I'm calling him from New York.
I mean, I'm in New York with him.
I'm calling Tony and I'm saying, what about this?
What about that?
What about our business that we had to do at that moment?
And I say, Tony sends her regards or her love or whatever.
And Jimmy says, tell her I'll meet her in the next world and don't be late.
Meaning this is Jimmy.
This is in his song, but he's living in another place that you and I can't imagine.
You get a clue of it by his music.
And he said, this is some cool place, but back to sort of the beginning.
Yeah.
Talking about his personality, personally, some of the most talented people that I
know I've ever met have been very socially awkward and introverted like that.
I wouldn't say he's socially awkward.
I would just say introverted, quiet, shy, very well mannered.
And he knows how to get through a situation, whatever it is, meaning,
you know, in his hotel room in downtown Tampa in the Sheridan, there's a paper
bag on the, you know, little table there.
I didn't think anything of it.
You know, we're doing the clothes and we're taking the order and this and that.
And, and this is at the first time we're meeting them.
And I say, oh, let's figure out your size.
Try these pants on.
I mean, I could just look at him in one second.
I could tell you what size he is.
I give him the pants.
He walks over towards the bathroom.
There's one of those thin tables by the bathroom and he takes off the scarves that
are tied around his waist, which this is like a two minute job.
I mean, he's got knots of scarves going around his waist and around his waist.
Just what he's doing at the time.
It's just what he's wearing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Over his pants, he's wearing scarves and he's tying the scarves around his
knees and you know, all that stuff that you see.
Anyway, he takes it off, lays it on this table, takes the pants, goes into the
bathroom, two minutes later, he comes back out with his original pants on and
he's got the pants that I gave him to try on.
He says, make them all like this.
Meaning he's saying, don't measure me.
Don't touch me, whatever.
Make them all like this.
Fine.
Meaning he's shy.
And those pants fit him, but these are tight pants and they're tight partially
because they're seen down the front and back and I can get away with it.
Meaning we're getting known for this look of these pants with the buttons down
the side and all that.
Um, but all I'm saying to you is that he could get through a situation later on
that day after he played now myself, you know, a few other guys and girls or
whatever back at his room after the gig, you know, the, the reefers being rolled
we're smoking it, you know, a half an hour goes by and everyone's looking
around, they're hungry, you know, someone takes out a piece of paper and tries
to take an order.
You want a burger from the whatever downstairs or fries.
The first person tries to do it.
They can't write.
They can't even spell their own name.
Meaning they're too high.
Second person too high.
Third person too high.
Finally, Jimmy says, give me the pet.
He takes it.
He asks, do you want a burger?
You want a medium?
You want fries?
You want this?
You want a Coke?
You want, he had to have been a waiter at some point in his life or he knew
about this stuff.
He wasn't ashamed of it or anything like that.
This is what it took to do the job.
He says, give me the paper and he wrote, writes, gets the whole thing written out.
They went and got the food.
We ate the food.
That was the end of that.
But all I'm saying to you is that it's a very natural person and that's what's
coming across when he's telling me, don't be hesitant to take and make
something, anything to your fancy as long as it's specially made his art.
He's telling me, Mike, go for it.
Just go and enjoy it.
Just go and make it.
Don't worry about the money.
Don't worry about the time.
Don't worry about Jimi Hendrix.
Don't worry about anything.
Just go make some art and then send it to me and make a lot.
Um, so all I'm saying to you is that this is a lesson in life of, this is just
another person with all the things that you have.
He may have a different set of talents and a different way of operating a little bit,
but, and obviously a very different destiny so far in your life anyway.
Um, but all I'm saying to you is that he knew how to communicate on a record.
He knew how to communicate with some fool that's making his clothes in Tampa,
you know, or St. Petersburg at the time.
Um, so there's a beauty to just being natural.
That's really what he was.
You know, where a lot of us feel as though, you know, I can't be natural.
I'm not, I gotta play this part.
That's what the culture is telling me is proper or cool or, you know, whatever,
you know, and what he's saying, just go for it, Mike, you know, do what you do.
Right.
