Can you kind of give me the gist or give me the back story of what the relationship was
between you and John Gotti Jr.?
Well, you know, I was a guy that was put in a position to, you know, take care of him,
protect him.
And we had fallen outs over the years.
His father was in a position, whether you like him as a boss or not, became a boss.
And although I disagreed on his leadership in a lot of ways, he was a gangster.
The son, on the other hand, was what I call spoiled brat.
Right.
Guys make fun of him, call him Dypedon now and different things because of what he does
with the media as far as, you know, social media I'm talking about.
He doesn't get on.
They just made a movie about him, right?
They did a movie.
They made a movie about his father, tanked.
About his father.
Okay.
The first of all, it was a disaster of a film.
They say it was the worst film ever in the history of mobs.
Really?
But again, because the son tried to hold and control what was being written and how was
being written.
And, you know, he destroyed whatever they were trying to do with the movie by trying
to control it.
Right.
So this is the problem with him.
He doesn't do anything where he comes out in a positive manner and tries to help some
kids, doesn't come out and be truthful.
You know, we have to.
That's what I did.
I had to catch him as an informant and there's no, listen, you're an informant.
There's no way to back out of that.
You're a queen of the day.
There's no way to say I only read it a little bit or, you know, these ridiculous comments.
And I hate to always go into it about him because he's nothing to me.
In my country in Albanian, there's a terminology for a barking dog.
You know, you ever see these little dogs, like a little chihuahua when they don't stop
yapping and barking and, you know, we say, just keep walking and keep walking past them.
That dog's going to be barking forever.
Right.
So, you know, he's a barker.
He's a guy that, you know, never did no work if, you know, he wasn't violent in the street.
The guys like me did that stuff and he's on a poor me syndrome.
Nobody wants to hear that.
You know, stand on your own two feet, say, listen, I lived a life I shouldn't have.
We dealt drugs.
Yeah, maybe I didn't, by my own hand, go out and hurt all these guys, but guys like me
did and, you know, do something positive with kids, stop whining and crying, stop blaming
your father for putting you in this life.
And then you try to, you know, make money off your father's legacy or whatever.
You whether you agree with the lifestyle of his father or how he led, which, you know,
I'm not a big advocate as him as a leader, but the father was who he was.
Of him or his dad?
The father's leadership.
I mean, the son, I don't even really, I don't like talking about him anymore.
No.
There's really not much to say or there's something left to say.
Do you think that you guys will ever mend the relationship?
I mean, you guys were pretty good friends at one point, right?
I don't know if we were friends.
I know the media said we were friends.
I mean, I said, you know, at times, yeah, we were friends, but, you know, I work with
them.
It was a working relationship.
And, you know, I, when, it depends on how I feel that day, I say, a baby sent him.
You know, he's just a spoiled guy, you know, until he faces the truth about himself, that
he was spoiled, that he was kind of a bratty kid, uh, food sped, uh, you know, fed and
uh, spoon fed.
And, uh, you know, I'm not going to have too many good things to say about him until
he steps up, you know, he becomes a man and does the right thing with kids and, you know,
stops bullshitting everybody and, you know, just say, Hey, listen, if there's a way to
change that you were queen of the day, I just want to know about it.
But there really is no way to change that.
You were queen of the day.
Well, I was in penitentiaries and other guys and you started talking, giving us up.
We don't know exactly how many times you met and we don't know if it's for years, but
you're an informant and there's no way you're changing that.
You took yourself in and met with the government and you're trying to spin it somehow.
And there's no street guy, not one that will say anything different, but that he was an
informant and a cooperator ride or any dumb word that he uses.
Yeah.
I mean, it seems like one of the, the number one rule when it comes to any kind of, any
kind of street business or, or anything, the number one rule is you never snitch, you never
flip, right?
Because that's, that's your dignity.
That's, that's everything, right?
That's what you're judged on.
That's the number one thing you're judged on.
So no one, if you want to, if you want to make it in an organized crime or if you want
to be in the mob, if you flip, you're dead, you're a dead man, right?
Yeah.
I mean, listen, by simple ways, the way you're saying it, the belief on the street is
that, but that's just my perspective.
Yeah.
I mean, listen, that's the problem is it's most kids perspective and they don't
understand the street.
So when they're on the street and your partner's with a guy and he's stealing half
the money or he's not giving you the fair share.
So there's where it starts, right?
He starts taking a little extra and he doesn't tell you and your partner's
wrong.
So there's one problem that goes on the street, greed.
Second problem is guys start stealing each other's girlfriends and women when
they're not around.
So that's the second part.
There's the second part, no loyalty.
Third part is when something dangerous goes on and it's going to be you going to
get shot or he's going to get shot, you're going to run and let him get shot.
Fourth part is guys are going to, as soon as they run into a little problem or
their, their girlfriend or boyfriend or mother or father may be involved with
them, they're going to sell you out to protect them.
So there is no real code of honor.
Like everybody thinks it's garbage and you know, the, the, the telltale for
everything, read them.
I don't care what religion you are, read the Quran, read the Bible, read whatever.
If you're Buddhist, money is evil, right?
And this is what the problem is.
Money is controlling the streets.
And as long as money controls the streets, the loyalty isn't to your friend or to
your partner or to an organization, it's to the dollar bill.
And instead of following a path where you can make a dollar bill the right way,
everybody's trying to take a shortcut.
And at the same time, they're selling each other out left and right.
And it's not something I'm talking about.
And somebody says, Oh, he's full of shit.
Just go look at history.
Go follow religion and watch all the murders that go on through history.
Follow the wars, follow the Roman Empire and see what everything's about.
Watch a movie like the Braveheart and see what it's about being taxed and taking
money from the poor.
And then it's also about what somebody that has no money to inner city kids.
And when they get jammed up or locked up, watch how many years they get compared
to some rich kid that's got the money like Gotti did to deceive and lie in
and form and weasel his way out and pay his way.
So, you know, it's not structured fairly and the world's not fair.
So if you want to level the ground in a fair way, go to work the right way.
And you don't have to worry about all those things I just spoke about.
Right, right.
And take the right path because easy to take the wrong path.
I mean, listen, I took the wrong path my whole life.
I've been, you know, stabbed up, I've been shot, I've been batted.
I spent 18 years in prisons.
I spent probably a good last 10 years of my life in prisons were without a yard.
I didn't see a yard.
I was locked up 23 hours a day at 24.
I shower three, four days a week at best.
And I spent probably seven years in solitary confinement.
So when people say, you know, fuck you, they don't want to hear what you got to say.
Listen, I can't make everybody listen, but I hope the people that are
suffering a little bit or people have jammed up with cases or people thinking
about going that way, take a second, a second stance and say, you know,
I don't want to end up in these prisons.
I don't want to be shot in the head because, you know, I can manoeuvre
guys all over.
That's what I did for a living.
I get friendly with you.
And after I get friendly with you, you think you're involved with us.
And I shoot you in the head.
So it's done just as easy as that.
And if I know you had three hundred thousand dollars in your house, well,
there's your life was worth to me.
Three hundred thousand and your life's finished.
So if you think there's a code between guys and this guy's a lot more vicious
than I am. So that's the reality of the street.
