One of my best stories was trying to swim from Russia to the USA solo.
Oh, to, you mean from like, to Alaska?
Let me, let me, can I tell you the story?
Oh, for sure, yeah.
Oh, we got plenty of time.
All right, let me.
So, obviously you've got Russia and Alaska, about 180 kilometers across between the two of them of Bearing Sea.
I was invited to be part of a relay attempt, a Russian relay attempt that was looking to swim from Russia world first across to America.
And it was a big international thing, mostly Russians, but then they had an international component of which I was one.
And it was, it was meant to take us three or four days in a relay, it took us about 13 days eventually.
I turned 40 years old twice, by the way, because smack in the middle of that sea is the international date line.
So it's, it's where kind of everything meets.
So, you know, on one side is 24 hours away or 23 hours away from the other side.
Wow.
So, and I happened to have my 40, we had just crossed that line.
We were in American waters and I turned 40 and the weather turned so bad and we had to anchor.
And because we couldn't move anymore, we ran out of permissions to be in American water being a Russian vessel.
So they then had to go back into Russia, which put me back into yesterday.
So I turned 39 again, back a date.
That was hilarious.
And then we crossed over the date line again.
I turned 40 again, all the time caught up.
So that's quite a, I mean, that's just a sideline.
That was a fascinating story.
However, while I was on that relay trip, which was successful in the end and a complete adventure.
And I spotted two little islands called the Diomedi Islands.
Okay.
Smack in the middle of this Bering Sea.
So they're two little clumps of rock, really.
One is called Ratmanova, which is big Diomedi and that's in Russian waters.
And 3.8 kilometers across, which is about two miles.
There's another little island called Little Diomedi and that's American water.
So I figured if I can swim between those two islands, I will be the first male to have ever swam from Russia to America solo.
Now it's been done by a lady called Lynn Cox, who I've met and worked great swimmer.
She's an American woman and lives in San Diego, I think.
Well, that's where I met her.
And she did it in 1980s.
No one's ever done it or tried it since.
I really, really wanted to try and do that.
So living in Cape Town is quite hard, but eventually I flew with a group of guys who had different goals.
They wanted to do it in wetsuits and they didn't want to get cold.
They just wanted to do quite cool swimming from Russia to the USA and across the dateline.
Oh, and just so that one island is 23 hours time difference to the other, but they're only two miles apart.
So it's quite a weird swimming from one side to the other and it's very bizarre in your head trying to figure it out.
It's either going to take you the longest swim of your life or it's going to be the quickest.
So anyway, where was I?
Oh, so I had to fly from Cape Town to Johannesburg, Johannesburg to London, London to New York, New York to Anchorage,
Anchorage to Nome, Nome to Prince of Wales.
And then I had to get on a little boat and catch a ride out to the island to start the swim.
So you just have no idea.
And what had happened in all the preparation that we had done to get there,
it happened to coincide with the first time that Russia decided to invade Ukraine.
Or say the first time, maybe there's a time before, but the last time.
So not this current time that we're happening now.
When was it? What year?
It must have been 2014.
Yeah, 2014.
Was that when they took over Crimea?
I think so.
I don't know too much about the politics.
All I know is that it was hypersensitive and the Russian island is a military base,
kind of a first line of defence from the American side.
So we couldn't get permission to enter Russian waters, no matter how hard we tried.
Because you're going through unorthodox ways.
You're going by boat.
You're going to swim into Russia.
You just don't understand that.
It's just too crazy.
So they said that.
There's also a whole colony of walrus that live there that are quite dangerous and adds to the hecticness.
Walrus?
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
And yeah, so eventually the American expedition company that took us, because we couldn't get permissions,
refused to go across that dateline and into Russian waters.
So it only escorted us the first mile from America to that line and they wouldn't go any further.
So we lost our support crew, most of it.
There was only one or two boats.
But when you're in a place that remote and you can throw enough cash at anybody to kind of, you know,
someone's going to figure it out for you.
So first, sorry, just backtracking.
We didn't get permission to enter Russian waters.
So generally what normal people would do is then to say, well, you know, it didn't work.
Sorry, we can't get permission.
I decided I want to go anyway because I know that when you get into these really remote places,
they often have laws of their own and money talks.
So you throw a bit of money at the problem and you find a way to get yourself across.
So that we did and we got out there.
But no one gave any support whatsoever.
The locals were just saying, you'll get shot out the water.
Really?
Don't do it.
Yeah.
And it's really messed with my mind.
Really messed with my mind.
So remember, I'm there with a really good bunch of mates that are doing a swim,
but they are on a completely different mission.
So they've got no threat from the cold, but then in proper wetsuits and protection,
I'm going to try and do the swim solo in a speeder.
So I'm going to be pushing myself to the brink of death and then I need someone to take over
and achieve my goal and get me to recover and bring me back to life.
So it is quite a hectic mindset.
It's one when you're doing it with a bunch of mates who are doing the same thing with you,
but when they're not, you feel very alone.
The next thing that went on is that when I went past those islands on the relay attempt,
we measured the water at six degrees Celsius, which is flippant cold.
Anyway, working out six degrees would be about 45, 48 Fahrenheit.
Yeah, 43 Fahrenheit.
And I reckon I could do the two mile distance in that, just over 2 miles, 2.2 miles.
When we got there to do the solo, it was 3.2 degrees Celsius, which is closer to 32, 33 Fahrenheit.
It's really cold, makes a massive difference.
So it's half the time before you dead, basically.
It's not just three degrees colder.
Plus we lost the support crew, so we lost about three boats.
And now we've got five guys swimming, all of the six guys swimming,
five in wetsuits and one in a speedo, having to share a boat.
I have to get myself in a very meditative state.
So I separate myself from the herd.
They all jokes and banter and they're talking about what the plans are.
I just had to get in the zone to focus on the cold.
And we eventually got a guy who was prepared to take us into the Russian water and drop us at the island.
And I made a call, I'm not going to climb out on the island,
because immediately you can see the Russian military reactants.
Yeah, you can see them.
They were watching.
There was nothing else to do out there.
So they're watching like what the hell's going on here.
And they're pretty good.
I imagine they're probably fucking half in the bag.
Yeah.
Vodka.
What else is it?
So yeah.
So anyway, I lost a little bit of nerve and decided I'm still going to do the swim,
but I'm not going to access the Russian island,
which means I can't claim the record because you have to exit land and exit land on each side
to say you've done the swim.
So I decided to take me to opposite the island,
drop me in the water and I'll swim healthy leather back to America,
which is what I did.
But I need a support boat alongside me because it's three degree water,
there were patches of six.
So it was between three and six Celsius.
And because we had lost some of the support crew,
we were all sharing a boat.
And when we reached that date line geographically,
obviously there's no line,
you're kind of swimming one stroke you this side of the line and the next stroke you that,
the guys will stop for a photo shoot.
And I can't stop.
So and it just went so they all said,
no, no, just swim on, swim on.
So I kept swimming by myself,
completely exposed out in the middle,
knowing that I'm dying body wise.
They are war us in the area.
There are currents that are sweeping me out.
And I swam the 3.8 or the two mile distance and the support bank came alongside me
and I'd realized I got much ejectory horribly wrong.
So I wasn't swimming to America.
I had to swim at an angle to compensate for the currents running between the islands.
And yeah, that I'd got a little bit wrong.
I got a bit too hectic as I never boat beside me
and you can't really see where you're going.
Bottom line is I didn't make it.
I got pulled out.
Really?
I did the distance.
I swam from Russia to America,
but I did not start on the on the Russian Island.
So I called claim the record.
Long story for that.
It's quite hard to picture.
But if I had the visuals, it makes a lot more sense.
I'm sure that was an adventure.
Amazing.
I mean, I don't think anyone would fault you for not touching on land in Russia
and fear of getting shot.
I mean, that's well that year.
Listen, I still did it.
I still did it.
And the other thing in my head just the last hurdle was that I didn't personally believe
I get shot, although that's what I was told by the people who should know.
But even if they didn't shoot and they just pulled me out and arrested me
as we know in legally in Russian waters.
They need proper medical support to recover.
And they're not going to know that.
So they're going to take me and maybe try and process.
I'm really trying to tell them in English, dude.
Some guy in a speedo.
Rest of the guy in a speedo.
And he can't talk English or Russian.
What's worse, arresting a guy in a speedo or shooting a guy in a speedo?
