How did and why do you think El Chapo got busted?
El Chapo was never the boss of the Sinaloa Cartel.
He was never the...
No, he was never the boss of the Sinaloa Cartel.
Not at all.
You know, most of the people don't know or don't grasp the idea that the Sinaloa Cartel was not born in Sinaloa.
It was born in L.A.
That's where the Sinaloa Cartel actually grew and was born in Los Angeles.
That's basically the cradle of the El Sinaloa Cartel.
El Mayo Sambada was one of the founders along with a Cuban man that I forget his name right now.
That was like the father-in-law or something like that for El Mayo.
And they both were immigrants living in L.A.
Because the first thing you need to be a successful trafficker is a buyer.
You can have all the products you want.
But if you don't have a buyer, you have nowhere to go.
No money to make.
So these two guys made a whole network of buyers in L.A.
And they started moving the money.
They knew the place. They knew Sinaloa. They had family there.
So they started making the strings.
The first time the Sinaloa Cartel became a cartel, it was established in L.A. from buyers in L.A.
What were they selling? Cocaine weed?
Weed.
Exactly. It was weed at the very beginning.
But also the first established connection to bring huge loads for the Sinaloa Cartel of cocaine were buyers in L.A.
Was that in the 80s?
That was in the 80s.
Okay, so that was like Roger Reeves era.
Yeah, exactly.
So that's the first thing, right?
And I think El Chapo grew up in Baliraguato, a very small town in Sinaloa.
Someone gave him a job, right?
Someone hired him first to wash the cars, to clean the cars and all that shit.
He got more involvement.
But what he had was a huge fucking ego and a huge fucking necessity to be recognized other than a little indio from the mountains, right?
He wanted to be someone else.
And I guess that served its purpose for the cartel.
He's like, oh, so you want to be important, right? You want to be someone.
So why aren't you the face of the cartel, you know?
Go out there. Have the money. Have everything you want. You're the fucking face.
Well, we run the cartel from behind talking about El Mayo and talking about white-collar people, right?
Like lawyers, politicians, business owners and all that stuff.
They were like, as soon as he's willing to put his fucking face out there, like, we're good, man.
How about it?
And he did.
He wanted to make a fucking film.
He wanted to make documentaries.
So what was he doing?
What was his role at the peak of his involvement?
I guess he was like a manager for the whole thing.
It's like, if you had, I don't know, a store on this place, and I'm the real owner.
I'm the one with the money, with the hooks, with everything.
But I'm like, okay, I'm getting the money, the big bugs.
Do you want to take care of this and be the face to the tour clients?
He's like the Ronald McDonald.
Exactly.
Yes, exactly.
The job was like the Ronald McDonald for the snow dog cartel.
And once his purpose stopped serving the real owners, they deliver himself.
They deliver him.
They were like, fuck it.
It's not.
We'll give you choppa.
Exactly, because he was too flashy by then, right?
Every fucking body knew his face, his whereabouts.
Everybody knew his whole family.
I have most of his family on my Instagram account, and they still have a lot of fucking money, man.
What do you mean on your Instagram account?
They have Instagram accounts.
What do you mean they're following you?
They're following when I'm following them, man.
Yeah, yeah.
And most of them are living in the US.
Many don't even speak Spanish, man.
Really?
He has a two or three-year-old granddaughter living in LA.
And her gift for this birthday was, I think he was a raptor Ford.
The Ford Raptor.
But like the fuck in the 2022 Ford Raptor or something like that.
So he was just a manager, and he had that kind of money.
Exactly.
How does he have that money still?
How is he doing it from prison?
I think, I mean, you don't need to be there for every deal, right?
You just need to have the contacts and the sources and keep everybody at play and playing their role.
Go kill that guy.
Go do this.
Go do that.
And he's doing that?
He used to do that.
Right now, he's not able to even talk to anyone.
He only has three calls a month to bed at people, right?
So it's basically his granddaughter, one of his daughters also, and his mom.
And he can only speak 50...
He has only 15 minutes a month to speak to whichever, those three person he can talk to.
And his lawyers, his attorneys.
I had an exclusive interview with his main attorney posted on my Instagram as well last week where she...
She tells a lot of details about how El Chapo is really.
You know, she says he's funny.
He has good sense of humor.
He's very respectful.
And that he knows that the U.S. wants to stop the cartels.
You'll have to go against politicians.
And so that's an interesting thing.
Against what politicians?
Against the U.S. politicians?
And Mexico, both.
U.S. and Mexican politicians.
That's how you stop the cartel.
I'm like, wow, that's a fucking interesting...
Have you ever met El Chapo?
Never met, but I saw him on his last arrest before being extradited.
He was arrested in Mexico City.
And he was presented to the press from the Mexico hangar, from the military base,
where he was being held before being transported to Ciudad Juarez, actually.
He tried to go into the prison in Ciudad Juarez to try and see if I could speak to someone.
But now he was completely on the shoot.
He was not able to...
The guys who delivered food for him were...
They couldn't even look him in the eye.
They had to be looking somewhere else and then give him the food.
It's so crazy how, at least from my perspective,
it seems like the media has portrayed him as the kingpin bot,
the number one hefe of the Sinaloa cartel.
It's also a purpose, man.
When you work in the news, and I'm telling you because I work in the fucking news,
it's super difficult to tell a story right
because you will need to write so many words
and enter in so many details
that your articles will have to be extra fucking long and complicated articles,
explaining how everything works.
So the easiest way is...
Let's just say El Chapo, right?
He's sort of like the manager in the head and everybody says he's the head.
So just put El Chapo because people know his name.
People know who we're talking about.
It serves a purpose, especially getting clicks and views and clickbait type shit.
Talking about El Chapo, people are going to click on it.
And I mean, I've written stories, obviously, trying to set things straight
and say like, okay, he was just a fucking manager.
Because how come if he was responsible for all this shit, he's in jail?
He's not even to speak to anyone right now.
How come his family keeps getting a lot of fucking money?
How come his organization, the Sinaloa cartel, has never shipped so many cocaine
than when he was in jail, right?
They're shipping more since he's been in prison?
Exactly, more.
So it's like, dude, I mean, it's obviously not working, right?
That kingpin strategy, it's not fucking working.
It's just a waste of the taxpayers' money.
How much money are they spending on keeping El Chapo locked?
On paying agents to go into Mexico to try to capture a kingpin,
to put him behind jail, behind bars, to transport him, extradite him and all that shit.
And at the end, it doesn't really make nothing on the real business, right?
On the coke trade, on the drug trade.
