Hello world! Randall Carlson is a master builder, architectural designer, teacher,
geometrician, geomethologist, geological explorer, and renegade scholar. He has
over four decades of study, research, and exploration into the interface between
ancient mysteries and modern science. Randall investigates and documents the
catastrophic history of the world and the evidence for advanced knowledge in
earlier cultures. On this episode, we get into the younger driest period, climate
change, asteroid impacts, the city of Atlantis, UFOs, and all sorts of
terrifying shit. Prepare yourselves folks, this episode will make you question
everything. Please welcome the great Randall Carlson.
Mr. Carlson, thank you so much for blessing us with your presence today.
Thanks for having me, Danny. It's a pleasure. Great little vacation, working vacation.
Yeah, yeah, not too far. Yeah, we're having fun. It was an eight-hour drive.
Not too bad. Not bad. 500 miles. Could be worse. Better than an eight-hour flight.
Yes. Yes, because I could stop and get out whenever I wanted and get
refreshment, and I didn't have to wear a mask the whole time. It's not quite
like Atlanta, Georgia down here in Florida. No. Florida we're doing,
actually we're winning as far as the COVID cases. I know, that's great. I'm
always come on Florida, man. Yeah, we're not too far behind you. Nope, you guys
aren't too far behind. No, we're all doing a lot better than California. Oh my
God, yes. And you know, where I live is a really pretty intense blue zone.
Everybody wears their dutifully wears their masks, but as soon as you get out
into the outer areas, the rural areas, nobody's been going on just like normal
pretty much. I spent a lot of time up in Dade County, which is the northwest
corner and exploring up there. I hardly have ever seen anybody wearing masks up
there for the whole, this entire thing. And last time I was up there, which
was in October, I didn't see any corpses piled up on the streets anywhere.
It's so strange. Like I was telling you, I was just in Asheville, North Carolina,
and it's the first time I've seen, I've been to a public place where everybody
was wearing masks. Well, it was strange to see. It was just, it was kind of
shocking. Yeah. Well, that's in Decatur where I live is pretty much the same
way. Right. And if you go around without your mask on, people look at you like
you're the devil incarnate. Well, you just, you actually just had COVID,
right? Yeah, we were out in Washington state doing a tour of the great flood
lands up there. And we may talk about that a little bit here in our interview
tonight. It's possible. Yeah. And yeah, we had a, there was 30 attendees and six
or seven or eight facilitators, so about say 36 to 38 people altogether. And on
day two, one of the attendees started feeling symptoms and he went into town,
got tested, came back and said, I tested positive. So he and his wife left. And
the rest of us went on with our tour for the next, it was a five day tour and the
end of five days, which is about the incubation period, several people
started feeling some symptoms. And then we all parted company when our separate
ways. And then we're doing a kind of a telegram chat amongst all of the tour
attendees. So it turned out about, I think somewhere around 22 people came down
with it, but nobody was too seriously affected. But here's what's interesting.
The fellow that brought it into the group, patient zero had been double
vaxed. The other thing was, is that over half the people that came down with it
had also been double vaxed. So that my own personal experience, along with a
number of others, experiences and experiences of people that I know first
hand suggests that maybe those vaccines aren't working like they were
touted to be. Yeah, it's I've there's tons of stories like that. Oh, yeah,
people, you know, it's it's known that if you're vaccinated, you can spread it
almost just as easily as if you're not vaccinated. Yeah. But they say, you know,
there's been claims that, you know, I don't know, I don't have any personal
experience with it. I don't think I've had COVID. But you know, they say that
it's supposed to relieve some of the symptoms when you are vaccinated. But
obviously you can speak to that better than I could because you have first hand
experience. Well, no, I don't have first hand experience with being vaxed.
Well, with getting COVID. But yeah, so I mean, it was I, my temperature topped
out for two days at 100 degrees, which isn't, you know, I was uncomfortable. I
was achy for four days, five days, didn't sleep well. But then I got the eye
medicine that you're not supposed to the horse dewormer, the horse dewormer. And
you know what, as soon as I started taking that, I turned the corner. My
wife, my son had it. There was no big deal with them. My brother started
coming down with it about four or five days after I got home from the tour. By
that time, I'd say I didn't get the horse dewormer until like four days
after I got back home. So I'd had four, maybe five days of incubation. So my
brother started feeling the symptoms, but we already had this stuff. And he
started doing the suggested dose and literally the next day, the next day, he
was feeling pretty normal. And by two days later, he felt perfectly fine. And
it completely sideline the whole phenomenon of having the COVID.
How much? How much? What was the dose of Ivermectin that you took?
12 milligrams. 12 milligrams. Okay. Yeah. So did you do anything else like
monoclonal antibodies or anything? No, I didn't do that, but did the megavitamins.
I did the quercetin and vitamin D, vitamin C, zinc, all of the stuff that
also mitigates the severity of the symptoms. So when somebody says to me,
well, the vaccines presumably mitigate the symptoms, maybe they do, maybe they
don't. I don't know. We've been told a lot of things. But there are studies
that show that the quercetin, the zinc, you know, mega doses of C and D, things
like that also do that. Right. So
but yeah, you know, since I got over it, feeling great, feeling really good.
And I, you know, typically every year I right around Thanksgiving, I get
something, it makes, puts me down for three, four, five days, just not like a
mild flu or something, you know, I feel achy, I get head achy, you know,
typical stuff, maybe some tender glands. And I started getting that a couple of
weeks ago. And I thought, Oh gosh, I'm getting this again, my yearly bout with
stuff. And then it just didn't happen. For two days, I felt like I was getting it
three days. And then I didn't. And I'm wondering if I can attribute that to
my immune system being overactive now, right, you know, in response to the to
the code, right, you probably have, you obviously have the antibodies now that
you had COVID tested positive. Right. So now that's, you know, what is the term
for that? You know, when you get COVID, that's that's, that's better than
actually having the vaccine is you know, have the natural immunity, natural
immunity. That's what I was looking for. That's typical when you have anything
like that. Right. You get a natural. Now the Corona viruses overall, which are
cold viruses, still, there's no cure. You just have to get it and get through it.
The scary thing about it is you can't have a fucking conversation about it on
the internet. That's the problem right there. You can't have a have a
conversation. And it's, it's like, you've got stories. I mean, I've known now
five people, four personally, one that my wife worked with. So I don't know him,
but she knew him worked with him for many years now that have had severe, severe
reactions to the vaccines. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I got, we have a client. I
was interviewing her in August about a potential project we might be doing next
year. And her and her, we'd done a previous project for her 14 years ago. I
know that because she was pregnant at the time when we were expanding, giving a
more room and creating a nursery and things like that. So now I'm back there.
Her 14 year old son then came out to say hello, you know, and so she told me
that now this is August and she had been vaxed in April. She said she still
could not sleep on her right side because the pain in her arm and her 14
year old son who loved sports was having a trouble with throwing balls and
stuff because something, you know, he was having trouble with his right arm. So I
figured in April to August, her right arm was still hurting. So, you know, that
was one another one. A good friend of my wife's took the first dose and got so
sick, she thought she was not even going to survive. And another one, the guy got
sick with it. This is one of my works with my wife and he was away from work
for a full month when he came back, you know, she talked to him and he'd been
in the hospital for a week with the COVID, but he'd been double vaxed. So
there you go.
Yeah, such a polarizing topic to talk about. There's so there's so there's so
much nuance to it. You know, I mean, like depending on who you are, how old you
are, what your, you know, preexisting medical conditions are, how you, how
different things affect you. Like I don't personally know anybody who's had a bad
reaction to it, but I've talked to a lot of people who do know people who have
had bad reactions to it. And I also know a lot of people who have had, including
my wife, who's in her early 20s, who's had really bad reaction to COVID when she
got it. She wasn't vaccinated. So it's just, you know, the problem is, you know,
trying to suppress certain sides of the narrative just gets, it gets crazy,
especially when you're on a website like we're on YouTube. And if you talk
about this, YouTube will do everything they can to de-incentivize you to talk
about anything that goes against vaccines. Right. It's almost like humanity
needs something to distract us, something like a big asteroid, big
asteroid, which brings us to another topic. Yes. That I've been wanting to
talk to you about. So for people who, if there are anybody, if there is anyone
out there who doesn't know who Randall Carlson is, why don't you let, give
those people a brief introduction to your background and your studies? Oh,
well, um, geez, um, you know, I'm, uh, as far as relative, relevant to what
we're going to be talking about here, I've been very interested in science
since I was literally since I was a kid. Um, and I majored in geology in college.
I didn't graduate because, uh, with a degree, because at the time, if you had
a geology degree, you could get a job in industry, typically in the, uh, you
know, in the energy sector and the mineral sector, or you could get a job with
the government. And I wasn't really interested in that. I was interested in
learning about the earth, everything I could learn about the earth and how it
functioned and what its history was as a, as a planet. And so, um, I took a
few years. Um, I also studied a lot of, um, astronomy. I studied, uh, mathematics
in order to be able to handle some of the equations and things. Um, studied
history, did not, I was a dropout. So, okay. Um, and I, but I've run my own
business for, uh, going on 40 years now as a contractor, which gives me the
flexibility. So I do all kinds of things, but primarily our, our, our business
that I work, uh, I'm partners with my younger brother, um, were third generation,
basically house builders. So I came up by the time we're, you know, 18 years
old, I pretty much knew the ins and outs of building a house. But you know, I've
been doing, uh, I got a, you know, secondary income now coming from the
podcast that I do, um, online sales and, and doing tours. We're doing a lot of
tours to take people out. Um, basically what I, what the objective of the tour
is, the tours that we do is I'm trying to teach people the, um, to read the
language of the earth because the premise that I'm working from is basically
this, is that inscribed into the surface of the earth, into the crust of the
earth is this epic story, this epic tale. And it's on such a large and grand
scale that we don't really see it. It's invisible because it's too big, but, uh,
and would have been impossible, um, a generation or two ago, but I employ, you
know, we, what we do is leading up to a tour. We do a series of briefings. We'll
do, we'll do zoom meetings, three, four zoom meetings. And I will basically
instruct people and teaching them, you know, exactly what, what is a Kooli and
why is it different than a Canyon? What is a drumlin? What are, you know, what
is mooring? What is a glacial till? Um, teaching them a few things about paleo
hydrology and what happens when great volumes of water are moving across the
landscape. How do they shape the landscape? What are the features that they
produce? What is a point bar? What is a cut bank? Um, you know, what is a boulder
bar? What is a, you know, I teach them a little bit about stratigraphy and a
little bit about sedimentology. Then when we're out in the field, uh, they've
already got some conceptual awareness. They've got some vocabulary. We can visit
sites and then, um, I'll explain. And what we do is we'll, we'll travel around
when we did that, the tour that, you know, the, uh, that we got the COVID on that
we were just talking about, you know, that was a week, five day, a five day tour
up in the Eastern, the floodlands of Eastern Washington. And we can look at
some of that here, um, tonight. And that was the setting for some of the greatest
floods ever documented to have occurred in the history of this planet. And we're
talking about water flows that would be measured in hundreds of millions of cubic
feet per second, which is kind of really almost inconceivable. One of the
standards I used to help people wrap their heads around what we're talking
about is that we look at some of the largest historical floods, say in, in
America, Mississippi River flooded 1923 and again, 1993. And the 1993 flood of the
Mississippi River is considered to be one of the most economically, uh,
expensive, uh, disasters in American history, the total volume of, or total
worth value of, of the damage done by that flood. Typically, I think the
Mississippi River runs at about 150,000 cubic feet per second, something like
that, maybe 200,000. Um, but during these two floods, it topped out over a
million cubic feet per second. Right. Okay. Now, now some of the floods and some
of the things that we've been looking at in Eastern Washington, where I took
people, I took them to places where the water flow going through there was been
seven to 800 million cubic feet per second. How do you even understand or
visualize? You can't. You can't wrap your mind around it. You can't wrap your
mind around it, but we can talk about it all day. We can look at photographs. We
can look at, at, at video and now I'm collecting a lot of drone footage, which
is, which is a new perspective on this stuff. Um, when I started exploring these,
these landscapes in the nineties, you know, there was no drones, you know, um,
mostly we were just using, um, you know, still images and I would hire pilots to
take me up. Right. Um, you know, so I got a lot of aerial footage that I took
back in the nineties, early 2000s and things of, of some of these, because you
can't, from the ground, you just, you can't get the perspective. So now what I
do is, you know, we have, we use, of course, there's all, you know, there's,
um, you know, NASA photography, there's aerial photography. Now there's LIDAR,
which has opened up a whole new vista of understanding the landscape under our
feet. Um, and you know, there's now always somebody who comes on the tour,
somebody who's, you know, an experienced drone pilot. And so we get, we're
getting accumulating a whole lot of drone footage and this is starting to go up
on my website now that it's devoted to this. Um, but see, once you begin to
understand these floods, now the Eastern Northwestern floods of Washington are
some of the most spectacular and they're spectacular because they're, they're
journey from their source to their ultimate, um, where they're ultimately
heading, which is the Pacific Ocean is a relatively short span. The gradient is
steeper. Now you had gigantic floods coming down the Mississippi River and
these floods that I'm talking about are all coming from melting glacier ice
because if we go back 13,000 years ago to say 25,000 years ago, more than half of
the North American continent was buried under a mantle of ice bigger than the
one that is now covering the South Pole, right? Now, how do you, again, how do
you, how do you, how do you get that? We're, we're, you know, well, we don't
have an explanation. There's no explanation how you can get from the present
day North American environment to an environment that's close as modern
analog is the South Pole of the world, of the planet. Right. But it was, um, and
what we can look at some slides here in a minute that kind of conveys graphically
what the earth would have looked like, say 15 to 20,000 years ago. One of the
most fascinating things to me is how, uh, through studies that you've done as
well as people like Graham Hancock is that these ancient biblical myths and
stories are now scientific studies. They're becoming real science. We've
got a new branch of geology called geomythology, which basically looks at
archaic accounts, traditional accounts that have come down to us by whatever
venue, you know, biblical, like you just mentioned, is of course a very rich
source, but all kinds of myths have, um, hundreds, right? Oh yeah, hundreds. If
we're talking about floods, um, we've got at least several hundred that have
accounts. John or Sir James Frazier was one of the first, I think in his, um,
his work early 20th century, where he just collected a lot of the flood myths
from around the world. And it's, it's amazing. The parallels, um, usually,
you know, um, there've been, there've been ways that, that academics have been
able to, um, sidestep the implications of that, um, by concocting a lot of very
weird, usually it comes down to, oh, well, it was a, it was a local or regional
flood that was, that was bad, but it was nothing, you know, on a scale that would
have been planetary. Um, and then through the telling and retelling through
generations, it just got blown out of proportion and exaggerated. And that
would be the primary explanation. The people though that are concocting those
kinds of explanations don't know anything about geology. They don't know
anything about glaciology or paleo hydrology or the kinds of subjects that
would allow you to go into the field and actually observe firsthand these
landscapes that are by the, the byproduct.
That's the thing about this, right? Is that there's so many different, uh,
there's so many different studies like geology and glaciology and so many
things. It's almost impossible for one person to have a comprehensive
understanding of all those subjects.
Yes, that's very rare. Yeah, it's you are a unicorn.
Well, it's, it's definitely, you know, um, an interdisciplinary study. And I,
you know, I basically call it catastrophism, catastrophes studies. And
to really, to be, um, you know, very knowledgeable and catastrophes studies,
you have to know geology. You have to know some astronomy. You have to know
some paleontology. You have to know some sedimentology, some stratigraphy, all
of that. You have to know about impact geology. There's a lot of things that
and so, you know, people have different things that they're obsessed with and
like, you know, uh, that's my thing. I, when I, I use all my spare time to
study, study, I research, study, and then I'll look at, uh, studies that come
out, or, you know, whether they're, they're brand new or even older studies.
And then I use those as guidelines and I design field trips and, uh, things
around that to go and end up like when I first started in, uh, visiting these
floodlands of the Pacific Northwest, which is going to be mostly Washington,
but also Oregon, Idaho, and Montana. I, uh, was using early papers that were
written in 1920s and 1930s by one of the pioneers of catastrophist flood
geology, which was Jay Harlan Bretz. So I had reprints of all of his papers and
I use those as kind of guidelines and followed in his footsteps as much as
possible. Um, and he was, of course, uh, very much ostracized by the geological
community back in the 20s and 30s who were strictly grounded in very
gradualist models, uniformitarian, uniformitarianism was what the, the
dominant, um, model of geological change was called. And, uh, it was the idea
that, uh, and it's a powerful idea. The present is the key to the past. And
you basically, in order to try to understand what happened in the past,
you look at processes that are happening today that we can witness on a day to
day or a year to year basis. And then we extrapolate backwards. So the problem
with that though, is that it became entrenched dogma. And what that meant
was that only processes that we're seeing today in terms of scales and
rates of change and magnitudes and things, anything beyond that was
considered to be pseudoscience or science fiction. And so you couldn't talk
about, you know, giant floods. But, you know, part of that goes back to the
origins of geology when you had, uh, you know, in the late 16, early 17 through
the 1700s, the 18th century, you had this conflict between science and
religion. And, you know, the, the, the literalists say the biblical literalists
had a lot of political power before the scientific enlightenment. And so, you
know, what the bishops ruled and what, what Rome ruled about, you know, what
was accessible, uh, you know, then it was, you had to break away with the
Protestants, but they were pretty much the same way, very fundamentalist about
taking the Bible literally, right? And so, you know, and in, in that model, the
earth is only six or 7,000 years old. And that was one of the big conflicts in
the early days of geology is it become, uh, obvious to anybody who really
started studying the strata of the earth that it could not possibly be only
7,000 years old. And, um, you know, Grand Canyon is the, is the, you know,
ideal, uh, exemplification of that idea because you've got, you know, when
you, you know, geologists now can look and you can say, okay, you've got
sandstone. Sandstone is formed obviously from sand, but that sand can be
either sand on the beach or sand in the desert. If it's sand on the beach, it's
being shaped by waves and water, right? If it's in the desert, it's being
shaped by wind and we can go and we can look at sand in the desert today and
sand on the beach today and we can look at the forms that are being, that it's
being shaped into by the forces at work on it and see they're very distinct and
different. Well, then you can go and look at sandstone rocks and you'll see the
same types of formations and things and go, okay, well, that looks just like what
we might see in a modern desert if we took a cross section of a dune and
looked at it and there it is. Okay. So now you got sandstone. Now you got
limestone. Limestone is going to be formed in a, in a, usually in a, in a
shallow marine environment. Okay. You might have a, a peat, uh, that forms
shales. Okay. So shales come from like muddy material originally. You have mud
stone that can become, uh, metamorphosized ultimately into shale and then if
that's further metamorphosized, it becomes slate, right? Metamorphic means
it's been subject to heat and pressure. Well, you can look at all these different
kind of rocks and you might have an igneous rock. You might have a, a, a, a
granite, which is a type of igneous rock that forms below the surface. You might
have basalt, which is an igneous rock that forms outside of the surface. Now,
where I go up there in Eastern Washington, there is called the Columbia
basalt plateau. And around 17 million years ago, there was a major wound in
the surface of the earth. It's right now where Yellowstone, the Yellowstone, uh,
hotspot is the, the mantle plume that comes up under Yellowstone, um, caused
tremendous outflowing of basaltic lavish that created this Columbia basalt
plateau. Now there are, it, there was 10 million years of these, um, this was 17
million years between 17 million and maybe seven or eight million years ago.
Okay. It can't finally pretty much stopped. The early flows were the, the,
the most voluminous and then it sort of declined in, in volume over, over the
time, but you'll get a layer of basalt. And then if there's a stretch of time of
a few thousand to tens of thousands of years, what happens is soil will form on
there. Vegetation will grow. You'll have trees and, and all of this. And then
another layer of lava comes in and drowns that. Well, sandwiched in between
those layers of basalt, you can find the evidence that there was this hiatus. You
know, you can find the remnants of seeds and, and, and branches and, and
vegetation and stuff actually sandwiched between. So that will tell you that,
okay, so there was a hiatus and then that say a forest was there. It was
drowned by lava and then that lava cooled, new soil formed, another forest
grew, et cetera. And then you can go below it and you find ancient granites,
right? Now you can go and when you begin looking at the stratigraphy, you can
see, okay, if you've got, let's say you've got a beach, right? And now the
ocean rises. That's called a transgression. The ocean rises and now that
drowns the beach. And now you've got an ocean, say a marine environment over
it. So now you get all of the creatures and things that live in that marine
environment. The little creatures that form their shells out of calcium
carbonate, they, they die and they drift to the bottom. And eventually they
form thick layers of what is now limestone rock. And you can tell it's
got fossils in it. You can tell that it was the calcium carbonate because if
you put acid on it, it'll bubble, right? So now you, if you have a beach, okay,
the ocean rises, now you have layers of limestone, right? So now if the beach
recedes, as it's receding, maybe the swamps or the forest there will follow
it. And then eventually you'll get a layer of shale. And then you see that
that that succession repeats itself. Sandstone, limestone shale. And then
there might be more sandstones that you can tell that it was a beach. So it goes
through this whole cycle and then it does that over and over again, you see. And
you go, okay, this could not possibly, you couldn't get a layer of limestone
200 feet thick over a layer of sandstone that's just as thick, right? In 7,000
years. You just, you can't do it. Right. So this was the conflict there that in
the early days of geology. So coming back to J. Harland Bretts and his studies
on the great floodlands of the Pacific Northwest, the attitude was, well, hey,
you're trying to bring back, take us back to biblical fundamentalism with your
flood theories. We don't want to go there. So it took like 30 years before
mainstream geology finally accepted that Bretts' gigantic floods were real. And
they really did happen. And they were on the scale that he was describing. Now,
obviously you can look at this and you're going to see a phenomena that a
hydraulic event that includes Western Montana, Northern Idaho, half of
Washington state and Northern Oregon, right? But that's not the whole planet.
So, you know, it's one thing to say you've got a flood that's 300, 400, 500
million cubic feet per second, right, which is beyond anything. Well, here's
another another way to think about it. If you took every single river on earth,
think about all the continents from North America, South America, we'd be
talking about the Mississippi, the Columbia, the Missouri, you know, the
Ohio, all of those up in Canada, you'd have the Yukon and the Mackenzie in
South America, you'd have the Orinoco and the Amazon in Europe, you could have,
you know, the Poe and the Thames and you go all of those rivers, you go to the
Yellow River in China and all of the rivers there, all the rivers, the Nile
River, the Congo River, add all these rivers up. You're still only looking
at about one 20th, the volume of one of these flows that swept over Eastern
Washington. So, how do you even explain something like that? How do you see,
and this is where?
Instantaneously, like out of nowhere?
Well, it's out of somewhere. There is an explanation. There's a naturalistic
explanation how you do that. Now, here's the other thing that you got to
understand is that while that is happening there, there are other gigantic
floods happening in other places around the planet. Something really
extraordinary happened around 12,800 to 13,000 years ago at the end of the last
ice age. Now, I say ice age because the volume of ice on earth was more than
double what it is now. But half of that ice is gone. And in terms of geological
timescales, it was like that.
So, something melted all that ice in a very short period of time?
You got it. What could it have been? And to me, it only comes down to two
things. Possibly asteroid impacts or impacts, I'll say, bolide impacts
because the term bolide can be anything that it can be a rock, it can be a piece
of a comet. It's something that comes out of the sky and, say, encounters, it
hits the earth, right? Or the sun. Or the sun. Or the sun. Or a combination of
the two. I don't know what else there would be. I've looked at things on a
galactic level. I don't think that it would be on that level. I think the most
likely explanation is that you had an impact. However, there are new studies
out that have been coming out in the last 20 years ever since we've started
with them. Once we've deployed solar observing satellites, we've seen
something very interesting, that there seems to be a connection between
hyperactivity on the sun and the infall of what's called the Creutz
sun grazers, which is a family of comets that nobody knew about until we
deployed solar observing satellites, or at least I think maybe they were
suspected, but we hadn't really observed them. Now we're seeing that
constantly there's cometary masses falling into the sun. And they're
generally small. However, as we may talk about here, when we get into the
younger dryness in a moment, there's evidence now that somewhere between 20
and, say, 25, 26,000 years ago, a really big comet came into the inner solar
system, kind of got caught up in this ping-pong game between the sun and
Jupiter, right? And that comet began to undergo a hierarchical fragmentation,
littering the inner solar system with the byproducts of its destruction, and
that the Earth may have encountered that material on more than one occasion. A
lot of it could have been swept into the sun. And what those Creutz sun
grazers are telling us is that these hypervelocity impacts into the sun
may be triggering solar storms, coronal mass ejections and things. So giant
fireball got shot at the Earth, maybe something like that. And interestingly,
so what it might mean then is that you almost have this perfect storm. If you
have the injection into the inner solar system of a very large mass of
cosmic debris, if you want to call it that, some of it's going to hit the
Earth, some of it's going to hit the moon, some of it's going to probably hit
Mars. Most of it will end up probably being swept up by the sun, which is the
biggest mass. Typically, when a comet, let's say, comes in and it's making
this Jovian circuit, Jupiterian circuit, it's going out to the orbit of
Jupiter, it comes back in and circles around the sun. When it comes in and
makes that close passage to the sun, that's called the perihelion next to
the sun, right? Typically, because the sun is such a strong gravitational
force, often what happens is cometary masses disintegrate when they're at
their perihelion point or short shortly thereafter. So we we saw something
very similar. We were talking about it the other night over dinner. The
Schumacher-Levy 9 event of 1994, right? You had a single cometary mass that
passed by Jupiter in March of 1993. It passed so close to Jupiter that
Jupiter's ultra strong gravity force of gravity field literally ripped one
cometary nucleus into 21, if you want to call them sub nuclei. And then those
21 objects then formed a what was called the string of pearls as they moved
away from Jupiter, they began to spread out in a long line. They made a
passage by the sun and as they circled back out towards Jupiter, they arrived
to Jupiter's orbit the same week that Jupiter was at that same position. So
you had 21 impacts over one week of July 1994, 21 impacts into Jupiter. And
any one of those impacts, I think that from what I recall those objects,
individual objects were some of more a kilometer and more in diameter. Now if
we had something a kilometer in diameter or more strike the earth, it would
pretty much throw our whole civilization into a serious tailspin. It
would have economic consequences that would take probably decades to work
out. In the immediate area of the impact, nothing would remain. It would be
completely annihilated. And then the secondary consequences of an impact like
that would have major repercussions on the rest of the world in terms of
climate and things would be on the scale of like roughly dozens of hydrogen
bombs. Oh yes. Oh yes. In fact, we can actually look at some of that for
comparison. There was there was an object, one of the main things that I
really get into studying talking about is the that famous 1908 event over
Siberia, the Tunguska. And that was an object, probably a byproduct of this
very same comet that we're talking about here that is what that has produced
what is now known as the torrid meteor streams, which is a family of these
meteor streams that is still out there. There's several known comets within
that stream. There are several known asteroids. Earth crosses that stream
twice each year. It's called the torrid stream torrid meteor stream. Earth
crosses in late June, early July, and in late October, early November. And
interestingly, that particular stream, it peaks right around Halloween. So it's
been called the Halloween meteors. Anyways, so the object that didn't
actually strike the ground, most people would think, you know, an object coming
in is going to strike the ground. And in that all depends on the density of the
object, really. If it's a and think about the family of extraterrestrial
creatures that might the earth might encounter, you have a scale, a density
scale that starts at about the density of water, which is one gram per cubic
centimeter. And that would be primarily a cometary mass that's mostly ice,
right? On the other end, you'd have an iron asteroid and an iron asteroid
would have roughly the density of a piece of cast iron. So imagine that you've
got, in one hand, a chunk of cast iron. And the other hand, you got a snowball.
That's the two endpoints of the continuum. And then you've got the whole
range of things in between. So you've got stony asteroids that are about right
in the middle, right? Now, if you think about it, even the layperson, it makes
sense that, say, an object as hard as a piece of cast iron is going to be able
to penetrate through the atmosphere a lot more effectively and actually strike
the ground than something that has the composition of a snowball or the density
of a snowball. Now, the Tungusk object was on the lower end of the spectrum,
right? So it was not able to penetrate the full depth of the atmosphere, and it
exploded about five miles up. Now, what you have to picture is that that
thing. Five miles. Five miles. So you have to picture is that thing's entering
the atmosphere, what it's doing. It's moving so fast that the atmosphere
and doesn't have time really to move out of the way, and it compresses the
atmosphere. And literally, the atmosphere becomes almost like a brick wall at
some point. Very much like, you know, the atmosphere is a fluid. Now, have you
ever done a belly flop? Well, okay, right? Now, if you do belly flop, you
know that even though it's water, it can still provide a tremendous amount of
forceful resistance, right? That's what the atmosphere does, right? So the
object comes in early morning, June 30th, 1908. Now, interestingly, remember I
just said that the that the the peak, one of the the what is called the
summertime torrids is late June, early July. So in terms of the window of when
the earth is encountering debris from the torrid meteor stream, the Tungusk
object was right in perfect timing, right? June 30th came in early in the
morning. Now, and it ends in around October or on Halloween, you said? No, no,
that's it's almost like this. Imagine that you've got a racetrack. It's a
soliptical racetrack. And all of this stuff is moving around the racetrack. And
then here comes the earth crosses one side. And then it's out free of it. And
then goes through again, goes through again. Got it. Right. So in in the summer,
it's earth is crossing the stream when that material is coming from behind the
sun. And see, one of the one of the consequences of that is that you don't
really see the meteors, the torrid meteors in the summertime, because you're
looking in the direction of the sun, right? If you want to see torrid
meteors, you have to watch in the fall because that's when they're coming from
the direction of space, most generally the the direction of their back lit by
the sun or their lit by the sun, their front lit by the sun. You got it, right?
You got it. And so you're not looking at the sun. You're looking away from the
sun, right? Got it. So that's the Halloween meteors, if you want to call
them. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, yeah, it does. And I got a graphic when you
pull up and look at it here in the man. Yeah, for for people who are only
listening to this podcast, it is definitely one of the ones you want to
pull up on YouTube and watch it because Randall's brought a deep library of
slides that we're going to be going through to illustrate a lot of the
things he's talking about. Yeah, the so much of this is, you know, you really
don't get it until you've seen the graphic, the images and stuff. And then I
think it's so we it's so crazy how that will the Tunguska asteroid, which was
in 19 or eight, when was it? 1908 1908. And it exploded five miles in the air.
Yes. And it still caused so much devastation to the surface of the
earth. About 820 miles of old growth. Taiga forest was decimated, completely
just blown over. These are trees two and three feet thick. I forget what it was
at 80 million trees instantly snapped off like their twigs. The force of that
explosion was about equivalent to a 15 megaton, maybe 20 megaton in that
range. Hydrogen bomb. Now, in the peak of the Cold War, the largest bomb, the
largest warhead deployed by the US was roughly 15 megatons. And that was, you
know, that was part of the whole mutual assured destruction that, you know, if
if the Soviet Union launched a first strike at us, we would have enough
retaliatory capacity still completely wipe them out. And so one 15 megaton
hydrogen bomb is enough to wipe out any metropolitan urban area on the earth. I
mean, think about this. Let's see if I go 15 megatons, that's 15 million tons of
TNT. Now to give you a comparison, that would be the equivalent of 1500 atomic
bombs that destroyed Hiroshima.
That's unfathomable. Yeah, that's one hydrogen bomb warhead, right? 15
megatons. Actually, no, it's more than that because the the the bomb that took
out Hiroshima was only about 10,000 kilotons. So, you know, it'd be even
more than that. But it gives you an idea. I think that the Nagasaki Hiroshima
Nagasaki bombs, they they detonated those in the air as well. That's right. Why
did they do it near because the radius of destruction is greater in the
atmosphere? Because if it strikes the ground, a lot of that energy is absorbed
by the ground, right? So if you want to knock over the maximum number of
buildings and kill the maximum number of people, you detonate it in the
atmosphere. Now, that's exactly what happened with the Tunguska object. Now,
as it turns out, there's no known direct deaths from that because it was so
remote. In fact, it was so remote that it took Leonid Kulik, I think 19 years
later, he finally was able to get to the site. And, you know, it was it was very
disorienting to him as he ascended this ridge and then looked out for the first
time and saw the remnants of this destruction. Now, if you look at any
modern urban area, and in fact, I think I have in here a map of say Atlanta, it's
got a 285 is the surrounding perimeter freeway. Washington DC has roughly the
same size of perimeter freeway. The area within that freeway, which is the
entire metropolitan area of Atlanta plus the outlying suburbs is about the
roughly the area of devastation of the Tunguska blast. So again, a Tunguska one
object and see, here's the thing. How big was that object? I was about to say,
here's the thing. It's about 50 meters in diameter, which means roughly 160
feet. So that that that's a baby. That's a cosmic spec that we're talking about
there. I mean, the Chelyabinsk had happened in was a 2013 also over
little town of Siberia. That was like only a 10th the size, if even that of
the Tunguska object, it detonated like, what was it 15 miles up? But it still
caused 1500 injuries. Nobody was killed. But it caused 1500 injuries. Some of
them serious. And it also damaged 7000 buildings. And I don't know if you've
ever seen some of the video clips of that. But you know, when the I think I
have, yeah, the the sound wave, the shock wave, when that thing hit is pretty
mind blown. Where did it hit? It's a little town called Chelyabinsk also in
Siberia. So yeah, so it was not anywhere close to the magnitude of the
Tungusk object. But there's a possibility that it also was part of the same
toward media stream. There's a there's a paper that just came out on new
studies of the toward media stream that think that it might they've actually
referred to it as the smoking gun for the Younger Dryas event. So what are the
theorized locations for some sort of an impact during the Younger Dryas? Like I'm
sure, you know, this is the big question. But well, just like with the Cretaceous
Tertiary impact that wiped out the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. For 10
years, the critics said, Well, we're not buying this scenario because you can't
produce a crater. You know, if there was a huge impact 66 million years ago that
wiped out all of the dinosaurs on earth, where's the crater? Right? So it took 10
years, but then the crater was found and it's buried under like a half a mile of
limestone under northern Yucatan Peninsula. And subsequent studies have
confirmed over and over again that yes, it's a buried crater, which is called an
astrobleem, which literally translates as star wound, a star wound. What was the
name of the rock that hit that killed the dinosaurs? Well, it doesn't really
have a name, but the crater is called the Cheek Shalub. The Cheek Shalub. Cheek Shalub.
Cheek Shalub. And that's the name of a little Mayan village that sits on the
northern coast of the Yucatan. Now, here's some of this stuff where it kind of
gets bizarre and takes us back to some of these ideas like geomethology and
astro mythology. Like there's no way they could have possibly known about it,
right? But, and again, I can pull up here and we'll look at the look at the
the ground penetrating radar surveys of the giant 120, 130 mile wide scar in
your surface astrobleem star wound, right? Now typically. God, that's how big it is.
That's insane. Yeah. Yeah, I know. Yeah. So, and you know, that was probably not the
only impact at that time. Right. Anyways, if you look at the structure of these
large impact events, there, there, there's several things that characterize them.
They're, they have multi, multiple rings, because you've all seen you throw a rock
in a pond, rings emanate out. Right. And right where the, where the, if you throw
a rock in the pond, it's going to be a splash that comes up, right? And
immediately falls back down. Well, in an impact like that, a hypervelocity impact,
it basically liquefies the crust and it sends multiple rings moving out, but
they're rapidly cooling as they move out. And then at some point, they, they cool
enough that they crystallize and they sort of get locked into the landscape. So
you can see the multiple rings and then in the center, there will be a central
uplift that usually forms a peak, right? And that peak is where the ground, this
molten ground is rebounding and then it'll come up and then it'll literally
like freeze, freeze and crystallize and create this upward peak. This is called
the central peak. So the cretaceous tertiary impact, the cheek chelube impact
has a central peak and it's directly in the center and sitting on the ground
surface above where that central peak is, is the little town of cheek chelube,
which is a Mayan term. Interestingly, in the court, there's only be a
coincidence, right? The translation of cheek chelube literally means the horn
of the devil. Oh my God. So I've always thought that was rather interesting.
Cheek chelube. Cheek chelube. Cheek chelube. That's it. Yeah. Cheek chelube.
And that town is right basically in the center of that crater. Yeah. Well, it's
not a crater because it's buried. Right. It's an astrobleem. So you'd have to
strip away like half a mile of limestone to get to the thing. So it's
buried. You can't, the only indication that it's there is the ring of
cenotes that sit just inside the rim of the great buried crater. And these are
essentially like solution, almost like potholes, collapsed caverns that have
formed in the limestone. And that ring of cenotes forms, it delineates the rim
of the giant underground crater. And which is interesting because these cenotes,
many of them are considered sacred to the Mayans for various reasons. You know,
the northern Yucatan Peninsula is composed of porous limestone. And so there's
no overground rivers. All the rivers flow north there and they flow under. They
flow under the surface of the ground. But they're linked into this gigantic,
unfathomably huge labyrinth of these underground caves and tunnels that are
the result of water percolating through this fractured limestone created by the
impact. We, I didn't come, we don't have it. We don't have it booted up now. But
in the show, you know, when I did research down in the Yucatan, I visited
cenotes, went diving in some of them. It had no bottoms scared. Yeah. I didn't, I
didn't do the profile. I basically just did the, I didn't do the serious diving
like some. I didn't have the equipment, but the, but I was there with people who
had been exploring these cenotes for years and had never found bottoms to
them because they just, they go in, and there's hundreds of them, probably
thousands of them. But the Mayans would build their, their towns and their
villages around the cenotes because that was the source of water. And like a
Chichen Itza, there's two cenotes there. And one of them is called the Well of
Sacrifice. And it's become, it's become filled with stuff. So it doesn't seem to
link directly in. But if you dug all the sediment out that's accumulated, and it
may connect, but they held ceremonies there, you know, in pre-Columbian times.
And there, those ceremonies were interesting because they would, they
would carve pipes, typically wooden pipes that were hollow from both ends. And
they would carve them to look like a serpent. And the mouth of the serpent
would be open. The pipes would be hollow, right? And then they would take a ball
of copal resin and put in the mouth of the serpent, light it on fire. And then
the burning copal would create smoke that went through the, the hollow pipe of
the serpent and come out its tail. And they would hold ceremonies. Typically
they assumed that they were probably doing sacrifices there at well at the
time. And they would throw these pipes of burning copal down into the Well of
Sacrifice to represent cosmic shit falling to earth and destroying the
earth. Whoa. In that bizarre, I mean. Yeah. To say the least. To say the least. Yeah.
Yeah. And in dozens of these, these serpent effigies have been excavated from
the Well of Sacrifice. Most of them are in the Carnegie Museum right now. But
yeah, I mean, in the future thing, I've got slides. You can see the whole
thing. I'm showing you. I've got the slides of the, the, the cenotes. I've got
the slides of some of the artifacts pulled out. So yeah, they, these guys
were hip to something.
So the Younger Dryas impact was most likely over what happened. It's
covered by an ocean right now.
No, that's the Cretacea Tertiary.
Okay.
So it's 66 million years ago.
But the Younger Dryas not, is not covered by the ocean right now. Where the,
where the impact happened?
Well, see, just as I was saying before.
If it was an impact.
Okay. Let's back up for a second. Because I remember what I was saying is
that, you know, one of the primary objections of the critics, the skeptics
saying, Oh, no, you know, the, the, the was not an impact. It was a long
protracted extermination of the dinosaurs, et cetera, et cetera. And if
you can't produce a crater, you know, you got, for us to, to start buying into
this theory, you have to produce the smoking gun, which is the crater, right?
Well, then the crater got produced. They found the crater. And in fact, several
other craters, smaller ones that seem to be date right to the same age. In
fact, Indian geologists have found what they think is the Shiva crater, which
is the same age off the coast of India and in the Indian Ocean, right? So I
haven't seen the latest studies to see if that's been verified or not. But the
studies I've seen suggest that the Indian geologists really do believe there's
just a giant KT boundary crater on the bottom of the Indian Ocean, which means
it might have been a double whammy. Now it might have not happened at the same
time, but over a short period of interval, short interval. And one of the
scenarios that's kind of emerging now from studies of the cosmic environment is
that there may be periods that you might think of as a bombardment epoch where
you have longer periods where bombardments are relatively isolated in
a few and then there'll be a clustering. See, so a lot of the critics of the
dinosaur extermination said, well, they didn't all go extinct at once. So
therefore it couldn't have been an impact. Well, what they're doing is they're
imagining only a very almost obsolete model of impacts is that they only
happen in isolation randomly one at a time. They weren't even conceiving of
the fact that you may have periods of time where you have multiple impacts
occurring over a short period of time or even multiple impacts occurring all at
once, like Shoemaker leaving nine. Right. In terms, we could think of that as, I
mean, all of those impacts, 21 impacts took place in less than a week. So that
you could think of as in a geological sense, that's simultaneous, right? Right.
So now the question is, and you get some of the same objections with the
younger dryus boundary impact is that, well, where's the smoking gun? Where's
the crater? So, but here's the problem. As I see it, if you've got an impact
into an ocean, well, chances are crater is going to be very difficult to find.
Right. And if it's a two mile deep ocean and a one kilometer diameter
impactor, the crater, what's called the transient crater is only going to be a
very short lived. It's going to be in the water. Now it's going to create huge
tsunamis. Right. So now those tsunamis may leave deposits that could then be
identified and dated, particularly if there's, you know, datable material in
there. If it's happened within the last 50,000 years, there's probably organic
material that can be radiocarbon dated. Right. But so that would be one thing you
could look for to try to identify oceanic impacts. Now you go back to the
ice age, there's approximately six to seven million additional square miles of
the earth's surface that is covered by massive ice sheets. Most of that is in
the northern hemisphere. Now, if you have a bombardment in the northern
hemisphere at this time, the chances are much higher that that impact could have
been into an ice sheet. Ice. Yeah. And was it basically all of Canada was covered
in ice? All of Canada was covered in ice and a lot of the northern United
States. And the accepted scientific theory is that this was a gradualistic
climate change. Yes. But that doesn't hold up anymore. I mean, in the old days,
you could go back a few generations ago, coming say out of World War II, the
belief was still that it was tens of thousands of years. Then radiocarbon
dating came along. The problem with radiocarbon dating is is the the
time span of deglaciation got contracted immensely. In other words, instead of
being 50,000 years, now it was 10,000 years. Because here's the thing. If it
was 50,000 years or 100,000 years that you had this slow accumulation of ice
over, say, North America, more than half of North America, and then this slow
disappearance, right? Well, if it came on, let's say 75 to 100,000 years ago, the
process began. Well, where the ice is or was, you're not going to have forests,
are you? Forests aren't going to be growing where you've got thousands of
feet of ice, right? Well, now that we can go in and we can take core samples of,
you know, where the ice was, what do you think they're finding? They're finding
remains of forests. They're like 30 and 40,000 years old. So what does that mean?
Well, it means that you have to bring those glaciers on a whole lot quicker and
get rid of them a whole lot quicker than anybody had previously been imagining.
Yeah, didn't you say something like there was woolly mammoths that were
flash-frozen, like in an instant? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, you say an instant, but,
you know, within a few hours, hours, hours, yeah. The most famous being the
Beresovka mammoth of, I think, was found in 1901. And that's the most famous one
that pretty much everybody, there's been a lot of flash-frozen, mummified
remains of Pleistocene mammals that have been found. But this is one of the most
famous. And I still don't know the full, I don't know the explanation for this,
other than the fact that it had to have been a catastrophic event. But the woolly
mammoth was found about, I think, was six tons, right, body mass, found in a frozen,
in the permafrost on a riverbank, right? And with the degla-, with the warming of
the climate that began in the late 1800s, early 1900s, the riverbank collapsed and exposed
this guy who had been sitting frozen in, in the, in the matrix, this matrix of frozen
permafrost, right? Mm-hmm. They were able to, and that first year, no, there was no
scientific studies. I think it was a year to two years later when the, the first
scientific studies took place. Anyways, they get there and in the interim,
the skull had been exposed and wolves apparently had eaten the flesh off of the, the skull.
But the flesh of the remainder of the mammoth was still intact and it was sitting on its haunches
and in its mouth was a mass of vegetation that it had been eating that it didn't even have time
to swallow. And in its stomach there was about 27 different types, species of hedges and plants
and things, including flowering plants. Now, a mammoth is a grazer, which means that it,
it grazes underground, as opposed, like, say, to a mastodon, which is a browser. It likes to eat
tree branches and tree leaves and things like that. But, so, by an analysis of the stomach contents,
which was not putrified, they were able to identify many of these different kinds of plants,
flowering plants even, that this, this poor guy was munching on, right? And he's sitting on his
haunches and both of his, his pelvic bones are broken, like we're suggesting that he was thrown
back very violently, um, an erect penis. Now, what that means is that, uh, was caused by suffocation.
Really? Yes. That's right. That's one of the things that, and it, because the suffocation,
the pressure of the enclosing matrix of material, I guess, forces the blood out to the extremities.
So, that's wild. Isn't that wild? That is fucking wild. I did not know that.
No, a lot of people don't know that. The only man was with boners. Yeah.
Yeah. So, you start putting all that together. Frozen. Yeah. Think about this. The guy, poor guy,
is standing there munching. It's probably fall based upon the, the, the seeds and the pollens and the,
the status of the, the flowering plants. It was probably fall. A fairly, you know, benign day.
The, the guy is standing there munching is having his lunch or whatever. And then, all of a sudden,
boom, a shockwave throws him back on his haunches so violently that his pelvic bones are broken.
He's immediately covered in a massive material. Um, and then that massive material is completely
frozen so quickly and so cold that the entire carcass basically has to be frozen through and
through within 10 hours, or the contents of the stomach would become putrified, which it wasn't.
Right. So, the entire carcass is frozen, the six ton mammoth. How do you explain that? And the
answer is, I don't know. Right. I really don't know. Other than the fact that one possibility,
to me, is that if you have an object rapidly, you know, moving at say, you know, 20 miles,
15 to 20 miles per second, given that the atmosphere is only about eight miles thick,
if you've got an object that's coming in and moving, you know, at 15 miles per second,
it's only going to take half a second to penetrate the entire atmosphere. So it may
actually blow out a hole and bring in, um, you know, gases that are close to, to absolute zero.
Oh my God. And that could be one explanation, but I don't know the, it needs to be, it's one of
those conundrums of geology that needs to be addressed. Um, you know, the old days, they'd say,
oh, well, he fell in a crevice and then got buried. And problem with that is, is that we can see
modern examples of like, caribou falling into crevices, or modern elephants, um, you know,
dying around water holes and things. And carcasses are not preserved. You know, you have to have
unusual conditions to preserve, particularly of a mega-mammal, which is defined as any
mammal over 100 pounds in body weight, roughly. Right. Um, you know, during the, some of those
horrible droughts in sub-Saharan Africa in the 80s, you had massive elephant mortality around car,
water holes. Typically, you've got an elephant that dies there. It's carcass decays. Uh, scavengers
will eat the flesh and carry off bones and stuff. Typically, within five years, there was no evidence
that you'd had a, a five ton elephant laying there, carcass laying there next to the water hole.
So typically for any animal to become a, uh, uh, part of the, the fossil record,
they have to be removed rapidly from the, um, uh, forces that would normally recycle the remains.
I mean, think about this, you know, during the, uh, post-Civil War 1870s, 1880s in there, there
was a tremendous slaughter of American bison. And you had thousands of bison carcasses just left
to rot on the prairie. They're gone. They were gone within a decade or two. There was no remnant
of them there. In order for those carcasses to be preserved as fossils, they have to be removed
from oxygen. They have to be removed from scavengers. They have to typically be buried very rapidly,
very quickly, very quickly. Yes. So maybe we should look at some slides. Let's look at some
slides. What's crazy about this is like, you know, modern, you know, today we're so worried about
climate change. It's such a political discuss, it's such a political hot, you know, hot topic
people to discuss and fight about. And, you know, how much impact do humans have on climate change
when you're looking at it from the, looking at the forage for the trees? When you, when you bring
that up, it's, it's humans definitely have, we, there's no question we have an impact on the climate
and the environment through every, all kinds of things. It's not just the burning of fossil
fuels. It's deforestation, it's agriculture, it's mining. All of these things have an impact
on the environment. However, what you just said is important because within the larger framework,
the impact that we are having on the environment in that context actually is quite minimal.
That's the thing that most people don't understand because they've, they've taken, they're using,
like you just said, they're using the impact of humans on the climate is now a political issue
more than it is a scientific issue. And if you look at, you know, there's so many things that
I mean, we could devote hours and hours to this discussion and it needs to happen because,
you know, the typical response mainstream media and the, the purveyors of this, the, the so-called
climate crisis now that if you question that or challenge it, you are now consigned to the
category of climate change denier, you know, which of course I'm about as far as from a climate
change deniers you could get because I'm talking about catastrophic climate change all the time,
right? Now I do question the severity of human-caused climate change by releasing
very much really a small part of the carbon dioxide that is locked up in the crust of the
earth into the atmosphere. If we look at the long range, again, what's missing here is the big
picture, the long range view. And that's what I try to do is I take the long range view. The,
the period known as the quaternary, which is the Pleistocene and the Holocene, the Pleistocene goes
back to about two and a half million years ago, but which is only a very short period of time when
you'd say look at, go back to the pre-Cambrian times and actually the beginning of life on earth,
right? Within that period of time, the, the range of life on earth, which is the, includes the, the,
the Paleozoic, the Mesozoic and the Centozoic, right? Mesozoic was the age of the dinosaurs,
right? We all saw Jurassic Park, right? So Jurassic Park was the middle period of the Mesozoic,
preceded by the Triassic and followed by the, what did I say, Jurassic, followed by the Cretaceous,
right? And in fact, for, for people who are really into, most of the dinosaurs that were in
Jurassic Park were actually Cretaceous dinosaurs, by the way, but yeah, most of them were,
but I don't know, Cretaceous Park doesn't have the same ring as Jurassic Park. No, no. I have
some dinosaur slaying tools over there in the corner. I showed you earlier. I saw those. Yeah,
I've been a little concerned here since I saw those. What did you keep those in the corner for?
But then I realized, you know, you got Austin here. So yeah, yeah. Austin, Austin will protect us.
Yeah. Oh, I thought it was for protection from Austin. Oh, no, Austin, we don't have to worry
about that. We don't have to worry about them. Okay. Good. So we're, we're wise. Yeah. Okay. So
what I'm about to say was that if you look at, at the, the, the ambient concentration of carbon
dioxide in the global atmosphere, the lowest throughout the entire range of the so-called
phanerozoic, which is the great eon encompassing paleozoic, mesozoic, and senozoic, right?
The Pleistocene and Holocene has been the lowest carbon dioxide has been in the history of life
on earth. And this lowering of carbon dioxide coincides with the onset of this oscillating
cycle of glacial interglacial ages. Now, carbon dioxide has two primary functions within nature.
On one hand, it is a greenhouse gas that can capture long wave, long wave thermal radiation
emanating from the earth, right? It has been absorbed from shortwave solar radiation impinging
upon the earth, being absorbed and then being reemitted. Once it reaches saturation, it reemits.
So it's a greenhouse gas and an important one, right? It's also the fuel for photosynthesis.
Those, so it has a dual function within the natural order of things. Without carbon dioxide,
there's no photosynthesis, right? Now, carbon dioxide typically, once it gets below 200 parts
per million, it starts getting dangerously close to the point where photosynthesis will shut down.
Photosynthesis begins to shut down between 150 and 180 parts per million. During the last late
glacial maximum, carbon dioxide concentrations reached as low as 180 parts per million. Now,
no greenery, no greenery below that. I mean, the first plants that go are the so-called C3 plants,
which is basically just describing a photosynthetic pathway. Most of our food crops are those,
that category. Most of your weeds are C4, which means that they have been adapted to low carbon
environments, right? But most of the stuff we eat is adapted to a higher carbon dioxide
environment. This is why commercial greenhouse growers ramp up the carbon dioxide to like 11
or 1200 parts per million, which is three, three times or more the present day concentration
in the atmosphere. Present day is around 200? No, about 406. 406, okay. Right now, yeah. And
at the beginning of the industrial revolution, it was about 280. So throughout the 10,000 years of
the Holocene, it apparently rose about 100 parts per million. It has risen another 100,
what do I say, 120 parts per million, right? Yet, like I said, throughout most of Earth's history,
carbon dioxide has been thousands of parts per million, thousands of parts per million,
and life was abundant, proliferating, right? And the Earth did not turn into a runaway
hot house like has been predicted. So there's many nuances to this whole issue
about climate change. And a couple of points to be made when we start talking about
the increase in carbon dioxide. Number one, we can compare it like we look in the last 10 or
12,000 years, where our baseline is now the lowest that carbon dioxide has been in 600 million years.
Okay? So, and then as far as temperature change, you know, there was a medieval warm period
that was thoroughly recognized and admitted by the very first IPCC report that came out in 1992,
but the one that, the follow-up by 1996, they had managed to erase the medieval warm period.
Because the medieval warm period, even in the graphs shown in the IPCC's first report of 1992,
showed that the medieval warm period was warmer than the present, right? The modern warming.
Well, this didn't fit the narrative. So by the time the 1996 report came out,
the whole graph of climate change, temperature change from a thousand years ago to now was
basically flattened. So what they did was they got rid of the medieval warm period
and the little ice age. And so when the, instead of the graph doing this, they flattened it out,
and then they added, it's a complex thing, what they did, then they added
instrumental record on the end that looks like it's going way up, because it is not
accounted for the urban heat island effect, which is a whole nother question, but it was a
completely contrived graph called the hockey stick. And this is the thing that has been
utilized since the mid-90s now to incite this fear. Al Gore used it in,
what could they do? How could they get away with doing something like that?
They didn't get away. They were called out on it. But the point is, is that the people that
are calling them out on it are not getting the media coverage. Because look, at this point,
there's billions of dollars going into the whole climate change narrative. And so there's a huge
disincentive to go, wait a second, the climate right now is no warmer than it's been many times
throughout history. And I've written extensively on this, and I'm going to be publishing a lot of
this on my website, talking about the periods of climate warmth have been always times of human
prosperity as compared to reproduction as well, right? Oh, yeah. I mean, you have, because clearly
when it's warm out, you have an extended growing period. There's more food to eat. People get more
food to eat, they get healthier, they get stronger, they live longer. Your PP gets smaller when
it's cold. I've heard that. I haven't put it to the test yet. But I think it also happens when
you get older, but I'm not sure. Trust me, it's true. I jumped my pool the other day. It was freezing.
Was it? Yeah. Okay. Well, that's good to know. I'll keep that in mind. Stay out of cold pools.
I'll make hot tubs where it's at. Yeah. Yeah. On that trip that I was doing up in Washington
in October, we had Brandon Powell with us, who's a student of the Iceman. Oh, Wim Hof. Wim Hof,
yeah. Oh, shit. So he was, he was shaming everybody to get into the ice bath. Did you do it?
No, I didn't. The reason I didn't, there was a good reason I didn't actually, because I was
leading the tour. And each day, I had to figure out what we were going to be doing at 8am the
next morning. Looking at the maps, figuring out where we're going to go, looking at the weather.
I was consumed with all of that while he's, you know, leading people into the, uh,
but he, he shamed me into promising that the next trip I would do it. So I'm going to work
up to it. I'm going to start doing the cold showers. It's all in your head. The hard,
the hardest part is just making the jump. It's just run, you do it in like the ocean. I know.
Listen, I grew up in Minnesota, right? So I mean, the ice would melt off the lakes,
and we'd be jumping in the lakes. And, um, so yeah, I think that was pretty close to an ice bath.
That's about as close as you can get. Yeah. But yeah, I was, uh, that was a long time ago. I
don't know. Now I might just be shocked into, um, you'd have to probably drag me out and resuscitate
me. I don't know. But, um, where was I? Oh yeah. The whole question about the climate
change issue, um, is one that needs to be looked at, um, from all sides. And what you're going
to see is that, you know, what I think with the point I was making was that you did have the
little ice age, and it was very real. Uh, it's not an artifact. The li- during the little ice age,
it's now acknowledged it was probably the coldest few centuries since the end of the great ice age
with maybe a couple of exceptions. There was a, there was a cold spasm that took place around
8,200, 8,300 years ago, right? But other than that, uh, outlier, that anomaly, uh, the little ice age
was very cold. Most of the Holocene has been warmer than now, believe it or not. When was the
little ice age? Well, the f- it was in several phases. The first phase started around early
1300s, right? Now this came on the heels of 300 years of medieval warmth, right? Now it was during
this medieval warmth that the Vikings colonized the west coast of Greenland and had farming
for hundreds of years there where it's permafrost now, right? Um, it was also the era, the great era
of cathedral building in Europe. And when you go back to pre-1900 to 1000 AD, that was the so-called
dark ages, right? And the dark ages was a period of, of basically cold weather. Um, 536 AD is probably
the coldest year of the last 2000 years. And that was kind of like what sort of inaugurated the dark
ages. Not much happened during the dark ages. I mean, there was a lot, but you know, um, nothing
like you saw with the great cathedral building enterprise in Europe. Now with the warmth that
came around 1000 AD, you know, uh, so 530, let's go jump back again. 536 AD, you had this extremely
cold weather. May have been brought on by volcanoes, may have actually been brought on by a couple of
impacts. There's evidence possibly of some, uh, cosmic impacts around 536 AD. The whole story of the
Arthurian mythology and the quest for the grail is all set in that period from 536 to 540.
The battle of Camelon, the, the legendary battle work Arthur was killed is usually dated to 541 AD.
Now, what's interesting about this is you had, um, this period of, of cold and this cold caused
agricultural failures multiple years in a row. Agricultural failures led to famine. Famine led
to weakened music, uh, uh, weakened immune systems. And then, uh, I think it was in 542 AD,
you had the Justinian plague. So you have the cold weather, you have agricultural failure,
you have famine, and then you just followed by pestilence or plague. And that wiped out
a third the population of Europe or even more. And again, it was very much like what came at the
beginning of the Little Ice Age. Now, when the medieval warm period began, say between, it didn't
begin everywhere all at once at the same time, but you had a general warming of the plants between
900 AD and 1000 AD, um, Vikings and, and, and at the time you had a tremendous, uh, recession of the
polar ice that allowed the sea lanes between Iceland and Greenland to open up.
Uh, before this, you couldn't have made that journey because there was too much ice, right? The,
the ice receded, the Vikings were able to sail to Greenland. Iceland became, uh, became populated.
Um, you had em, immigrants to Iceland. And then, um, uh, the, uh, because of the abundant
food crops, people were eating a lot. And with about 100 years, 100 to 150 years, population
had increased that, uh, significantly throughout Europe and people were living longer and they
were wealthier and more productivity on every front was happening because people were being
healthy and well fed. Uh, infant mortality declined, lifespans, even, even human stature increased by
three, four, five inches during this period. This is the warmth. This is the medieval warm period,
right? Because of the surpluses that were created, you now had this possibility of armies of tens
of thousands of highly skilled artisans and craftspeople and glaciers and carpenters and stone
carvers and stuff able to build these tremendous gothic cathedrals. And I don't know if you've
been to Europe. Like Notre Dame, like Notre Dame. Yeah. You saw Notre Dame, right? That was built
during this peak. Wow. Amiens, chart, reams, Leon. There was about 80 of these gigantic
abbeys that were built during this time at about maybe 500 smaller ones, but it was this incredible,
prolific building period. What's interesting about that is simultaneous with that century and a half
of this epic building phenomena that was going on in Europe. You also had major building campaigns
going over on in Indochina and Southeast Asia that built the last phase of all of the great
temples in Cambodia and Laos and Vietnam that are so impressive. You also had simultaneous,
the wave of the last wave of classic Mayan architecture that's now emerging, you know,
in Central America. You had the last wave of monumental earthwork architecture in North America.
All of this stuff is going on like the same century, century and a half, and it was during this
period of global warmth. Okay. Now what happens? You get to the 1300s and things begin to shift,
right? The climate starts cooling and around 1314, 1315, I think it was right in there,
you had some couple of really cold years and it and you can look and you can see that the onset
of the cold and the end of the great cathedral building era almost perfectly coincide.
Now you had a succession of cold years between like 1315 and 1340. During that time you see a total,
a decline in European prosperity. You see the end of the great Gothic building enterprise, right?
And then around 1340, I think it was, you had the bubonic plague because you'd had the succession
of agricultural failures. The bubonic plague came along and wiped out at least a third, the entire
population of Europe. Now that was truly a pandemic. Yeah. I mean, a third or more, there were
places where whole towns pretty much nobody survived and literally, yeah, thousands upon
thousands of corpses just left on the landscape laying there because there weren't people to
bury them. Right. The dead outnumbered the living and that was the also called the black plague,
right? Right. So this is what launched the little ice age. Then that was the first phase and then we
see that there was a period of remediation in the little ice age that pretty much coincided
with the Renaissance. And then you had phase two. Luckily, we had enough momentum going that phase
two wasn't as severe as phase one, even though the planet got very cold during this phase two,
particularly as when you had this episode where in Europe, in the mountainous regions, you had the
glaciers swelling to this enormous size and you had entire villages and farms that were obliterated
by the growing glaciers. Whole whole towns that had to be abandoned because the glaciers are growing
down over taking over. Yeah. So what's interesting is is when you look at this period of global
cooling, it begins to end around the mid 1800s, right? And has been warming gently and steadily
ever since, except you go to the last 20 to 25 years and you see it's almost leveled off.
And we're, but there's a lot of statistics out there that suggest, oh, the planet is,
you know, and we're in a climate crisis and it's continuing to warm catastrophically.
But there are studies and, you know, I can come back and we could dive into just
nothing but this this conversation about climate change.
Recently, a study has come out that, you know, when you look at temperature data,
one of the things that you're looking at is, you know, we have ground based temperature
stations. We have, we have weather balloons and we have satellites. Those are the three primary
sources of knowledge of information we have. The ground based ones are also very old, right?
And they're like near airport or at airports. You got it. See, so you start a ground based
data collection station there and it's in a rural area, particularly like in a rural airport,
let's say 50, 60, 70 years ago, right? Well, then what happens is that it becomes urbanized.
And so, you know, if you've got a temperature station sitting, you know, in a field,
well, then you come at 20, 30, 40 years later and it's surrounded by buildings and pavement
and air conditioning concrete everywhere. Right, right. That's the urban E. Thailand effect.
And generally a lot of the modern temperature data doesn't really effectively account for that.
And they also just don't include the role of the sun. And we know a whole lot more about
the sun now than we did in 1988 when James Hansen did his presentation one hot July day
before Congress when this whole ball started rolling on, you know, catastrophic greenhouse
warming. But one thing that should be mentioned is that the ability of carbon dioxide to capture
long wave radiation in the wavelengths of roughly 14 to 17 microns right in that window
is pretty much saturated. In other words, you can keep adding carbon dioxide to the atmosphere
and it's going to have a exponentially declining effect on long wave thermal radiation capture,
which means that and typically if you look, you know, experiments going back decades and decades
show that most of the heat capture of carbon dioxide is in the first 50 parts per million.
And when you add 50 parts per million, when you've already got 400 parts per million,
the heat capture of it is minimal. Now the computer modelers know this, so they have to
introduce all kinds of positive feedbacks into the models in order to ramp up the effect of the
carbon dioxide because they know that the carbon dioxide by itself is not going to have a huge
effect on global temperature. So there's so much like this, Danny, that's just not out there in the
mainstream discussion. And it's sad that this is the case, but you know, again, like we were
talking about, the science has been subordinated to the politics. Yeah, it really has. And there's
too much incentive to suppress these types of conversations. There's too much money on the
line. There's too much, you know, political agenda, too many political agendas on the line.
Yes. And there needs to be more debates between people like you and the critics, the skeptics,
or the people who are projecting this narrative in the mainstream and, you know, coming to light
on the internet or wherever. Well, you may have noticed that there is a very noticeable reluctance
on the part of the proponents to debate these issues. Because it's hard, nobody knows anything
about this. The people that are talking about it, they don't really know. How much time have they
actually spent studying climate change? Right, right. Now, I'm not a climate change scientist.
I'm just somebody that's been obsessed and fascinated with things like that, literally since I was a
kid, you know, I remember sitting on the roof of my house watching two tornadoes go by, which was
crazy. But, you know, so, you know, from the age of probably 13, 14, 15, I was really, really
fascinated by weather and it evolved into, you know, climate. I mean, my interest in natural
history, I guess you could say, goes back to the early 70s, you know, so growing up in an
environment like rural Minnesota, right where we lived, we had land on a lake that was a left over
meltwater puddle from the ice. And the ice right where we were was at the margin of the so-called
superior lobe of the Laurentide ice sheet. And right where we lived was a place where the ice
would expand and contract and expand and contract before it finally disappeared. And so it shaped
the entire landscape of the, you know, the environment of when I was a kid growing up.
And I always had this kind of undefinable fascination with the land because it always seemed
to me, even as a little kid, that there was something about it. You know, a hill is not just
a hill. It's something else. It's maybe, it might be a, it might be a drumland. It might be a terminal
mooring, you know. Now it's just a hill with soil and trees growing on it. There's a reason why it's
there. But there's a reason why it's there, you know. And most people just look at the land around
them and it just is. There's nothing you don't question. You don't think about it anymore.
But when you do, then you discovered that there's this underlying story there,
you know. Right. And why don't we jump to a couple of slides before we looking at right here.
Okay. So this is, this is a Greenland ice core study, which shows the extreme climate changes
at the end of the Pleistocene-Holocene transition. And you see that dashed line, let's see, I should
have brought, let's see, I don't have my, you don't have a laser pointer.
It's okay. Yeah. No, I can see the horizontal dashed line. And it says present temperature
does, does Austin, do you have a cursor? Austin, you have a cursor, right? There you go. Yeah, he does.
Okay. Just follow where we're talking. Up there. Yeah. See that horizontal dashed line?
That is the present temperature. Now, look, now, okay, so the present is all the way to the right
of that graph, all the way down there. That's the present, right? Now, if you come over,
you see that, that graph there, look, again, the dashed line is the present temperature.
Now, if you look at the bottom, you see it says YD, that's for younger dryness. And then you see a
scale of time at the bottom, zero over on the right, and you see 10,000. And then you see what is it
there, 12,800 being the time of the younger dryness boundary. And you see that there's that gray band,
light gray band that goes up there. And that was the younger dryness boundary. And you see, look
what the graph is doing there. Look at how it peaks. This enormous peak there that actually
dates to about 14,600. And then the climate just plunges down by about that's about 10 degrees
center. See, we can look over on that on the vertical graph. And you see colder temperature,
warmer temperature. And what you see there is that it's very peak. About like 18 degrees. Yes. Yes.
Doesn't seem like a lot. It doesn't seem like a lot. 18 degrees. Well, let me put it to you this
way. Now that's average temperature. Okay, right. Now, since the beginning, this whole the whole
climate crisis and global warming, right, the estimated amount of climate of global warming
is about 1.2 1.3 degrees. Oh, wow. So this is this is like 10 times the warming we've seen post
industrial, right here. Wow. And I constantly hear people say the planets never warmed this
fast and this much before. And I'm saying, where are you getting your info from there, my friend?
But you can see there was this rapid decline in climate change into the younger dryness negative.
It was roughly what negative 40 degrees. For it's got negative five negative 50. So that's five to use
about let's say, yeah, almost negative 50. So it this is centigrade now, not Fahrenheit. Okay,
so it you'll see at the top of the graph, it's right at minus 30 at the bottom, it's almost minus
50. So that's, you know, 18 degrees centigrade. So we multiply that by 1.8. And we're looking at
like 30 degrees Fahrenheit. Whoa. That's that's a that's a climb. That is a true climate crisis
right there. Now, again, and then look at their at the wave. I remember I said there was a there
was an event at about 8200 years where there was a short lived cooling event. You see that right
there it is right there. Yep. Okay, but other than that, this last 10,000 years is almost all of it
has been warmer than now, at least in Greenland. So the way you get around this, as you say, well,
this was only in Greenland, right? But you don't have this. Okay, so this is a study coming from
ice. Yes, this is an ice core in Greenland, right? However,
since these cores were extracted and first analyzed in the early 90s,
we've got evidence from all over the world now showing that correlates with this correlates with
this. Okay. How deep were these ice cores? Oh, let's see, I think the Greenland ice core was
about 1500 meters when it hit bedrock. So 1500 meters would be about a mile, about a mile. Holy
shit. I think it was actually even more than that. But yeah, so these these are long mile of ice.
Yeah. And that's that's over Greenland at present. See, because presently, it's a mile deep. Yes. Yes.
So look, you can see up there, see the medieval warm period. Now look at the medieval warm period
and then look at the present global warming, which is right where that graph hits the vertical axis.
You see right there. And I said that the medieval warm period was warmer. All of the evidence suggests
that the medieval warm period around the world was warmer than now. And yet it was not a time of
climate crisis. It was a time of human prosperity. But that doesn't fit the narrative, Danny.
We're about right on par with the little ice age. Yeah, we're a little actually a little warmer than
see this is going to be a little bit biased because it's in Greenland. Okay, you have to if you have
to go to the like European if you go to the more southern, you know, farther south in the
latitudes, what you'll see is that relatively speaking, yes, the little ice age was colder than
now for sure, a couple of degrees colder. Okay. Okay. And then you see warming at the end of the
younger dry ice. And that was a spasm of warming. Now, check out that huge spike over to the left.
That's like within how long is that spike? That's a massive spike on the on the right on the very
end of the run younger dry. That one. Yeah, probably a few years vertical. Yeah. And that is about 11,600.
Now, you have what you had there was two gigantic pulses of meltwater into the global oceans,
which caused what John Shaw and his colleagues referred to CREs catastrophic rise events.
And I believe that these events, these warming events are associated with the gigantic floods at
the end of the ice age, because it was these warming events that melted the ice. If we go to
the next slide, you'll see that the next slide is a late Pleistocene mortality graph. Now,
in these events that terminated the ice age, roughly half the great megafaunal species on earth
died out very rapidly. And what we have here is you look at this graph from left to right on the
far left, it's 50,000 years ago. And then it ends at 4000 years ago over on the right. Yep.
But now if you look at each one of those squares represents a fossil specimen.
So for tens of thousands of years from 50,000 years ago to about 14,000 years ago, you'll see that
it's generally fairly sporadic and you get to 14,000. And it really peaks around 12,000 years.
So all of a sudden around 12,000 to 13,000 years ago, a huge number
of fossil remains were introduced into the environment. And so what and then at the end
of this, these species extinct are extinct, they don't let they don't exist anymore. So these are,
like it says here, each square represents a fossil specimen of an extinct megafaunal species.
Mastodons, mammoths, giant ground sloths, dire wolves, Pleistocene lions, saber-tooth cats,
giant elk, giant beaver, yeah, giant armadillos, everything was giant by the way.
Wow. Why were they so big? That's a good question. They were big. Wow. Huge. You know,
the Colombian mammoth, mammothus imperator, the imperial mammoth, said 16 feet high at his shoulder.
That's twice the height of an average African elephant, which is about eight feet, nine feet at
the shoulder. That's bizarre. Yeah. I mean, they brought the remains, the skeleton of an
imperial mammoth into the Fernbank Museum where I lived like about 10 years ago and
they literally had to remove the ceiling to set the skeleton up because it was so big.
I think of like the big imperial walkers in Star Wars. Yeah. Yeah. So this shows a precise
correlation between the mass extinction episode and the graph we just looked at.
So were that graph spikes, that layer of ice had tons of dead animals? Yes. Yes. And if you go back
one, go back one, Austin, that spike, I would actually do a slide. No, no, not forward, Austin,
back there. If you go, that spike, if we were to flip this graph over, that spike would coincide
with that younger driest drop right there. Okay. It's a very convincing correlation. Wow.
And then now you can move, Austin, go forward two slides. Next one right there. Okay. So now this
is the graph of sea level rise at the end of the last ice age. Now, bear in mind,
if you're going to add six million, seven million cubic miles of ice
to the surface of the earth, where's the water come from that forms those glaciers from the oceans,
right? Well, if you take that much water out of the global ocean, you have to sea levels going to
lower. Right. So during the late glacial maximum, sea levels were at least 400 feet lower than they
are now. When in the old models, and sea level would have been a gradual rise that would have
correlated directly as the glaciers shrank, sea level would rise. And then once all the glaciers
had disappeared, sea level would have reached more or less to its present level, right? But if you
look at this graph, this is graph of the sea level rise. And if you look at the bottom of the graph,
you'll see that age in 1000 years, zero on the left, and 18,000 years ago on the right.
Right at the bottom. That's right. Good, good, Austin. Okay. If you go up the left,
you've got the estimated discharge rate in cubic kilometers per year. Now, if you look at that
highest spike, it's almost up to 15,000 cubic kilometers of water introduced into the ocean per
year. Now, this is an older graph. And what has changed is that the rates of introduction of melt
water have actually are faster than what you see in this graph. But what this graph does is it shows
you that there were two huge spikes of melt water into the global ocean. You have the first
one on the right, the taller of the two is called Meltwater Pulse 1A. That was the first. And then
notice how how many years ago that was right now the dating of that is around 14,000 years ago.
Okay. Okay, then you see that that's followed by a rapid decline in the volume of water
flowing into the oceans, which is going to be a direct function of how rapid the ice is melting.
Now, that trough there is followed by a second spike and that trough of reduced flow to the ocean
exactly coincides with the Younger Dryas. So in other words, when the world went cold again
during the Younger Dryas, the water, the melt water flowing from the glaciers into the oceans
declined if it didn't stop altogether. And then about 1300 years later, boom, it started up again.
And that gave us Meltwater Pulse 1B. So these three graphs are really interesting to correlate
because what you see is that first big warming spike that we looked at in the first graph
coincides the Meltwater Pulse 1A. Then the Younger Dryas of the planet jerking back into
full glacial cold corresponds with the trough where the meltwater stopped. And then the second
warming coincides with the lower spike, which is Meltwater Pulse 1B. And right in the middle where
that trough is, hey, between those two spikes is when all the megafauna disappeared.
So there is that where the instantaneous freezing occurred.
Good question. You know, that's a tough one. The dates are ambiguous there.
Dates are ambiguous.
So the spikes coincide with massive flooding?
Yes.
Catastrophic floods?
It would have to because one would think, okay, if you've got 15,000 cubic kilometers of water
being dumped into an ocean in one year, or maybe even quicker, that means a whole lot of ice is
melting really fast. That ice melting has to create giant floods.
Right.
The pieces pretty much all fall into place.
Wow.
So, yeah.
That's fascinating.
Isn't it though?
Really is.
So let's see. Let me see. We should jump ahead. Okay, let's do this. Jump ahead to slide number.
Let's see.
Whoops. I meant to escape, not end. If you start clicking forward, you'll get to a picture of a
flower. There you go.
Is that the flower the mammoth we're eating?
No. That is dryus octopetala.
And let me bring this. I accidentally, I accidentally closed. I didn't mean to do that.
Age of Leo. Here we go. Okay. I'll just reopen it.
17,000 year Glacic Eustatic sea level record.
Influence of global, of glacial melting rates on the younger dryus event and deep ocean circulation.
Yeah. Okay. So Eustatic is the rise and fall of sea level. Okay.
That's a function of growth and shrinkage of ice sheets.
Okay.
So there's a direct correlation.
Right. Okay.
Ice sheets grow, sea level drops, ice sheets shrink, sea level rises. That's called Eustatic.
Okay.
And it's generally thought of as being more or less uniform around the planet,
because all the oceans are interconnected, right? So if you look over here, the flower on the right
count the petals. Should have eight petals. Yep. Octopetala literally means eight petals.
And dryus octopetala is like it says, it's an eight petal to polar wildflower that grows
in really cold climates. And when the climate warms, that particular flower disappears,
because it likes cold weather. And so anyways, the younger dryus is a period where
after disappearing from Northern Europe during the ice age, dryus octopetala suddenly came back
again for 1300 years. And then of course, it was an older dryus. You know, that's why you have
a younger dry. If you didn't have an older dryus, it wouldn't be a younger dryus. It would just
be the dryus, right? Right. And that's dryus, not dry ass. Okay. Okay. When was the older dryus?
I think it was like around 15. I think, let me see. Let's, I think if I go back, I think I even
have it on a, on a graph here. Yeah, go back to slide number eight.
You'll see that you've got an oldest dryus, an older dryus, and then a younger dryus.
Okay, I see it now. Yeah. And the oldest dryus and the older dryus, they were not as cold as
the younger dryus. And notice the younger dryus ends at 11,500 years ago. Right? Right. Now,
as that graph moves up, that's warming. See temperature in degrees centigrade over on the
left. So you can see that the climate dropped in temperature very, very cold. And then it rose
again. And this graph, it's dated at about 11,500 years ago. And there was a warming, a massive
warming, that massive warming would have been associated with huge floods from melting ice
and a rapid rise in sea level. Now, 11,500, interestingly and coincidentally, going back
to the thing we mentioned earlier, geomethology, in Plato's accounts of Atlantis, his two dialogues,
Timaeus and Cretias, where he talks about Atlantis, he, he dates it is 9,000 years prior to Solon's
exile in Egypt, which took place roughly at 600 500 to 600 BC. Okay. So that puts it at say 25 to
2600 years ago, add that to 9,000 years. And what do you get 11,500 for the destruction of Atlantis
by a great earthquake that caused it to sink beneath the Atlantic Ocean? Coincidence?
Wow. Yeah. No, I think that Plato was, see, this is where, you know, modern academia just
dismisses the whole Atlantis account. Right, right. You think of Atlantis, you think of some
fictional woo woo tale. Yeah, it's only in books. Right. But if you go back to the source, I mean,
the source is Plato, the greatest metaphysition of, you know, right, but the big question civilization,
the big question is, was it a moral tale or was it a physical place? Was it a real city?
I think it could be both. Why, why would not an ancient commentator utilize an actual historic
event? Right. Upon which to graft a moral teaching. Doesn't Plato recount in his writings that it
doesn't he say more than once that it was an actual real place? Oh, yeah, multiple times.
Yeah, he, he affirms the veracity of the account says this, this may have the appearance of myth,
but it's real. It really happened. He says that. Yeah. So, um,
So, which brings us to the recent video of the guy who was just on Joe Rogan's podcast who talks
Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy. What's the name of his channel again? Bright Insight, Bright Insight.
Yeah. So he had a conversation with Joe Rogan about the eye of Africa. Right. Being the location
of Atlantis. Can you, do you have that little video clip that I showed you earlier, Austin,
where he talks about, he shows the map, Plato's map of Atlantis and where it could be and why
he lays out all of his reasoning on why that could be the location. I didn't know Plato had a map,
so I'm not, I could be wrong. Maybe it wasn't Plato's map. This is somebody's map. Let's watch
this quick clip real quick. Okay. Let me, they described an empire named Atlantis, which consisted
of 10 kingdoms and the capital of Atlantis was on an island that consisted of three rings of water
and two of land, which of course, when we look at the Richard structure, you see that it would
precisely match that specific detail of three rings of water and two of land. And not only that,
it was said to open to the sea at the south, which is exactly what you see here at the wrist shot. In
fact, you can literally see the striations in the sand where water once flowed through it. But not
only that, those white blemishes are indeed salt and unbelievably significant detail, which I'll
discuss more of in a moment. But Atlantis was also said to have mountains to the north,
mountains that were said to have rivers run through them, which yes, there are mountains with
evidence of ancient water flow north of the wrist shot. Atlantis was also said to be surrounded by
a large plane, which also exists for hundreds of miles on both sides of the wrist shot structure.
Another striking similarity is that Atlantis was said to consist of black, red, and white
colored stone, which is incredibly interesting when you see all the stones of that color in
and around the region of the wrist shot. There was also said to be an abundance of elephants,
and elephants live in Mauritania today and have for thousands of years. In fact,
there's an even ancient cave art depicting elephants not far from the wrist shot. And
Atlantis was also said to have an abundance of exotic fruit and vegetables, which makes the
case for it being in North Africa even more compelling, considering that we now know that the
Sahara Desert didn't even exist until somewhere around 11,600 years ago, where it went from green
to desert in practically an instant. But many people are not aware of this incredible fact that
the Sahara had previously been a lush green tropical paradise at the same time that Atlantis was said
to exist. In fact, it was said to be made up of the largest freshwater lakes and rivers ever known
to exist anywhere on earth, which of course would support that the region of the western Sahara
would have naturally growing fruits and vegetables, but alleged vegetation that no longer exists in
this region aside, Atlantis was said to have an abundance of metals, including iron, copper,
and gold. Well, it turns out that Mauritania's most common exports today include iron, copper,
and gold. But the similarities do not end here. You see, Atlantis was said to be created by the
god Poseidon. And Poseidon had 10 children that came from five sets of male twins. And each of
these 10 children would individually be ruler of the 10 kingdoms that made up the empire of Atlantis.
And the firstborn would rule the capital, and his name was Atlas. So does anyone want to guess who
the name of the first king of Mauritania was? King Atlas, who ruled over the Moray people,
which is why the land is called Mauritania today. And not only that, the vast mountain
region located north of the Rishat just so happens to be named the Atlas Mountains.
What a coincidence. Now, another incredible detail involves this map. This is the map I was referring
to.
Just so happens to be the same general location of the Rishat structure. What are the odds?
All right, you can stop it there, Austin. Okay, so he lays out a very compelling,
he sells it. He sells it. Yeah. And generally, you know, I like his stuff. He does a great job.
We would disagree on this.
Let's go. Well, listen, I have done an entire treatment of episode nine of Cosmographia.
Right, which was very compelling. And that follows upon, what, six or seven episodes,
about 10 to 12 hours. Right. Going into the Atlantis account of Plato, the background,
you know, all the stuff he's talking about there. And it's good stuff, man. Yeah.
But I have some issues with it. And I get into that.
Why I believe it's not there. And you'll need to watch that, Danny. And then we can talk about
that. We could do an Atlantis episode when I come back. Okay. After you've had a chance to watch.
Well, I've listened. I've listened to a to a bit of it. Okay. And there's a lot to unpack.
Yes. In that. There is. So, so could you sort of like briefly give an overview of
your thoughts or your, your studies on Atlantis? Well, very briefly. You know, I've read four or
five different translations of Plato. And I've actually procured the original Greeks. I've been
able to go in and laboriously translate the various words used. And I mean, it's clear.
You know, right at the outset, you know, this power came forth from the Atlantic Ocean outside
the Pillars of Heracles. Pillars of Heracles is what we call the rock that the Straits of Gibraltar.
Mm hmm. It describes that when you pass from the Straits of Gibraltar into the Atlantic Ocean,
you were you encounter some islands. And then you encounter would have encountered Atlantis.
And then beyond that was the the Great Continent. So in other words, when you look at the geography,
and there is like the Spartale Bank, there's a sunken island right there at the mouth,
that would have actually been an island that sailors could have stopped at.
And then there's Madeira, possibly even other islands.
That's my problem is that that Plato very clearly, to me, puts it in the Atlantic Ocean.
And also very clearly describes that it sank within the ocean. So what I have done is shown
throughout hours of video that there is solid evidence for postglacial subsidence
of particularly along the mid Atlantic Ridge. So all the things that Jimmy is describing there,
I could show essentially the same same configuration to the sunken Azores Plateau, as it's called.
Okay, open to the south, mountains to the north. And that's what I do in this series that I did,
because I was not really familiar with the theory that the Eye of Africa was considered to be
Atlantis. When I did those, I may have heard it, I had heard of it, but hadn't looked into it.
So then so many people were asking about it that I did a follow up specifically focusing on
the Reshat structure. And I basically go into the study. See, I accumulated the number of studies
on it in the probably the early 90s, when it was still being considered an impact crater.
And so when I was thoroughly reaching researching impact craters, that's when I first learned
about it. And it looked to me like a multi-ringed impact structure, just like we were talking about
earlier, right? Well, it later, you know, ground penetrating radar and analysis of the rocks and
stuff show that it was a deep rooted volcanic feature. So it's natural, it is not, it is not
human made, it's natural. And I think all the geologists that have looked at that would concur
that it's natural. So the fact that it's what 1400 feet above sea level to me is problematic,
because the whole thing about Atlantis is that it sank beneath the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.
So yes, there's some amazing coincidences there, as Jamie points out. But again, I'm going to come
down on the side of if there's any, if there's any reality to this thing, right? My reading is,
and see people go, Oh, Randall says Atlantis was the Azores. No, Randall doesn't say that.
What Randall does say, that if you look at the 15 or 20 different locations around the world that
have been proffered as being, Oh, this is Atlantis or this is Atlantis. I think the one that fits the
details of Plato's accounts, almost to a T is really the Azores. And the Azores are, the Azores
are mountain peaks, right? And those mountain peaks have their roots on a, it's called a microcontinent.
It's about the size of Iceland, but it's sunk. And how do we know it's sunk? Well,
there's numerous studies that I get into all of that in that 10 hours or 12 hours that I've done
to make the case that if there is a reality to Atlantis, and we look at all of the candidates
for where Atlantis was, I think the one that comes down over and over again as being the most
plausible would be the Azores. And so, but yeah, in a few minutes here that we're discussing it here,
it would be, you know, again, like I said, I did 10 or 12 hours. Right. Is there any,
is there any sort of graph or any sort of like aerial image we could just look at
the area of the Azores that you're referring to? Yeah, I would have to open it. Okay. Can we do
that? Or do you, do we have that? I did not give that to Boston. Oh, I haven't here. Okay. Okay.
So we're looking at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge here. Yes, we are. And if you look over,
oh, I'm wanting to sit here with my... Oh, you think you're controlling it? Yeah.
Okay. So you see Spain over there in North Africa? Okay. Come down over to the land,
up north, and then east, right in there between Spain and Morocco is the Straits of Gibraltar,
also known as in ancient times as the Pillars of Heracles. So that is where, let me see,
I'm going to put my glasses back on.
Got a clusterfuck over here. Yeah. Okay. So now if you go, if you put your, you'll see two little
green spots, yeah, right where your cursor is. Now start slowly moving to the west. Right there,
you see remnants of former islands. Keep going. And there's your microcontinent, the Azores plateau
right there. And then if you keep going, then you get to, of course, North America. And let's see
here if I can go back to Plato's. So this is quoting directly now from Plato, from Timaeus.
Then listen Socrates to a strange tale, which is, however, certainly true. This is the Benjamin
Jawa translation. Are you on a specific slide here? I'm on slide 43. But I would narrate it if you,
you could keep looking at this slide. Okay. As Solon, who was the wisest of the seven sages
declared, he was a relative and great friend of my grandfather, Dropides, as he himself says,
or maybe Dropidas, as he himself says in many of his poems. And Dropides told Cretius, my grandfather
who remembered and told us. So he was giving us the lineage that goes back to the original tale.
So let's see, we'll jump on ahead. Yes. So then jumping on ahead, we've got the forum near and
Socrates is there and Timaeus is there and Cretius is there and several others. Socrates says,
very good, he's speaking to Cretius, very good. And what is this ancient famous action of which
Cretius spoke not as mere legend, but as a veritable action, again, veritable, meaning true,
which Solon recounted. So again, another reference to that, this tale that Solon brought out of Egypt
is a true tale. And Cretius says, I will tell an old world story, which I heard from an aged man.
For Cretius was, as I said at that time, nearly 90 years of age. And so he goes into them because
of time, I'm going to skip over some of this. And let's see. Yes, again, tell us the whole story
and how and from whom Solon heard this veritable tradition again, that it's true. So then, let's
see here. So so Solon now is asking the priests, the elderly Egyptian priests. I'll just read this.
This is again from the the the Java translation. Thither came Solon who was received by them,
the Egyptian priests, with great honor. And he asked the priests who were most skillful in such
matters about antiquity, and made the discovery that neither he nor any other Helene or Greek
knew anything worth mentioning about the times of old. On one occasion, when he, Solon, was drawing
them on to speak of antiquity, he began to tell about the most ancient things in our part of the
world about Fronius, who is called the first, and about Nairobi. Now, Nairobi was the queen of Thebes,
the daughter of Tantalus. And after the deluge, after the deluge, to tell of the lives of Dukalian
and Pira, or Pira, and he traced the genealogy of their descendants and attempted to reckon
how many years old were the events of which he was speaking and to give dates. So then we get into
the dating of these things. He says, there upon one of the priests, who was of a very great age,
said, oh Solon, Solon, new Helenes are but children, and there is never an old man who is a Helene.
Solon, hearing this, said, what do you mean? I mean to say, replied the old priest, that in
mind, you are all young. There is no old opinion handed down among you by ancient tradition,
nor any science which is hoary with age. Now, that's interesting. He makes a reference to a science
which is hoary, meaning very old and venerable, right? And I will tell you the reason for this.
There have been, and this is, this is really, I think, some of one of the most important lines
that has come out of the Western metaphysical tradition. There have been and will be again
many destructions of mankind arising out of many causes, but the greatest have been brought about
by the agencies of fire and water and other lesser ones by innumerable other causes.
Then he goes on to say, this is the preface. Now, this is the preface to the story of Atlantis,
which I find extremely significant. There is a story, now this is still the old priest talking
to Solon. He says, there is a story which even you, new Helenes that are like children who don't
know anything about the past like we do, right? There's a story which even you have preserved
that once upon a time, Peyton, the son of Helios, having yoked the steeds in his father's chariot,
but because he was not able to drive them in the path of his father, burned up all that was upon
the earth and was himself destroyed by a thunderbolt. Now, if you're familiar with the myth of Peyton
at all, Peyton was the son of Helios, but didn't know it. Okay. Okay. So he's there going to his
school and all of the boys are bragging about how great their fathers are, but Peyton didn't know
who his father was. So he goes to his mother and he says, I want to know about my father. And she
says, well, I guess you're old enough. I'm going to reveal it to you now. He is nothing, nobody
less than the sun god himself. And so Peyton decides that he wants to make this journey
to the, to the, you know, to where his father, the sun god resides and meet his father. So he goes
there, eventually finds the place and in the heavens, right? And then he, his father is so glad to see
him. He says, I will grant you any boon or any promise that you want. Now, the thing about the
gods, the Greek gods is that they have tremendous capacities and powers that mere mortals don't
have, but they also have certain restrictions on them. Like for one thing, if they make a promise,
they're bound to it, absolutely bound to it, right? So Helio says that he would gladly give
Peyton the, his whatever boon he wants. So then Peyton says, well, I want to drive your chariot.
And then Peyton basically, I mean, Helio says, well, how about anything but not that, not that kind
of chariot did he have? Well, it was a chariot pulled by these great powerful steeds. Okay.
So this is actually an extract now from both edges mythology extracts from the fall of Peyton.
And this is Helios now speaking. He says, suppose I should lend you the chariot, what would you do?
Could you keep your course while the sphere was revolving under you? Notice the use of the
word sphere revolving, right? This is written what 2400 years ago. Right. Perhaps you think that
there are forests and cities, the abodes of the gods and palaces and temples on the way.
On the contrary, the road is through the midst of frightful monsters. You pass by the horns of the
bull, right? Taurus, Taurus in front of the archer, Sagittarius and near the lion's jaws.
And where the scorpion stretches its arms in one direction and the crab and then another.
So he's describing the plane of the ecliptic, right, which is also the region of short period
comets. Okay. Nor will you find it easy to guide these those horses with their breasts full of fire
that they breathe forth from their mouths and nostrils when hapless. And then so he finally,
he gets the chariot, right? The gates open, the steeds run out, pulling the chariot and immediately
realize that the hand on the reins is weak and not powerful and commanding like Helios. So then
they immediately take off. And so they're running, you know, Helter Skelter through the plane of the
ecliptic. And then it goes on when hapless fate and look down upon the earth now spreading in
vast extent beneath him, he grew pale and his knees shook with terror. In spite of the glare
all around him, the sight of his eyes grew dim. He wished he had never touched his father's horses,
never learned his parentage, never prevailed in his request. He is born along like a vessel that
flies before a tempest when the pilot can do no more and betakes himself to prayers. He turns
his eyes from one direction to the other now to the goal once he began his course, now to the realms
of sunset, which he is not destined to reach. He sees with terror the monstrous form scattered
over the surface of the heaven. Here the scorpion extended his two great arms with his tail and
crooked claws, stretching over two signs of the zodiac. When the boy beheld him reeking with
poison and menacing with his fangs, his courage failed and the reins fell from his hand. The
horses, when they felt them loose on their backs, dashed headlonged and unrestrained, went off into
unknown regions of the sky, in among the stars, hurling the chariot over pathless places, now up
in high heaven, now down almost to earth. The moon saw with astonishment her brother's chariot
running beneath her own. So it's passing within the orbit of the moon. It's what it's telling us.
Wow. Yeah, yeah. The clouds began to smoke. The mountaintops take fire. The fields are parched
with heat. The plants wither. The trees with their leafy branches burn. The harvest is ablaze.
But these are small things. Great cities perished with their walls and towers. Whole nations with
their people were consumed to ashes. The forest-clad mountains burned with fires within and without
and parnassus with his two peaks and roe dope forced at last to part with his snowy crown.
Her cold climate was no protection to skithia. Caucuses burned. Ossa impendous and greater than
both Olympus, the Alps high in air. Then Peyton beheld the world on fire and felt the heat intolerable.
The air he breathed was like the fire, the air of a furnace and full of burning ashes.
And the smoke was of a pitchy darkness. He dashed forward. He knew now whether
the Libyan desert was dried up to the condition in which it remains to this day.
The nymphs of the fountains with disheveled hair mourned their waters. Nor were the rivers
safe beneath their banks. The earth cracked open and through the chinks light broke into
Tartarus and frightened the king of shadows and his queen. The sea shrank up. Where before was
water it became dry plain and the mountains that lie beneath the waves lifted up their heads
and became islands. The fishes sought the lowest depths and the dolphins no longer ventured as
to sport on the surface. So it goes on. Wow. Describing this great catastrophe. So now
what's interesting about this? That is that is a fucking
fantastical tale. Isn't that? It is amazing. Yeah, that's why I bring it up.
Yeah. So Atlas himself faints and scarce holds up his burden. If sea, earth, and heaven perish,
we fall into chaos, ancient chaos. Save what remains to us from the devouring flame. Oh,
take thought for our deliverance in this awful moment. And so what happens? Thus spoke the earth,
overcome with heat and thirst, could say no more than Jupiter omnipotent, calling to witness all
the gods, including him who had lent the chariot and showing them that all was lost and some and
less some speedy remedy were applied, mounted the lofty tower from whence he diffuses clouds over
the earth and hurls the forked lightning. But at that time, not a cloud was to be found to
interpose for a screen to earth, nor was a shower remaining unexhausted. He thundered. Now this is
Zeus and brandishing a lightning bolt in his right hand, launched it against the charioteer,
and struck him at that moment from his seat and from existence fate. And here's an important
clue right in the myth, fate and with his hair on fire fell had long like a shooting star,
which marks the heavens with its brightness as it falls. And Eridonus, the great river,
received him and cooled his burning frame. The Italian niads or nearads reared a tomb for him,
and his sisters, the heliades, as they lamented his fate, were turned into poplar trees. And on the
banks of the river and their tears, which continued to flow, became amber as it dropped into the
stream. And also, by the way, in according to some of the myths, it was their tears that then
caused the great flood. So we have this account. Now, why did I go through all of this? Well,
the reason is, is because if we go back to Plato, what does Plato say? Remember, he says,
he says, he says, yes, about the many destructions of man. And he says, so this is now this is this
is the preface to the tale of Atlantis. There is a story which even you have preserved that once upon
a time, Peyton, the son of Helios, having yoked the seeds in his father's chariot,
but because he was not able to drive them in the path of his father, burned up all that was upon
the earth and was himself destroyed as a thunderbolt. Now listen to what Plato says. Or this is the
Egyptian priests speaking here through Plato. Now this has the form of a myth, but it really
signifies a declination, a declining of the bodies moving around the earth and in the heavens,
and a great conflagration of all things upon the earth, recurring at long intervals of time.
So right there he say, this is how Plato actually begins the, the account of Atlantis is by
referring to this myth of the earth having this encounter with what is undoubtedly a celestial
object. Right, right. And it sounds like the sun, you know, something to do with it, like you said
earlier, parts of the sun down and scorching the earth. Well, this is this is the, this is the
chariot that's on fire. Right, exactly. That's coming down. Wow. If you go to slide 65 for a
second there, Austin, this is Sebastiano the fall of fate and there's many artistic depictions.
Getting chills listening to you talk about, recite those stories. Yeah, you just passed it.
Or go, yeah, go to 65. Okay. And then put it on presentation view so we can get the big picture
here. Good. Okay, so what you see here, this is a, you see up in the upper right hand corner,
there's Zeus about to hurl a stunderbolt. And then you see the chariot with the great steeds
plunging down to the earth. And you see poor old hapless fate and falling out of the chariot.
Right. So this is this idea of the fall, the falling of the chariot after it's been
struck by the thunderbolt. And now go to, let's see,
we can go to, let's see, do I have the quote here from Proclus?
Um,
let's see.
And this was all okay. Okay, here we go. Here's, here's Proclus right here. The commentaries of
Proclus on the Tameis of Plato in five books translated from the Greek by Thomas Taylor,
Vol. 1, go to slide 68. And this is, this Proclus is here expressing a very widespread view.
68. You're going up. 68.
Should, it should be right there. Now here's what Proclus is saying when he's commenting on,
on Tameis. And it will be among the number of things which may easily be accomplished. If it
is supposed that this faton was a comet, which being dissolved, produced an intolerable dryness
from the human heat for this supposition is generally adopted. Porphyry therefore says that
certain signs may be assumed from the motion of comets. So what he's Proclus is saying here is
he's confirming the idea that in the ancient times that was a belief that the myth of fate and
actually referred to a comet. Wow. And this would be the comment that the, one of the comments
during the younger dryest period. Well, I tell you what, now go to the next slide, Austin.
Just roll it right on. Okay. The fall of fate and by Gustave Moreau. Now Gustave Moreau was a very
mystically oriented artist who was very immersed into the ancient traditions of cultism and all
of this. Now take a look at this slide. Very interesting because look what he's showing here.
He's showing the fall of fate. The lion top left. Yeah. Right. The lion.
What does that and see the belt, the band there? That is the plane of the ecliptic, right?
Okay. See the plane of the ecliptic is often in astrology and ever so on. It's the belt
that wraps around that encompasses the orbit of the sun, the moon and all the planets. Okay. Right.
Right. Now you look there and you see the lion. You see fate and the chariot falling to it. You see
the great serpent rising up. Right. The great dragon serpent. Right. Right. The great dragon
serpent. What's that a symbol of? It's a symbol for what do you think? We'll come back to that.
It's a symbol of what you see down there to the lower left. See that coming out from behind
the Gustav Moreau wants to make sure that we make the connection. Do you see what that is?
Go down there. Immediately. A left. You got you got the full moon rising and then what's right
above the full moon. A comet. A comet. You got it. So what is the snake a symbol of? The comet.
Oh, it looks like the snakes coming up. Yeah, you know that. Right. Okay. Now
if you could go jump back now.
If you still got the age of Leo open.
Okay. Go back to slide number four.
Yep.
Dawn of the age of Leo.
12,900 years BP. So this is the younger dryest right here. This is the vernal equinox
at the dawn of the age of Leo right on the cusp of Virgo Leo. So the beginning of the younger
dryest was at the beginning of the age of Leo, which is represented by the motion of the vernal
equinox. When you talk about everybody's heard the age of Aquarius, right? Right. Right. The age
of preceded by the age of Pisces, preceded by the age of Aries, preceded by the age of Taurus. Right.
This goes into your sacred geometry and the universal language of time.
Sure. Absolutely. All of that. So using that as a model for time change. What we got here
is that at the beginning, the dawning of the age of Leo, 12,900 years ago, the end of the age of
Leo encompassed the younger dryest and the dual catastrophes that ended the ice age.
Okay. Now, if you go back to Gustav Moreau's painting, he's showing us exactly when the
comet came. He's showing us exactly when fate and chariot. You see, holy shit, man. You're
blowing my mind over here. That was, that was my intent. Yeah. Geez.
The amount of synchronicities and coincidences through all of this, all of this is just mind
blowing. I would have to agree with you. So there's the lion. Okay. For the age of Leo. Yeah.
The comet. The serpent. And now the serpent symbolism is definitely worthy of further
explanation. I think I gave, let's see, did I give you, no, I didn't give you that one. Oh,
yes, I did. You should have this. If you go, there should be one called apocalypse three,
ancient legacy. All right. So go to slide 60. And we're just going to look at some artwork
taken from mythology and stories and legends. And we're just going to not spend a whole lot
of time. We're going to just kind of go through just so somebody can see that there's this tradition
of the slaying of the dragon serpent. So if you go to open apocalypse three, ancient legacy,
God, Dan, this thing is singing forever. Awesome.
Well, I will read you a quick quote here. This is from the book, The Cosmic Serpent. Okay. A
catastrophist view of Earth history by Victor Klube and Bill Napier. 1982. One of the really
early books that I read that helped me to really put these pieces together in place, right? So page
192, they're talking about myths, right? And they say the earliest recorded myths are those of combat
between a God or hero and a dragon. The dragon was a familiar figure in Greece, Egypt, Mesopotamia,
Babylon, India, China, North America and elsewhere. Usually he has the form of a winged serpent.
He is a gigantic monster. He spouts fire and smoke, bellows and hisses. He throws rocks and is the
creator of terrible destruction. And his home is in the sky. So the whole premise of this book
is that the ancient myths of serpents and dragons were referring to celestial events involving
comets, asteroids and impacts on Earth, right? So that's the connection there. Okay. Right. Okay.
The serpent in that drawing, that piece of art with the lion. Yes. And what I was going to get
Austin to open was a whole bunch of imagery that I have. Okay. From Mayan stuff, from
art, Renaissance art and down mythology, North mythology, North mythology, you know,
all of that stuff. But we save that for next time. Right, right. But yeah, typically there are some
of them. I mean, I'm just going to show you since. Okay, see that. Oh, wow. Yeah. So it's a guy riding
like a donkey or something. Yeah. And a serpent coming out of the sky. A serpent coming out of the
sky. Yes. And this guy's holding a cross, some sort of a cross. Yes. Wow. And then let's see,
can I go to the next one? Giant serpent coming out of the sky. Yes. It's just a snake. It doesn't
even look like a dragon. There's no wings. No, there's there's various. Right. Depictions.
Yeah. Let's see. Wow. I can't see.
Yeah, there we go. Okay. Wow. There's a lot of this stuff. And basically what it's showing is this
tradition, right? Long established tradition of associating dragons and serpents with things,
meteors, fireballs, comets, right, asteroids, all of this stuff happening in the sky. So
yeah, so it's it's like in that painting by Gustav Moreau, he's got all of those elements.
Right. And he's even giving us the timing. Right. You know, which coincides right with the
younger dry us. Yes. So let's come back to Atlantis after we've taken this little segue.
Yeah, right. Exactly. We were on. So then I'll go on here one more. I'll finish the quote that I was
reading from. So the old priest says now this has the form of a myth. But it really signifies a
declination of the bodies moving in heavens around the earth. And a great conflagration of
things upon the earth, which occurs after long intervals. Going to say the fact is that wherever
the extremity of winter frost or of summer does not prevent mankind exists, sometimes in greater,
sometimes in lesser numbers. And what whatever happened either in your country or in ours,
or in any other region of which we are informed, if there were any actions noble or great or in
any other way remarkable, they have all been written down by us of old and are preserved in
our temples. Whereas just when you and other nations are beginning to be provided with letters
and the other requisites of civilized life after now, this is really, really important right here.
After the usual interval, the stream from heaven like a pestilence comes pouring down
and leaves only those of you who are destitute of letters in education. So you have to begin all
over again like children and know nothing of what happened in ancient times. So he's telling us right
there, this idea of repeated destructions. They're talking about cycles, 25,000 year cycles.
He doesn't give any time for that. But he just says after the usual interval.
Right, interval. So they've apparently got some knowledge, some understanding
of the cycles that you just said. Because just after the usual interval, the stream from heaven
like a pestilence comes pouring down. So okay, so we're talking about the intervals
basically of like the Leo interval, which was, can you explain what that is, the intervals of
the different cycles? So that's basically ever since ancient times, as early as we can go back,
the ancient peoples who were inveterate, obsessed sky watchers, identified these constellations,
the 12 known ones, right, you know, right, as being unique because they were the ones that
basically all of the movement of the heavenly bodies, the sun, the moon, and the visible planets
all moved within those constellations. Right. Now, in addition to that, the vernal equinox,
the equinoxes and the solstices, which are formed like a giant cross in space because
they're at right angles to each other, it's rotating slowly. Right. So the vernal equinox
was always was like considered to be the marker for the beginning of the year. And it was moving,
it was not fixed, it was moving. And it's called precession of the equinoxes, because it's moving
east to west, whereas all of the other planetary motion, lunar motion, solar motion is from west
to east. So if you're standing facing the south looking up in the heavens, from the northern
hemisphere, all that motion is going to be from west towards the east, except the vernal equinox
is in the opposite direction. So roughly, and this is very rough,
roughly every 2000 years, that vernal equinox will be passing through or transiting
one of those 12 signs. So like for the last 2000 years, it's been passing through the constellation
of Pisces. Hence, we've been in the age of Pisces. Right. Now, there's a lot, of course,
New Age Wu associated with that. But underlying that New Age Wu, there's actual authentic
astronomical phenomena, which is the precession of the equinox, which is simply
an intersection point between the plane of the ecliptic and Earth's equator, celestial equator,
projected into space. And this is going to get complicated, and we'll save this because it requires
some graphics for people to actually envision it. Right. Other than the fact that the Earth's
axis is not stable. It's doing this. Right. It's moving, it's moving multiple. It's rotating the
Sun for one. It's doing the, it's doing the. It rotates on its axis, revolves, the term revolves
around the Sun, and then it does this precessional motion like this. Well. Which is called the wobble,
right? Yeah. Now, if you picture that the Earth's equator is moving with it, and then you project
that plane out into space, that great plane is called the celestial equator, and it's moving
at the same rate Earth's axis. Whereas the plane of the ecliptic, the orbital plane of the planets
and the Sun and the moon remains fixed. So the plane of the ecliptic is fixed. The celestial
equi, the celestial equator is moving like this. So the intersection of those two planes
is moving at the same rate as this and this. And that's roughly just a little less than 26,000
years. Wow. Right. Ancient peoples were really obsessed with. Right. Tracking this motion.
And they were able to measure it like very accurately. Oh yeah, yeah. Which is insane.
It's insane, but in it. Over such a long period of time, like how do you do that? Well, it would take
it, that motion, if you were to try to put it into some understandable form. It's about, it's 50 arc
seconds per year. Okay, so what does that mean? It means that if you look at the whole circle of
the ecliptic, it's 360 degrees. Right. Each degree is divided into 60 minutes and each minute is
divided into 60 seconds. So if you go 60 seconds times 60 minutes times 360 degrees, you get the
total number of arc seconds in the full circle of the ecliptic. And it turns out to be 1,296,000
years. Or I'm sorry, seconds of arc. Right. Precession of the equinoxes is 50 seconds of arc
per year. So if I take my calculator and I go 1,296,000 years, 1 million, oops, 1,201,296,000 years
right there in the calculator, right? Okay. You see this Austin? Okay. Now I divide that by 50.
And that's how much it moves. There's the number of years it takes to make one full cycle. 25,920.
Yeah, just a little less than 26,000. That's one full cycle of the earth's wobble. Yes. Equinox.
Yes. The equinox moving through all 12 signs, coming back to where started, if we took where it
is now, and we backed it up, if we went back 25,920 years, the vernal equinox would be in the same
position. It would be a cusp between between Pisces and Aquarius. And each one of the what
these myths are saying each one of these full cycles of 25,900 years, there is a major catastrophe.
Probably more than one. More than one. And in fact, I would argue that it's
catastrophes associated with the transition of each of the four seasons of the great year.
And this was the term great year. Just as there was the great year is one full rotation of the
equinox. Yes. Okay. At least if you, you know, within the the the the arguments of
Hamlet's Mill, which I think is, I think is credible. They were the ones who wrote the book
Hamlet's Mill in 1969. Giorgio de Santillada and Hearth of Vendesh and wrote this book.
Scholarly, tome, very dense came out in 1969. They make the argument that and we do know that
there was a great year concept in many ancient cultures. They make the argument that the great
year was ultimately had its roots in the processional cycle, which has come down to us in the ages,
you know, the age of Aquarius, the age of Pisces, the age of Aries, which is a remnant of that,
even though it's been watered down into the New Age Wu, right behind it, there is an authentic
tradition. And the belief was is that in the course of that cycle, there were certain, shall we say,
points of vulnerability, where our susceptibility to cosmic catastrophe was increased by maybe
orders of magnitude. Right. And so if if there are these points of vulnerability and we are able
to learn from previous civilizations and these myths and all these legends, wouldn't the primary
focus of our species to be able to get off the planet and become interplanetary to avoid these
things like what we should be focusing on ways to preserve the species, whether it be avoiding
asteroid impacts or comet impacts, either or that or getting off of earth for a certain
time. I like both because anything we can do to maximize the probabilities. Now, you know,
the dark mission that's just underway is an attempt to rendezvous with an asteroid and deflect it.
Right. So that if we to learn to learn and understand the technologies and whereby
if we see that object coming towards the earth, and it's on an impact trajectory, we could nudge
it so that it misses the earth. Now, that would work with an asteroid. I don't know how well
that would work with a comet. How would you do that with an asteroid? How would they do that with
an asteroid? All you have to do is nudge it a little bit. So there this is what the dark
mission is testing. So we could actually get into talking about that. But but yeah, all you need to
do is is, you know, if you attach a rocket to it, and you know, again, all you if you catch it
early enough, then just a little bit of a nudge, right, like a direct hit into a wide miss.
Right, like it's like the theory of hitting a golf ball. If you just a millimeter angle difference
when you're hitting a golf ball equates to, you know, 50, 100 to 100 yards, any direction.
Well, there we go. Sure. I believe, yeah, that's pretty much I think the idea. I think that's the
idea. Now, but if you're talking about something like the shoemaker asteroids that, you know,
were broken into 21 different pieces and hit Jupiter within the period of a week.
How would we deflect 21 comments?
We'd be screwed. Right. We would be screwed. Yes, we would definitely be screwed.
So yes, and that would, to me, make the argument for and this has actually been proposed that
be a good rationale for a lunar base, where we could offload a lot of our technology and
information and things to the moon, thereby perhaps preserving it kind of like a hard drive,
like a safe, like a safe storage for everything we have, because if we got if we did get wiped
out by something, it would, it would virtually erase us from the planet. It would. If anything,
like the hunger, younger dryness happened now. Yeah. Oh yeah. I mean, the remnants of human
population would be reduced to a stone age existence. Because isn't it, isn't it true that
it only takes like about a hundred years for if you erased human civilization off the face of the
earth right now, within a hundred years, all of our buildings, all of our structures, everything
that we have would be consumed by the earth. All you would have would be, it would take longer than
that. Okay. I mean, you know, reinforced concrete structures are going to take probably 400 years
to a thousand years. Okay. But that's just assuming. But a thousand years is nothing on the scale of
things that we're talking about. Yeah, when we're talking about things from 12,000. Right. Now,
that's assuming, you know, you know, there was that book came out about 10 years ago called
The World Without Us, where he kind of goes into talking to engineers and material scientists and
all of this and tries to get to the bottom. What would happen if all of a sudden all people disappeared
and human infrastructure was still there? What would happen to it over the millennium? And
pretty much the conclusion was there wouldn't be anything left to speak of after 10,000 years,
with the exception, perhaps, of the pyramids. Mount Rushmore. Mount Rushmore was one, I think
they mentioned. But, you know, the thing is there and that's just assuming gradualistic
processes. That's not even counting. You might have some serious catastrophes in the in and
what I've tried to so in fact, there's somebody now who put out a video called why Randall
Carlson is wrong. Oh, really? Oh, yeah, yeah. And I'm how does that make you feel? Oh, it doesn't
make me feel bad. I mean, I'm look, I'm totally cool with that. And the reason is, is that this
particular video basically is just your standard issue response to these kinds of questions.
And basically, what it boils down to is this, well, if there was something existing, and of
course, what this guy does is he basically takes some quotes of mine out of one of the Joe Rogan
podcasts out of context, and then he kind of contrives his own scenario of what I'm saying,
which isn't what I'm really saying. Right. And then he, you know, yeah, total straw man,
total straw man. That's exactly what it is. But what it's clear from what I watched the video
a few months ago was that he had no concept of catastrophism and what the implications of that
would be in terms of, you know, because his basic argument was that, well, if there was some
civilization, you know, back in the ice age, we would still be finding artifacts and this kind of
thing to prove that it was there. And this is this has been a, you know, a rationale that's been
proffered by these guys for decades now, that, well, where's the potchards? Where's the evidence?
You know, well, I mean, now, like Graham Hancock likes to point out, well, we got the evidence,
you know, every year, we're learning more and more stuff. And he cites gobeckli tepe, right?
Now, now this guy, what he says is, well, he says, he makes assertions like this. He says, well,
we know that Stone Age hunter gatherers could build monument, we're capable of, you know,
monumental structures. Look at gobeckli tepe. My first thought is, well, wait a second,
you have no idea who built gobeckli tepe. You don't know. And you're just
projecting your own imaginary scenario. Like, wait a minute, nomadic hunter gatherers,
oh, they're fully capable of creating monumental architecture. And I'm like, okay,
I guess they've got a lot of spare time and a lot of extra people, not, you know, I mean,
hunter gatherers, we know from Stone Age, from multiple, and this guy's an archaeologist,
he should know better. I mean, nomadic hunter gatherers are typically, you know, just extended
families of maybe 40 to 100 people for the most part, right? To accomplish these kinds of monumental
infrastructure workings, you have to have an organized society. You have to have leisure
time. You have to have abundant food. You have to have the people that are doing this are not
spending their time out hunting, hunting, right? No. And why would you do it? What's the motive
there? Come on, I'd like to know a motive. You're not consumed by survival. Let's just put it like
exactly. And then in the case of gobeckli tepe, you know, it's, it's been buried. Right. Now,
some say purposefully, right? Oh, yeah, yeah. So, you know, why would you do that? Well, I
think this, this is my thought, first thought that comes to my mind, because, you know, I've
studied nuclear strategy, I've studied, you know, our Cold War doctrines, and, you know,
the ideas of mutual assured destruction and learning about, you know, all of the different
capacities of nuclear weapons and what what would happen during the course of a nuclear war.
And the first thing that should come to your mind is this, is that, you know, we were talking
earlier about Tunguska and it, you know, 15 megaton bomb. Well, you drop a 15 megaton bomb,
it's going to wipe out anything on the surface. But why is part of our nuclear doctrine,
do we put missile silos underground? Essentially, we bury them. Same with
hardened command and control centers. Isn't it to hide it from like aerial surveillance?
No, aerial detonations, aerial explosions, surface explosions of nuclear weapons.
Yeah. So you've got a super hardened missile silo that's, you know, stories underground.
Remember in the late 80s, when we were developing that new generation of missiles like the Pershing
two missiles, the Trident three missiles, you know what they were designed to do? They were
designed to penetrate up to 50 or 60 feet into the earth before exploding. Why? Because you had
to do that if you're going to take out a missile silo or a command and control bunker, you've got
to be able to explode them underground. If they're buried, they're going to be, you know, they're
going to be protected from what's the blast and the fire and everything that's up on the surface.
That's why it was done. So now, again, think about the correlations, the parallels between the
Tunguskablet. You brought this up yourself. You said Hiroshima and Nagasaki were actually
detonated in the atmosphere. And the purpose of that, again, is because the radius of destruction
is much greater with the surface on the surface when you have an atmospheric detonation. Right.
So if you want to preserve a monument from an aerial explosion, bury it.
That's what you do. You'd bury it. Now, if we had the stream from heaven descending like a
pestilence and that stream of heaven is hundreds of Tunguska objects, you would bury it. You would
bury it. You would bury it. Yes. What about the pyramids?
Well, yeah. Good question. I mean, when were those built?
That's a controversial question. You asked me about this. Yeah, to say the least, right?
The Sphinx, I think the evidence is pretty solid that the Sphinx has to be older than
Old Kingdom because I've looked at this. I've been there. I've examined it firsthand. I've
had extensive discussions with Robert Shock and John Anthony West, both.
John, when he was still alive, Robert, it's been a while, but yeah, I mean, way back whenever we
were, I helped him put on a public presentation in Asheville, got way back by 2004, 2003.
And we had some very fruitful conversations about, you know, rock weathering rates and
limestone exposed to the atmosphere and so on. And, you know, what it boiled down to was that
it's really difficult to explain the erosion of the Sphinx as being something purely limited to
Old Kingdom times 43 to 4500 years ago. Right. So I think that it's very clear that the erosion
on the Sphinx is water erosion and is very, very pronounced and would have required some rather
extreme, either extreme, shorter lived flooding or longer term. Now, like in Jimmy's account,
he's talking about when the Sahara was green covered in green, right? There would have been a
lot more rainfall during that period of time. Right. So here's the question. Was it prolonged
rainfall over thousands of years? That's one possibility. Or was it intense flooding much
shorter and much quicker of highly abrasive floodwaters flowing off the Giza Plateau causing
the erosion? Then if that was the case, at what point can we document any evidence of there being
massive floods in that area? And we can, but we have to go back 12,000 years to find those flood
events. And those are very vehemently objected. Those ideas of water erosion on the Sphinx,
that's frowned upon. Egyptology does not. Yeah, but not so much by geologists. Right, exactly.
That's the thing. I came across a hilarious meme yesterday. I want to show it to you on here.
Can you pull it up? Okay. He's taking a minute about the ancient pyramids. But anyways, like we
were talking about before, we brought up the pyramids. It seems like, like you said, getting
everything that we know to preserve what we have up our humanity to date, the best way to do it,
to save it from some sort of catastrophe is to get it off the planet somehow.
That would be one way to really maximize the probabilities that it could survive. And I think
the most logical place for that would be the moon. Right. And do you put any merit to the idea
that that could have already been done, not necessarily to the moon, but there could have been
any sort of previous civilizations that thought the same thing, we need to get off this planet?
Well, you know, I just, I read to you that quote earlier about the tree of heaven,
right? And that there were two branches on the tree of heaven, one that the celestial tree,
one that went to heaven and one to went to earth. Well, that's a fairly common belief,
this idea that there was this bifurcation of the human species and that some state and some
left some state and some left. So, you know, how credible is that? Well, you can't prove nothing
with the, based on myth alone. Right. You have to find some objective, some objective evidence.
There's something to, there's just, there's something to that idea of humans somehow making
it off earth and, you know, mixing DNA with some sort of other or somehow surviving for
millions of years and then coming back to check up on us apes that are still around today.
It's a, it's a perplexing idea. Yeah. Yeah. This is the meme I wanted to show you.
It shows the guy, it shows the, the ancient Egyptians building the pyramids and says,
this is a crime. He says, yeah, but at least people in the future will appreciate the effort
and the skill it took to build these pyramids. Then it shows the girl, people in the future,
a girl sitting there staring at the pyramids. Aliens obviously built those.
I tend to, I tend to align with Graham Hancock on this that, you know, I, we don't need aliens.
If we assume that there was some level of advancement
in human civilization, we don't need the aliens. Now, which is, which is going to be
more credible or difficult to believe that it was aliens that came from where and came down
to earth and built these things or helped us build them. Or there was a, some civilization
that had the capability. Super advanced humans. Something. Yeah. Super advanced.
Yeah. Something like that. I see, I find that really easier to believe at this point. Now,
listen, the whole question of aliens is really complicated and fraught with
a lot of different conspiracies and everything. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. You get discredited
instantly. It's still a fun thing to talk about. It's still a fun thing to talk about. Yes, absolutely.
And I usually don't go there because of that. And I have my own interpretation of
the whole ET phenomena. And I think we talked about it a little bit. And at some point in
the near future, I'm going to get into that because people are always asking me, but I...
Well, you see this stuff that's going on today with these crazy aircrafts that are flying all
over the place, all over these military battleships and, and, and military bases and these things that
you can't, that, that modern physics does not allow to happen. These things moving at incredible
speeds, passing these military fighter jets. And you see that and it just bolsters this
discussion. It makes it more, it's a mainstream thing to talk about now. Like 10 years ago,
you would be considered a crazy person to talk about the, talk about UFOs. Now it's,
it's common thing. Everyone talks about it. It's one of the things that people in the government
and the Pentagon is opening, you know, has opened up. Right. Yeah. And, and yeah. So that's why I
feel like it's timely to talk about it. And the one thing I would say for now is that, you know,
you've got, you've got, for one thing, we know that at least a number of some percentages of the
UFO sightings are really experimental aircraft. And the Pentagon is perfectly happy to let people
believe that it's UFOs if they're trying to keep experimental aircraft secret. The other is that
there are natural phenomena. People like Paul Devereux have documented things, you know, that
fluctuations into geomagnetic field can produce interesting phenomena in the sky.
You know, where you have, you know, let's say along fault lines where you have great masses of
like, say, quartz bearing minerals moving with respect to each other under with great
sheer force, which is what a fault line is. It's it's a crack in the earth. But unlike a static
crack, the two sides of the crack are moving with respect to each other. Right. That movement can
set up fluctuations into geomagnetic field that can actually impinge upon people's
what they're experiencing and witnessing can actually produce visible luminosities in the
atmosphere. Many times this has been documented to have happened before earthquakes, that there
will be lights that that appear in the atmosphere and things like that. So there's another side of
that whole another discussion. In fact, I did a I did a discussion with Paul years ago, where we
talked, got into all of that, and it's recorded somewhere. I'd like to get them back on my show
to talk about that further. Now, the third thing is where you'd say, okay, there are authentic
craft of some kind that we have no explanation for. Right. So what if people immediately jump to
us? Oh, it's aliens. It's extraterrestrials. And where did they come from? You know, right. Okay,
that's, that's the thing where I'm saying it's not what people think it is. It's something very
different. And you're kind of on the right track. But we'll leave it at that for now. And I'm going
to jump back to Atlantis. Okay, and a quote from Plato. So now this is this again, is the the old
priests talking to Solon. He says, many great and wonderful deeds are recorded of your state in
our histories. That he's talking about this proto Athenian state that allied with the the
Egyptians to fight off this incursion of this great Atlantean empire, right? See,
he says many great and wonderful deeds are recorded in your state in our histories. But one of them
exceeds all the rest in greatness and valor. For these histories tell of a mighty power which
unprovoked made an expedition against the whole of Europe and Asia, and to which your city put an
end. And here's the key passage right here. This power came forth out of the Atlantic Ocean.
For in those days, the Atlantic was navigable. Okay, very clear. Came forth out of the Atlantic
Ocean. Now in Plato's day, the Atlantic Ocean was no different than our Atlantic Ocean today.
Right. Now listen to this. And there was an island situated in front of the Straits,
which are by you called the pillars of Heracles. The island was larger than Libya and Asia put
together and was the way to other islands. And from these, you might pass to the whole of the
opposite continent, which surrounds the true ocean. Look back up there again.
You're looking back at the mid Atlantic Ridge. Yes, Atlantic Ocean up by the now he's talking
about sailing west from the pillars of Heracles. And there were islands right there in that light
gray area. So that would have been listen. There was an island situated in the fronts of the Straits,
which are called by you the pillars of Heracles. And was the way to other islands and from these,
you might pass to the whole of the opposite continent. And there it is right over there. It's
almost as if he's saying these Egyptians knew about the presence of North America. Right. Yeah.
Which surrounds the true ocean. Because as he says, for this sea, which is within the Straits
of Heracles, which he's talking about the Mediterranean, is only a harbor, having a narrow
entrance. But that other is a real sea and the surrounding land may be most truly called
a boundless continent. If you go now to slide number 89, Austin. Okay, so here we have
Straits of Gibraltar. Okay, we're looking at the Gulf of Cadiz. Yes. Okay, with the Africa on the
bottom connecting to the Iberian Peninsula on top and the Straits of Gibraltar going right through
the center. Now roll forward one slide. Now take a look. And you'll see the mid Atlantic
Ridge is very prominent. Right. Okay, and it's it's really it's it's one of the weakest areas of
crust on the entire planet. Why is that? Because it's a spreading center. It's where it's where
crust is being born. It's the origin of the crust. That's a huge crack there and molten
lava issues up from the crack and then spreads laterally. And it's this that's driving the
motion of the the tectonic plates at least within the framework of plate tectonics. Okay.
Okay, so now listen to what the priest goes on to say. Now in this island, island is the word
of Atlantis. There was a great and wonderful empire which had rule over the whole island
and several others and over parts of the continent. So he's very much distinguishing between the
continent and the island and the island. But then he's saying had rule over the whole island
and several others. So it was not limited to a single island, but then and over parts of the
continent. And furthermore, the men of Atlantis had subjected the parts of Libya within the columns
of Heracles as far as Egypt. So they would have if that was the case, they would have been colonizing
the area of Northwestern Africa, which is now Morocco, what is now Libya, including probably
what is now Mauritania. So if you assume that it might have not it all been implausible to assume
that you know, Atlantean explorers could have traversed the area of the reach out structure.
Right. Then this vast power gathered into one endeavor to subdue at a blow our country and
yours and the whole region within the straits. Okay. And then salon your country shown forth
in the excellence of her virtue and strength among all mankind for she was first encouraged in
military skill and was the leader of the Helene's. I'm going to jump in the sake of times. So then
they have this big war. And led by the peoples within the Straits of Gibraltar around the Mediterranean
led by these proto Athenians freely liberated all the others who dwell within the limits of
Heracles. So he's describing a very explicit. You've got this power comes forth out of the
Atlantic. It rules over a series of islands. There's one main island rules over the series
of islands comes within to the Mediterranean, which he describes as just a harbor compared
to the real ocean, subdues all of these nations. And then the proto Athenians managed to organize
them all they fight off. And they liberate all those others who now who dwell within the limits of
of Heracles. And then afterwards there occurred violent earthquakes and floods in a single day
night of rain. All your warlike men in the body sank into the earth. So in other words,
he's referring now to something that's happening in the Greek peninsula, right? And
the island of Atlantis in like manner disappeared and was sunk beneath the sea. Now to me, that is
pretty explicit. You got an island. There were earthquakes. It sank beneath the sea. Right.
There's no ambiguity there. And that part of that part of where the eye of Africa is that was
never completely underwater. No, not since probably Cretaceous times because our Cretaceous
limestones right there, which shows that it was then underwater, right? Okay, like 60 million,
70 million, 80 million years ago. Now, great. Now, Jimmy is absolutely right when he talks about
water flowing over. And I discussed that in my discussion of the recat structure,
that there is evidence that there was these tremendous floods flowing over. And that's
probably why the structure is exposed as it is. Because there, these floods would have ripped
away the bedrock concealing it and exposed the core of this ancient plume. Yeah. Volcanic plume.
Yeah. So, I mean, there's so much here we could get into. Yeah, it's lengthy. It's a lot.
It's a lot. And anybody who finds this captivating and they want to learn more about this, I highly
recommend you to episode nine of Randall's podcast. Well, that's the one that specifically
addresses the recat structure. There's many episodes that talk about. I think I've got
five episodes leading up to that six, maybe a couple hours each. And I go into all the geology,
the geography and oceanography, like we were doing here a line by line analysis of
Plato's account, plus a few other peripheral accounts, you know, Herodotus and Proclus and so on.
Right. It's called Cosmographia with a K. With a K, right. I like words with a K.
Okay. Me too. Well, that's the Greek spelling, the Greek cosmograph. Oh, is it really? Yeah. Cosmography
in the English spelling starts with a C. Okay. But it's the, it comes back from like Renaissance
times and it was the study of, you know, the study of big things. It included geology, astronomy,
geometry, geography, all of that. So the cosmographer was the, was the one who would try to
understand and comprehend basically all the knowledge of their day. So interesting. Yeah.
Well, Randall, we've hit about three hours and 15 minutes. Oh, wow. Then we should probably get
on our way. Thank you so much for doing this, man. I could do another three hours, but we'll
have to save that for episode two. We'll do that. Give me another excuse to get back. Yeah,
absolutely, man. Tell, tell everyone where they can research more, find more of your work online.
Well, okay, a couple of places, just Randall Carlson.com will be the gateway to a whole bunch
of stuff. I'm also partnering with a new internet platform called How Tube, which I think could be
an important player in the next few years because of their opposition to censorship,
their desire, our I'll say, because I'm partnering with them to provide a forum more or less sensor
free, censorship free. And yeah, so we're getting new content up all the time. And the other thing
is, you know, organize, we're actually looking at organizing a tour to the Azores next year.
Oh, that would be an Atlantis tour. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So we'll see how that sounds exciting.
Well, it would be. So, you know, we've got a tour coming up in March, which is going to be
not far. It's going to be up on the Cumberland Plateau of Eastern Tennessee. And there was a
remarkable landscape hiding beneath the forests of Eastern Tennessee. And the idea is to take people
up there. And in its multiple, multi purpose, one is going to be to show people that there are these
landscapes hidden from view. Now, when we go out in Eastern Washington, we look at the scab lands,
these are landscapes that are pretty much visible to the eye. And I wish we'd had time to get into
some of that tonight, because it's so extraordinary. You know, when you see the effects of hundreds of
millions of cubic feet of water ripping across the landscape, right? What, you know, the in the
aftermath of that is pretty extraordinary. Well, when you go up in Eastern Washington, Western
Montana, that area up there to Pacific Northwest, that evidence is very spectacularly displayed.
And you've got a semi arid climate in Eastern Washington. So, you know, the Coolies and the
great boulder trains and things like that are pretty much exposed to view, right? You get to
other parts of the country and unbeknownst to most people. And this is why we're going to Eastern
Tennessee. When you look beneath the canopy of vegetation, you see the same type of features.
Really? Not quite on the same scale, but still spectacular. You know, cataracts is a thing that
is produced by these gigantic water flows. And one of the things that I've been developing in our
podcast series is that I'm showing how all the major rivers of North America are what are called
underfit streams or underfit rivers, which means that the rivers are flowing in channels
that are way supersized relative to the modern river that's flowing in it. And the old
thinking about that is we've got this big channel and it formed over millions of years erosion.
But we know now that's not how they formed. They formed by these gigantic catastrophic
water flows that left these huge channels within the Earth's crust. And the modern rivers are just
using those. I mean, you name any river and I can almost show you that it's an so-called underfit
river. So like when I grew up in Minnesota, I've told this story about how I was at a summer of
1969, I was at a rock concert on the Bluffs overlooking the Valley of the Minnesota River.
And I saw something there that made an impression on me was this, the phenomenon of scale and
variance. So I looked at the small, small, it's a pretty good size river, but down below me,
hundreds of feet below these bluffs I was standing on was the modern Minnesota River.
And I could see that it was flanked by small bluffs on either side. And then three miles
across, I saw another set of bluffs matching the 250 foot high bluffs that I was on.
Right? And I was probably in an altered state of consciousness at the time.
Probably.
Probably, yes. Which maybe made me look at things in a slightly different perspective.
But I remember thinking, it was like what I was looking at this little ribbon of this river down
below me was, was sort of, you know, recapitulated in this huge valley that I was looking into.
And I kind of forgot about it for years until, you know, maybe a decade later when I started
really learning about catastrophism and giant floods and stuff. And then I came back to that.
There's been studies now made that, you know, I remember I was doing a lecture and I had a,
he was not a geologist, he was a photographer, but he had a degree in geology.
And I was explaining how I looked at this valley and I thought maybe there was a giant
catastrophic flood that came through there. And that was my first impression, my first
awareness of scale and variant phenomenon in the realm of geology. But then he goes,
no, no, no, no, no, that was produced over, you know, tens of thousands or millions of years.
You know, that was, there was no big, right? And I said, I don't remember his name.
John, his name was John. I said, John, I think you're wrong. But I couldn't make a good solid
argument. So this would have been, you know, early 80s. So that was really a trigger for me.
And that was one of the things that actually made me pursue formal geological studies,
right? Wow. Of course, now- So that was sort of the seed for this voyage you've been on.
Yeah, it was a, it was a, it kind of, it annoyed me. And I thought, I knew I was right. I knew I
was right. Now, since then, I've gone back, I've visited and traversed that river valley. I took
Graham Hancock along portions of that river valley. And as it turns out, yeah, it was a gigantic
glacial meltwater flood that came through there. Geologists that have studied it actually call it
glacial river warren. The peak discharge of glacial river warren was approximately 4,000 times
greater than the modern Minnesota river that flows through the valley. So if you took the
modern river times 4,000, that was the volume of glacial river warren, see. It's a fuck ton.
It's a, yeah, yeah. So, um, yeah, I mean, there's so many things we could get into here, but
anyhow, uh, so if you go back and you look at, um, the North American continent, the majority
of rivers in North America are underfit rivers. And I've got several episodes, multiple episodes,
of the Cosmographia podcast where I'm getting, showing the lidar maps and everything where you
don't really see so much from the surface. But when you look under the surface, you see these,
these enormous features that are these gigantic things that are on such a grand scale that,
you know, until the last generation or two, we were totally oblivious. But we, I'll put it this
way. And I don't think this is, this is hyperbole. There is right now, engraved into the surface of
this planet, a script that tells a story about these gigantic cosmic events which our planet has
been involved in. And for 12,000, 13,000 years, this engraved script has been lying beneath our feet,
unbeknownst to us. But memories of these events have come down through us through myth, legend,
folklore, and so on. And now we have the technical means to see things that previous generations
couldn't see. And now that we're seeing things on a planetary scale and we've got satellite
photography and we've got aerial photography and now things like ground penetrating radar
and LiDAR and the list goes on, we have new eyes and we're now in a privileged position where we
can actually begin to read that script that's been waiting for us, been waiting to be rediscovered
for 12,000 years. And now it's happening. And that's what my podcast is mainly about.
Well, it's fascinating, man. Like I said, I've, I've been listening to six to seven hours of it
straight. I still got a long way to go. And I highly recommend it's hard to stop. Once you
start listening to it, it's almost impossible to stop just like any of the podcasts that you've
done in the past on Joe's podcast or anything else. It's fascinating. And I'm so happy to see
that it's becoming more of a mainstream interest to people. So anybody, you know, wants to know
more, just Randall Carlson.com, you'll find out about all the stuff that we're doing in the tours
we're planning that are coming up. So if you want to get involved in any way,
there's multiple ways people who would like to get involved some way or another.
You know, because this is I see this is, you know, like I mentioned how to and we've got a
really incredible team, a group of content creators that are coming together under the
how to banner. I don't know if you know Mark who does the after school animations, really incredible
stuff. Yeah, so we're going to be we're going to there's this network coming to you and you're
now whether you like it or not, you're part of this network. Perfect. I'm ready to go to the Azores.
Yeah. Okay. Maybe you'll join us just to Tennessee. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Much quicker and
cheaper, but it'll be fun. Hey, I'll pay I'll pay my own way to go to the Azores. I got all the
underwater camera, cinematography equipment we need. All right. All right. Well, we've we've
leased we've reserved 20 rooms at the new resort that's being that's just being finished in January
at Falls Creek Falls, which is and we got a couple of cabins and we're going to be
and is leading up to it in the in the probably six weeks leading up to it. We'll do a series of
zoom conferences where we're kind of briefing everybody on what we're going to be doing,
what the objectives are, some of the background to understand the science and the the the geology
and all of this. Right. And then I think it'll be five days. Okay. And we'll have two big Tennessee
tour vans. Yeah, Eastern Tennessee and revealing revealing the landscape that's hidden under this
canopy of vegetation. Well, that sounds fucking fascinating, man. I would love to be a part of
that. You can man. And Austin can be too. Austin, you're coming. He'll probably be somewhere on the
other side of the planet. Okay. One last thing I'll mention is that there is a website out there
that I was once affiliated with. And it's no longer due to multiple issues I had to
break away from it. It turned it was it was launched ostensibly to be a showcase for my
work. And it turned into the webmaster turned it into his own soapbox to promote conspiracy
theories. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. And what was that? Sacred Geometry International. Oh, really? Yes.
So he continues to fraudulently use my name, my face to sell my work. I receive no money and
have received no money in over three years now. But if you go to the website, you totally think
yeah, this is Randall's website and I'm going to donate I'm going to buy this it'll go to Randall
doesn't. It's too bad because it started out good. But then along the way,
it just it's not what it what it appeared to be. And turned into a con job. Yeah. Yeah, that's
fucked up. It is. Well, the Sacred Geometry thing is a whole nother can of worms to dive into next
time is that just your video on YouTube. I think it's like a two hour video of you of you presenting
Sacred Geometry. I think it's to some sort of university students. And you're doing a presentation
and that is enthralling on its own just talking about the dodecahedrons and how that correlates
into the cosmic, the universe and yeah, it's fucking amazing. It is amazing. And that's
some of the stuff that you know, you can trace back and you go its origins appear to be very
ancient. There's so many things that go back to the very beginnings of recorded history that
just don't make sense unless there was something preceding that. Right. You see, right. So well,
hopefully we get into it in the next one. Well, Randall, thank you so much for your time. Thanks
for having me, Danny. I appreciate it. Okay, man. I enjoyed it. Goodbye, world.
