What got you into these crazy marathon swims in arctic waters?
A journey got me there.
You definitely don't wake up one morning and say, I want to do the kind of thing that
I'm doing.
And obviously I've specialized in the ultra extreme ice water stuff and eventually pushing
boundaries, firstly my own and then eventually the boundaries of what was meant to be humanly
possible.
So I've taken it to the nth degree.
And again, that's not something you decide to do, it's something that slowly evolves.
You know, I was, you know, just to backtrack a little bit, I think a wonderful part of
my story is that at the age of 30 years old, 30, I always say 30 and everyone thinks in
America, I'm saying 50, but 30, 30, I had done nothing.
I'm 48 years old now and I was a couch potato doing very little and running an advertising
business back in South Africa, doing really well and enjoying life and relatively, it
was active, but then that kind of slid into the couch.
And one day I just decided to make a change and, you know, I took a client away and he
said, we'll join my little swimming squad.
And I hadn't done any swimming for many, many years up until that point.
And I thought, well, I've always enjoyed the water, so let me get in the pool and I managed
to do a few lengths before I almost vomited because I put myself in the fast lane and
then, you know, ego kicks in, you try and keep up with the guys who have been there
for years and you've just on number one, session one, and I stuck to it.
And that just started an unbelievable process.
So where were you the first time you did one of these ultra marathons?
Where was it?
Was it in like freezing temperatures?
No.
So if anyone's been to Cape Town and had a swim in our waters and Camps Bay and Clifton,
they're really, really beautiful and encourage everyone to come, but the water is cold.
And it is, you know, I'm going to use the metric system, so we'll have to do some conversions
into Imperial for you.
But the water is round about 14, but probably 45 degrees Fahrenheit is what you find and
that is quite chilly.
So you are exposed to the cold water.
If you ever want to get out the swimming pool and into the ocean, I don't wear any wet suits
or any grease, anything like that.
It's purely sort of a brief or speedo type costume, one cap and goggles.
And so I started to be exposed to the cold quite a lot and there's a small in the back
in the day, there's a small swimming community that used to do short distances in these conditions.
And I sort of joined them and started to be exposed to the cold and then taking on more
and eventually someone challenged me to do a swim from Robben Island to the beach.
Now, Robben Island is where Nelson Mandela spent 18 of his 27 years incarcerated and
the swim from Robben Island to the beach at that stage, it's a seven and a half kilometers
or what's that about five miles and it's cold water and it's quite, it's quite scary
water to put it bluntly.
What coast is that off, what is that island off of?
It is Table Bay, so it's right at the tip of Africa.
Right at the bottom tip.
Right at the bottom tip of Africa.
That is a sharky place.
That is a sharky place.
So we'll get into that because that's where a lot of the psychology of what I do comes
into it.
But just in the early days, if someone swam from Robben Island to the beach, it made
front page headlines, it was a big accomplishment.
And I remember looking at these people are doing it and every now and then maybe once
a year someone would do it and they'd make the headlines and I'd just been, oh, I mean,
who can do that?
It's just insane, crazy, crazy stuff.
And eventually somebody said me the challenge, well, hey, you're not enjoying your swimming
in the swimming pool, why don't you try and set Robben Island as a challenge and it was
absolutely insane for me.
But long story short, I ended up giving it a go after training for about six months and
making it and then starting to realize a little bit about myself that what I thought was
impossible for me or reserved for better humans was actually well within my grasp.
And that set me on quite an interesting journey.
So it was one part of the journey.
The other part of the journey was I started through so much exposure to the element of
cold.
I started to realize just how unbelievably impactful the element of cold is on the human
body, but more importantly on the human mind.
So we haven't as humans evolved well at all to handle the cold, but we've evolved exceptionally
well to avoid it.
So if you throw yourself into cold water, your body and most importantly your mind implements
some highly evolved and very powerful defense mechanisms to make sure you get out of that
situation.
So you get pain and panic and fear and hyperventilation, all of this kind of happens in your head.
And, you know, if the water is really cold, you often deny the ability of rational thought
and it just wants you to get out of that water because reality is if you stay in without
protection, you're going to die.
You're going to cool.
The water is going to cool you down to its temperature.
That's just science.
It's going to happen.
And through repeated exposures, I started to realize just how overzealous this unbelievably
powerful defense mechanism in my head was trying to get me out long before I actually
needed to.
So there is an endpoint to acknowledge that there isn't impossible.
Just on a sidebar, I'm the inspirational speaker who's made an international career
not saying that anything is possible.
I actually say there is an impossible.
There is an endpoint.
Let's be real.
But where your mind tells you the endpoint is, is not where it is.
And that's kind of the crux of what I preach in a much more entertaining way.
And I started to figure all of this out that, you know, that there's a line that your mind
wants you to go back to comfort, and that's to keep you alive, which is great for the
survival of our species and all of this, but it's way overzealous.
And I'm sure that has to compromise for a major chunk, a large degree of the human
brain is probably designed to keep you away from dangerous situations.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, that is what we've all to do is to stay alive.
And that makes complete sense, and it's obviously a very useful defense mechanism to have.
But it holds us back, you know, and it's usually 99% of the time it happens subconsciously.
So it's something that happens at the back of your brain.
You hit an uncomfortable situation and you steer towards comfort.
That's absolutely normal.
Now, when you throw yourself into cold water, that's what usually happens subconsciously
comes bouncing to the front of your brain.
And you actually notice it like, hang on, it wants me out right now.
I can't think of anything.
So here's an example that Robin Island swim I spoke about.
Yeah.
The first time it was my absolute Everest.
I've now done it 122 times.
So no one in the world has ever done it more than me.
So it has become quite a routine.
In summer, when I've got more daylight hours, I go out to the island.
I'm there by six in the morning.
I swim maybe two, two and a bit hours to get to the beach and I'm in the office before
9 a.m.
So it's routine.
But I tell you that because on each and every single one of those crossings, which is now
routine for me, I get negative.
There is at some point, I start to look for reasons why I can get back into that support
boat that's alongside me rather than stay in the water and make it across to the beach.
And I started to become fascinated as to why this is.
I mean, yes, I mean, I know I'm going to make it to the beach, yet my mind is just telling
me and looking for every excuse under the sun to get me out.
Now you mentioned sharks, cold water swimmer, I promise you, sometimes praise for a shock.
Let the support crew see a fin because then they will pull me out the water and it won't
be my fault.
I didn't fail because it was a shock.
You start to actively look for reasons why you can fail, not why you should stay in and
succeed.
And once I started to figure all of this out, I started to realize just how applicable it
is, what I'm experiencing in the cold water and as the colder you get, the more brutal
it becomes or more profound it becomes.
It's happening in everyday life to every single one of us, especially in the corporate
environment.
It is absolutely quite profound and the reason I reckon, and I'm no scientist, but I figured
this out through many, many swimming expeditions, is that that defence mechanism that is designed
to keep us safe, the side effect is to keep us safe from running into a fire or running
off a cliff, I suppose.
The side effect is it's also designed to keep us safe from the emotional pain that comes
from failure because when we fail there's a little bit of hurt, there's consequences,
humiliation, there's all those things that go with it.
So when we see an environment or a decision that we might take or a step we might take
that could advance us, but it could also lead to failure because we don't know what's on
the other side of the line.
It's not in our lane.
We naturally just gravitate back to staying in the lane and delivering nice steady performance
perhaps, but just not excelling and not learning and not growing.
Jordan, could you pull up a map of that island?
What was the name of that island?
Robin.
Robin.
So it's R-O-B-E-N.
Yeah, pull up a map.
I want to see what that looks like.
So off in the distance, that is mainland?
Yeah, we can't swim there.
That's the further route, but you can swim to Bloberg Beach, which isn't in that picture,
but you get the shortest route is 7.5 kilometers, about half a mile.
If you swim to Table Mountain, that's about 10, 11 kilometers.
Now, I'm sure you've seen the video of Mick Fanning getting attacked by that great white
shark in the middle of a freaking televised surf contest, like that is one of the most
terrifying things, that is like the epitome of my worst nightmare, and that places whole
South Africa is infested with those sharks and sea lions, seals and stuff like that,
swimming everywhere, but you're surrounded by boats that are constantly watching for
this stuff and looking out for sharks?
So yes.
So firstly, my comment on the Mick Fanning situation, and he wasn't attacked by the shark,
the shark wanted to attack him.
It would be a different outcome.
I think I got stuck in his leash or something.
So it was shaking him out just to see what he is, but sharks are not man-eaters.
I think we all know this.
And in the daylight, they obviously, they are opportunistic predators, so they want to come
and see what you are.
So they'll get nice and close and maybe, and on the rare occasion, they take a bite and
they take an arm or maybe kill you in the process, it doesn't really mean to.
And we call it a shark attack, which I totally understand, but 99.9% of the time, they check
you out and realize that you're not what they eat, and they're very often.
I think in Mick's case, came a bit too close and got stuck in his leash, and just looking
at the video that I saw.
But yes, I'm not surrounded by boats, but generally, if I'm doing an open water swim,
I will have a support crew alongside.
So there will be a boat and someone looking out for the wildlife.
They have like a really tall tower, so they can have like a nice aerial view.
No, that's a rubber duck.
It's a little dirty.
Because you can't see much from one of those little rubber boats.
No, you take the chance.
You do the maths and you realize you're going to be okay.
But to be honest, the shark that you spot is not the shark you need to worry about.
You've got the great white is what's prolific down in the waters I swim in, and that comes
if it's going to take you, it comes from below, and it breaches, and it's made its mind up
longer than it's going to do it.
It's been watching you a lot longer than you've been watching it, or because you haven't seen
it, and it does.
It comes in for the attack.
What draw drew you to doing, was it more of like the adrenaline rush of doing this?
Because it seems like kind of making a trek like that, it almost seems like the equivalent
of skydiving to me.
Probably, and skydiving is still on my bucket list that I've never had time to do it.
So, yes, there is an element of that, but I'm not a cowboy.
My journey is, I was totally unsporty, as I said, I was sitting on the couch and I started
to do these swims that I didn't realize I could do and they were reserved in my head
for other people, and it's the element of cold that fascinated me, the element of how
that impacted me, and trying to go a little bit colder and a little bit further.
Swimming with the sharks is just a side effect, because they're all there, where I do my
training and my swims.
Does it add to it?
It absolutely adds to it, it's a psychology.
Swimming and cold, swimming's obviously a very extraneous sport.
When you're tired, you're physically fatigued, there's salt water, you're mostly stung on
nearly every swim, there's jellyfish and blue bottles and things, so it's extremely uncomfortable.
Then you throw in the element of cold, which really impacts you mentally, and the kicks
in those defense mechanisms I spoke about.
Then you throw in the psychology that you're looking deep down into the blue abyss and
you know what's down there, and even though you haven't seen it, it's probably seen you,
and that just pings on your psychology as well and your state of mind to continue in
what is often a very difficult challenge.
All of that put together makes open water swimming certainly in my neck of the woods
a very, very, very tough sport, which makes you quite mentally resilient if you do it
more, and if you manage to compartmentalize those fears and I don't want to say it's irrationality
because it's quite rational being scared of shocks, but you put it in a place in your
head and once you practice that enough, you start to be able to do it with other stuff
and move forward in a direction that many can't.
How did you learn to control that part of your brain that's just cycling through those
scenarios that are designed to get you out of the situation because I've been in a lot
of those situations.
I've spent a lot of time in the ocean whether it be diving or sailing or surfing where I've
been in like hairy situations that I really wanted to get out of, and I know what you're
talking about.
I know my mind has been there before.
How I mean spending hours and hours in the ocean like that, there must be some sort of
evolution of your way of thinking, spending that much time in the water.
How did you learn to control that?
Through repeated exposures, and I do a little bit of homework before and you have a look
at what the odds are.
Is it likely that if I swim for that many hours in that body of water that I'm going
to attack, and it's always highly, highly unlikely, but not impossible, and it's that
little thing as humans can't let go of, that chance.
If you drive two miles down the road, you don't think what are the odds of me getting
killed on this trip.
It's possible.
But you're still going to do it.
You visit something you do every day, and I put it in the same place really.
Maybe it's a little bit more extreme.
Let me tell you this story.
I think I control it really well, and I do.
I'm right up there with the top.
However, when I'm swimming, you've got to find a very clear zone in your head, because
sometimes I'm doing great distances, and it's 10, 12, 13, 14 hours swims, nonstop in the
cold, and you've got to go into a certain zone in your mind to be able to handle that,
because you're not there to worry about shocks, you're there to worry about your body and
pacing yourself and making sure you get to the other side.
Everything else that stings you and that scares you is a byproduct.
So I put it to the side, but every now and then my hand will hit a jellyfish or hit a
piece of kelp, and the reaction to that inside my body is a jolt.
It's like an electric shock, and that's when you realize you're just harboring that fear
just slightly left of center, so it's not front to brain anymore.
It's just to the side, but it's still there.
But I'm not aware of it while I'm swimming.
I go into a zone and I separate myself from it, but it comes rushing back when you bump
that object.
Right, right, right, I know what you're talking about.
What is the longest swim you've ever done?
At this point, it's the English Channel, so it took me just short of 13 hours to get
across, but I had very rough conditions and it should have been a bit shorter than that.
13 hours.
Yeah, 12 hours and 54 minutes.
Nonstop?
Nonstop, yeah.
Jesus, you don't stop to get water or anything like that?
You just have to drink water, right?
So you've got a support boat and you will stop on whatever your greed, feed schedule
is.
So every 30 minutes, I will stop and they will throw me a carb drink because the one thing
you know about the English Channel, I'm sure your listeners are familiar with carboloading.
Any athlete is, you eat as much pasta, whatever, to get as much carbs and to fill the tank
up.
Now on an English Channel swim in cold water, which turned out my day to be extremely rough
as well, there is no way you can carboload enough to get you across.
So at some stage, your tank is going to run dry.
You drink carb drinks all the way through, but again, you deplete more than you can
possibly put in.
So you're going to hit the wall, but you do feed, we call it feed, but it's mostly liquids
that you take in.
Right.
So it's not like I swim 13 hours without stopping or having a drink.
You get, a lot of people don't realize that you still need to drink, hydrate when you're
swimming.
But you don't get out of the water.
No, no, you're not allowed to attach anything that helps you.
Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ.
So you start clear of the water.
So your ankles must be outside of the water and then you swim in terms of the English
Channel.
You start in Dover and then you swim all the way across to France and then you got to clear
the water.
Once your ankles are clear of the water, your swim stops.
What do you wear when you do these swims?
A Speedo.
Is that a brand here?
I'm sure it is.
Yeah.
Speedo, one silicone cap and goggles.
That's it.
That's it.
You're not even allowed to wear one of these GPS watches or you're not allowed to wear
those aqua music things in your ears or anything that helps you.
Is there a benefit to only wearing ... Oh, that's you right there.
Is there a benefit to only wearing a Speedo and a swim cap or would a wetsuit hinder you
at all?
Not hinder.
The opposite.
So there's no benefit in wearing the Speedo.
It's the purest side of the sport.
So a challenge like the English Channel, it's pretty much ... As a crow flies, it's about
35 kilometers, but you're going to swim about 40, 41 self-propelled on the day.
That is obviously a huge challenge in itself, but anyone can get that level of fitness if
you're dedicated enough and you put in the hours.
But the real challenge of that and that Robin Island swim and most of the cold water swims,
the challenge is the cold.
So the challenge is performing when your mind is screaming at you that you're on your way
out and that's the real challenge.
So if you put on a wetsuit, it takes that all away.
Plus a wetsuit gives you buoyancy, so you sit a little higher and it reduces the drag.
So your times increase a lot on ... So wetsuits are a huge help.
Let's put it that way.
Did you start out just like sitting in cold tubs at all or did you just dive right ... Did
you jump straight into ultra marathons in ice cold water?
No, definitely started slowly.
So as I said, in Cape Town, the water's cold.
So you start with a level of cold and that triggered my fascination with the mental process
of handling the cold.
And once I'd done everything in and around Cape Town, I looked a little bit further to
see where else I could swim.
In fact, my first international trip for the cold was to Alaska.
There's an island called the Penoch Island there where most of the locals do the swim
around an island annually.
I think it's about a 12 kilometer circumference and the water's around about 12 degrees Celsius
as well.
So I have to get my cheat sheet for Fahrenheit, do the conversions.
And I think many of the locals do it in wetsuits.
So we went to see if we could do it in our speedos and learn a lot about yourself.
And then slowly, but surely I've worked my way to Siberia and then ultimately Antarctica.
I think I heard somewhere that swimming is the most taxing type of cardio exercise that
you can do because your body is unable to sweat.
You're unable to perspire in the water.
So it actually takes the most out of your body than anything else.
Well, I've never heard that, to be honest, because I think you do sweat, although you
don't.
Yeah.
Well, that's why you have to hydrate.
A lot of people think you're in water, so you don't have to drink water, which doesn't
make a lot of sense.
Even though it's cold water, you are physically exerting quite tactically.
Swimming's a difficult sport, especially when if you take water that's absolutely flat
like a mirror, swimming can be strenuous.
But you really get that.
So generally, there's even a small wind that whips the water up, even a foot of chop or
a foot of chop, and that totally changes your swim.
Because now you're not just self-propelling, you have to use muscles to keep yourself stable
as well, stabilizers.
So you've got to train all of that as well.
So that uses great exertion.
Have you ever read David Goggins' book?
No.
Which one?
I forget what it's called.
I think it's his latest book.
I listen to the audio version.
He basically tells his story of how he did Bud's Navy Seal, the underwater demolition
training course.
That's why it's in my head.
Someone recommended it to me the other day.
It reminds me a lot of what you do.
He talks about, because he failed it, I think twice because of fractures in his legs.
He had splinter spider cracks in his leg bones, and he had to go back and do it, and he talks
about how they have to tread water for 30 minutes, and that must be a breeze for someone
like you.
I do it in my pool every once in a while.
I'll try to doggie paddle for 15 minutes, and I'm completely exhausted after doggie
paddling for 15 minutes.
It takes the life out of me, 100%.
It is very strenuous, but you can train for that, like anything else.
You can, and I'm very well trained for that.
I'm a fit swimmer.
I keep myself very swimming fit, and that takes a lot of work and a lot of dedication,
a lot of hours, mostly in the swimming pool, but you also got to get out there in the open
ocean.
When you're not, when you're preparing for one of these long swims, do you daily go get
into ice water?
Is that a daily ritual for you, or part of your daily routine?
If I could, I would, but it's not that practical.
I live in Africa, it's hot, and we don't have a lot of ice water.
We've got cold water in the ocean, but when I've done, you know, I've actually graduated
to doing stuff in the real cold, so 40 degrees Fahrenheit and below, and that's where things
get hyper ultra extreme.
When I'm doing a challenge like that, then I will make sure I'm very fit, and I will
have lots of cold exposures, cold as I can find it, and then what I do is I go to our
local fishery, and they have lots of ice, and they fill up a big tub for me.
They fill it with ice and water, and we bring that water down to zero degrees Celsius, what's
that, about 30, 32 Fahrenheit, just before water freezes at that point, and I get into
my speedo and I sit in that, and I'll do that not every day, because it's quite a process
to get permission and get that all set up, but I do that a few times, and I'll talk you
through why I do that, by the way, if you want to know.
Yeah, I mean, I've done it before myself, like, not getting into ice, but like, I'll
do it in the winter here, I will get into my pool, and it gets to like, maybe 60 degrees
at the coldest, and before I get in, that is the most difficult mental aspect of it,
is just getting your body in there, like, neck deep, in a 60 degree pool, it's fucking
difficult.
It is.
Like, explain how you get through that, and also go ahead and explain why you...
Yeah, so it never gets easier, there's the bad news, it's always gonna hurt, and there
are a couple of tricks of the trade that I can share with you guys, but you just, listen,
I literally have a conversation with myself, I know that sounds silly, but before I expose
this to the real cold, I mean, the 60 degrees Fahrenheit and that, that's a bit of a breeze,
you know?
Yeah, for you.
For me, I'm very used to that, it still hurts, still get the ice cream headache and all of
the things that everyone else will, but you know, I'm so conditioned now to know that
it's just temporary, and that disappears, and you'll be comfortable in five minutes,
so, you know, man up and get through it.
But when you start getting into the lower levels, it becomes really brutal, and one
of the reasons I do those ice buckets, ice baths, as most people call them, is because
there's quite a process that happens, I mentioned earlier, you know, your mind is
this defense mechanism, so you throw yourself in there, and it goes into overdrive, so this
pain, panic, and fear that come together in a split second that accentuates self-doubt
and you deny the ability of rational thought and the hyperventilation, all of that happens,
and while that is happening in your head, your body starts implementing its own defense
mechanisms, and that is the blood rushes from your extremities to your center core, and
it's not just fingers and toes, it's arms and biceps and thighs and everything, all
the blood rushes out of those muscles to sit here in your center core, because, I mean,
I'm no doctor or medical dude, but you can live without arms and legs, but you can't
live without a heart pumping blood to the brain, so all the blood rushes in here to
keep your heart warm enough to keep supplying your brain with blood, so you lose all coordination
and strength in your muscles because there's no blood supplying oxygen to those muscles,
and that is a process I need to understand and I need to figure out, so for example,
when I took on a challenge in Antarctica to try and be the first in the world to do an
official mile south of the Antarctic Circle, I would sit in there and I would have to compute
that I'm going to be feeling all of this, but as you sit in that ice tub, it's brutal,
it's absolutely brutal and it hurts, it's excruciating pain, and through that pain,
I've got to actually calm myself and say, well, you're going to be walking down the
gangway of an ocean liner in Antarctica in ten days, Ryan, you're going to be diving
into water that's as cold as what you're sitting in, and you're going to try and swim
a mile distance.
How on earth are you going to overcome the massive instincts that are going to kick in,
the hyperventilation, that pain, panic, and fear, that petrifiedness, you're going to
be scared, everything is going to just try and get you out, how are you going to not
sprint the first 200 meters out of sheer adrenaline and panic, and then not have enough energy
to do the 1,400 meters thereafter.
All of these things, I've got to try and visualise while I'm sitting in that horrible tub of ice,
so that's why it's a very important part of the process for me, but I don't do it every
day and life wouldn't be worth living if I did, it's terrible.
Have you noticed any sort of differences in your health or anything like that, since
you started doing this and spending more time in cold water, does it benefit you in
everyday life at all?
So there's a massive global movement, I'm sure you're aware of that the cold has got
it.
Oh yeah, everyone on my Instagram feed is showing off how they get into ice tubs.
Yeah, you know what, I look at those and I think I wish I'd love them to come and do
an ice tub with me, because so many people, so we're going left of sent here, but so many
fill it up with water and throw some ice to cover the top layer and they jump in and
it's probably brought down a few degrees, but you have to do an ice tub properly, because
of course when you get in as a human, immediately you start warming that water up, so you've
got to keep adding ice, because if you're in the ocean, you're not going to warm the
ocean up, it's going to keep cooling you down.
So you're also about the health benefits, there's definitely health benefits to the
cold, I'm sure everyone's heard of the Wim Hof method and all these things which are
taking on big time, I'm certainly not criticising them, but I just don't know a lot about it.
What I do, I don't think there's any health benefit to this, I've been pushing boundaries,
so to the end of the degree, certainly a mental health benefit.
Yeah, so let me tell you about the process and why I think everybody comes back and thinks
it's such a great health benefit, and I'm not saying there isn't, so don't get me wrong.
The most dangerous part of any extreme cold swim is not while you're swimming, it's actually
when you get out, and that is because there's a process called the after drop.
So now you've done your swim, you've gone through the pain in the beginning, you've
got through that pain, you feel good about yourself, you've now sat in the water for
a little bit or you've had your swim, you then get out and you feel great for a little
bit, and then all of a sudden that warm blood that's now sitting in your centre core protecting
your heart starts to release and it goes back to your extremities, okay, so it goes
back to your fingers and toes and whatever, and now they've frigid because they've had
no blood in them and they've been exposed to the cold.
So that warm blood that was in your core rapidly cools down and it circulates back to your
centre core and cools your core temperature down, it's called the after drop, so after
swim drop, and that core temperature just keeps coming down.
Now it's not that dangerous to most people doing sort of mildly cold swims and enjoying
it a little bit, but what we do, it's a deadly process because if you drop one notch below
your conctroller, if you drop one notch below you're dead, finished, that's just how it
is, hypothermia is an absolute killer.
Oh, that's what hypothermia is.
Yeah, that's hypothermia.
And when you do a, at some point, presuming you don't die, which clearly we do a lot to
make sure we don't, you then turn, what we talk, turning the corner, so you go back
into and you start shivering, okay, and shivering is good because it means you're on the app.
And when you turn that corner and you slowly start getting some warmth back in your blood
and your bones, it releases in dolphins like you won't believe, and I've never done drugs
so I don't know, but I presume it's like being on a high, it must be what it's like.
Someone, when I gave a keynote yesterday, someone said, trust me, drugs are a lot easier.
To feel the high.
Yeah.
There's a lot easier ways to get the high.
To get the high.
I wouldn't know, so I'll stick to the cold, but I think when you feel that and you realise
just how euphoric that feeling is, because when I do the cold swims, I always come out
saying, well, that's it, finished, and I'm more intelligent than this, I'm not doing
that again.
That was horrific.
And then suddenly I come out of that after drop and I'm, I turn the corner and I'm like,
wow, what's next?
That was awesome.
And it's just an endorphin release that just makes you feel so great about life.
That's why it's treating depression and it's treating anxiety and all of these things.
You just feel so good about yourself.
Yeah.
There is no better feeling.
I'm aware of the feeling just surfing in like really cold water for hours on end and
then getting out and warming up and feeling that kind of like zero drag type feeling.
It's like there's nothing holding you back.
You're just kind of like moving against like without gravity almost.
So you've got a good taste of what it's about.
Yeah.
And then, but when I do it in tub or like in my pool, I start, I have to get out once
like I start to feel the pins and needles in my head and in my face.
It's different.
It's when you're out in the ocean, like for me, for surfing, it's like, it's different
because I'm not thinking about the elements because I'm having so much fun like doing
something else.
My mind is distracted.
I'm distracted.
Exactly.
But when you're in the pool, it's like, well, you could hit the escape button just by moving
two feet to the right or just climbing right out.
It's like right there.
So it's way more difficult and it feels more painful too.
But you've hit the nail on the head.
The distraction thing.
I talk quite a lot about that because, you know, if you're not distracted and you walk
into really cold water, it's excruciating and that's all you think of.
And I learned this, there's a beach called Camps Bay down in Cape Town and it's often
really flat and you just walk in.
But every now and then there's a set of waves that are coming through that dump and they
can really hurt you if you get your timing wrong.
And every time I go swim there and there are no waves, I find it excruciatingly hard to
get in that water.
You go through all the pain.
But every time there are waves, suddenly I'm swimming and I've forgotten all about the
cold and the pain and hardly notice it.
And I started to put all those things together and the pain's still there, but you just focused
on something else.
You were focused on not getting dumped by the waves.
So what happened to that pain?
What happened to all those negative emotions and sentiments and squealing and everything
that you do?
So that's always been fascinating to me and I've looked quite deeply into that.
When you swim through Giant Surf, do you swim under the waves or do you swim over them?
I go under.
I would imagine that.
I don't ever surfboard or anything so I just keep low.
Do you surf ever when you're in Africa?
Not at the moment.
I used to as a youngster, as we say in South Africa.
In Cape Town?
Cape Town, yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
I ran out of time really.
Okay, too busy.
Too busy.
Too busy swimming.
Oh, swimming.
Okay.
Yeah.
I don't have time for anything else, but it's a fantastic sport.
In fact, I did it again the other day, I hired a board and went down to Musenburg.
Have you heard of False Bay?
So False Bay is a body of water in Cape Town that is well known as one of the most dangerous
places to swim.
It's where our great white attacks have happened.
Not that many, so I don't want to like, blow it out the water, but that's known as a feeding
ground for the great white shock in a big way.
And that's where I do my surf, when I was a surfer, did my surfing.
But to the point, that's a 34 kilometer cross body of water, so to swim right across it.
And I last year, made it a goal to try and swim that 34 kilometers across, but in a direction.
So five people had done it before, but in a different direction.
Really?
And I tried to swim the other way around and got it right and got a Guinness World Record
foot as well.
That's crazy, man.
That is wild.
And that's actually making, not the Guinness World Record part, but the actual swim was
a product of an amazing journey for me.
And it was a product of a failure.
And it's actually a keynote I give now called Failing Forward, where in my swimming career,
I started small and then I tried something bigger and I succeeded and I tried something
bigger and I succeeded and then I tried it bigger and bigger and I kept succeeding and
succeeding and succeeding.
And then all of a sudden, I tried to swim, which was from Ireland to Scotland across
the North Channel and it kicked me in the back properly.
I got something called SIP, which is swimming induced pulmonary edema, where your lungs fill
up with water and you don't even know it and you're basically drowning.
And I was getting this while I was swimming and I very nearly drowned.
But it was my own fault to a degree in that, let me give you a little bit of a hard work
if you're interested in this.
Oh, yeah.
So when you're going to do a swim like the North Channel, so that's also 35 kilometers
across, it is 12 degrees Celsius.
Where is this North Channel again?
That's between Ireland and Scotland.
So far, Northern Ireland.
Ireland and Scotland.
Okay.
So you're gonna try and swim just from Ireland to Scotland.
Jesus.
And it's about 35 kilometers, but it's very cold water and again, no wetsuits or anything
like that.
And it's meant to be one of the toughest swims.
I've done tougher, but this is a real tough one.
What makes it so tough?
Just the distance?
The distance and the cold.
And the currents that move in between, they're massive.
So you have to get your timing right on tides.
So there's only a certain tidal cycle that you can actually humanly give it a go.
And that you rely on people to help you with.
I booked that with a guy who knows the channel and has expertise in taking swimmers across.
He tells me maybe two years in advance, the tide I'm gonna swim on.
And I've got one week, I've got to fly from South Africa to Ireland where you're based.
And I've got one week to make it across that body of water.
And if the weather doesn't play ball in that one week, and that one week selected on tides,
so of tide variance, if the weather doesn't play ball for those seven days, you go home,
finish.
It's kind of like summiting Everest.
If the weather's terrible and you're only 100 meters from the summit.
How does he know two years in advance?
Because the tides are predictable.
The weather's not.
Okay.
So the weather's your gamble.
So you can tell me, I know exactly what tide's gonna happen between the first and the seventh
of August.
So that's your slot.
So I arrive there, and then I've got to wait for a nice day to happen in that slot.
And if there's no nice day, weather-wise, then I'm in trouble.
And of course, Murphy's Law for me, there was no nice day.
So it was, hey, thanks for coming to Ireland at great cost and trepidation and training
to get yourself there, but you might as well go home because the weather's not cool.
But being me and being a little bit arrogant at the time, and I had had all these successes
and successes, I was the guy who always succeeded.
I'm the guy who figures it out, and no matter what the ocean throws at me out there, I'll
figure it out and I'll get across.
And I managed to convince the guys to let me have a go on a day that they would not
have taken anyone.
And they knew my reputation, so they were okay to do it.
And it wasn't the roughest day in the world, to be honest.
So that's another thing I must just disclaim here.
A swimmer looks at water very differently.
So what looks maybe quite benign to most people as a swimmer, you'll be looking at her going
that is terrible to swim in.
So even just a big rolling swells are okay, where some people go, oh, that's rough.
But a swimmer looks at the chop and the sort of washing machine kind of effect, there's
no uniformity to it.
So you just cannot get into any rhythm for 12, 13 hours, that's brutally hard.
And I was out there in that kind of weather, and it was very cold water.
I think about, we get this right, probably about 50 degrees, what's 12 degrees Celsius.
I should have brought that cheat sheet, dammit.
And I was six and a half hours in to the swim, and I was doing really well, and I was getting
all the thumbs up from the support crew.
And all of a sudden, they stopped me at a scheduled feed, so on the half hour mark.
And they said, I need more from you, which is very unusual for me to be told I need more.
And in other words, I need you to speed up, you're slowing down, because they track you
on the currents, and you've got to get to certain points before the tide changes, otherwise
you get washed out to ocean, so you've got to make it across, so they needed me to up
my pace.
And I remember thinking that's a little bit weird, because I'm swimming hard, and I've
been getting all the thumbs up, I haven't changed anything.
So I tried to pull harder, and I just couldn't grip the water, it was just the most bizarre
feeling.
I'm trained to understand hypothermia, I'm trained to feel shit for a long time, and
perform under those conditions.
So I was feeling shit, as I expected to.
And I just remember having absolutely no power in my arms, I could not pull, I could not
give the guy what he needed more.
And then they stopped me again, and there's no kind of gentle love on these boats.
So there's no like, oh dear, won't you try and push a little harder.
It's like, do you want to go to Scotland, or back to fucking South Africa?
You make a decision, give me more.
And it kind of hits you, and I tried and I tried, but eventually all of a sudden everything
just went black, and my eyes went totally fuzzy, I couldn't see.
And I took my goggles off, apparently I don't remember this part, and I swam away from the
boat.
And obviously the crew realized there's something proper wrong there, and they pulled me out.
And I can't remember getting into the boat or any of that, but I remember suddenly being
in the boat, and like, am I still swimming, or what's going on, and being very dazed.
And then I heard what could only be described as a death rattle, you know, like a rasping
sound.
That sounded like it was inside my head, but what it was was my lungs had filled up with
water.
So I was drowning.
I got this swimming-induced pulmonary edema, a sip, and the water threw a whole series
of things that we unpacked later.
My lungs had kind of allowed water to come in.
I'd also, in the rough water, I'd drunk a lot of salt water as well, which also the
salt then upsets the balance in your chemical makeup.
So I was drowning.
How did the water get in your lungs?
Just because the waves were splashing over me, and I was...
You were inhaling it.
And yeah, sorry, no, that's not how it got in my lungs, that's how it got in my stomach.
But what, I don't want to get too technical here, but you've got a layer over your lungs,
which is impermeable, so it doesn't allow water in, it only allows out.
But when there's a chemical imbalance, the way I understand it, when something goes wrong
in your body, that gets disrupted and allows moisture to seep in.
And I'm taking in a lot of moisture, so I suppose I've got all this salt water in me
and various other things, lack of sleep, and there was a lot in hyperthermia and everything.
It's just not comfortable.
And slowly it was drowning me.
I was inches away from death.
And that was...
I can't remember why I started telling you this story.
I've gotten totally left of centre, but anyway, that was a huge failure for me.
It was a massive kick in the pants that...
Yeah, I was talking about the failing Ford Keynote, and that being me, we got the coast
got out, I don't know, they got oxygen on my face, and they saved my life, and I went
to hospital, and there I was sitting.
They got a helicopter out there?
Yeah, and they came out in a...
We were about...
I'd swam 20 kilometres, so we were 20km off the Irish coast, so they could get out there
quite quickly.
They were already on the water, thankfully.
And they carry oxygen, so they got it on my face, and then they suited me back to the
harbour where there's an ambulance waiting and got me to Donagadie Hospital, fun place.
And the doctors didn't explain, because I was quite belligerent, tough on bulletproof.
Now that the oxygen was in my brain, I could start to compute that I'd failed to swim.
I was brutally unhappy, brutally unhappy.
But being me, being the guy who had never failed before, I didn't know how to process
failure.
I didn't know...
I did what guys do, or what I think guys do, is I swept it under the carpet, and instead
of processing what actually went on there and what my role was in that, I pointed fingers
at everything else, and I set a bigger goal.
That's why I was telling the story, because that bigger goal was to try and swim across
Falsbay in South Africa with the sharky water, which I knew was something that was going
to really mess with my mind, and that's why I wanted to take that on.
And yeah, that took me three years to get to that Falsbay start, and the reason it took
me so long was purely because I did not manage that failure well at all.
I took no accountability, I did not go introspective on it, I did not acknowledge my role in it.
For three years, I set the goal, I trained my ass off for it, I spoke a big game, and
everyone was waiting for me to do it, I had the team set up, but psychologically in the
back of my head, I just couldn't find that starting line.
Couldn't.
So you still to this day, did you figure out what it was that caused that?
What could you have done differently to avoid getting all that water in your lungs?
So there's nothing conclusive, however, I could have been less belligerent and taken
the pain of not swimming in my week and coming back the following year, number one, could
not have pushed them as hard to have me swim on a day that they as the experts suggest
I don't swim.
I had to meet in the harbor at 3am in the pouring rain in the freezing cold, and because
I wasn't going to swim, but right at the last minute they said, okay, you've badgered
us enough, we'll let you swim.
I wasn't totally prepared, so I then had to spend, there's a lot, you think of swimming,
you just take your speedo and your cap and a towel, it's not how it works, I mean you
can be swimming for in this case 12 to 14 hours in cold water, you need a lot on the
boat to make sure that you're going to make it across.
So I spent probably until like 10, 11pm preparing, and then getting into bed, and then trying
to work on my head space was very important that you're in the right mindset before you
stand on that shore, and then you want to get a good night's sleep, but when you've
only got two hours to sleep before your alarm clock goes off, what happens, you don't sleep,
you're waiting for your alarm clock, and then off I went, and so there was a whole combination
of stuff, plus there's some medications as well, which I don't tell a lot of people this
by the way, but I'll share it with you, is that I have a heart condition, so I have actually,
I have three stainless steel stents in my heart keeping me going, which was something
that also impacted my psychology a little fairly recently, but I'm on medication for
that, so that also impacts.
How did it affect your psychology?
Well, do you think about it?
I think about it every day, you can't, so I was at a training session at the tender
age of 39, 39, 39, and I was at my normal training session, did a hectic time, and right
at the end of the session, I was doing a cool down, so you just get to 20 laps just to kind
of bring your heart rate down, and I just had this unbelievable pain in my chest, and
I could actually feel myself sweating in the water, I could feel everything getting hot
and flustered, and I don't know what it was, I just thought I'd...
Training in the ocean or pool?
No, in a pool, with a coach and other people on a Saturday morning, so kind of a social
vibe, but you train hard, and I remember thinking, well, I'm not going to stop as I miss this
work, but I think it felt like air-trapped or some pressure in my chest, I don't know
what it was, and I carried on, I finished doing the swim, and then I climbed out, and
I was sitting on the side of the pool, and people were chatting to me, but even though
I'm dripping wet, I can still feel sweat coming through, and I just remember thinking, that's
really bizarre and a horrible feeling, and then the pain subsided and everything was
fine, didn't bother telling anyone, got in my car, and I was driving home, and I just
felt it just like a vooah, like this pain in my chest, right in the dead center, and
all the sweat and the pain down my arm, and I just realized there's something seriously
wrong, still not knowing hot, because I'm super fit, super healthy, 39-year-old, didn't
make any sense, and I remember having to make a decision, I think I'm going to pull over
on the side of the road and die in my car, or I'm going to make it home, so I decided
I'm going to really push and get home, and long story short, I got home, and my wife
at the time, I'm not divorced, I told her this story saying something weird happened,
and she could see I looked a bit beshevelled, and she enforced me to go to the doctor, which
I reluctantly didn't want to do, but thankfully I did, and through her whole sort of extended
story, they diagnosed that I had these arteries that were about to block off, and it was a
heart attack, I never had a heart attack, I had the full-on angina, so I had days, weeks
before the full-on heart attack came, so the arteries were really closed, then they put
the stents in those arteries to open them up again, and you ask me why that affects you
psychologically, it's a massive psychological blow, when you think you're bulletproof, when
you're on the app and you're doing stuff that you've got all these plans, my swimming
career just started, and I had plans to really push my limits, and all of a sudden your body
says no, and everyone, and your doctors, and all your family, and everyone's like, well,
we're glad you're still with us, but your swimming days are over, now you just stay
at home, dad, and that just was so impactful to me personally, it was terrible, so besides
the, I suppose, humiliation and, you know, belittlement that comes with it, also, now,
when I do, when I did go back to swimming training, like two days later, gently, every
little niggle and little pain still to this day, nine years later, I still, you react
differently, because now I know I have a problem, and I know it could trigger at some stage,
and I mean, I'm normal, the stents have fixed it, but it just impacts you, so you feel maybe
far more vulnerable than I would before.
Did you have any sort of, like, history of this in your family, or did they say it was
because of, because of your lifestyle, or what, what did they say could have been the
reason for it?
The, 100% hereditary, hereditary, yeah, so my lifestyle's good, never smoked, I enjoy
a beer, gloss of wine, make no mistake, but I'm fit as a fiddle, active, and generally
a very healthy lifestyle, my dad had some problems, he's still with us, so he's fine,
he had a heart disease, and I got that clearly through that line.
What do you have to do, like, how long do you train before one of these swims?
Excuse me, again, how long is a piece of string, really, so to, you take something like the
English Channel, or the False Base Swim, or the North Channel Swim, or one of these
longer, cold marathon swims, there's a whole different training regime to trying, for example,
to do a mile in ice water, and ice water we classify from 41 degrees and below, 5 degrees
Celsius.
So before you do a really long swim in really cold water, do you have to change your diet
at all beforehand?
You need to put on weight, so the more weight you have, the more insulation you carry, and
it takes, and it makes a huge difference.
How do you put on weight?
What kind of nutrients?
What do you eat?
I'm not very scientific about it, I wish I was, you know.
Is it more carbs, more fat?
Yeah, I eat more carbs, really.
And I'm not necessarily a huge believer in carbs, it's just they're the most accessible
and the easiest way to put on weight.
From what I do, I'm really not the right physique for it.
If you saw me now, maybe you'd disagree, but I'm generally not the right physique for
cold water swimming.
If you look at most cold water swimmers, they are very large units.
Yeah, I'm not, and that means I'm at a greater disadvantage.
They have a lot of fat on them.
A lot of people have a lot of fat, yeah, and that plays a huge role.
I mean, I'm sure it does.
Fat is supposed to be one of the best sources of energy, and it's also very buoyant, so
I imagine it just makes it way easier.
You're buoyant, but from a cold perspective, it keeps the cold out for longer.
Right.
Have you tried, or experimented, thought maybe about transitioning and getting more fat
on you?
Yeah, so before big swim, I often try and bulk up a little bit.
You don't do the opposite, but it's sometimes a bit of a push and pull, because you're eating
more, but you're training so hard, so you're losing more, and up until recently, I lose
weight really quickly.
Now that I'm getting a bit older, it's getting a darn side hotter, but I've got to readjust
to that.
But I would be eating a lot and training more, and it's very hard to put on weight.
I was told to put on six or eight kilograms before going to English Channel, and I think
I managed to put on two or three.
Wow.
Yeah, and I got cold properly.
Jesus.
So before you do a big swim like that, you would just gorge on food.
You would need a massive fatty steak or something.
I absolutely love food, so it's a great sport for me to justify.
I do, for example, I'll go and do a 20 kilometer pool training set, which is horrible and brutal
and takes about seven hours and laps backwards and forwards.
And the thing that will get me to the end is the burger I'm going to eat afterwards.
I'm fantastic.
Really?
Fantastic.
And funnily enough, in fact, I went in great detail in my book about it.
On the English Channel, I got to a point where my nose got blocked because there's
quite a lot of ship diesel and stuff in the water, and the salt impacts my sinuses.
So my sinuses were completely blocked.
Plus, the weather went really fast.
So I've got big waves, and now you've got to try and picture.
You've been swimming, let's just say, at this stage for 10 hours, so you're tired, you're
freezing cold, it's getting dark, and now you've been drinking liquids, but now you
want to eat, like, I have like little marshmallows or a grape or a little piece of chocolate
or something that you throw down, and that gets thrown to me in the water in a tap away.
So now, picture of swimming, holding a tap away with one hand, taking the lid off and
then having to pick stuff out with the other.
Now both your hands are above the water, right?
Right.
You're not trading water, but you've got waves coming over you, so you've got to try
and get high.
The higher you get, the harder it is, the more energy.
So when you've been swimming for 10 hours, it's just not great.
One kicks it.
So what was happening, I take that tap away, and I shove it all into my mouth, and it runs,
but then just like dump it in.
Dump it in, but now my mouth's full, my nose is blocked, now I can't breathe, so then
I have to spit it all out.
So these are the things you can't train for, and you've got to get through in.
So all of a sudden, I'm in a place where I can no longer eat any solids.
I can still drink, but no solids.
And solids were part of what I had planned for two years on this particular swim.
So I had five more hours to swim, not okay, wait, we're talking 10, so I had like three
more hours to swim, not knowing I had three more hours to swim, but I got through the
last three or four hours of that swim fantasizing, because I couldn't eat, fantasizing about
what I knew, because I'm cold and hungry.
I knew I was in that boat, and if I made it, and I got back on that boat, because you don't
then stay in France, you go back to England, I was going to eat absolutely everything on
that boat, and true to form, I did make it, and I did get on that ship, and I remember
the English crew, I said to them, bring that roast chicken, bring that thing, I'm going
to kill it.
And he said, no, I'm going to bring you the vomit bucket.
I said, no, don't worry.
Trust me, I do not need to vomit.
Just bring me the food.
So he brought me the food and the vomit bucket.
Because he knew you were going to throw up.
And yeah, five minutes later, I was vomiting up a storm.
Does that make it easier thinking about the food at the end than having like, does it
give you some sort of like, like dopamine drip to keep you alive?
You know, each to their own, but you need to incentivize yourself.
So whatever works for you, for me, that was part of it, was actually fantasizing about
what I can eat and how many calories I've burnt on this, and I don't care anymore anyway.
So you know, my strategy for something like a channel and for other big swims, long swims
where you really, it's just you and the water, you know, there's no one to talk to, no music
to listen to, no, nothing, you are just there by yourself.
Yes, there's a support boat, but you can't talk to them unless you stop and you don't
want to stop in cold water swimming.
You don't want to stop.
So you have to stop and feed, but you drink and go never longer than 30 seconds.
Okay.
So it's not like you can have a conversation.
So you spend a lot of time in your own head.
And when you're in your own head in cold water, all you feel is discomfort.
All you feel is negativity.
All you feel is your hunger.
All you feel is that the things you want and lack, right?
So if you let that get the better of you, which it's very easy to do because the element
of cold again, makes you this excuse magnet.
That's a term that you might not understand, but when you're in a hostile environment or
uncomfortable environment, you want to get out of it.
And if you get out of that uncomfortable environment, in my case, that's failure.
So I start becoming an excuse magnet.
How can I fail?
And it won't be my fault.
Like I mentioned that.
Right.
Let's see a shock thing.
And then they'll put me.
All of this kind of snowballs in your head.
So my strategy, which is a very rehearsed mental strategy, was to promise myself that I'll
have no negative thoughts whatsoever.
And when something horrible happens, like I swim into a jellyfish or a blue bottle and
it stings me and it hurts, I need to laugh about it, physically laugh out loud under
the water.
And even though I'm cursing deep down, just to keep those endorphins and keep those positive
and when you take a breath and a wave hits you and you gulp down another mouthful of
disgusting seawater and laugh about it, say, yes, this is what you say before, buddy.
And it's just a mental way that I keep myself tough in the swim and maybe positive.
Do you ever look or look into or read about different types of breathing while you're
swimming?
For instance, I read that book called, I think it's called Breathe or Breath.
All about breathing.
It talks about endurance, breathing through your nose basically gives you way more, you
know, way more cardio endurance and makes you go longer than if breathing through your
mouth.
But it's hard in the water knowing from surfing and I try to focus on it when I'm surfing
or when I'm trying to paddle out through a really long line up and there's big waves
trying to do it through my nose and it's extremely difficult because you've got water splashing
everywhere.
Have you ever tried to focus on that while you're swimming?
It's impossible to breathe through your nose.
It's impossible.
So you meant to breathe in through your mouth and out through your nose.
Right.
Okay, that's kind of the accepted and that's pretty much what I do, but I get such reaction
to salt water.
So often my nose is closed, I get sinus.
So my breathing is really bad, but I do believe that breathing plays a big role.
But as you suggest, it's nearly impossible to practice a certain breathing regime.
I mean, there are ways of, you know, you breathe in through a closed mouth and suck
in like that or you, there's different, some for energy, some for calm, some for stress.
There's lots of different breathing techniques that I've read about.
None of them you can do in the water if you're swimming unless you stop and do that.
That's not going to happen in the cold.
Unless you're maybe doing the backstroke.
Have you ever done the backstroke when you were swimming?
No.
You never tried?
No.
Why not?
Listen, I don't like the backstroke.
No.
I'm very trained to do, to do.
Look, you want to, some people do breaststroke, it just blows my mind, but, so you only do
freestyle?
I do freestyle.
Okay.
That's the fastest and generally the mindset is to get across in the least amount of time.
Backstroke is not efficient.
Not for me anyway.
Yeah, but like to take a quick break, like, let me do backstroke for five minutes.
So, okay.
So that, that's it.
I'm talking about traditional backstroke.
So one of my techniques is, so if I'm doing, I mean, we, we're talking about the English
channel a lot.
I've done a lot more than the English channel, but anyway, let's use that as a nice point
to reference.
So when, when I'm feeding some of the psychology that you apply, I'm going to do probably about
22 feeds.
So in other words, they're going to stop me, they're going to hand me a drink bottle
or something to eat or whatever.
And I've got 30 seconds, usually maybe a minute tops to put that away before I need to get
going again.
So I never tread water and consume.
I get on my back and almost, I don't know, I can demonstrate it on a podcast, but you,
you kind of kick, breaststroke, kick on your back while I'm drinking and eating.
So even in those 30 seconds, I've still moved maybe 20, 30 meters further towards my destination.
And then I get going again.
So I do do an element of backstroke, but it's certainly not my preferred means of propulsion.
Right.
I would imagine, I would just like thinking about it, I would imagine people would switch
it up just for that kind of a distance and not do, I mean, breaking for, how long did
you say it was again?
You break to eat?
30 seconds.
30 seconds.
Half a minute.
Half a minute.
God, that's insane.
Yeah.
And 20 times.
Approximately.
So every half an hour, over a long attack.
So it took me 13 hours.
So I did approximately 22 stops.
Okay.
Is that right?
Yes.
26 stops.
Somewhere on there.
Didn't you say that you swam in like Siberia somewhere near Russia?
Yeah.
Oh, let me tell you that.
I'll tell you this story.
It's quite interesting.
So through my journey, you know, we've done all the marathon, you get marathon swimming,
which is your English channel and your false ban, your North channel.
And then you get ultra extreme cold.
So through my journey and packing the element of cold and how brutalizes the body and mind,
I sort of obviously get cold and cold and look for cold and cold or water.
And one day coming back from a cold swim somewhere, I think we try to be the first to swim around
the southernmost tip of South America.
Remind me to tell you that story.
Literally, I can write a book about.
We came back and we were trying to, we're getting quite into this cold thing, myself
and a couple of like-minded mates.
And we had a look at where is the body or the book of record that tells you what a cold
swim is and then records different feats in the cold and who's done the furthest and
the hardest.
So we went on the internet and we try to find like where this, where you could find this
and there is no, there's, it didn't exist.
There is no body or book of record that tells you what ice swim is and then records feats
in the cold water.
Because as I've described before, the cold is the challenge.
It's not the distance.
It's keeping your head in the game for the distance while the cold impacts you.
That's the challenge.
And we were sitting in Cape Town, which is on the southern tip of Africa, and it was
a boiling hot day, just kind of like temper for the last week.
Yeah, for real.
And we decided, you know, why don't we start the organization or the body that tells people
what you need to do to do a cold swim and then record different feats in the cold.
And on that day, at least in my mind, the International Ice Swimming Association was
born.
So it's an association.
Really?
Yeah.
It wasn't started by me, it was the idea of another gentleman, but I was a founding
member of it.
And together as a bunch of mates, we said, well, let's tell the world the following.
If you want to say you've done an official ice swim, you have to commit to swimming a
one mile distance, so 1,609 meters.
You have to swim that one mile wearing only a Speedo costume, one cap and goggles, no
wetsuit, no grease, you can't even have a plaster on you.
You've got to cut, you've got to take it off.
Be that pure.
Watch or anything?
No, no.
Yes.
No, take your watch off.
No watch.
You have to swim that one mile in your Speedo in an outdoor body of water, compete indoors,
and that body of water needs to be five degrees Celsius, which is 41 Fahrenheit or below.
You can do one mile in the attire I've described and follow the rules that we set.
You will be recognized by our organization in the International Ice Swimming Association
as having done an official ice mile.
We'll give you a certificate and we'll give you a red jacket and a badge or cool stuff.
And you will go in our book of record as having done this ice mile.
I mean, we kind of, the gentleman who started it takes all the credits and did all the work
to make it an official and we then sent it off into the world to see if we'd get any
bites.
There's a guy out there who actually wants to try this stupid stuff and offered went
and probably about three weeks later, three of the founding members received an invitation
to come and partake in an ice swimming event in a place called Tummin, Siberia.
Okay.
Tummin?
Tummin, T-Y.
You got to pull up the map, Jordan.
T-Y-U-M-E-N.
Okay.
Tummin.
And they were holding an ice swimming event that come across the International Ice Swimming
Association and they wanted to use the good name of the association at their event.
And if we prepared to do that, they would then fly us over and we're allowed to come
to the event, but not to do a mile, to do like a 50 meter or 100 meter dash maximum
400 meters.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm looking at the map.
I haven't seen this place for a long time.
I've got mixed memories.
That's not, that can't be.
Yeah.
It looks like...
Well, that's summer.
Tummin in winter.
Is this...
Are you swimming in a river or in the ocean?
So T-Y-U.
T-Y-U-M-E-N.
Try that.
Tummin.
Tummin.
Yeah.
Someone on there.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Now that's the right spot.
Yeah.
That looks better.
Yeah.
So...
Jesus.
Now pull up like a map view of it.
So there you are.
Quite far north in Russia.
Okay.
Like a...
Like a...
The Northern tip.
Yeah.
Looks cold.
Yeah.
So anyway, we're sitting in Africa and we get this call from them to say, we found your
organization and we're having this ice swimming event and if you want to, we'll fly across
if you let us put your organization name to our event.
And we were like, hell yes, we're going to Siberia.
I couldn't believe that anyone wanted to pay for us to do anything.
And we were equally unanimous though that we're not going from Cape Town all the way
to Siberia to swim a short distance of 50 meter or 100 meter dash, which is what they
were saying we could do.
We were going to come there and swim a mile.
And they weren't happy with that.
But anyway, long story short.
They weren't happy with it.
No.
They said, and yet, not going to happen.
So there was a lot of banter and eventually we compromised on a one kilometer distance,
1000 meters.
And they said, OK, we can try that.
They'll put the medics in place and, you know, we were a bit annoyed about that and there's
a lot of banter and should we go, shouldn't we go eventually, we said, of course we got
to go.
We'll toughen them up a little bit and, you know, just spread the word about our organization.
See Russians.
Yeah.
Russians.
Come on.
And we arrived probably 10 days later in without doing much more homework and we're escorted
to the swimming pools and inverted commas.
And I got off the bus and walked into the teeth of minus 27 Fahrenheit air temperature.
It in the air, the air temperature is minus 27.
Dude, I don't know.
I mean, I live in Africa.
We just do not experience stuff like that.
I knew without a doubt that there was the biggest mistake that I've ever made in my
life to arrive there.
There were no pools.
There was nothing.
There was just absolutely white and everything was powder.
I had two beanies on two gloves on each hand, five layers of clothing and I was absolutely
in agony getting frostbite through that.
It was just insanely cold.
Okay.
And the idea of stripping into.
I want to cry just listening to this.
The idea of stripping into a speeder and jumping in water, which doesn't exist because it's
just ice was impossible, literally impossible.
And they were eventually cutting through the ice with chainsaws to expose this water.
And to add insult to injury, the local media were fascinated by these three men who have
now come from a distant land.
Crazy Africa.
Who have invented the International Ice Swimming Association and who have moaned that they
can not swim a mile and only getting to swim a kilometer.
These guys, camera people wouldn't leave us alone at all, the journalism was just unimaginably
and I'll never forget a very pivotal moment in my life in fact in the story and I include
this in the keynote and in my book was when we broke away from the cameras and the media
and three of us that had gone to Siberia from South Africa, we went and sat in the little
sauna that was provided at this event, a little wooden hut and we barricaded the door closed
from the inside.
So sitting in a sauna, which is boiling hot, five layers of clothing barricaded the door
and there was no of the usual testosterone kind of banter that we get off on.
It was just wide eyes and we could only think of like, how the hell do we get out of dodge?
I mean, this is just, this is just saying, we'll pay back the money, but fuck this, I'm
out of here.
And I honestly believed outside that door if I took off one of my gloves that my fingers
would fall off, it was that brutal.
And that's a fascinating 24 hour mental journey that I went on in Siberia that took me from
absolute certainty that it was suicide, 24 hours later standing on the edge of this pool
of death that they'd now cut out for the chainsaws and we're getting ready to swim a kilometer
in minus 33 or minus 27 Fahrenheit minus 33 Celsius.
And yeah, it was absolutely excruciatingly brutal, but I survived it and got it and got
all the frostbite to prove it and taught me some unbelievable lessons.
How the hell did you swim that far if they, I mean, they weren't able to cut that distance
out with the chainsaws?
Yeah, I'm going to show you the videos.
Yeah.
You have the videos?
Yeah.
Where are they?
Well, on my computer.
Oh, you know, they're not online?
No, there's a lot of them are in my keynote.
Oh.
You'll find bits and pieces.
I'll gladly share with you.
Okay.
Maybe you can cut it into the video.
Yeah, we'll have to cut it in.
I'll just snip it because it's quite amazing.
So they basically just cut this long strip, like a long swimming lane?
They already mapped it out.
Okay, so 25.
You might be able to find pictures of it though.
Yeah, I'm sure.
If there are a lot of people have done it before.
Yeah, I'm sure.
I want to actually see if I've got it.
What's it called?
Siberian swimming ice swimming?
They do it in more places, more places than that.
Let me just see while I can see anything and kind of get the idea there a little bit.
I know it's not very useful to podcast listeners showing pictures of it.
Oh, okay.
They even put the lane separator.
There you go.
Okay, there we go.
Yeah, that's me, I think.
Is it really?
Yeah.
Can you full screen that?
I think it might be.
Everyone looks the same.
Watch that video right there.
There's a video to your left.
Oh, shit.
See a lot of this is people just doing that.
They're in and out and they jump in and jump out and have a bit of fun.
No, no, no.
To the left of that.
Right there.
Swimming with her beanie on.
Yeah.
So a lot of people you'll see swim with their head up.
They don't put their head under because that's where you lose most of your.
Right.
Right.
Most of your heat.
Oh, there's some crazy nuts.
Little kids.
What kind of a psychopath you got to be to put your kid in that water.
Look at this guy.
Oh my gosh.
So.
They're all types.
So when you do.
Like for example, when you do like plunges in the cold, when you're not swimming, do
you go all the way under or do you just go like up to your neck?
No, I go all the way under.
So when I'm doing the ice tabs, it's up to the neck, but then I always go under completely
under as well.
But when you're swimming, it's face down freestyle.
Straight from the beginning.
Right.
So you have no.
Obviously when you're swimming.
Yeah.
That looks torturous.
So yeah.
So Siberia was, I mean, the early days.
So the swimming thing, this ice swimming thing is caught on a lot.
And we also learned a lot from our Russian friends as well.
Obviously.
Really.
Far more used to this environment.
But the distance that we did that day, the kilometer was way, way more than most would
ever consider doing.
And that's what, that's what kind of put us a little bit on the map and taught us a lot
of about what we were able to bear.
And that's where we, that was kind of the benchmark to take it a little bit further.
How do you, is there a process when you were in Siberia doing that, when you get out, when
you're done?
What is like, well, there has to be like an immediate protocol once you get out to like
make sure you don't fucking die.
So you're pretty useless when you get out to your brittle.
Okay.
You absolutely brittle.
Let me tell you just quickly.
So what they do, they cut that lake out of 25 meters swimming pool out of the lake.
And then they put wooden boards on each side.
Okay.
So when you turn around, you've got to do laps.
You've got something to kick with your feet.
You're not allowed to do a tumble turn because when you do a tumble turn, you get quite disoriented
because of the cold and your ears go off funny.
So you're off balance.
And sometimes you kick off skewed and you end up underneath that, that ice sheet.
And that's just not good.
It's horrible.
It's dark and scary under there.
So you're not allowed to tumble to and you have to touch the side and then swim.
Even on just changing directions, touching the wood above the water, your hands stick
immediately in that minus 33, just like that little, little feeling.
So you end up then touching underneath the water.
So the protocol is obviously there's a support team really there.
There's medics and everything.
And they literally help you out the water gently because you absolutely brittle.
It feels like everything's going to just crack off and fall off.
They got me out and I had walked down, I mean being South African, I was totally unprepared.
I came in in flip flops or so.
I walked to the pool in flip flops and I took the flip flops off when it came time to dive
in and do my, my kilometer.
By the time I finished, I got out 15 minutes later and they then sturdy me and they want
me to put my flip flops back on and then walk me to the sauna where they're going to recover
me.
But they put my flip flops on, but they had absolutely that frozen frigid into the, into
the ice.
They were stuck in the ice already.
So I had to walk bare feet to, which was probably about 70 meters away where this little sauna
was.
And then very strange technique of warming you up because these big Russian ladies, firstly
before you go into the sauna, so before you're in the warm part, they sit you outside and
they take the snow, they give you a proper snow rub.
And I think the snow there is so dry.
It's warmer.
That it's, yeah.
And it's, it also absorbs water.
So they get all the water off you very quickly.
But just the walk, I already, all my eyebrows and my head gone solid into ice.
I mean, it's that cold.
It's got to be so much, it's got to be so similar to when you're, when you're free
diving and you go super deep and, or when you're scuba diving and you're super deep
breathing that oxygen, you shoot to the top, you get the bends and it'll kill you.
Like going from that super cold to the sauna, that will fucking kill you.
You got to do it very slowly.
And the other truth about the recovery process is that the places that hurt the most are
your fingernails and toenails and, and one other piece of anatomy that really takes some
proper strain.
Your peepee.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So if you take a, if you put your hand on a, on a cement table and you take a hammer and
you whack every single fingernail, that's the level of pain.
It is absolutely brutal.
And that is probably because the, the little, the tiniest capillaries under your fingernails
actually burst as the water, the blood freezes in them and they, they kind of expand.
And then later when you're warming up, that blood tries to get back in, but now it's all
broken and messed up.
And it's just excruciating.
You saw in the nerves don't like that at all.
So they start by, first the snow rub, then you move into the super warm environment where
they start pouring usually just room temperature water over you, normal room, not, not Siberia
room.
Right.
And, and then they slowly increase that the water temperature.
And I can tell you the ladies doing it, but all you, you want your hands and your feet
done.
And all you want to ask them is, please just put it down there.
It's so sore.
That is crazy, man.
Did you guys go out and just drink gallons of vodka afterwards?
How did you know?
You're in Russia.
Yeah.
Totally.
In fact, that, you know, it's, it's quite interesting.
I won't tell the whole story, but we went out huge that night and right through the night
and then very nearly missed our flights.
My one friend tackled another guy into a pile of snow and just beneath the snow was a bunch
of concrete or a pavement and he cut his whole face open and it was messy.
Wow.
And so where did you fly?
You flew directly into Siberia.
Did you just go through Moscow or?
Yeah.
I think Moscow and then, and then two men, and two men's quite a town now.
I thought it was going to be like, you know, I always imagined that part of the world was
like barren wasteland.
It's, I think there's oil money there.
So, you know, it runs big expensive cars and it's very expensive, but it's kind of like
a.
Polygarchs running around there.
Yeah.
I think so.
Yeah.
Anyway, I mean, very hospitable people at a good time.
And that anyway, that, that Siberia experience, it kind of opened my eyes to a whole lot
of other stuff.
So then, you know, that set me off on another kind of segment of my journey to, to push the
boundaries.
And did you do the trip around South America after that?
No, South America was before that.
So, so that was us just getting cold and cold water.
What we realized that there's nobody had ever swam around the southernmost tip of South
America.
There's a little island called Cape Horn, and it's known as a sailor's graveyard for
good reasons.
And if you're into sailing, generally your Everest is to sail around there.
So we thought it'd be a good idea to see if we could be the first guys in the world to
swim around there.
Well, that's why they created the Panama Canal, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just properly dangerous.
So, and we eventually managed to find an old sea dog who was prepared to take us down
and throw enough dollars at him.
And he couldn't speak a word of English.
I'll never forget that, which we thought was a big hindrance in the beginning because
you couldn't communicate with the guy.
And we had like a one day, a 24 hour period of weather.
And we had a long, I think it's something like a 28 hour boat trip to get down there
over really dangerous waters.
And I don't think he quite understood that if he got us to Cape Horn alive, we were then
going to take our clothes off and jump off his boat into the water.
But anyway, we did it and we became the first in the world to actually swim around there.
And that's a Guinness gave us a recognition for that as well, which was the first Guinness
record that I got.
And yeah, that that was probably one of the most amazing experiences.
We went to South America to do three swims, firstly to try and swim across the Magellan
Strait, Magellan Strait, which is very cold and quite a bit further.
And then we wanted to swim the Beagle Channel, which is from Chile to Argentina.
And we decided we want to do a double.
So we want to swim there and back.
That's very cold.
Lots of whirlpools.
And let me tell you, I've never experienced that again before or after.
And that is it's phosphoing water and it kind of, I don't know, just wrap somewhere.
So you get these massive whirlpools that make a loud sucking sound.
And if you get sucked into that as a swimmer, it's obviously not good.
So we sucked into one?
I didn't, but no, but we were very close to it.
What creates them?
It's just the phosphoing water.
And I think because tides change because it's tidal.
So at some stage, water is trying to get in and out.
And I think I'm not, I don't know, I hope there's no scientists listening to this.
But that's how I figure it out.
But they're quite daunting.
I never forget stopping in the middle of that Beagle Channel, it's eight degree Celsius
water, which is about 50 Fahrenheit.
So you're cold and you're dangerous and you're in danger and you've got to keep moving.
And then I just remember stopping because there was no support boat alongside.
It was all alone out there with another swimmer friend alongside.
And we just heard this and you realize you can't see it because your your
eye line is kind of the same, same height, but you know, it's close.
And you don't know which way to swim.
And you just, your mind starts playing tricks.
You start feeling yourself getting sucked into.
Anyway, we just like changed trajectory and swam as a nice little adrenaline
burst to get us across.
How far away from shore do you stay?
Do you stay pretty close to the shoreline when you swim around the horn?
Around horn, we, yeah, we hugged the coast, but we couldn't hug it too close
because you get bashed on the rocks.
And also we had a bit of a strategic fail there, all the homework we did, which
there's very little research in that area on which way the currents go and when.
So we had done the research with the Chilean Navy as to which way we
should swim from where and to where.
And when we jumped in, we all swam for the first five odd minutes without
moving anywhere.
So we were completely in a current in the wrong way.
So the only way to get out is to take the risk and swim really close to shore.
So risk the break is the risk getting, getting bashed on the rocks, but often
the current doesn't run right along the shore.
So that we had to do.
Wow.
Yeah.
So look, you make, you got to make split decisions and there's something that
I've really learned through this process and pushing these boundaries and
doing these world firsts is that firstly, you can't follow the rules.
Okay.
You cannot take no for an answer.
There's a very good reason no one's done it before.
So if you really want to do it, do the homework, get it, get it, uh, do the
research, put the safety stuff in place and, um, and then figure it out.
And one of the guys in our group was really good at not taking no for an
answer.
I'm, I'm kind of, I'm kind of the guy that went, I'm presented with a whole
bunch of facts as to why I'll probably die.
Yeah.
I'm like, okay, you know, you're the local.
How far is it?
I wonder from the horn of South America to Antarctica, do you know?
Well, I don't, yes, I'm swimmable because I've done it on a boat.
So I, the biggest challenge in the cold that I set for myself and with, with
guys who I joined the guys who were doing it was to try and be the first in
the world to swim an official ice mile, uh, in Antarctica.
So I have gone, once I'd done the swim in at the Cape Horn, we went back
again and then took a ship cruise liner to Antarctica.
So I've done that to, you go across the Drake passage.
It's one of the most volatile bodies of water.
It's really, really tough.
Drake passage.
Drake passage.
Yeah.
It's really tough.
It's really.
Those are some of the most unexplored parts of the ocean.
They are.
Yeah.
And quite interestingly, although, I mean, I wasn't part of it.
So it's not really my story to tell, but I was part of a rowing crew that was
going to be the first in the world to row from Cape Horn, or basically South
America to Antarctica.
Wow.
And then unfortunately I had to pull out just because of financial reasons.
You had to, and the club in was, was quite hectic.
Um, and it's such a pity because eventually discovery came on and financed the
whole thing costing the guys.
The guy took my place, got a salary for doing it.
So it's quite bitter, but good for him for sticking it out.
But anyway, so you can, it's been rowed once.
Um, and I was meant to be part of the team, but I wasn't.
So it's a, it's a chink in my armor, but I'm not really a row.
I've never rode anywhere.
Anywhere, anywhere at any time.
So it was going to be a new experience, but we went to Antarctica to try and be
the first to swim a mile south of the Antarctic circle.
And that's one of the most fascinating stories or experiences of my life.
Um, we didn't get the geographic goal just because we don't have our own ship.
So we had to be paying passengers on an ocean liner and, uh, this thing
just keeps moving and they don't change the schedule for anybody.
Right.
They literally go up the coast of, uh, or down the coast of Antarctica.
And, uh, they go in south of the circle and then 48 hours later,
they turn around and come back.
So the weather isn't good in those 48 hours.
If it's unswimmable, which, um, uh, you, you get to miss that goal now.
I, before I went, I knew Antarctica from what I've seen on Nat Geo and, and
discovery channels and beautiful flat water with a whale frolicking in the
distance and some, you know, some, you know, ice over there in blue skies.
That's not what we experienced.
It was just brutal and wild and, and hectic and, uh, very, very, very daunting.
Um, and even though we missed the geographic goal, we still made the
mile attempt after seven days of being on standby.
Um, we, we got them to give us a go.
And, uh, the water that I did it in was minus one degree Celsius.
So that is, um, man, I wish I could remember my conversions
better. That's 30 degrees Fahrenheit, 30.
So, so saltwater freezes below 32, 32 is when water freezes swimming through ice.
So yeah, but it's saltwater.
So it actually doesn't still liquid, but there's plenty of ice floating
at it and icebergs and, um, and then you get the added little bonus of
something called a leopard seal.
Then if you know what that is, that is just an insane beast.
Um, and when you get to Antarctica, they're absolutely prolific.
So they're all over the place and they're, they're huge, like dinosaur looking
things. Do they, do they mess with you?
They, yes or no.
So they've been responsible for a couple of deaths, but they're not, they're
kind of like your great white choc sonora.
You know, he's not a man eater, but he wants to see what you are.
And he kills you by mistake and sorry, didn't mean to.
These guys, I think are really inquisitive.
So sometimes the people who have died at their hands or mouths has been,
they've been inquisitive and pulled them under the water and not let them
back up as they want to play or whatever they're doing.
I don't think they malicious, but they're deadly.
Absolutely.
What about polar bears?
Uh, that's, that's, you don't find that in Antarctica.
They're in the North.
Oh yeah.
So they're, they're penguins and.
Idiot, like me doesn't know that.
I didn't know that until I got there.
Well, listen, when, you know, the crew of the ship were meant to help us and
they expected us to, to arrive with some cage apparatus to swim in for the
leopard.
Oh really?
And I don't even know leopard seals existed until I got there.
That's how bad I was.
I don't feel bad about the polar bears.
A cage apparatus to protect you from a lot of people swim in cages.
So the false base swim that I did in, in South Africa, which is the great white
feeding ground, um, I, there's a few people who have attempted it in a cage
because you, you, you shocks attack from the bottom.
So you've got kind of this U shape cage.
And if you can picture it with an outboard engine on that, that, uh,
that you swim inside and it drags it behind the boat or something.
Uh, it's got, it's actually got a own transom and a, and, uh, I mean,
there are lots of different makeups, but picture almost like two canoes and
a transom between them at the back and underneath each canoe, there's,
there's sort of a cage that goes down and then a flat cage and coming up at
the other canoe.
No way.
So you swim between the two canoes, but below you there's metal bars.
That's insane.
I had no idea that was a thing.
I've, I've never, I've never done that.
I did do a swim with, with a guy once, um, and he was in the cage, but
there's no room for me.
So I was on the outside.
I thought there was a room for me.
Sorry, bud.
We don't have enough room for you.
Wow.
But I've got no experience with that.
And, and in fact, I haven't heard of anyone swimming with, with a cage for,
for many years, but some of the crew kind of couldn't believe a,
we were going to swim in that water without wetsuits and be that we were
going to swim in that water with the leopard seals.
And, and true to form, obviously, when we did eventually get to make our,
our tempt, and this, by the way, is a very long extended story,
which I'm cutting very short.
The, um, a leopard seal did come along to, to try and have a look at us.
And they went with a Zodiac and they circled around it.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Got some great video footage of that.
And eventually luckily it decided to go the other route.
Um, so what's next for you?
What do you, uh, do you have any sort of like big goals on the horizon
that you want to do next?
Like, I don't understand.
I don't even know what could possibly Trump swimming around the
horn of South America or swimming in Siberia.
Well, yeah.
I mean, I know we can't go on forever, but one of my best stories was trying
to swim from Russia to the USA solo.
Oh, too.
You mean from like, uh, to Alaska?
Let me, let me, can I tell you the story?
Oh, for sure.
Yeah.
Oh, we got, we got plenty of time.
All right.
Let me.
Um, so the, obviously you've got Russia and Alaska about 180 kilometers
across between the two of them of Bering Sea.
Okay.
Um, I was invited to be part of a relay attempt, a Russian relay attempt
that was looking to swim from Russia world first across to America.
Okay.
And it was a big international thing, mostly Russians, but then they had a
international component of, of which I was one.
And it was, it was meant to take us three or four days in a relay.
It took us about 13 days.
Eventually I turned 40 years old twice, by the way.
Because smack in the middle of that sea is the international date line.
So it's, it's where kind of everything meets.
So, you know, on one side is, is, uh, 24 hours away or 23 hours away from the other side.
So, and, um, I happened to have my 40, we had just crossed that line and we were in
American waters and, uh, I turned 40 and the weather turned so bad and we had to
anchor and because we couldn't move anymore, we ran out of permissions to be
in American water, being a Russian vessel.
So they then had to go back into Russia, which put me back into yesterday.
So I turned 39.
Back a date.
And then we, we crossed over the date line again, I turned 40 again all the
time caught up.
So that's quite a, I mean, that's just a sideline.
Um, that was a fascinating story.
However, while I was on that relay trip, which was successful in the end, um, and
a complete adventure, and I spotted two little islands called the
Diomedi Islands.
Okay.
Smack in the middle of this bearing sea.
So they're two little clumps of rock, really.
One is called Ratman over, which is big Diomedi and that's in Russian waters and
3.8 kilometers across, which is about two miles.
There's another little island called Little Diomedi and that's American water.
So I figured if I can swim between those two islands, um, I will be the first
male to have ever swum from Russia to America solo.
Now it's been done by a lady called Lynn Cox, who I've met and were a great
swimmer.
She's an American woman and lives in San Diego.
I think, well, that's where I met her and she did it in 1980s.
No one's ever done it or tried it since.
I really, really wanted to try and do that.
So living in Cape Town is quite hard, but eventually I flew with a group of guys
who had different goals.
They wanted to do it in wetsuits and they didn't want to get cold.
They just wanted to do quite cool swimming from Russia to the USA and across
the dateline.
Oh, and yeah, just so that one island is 23 hours time difference to the other,
but they're only two miles apart.
Right.
So it's quite a weird swimming from one side to the other.
And it's very bizarre in your head trying to figure it out.
It's either going to take you the longest swim of your life or it's going to be
the quickest.
Right.
Um, so anyway, where was it?
Oh, so I had to fly from Cape Town to Johannesburg, Johannesburg to London.
London to New York, New York to Anchorage, Anchorage to Nome, Nome to Prince of Wales.
And then I had to get on a little boat and catch a ride out to the island.
Um, to, to start the swim.
So it's, you just have no idea.
And what had happened in all the preparation that we had done to get there,
it happened to coincide with the first time that Russia decided to invade
Ukraine or say the first time, maybe there's a time before, but the last time.
So not this current time that we're happening now.
So the, when was it?
What year?
Uh, it must have been 2014.
Yeah.
2014, 2014.
Was that when they took over Crimea?
I think so.
Yeah.
I don't know too much about the politics.
All I know is that it was hypersensitive.
And the Russian island is a military base, kind of a first line of defense from the
American side.
Right.
So we couldn't get permission to enter Russian waters, no matter how
wild we tried, uh, because you, you're going through unorthodox ways.
You're going to buy a boat.
You're going to swim into Russia.
Actually, I just don't understand that it's just too, uh, too crazy.
So they said, there's also a whole colony of walrus that live there.
That, that are quite dangerous and new, you know, adds to the hecticness.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Okay.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Walrus.
Um, and yeah.
So eventually we, we, the, the American expedition company that took us because
we couldn't get permissions, refused to go across that dateline and into Russian
waters.
So it only escorted us the first mile from America to that line, then
they wouldn't go any further.
So we lost our support crew, most of it.
There was only one or two boats, but when you in a place that remote and you
can throw enough cash at anybody to kind of, you know, someone's going to figure
it out for you.
So, so first, sorry, just backtracking.
We didn't get permission to enter Russian waters.
So generally what normal people would do is then to say, well, you know, it
didn't work.
Sorry, we can't get permission.
I decided I want to go anyway, because I know that when you get into these
really remote places, they often have laws of their own and, uh, money talks.
So you throw a bit of money at the problem and, uh, you find a way to get
yourself across and then we did and we got out there, but no one gave any
support whatsoever.
The locals were just saying, uh, you'll get shot out the water.
Don't, don't do it.
Yeah.
And it's really messed with my mind, really messed with my mind.
So remember I'm there.
I'm there with a really good bunch of mates that are doing a swim, but they
aren't completely different missions.
They've got no threat from the cold was then in, in, in proper wetsuits and
protection.
I'm going to try and do this from solo in a, in a, in a speeder.
Okay.
So I'm going to be pushing myself to the brink of death, and then I need
someone to take over when I've achieved my goal and get me to recover and
bring me back to life.
So it is quite a hectic mindset.
It's one when you're doing it with a bunch of mates who are doing the same
thing with you, but when, um, when they're not, um, you feel very alone.
The next thing that went on is that when I went past those islands on the relay
attempt, we measured the water at six degrees Celsius, which is flippin cold.
What's that?
Uh, and anyway, I've worked it out.
Six degrees would be about 45, 48 Fahrenheit.
Um, yeah, 43 Fahrenheit.
Okay.
Um, and I reckon I could do the, the two mile distance in that just over two
miles, 2.2 miles.
Um, when we got there to do the solo, it was 3.2 degrees Celsius, which is closer
to 32, 33 Fahrenheit.
So it's really cold, makes a massive difference.
So it's half the time before you dead, basically.
It's not just three degrees colder.
Um, plus we lost the support crew.
So we, we lost about three boats.
And now we've got five guys swimming, all of the, uh, six guys swimming, five
in wetsuits and one in a speedo, having to share a boat.
I have to get myself in a very meditative state.
So I separate myself from the herd.
They all jokes and banter and, and they're talking about what the plans are.
I just had to get in the zone to, to focus on the cold.
And we eventually got a guy who's prepared to take us into the Russian
water and drop us at the island.
And I made a call.
I'm not going to climb out on the island because immediately you can see the,
the Russian military react.
Really?
Yeah.
You can see them.
They were watching.
There was nothing else to do out there.
So they're watching like what the hell's going on here.
And they're pretty good.
I imagine they're probably fucking half in the bag.
Yeah.
Vodka.
What else is it to do with it?
Um, so yeah.
So anyway, I lost a little bit of nerve and decided I'm still going to do the
swim, but I'm not going to access the Russian island, which means I can't claim
the record because you have to exit land and exit land on each side to say
you've done the swim.
So I decided to take me to opposite the island, drop me in the water and I'll
swim healthy leather back to America, um, which is what I did.
But I need a support boat alongside me because it's three degree water, three.
It went to, there were patches of six.
So it was between three and six Celsius.
Um, and because we had lost some of the support crew, we were all sharing a boat.
And when we reached that date line geographically, obviously there's no line.
You kind of swimming one stroke, you, this side of the line, the next stroke,
you that the guys will stop for a photo shoot and I can't stop.
So, and it just went.
So they all said, no, no, just swim on, swim on.
So I kept swimming by myself, completely exposed out in the middle, knowing
that I'm dying body wise, they are war us in the area.
There are currents that are sweeping me out.
And, uh, I swam the 3.8, uh, the two mile distance and the support
bank came alongside me and I realized I got much ejectory horribly wrong.
So I wasn't swimming to America.
Yeah, I had to swim at an angle to compensate for the currents running
between the islands.
Um, and yeah, that I'd got a little bit wrong.
I'd got a bit too hectic because I'd never boat beside me and you
can't really see where you're going.
Bottom line is I didn't make it.
I got pulled out.
Really?
I did the distance.
I swam from Russia to America.
Um, but I did not start on the, on the Russian islands.
So I called claim the record long story for that, but it's quite hard to
picture all, but if I had the visuals, it makes a lot more sense.
I'm sure that was an adventure.
Amazing.
I mean, I don't think anyone would, uh, fault you for not touching
on land in Russia and fear of getting shot.
I mean, that's, well, that, yeah, no, listen, I still did it.
I still did it.
And the other thing in my head, just the last hurdle was that I didn't
personally believe I get shot, although that's what I was told by the
people who should know.
Um, but even if they didn't shoot and they just pulled me out and
arrested me, because we know in legally in Russian waters, I need proper
medical support to, to recover and they're not going to know that.
So they're going to take me and maybe try and process.
I'm really trying to tell them in English, dude.
I'm going to speed up.
Presented a guy in a speedo.
And he can't talk English or Russian.
What's worse arresting a guy in a speedo or shooting a guy in a speedo?
But yeah, all these things were playing in my mind and I let it get
the better of me.
Um, in retrospect, I should have just gone and climbed out on that
rationale and swam across and I don't think I would have had a problem.
They probably would have clapped and applauded because they're so bored,
but it was a different political time.
So, right.
So what's next?
Do you have plans for another crazy expedition?
Yes, but it will not be extreme cold.
It will be cold water.
Um, and it's going to take a long time because right now after COVID, uh, you
know, I've got a, I've got a different challenge on my hands.
So being a public speaker, you can imagine how many events were happening for
the last two years.
It took quite a curve.
So, and things have picked up amazingly, but I just need to ride that storm.
And, uh, but so here's, I've mentioned false bear a few times through this chat.
False bears 34 kilometers across.
It is the great white feeding ground.
So psychologically it's difficult, but there are more things that sting you in
that, that are going to bite you and the distance is quite extreme and the
current so unpredictable, but it's not, it's not a channel.
It's a bay.
So currency don't always know what's going to, what's going to happen.
I took that on and I got a Guinness world record for completing it.
And, you know, it was, it was a wonderful accolade and I was very proud of myself.
However, if I'm deadly honest, that was within my comfort zone, I set goals
that I don't think I can achieve, not goals that I know I can achieve.
Cause if you're setting, even though it might look extremely hard to most, if
you're setting a goal that you kind of know, if you do A, B and C, you're going
to achieve it, that's comfort zone stuff in my frame of reference.
Okay.
So try set goals that you actually don't think you find that will be really
hard for you and then take it up a level.
Uncharted territory.
Uncharted turf.
So I knew I'd make false bay.
What I don't know is whether I can make it back.
So turn around and swim back.
So call it a 70 kilometer swim, which I've never done in close to, I know
it's humanly possible whether I can do it.
I don't know.
It means I'll swim for probably around 24 to 28 hours.
And that means I'll swim overnight and protect it in the dark in false bay with,
with the psychology of that just scares the living daylights out of me, to be honest,
being an extremely cold, tired, frustrated, salt chafed, dehydrated swimmer.
And then it gets dark and I have to try to keep my wits about me for another
probably 10 to 12 hours.
So you will swim through the night.
I'd swim through the night.
Yeah.
Solid.
That's the plan.
So not, you know, that's, that's the goal.
Um, which is going to take a few years.
I need to find a, a nice sponsor who can give me the financial piece of mine.
So you need to find a film crew.
Yeah.
Oh, it's, it's going to make fascinating footage.
I thought of that.
Actually, there's been a little bit of interest, but I'm not, although I'm talking
about it on a pub cost, that's just part of my process to get my head right.
I am disclaiming it by saying, oh, there's a lot of stars that need to align
before I even start the training for that.
So it's a long way down the line, but it is, you asked what my goal is and that is my goal.
That's an incredible goal.
A lot of people do that.
A lot of people will like make a goal public.
So it like holds them accountable for it.
So what's up with your book?
What's the name of your book?
It's called push past impossible.
Hold it up next to your face right here.
So the camera can see it right here.
There you go guys.
Push past impossible.
Push past impossible.
And you just, you just now got it released recently, right?
Just released.
It's been out for a month.
Um, all of a sudden arrived on my doorstep.
So this is a product of, of hard lockdown and COVID.
When I was finally given enough time to do it, you'll find it on Amazon.
It's on, on, on Kindle and everywhere as well.
So it's, um, it's not audio yet, but yeah, a lot of my mates who don't like reading
want me to do the audio.
So that's me, I can't really understand that, but it's, uh, it's been out a month
and I'm, you know, it's a very vulnerable process to be honest.
Writing a book up, I wasn't sure I wanted to do it.
And then you have all those self-doubts and we'll never read it.
And is it going to be interesting and will the, the messaging come across
because I include quite a lot about, you know, the, the, the mind of that and how
you relate that to daily life.
And, you know, some of the stories we've shared today, there's a lot more in this,
in this book.
Um, and it shows the whole progression from me as a, you know, as a good old
couch potato at the age of, of, uh, you know, 28, 30.
And now a three-time Guinness world record holder doing crazy stuff and
traveling the world as an inspirational speaker and doing wonderful
podcasts with you on concrete.
So, um, how taking a little step in your life and just taking a change and
make, taking a little bit of a risk every now and then how that can change
your direction and, uh, really just, uh, you know, revolutionize your life,
which it has for me and this book, uh, takes you through that.
It's really incredible what you're doing, man.
And, uh, I love the parallels and what it does to basically explore the human
mind and, you know, the powers of the human brain and what it can do and
understanding what it was designed to do and keep you away from, as opposed to,
you know, having, being able to have the motivation and the desire and the
just will to do impossible things.
And that's the biggest thing I think I took away from, you know, listening to
you was like trying to discover, you know, understanding at least that your
brain is trying to hold you back because of evolution.
So you have to learn how to push past that.
A hundred percent.
Yeah.
And I hope I'm glad you took that out of it because, you know,
obviously when I do the keynotes in the corporate, it's far more succinct and,
and, and, and nicely laid out, but you've nailed it.
So that's exactly it.
You know, and my swimming journey has taught me that, uh, by myself and I'm a
complete, that's, I think that's where I started.
I'm a complete average Joe.
There's nothing special about me.
I've no clever ability to self-heat my center core and survive some of the
situations better than anyone else.
It's just a matter of understanding.
It's a matter of being aware of what's happening in your head.
As you've just put it.
And then one of the hardest parts, believe it or not, is actually
believing it's relevant to you because we, as humans, we always think, oh,
well, that's relevant to someone else, not me.
I've got my shit together and I know when I'm taking a risk.
I know when my mind's steering me away from comfort, I've got this, but
when you believe that you actually not, okay, only then can you be brave enough
to try take a step right out of that.
So it's kind of a three tier process that I teach, be aware of it first and
that we do through wonderful stories and then believe and then be brave enough to
try.
That's beautiful, man.
Do you have a website or anything where people can find out and find
where your work or your tops.
So what website is Ryan Stramrood.
I'm going to hold this up so you can see the spelling.
Everyone spells it out.
There it is.
Oh, there it is.
RyanStramrood.com.
Um, but where I'm most active is on Instagram.
So, and that's Ryan underscore Stramrood.
S-T-R-A-M-R-O-O-D.
I will link it below.
Thanks again for your time, man.
I really appreciate this.
Uh, what you're doing is fucking fascinating.
And I love it.
And I hope, uh, I hope more people can find out about what you're doing and
find your, your talks and your book and, and all that good stuff.
Yeah, fantastic.
Thanks for your interest and thanks to your listeners and viewers and everybody.
I really appreciate it.
Interact.
Love to hear from you.
