In Plato's accounts of Atlantis, his two dialogues, Timaeus and Cretias, where he talks about
Atlantis, he dates it, his 9,000 years prior to Solon's exile in Egypt, which took place
roughly at 600, 500 to 600 BC.
So that puts it at, say, 25 to 2600 years ago, add that to 9,000 years, and what do
you get, 11,500, for the destruction of Atlantis by a great earthquake that caused it to sink
beneath the Atlantic Ocean?
Coincidence?
Wow.
Yeah.
No, I think that Plato was, see, this is where, you know, modern academia just dismisses
the whole Atlantis account as well.
Right, right.
You think of Atlantis, you think of some fictional woo-woo tale, and both only in books.
Right.
But if you go back to the source, I mean, the source is Plato.
The greatest metaphysician of, you know, Western civilization.
The big question is, was it a moral tale, or was it a physical place, was it a real
city?
I think it could be both.
Why would not an ancient commentator utilize an actual historic event upon which to graft
a moral teaching?
Doesn't Plato recount in his writings that it, doesn't he say more than once that it
was an actual real place?
Oh yeah, multiple times.
Yeah, he, he affirms the veracity of the account.
So this, this may have the appearance of myth, but it's real.
It really happened.
He says that.
Yeah.
So, um, so which brings us to the recent video of the guy who was just on Joe Rogan's podcast
who talks.
Jimmy.
Jimmy.
Yeah.
What's the name of his channel again?
Bright Insight.
Bright Insight.
Yeah.
So this is Joe Rogan about the Eye of Africa.
Right.
Being the location of Atlantis.
Can you, do you have that little video clip that I showed you earlier, Austin?
Where he talks about, he shows the map, Plato's map of Atlantis and where it could be and
why he lays out all of his reasoning on why that could be the location.
I didn't know Plato had a map, so I'm not.
I could be wrong.
Maybe it wasn't Plato's map.
This is.
Let's watch this quick clip real quick.
Okay.
Let me.
They described an empire named Atlantis, which consisted of 10 kingdoms and the capital
of Atlantis was on an island that consisted of three rings of water and two of land, which
of course, when we look at the Rishad structure, you see that it would precisely match that
specific detail of three rings of water and two of land.
And not only that, it was said to open to the sea at the south, which is exactly what
you see here at the Rishad.
In fact, you can literally see the striations in the sand where water once flowed through
it, but not only that, those white blemishes are indeed salt.
An unbelievably significant detail, which I'll discuss more of in a moment, but Atlantis
was also said to have mountains to the north, mountains that were said to have rivers run
through them, which yes, there are mountains with evidence of ancient water flow north
of the Rishad.
But Atlantis was also said to be surrounded by a large plain, which also exists for hundreds
of miles on both sides of the Rishad structure.
Another striking similarity is that Atlantis was said to consist of black, red, and white
colored stone, which is incredibly interesting when you see all the stones of that color
in and around the region of the Rishad.
There was also said to be an abundance of elephants, and elephants live in Mauritania
today and have for thousands of years.
In fact, there's an even ancient cave art depicting elephants not far from the Rishad.
And Atlantis was also said to have an abundance of exotic fruit and vegetables, which makes
the case for it being in North Africa even more compelling, considering that we now know
that the Sahara Desert didn't even exist until somewhere around 11,600 years ago, where
it went from green to desert in practically an instant.
But many people are not aware of this incredible fact that the Sahara had previously been a
lush green tropical paradise at the same time that Atlantis was said to exist.
In fact, it was said to be made up of the largest freshwater lakes and rivers ever known
to exist anywhere on earth, which of course would support that the region of the western
Sahara would have naturally growing fruits and vegetables, but alleged vegetation that
no longer exists in this region aside.
Atlantis was said to have an abundance of metals, including iron, copper, and gold.
Well, it turns out that Mauritania's most common exports today include iron, copper,
and gold.
But the similarities do not end here.
You see, Atlantis was said to be created by the god Poseidon, and Poseidon had ten children
that came from five sets of male twins.
And each of these ten children would individually be ruler of the ten kingdoms that made up
the Empire of Atlantis, and the first born would rule the capital, and his name was Atlas.
So does anyone want to guess who the name of the first king of Mauritania was?
King Atlas, who ruled over the Moray people, which is why the land is called Mauritania
today.
And not only that, the vast mountain region located north of the Rishat just so happens
to be named the Atlas Mountains.
What a coincidence.
Now another incredible detail involves this map.
This is the map I was referring to.
Our house is considered by many to be the father of history due to his extensive historical
documentation.
In fact, we wouldn't even know about the Greco-Persian Wars if it wasn't for him.
And some 2,500 years ago, he made a written detailed account of the known world at that
time.
However, he himself did not draw out this map.
Others, and I do not know who or when, read through his various works and annotated that
the people of Atlantis lived in this region you see here, which just so happens to be
the same general location of the Rishat structure.
What are the odds?
All right, you can stop it there, Austin.
Okay, so he lays out a very compelling, he sells it.
He sells it.
Yeah, and generally, you know, I like his stuff.
He does a great job.
We would disagree on this.
For...
Let's go.
Well, listen, I have done an entire treatment of this.
Episode 9 of Cosmographia.
Right, which was very compelling.
And that follows upon, what, six or seven episodes, about 10 to 12 hours going into the Atlantis
account of Plato.
The background.
You know, all the stuff he's talking about there, and it's good stuff, man, yeah.
But I have some issues with it, and I get into that, why I believe it's not there.
I've listened to a bit of it, and there's a lot to unpack in that.
You know, I've read four or five different translations of Plato, and I've actually procured
the original Greek, so I've been able to go in and laboriously translate the various
words used.
And I mean, it's clear, you know, right at the outset, you know, this power came forth
from the Atlantic Ocean, outside the pillars of Heracles.
Pillars of Heracles is what we call the straits of Gibraltar.
It describes that when you pass from the straits of Gibraltar into the Atlantic Ocean,
you encounter some islands, and then you encounter, would have encountered Atlantis, and then
beyond that was the Great Continent.
So in other words, when you look at the geography, and there is like the Spartale Bank, there's
a sunken island right there at the mouth, that would have actually been an island that
sailors could have stopped at, and then there's Madeira, possibly even other islands.
That's my problem, is that Plato very clearly, to me, puts it in the Atlantic Ocean, and
also very clearly describes that it sank within the ocean.
So what I have done is shown throughout hours of video that there is solid evidence for
post-glacial subsidence of particularly along the mid-Atlantic ridge.
So all the things that Jimmy is describing there, I could show essentially the same configuration
to the sunken Azores Plateau, as it's called, open to the south, mountains to the north,
and that's what I do in this series that I did because I was not really familiar with
the theory that the Eye of Africa was considered to be Atlantis when I did those.
I may have heard of it, but hadn't looked into it.
So then so many people were asking about it that I did a follow-up specifically focusing
on the Reshat structure, and I basically go into the studies.
See, I accumulated a number of studies on it in probably the early 90s when it was still
being considered an impact crater.
And so when I was thoroughly researching impact craters, that's when I first learned about
it, and it looked to me like a multi-ringed impact structure, just like we were talking
about earlier.
Right?
Well, it later, you know, ground penetrating radar and analysis of the rocks and stuff
showed that it was a deep-rooted volcanic feature.
So it's natural.
It is not human-made.
It's natural.
And I think all the geologists that have looked at that would concur that it's natural.
So the fact that it's what, 1400 feet above sea level, to me, is problematic because the
whole thing about Atlantis is that it sank beneath the waves of the Atlantic Ocean.
So yes, there's some amazing coincidences there, as Jamie points out, but again, I'm
going to come down on the side of if there's any reality to this thing.
My reading is, and see, people go, oh, well Randall says Atlantis was the Azores.
No, Randall doesn't say that.
What Randall does say, that if you look at the 15 or 20 different locations around the
world that have been proffered as being, oh, this is Atlantis or this is Atlantis, I think
the one that fits the details of Plato's accounts almost to a T is really the Azores.
And the Azores are mountain peaks, right?
And those mountain peaks have their roots on a, it's called a microcontinent.
It's about the size of Iceland, but it's sunk.
And how do we know it's sunk?
Well, there's numerous studies that I get into all of that in that 10 hours or 12 hours
that I've done to make the case that if there is a reality to Atlantis, and we look at all
of the candidates for where Atlantis was, I think the one that comes down over and over
again as being the most plausible would be the Azores.
And so, but yeah, in a few minutes here that we're discussing it here, it would be, you
know, again, like I said, I did 10 or 12 hours.
This again is the old priests talking to Solon.
He says, many great and wonderful deeds are recorded of your state in our histories, that
he's talking about this Proto-Athenian state that allied with the Egyptians to fight off
this incursion of this great Atlantean empire, right?
See, he says, many great and wonderful deeds are recorded in your state in our histories,
but one of them exceeds all the rest in greatness and valor.
For these histories tell of a mighty power which unprovoked made an expedition against
the whole of Europe and Asia, and to which your city put an end.
And here's the key passage right here.
This power came forth out of the Atlantic Ocean.
Or in those days, the Atlantic was navigable, okay?
Very clear, came forth out of the Atlantic Ocean.
Now in Plato's day, the Atlantic Ocean was no different than our Atlantic Ocean today.
Now listen to this, and there was an island situated in front of the straits, which are
by you called the Pillars of Heracles.
The island was larger than Libya and Asia put together and was the way to other islands.
And from these, you might pass to the whole of the opposite continent, which surrounds
the true ocean.
Look back up there again.
We're looking back at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, the Atlantic Ocean, up by the-
Now he's talking about sailing west from the Pillars of Heracles, and there were islands
right there in that light gray area.
So that would have been, listen, there was an island situated in the front of the straits,
which are called by you the Pillars of Heracles, and was the way to other islands, and from
these you might pass to the whole of the opposite continent.
And there it is, right over there.
It's almost as if he's saying these Egyptians knew about the presence of North America.
Right.
Yeah.
Which surrounds the true ocean, because as he says, for this sea, which is within the
straits of Heracles, which he's talking about the Mediterranean, is only a harbor, having
a narrow entrance, but that other is a real sea, and the surrounding land may be most
truly called a boundless continent.
Okay.
So here we have Straits of Gibraltar.
Okay, we're looking at the Gulf of Kadiz.
Yes.
Okay.
With the Africa on the bottom connecting to the Iberian Peninsula on top, and the Straits
of Gibraltar going right through the center.
Now roll forward one slide.
Now take a look, and you'll see the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is very prominent.
Right.
Okay.
And it's really, it's one of the weakest areas of crust on the entire planet.
Why is that?
Because it's a spreading center.
It's where crust is being born.
It's the origin of the crust.
That's a huge crack there, and molten lava issues up from the crack and then spreads laterally.
And it's this that's driving the motion of the tectonic plates, at least within the framework
of plate tectonics.
Okay.
Okay, so now listen to what the priest goes on to say.
Now in this island, island is the word of Atlantis.
There was a great and wonderful empire which had rule over the whole island and several
others and over parts of the continent.
So he's very much distinguishing between the continent and the island.
But then he's saying, had rule over the whole island and several others.
So it was not limited to a single island, but then and over parts of the continent.
And furthermore, the men of Atlantis had subjected the parts of Libya within the columns of Heracles
as far as Egypt.
So if that was the case, they would have been colonizing the area of Northwestern Africa,
which is now Morocco, which is now Libya, including probably what is now Mauritania.
So if you assume that, it might have all been implausible to assume that, you know, Atlantean
explorers could have traversed the area of the Reachat structure, right?
Then this vast power gathered into one, endeavored to subdue and blow our country and yours and
the whole region within the straits, okay?
And then Salon, your country shown forth in the excellence of her virtue and strength
among all mankind, for she was first encouraged in military skill and was the leader of the
Helene's.
I'm going to jump in the sake of times.
So then they have this big war and led by the peoples within the straits of Gibraltar
around the Mediterranean, led by these proto Athenians, freely liberated all the others
who dwell within the limits of Heracles.
So he's describing a very explicit, you've got this power comes forth out of the Atlantic.
It rules over a series of islands.
There's one main island rules over the series of islands comes within to the Mediterranean,
which he describes as just a harbor compared to the real ocean.
Subdues all of these nations and then the proto Athenians managed to organize them all.
They fight off and they liberate all those others who dwell within the limits of Heracles.
And then afterwards there occurred violent earthquakes and floods and a single day night
of rain, all your warlike men in the body sank into the earth.
So in other words, he's referring now to something that's happening in the Greek peninsula, right?
And the island of Atlantis in like manner disappeared and was sunk beneath the sea.
Now to me, that is pretty explicit.
You got an island, there were earthquakes, it sank beneath the sea, right?
There's no ambiguity there.
And that part of that part of where the eye of Africa is that was never completely underwater?
No, not since probably Cretaceous times because our Cretaceous limestones right there, which
shows that it was then underwater, right?
Like 60 million, 70 million, 80 million years ago.
Now great.
Now Jimmy is absolutely right when he talks about water flowing over.
And I discussed that in my discussion of the recat structure, that there is evidence
that there was these tremendous floods flowing over and that's probably why the structure
is exposed as it is.
Because these floods would have ripped away the bedrock concealing it and exposed the
core of this ancient plume, volcanic plume.
Yeah, so, I mean, there's so much here we could get into.
Yeah, it's lengthy and it's a lot.
It's a lot.
And anybody who finds this captivating and they want to learn more about this, I highly
recommend you to episode nine of Randall's podcast.
Well, that's the one that specifically addresses the recat structure.
The recat structure.
There's many episodes that talk about this.
I think I've got five episodes leading up to that, six maybe, a couple hours each.
And I go into all the geology, the geography and oceanography, like we were doing here
a line by line analysis of Plato's account, plus a few other peripheral accounts, you
know, Herodotus and Proclus and so on.
